COMPLETE PROSE WORKS

Specimen Days and Collect, November Boughs and Good Bye My Fancy

By

WALT WHITMAN

CONTENTS

SPECIMEN DAYS

  A Happy Hour's Command
  Answer to an Insisting Friend
  Genealogy--Van Velsor and Whitman
  The Old Whitman and Van Velsor Cemeteries
  The Maternal Homestead
  Two Old Family Interiors
  Paumanok, and my Life on it as Child and Young Man
  My First Reading--Lafayette
  Printing Office--Old Brooklyn
  Growth--Health--Work
  My Passion for Ferries
  Broadway Sights
  Omnibus Jaunts and Drivers
  Plays and Operas too
  Through Eight Years
  Sources of Character--Results--1860
  Opening of the Secession War
  National Uprising and Volunteering
  Contemptuous Feeling
  Battle of Bull Run, July, 1861
  The Stupor Passes--Something Else Begins
  Down at the Front
  After First Fredericksburg
  Back to Washington
  Fifty Hours Left Wounded on the Field
  Hospital Scenes and Persons
  Patent-Office Hospital
  The White House by Moonlight
  An Army Hospital Ward
  A Connecticut Case
  Two Brooklyn Boys
  A Secesh Brave
  The Wounded from Chancellorsville
  A Night Battle over a Week Since
  Unnamed Remains the Bravest Soldier
  Some Specimen Cases
  My Preparations for Visits
  Ambulance Processions
  Bad Wounds--the Young
  The Most Inspiriting of all War's Shows
  Battle of Gettysburg
  A Cavalry Camp
  A New York Soldier
  Home-Made Music
  Abraham Lincoln
  Heated Term
  Soldiers and Talks
  Death of a Wisconsin Officer
  Hospitals Ensemble
  A Silent Night Ramble
  Spiritual Characters among the Soldiers
  Cattle Droves about Washington
  Hospital Perplexity
  Down at the Front
  Paying the Bounties
  Rumors, Changes, Etc.
  Virginia
  Summer of 1864
  A New Army Organization fit for America
  Death of a Hero
  Hospital Scenes--Incidents
  A Yankee Soldier
  Union Prisoners South
  Deserters
  A Glimpse of War's Hell-Scenes
  Gifts--Money--Discrimination
  Items from My Note Books
  A Case from Second Bull Run
  Army Surgeons--Aid Deficiencies
  The Blue Everywhere
  A Model Hospital
  Boys in the Army
  Burial of a Lady Nurse
  Female Nurses for Soldiers
  Southern Escapees
  The Capitol by Gas-Light
  The Inauguration
  Attitude of Foreign Governments During the War
  The Weather--Does it Sympathize with These Times?
  Inauguration Ball
  Scene at the Capitol
  A Yankee Antique
  Wounds and Diseases
  Death of President Lincoln
  Sherman's Army Jubilation--its Sudden Stoppage
  No Good Portrait of Lincoln
  Releas'd Union Prisoners from South
  Death of a Pennsylvania Soldier
  The Armies Returning
  The Grand Review
  Western Soldiers
  A Soldier on Lincoln
  Two Brothers, one South, one North
  Some Sad Cases Yet
  Calhoun's Real Monument
  Hospitals Closing
  Typical Soldiers
  "Convulsiveness"
  Three Years Summ'd up
  The Million Dead, too, Summ'd up
  The Real War will never get in the Books
  An Interregnum Paragraph
  New Themes Enter'd Upon
  Entering a Long Farm-Lane
  To the Spring and Brook
  An Early Summer Reveille
  Birds Migrating at Midnight
  Bumble-Bees
  Cedar-Apples
  Summer Sights and Indolences
  Sundown Perfume--Quail-Notes--the Hermit Thrush
  A July Afternoon by the Pond
  Locusts and Katy-Dids
  The Lesson of a Tree
  Autumn Side-Bits
  The Sky--Days and Nights--Happiness
  Colors--A Contrast
  November 8, '76
  Crows and Crows
  A Winter-Day on the Sea-Beach
  Sea-Shore Fancies
  In Memory of Thomas Paine
  A Two Hours' Ice-Sail
  Spring Overtures--Recreations
  One of the Human Kinks
  An Afternoon Scene
  The Gates Opening
  The Common Earth, the Soil
  Birds and Birds and Birds
  Full-Starr'd Nights
  Mulleins and Mulleins
  Distant Sounds
  A Sun-Bath--Nakedness
  The Oaks and I
  A Quintette
  The First Frost--Mems
  Three Young Men's Deaths
  February Days
  A Meadow Lark
  Sundown Lights
  Thoughts Under an Oak--A Dream
  Clover and Hay Perfume
  An Unknown
  Bird Whistling
  Horse-Mint
  Three of Us
  Death of William Cullen Bryant
  Jaunt up the Hudson
  Happiness and Raspberries
  A Specimen Tramp Family
  Manhattan from the Bay
  Human and Heroic New York
  Hours for the Soul
  Straw-Color'd and other Psyches
  A Night Remembrance
  Wild Flowers
  A Civility Too Long Neglected
  Delaware River--Days and Nights
  Scenes on Ferry and River--Last Winter's Nights
  The First Spring Day on Chestnut Street
  Up the Hudson to Ulster County
  Days at J.B.'s--Turf Fires--Spring Songs
  Meeting a Hermit
  An Ulster County Waterfall
  Walter Dumont and his Medal
  Hudson River Sights
  Two City Areas Certain Hours
  Central Park Walks and Talks
  A Fine Afternoon, 4 to 6
  Departing of the Big Steamers
  Two Hours on the Minnesota
  Mature Summer Days and Night
  Exposition Building--New City Hall--River-Trip
  Swallows on the River
  Begin a Long Jaunt West
  In the Sleeper
  Missouri State
  Lawrence and Topeka, Kansas
  The Prairies--(and an Undeliver'd Speech)
  On to Denver--A Frontier Incident
  An Hour on Kenosha Summit
  An Egotistical "Find"
  New Scenes--New Joys
  Steam-Power, Telegraphs, Etc.
  America's Back-Bone
  The Parks
  Art Features
  Denver Impressions
  I Turn South and then East Again
  Unfulfill'd Wants--the Arkansas River
  A Silent Little Follower--the Coreopsis
  The Prairies and Great Plains in Poetry
  The Spanish Peaks--Evening on the Plains
  America's Characteristic Landscape
  Earth's Most Important Stream
  Prairie Analogies--the Tree Question
  Mississippi Valley Literature
  An Interviewer's Item
  The Women of the West
  The Silent General
  President Hayes's Speeches
  St. Louis Memoranda
  Nights on the Mississippi
  Upon our Own Land
  Edgar Poe's Significance
  Beethoven's Septette
  A Hint of Wild Nature
  Loafing in the Woods
  A Contralto Voice
  Seeing Niagara to Advantage
  Jaunting to Canada
  Sunday with the Insane
  Reminiscence of Elias Hicks
  Grand Native Growth
  A Zollverein between the U. S. and Canada
  The St. Lawrence Line
  The Savage Saguenay
  Capes Eternity and Trinity
  Chicoutimi, and Ha-ha Bay
  The Inhabitants--Good Living
  Cedar-Plums Like--Names
  Death of Thomas Carlyle
  Carlyle from American Points of View
  A Couple of Old Friends--A Coleridge Bit
  A Week's Visit to Boston
  The Boston of To-Day
  My Tribute to Four Poets
  Millet's Pictures--Last Items
  Birds--and a Caution
  Samples of my Common-Place Book
  My Native Sand and Salt Once More
  Hot Weather New York
  "Ouster's Last Rally"
  Some Old Acquaintances--Memories
  A Discovery of Old Age
  A Visit, at the Last, to R. W. Emerson
  Other Concord Notations
  Boston Common--More of Emerson
  An Ossianic Night--Dearest Friends
  Only a New Ferry Boat
  Death of Longfellow
  Starting Newspapers
  The Great Unrest of which We are Part
  By Emerson's Grave
  At Present Writing--Personal
  After Trying a Certain Book
  Final Confessions--Literary Tests
  Nature and Democracy--Morality

COLLECT

ONE OR TWO INDEX ITEMS

DEMOCRATIC VISTAS

ORIGINS OF ATTEMPTED SECESSION

PREFACES TO "LEAVES OF GRASS"

  Preface, 1855, to first issue of "Leaves of Grass"
  Preface, 1872, to "As a Strong Bird on Pinions Free"
  Preface, 1876, to L. of G. and "Two Rivulets"

POETRY TO-DAY IN AMERICA--SHAKESPEARE--THE FUTURE

A MEMORANDUM AT A VENTURE

DEATH OF ABRAHAM LINCOLN

TWO LETTERS

NOTES LEFT OVER

  Nationality (and Yet)
  Emerson's Books (the Shadows of Them)
  Ventures, on an Old Theme
  British Literature
  Darwinism (then Furthermore)
  "Society"
  The Tramp and Strike Questions
  Democracy in the New World
  Foundation Stages--then Others
  General Suffrage, Elections, Etc.
  Who Gets the Plunder?
  Friendship (the Real Article)
  Lacks and Wants Yet
  Rulers Strictly Out of the Masses
  Monuments--the Past and Present
  Little or Nothing New After All
  A Lincoln Reminiscence
  Freedom
  Book-Classes-America's Literature
  Our Real Culmination
  An American Problem
  The Last Collective Compaction

PIECES IN EARLY YOUTH

  Dough Face Song
  Death in the School-Room
  One Wicked Impulse
  The Last Loyalist
  Wild Frank's Return
  The Boy Lover
  The Child and the Profligate
  Lingave's Temptation
  Little Jane
  Dumb Kate
  Talk to an Art Union
  Blood-Money
  Wounded in the House of Friends
  Sailing the Mississippi at Midnight

NOVEMBER BOUGHS

OUR EMINENT VISITORS, Past, Present and Future

THE BIBLE AS POETRY

FATHER TAYLOR (AND ORATORY)

THE SPANISH ELEMENT IN OUR NATIONALITY

WHAT LURKS BEHIND SHAKSPERE'S HISTORICAL PLAYS?

A THOUGHT ON SHAKSPERE

ROBERT BURNS AS POET AND PERSON

A WORD ABOUT TENNYSON

SLANG IN AMERICA

AN INDIAN BUREAU REMINISCENCE

SOME DIARY NOTES AT RANDOM

  Negro Slaves in New York
  Canada Nights
  Country Days and Nights
  Central Park Notes
  Plate Glass Notes

SOME WAR MEMORANDA

  Washington Street Scenes
  The 195th Pennsylvania
  Left-hand Writing by Soldiers
  Central Virginia in '64
  Paying the First Color'd Troops

FIVE THOUSAND POEMS

THE OLD BOWERY

NOTES TO LATE ENGLISH BOOKS

  Preface to Reader in British Islands
  Additional Note, 1887
  Preface to English Edition "Democratic Vistas"

ABRAHAM LINCOLN

NEW ORLEANS IN 1848

SMALL MEMORANDA

  Attorney General's Office, 1865
  A Glint Inside of Abraham Lincoln's Cabinet Appointments
  Note to a Friend
  Written Impromptu in an Album
  The Place Gratitude fills in a Fine Character

LAST OF THE WAR CASES

ELIAS HICKS, Notes (such as they are)

  George Fox and Shakspere

GOOD-BYE MY FANCY

AN OLD MAN'S REJOINDER

OLD POETS

  Ship Ahoy
  For Queen Victoria's Birthday

AMERICAN NATIONAL LITERATURE

GATHERING THE CORN

A DEATH BOUQUET

SOME LAGGARDS YET

  The Perfect Human Voice
  Shakspere for America
  "Unassailed Renown"
  Inscription for a Little Book on Giordano Bruno
  Splinters
  Health (Old Style)
  Gay-heartedness
  As in a Swoon
  L. of G.
  After the Argument
  For Us Two, Reader Dear

MEMORANDA

  A World's Show
  New York--the Bay--the Old Name
  A Sick Spell
  To be Present Only
  "Intestinal Agitation"
  "Walt Whitman's Last 'Public'"
  Ingersoll's Speech
  Feeling Fairly
  Old Brooklyn Days
  Two Questions
  Preface to a Volume
  An Engineer's Obituary
  Old Actors, Singers, Shows, Etc., in New York
  Some Personal and Old Age Jottings
  Out in the Open Again
  America's Bulk Average
  Last Saved Items

WALT WHITMAN'S LAST

SPECIMEN DAYS

A HAPPY HOUR'S COMMAND

Down in the Woods, July 2d, 1882.-If I do it at all I must delay no longer. Incongruous and
full of skips and jumps as is that huddle of diary-jottings, war-memoranda of 1862-'65, Nature-notes
of 1877-'81, with Western and Canadian observations afterwards, all bundled up and tied by
a big string, the resolution and indeed mandate comes to me this day, this hour,--(and what
a day! What an hour just passing! the luxury of riant grass and blowing breeze, with all the
shows of sun and sky and perfect temperature, never before so filling me, body and soul),--to
go home, untie the bundle, reel out diary-scraps and memoranda, just as they are, large or
small, one after another, into print-pages,[1] and let the melange's lackings and wants of
connection take care of themselves. It will illustrate one phase of humanity anyhow; how few
of life's days and hours (and they not by relative value or proportion, but by chance) are
ever noted. Probably another point, too, how we give long preparations for some object, planning
and delving and fashioning, and then, when the actual hour for doing arrives, find ourselves
still quite unprepared, and tumble the thing together, letting hurry and crudeness tell the
story better than fine work. At any rate I obey my happy hour's command, which seems curiously
imperative. May be, if I don't do anything else, I shall send out the most wayward, spontaneous,
fragmentary book ever printed.

Note:

[1] The pages from 1 to 15 are nearly verbatim an off-hand letter of mine in January, 1882,
to an insisting friend. Following, I give some gloomy experiences. The war of attempted secession
has, of course, been the distinguishing event of my time. I commenced at the close of 1862,
and continued steadily through '63, '64 and '65, to visit the sick and wounded of the army,
both on the field and in the hospitals in and around Washington city. From the first I kept
little note-books for impromptu jottings in pencil to refresh my memory of names and circumstances,
and what was specially wanted, &c. In these, I brief'd cases, persons, sights, occurrences
in camp, by the bed-side, and not seldom by the corpses of the dead. Some were scratch'd down
from narratives I heard and itemized while watching, or waiting, or tending somebody amid those
scenes. I have dozens of such little note-books left, forming a special history of those years,
for myself alone, full of associations never to be possibly said or sung. I wish I could convey
to the reader the associations that attach to these soil'd and creas'd livraisons, each composed
of a sheet or two of paper, folded small to carry in the pocket, and fasten'd with a pin. I
leave them just as I threw them by after the war, blotch'd here and there with more than one
blood-stain, hurriedly written, sometimes at the clinique, not seldom amid the excitement of
uncertainty, or defeat, or of action, or getting ready for it, or a march. Most of the pages
from 20 to 75 are verbatim copies of those lurid and blood-smuch'd little notebooks.

Very different are most of the memoranda that follow. Some time after the war ended I had a
paralytic stroke, which prostrated me for several years. In 1876 I began to get over the worst
of it. From this date, portions of several seasons, especially summers, I spent at a secluded
haunt down in Camden county, New Jersey--Timber creek, quite a little river (it enters from
the great Delaware, twelve miles away)--with primitive solitudes, winding stream, recluse and
woody banks, sweet-feeding springs, and all the charms that birds, grass, wild-flowers, rabbits
and squirrels, old oaks, walnut trees, &c., can bring. Through these times, and on these spots,
the diary from page 76 onward was mostly written.

The COLLECT afterwards gathers up the odds and ends of whatever pieces I can now lay hands
on, written at various times past, and swoops all together like fish in a net.

I suppose I publish and leave the whole gathering, first, from that eternal tendency to perpetuate
and preserve which is behind all Nature, authors included; second, to symbolize two or three
specimen interiors, personal and other, out of the myriads of my time, the middle range of
the Nineteenth century in the New World; a strange, unloosen'd, wondrous time. But the book
is probably without any definite purpose that can be told in a statement.

ANSWER TO AN INSISTING FRIEND

You ask for items, details of my early life--of genealogy and parentage, particularly of the
women of my ancestry, and of its far-back Netherlands stock on the maternal side--of the region
where I was born and raised, and my mother and father before me, and theirs before them--with
a word about Brooklyn and New York cities, the times I lived there as lad and young man. You
say you want to get at these details mainly as the go-befores and embryons of "Leaves of Grass."
Very good; you shall have at least some specimens of them all. I have often thought of the
meaning of such things--that one can only encompass and complete matters of that kind by 'exploring
behind, perhaps very far behind, themselves directly, and so into their genesis, antecedents,
and cumulative stages. Then as luck would have it, I lately whiled away the tedium of a week's
half-sickness and confinement, by collating these very items for another (yet unfulfilled,
probably abandon'd,) purpose; and if you will be satisfied with them, authentic in date-occurrence
and fact simply, and told my own way, garrulous-like, here they are. I shall not hesitate to
make extracts, for I catch at anything to save labor; but those will be the best versions of
what I want to convey.

GENEALOGY--VAN VELSOR AND WHITMAN

The later years of the last century found the Van Velsor family, my mother's side, living on
their own farm at Cold Spring, Long Island, New York State, near the eastern edge of Queen's
county, about a mile from the harbor.[2] My father's side--probably the fifth generation from
the first English arrivals in New England--were at the same time farmers on their own land--(and
a fine domain it was, 500 acres, all good soil, gently sloping east and south, about one-tenth
woods, plenty of grand old trees,) two or three miles off, at West Hills, Suffolk county. The
Whitman name in the Eastern States, and so branch and South, starts undoubtedly from one John
Whitman, born 1602, in Old England, where he grew up, married, and his eldest son was born
in 1629. He came over in the "True Love" in 1640 to America, and lived in Weymouth, Mass.,
which place became the mother-hive of the New-Englanders of the name; he died in 1692. His
brother, Rev. Zechariah Whitman, also came over in the "True Love," either at that time or
soon after, and lived at Milford, Conn. A son of this Zechariah, named Joseph, migrated to
Huntington, Long Island, and permanently settled there. Savage's "Genealogical Dictionary"
(vol. iv, p. 524) gets the Whitman family establish'd at Huntington, per this Joseph, before
1664. It is quite certain that from that beginning, and from Joseph, the West Hill Whitmans,
and all others in Suffolk county, have since radiated, myself among the number. John and Zechariah
both went to England and back again divers times; they had large families, and several of their
children were born in the old country. We hear of the father of John and Zechariah, Abijah
Whitman, who goes over into the 1500's, but we know little about him, except that he also was
for some time in America.

These old pedigree-reminiscences come up to me vividly from a visit I made not long since (in
my 63d year) to West Hills, and to the burial grounds of my ancestry, both sides. I extract
from notes of that visit, written there and then:

Note:

[2] Long Island was settled first on the west end by the Dutch from Holland, then on the east
end by the English--the dividing line of the two nationalities being a little west of Huntington
where my father's folks lived, and where I was born.

THE OLD WHITMAN AND VAN VELSOR CEMETERIES

July 29, 1881.--After more than forty years' absence, (except a brief visit, to take my father
there once more, two years before he died,) went down Long Island on a week' s jaunt to the
place where I was born, thirty miles from New York city. Rode around the old familiar spots,
viewing and pondering and dwelling long upon them, every-thing coming back to me. Went to the
old Whitman homestead on the upland and took a view eastward, inclining south, over the broad
and beautiful farm lands of my grandfather (1780,) and my father. There was the new house (1810,)
the big oak a hundred and fifty or two hundred years old; there the well, the sloping kitchen-garden,
and a little way off even the well-kept remains of the dwelling of my great-grandfather (1750-'60)
still standing, with its mighty timbers and low ceilings. Near by, a stately grove of tall,
vigorous black-walnuts, beautiful, Apollo-like, the sons or grandsons, no doubt, of black-walnuts
during or before 1776. On the other side of the road spread the famous apple orchard, over
twenty acres, the trees planted by hands long mouldering in the grave (my uncle Jesse's,) but
quite many of them evidently capable of throwing out their annual blossoms and fruit yet.

I now write these lines seated on an old grave (doubtless of a century since at least) on the
burial hill of the Whitmans of many generations. Fifty or more graves are quite plainly traceable,
and as many more decay'd out of all form--depress'd mounds, crumbled and broken stones, cover'd
with moss--the gray and sterile hill, the clumps of chestnuts outside, the silence, just varied
by the soughing wind. There is always the deepest eloquence of sermon or poem in any of these
ancient graveyards of which Long Island has so many; so what must this one have been to me?
My whole family history, with its succession of links, from the first settlement down to date,
told here--three centuries concentrate on this sterile acre.

The next day, July 30, I devoted to the maternal locality, and if possible was still more penetrated
and impress'd. I write this paragraph on the burial hul of the Van Velsors, near Cold Spring,
the most significant depository of the dead that could be imagin'd, without the slightest help
from art, but far ahead of it, soil sterile, a mostly bare plateau-flat of half an acre, the
top of a hill, brush and well grown trees and dense woods bordering all around, very primi-tive,
secluded, no visitors, no road (you cannot drive here, you have to bring the dead on foot,
and follow on foot.) Two or three-score graves quite plain; as many more almost rubb'd out.
My grandfather Cornelius and my grandmother Amy (Naomi) and numerous relatives nearer or remoter,
on my mother's side, lie buried here. The scene as I stood or sat, the delicate and wild odor
of the woods, a slightly drizzling rain, the emotional atmosphere of the place, and the inferr'd
reminiscences, were fitting accompaniments.

THE MATERNAL HOMESTEAD

I went down from this ancient grave place eighty or ninety rods to the site of the Van Velsor
homestead, where my mother was born (1795,) and where every spot had been familiar to me as
a child and youth (1825-'40.) Then stood there a long rambling, dark-gray, shingle-sided house,
with sheds, pens, a great barn, and much open road-space. Now of all those not a vestige left;
all had been pull'd down, erased, and the plough and harrow pass'd over foundations, road-spaces
and everything, for many summers; fenced in at present, and grain and clover growing like any
other fine fields. Only a big hole from the cellar, with some little heaps of broken stone,
green with grass and weeds, identified the place. Even the copious old brook and spring seem'd
to have mostly dwindled away. The whole scene, with what it arous'd, memories of my young days
there half a century ago, the vast kitchen and ample fireplace and the sitting-room adjoining,
the plain furniture, the meals, the house full of merry people, my grandmother Amy's sweet
old face in its Quaker cap, my grandfather "the Major," jovial, red, stout, with sonorous voice
and characteristic physiognomy, with the actual sights themselves, made the most pronounc'd
half-day's experience of my whole jaunt.

For there with all those wooded, hilly, healthy surroundings, my dearest mother, Louisa Van
Velsor, grew up--(her mother, Amy Williams, of the Friends' or Quakers' denomination--the Williams
family, seven sisters and one brother--the father and brother sailors, both of whom met their
deaths at sea.) The Van Velsor people were noted for fine horses, which the men bred and train'd
from blooded stock. My mother, as a young woman, was a daily and daring rider. As to the head
of the family himself, the old race of the Netherlands, so deeply grafted on Manhattan island
and in Kings and Queens counties, never yielded a more mark'd and full Americanized specimen
than Major Cornelius Van Velsor.

TWO OLD FAMILY INTERIORS

Of the domestic and inside life of the middle of Long Island, at and just before that time,
here are two samples:

"The Whitmans, at the beginning of the present century, lived in a long story-and-a-half farm-house,
hugely timber'd, which is still standing. A great smoke-canopied kitchen, with vast hearth
and chimney, form'd one end of the house. The existence of slavery in New York at that time,
and the possession by the family of some twelve or fifteen slaves, house and field servants,
gave things quite a patriarchial look. The very young darkies could be seen, a swarm of them,
toward sundown, in this kitchen, squatted in a circle on the floor, eating their supper of
Indian pudding and milk. In the house, and in food and furniture, all was rude, but substantial.
No carpets or stoves were known, and no coffee, and tea or sugar only for the women. Rousing
wood fires gave both warmth and light on winter nights. Pork, poultry, beef, and all the ordinary
vegetables and grains were plentiful. Cider was the men's common drink, and used at meals.
The clothes were mainly homespun. Journeys were made by both men and women on horseback. Both
sexes labor'd with their own hands-the men on the farm--the women in the house and around it.
Books were scarce. The annual copy of the almanac was a treat, and was pored over through the
long winter evenings. I must not forget to mention that both these families were near enough
to the sea to behold it from the high places, and to hear in still hours the roar of the surf;
the latter, after a storm, giving a peculiar sound at night. Then all hands, male and female,
went down frequently on beach and bathing parties, and the men on practical expeditions for
cutting salt hay, and for clamming and fishing."--John Burroughs's NOTES.

"The ancestors of Walt Whitman, on both the paternal and maternal sides, kept a good table,
sustained the hospitalities, decorums, and an excellent social reputation in the county, and
they were often of mark'd individuality. If space permitted, I should consider some of the
men worthy special description; and still more some of the women. His great-grandmother on
the paternal side, for instance, was a large swarthy woman, who lived to a very old age. She
smoked tobacco, rode on horseback like a man, managed the most vicious horse, and, becoming
a widow in later life, went forth every day over her farm-lands, frequently in the saddle,
directing the labor of her slaves, in language in which, on exciting occasions, oaths were
not spared. The two immediate grandmothers were, in the best sense, superior women. The maternal
one (Amy Williams before marriage) was a Friend, or Quakeress, of sweet, sensible character,
house-wifely proclivities, and deeply intuitive and spiritual. The other (Hannah Brush,) was
an equally noble, perhaps stronger character, lived to be very old, had quite a family of sons,
was a natural lady, was in early life a school-mistress, and had great solidity of mind. W.
W. himself makes much of the women of his ancestry."--The Same.

Out from these arrieres of persons and scenes, I was born May 31, 1819. And now to dwell awhile
on the locality itself--as the successive growth-stages of my infancy, childhood, youth and
manhood were all pass'd on Long Island, which I sometimes feel as if I had incorporated. I
roam'd, as boy and man, and have lived in nearly all parts, from Brooklyn to Montauk point.

PAUMANOK, AND MY LIFE ON IT AS CHILD AND YOUNG MAN

Worth fully and particularly investigating indeed this Paumanok, (to give the spot its aboriginal
name[3],) stretching east through Kings, Queens and Suffolk counties, 120 miles altogether--on
the north Long Island sound, a beautiful, varied and picturesque series of inlets, "necks"
and sea-like expansions, for a hundred miles to Orient point. On the ocean side the great south
bay dotted with countless hummocks, mostly small, some quite large, occasionally long bars
of sand out two hundred rods to a mile-and-a-half from the shore. While now and then, as at
Rockaway and far east along the Hamptons, the beach makes right on the island, the sea dashing
up without intervention. Several light-houses on the shores east; a long history of wrecks
tragedies, some even of late years. As a youngster, I was in the atmosphere and traditions
of many of these wrecks--of one or two almost an observer. Off Hempstead beach for example,
was the loss of the ship "Mexico" in 1840, (alluded to in "the Sleepers" in L. of G.) And at
Hampton, some years later, the destruction of the brig "Elizabeth," a fearful affair, in one
of the worst winter gales, where Margaret Fuller went down, with her husband and child.

Inside the outer bars or beach this south bay is everywhere comparatively shallow; of cold
winters all thick ice on the surface. As a boy I often went forth with a chum or two, on those
frozen fields, with hand-sled, axe and eel-spear, after messes of eels. We would cut holes
in the ice, sometimes striking quite an eel-bonanza, and filling our baskets with great, fat,
sweet, white-meated fellows. The scenes, the ice, drawing the hand-sled, cutting holes, spearing
the eels, &c., were of course just such fun as is dearest to boyhood. The shores of this bay,
winter and summer, and my doings there in early life, are woven all through L. of G. One sport
I was very fond of was to go on a bay-party in summer to gather sea-gull's eggs. (The gulls
lay two or three eggs, more than half the size of hen's eggs, right on the sand, and leave
the sun's heat to hatch them.)

The eastern end of Long Island, the Peconic bay region, I knew quite well too--sail'd more
than once around Shelter island, and down to Montauk--spent many an hour on Turtle hill by
the old light-house, on the extreme point, looking out over the ceaseless roll of the Atlantic.
I used to like to go down there and fraternize with the blue-fishers, or the annual squads
of sea-bass takers. Sometimes, along Montauk peninsula, (it is some 15 miles long, and good
grazing,) met the strange, unkempt, half-barbarous herdsmen, at that time living there entirely
aloof from society or civilization, in charge, on those rich pasturages, of vast droves of
horses, kine or sheep, own'd by farmers of the eastern towns. Sometimes, too, the few remaining
Indians, or half-breeds, at that period left on Montauk peninsula, but now I believe altogether
extinct.

More in the middle of the island were the spreading Hempstead plains, then (1830-'40) quite
prairie-like, open, uninhabited, rather sterile, cover'd with kill-calf and huckleberry bushes,
yet plenty of fair pasture for the cattle, mostly milch-cows, who fed there by hundreds, even
thousands, and at evening, (the plains too were own'd by the towns, and this was the use of
them in common,) might be seen taking their way home, branching off regularly in the right
places. I have often been out on the edges of these plains toward sundown, and can yet recall
in fancy the interminable cow-processions, and hear the music of the tin or copper bells clanking
far or near, and breathe the cool of the sweet and slightly aromatic evening air, and note
the sunset.

Through the same region of the island, but further east, extended wide central tracts of pine
and scrub-oak, (charcoal was largely made here,) monotonous and sterile. But many a good day
or half-day did I have, wandering through those solitary crossroads, inhaling the peculiar
and wild aroma. Here, and all along the island and its shores, I spent intervals many years,
all seasons, sometimes riding, sometimes boating, but generally afoot, (I was always then a
good walker,) absorbing fields, shores, marine incidents, characters, the bay-men, farmers,
pilots-always had a plentiful acquaintance with the latter, and with fishermen--went every
summer on sailing trips--always liked the bare sea-beach, south side, and have some of my happiest
hours on it to this day.

As I write, the whole experience comes back to me after the lapse of forty and more years--the
soothing rustle of the waves, and the saline smell--boyhood's times, the clam-digging, bare-foot,
and with trowsers roll'd up--hauling down the creek--the perfume of the sedge-meadows--the
hay-boat, and the chowder and fishing excursions;--or, of later years, little voyages down
and out New York bay, in the pilot boats. Those same later years, also, while living in Brooklyn,
(1836-'50) I went regularly every week in the mild seasons down to Coney Island, at that time
a long, bare unfrequented shore, which I had all to myself, and where I loved, after bathing,
to race up and down the hard sand, and declaim Homer or Shakspere to the surf and sea gulls
by the hour. But I am getting ahead too rapidly, and must keep more in my traces.

Note:

[3] "Paumanok, (or Paumanake, or Paumanack, the Indian name of Long Island,) over a hundred
miles long; shaped like a fish--plenty of sea shore, sandy, stormy, uninviting, the horizon
boundless, the air too strong for invalids, the bays a wonderful resort for aquatic birds,
the south-side meadows cover'd with salt hay, the soil of the island generally tough, but good
for the locust-tree, the apple orchard, and the blackberry, and with numberless springs of
the sweetest water in the world. Years ago, among the bay-men--a strong, wild race, now extinct,
or rather entirely changed--a native of Long Island was called a Paumanacker, or Creole-'Paumanacker."--John
Burroughs.

MY FIRST READING--LAFAYETTE

From 1824 to '28 our family lived in Brooklyn in Front, Cranberry and Johnson streets. In the
latter my father built a nice house for a home, and afterwards another in Tillary street. We
occupied them, one after the other, but they were mortgaged, and we lost them. I yet remember
Lafayette's visit.[4] Most of these years I went to the public schools. It must have been about
1829 or '30 that I went with my father and mother to hear Elias Hicks preach in a ball-room
on Brooklyn heights. At about the same time employ'd as a boy in an office, lawyers', father
and two sons, Clarke's, Fulton street, near Orange. I had a nice desk and window-nook to myself;
Edward C. kindly help'd me at my handwriting and composition, and, (the signal event of my
life up to that time,) subscribed for me to a big circulating library. For a time I now revel'd
in romance-reading of all kinds; first, the "Arabian Nights," all the volumes, an amazing treat.
Then, with sorties in very many other directions, took in Walter Scott's novels, one after
another, and his poetry, (and continue to enjoy novels and poetry to this day.)

Note:

[4] "On the visit of General Lafayette to this country, in 1824, he came over to Brooklyn in
state, and rode through the city. The children of the schools turn'd out to join in the welcome.
An edifice for a free public library for youths was just then commencing, and Lafayette consented
to stop on his way and lay the corner-stone. Numerous children arriving on the ground, where
a huge irregular excavation for the building was already dug, surrounded with heaps of rough
stone, several gentlemen assisted in lifting the children to safe or convenient spots to see
the ceremony. Among the rest, Lafayette, also helping the children, took up the five-year-old
Walt Whitman, and pressing the child a moment to his breast, and giving him a kiss, handed
him down to a safe spot in the excavation."--John Burroughs.

PRINTING OFFICE--OLD BROOKLYN

After about two years went to work in a weekly newspaper and printing office, to learn the
trade. The paper was the "Long Island Patriot," owned by S. E. Clements, who was also postmaster.
An old printer in the office, William Hartshorne, a revolutionary character, who had seen Washington,
was a special friend of mine, and I had many a talk with him about long past times. The apprentices,
including myself, boarded with his grand-daughter. I used occasionally to go out riding with
the boss, who was very kind to us boys; Sundays he took us all to a great old rough, fortress-looking
stone church, on Joralemon street, near where the Brooklyn city hall now is--(at that time
broad fields and country roads everywhere around.[5]) Afterward I work'd on the "Long Island
Star," Alden Spooner's paper. My father all these years pursuing his trade as carpenter and
builder, with varying fortune. There was a growing family of children--eight of us--my brother
Jesse the oldest, myself the second, my dear sisters Mary and Hannah Louisa, my brothers Andrew,
George, Thomas Jefferson, and then my youngest brother, Edward, born 1835, and always badly
crippled, as I am myself of late years.

Note:

[5] Of the Brooklyn of that time (1830-40) hardly anything remains, except the lines of the
old streets. The population was then between ten and twelve thousand. For a mile Fulton street
was lined with magnificent elm trees. The character of the place was thoroughly rural. As a
sample of comparative values, it may be mention'd that twenty-five acres in what is now the
most costly part of the city, bounded by Flatbush and Fulton avenues, were then bought by Mr
Parmentier, a French emigre, for $4000. Who remembers the old places as they were? Who remembers
the old citizens of that time? Among the former were Smith & Wood's, Coe Downing's, and other
public houses at the ferry, the old Ferry itself, Love lane, the Heights as then, the Wallabout
with the wooden bridge, and the road out beyond Fulton street to the old toll-gate. Among the
latter were the majestic and genial General Jeremiah Johnson, with others, Gabriel Furman,
Rev. E. M. Johnson, Alden Spooner, Mr. Pierrepont, Mr. Joralemon, Samuel Willoughby, Jonathan
Trotter, George Hall, Cyrus P. Smith, N. B. Morse, John Dikeman, Adrian Hegeman, William Udall,
and old Mr. Duflon, with his military garden.

GROWTH--HEALTH--WORK

I develop'd (1833-4-5) into a healthy, strong youth (grew too fast, though, was nearly as big
as a man at 15 or 16.) Our family at this period moved back to the country, my dear mother
very ill for a long time, but recover'd. All these years I was down Long Island more or less
every summer, now east, now west, sometimes months at a stretch. At 16, 17, and so on, was
fond of debating societies, and had an active membership with them, off and on, in Brooklyn
and one or two country towns on the island. A most omnivorous novel-reader, these and later
years, devour'd everything I could get. Fond of the theatre, also, in New York, went whenever
I could--sometimes witnessing fine performances.

1836-7, work'd as compositor in printing offices in New York city. Then, when little more than
18, and for a while afterwards, went to teaching country schools down in Queens and Suffolk
counties, Long Island, and "boarded round." (This latter I consider one of my best experiences
and deepest lessons in human nature behind the scenes and in the masses.) In '39, '40, I started
and publish'd a weekly paper in my native town, Huntington. Then returning to New York city
and Brooklyn, work'd on as printer and writer, mostly prose, but an occasional shy at "poetry".

MY PASSION FOR FERRIES

Living in Brooklyn or New York city from this time forward, my life, then, and still more the
following years, was curiously identified with Fulton ferry, already becoming the greatest
of its sort in the world for general importance, volume, variety, rapidity, and picturesqueness.
Almost daily, later, ('50 to '60,) I cross'd on the boats, often up in the pilot-houses where
I could get a full sweep, absorbing shows, accompaniments, surroundings. What oceanic currents,
eddies, underneath--the great tides of humanity also, with ever-shifting movements. Indeed,
I have always had a passion for ferries; to me they afford inimitable, streaming, never-failing,
living poems. The river and bay scenery, all about New York island, any time of a fine day--the
hurrying, splashing sea-tides--the changing panorama of steamers, all sizes, often a string
of big ones outward bound to distant ports--the myriads of white-sail'd schooners, sloops,
skiffs, and the marvellously beautiful yachts--the majestic sound boats as they rounded the
Battery and came along towards 5, afternoon, eastward bound--the prospect off towards Staten
Island, or down the Narrows, or the other way up the Hudson--what refreshment of spirit such
sights and experiences gave me years ago (and many a time since.) My old pilot friends, the
Balsirs, Johnny Cole, Ira Smith, William White, and my young ferry friend, Tom Gere--how well
I remember them all.

BROADWAY SIGHTS

Besides Fulton ferry, off and on for years, I knew and frequented Broadway--that noted avenue
of New York's crowded and mixed humanity, and of so many notables. Here I saw, during those
times, Andrew Jackson, Webster, Clay, Seward, Martin Van Buren, filibuster Walker, Kossuth,
Fitz Greene Halleck, Bryant, the Prince of Wales, Charles Dickens, the first Japanese ambassadors,
and lots of other celebrities of the time. Always something novel or inspiriting; yet mostly
to me the hurrying and vast amplitude of those never-ending human currents. I remember seeing
James Fenimore Cooper in a court-room in Chambers street, back of the city hall, where he was
carrying on a law case--(I think it was a charge of libel he had brought against some one.)
I also remember seeing Edgar A. Poe, and having a short interview with him, (it must have been
in 1845 or '6,) in his office, second story of a corner building, (Duane or Pearl street.)
He was editor and owner or part owner of "the Broadway Journal." The visit was about a piece
of mine he had publish'd. Poe was very cordial, in a quiet way, appear'd well in person, dress,
&c. I have a distinct and pleasing remembrance of his looks, voice, manner and matter; very
kindly and human, but subdued, perhaps a little jaded. For another of my reminiscences, here
on the west side, just below Houston street, I once saw (it must have been about 1832, of a
sharp, bright January day) a bent, feeble but stout-built very old man, bearded, swathed in
rich furs, with a great ermine cap on his head, led and assisted, almost carried, down the
steps of his high front stoop (a dozen friends and servants, emulous, carefully holding, guiding
him) and then lifted and tuck'd in a gorgeous sleigh, envelop'd in other furs, for a ride.
The sleigh was drawn by as fine a team of horses as I ever saw. (You needn't think all the
best animals are brought up nowadays; never was such horseflesh as fifty years ago on Long
Island, or south, or in New York city; folks look'd for spirit and mettle in a nag, not tame
speed merely.) Well, I, a boy of perhaps 13 or 14, stopp'd and gazed long at the spectacle
of that fur-swathed old man, surrounded by friends and servants, and the careful seating of
him in the sleigh. I remember the spirited, champing horses, the driver with his whip, and
a fellow-driver by his side, for extra prudence. The old man, the subject of so much attention,
I can almost see now. It was John Jacob Astor.

The years 1846, '47, and there along, see me still in New York City, working as writer and
printer, having my usual good health, and a good time generally.

OMNIBUS JAUNTS AND DRIVERS

One phase of those days must by no means go unrecorded--namely, the Broadway omnibuses, with
their drivers.

The vehicles still (I write this paragraph in 1881) give a portion of the character of Broadway--the
Fifth avenue, Madison avenue, and Twenty-third street lines yet running. But the flush days
of the old Broadway stages, characteristic and copious, are over. The Yellow-birds, the Red-birds,
the original Broadway, the Fourth avenue, the Knickerbocker, and a dozen others of twenty or
thirty years ago, are all gone. And the men specially identified with them, and giving vitality
and meaning to them--the drivers--a strange, natural, quick-eyed and wondrous race--(not only
Rabelais and Cervantes would have gloated upon them, but Homer and Shakspere would)--how well
I remember them, and must here give a word about them. How many hours, forenoons and afternoons--how
many exhilarating night-times I have had--perhaps June or July, in cooler air-riding the whole
length of Broadway, listening to some yarn, (and the most vivid yarns ever spun, and the rarest
mimicry)--or perhaps I declaiming some stormy passage from Julius Caesar or Richard, (you could
roar as loudly as you chose in that heavy, dense, uninterrupted street-bass.) Yes, I knew all
the drivers then, Broadway Jack, Dressmaker, Balky Bill, George Storms, Old Elephant, his brother
Young Elephant (who came afterward,) Tippy, Pop Rice, Big Frank, Yellow Joe, Pete Callahan,
Patsey Dee, and dozens more; for there were hundreds. They had immense qualities, largely animal--eating,
drinking; women--great personal pride, in their way--perhaps a few slouches here and there,
but I should have trusted the general run of them, in their simple good-will and honor, under
all circumstances. Not only for comradeship, and sometimes affection--great studies I found
them also. (I suppose the critics will laugh heartily, but the influence of those Broadway
omnibus jaunts and drivers and declamations and escapades undoubtedly enter'd into the gestation
of "Leaves of Grass.")

PLAYS AND OPERAS TOO

And certain actors and singers, had a good deal to do with the business. All through these
years, off and on, I frequented the old Park, the Bowery, Broadway and Chatham-square theatres,
and the Italian operas at Chambers-street, Astor-place or the Battery--many seasons was on
the free list, writing for papers even as quite a youth. The old Park theatre--what names,
reminiscences, the words bring back! Placide, Clarke, Mrs. Vernon, Fisher, Clara F., Mrs. Wood,
Mrs. Seguin, Ellen Tree, Hackett, the younger Kean, Macready, Mrs. Richardson, Rice--singers,
tragedians, comedians. What perfect acting! Henry Placide in "Napoleon's Old Guard" or "Grandfather
Whitehead,"--or "the Provoked Husband" of Gibber, with Fanny Kemble as Lady Townley--or Sheridan
Knowles in his own "Virginius"--or inimitable Power in "Born to Good Luck." These, and many
more, the years of youth and onward. Fanny Kemble--name to conjure up great mimic scenes withal--perhaps
the greatest. I remember well her rendering of Bianca in "Fazio," and Marianna in "the Wife."
Nothing finer did ever stage exhibit--the veterans of all nations said so, and my boyish heart
and head felt it in every minute cell. The lady was just matured, strong, better than merely
beautiful, born from the footlights, had had three years' practice in London and through the
British towns, and then she came to give America that young maturity and roseate power in all
their noon, or rather forenoon, flush. It was my good luck to see her nearly every night she
play'd at the old Park--certainly in all her principal characters. I heard, these years, well
render'd, all the Italian and other operas in vogue, "Sonnambula," "the Puritans," "Der Freischutz,"
"Huguenots," "Fille d'Regiment," "Faust," "Etoile du Nord," "Poliuto," and others. Verdi's
"Ernani," "Rigoletto," and "Trovatore," with Donnizetti's "Lucia" or "Favorita" or "Lucrezia,"
and Auber's "Massaniello," or Rossini's "William Tell" and "Gazza Ladra," were among my special
enjoyments. I heard Alboni every time she sang in New York and vicinity--also Grisi, the tenor
Mario, and the baritone Badiali, the finest in the world.

This musical passion follow'd my theatrical one. As a boy or young man I had seen, (reading
them carefully the day beforehand,) quite all Shakspere's acting dramas, play'd wonderfully
well. Even yet I cannot conceive anything finer than old Booth in "Richard Third," or "Lear,"
(I don't know which was best,) or Iago, (or Pescara, or Sir Giles Overreach, to go outside
of Shakspere)--or Tom Hamblin in "Macbeth"--or old Clarke, either as the ghost in "Hamlet,"
or as Prospero in "the Tempest," with Mrs. Austin as Ariel, and Peter Richings as Caliban.
Then other dramas, and fine players in them, Forrest as Metamora or Damon or Brutus--John R.
Scott as Tom Cringle or Rolla--or Charlotte Cushman's Lady Gay Spanker in "London Assurance."
Then of some years later, at Castle Garden, Battery, I yet recall the splendid seasons of the
Havana musical troupe under Maretzek--the fine band, the cool sea-breezes, the unsurpass'd
vocalism--Steffan'one, Bosio, Truffi, Marini in "Marino Faliero," "Don Pasquale," or "Favorita."
No better playing or singing ever in New York. It was here too I afterward heard Jenny Lind.
(The Battery--its past associations--what tales those old trees and walks and sea-walls could
tell!)

THROUGH EIGHT YEARS.

In 1848, '49, I was occupied as editor of the "daily Eagle" newspaper, in Brooklyn. The latter
year went off on a leisurely journey and working expedition (my brother Jeff with me) through
all the middle States, and down the Ohio and Mississippi rivers. Lived awhile in New Orleans,
and work'd there on the editorial staff of "daily Crescent" newspaper. After a time plodded
back northward, up the Mississippi, and around to, and by way of the great lakes, Michigan,
Huron, and Erie, to Niagara falls and lower Canada, finally returning through central New York
and down the Hudson; traveling altogether probably 8,000 miles this trip, to and fro. '51,
'53, occupied in house-building in Brooklyn. (For a little of the first part of that time in
printing a daily and weekly paper, "the Freeman.") '55, lost my dear father this year by death.
Commenced putting "Leaves of Grass" to press for good, at the job printing office of my friends,
the brothers Rome, in Brooklyn, after many MS. doings and undoings--(I had great trouble in
leaving out the stock "poetical" touches, but succeeded at last.) I am now (1856-'7) passing
through my 37th year.

SOURCES OF CHARACTER--RESULTS--1860

To sum up the foregoing from the outset (and, of course, far, far more unrecorded,) I estimate
three leading sources and formative stamps to my own character, now solidified for good or
bad, and its subsequent literary and other outgrowth--the maternal nativity-stock brought hither
from far-away Netherlands, for one, (doubtless the best)--the subterranean tenacity and central
bony structure (obstinacy, wilfulness) which I get from my paternal English elements, for another--and
the combination of my Long Island birth-spot, sea-shores, childhood's scenes, absorptions,
with teeming Brooklyn and New York --with, I suppose, my experiences afterward in the secession
outbreak, for the third.

For, in 1862, startled by news that my brother George, an officer in the 51st New York volunteers,
had been seriously wounded (first Fredericksburg battle, December 13th,) I hurriedly went down
to the field of war in Virginia. But I must go back a little.

OPENING OF THE SECESSION WAR

News of the attack on fort Sumter and the flag at Charleston harbor, S. C., was receiv'd in
New York city late at night (13th April, 1861,) and was immediately sent out in extras of the
newspapers. I had been to the opera in Fourteenth street that night, and after the performance
was walking down Broadway toward twelve o'clock, on my way to Brooklyn, when I heard in the
distance the loud cries of the newsboys, who came presently tearing and yelling up the street,
rushing from side to side even more furiously than usual. I bought an extra and cross'd to
the Metropolitan hotel (Niblo's) where the great lamps were still brightly blazing, and, with
a crowd of others, who gather'd impromptu, read the news, which was evidently authentic. For
the benefit of some who had no papers, one of us read the telegram aloud, while all listen'd
silently and attentively. No remark was made by any of the crowd, which had increas'd to thirty
or forty, but all stood a minute or two, I remember, before they dispers'd. I can almost see
them there now, under the lamps at midnight again.

NATIONAL UPRISING AND VOLUNTEERING

I have said somewhere that the three Presidentiads preceding 1861 show'd how the weakness and
wickedness of rulers are just as eligible here in America under republican, as in Europe under
dynastic influences. But what can I say of that prompt and splendid wrestling with secession
slavery, the arch-enemy personified, the instant he unmistakably show'd his face? The volcanic
upheaval of the nation, after that firing on the flag at Charleston, proved for certain something
which had been previously in great doubt, and at once substantially settled the question of
disunion. In my judgment it will remain as the grandest and most encouraging spectacle yet
vouchsafed in any age, old or new, to political progress and democracy. It was not for what
came to the surface merely--though that was important--but what it indicated below, which was
of eternal importance. Down in the abysms of New World humanity there had form'd and harden'd
a primal hardpan of national Union will, determin'd and in the majority, refusing to be tamper'd
with or argued against, confronting all emergencies, and capable at any time of bursting all
surface bonds, and breaking out like an earthquake. It is, indeed, the best lesson of the century,
or of America, and it is a mighty privilege to have been part of it. (Two great spectacles,
immortal proofs of democracy, unequall'd in all the history of the past, are furnish'd by the
secession war--one at the beginning, the other at its close. Those are, the general, voluntary,
arm'd upheaval, and the peaceful and harmonious disbanding of the armies in the summer of 1865.)

CONTEMPTUOUS FEELING

Even after the bombardment of Sumter, however, the gravity of the revolt, and the power and
will of the slave States for a strong and continued military resistance to national authority,
were not at all realized at the North, except by a few. Nine-tenths of the people of the free
States look'd upon the rebellion, as started in South Carolina, from a feeling one-half of
contempt, and the other half composed of anger and incredulity. It was not thought it would
be join'd in by Virginia, North Carolina, or Georgia. A great and cautious national official
predicted that it would blow over "in sixty days," and folks generally believ'd the prediction.
I remember talking about it on a Fulton ferry-boat with the Brooklyn mayor, who said he only
"hoped the Southern fire-eaters would commit some overt act of resistance, as they would then
be at once so effectually squelch'd, we would never hear of secession again--but he was afraid
they never would have the pluck to really do anything."

I remember, too, that a couple of companies of the Thirteenth Brooklyn, who rendezvou'd at
the city armory, and started thence as thirty days' men, were all provided with pieces of rope,
conspicuously tied to their musket-barrels, with which to bring back each man a prisoner from
the audacious South, to be led in a noose, on our men's early and triumphant return!

BATTLE OF BULL RUN, JULY, 1861

All this sort of feeling was destin'd to be arrested and revers'd by a terrible shock--the
battle of first Bull Run--certainly, as we now know it, one of the most singular fights on
record. (All battles, and their results, are far more matters of accident than is generally
thought; but this was throughout a casualty, a chance. Each side supposed it had won, till
the last moment. One had, in point of fact, just the same right to be routed as the other.
By a fiction, or series of fictions, the national forces at the last moment exploded in a panic
and fled from the field.) The defeated troops commenced pouring into Washington over the Long
Bridge at daylight on Monday, 22d--day drizzling all through with rain. The Saturday and Sunday
of the battle (20th, 21st,) had been parch'd and hot to an extreme--the dust, the grime and
smoke, in layers, sweated in, follow'd by other layers again sweated in, absorb'd by those
excited souls--their clothes all saturated with the clay-powder filling the air--stirr'd up
everywhere on the dry roads and trodden fields by the regiments, swarming wagons, artillery,
&c.--all the men with this coating of murk and sweat and rain, now recoiling back, pouring
over the Long Bridge--a horrible march of twenty miles, returning to Washington baffed, humiliated,
panic-struck. Where are the vaunts, and the proud boasts with which you went forth? Where are
your banners, and your bands of music, and your ropes to bring back your prisoners? Well, there
isn't a band playing--and there isn't a flag but clings ashamed and lank to its staff.

The sun rises, but shines not. The men appear, at first sparsely and shame-faced enough, then
thicker, in the streets of Washington --appear in Pennsylvania avenue, and on the steps and
basement entrances. They come along in disorderly mobs, some in squads, stragglers, companies.
Occasionally, a rare regiment, in perfect order, with its officers (some gaps, dead, the true
braves,) marching in silence, with lowering faces, stern, weary to sinking, all black and dirty,
but every man with his musket, and stepping alive; but these are the exceptions. Sidewalks
of Pennsylvania avenue, Fourteenth street, &c., crowded, jamm'd with citizens, darkies, clerks,
everybody, lookers-on; women in the windows, curious expressions from faces, as those swarms
of dirt-cover'd return'd soldiers there (will they never end?) move by; but nothing said, no
comments; (half our lookers-on secesh of the most venomous kind--they say nothing; but the
devil snickers in their faces.) During the forenoon Washington gets all over motley with these
defeated soldiers--queer-looking objects, strange eyes and faces, drench'd (the steady rain
drizzles on all day) and fearfully worn, hungry, haggard, blister'd in the feet. Good people
(but not over-many of them either,) hurry up something for their grub. They put wash-kettles
on the fire, for soup, for coffee. They set tables on the side-walks--wagon-loads of bread
are purchas'd, swiftly cut in stout chunks. Here are two aged ladies, beautiful, the first
in the city for culture and charm, they stand with store of eating and drink at an improvis'd
table of rough plank, and give food, and have the store replenished from their house every
half-hour all that day; and there in the rain they stand, active, silent, white-hair'd, and
give food, though the tears stream down their cheeks, almost without intermission, the whole
time. Amid the deep excitement, crowds and motion, and desperate eagerness, it seems strange
to see many, very many, of the soldiers sleeping--in the midst of all, sleeping sound. They
drop down anywhere, on the steps of houses, up close by the basements or fences, on the sidewalk,
aside on some vacant lot, and deeply sleep. A poor 17 or 18 year old boy lies there, on the
stoop of a grand house; he sleeps so calmly, so profoundly. Some clutch their muskets firmly
even in sleep. Some in squads; comrades, brothers, close together--and on them, as they lay,
sulkily drips the rain.

As afternoon pass'd, and evening came, the streets, the bar-rooms, knots everywhere, listeners,
questioners, terrible yarns, bugaboo, mask'd batteries, our regiment all cut up, &c.--stories
and story-tellers, windy, bragging, vain centres of street-crowds. Resolution, manliness, seem
to have abandon'd Washington. The principal hotel, Willard's, is full of shoulder-straps--thick,
crush'd, creeping with shoulder-straps. (I see them, and must have a word with them. There
you are, shoulder-straps!--but where are your companies? where are your men? Incompetents!
never tell me of chances of battle, of getting stray'd, and the like. I think this is your
work, this retreat, after all. Sneak, blow, put on airs there in Willard's sumptuous parlors
and bar-rooms, or anywhere--no explanation shall save you. Bull Run is your work; had you been
half or one-tenth worthy your men, this would never have happen'd.)

Meantime, in Washington, among the great persons and their entourage, a mixture of awful consternation,
uncertainty, rage, shame, helplessness, and stupefying disappointment. The worst is not only
imminent, but already here. In a few hours--perhaps before the next meal--the secesh generals,
with their victorious hordes, will be upon us. The dream of humanity, the vaunted Union we
thought so strong, so impregnable--lo! it seems already smash'd like a china plate. One bitter,
bitter hour--perhaps proud America will never again know such an hour. She must pack and fly--no
time to spare. Those white palaces--the dome-crown'd capitol there on the hill, so stately
over the trees--shall they be left--or destroy'd first? For it is certain that the talk among
certain of the magnates and officers and clerks and officials everywhere, for twenty-four hours
in and around Washington after Bull Run, was loud and undisguised for yielding out and out,
and substituting the southern rule, and Lincoln promptly abdicating and departing. If the secesh
officers and forces had immediately follow'd, and by a bold Napoleonic movement had enter'd
Washington the first day, (or even the second,) they could have had things their own way, and
a powerful faction north to back them. One of our returning colonels express'd in public that
night, amid a swarm of officers and gentlemen in a crowded room, the opinion that it was useless
to fight, that the southerners had made their title clear, and that the best course for the
national government to pursue was to desist from any further attempt at stopping them, and
admit them again to the lead, on the best terms they were willing to grant. Not a voice was
rais'd against this judgment, amid that large crowd of officers and gentlemen. (The fact is,
the hour was one of the three or four of those crises we had then and afterward, during the
fluctuations of four years, when human eyes appear'd at least just as likely to see the last
breath of the Union as to see it continue.)

THE STUPOR PASSES--SOMETHING ELSE BEGINS

But the hour, the day, the night pass'd, and whatever returns, an hour, a day, a night like
that can never again return. The President, recovering himself, begins that very night--sternly,
rapidly sets about the task of reorganizing his forces, and placing himself in positions for
future and surer work. If there were nothing else of Abraham Lincoln for history to stamp him
with, it is enough to send him with his wreath to the memory of all future time, that he endured
that hour, that day, bitterer than gall--indeed a crucifixion day--that it did not conquer
him--that he unflinchingly stemm'd it, and resolv'd to lift himself and the Union out of it.

Then the great New York papers at once appear'd, (commencing that evening, and following it
up the next morning, and incessantly through many days afterwards,) with leaders that rang
out over the land with the loudest, most reverberating ring of clearest bugles, full of encouragement,
hope, inspiration, unfaltering defiance; Those magnificent editorials! they never flagg'd for
a fortnight. The "Herald" commenced them--I remember the articles well. The "Tribune" was equally
cogent and inspiriting--and the "Times," "Evening Post," and other principal papers, were not
a whit behind. They came in good time, for they were needed. For in the humiliation of Bull
Run, the popular feeling north, from its extreme of superciliousness, recoil'd to the depth
of gloom and apprehension.

(Of all the days of the war, there are two especially I can never forget. Those were the day
following the news, in New York and Brooklyn, of that first Bull Run defeat, and the day of
Abraham Lincoln's death. I was home in Brooklyn on both occasions. The day of the murder we
heard the news very early in the morning. Mother prepared breakfast--and other meals afterward--as
usual; but not a mouthful was eaten all day by either of us. We each drank half a cup of coffee;
that was all. Little was said. We got every newspaper morning and evening, and the frequent
extras of that period, and pass'd them silently to each other.)

DOWN AT THE FRONT

FALMOUTH, VA., opposite Fredericksburgh, December 21, 1862.--Begin my visits among the camp
hospitals in the army of the Potomac. Spend a good part of the day in a large brick mansion
on the banks of the Rappahannock, used as a hospital since the battle--seems to have receiv'd
only the worst cases. Out doors, at the foot of a tree, within ten yards of the front of the
house, I notice a heap of amputated feet, legs, arms, hands, &c., a full load for a one-horse
cart. Several dead bodies lie near, each cover'd with its brown woolen blanket. In the door-yard,
towards the river, are fresh graves, mostly of officers, their names on pieces of arrel-staves
or broken boards, stuck in the dirt. (Most of these bodies were subsequently taken up and transported
north to their friends.) The large mansion is quite crowded upstairs and down, everything impromptu,
no system, all bad enough, but I have no doubt the best that can be done; all the wounds pretty
bad, some frightful, the men in their old clothes, unclean and bloody. Some of the wounded
are rebel soldiers and officers, prisoners. One, a Mississippian, a captain, hit badly in leg,
I talk'd with some time; he ask'd me for papers, which I gave him. (I saw him three months
afterward in Washington, with his leg amputated, doing well.) I went through the rooms, downstairs
and up. Some of the men were dying. I had nothing to give at that visit, but wrote a few letters
to folks home, mothers, &c. Also talk'd to three or four, who seem'd most susceptible to it,
and needing it.

AFTER FIRST FREDERICKSBURG

December 23 to 31.--The results of the late battle are exhibited everywhere about here in thousands
of cases, (hundreds die every day,) in the camp, brigade, and division hospitals. These are
merely tents, and sometimes very poor ones, the wounded lying on the ground, lucky if their
blankets are spread on layers of pine or hemlock twigs, or small leaves. No cots; seldom even
a mattress. It is pretty cold. The ground is frozen hard, and there is occasional snow. I go
around from one case to another. I do not see that I do much good to these wounded and dying;
but I cannot leave them. Once in a while some youngster holds on to me convulsively, and I
do what I can for him; at any rate, stop with him and sit near him for hours, if he wishes it.

Besides the hospitals, I also go occasionally on long tours through the camps, talking with
the men, &c. Sometimes at night among the groups around the fires, in their shebang enclosures
of bushes. These are curious shows, full of characters and groups. I soon get acquainted anywhere
in camp, with officers or men, and am always well used. Sometimes I go down on picket with
the regiments I know best. As to rations, the army here at present seems to be tolerably well
supplied, and the men have enough, such as it is, mainly salt pork and hard tack. Most of the
regiments lodge in the flimsy little shelter-tents. A few have built themselves huts of logs
and mud, with fire-places.

BACK TO WASHINGTON

January, '63.--Left camp at Falmouth, with some wounded, a few days since, and came here by
Aquia creek railroad, and so on government steamer up the Potomac. Many wounded were with us
on the cars and boat. The cars were just common platform ones. The railroad journey of ten
or twelve miles was made mostly before sunrise. The soldiers guarding the road came out from
their tents or shebangs of bushes with rumpled hair and half-awake look. Those on duty were
walking their posts, some on banks over us, others down far below the level of the track. I
saw large cavalry camps off the road. At Aquia creek landing were numbers of wounded going
north. While I waited some three hours, I went around among them. Several wanted word sent
home to parents, brothers, wives, &c., which I did for them, (by mail the next day from Washington.)
On the boat I had my hands full. One poor fellow died going up.

I am now remaining in and around Washington, daily visiting the hospitals. Am much in Patent-office,
Eighth street, H street, Armory-square, and others. Am now able to do a little good, having
money, (as almoner of others home,) and getting experience. To-day, Sunday afternoon and till
nine in the evening, visited Campbell hospital; attended specially to one case in ward I, very
sick with pleurisy and typhoid fever, young man, farmer's son, D. F. Russell, company E, 60th
New York, downhearted and feeble; a long time before he would take any interest; wrote a letter
home to his mother, in Malone, Franklin county, N. Y., at his request; gave him some fruit
and one or two other gifts; envelop'd and directed his letter, &c. Then went thoroughly through
ward 6, observ'd every case in the ward, without, I think, missing one; gave perhaps from twenty
to thirty persons, each one some little gift, such as oranges, apples, sweet crackers, figs, &c.

Thursday, Jan. 21.--Devoted the main part of the day to Armory-square hospital; went pretty
thoroughly through wards F, G, H, and I; some fifty cases in each ward. In ward F supplied
the men throughout with writing paper and stamp'd envelope each; distributed in small portions,
to proper subjects, a large jar of first-rate preserv'd berries, which had been donated to
me by a lady--her own cooking. Found several cases I thought good subjects for small sums of
money, which I furnish'd. (The wounded men often come up broke, and it helps their spirits
to have even the small sum I give them.) My paper and envelopes all gone, but distributed a
good lot of amusing reading matter; also, as I thought judicious, tobacco, oranges, apples,
&c. Interesting cases in ward I; Charles Miller, bed 19, company D, 53d Pennsylvania, is only
16 years of age, very bright, courageous boy, left leg amputated below the knee; next bed to
him, another young lad very sick; gave each appropriate gifts. In the bed above, also, amputation
of the left leg; gave him a little jar of raspberries; bed J, this ward, gave a small sum;
also to a soldier on crutches, sitting on his bed near.... (I am more and more surprised at
the very great proportion of youngsters from fifteen to twenty-one in the army. I afterwards
found a still greater proportion among the southerners.)

Evening, same day, went to see D. F. R., before alluded to; found him remarkably changed for
the better; up and dress'd--quite a triumph; he afterwards got well, and went back to his regiment.

Distributed in the wards a quantity of note-paper, and forty or fifty stamp'd envelopes, of
which I had recruited my stock, and the men were much in need.

FIFTY HOURS LEFT WOUNDED ON THE FIELD

Here is a case of a soldier I found among the crowded cots in the Patent-office. He likes to
have some one to talk to, and we will listen to him. He got badly hit in his leg and side at
Fredericksburgh that eventful Saturday, 13th of December. He lay the succeeding two days and
nights helpless on the field, between the city and those grim terraces of batteries; his company
and regiment had been compell'd to leave him to his fate. To make matters worse, it happen'd
he lay with his head slightly down hill, and could not help himself. At the end of some fifty
hours he was brought off, with other wounded, under a flag of truce. I ask him how the rebels
treated him as he lay during those two days and nights within reach of them--whether they came
to him--whether they abused him? He answers that several of the rebels, soldiers and others,
came to him at one time and another. A couple of them, who were together, spoke roughly and
sarcastically, but nothing worse. One middle-aged man, however, who seem'd to be moving around
the field, among the dead and wounded, for benevolent purposes, came to him in a way he will
never forget; treated our soldier kindly, bound up his wounds, cheer'd him, gave him a couple
of biscuits and a drink of whiskey and water; asked him if he could eat some beef. This good
secesh, however, did not change our soldier's position, for it might have caused the blood
to burst from the wounds, clotted and stagnated. Our soldier is from Pennsylvania; has had
a pretty severe time; the wounds proved to be bad ones. But he retains a good heart, and is
at present on the gain. (It is not uncommon for the men to remain on the field this way, one,
two, or even four or five days.)

HOSPITAL SCENES AND PERSONS

Letter Writing.--When eligible, I encourage the men to write, and myself, when called upon,
write all sorts of letters for them (including love letters, very tender ones.) Almost as I
reel off these memoranda, I write for a new patient to his wife. M. de F., of the 17th Connecticut,
company H, has just come up (February 17th) from Windmill point, and is received in ward H,
Armory-square. He is an intelligent looking man, has a foreign accent, black-eyed and hair'd,
a Hebraic appearance. Wants a telegraphic message sent to his wife, New Canaan, Conn. I agree
to send the message--but to make things sure I also sit down and write the wife a letter, and
despatch it to the post-office immediately, as he fears she will come on, and he does not wish
her to, as he will surely get well.

Saturday, January 30th.--Afternoon, visited Campbell hospital. Scene of cleaning up the ward,
and giving the men all clean clothes--through the ward (6) the patients dressing or being dress'd--the
naked upper half of the bodies--the good-humor and fun--the shirts, drawers, sheets of beds,
&c., and the general fixing up for Sunday. Gave J. L. 50 cents.

Wednesday, February 4th.--Visited Armory-square hospital, went pretty thoroughly through wards
E and D. Supplied paper and envelopes to all who wish'd--as usual, found plenty of men who
needed those articles. Wrote letters. Saw and talk'd with two or three members of the Brooklyn
14th regt. A poor fellow in ward D, with a fearful wound in a fearful condition, was having
some loose splinters of bone taken from the neighborhood of the wound. The operation was long,
and one of great pain--yet, after it was well commenced, the soldier bore it in silence. He
sat up, propp'd--was much wasted--had lain a long time quiet in one position (not for days
only but weeks,) a bloodless, brown-skinn'd face, with eyes full of determination--belong'd
to a New York regiment. There was an unusual cluster of surgeons, medical cadets, nurses, &c.,
around his bed--I thought the whole thing was done with tenderness, and done well. In one case,
the wife sat by the side of her husband, his sickness typhoid fever, pretty bad. In another,
by the side of her son, a mother--she told me she had seven children, and this was the youngest.
(A fine, kind, healthy, gentle mother, good-looking, not very old, with a cap on her head,
and dress'd like home--what a charm it gave to the whole ward.) I liked the woman nurse in
ward E--I noticed how she sat a long time by a poor fellow who just had, that morning, in addition
to his other sickness, bad hemorrhage--she gently assisted him, reliev'd him of the blood,
holding a cloth to his mouth, as he coughed it up--he was so weak he could only just turn his
head over on the pillow.

One young New York man, with a bright, handsome face, had been lying several months from a
most disagreeable wound, receiv'd at Bull Run. A bullet had shot him right through the bladder,
hitting him front, low in the belly, and coming out back. He had suffer'd much--the water came
out of the wound, by slow but steady quantities, for many weeks--so that he lay almost constantly
in a sort of puddle--and there were other disagreeable circumstances. He was of good heart,
however. At present comparatively comfortable, had a bad throat, was delighted with a stick
of horehound candy I gave him, with one or two other trifles.

PATENT-OFFICE HOSPITAL

February 23.--I must not let the great hospital at the Patent-office pass away without some
mention. A few weeks ago the vast area of the second story of that noblest of Washington buildings
was crowded close with rows of sick, badly wounded and dying soldiers. They were placed in
three very large apartments. I went there many times. It was a strange, solemn, and, with all
its features of suffering and death, a sort of fascinating sight. I go sometimes at night to
soothe and relieve particular cases. Two of the immense apartments are fill'd with high and
ponderous glass cases, crowded with models in miniature of every kind of utensil, machine or
invention, it ever enter'd into the mind of man to conceive; and with curiosities and foreign
presents. Between these cases are lateral openings, perhaps eight feet wide and quite deep,
and in these were placed the sick, besides a great long double row of them up and down through
the middle of the hall. Many of them were very bad cases, wounds and amputations. Then there
was a gallery running above the hall in which there were beds also. It was, indeed, a curious
scene, especially at night when lit up. The glass cases, the beds, the forms lying there, the
gallery above, and the marble pavement under foot--the suffering, and the fortitude to bear
it in various degrees--occasionally, from some, the groan that could not be repress'd--sometimes
a poor fellow dying, with emaciated face and glassy eye, the nurse by his side, the doctor
also there, but no friend, no relative--such were the sights but lately in the Patent-office.
(The wounded have since been removed from there, and it is now vacant again.)

THE WHITE HOUSE BY MOONLIGHT

February 24th.--A spell of fine soft weather. I wander about a good deal, sometimes at night
under the moon. Tonight took a long look at the President's house. The white portico--the palace-like,
tall, round columns, spotless as snow--the walls also--the tender and soft moonlight, flooding
the pale marble, and making peculiar faint languishing shades, not shadows--everywhere a soft
transparent hazy, thin, blue moon-lace, hanging in the air--the brilliant and extra-plentiful
clusters of gas, on and around the facade, columns, portico, &c.--everything so white, so marbly
pure and dazzling, yet soft--the White House of future poems, and of dreams and dramas, there
in the soft and copious moon--the gorgeous front, in the trees, under the lustrous flooding
moon, full of realty, full of illusion--the forms of the trees, leafless, silent, in trunk
and myriad--angles of branches, under the stars and sky--the White House of the land, and of
beauty and night--sentries at the gates, and by the portico, silent, pacing there in blue overcoats--stopping
you not at all, but eyeing you with sharp eyes, whichever way you move.

AN ARMY HOSPITAL WARD

Let me specialize a visit I made to the collection of barrack-like one-story edifices, Campbell
hospital, out on the flats, at the end of the then horse railway route, on Seventh street.
There is a long building appropriated to each ward. Let us go into ward 6. It contains, to-day,
I should judge, eighty or a hundred patients, half sick, half wounded. The edifice is nothing
but boards, well whitewash'd inside, and the usual slender-framed iron bedsteads, narrow and
plain. You walk down the central passage, with a row on either side, their feet towards you,
and their heads to the wall. There are fires in large stoves, and the prevailing white of the
walls is reliev'd by some ornaments, stars, circles, &c., made of evergreens. The view of the
whole edifice and occupants can be taken at once, for there is no partition. You may hear groans
or other sounds of unendurable suffering from two or three of the cots, but in the main there
is quiet--almost a painful absence of demonstration; but the pallid face, the dull'd eye, and
the moisture of the lip, are demonstration enough. Most of these sick or hurt are evidently
young fellows from the country, farmers' sons, and such like. Look at the fine large frames,
the bright and broad countenances, and the many yet lingering proofs of strong constitution
and physique. Look at the patient and mute manner of our American wounded as they lie in such
a sad collection; representatives from all New England, and from New York, and New Jersey,
and Pennsylvania--indeed from all the States and all the cities--largely from the west. Most
of them are entirely without friends or acquaintances here--no familiar face, and hardly a
word of judicious sympathy or cheer, through their sometimes long and tedious sickness, or
the pangs of aggravated wounds.

A CONNECTICUT CASE

This young man in bed 25 is H. D. B. of the 27th Connecticut, company B. His folks live at
Northford, near New Haven. Though not more than twenty-one, or thereabouts, he has knock'd
much around the world, on sea and land, and has seen some fighting on both. When I first saw
him he was very sick, with no appetite. He declined offers of money--said he did not need anything.
As I was quite anxious to do something, he confess'd that he had a hankering for a good home-made
rice pudding--thought he could relish it better than anything. At this time his stomach was
very weak. (The doctor, whom I consulted, said nourishment would do him more good than anything;
but things in the hospital, though better than usual, revolted him.) I soon procured B. his
rice pudding. A Washington lady, (Mrs. O'C.), hearing his wish, made the pudding herself, and
I took it up to him the next day. He subsequently told me he lived upon it for three or four
days. This B. is a good sample of the American eastern young man--the typical Yankee. I took
a fancy to him, and gave him a nice pipe for a keepsake. He receiv'd afterwards a box of things
from home, and nothing would do but I must take dinner with him, which I did, and a very good
one it was.

TWO BROOKLYN BOYS

Here in this same ward are two young men from Brooklyn, members of the 51st New York. I had
known both the two as young lads at home, so they seem near to me. One of them, J. L., lies
there with an amputated arm, the stump healing pretty well. (I saw him lying on the ground
at Fredericksburgh last December, all bloody, just after the arm was taken off. He was very
phlegmatic about it, munching away at a cracker in the remaining hand--made no fuss.) He will
recover, and thinks and talks yet of meeting Johnny Rebs.

A SECESH BRAVE

The grand soldiers are not comprised in those of one side, any more than the other. Here is
a sample of an unknown southerner, a lad of seventeen. At the War department, a few days ago,
I witness'd a presentation of captured flags to the Secretary. Among others a soldier named
Gant, of the 104th Ohio volunteers, presented a rebel battle-flag, which one of the officers
stated to me was borne to the mouth of our cannon and planted there by a boy but seventeen
years of age, who actually endeavor'd to stop the muzzle of the gun with fence-rails. He was
kill'd in the effort, and the flag-staff was sever'd by a shot from one of our men.

THE WOUNDED FROM CHANCELLORSVILLE

May '63.--As I write this, the wounded have begun to arrive from Hooker's command from bloody
Chancellorsville. I was down among the first arrivals. The men in charge told me the bad cases
were yet to come. If that is so I pity them, for these are bad enough. You ought to see the
scene of the wounded arriving at the landing here at the foot of Sixth street, at night. Two
boat loads came about half-past seven last night. A little after eight it rain'd a long and
violent shower. The pale, helpless soldiers had been debark'd, and lay around on the wharf
and neighborhood anywhere. The rain was, probably, grateful to them; at any rate they were
exposed to it. The few torches light up the spectacle. All around--on the wharf, on the ground,
out on side places--the men are lying on blankets, old quilts, &c., with bloody rags bound
round heads, arms, and legs. The attendants are few, and at night few outsiders also--only
a few hard-work'd transportation men and drivers. (The wounded are getting to be common, and
people grow callous.) The men, whatever their condition, lie there, and patiently wait till
their turn comes to be taken up. Near by, the ambulances are now arriving in clusters, and
one after another is call'd to back up and take its load. Extreme cases are sent off on stretchers.
The men generally make little or no ado, whatever their sufferings. A few groans that cannot
be suppress'd, and occasionally a scream of pain as they lift a man into the ambulance. To-day,
as I write, hundreds more are expected, and to-morrow and the next day more, and so on for
many days. Quite often they arrive at the rate of 1000 a day.

A NIGHT BATTLE OVER A WEEK SINCE

May 12.--There was part of the late battle at Chancellorsville, (second Fredericksburgh,) a
little over a week ago, Saturday, Saturday night and Sunday, under Gen. Joe Hooker, I would
like to give just a glimpse of--(a moment's look in a terrible storm at sea--of which a few
suggestions are enough, and full details impossible.) The fighting had been very hot during
the day, and after an intermission the latter part, was resumed at night, and kept up with
furious energy till 3 o'clock in the morning. That afternoon (Saturday) an attack sudden and
strong by Stonewall Jackson had gain'd a great advantage to the southern army, and broken our
lines, entering us like a wedge, and leaving things in that position at dark. But Hooker at
11 at night made a desperate push, drove the secesh forces back, restored his original lines,
and resumed his plans. This night scrimmage was very exciting, and afforded countless strange
and fearful pictures. The fighting had been general both at Chancellorsville and northeast
at Fredericksburgh. (We hear of some poor fighting, episodes, skedaddling on our part. I think
not of it. I think of the fierce bravery, the general rule.) One corps, the 6th, Sedgewick's,
fights four dashing and bloody battles in thirty-six hours, retreating in great jeopardy, losing
largely but maintaining itself, fighting with the sternest desperation under all circumstances,
getting over the Rappahannock only by the skin of its teeth, yet getting over. It lost many,
many brave men, yet it took vengeance, ample vengeance.

But it was the tug of Saturday evening, and through the night and Sunday morning, I wanted
to make a special note of. It was largely in the woods, and quite a general engagement. The
night was very pleasant, at times the moon shining out full and clear, all Nature so calm in
itself, the early summer grass so rich, and foliage of the trees--yet there the battle raging,
and many good fellows lying helpless, with new accessions to them, and every minute amid the
rattle of muskets and crash of cannon, (for there was an artillery contest too,) the red life-blood
oozing out from heads or trunks or limbs upon that green and dew-cool grass. Patches of the
woods take fire, and several of the wounded, unable to move, are consumed--quite large spaces
are swept over, burning the dead also--some of the men have their hair and beards singed--some,
burns on their faces and hands--others holes burnt in their clothing. The flashes of fire from
the cannon, the quick flaring flames and smoke, and the immense roar--the musketry so general,
the light nearly bright enough for each side to see the other--the crashing, tramping of men--the
yelling--close quarters--we hear the secesh yells--our men cheer loudly back, especially if
Hooker is in sight--hand to hand conflicts, each side stands up to it, brave, determin'd as
demons, they often charge upon us--a thousand deeds are done worth to write newer greater poems
on--and still the woods on fire--still many are not only scorch'd--too many, unable to move,
are burned to death.

Then the camps of the wounded--O heavens, what scene is this?--is this indeed humanity--these
butchers' shambles? There are several of them. There they lie, in the largest, in an open space
in the woods, from 200 to 300 poor fellows--the groans and screams--the odor of blood, mixed
with the fresh scent of the night, the grass, the trees--that slaughter-house! O well is it
their mothers, their sisters cannot see them--cannot conceive, and never conceiv'd, these things.
One man is shot by a shell, both in the arm and leg--both are amputated--there lie the rejected
members. Some have their legs blown off--some bullets through the breast--some indescribably
horrid wounds in the face or head, all mutilated, sickening, torn, gouged out--some in the
abdomen--some mere boys--many rebels, badly hurt--they take their regular turns with the rest,
just the same as any--the surgeons use them just the same. Such is the camp of the wounded--such
a fragment, a reflection afar off of the bloody scene--while all over the clear, large moon
comes out at times softly, quietly shining. Amid the woods, that scene of flitting souls--amid
the crack and crash and yelling sounds--the impalpable perfume of the woods--and yet the pungent,
stifling smoke--the radiance of the moon, looking from heaven at intervals so placid--the sky
so heavenly the clear-obscure up there, those buoyant upper oceans--a few large placid stars
beyond, coming silently and languidly out, and then disappearing--the melancholy, draperied
night above, around. And there, upon the roads, the fields, and in those woods, that contest,
never one more desperate in any age or land--both parties now in force--masses--no fancy battle,
no semi-play, but fierce and savage demons fighting there--courage and scorn of death the rule,
exceptions almost none.

What history, I say, can ever give--for who can know--the mad, determin'd tussle of the armies,
in all their separate large and little squads--as this--each steep'd from crown to toe in desperate,
mortal purports? Who know the conflict, hand-to-hand--the many conflicts in the dark, those
shadowy-tangled, flashing moonbeam'd woods--the writhing groups and squads--the cries, the
din, the cracking guns and pistols--the distant cannon--the cheers and calls and threats and
awful music of the oaths--the indescribable mix--the officers' orders, persuasions, encouragements--the
devils fully rous'd in human hearts--the strong shout, Charge, men, charge--the flash of the
naked sword, and rolling flame and smoke? And still the broken, clear and clouded heaven--and
still again the moonlight pouring silvery soft its radiant patches over all. Who paint the
scene, the sudden partial panic of the afternoon, at dusk? Who paint the irrepressible advance
of the second division of the Third corps, under Hooker himself, suddenly order'd up--those
rapid-filing phantoms through the woods? Who show what moves there in the shadows, fluid and
firm--to save, (and it did save,) the army's name, perhaps the nation? as there the veterans
hold the field. (Brave Berry falls not yet--but death has mark'd him--soon he falls.)

UNNAMED REMAINS THE BRAVEST SOLDIER

Of scenes like these, I say, who writes--whoe'er can write the story? Of many a score--aye,
thousands, north and south, of unwrit heroes, unknown heroisms, incredible, impromptu, first-class
desperations--who tells? No history ever--no poem sings, no music sounds, those bravest men
of all--those deeds. No formal general's report, nor book in the library, norcolumn in the
paper, embalms the bravest, north or south, east or west. Unnamed, unknown, remain, and still
remain, the bravest soldiers. Our manliest--our boys--our hardy darlings; no picture gives
them. Likely, the typic one of them (standing, no doubt, for hundreds, thousands,) crawls aside
to some bush-clump, or ferny tuft, on receiving his death-shot--there sheltering a little while,
soaking roots, grass and soil, with red blood--the battle advances, retreats, flits from the
scene, sweeps by--and there, haply with pain and suffering (yet less, far less, than is supposed,)
the last lethargy winds like a serpent round him--the eyes glaze in death----none recks--perhaps
the burial-squads, in truce, a week afterwards, search not the secluded spot--and there, at
last, the Bravest Soldier crumbles in mother earth, unburied and unknown.

SOME SPECIMEN CASES

June 18th.--In one of the hospitals I find Thomas Haley, company M, 4th New York cavalry--a
regular Irish boy, a fine specimen of youthful physical manliness--shot through the lungs--inevitably
dying--came over to this country from Ireland to enlist--has not a single friend or acquaintance
here--is sleeping soundly at this moment, (but it is the sleep of death)--has a bullet-hole
straight through the lung. I saw Tom when first brought here, three days since, and didn't
suppose he could live twelve hours--(yet he looks well enough in the face to a casual observer.)
He lies there with his frame exposed above the waist, all naked, for coolness, a fine built
man, the tan not yet bleach'd from his cheeks and neck. It is useless to talk to him, as with
his sad hurt, and the stimulants they give him, and the utter strangeness of every object,
face, furniture, &c., the poor fellow, even when awake, is like some frighten'd, shy animal.
Much of the time he sleeps, or half sleeps.

W.H.E., Co. F, 2nd N.Y.--His disease is pneumonia. He lay sick at the wretched hospital below
Aquia creek, for seven or eight days before brought here. He was detail'd from his regiment
to go there and help as nurse, but was soon taken down himself. Is an elderly, sallow-faced,
rather gaunt, gray-hair'd man, a widower, with children. He express'd a great desire for good,
strong green tea. An excellent lady, Mrs. W., of Washington, soon sent him a package; also
a small sum of money. The doctor said give him the tea at pleasure; it lay on the table by
his side, and he used it every day. He slept a great deal; could not talk much, as he grew
deaf. Occupied bed 15, ward I, Armory. (The same lady above, Mrs. W., sent the men a large
package of tobacco.)

J. G. lies in bed 52, ward I; is of company B, 7th Pennsylvania. I gave him a small sum of
money, some tobacco, and envelopes. To a man adjoining also gave twenty-five cents; he flush'd
in the face when I offer'd it--refused at first, but as I found he had not a cent, and was
very fond of having the daily papers to read, I prest it on him. He was evidently very grateful,
but said little.

J.T.L., of company F, 9th New Hampshire, lies in bed 37, ward I. Is very fond of tobacco. I
furnish him some; also with a little money. Has gangrene of the feet; a pretty bad case; will
surely have to lose three toes. Is a regular specimen of an old-fashion'd, rude, hearty, New
England countryman, impressing me with his likeness to that celebrated singed cat, who was
better than she look'd.

Bed 3, ward E, Armory, has a great hankering for pickles, something pungent. After consulting
the doctor, I gave him a small bottle of horse-radish; also some apples; also a book. Some
of the nurses are excellent. The woman-nurse in this ward I like very much. (Mrs. Wright--a
year afterwards I found her in Mansion house hospital, Alexandria--she is a perfect nurse.)

In one bed a young man, Marcus Small, company K, 7th Maine--sick with dysentery and typhoid
fever--pretty critical case--I talk with him often--he thinks he will die--looks like it indeed.
I write a letter for him home to East Livermore, Maine--I let him talk to me a little, but
not much, advise him to keep very quiet--do most of the talking myself--stay quite a while
with him, as he holds on to my hand--talk to him in a cheering, but slow, low and measured
manner--talk about his furlough, and going home as soon as he is able to travel.

Thomas Lindly, 1st Pennsylvania cavalry, shot very badly through the foot--poor young man,
he suffers horridly, has to be constantly dosed with morphine, his face ashy and glazed, bright
young eyes--I give him a large handsome apple, lay it in sight, tell him to have it roasted
in the morning, as he generally feels easier then, and can eat a little breakfast. I write
two letters for him.

Opposite, an old Quaker lady sits by the side of her son, Amer Moore, 2d U. S. artillery--shot
in the head two weeks since, very low, quite rational--from hips down paralyzed--he will surely
die. I speak a very few words to him every day and evening--he answers pleasantly--wants nothing--(he
told me soon after he came about his home affairs, his mother had been an invalid, and he fear'd
to let her know his condition.) He died soon after she came.

MY PREPARATIONS FOR VISITS

In my visits to the hospitals I found it was in the simple matter of personal presence, and
emanating ordinary cheer and magnetism, that I succeeded and help'd more than by medical nursing,
or delicacies, or gifts of money, or anything else. During the war I possess'd the perfection
of physical health. My habit, when practicable, was to prepare for starting out on one of those
daily or nightly tours of from a couple to four or five hours, by fortifying myself with previous
rest, the bath, clean clothes, a good meal, and as cheerful an appearance as possible.

AMBULANCE PROCESSIONS

June 23, Sundown.--As I sit writing this paragraph I see a train of about thirty huge four-horse
wagons, used as ambulances, fill'd with wounded, passing up Fourteenth street, on their way,
probably, to Columbian, Carver, and Mount Pleasant hospitals. This is the way the men come
in now, seldom in small numbers, but almost always in these long, sad processions. Through
the past winter, while our army lay opposite Fredericksburg, the like strings of ambulances
were of frequent occurrence along Seventh street, passing slowly up from the steamboat wharf,
with loads from Aquia creek.

BAD WOUNDS--THE YOUNG

The soldiers are nearly all young men, and far more American than is generally supposed--I
should say nine-tenths are native-born. Among the arrivals from Chancellorsville I find a large
proportion of Ohio, Indiana, and Illinois men. As usual, there are all sorts of wounds. Some
of the men fearfully burnt from the explosions of artillery caissons. One ward has a long row
of officers, some with ugly hurts. Yesterday was perhaps worse than usual. Amputations are
going on--the attendants are dressing wounds. As you pass by, you must be on your guard where
you look. I saw the other day a gentlemen, a visitor apparently from curiosity, in one of the
wards, stop and turn a moment to look at an awful wound they were probing. He turn'd pale,
and in a moment more he had fainted away and fallen to the floor.

THE MOST INSPIRITING OF ALL WAR'S SHOWS

June 29.--Just before sundown this evening a very large cavalry force went by--a fine sight.
The men evidently had seen service. First came a mounted band of sixteen bugles, drums and
cymbals, playing wild martial tunes--made my heart jump. Then the principal officers, then
company after company, with their officers at their heads, making of course the main part of
the cavalcade; then a long train of men with led horses, lots of mounted negroes with special
horses--and a long string of baggage-wagons, each drawn by four horses--and then a motley rear
guard.

It was a pronouncedly warlike and gay show; the sabres clank'd, the men look'd young and healthy
and strong; the electric tramping of so many horses on the hard road, and the gallant bearing,
fine seat, and bright faced appearance of a thousand and more handsome young American men,
were so good to see. An hour later another troop went by, smaller in numbers, perhaps three
hundred men. They too look'd like serviceable men, campaigners used to field and fight.

July 3.--This forenoon, for more than an hour, again long strings of cavalry, several regiments,
very fine men and horses, four or five abreast. I saw them in Fourteenth street, coming in
town from north. Several hundred extra horses, some of the mares with colts, trotting along.
(Appear'd to be a number of prisoners too.) How inspiriting always the cavalry regiments. Our
men are generally well mounted, feel good, are young, gay on the saddle, their blankets in
a roll behind them, their sabres clanking at their sides. This noise and movement and the tramp
of many horses' hoofs has a curious effect upon one. The bugles play--presently you hear them
afar off, deaden'd, mix'd with other noises. Then just as they had all pass'd, a string of
ambulances commenc'd from the other way, moving up Fourteenth street north, slowly wending
along, bearing a large lot of wounded to the hospitals.

BATTLE OF GETTYSBURG

July 4th.--The weather to-day, upon the whole, is very fine, warm, but from a smart rain last
night, fresh enough, and no dust, which is a great relief for this city. I saw the parade about
noon, Pennsylvania avenue, from Fifteenth street down toward the capitol. There were three
regiments of infantry, (I suppose the ones doing patrol duty here,) two or three societies
of Odd Fellows, a lot of children in barouches, and a squad of policemen. (A useless imposition
upon the soldiers--they have work enough on their backs without piling the like of this.)

As I went down the Avenue, saw a big flaring placard on the bulletin board of a newspaper office,
announcing "Glorious Victory for the Union Army!" Meade had fought Lee at Gettysburg, Pennsylvania,
yesterday and day before, and repuls'd him most signally, taken 3,000 prisoners, &c. (I afterwards
saw Meade's despatch, very modest, and a sort of order of the day from the President himself,
quite religious, giving thanks to the Supreme, and calling on the people to do the same.)

I walk'd on to Armory hospital--took along with me several bottles of blackberry and cherry
syrup, good and strong, but innocent. Went through several of the wards, announc'd to the soldiers
the news from Meade, and gave them all a good drink of the syrups with ice water, quite refreshing--prepar'd
it all myself, and serv'd it around. Meanwhile the Washington bells are ringing their sun-down
peals for Fourth of July, and the usual fusilades of boys' pistols, crackers, and guns.

A CAVALRY CAMP

I am writing this, nearly sundown, watching a cavalry company (acting Signal service,) just
come in through a shower, making their night's camp ready on some broad, vacant ground, a sort
of hill, in full view opposite my window. There are the men in their yellow-striped jackets.
All are dismounted; the freed horses stand with drooping heads and wet sides; they are to be
led off presently in groups, to water. The little wall-tents and shelter tents spring up quickly.
I see the fires already blazing, and pots and kettles over them. Some among the men are driving
in tent-poles, wielding their axes with strong, slow blows. I see great huddles of horses,
bundles of hay, groups of men (some with unbuckled sabres yet on their sides,) a few officers,
piles of wood, the flames of the fires, saddles, harness, &c. The smoke streams upward, additional
men arrive and dismount--some drive in stakes, and tie their horses to them; some go with buckets
for water, some are chopping wood, and so on.

July 6th.--A steady rain, dark and thick and warm. A train of six-mule wagons has just pass'd
bearing pontoons, great square-end flatboats, and the heavy planking for overlaying them. We
hear that the Potomac above here is flooded, and are wondering whether Lee will be able to
get back across again, or whether Meade will indeed break him to pieces. The cavalry camp on
the hill is a ceaseless field of observation for me. Some of the men are cleaning their sabres
(pleasant to-day,) some brushing boots, some laying off, reading, writing--some cooking, some
sleeping. On long temporary cross-sticks back of the tents are cavalry accoutrements--blankets
and overcoats are hung out to air--there are the squads of horses tether'd, feeding, continually
stamping and whisking their tails to keep off flies. I sit long in my third story window and
look at the scene--a hundred little things going on--peculiar objects connected with the camp
that could not be described, any one of them justly, without much minute drawing and coloring
in words.

A NEW YORK SOLDIER

This afternoon, July 22d, I have spent a long time with Oscar F. Wilber, company G, 154th New
York, low with chronic diarrhoea, and a bad wound also. He asked me to read him a chapter in
the New Testament. I complied, and ask'd him what I should read. He said, "Make your own choice."
I open'd at the close of one of the first books of the evangelists, and read the chapters describing
the latter hours of Christ, and the scenes at the crucifixion. The poor, wasted young man ask'd
me to read the following chapter also, how Christ rose again. He said, "It is my chief reliance."
He talk'd of death, and said he did not fear it. I said, "Why, Oscar, don't you think you will
get well?" He said, "I may, but it is not probable." He spoke calmly of his condition. The
wound was very bad, it discharg'd much. Then the diarrhoea had prostrated him, and I felt that
he was even then the same as dying. He behaved very manly and affectionate. The kiss I gave
him as I was about leaving he return'd fourfold. He gave me his mother's address, Mrs. Sally
D. Wilber, Alleghany pest-office, Cattaraugus county, N. Y. I had several such interviews with
him. He died a few days after the one just described.

HOME-MADE MUSIC

August 8th.--To-night, as I was trying to keep cool, sitting by a wounded soldier in Armory-square,
I was attracted by some pleasant singing in an adjoining ward. As my soldier was asleep, I
left him, and entering the ward where the music was, I walk'd halfway down and took a seat
by the cot of a young Brooklyn friend, S. R., badly wounded in the hand at Chancellorsville,
and who has suffer'd much, but at that moment in the evening was wide awake and comparatively
easy. He had turn'd over on his left side to get a better view of the singers, but the mosquito-curtains
of the adjoining cots obstructed the sight. I stept round and loop'd them all up, so that he
had a clear show, and then sat down again by him, and look'd and listen'd. The principal singer
was a young lady-nurse of one of the wards, accompanying on a melodeon, and join'd by the lady-nurses
of other wards. They sat there, making a charming group, with their handsome, healthy faces,
and standing up a little behind them were some ten or fifteen of the convalescent soldiers,
young men, nurses, &c., with books in their hands, singing. Of course it was not such a performance
as the great soloists at the New York opera house take a hand in, yet I am not sure but I receiv'd
as much pleasure under the circumstances, sitting there, as I have had from the best Italian
compositions, express'd by world-famous performers. The men lying up and down the hospital,
in their cots, (some badly wounded--some never to rise thence,) the cots themselves, with their
drapery of white curtains, and the shadows down the lower and upper parts of the ward; then
the silence of the men, and the attitudes they took--the whole was a sight to look around upon
again and again. And there sweetly rose those voices up to the high, whitewash'd wooden roof,
and pleasantly the roof sent it all back again. They sang very well, mostly quaint old songs
and declamatory hymns, to fitting tunes. Here, for instance:

    My days are swiftly gliding by, and I a pilgrim stranger,
    Would not detain them as they fly, those hours of toil and danger;
    For O we stand on Jordan's strand, our friends are passing over,
    And just before, the shining shore we may almost discover.

ABRAHAM LINCOLN

August 12th.--I see the President almost every day, as I happen to live where he passes to
or from his lodgings out of town. He never sleeps at the White House during the hot season,
but has quarters at a healthy location some three miles north of the city, the Soldiers' home,
a United States military establishment. I saw him this morning about 8 1/2 coming in to business,
riding on Vermont avenue, near L street. He always has a company of twenty-five or thirty cavalry,
with sabres drawn and held upright over their shoulders. They say this guard was against his
personal wish, but he let his counselors have their way. A lieutenant, with yellow straps,
rides at his left, and following behind, two by two, come the cavalry men, in their yellow-striped
jackets. They are generally going at a slow trot, as that is the pace set them by the one they
wait upon. The cavalry always accompany him, with drawn sabres. Often I notice as he goes out
evenings--and sometimes in the morning, when he returns early--he turns off and halts at the
large and handsome residence of the Secretary of War, on K street, and holds conference there.
If in his barouche, I can see from my window he does not alight, but sits in his vehicle, and
Mr. Stanton comes out to attend him. Sometimes one of his sons, a boy of ten or twelve, accompanies
him, riding at his right on a pony. Earlier in the summer I occasionally saw the President
and his wife, toward the latter part of the afternoon, out in a barouche, on a pleasure ride
through the city. Mrs. Lincoln was dress'd in complete black, with a long crape veil. The equipage
is of the plainest kind, only two horses, and they nothing extra. They pass'd me once very
close, and I saw the President in the face fully, as they were moving slowly, and his look,
though abstracted, happen'd to be directed steadily in my eye.

HEATED TERM

There has lately been much suffering here from heat; we have had it upon us now eleven days.
I go around with an umbrella and a fan. I saw two cases of sun-stroke yesterday, one in Pennsylvania
avenue, and another in Seventh street. The City railroad company loses some horses every day.
Yet Washington is having a livelier August, and is probably putting in a more energetic and
satisfactory summer, than ever before during its existence. There is probably more human electricity,
more population to make it, more business, more light-heartedness, than ever before. The armies
that swiftly circumambiated from Fredericksburgh--march'd, struggled, fought, had out their
mighty clinch and hurl at Gettysburg--wheel'd, circumambiated again, return'd to their ways,
touching us not, either at their going or coming. And Washington feels that she has pass'd
the worst; perhaps feels that she is henceforth mistress. So here she sits with her surrounding
hills spotted with guns, and is conscious of a character and identity different from what it
was five or six short weeks ago, and very considerably pleasanter and prouder.

SOLDIERS AND TALKS

Soldiers, soldiers, soldiers, you meet everywhere about the city, often superb-looking men,
though invalids dress'd in worn uniforms, and carrying canes or crutches. I often have talks
with them, occasionally quite long and interesting. One, for instance, will have been all through
the peninsula under McClellan--narrates to me the fights, the marches, the strange, quick changes
of that eventful campaign, and gives glimpses of many things untold in any official reports
or books or journals. These, indeed, are the things that are genuine and precious. The man
was there, has been out two years, has been through a dozen fights, the superfluous flesh of
talking is long work'd off him, and he gives me little but the hard meat and sinew. I find
it refreshing, these hardy, bright, intuitive, American young men, (experienc'd soldiers with
all their youth.) The vocal play and significance moves one more than books. Then there hangs
something majestic about a man who has borne his part in battles, especially if he is very
quiet regarding it when you desire him to unbosom. I am continually lost at the absence of
blowing and blowers among these old-young American militaires. I have found some man or other
who has been in every battle since the war began, and have talk'd with them about each one
in every part of the United States, and many of the engagements on the rivers and harbors too.
I find men here from every State in the Union, without exception. (There are more Southerners,
especially border State men, in the Union army than is generally supposed. [A]) I now doubt
whether one can get a fair idea of what this war practically is, or what genuine America is,
and her character, without some such experience as this I am having.

DEATH OF A WISCONSIN OFFICER

Another characteristic scene of that dark and bloody 1863, from notes of my visit to Armory-square
hospital, one hot but pleasant summer day. In ward H we approach the cot of a young lieutenant
of one of the Wisconsin regiments. Tread the bare board floor lightly here, for the pain and
panting of death are in this cot. I saw the lieutenant when he was first brought here from
Chancellorsville, and have been with him occasionally from day to day and night to night. He
had been getting along pretty well till night before last, when a sudden hemorrhage that could
not be stopt came upon him, and to-day it still continues at intervals. Notice that water-pail
by the side of the bed, with a quantity of blood and bloody pieces of muslin, nearly full;
that tells the story. The poor young man is struggling painfully for breath, his great dark
eyes with a glaze already upon them, and the choking faint but audible in his throat. An attendant
sits by him, and will not leave him till the last; yet little or nothing can be done. He will
die here in an hour or two, without the presence of kith or kin. Meantime the ordinary chat
and business of[6] the ward a little way off goes on indifferently. Some of the inmates are
laughing and joking, others are playing checkers or cards, others are reading, &c.

I have noticed through most of the hospitals that as long as there is any chance for a man,
no matter how bad he may be, the surgeon and nurses work hard, sometimes with curious tenacity,
for his life, doing everything, and keeping somebody by him to execute the doctor's orders,
and minister to him every minute night and day. See that screen there. As you advance through
the dusk of early candle-light, a nurse will step forth on tip-toe, and silently but imperiously
forbid you to make any noise, or perhaps to come near at all. Some soldier's life is flickering
there, suspended between recovery and death. Perhaps at this moment the exhausted frame has
just fallen into a light sleep that a step might shake. You must retire. The neighboring patients
must move in their stocking feet. I have been several times struck with such mark'd efforts--everything
bent to save a life from the very grip of the destroyer. But when that grip is once firmly
fix'd, leaving no hope or chance at all, the surgeon abandons the patient. If it is a case
where stimulus is any relief, the nurse gives milk-punch or brandy, or whatever is wanted,
ad libitum. There is no fuss made. Not a bit of sentimentalism or whining have I seen about
a single death-bed in hospital or on the field, but generally impassive indifference. All is
over, as far as any efforts can avail; it is useless to expend emotions or labors. While there
is a prospect they strive hard--at least most surgeons do; but death certain and evident, they
yield the field.

Note:

[6]MR. GARFIELD (In the House of Representatives, April 15,'79.) "Do gentlemen know that (leaving
out all the border States) there were fifty regiments and seven companies of white men in our
army fighting for the Union from the States that went into rebellion? Do they know that from
the single State of Kentucky more Union soldiers fought under our flag than Napoleon took into
the battle of Waterloo? more than Wellington took with all the allied armies against Napoleon?
Do they remember that 186,000 color'd men fought under our flag against the rebellion and for
the Union, and that of that number 90,000 were from the States which went into rebellion?"

HOSPITALS ENSEMBLE

Aug., Sept., and Oct., '63.--I am in the habit of going to all, and to Fairfax seminary, Alexandria,
and over Long bridge to the great Convalescent camp. The journals publish a regular directory
of them --a long list. As a specimen of almost any one of the larger of these hospitals, fancy
to yourself a space of three to twenty acres of ground, on which are group'd ten or twelve
very large wooden barracks, with, perhaps, a dozen or twenty, and sometimes more than that
number, small buildings, capable altogether of accommodating from five hundred to a thousand
or fifteen hundred persons. Sometimes these wooden barracks or wards, each of them perhaps
from a hundred to a hundred and fifty feet long, are rang'd in a straight row, evenly fronting
the street; others are plann'd so as to form an immense V; and others again are ranged around
a hollow square. They make altogether a huge cluster, with the additional tents, extra wards
for contagious diseases, guard-houses, sutler's stores, chaplain's house; in the middle will
probably be an edifice devoted to the offices of the surgeon in charge and the ward surgeons,
principal attaches, clerks, &c. The wards are either letter'd alphabetically, ward G, ward
K, or else numerically, 1, 2, 3, &c. Each has its ward surgeon and corps of nurses. Of course,
there is, in the aggregate, quite a muster of employes, and over all the surgeon in charge.
Here in Washington, when these army hospitals are all fill'd, (as they have been already several
times,) they contain a population more numerous in itself than the whole of the Washington
of ten or fifteen years ago. Within sight of the capitol, as I write, are some thirty or forty
such collections, at times holding from fifty to seventy thousand men. Looking from any eminence
and studying the topography in my rambles, I use them as landmarks. Through the rich August
verdure of the trees, see that white group of buildings off yonder in the outskirts; then another
cluster half a mile to the left of the first; then another a mile to the right, and another
a mile beyond, and still another between us and the first. Indeed, we can hardly look in any
direction but these clusters are dotting the landscape and environs. That little town, as you
might suppose it, off there on the brow of a hill, is indeed a town, but of wounds, sickness,
and death. It is Finley hospital, northeast of the city, on Kendall green, as it used to be
call'd. That other is Campbell hospital. Both are large establishments. I have known these
two alone to have from two thousand to twenty-five hundred inmates. Then there is Carver hospital,
larger still, a wall'd and military city regularly laid out, and guarded by squads of sentries.
Again, off east, Lincoln hospital, a still larger one; and half a mile further Emory hospital.
Still sweeping the eye around down the river toward Alexandria, we see, to the right, the locality
where the Convalescent camp stands, with its five, eight, or sometimes ten thousand inmates.
Even all these are but a portion. The Harewood, Mount Pleasant, Armory-square, Judiciary hospitals,
are some of the rest, and all large collections.

A SILENT NIGHT RAMBLE

October 20th.--To-night, after leaving the hospital at 10 o'clock, (I had been on self-imposed
duty some five hours, pretty closely confined,) I wander'd a long time around Washington. The
night was sweet, very clear, sufficiently cool, a voluptuous halfmoon, slightly golden, the
space near it of a transparent blue-gray tinge. I walk'd up Pennsylvania avenue, and then to
Seventh street, and a long while around the Patent-office. Somehow it look'd rebukefully strong,
majestic, there in the delicate moonlight. The sky, the planets, the constellations all so
bright, so calm, so expressively silent, so soothing, after those hospital scenes. I wander'd
to and fro till the moist moon set, long after midnight.

SPIRITUAL CHARACTERS AMONG THE SOLDIERS

Every now and then, in hospital or camp, there are beings I meet--specimens of unworldliness,
disinterestedness, and animal purity and heroism--perhaps some unconscious Indianian, or from
Ohio or Tennessee--on whose birth the calmness of heaven seems to have descended, and whose
gradual growing up, whatever the circumstances of work-life or change, or hardship, or small
or no education that attended it, the power of a strange spiritual sweetness, fibre and inward
health, have also attended. Something veil'd and abstracted is often a part of the manners
of these beings. I have met them, I say, not seldom in the army, in camp, and in the hospitals.
The Western regiments contain many of them. They are often young men, obeying the events and
occasions about them, marching, soldiering, righting, foraging, cooking, working on farms or
at some trade before the war--unaware of their own nature, (as to that, who is aware of his
own nature?) their companions only understanding that they are different from the rest, more
silent, "something odd about them," and apt to go off and meditate and muse in solitude.

CATTLE DROVES ABOUT WASHINGTON

Among other sights are immense droves of cattle with their drivers, passing through the streets
of the city. Some of the men have a way of leading the cattle by a peculiar call, a wild, pensive
hoot, quite musical, prolong'd, indescribable, sounding something between the cooing of a pigeon
and the hoot of an owl. I like to stand and look at the sight of one of these immense droves--a
little way off--(as the dust is great.) There are always men on horseback, cracking their whips
and shouting--the cattle low--some obstinate ox or steer attempts to escape--then a lively
scene--the mounted men, always excellent riders and on good horses, dash after the recusant,
and wheel and turn--a dozen mounted drovers, their great slouch'd, broad-brim'd hats, very
picturesque--another dozen on foot--everybody cover'd with dust--long goads in their hands--an
immense drove of perhaps 1000 cattle--the shouting, hooting, movement, &c.

HOSPITAL PERPLEXITY

To add to other troubles, amid the confusion of this great army of sick, it is almost impossible
for a stranger to find any friend or relative, unless he has the patient's specific address
to start upon. Besides the directory printed in the newspapers here, there are one or two general
directories of the hospitals kept at provost's head-quarters, but they are nothing like complete;
they are never up to date, and, as things are, with the daily streams of coming and going and
changing, cannot be. I have known cases, for instance such as a farmer coming here from northern
New York to find a wounded brother, faithfully hunting round for a week, and then compell'd
to leave and go home without getting any trace of him. When he got home he found a letter from
the brother giving the right address.

DOWN AT THE FRONT

CULPEPPER, VA., Feb. '64.--Here I am FRONT pretty well down toward the extreme front. Three
or four days ago General S., who is now in chief command, (I believe Meade is absent, sick,)
moved a strong force southward from camp as if intending business. They went to the Rapidan;
there has since been some manoeuvering and a little fighting, but nothing of consequence. The
telegraphic accounts given Monday morning last, make entirely too much of it, I should say.
What General S. intended we here know not, but we trust in that competent commander. We were
somewhat excited, (but not so very much either,) on Sunday, during the day and night, as orders
were sent out to pack up and harness, and be ready to evacuate, to fall back towards Washington.
But I was very sleepy and went to bed. Some tremendous shouts arousing me during the night,
I went forth and found it was from the men above mention'd, who were returning. I talk'd with
some of the men; as usual I found them full of gayety, endurance, and many fine little outshows,
the signs of the most excellent good manliness of the world. It was a curious sight to see
those shadowy columns moving through the night. I stood unobserv'd in the darkness and watch'd
them long. The mud was very deep. The men had their usual burdens, overcoats, knapsacks, guns
and blankets. Along and along they filed by me, with often a laugh, a song, a cheerful word,
but never once a murmur. It may have been odd, but I never before so realized the majesty and
reality of the American people en masse. It fell upon me like a great awe. The strong ranks
moved neither fast nor slow. They had march'd seven or eight miles already through the slipping
unctuous mud. The brave First corps stopt here. The equally brave Third corps moved on to Brandy
station. The famous Brooklyn 14th are here, guarding the town. You see their red legs actively
moving everywhere. Then they have a theatre of their own here. They give musical performances,
nearly everything done capitally. Of course the audience is a jam. It is good sport to attend
one of these entertainments of the 14th. I like to look around at the soldiers, and the general
collection in front of the curtain, more than the scene on the stage.

PAYING THE BOUNTIES

One of the things to note here now is the arrival of the paymaster with his strong box, and
the payment of bounties to veterans re-enlisting. Major H. is here to-day, with a small mountain
of greenbacks, rejoicing the hearts of the 2d division of the First corps. In the midst of
a rickety shanty, behind a little table, sit the major and clerk Eldridge, with the rolls before
them, and much moneys. A re-enlisted man gets in cash about $200 down, (and heavy instalments
following, as the pay-days arrive, one after another.) The show of the men crowding around
is quite exhilarating; I like to stand and look. They feel elated, their pockets full, and
the ensuing furlough, the visit home. It is a scene of sparkling eyes and flush'd cheeks. The
soldier has many gloomy and harsh experiences, and this makes up for some of them. Major H.
is order'd to pay first all the re-enlisted men of the First corps their bounties and back
pay, and then the rest. You hear the peculiar sound of the rustling of the new and crisp greenbacks
by the hour, through the nimble fingers of the major and my friend clerk E.

RUMORS, CHANGES, ETC.

About the excitement of Sunday, and the orders to be ready to start, I have heard since that
the said orders came from some cautious minor commander, and that the high principalities knew
not and thought not of any such move; which is likely. The rumor and fear here intimated a
long circuit by Lee, and flank attack on our right. But I cast my eyes at the mud, which was
then at its deepest and palmiest condition, and retired composedly to rest. Still it is about
time for Culpepper to have a change. Authorities have chased each other here like clouds in
a stormy sky. Before the first Bull Run this was the rendezvous and camp of instruction of
the secession troops. I am stopping at the house of a lady who has witness'd all the eventful
changes of the war, along this route of contending armies. She is a widow, with a family of
young children, and lives here with her sister in a large handsome house. A number of army
officers board with them.

VIRGINIA

Dilapidated, fenceless, and trodden with war as Virginia is, wherever I move across her surface,
I find myself rous'd to surprise and admiration. What capacity for products, improvements,
human life, nourishment and expansion. Everywhere that I have been in the Old Dominion, (the
subtle mockery of that title now!) such thoughts have fill'd me. The soil is yet far above
the average of any of the northern States. And how full of breadth the scenery, everywhere
distant mountains, everywhere convenient rivers. Even yet prodigal in forest woods, and surely
eligible for all the fruits, orchards, and flowers. The skies and atmosphere most luscious,
as I feel certain, from more than a year's residence in the State, and movements hither and
yon. I should say very healthy, as a general thing. Then a rich and elastic quality, by night
and by day. The sun rejoices in his strength, dazzling and burning, and yet, to me, never unpleasantly
weakening. It is not the panting tropical heat, but invigorates. The north tempers it. The
nights are often unsurpassable. Last evening (Feb. 8,) I saw the first of the new moon, the
outlined old moon clear along with it; the sky and air so clear, such transparent hues of color,
it seem'd to me I had never really seen the new moon before. It was the thinnest cut crescent
possible. It hung delicate just above the sulky shadow of the Blue mountains. Ah, if it might
prove an omen and good prophecy for this unhappy State.

SUMMER OF 1864

I am back again in Washington, on my regular daily and nightly rounds. Of course there are
many specialties. Dotting a ward here and there are always cases of poor fellows, long-suffering
under obstinate wounds, or weak and dishearten'd from typhoid fever, or the like; mark'd cases,
needing special and sympathetic nourishment. These I sit down and either talk to, or silently
cheer them up. They always like it hugely, (and so do I.) Each case has its peculiarities,
and needs some new adaptation. I have learnt to thus conform--learnt a good deal of hospital
wisdom. Some of the poor young chaps, away from home for the first time in their lives, hunger
and thirst for affection; this is sometimes the only thing that will reach their condition.
The men like to have a pencil, and something to write in. I have given them cheap pocket-diaries,
and almanacs for 1864, interleav'd with blank paper. For reading I generally have some old
pictorial magazines or story papers--they are always acceptable. Also the morning or evening
papers of the day. The best books I do not give, but lend to read through the wards, and then
take them to others, and so on; they are very punctual about returning the books. In these
wards, or on the field, as I thus continue to go round, I have come to adapt myself to each
emergency, after its kind or call, however trivial, however solemn, every one justified and
made real under its circumstances --not only visits and cheering talk and little gifts--not
only washing and dressing wounds, (I have some cases where the patient is unwilling any one
should do this but me)--but passages from the Bible, expounding them, prayer at the bedside,
explanations of doctrine, &c. (I think I see my friends smiling at this confession, but I was
never more in earnest in my life.) In camp and everywhere, I was in the habit of reading or
giving recitations to the men. They were very fond of it, and liked declamatory poetical pieces.
We would gather in a large group by ourselves, after supper, and spend the time in such readings,
or in talking, and occasionally by an amusing game called the game of twenty questions.

A NEW ARMY ORGANIZATION FIT FOR AMERICA

It is plain to me out of the events of the war, north and south, and out of all considerations,
that the current military theory, practice, rules and organization, (adopted from Europe from
the feudal institutes, with, of course, the "modern improvements," largely from the French,)
though tacitly follow'd, and believ'd in by the officers generally, are not at all consonant
with the United States, nor our people, nor our days. What it will be I know not--but I know
that as entire an abnegation of the present military system, and the naval too, and a building
up from radically different root-bases and centres appropriate to us, must eventually result,
as that our political system has resulted and become establish'd, different from feudal Europe,
and built up on itself from original, perennial, democratic premises. We have undoubtedly in
the United States the greatest military power--an exhaustless, intelligent, brave and reliable
rank and file--in the world, any land, perhaps all lands. The problem is to organize this in
the manner fully appropriate to it, to the principles of the republic, and to get the best
service out of it. In the present struggle, as already seen and review'd, probably three-fourths
of the losses, men, lives, &c., have been sheer superfluity, extravagance, waste.

DEATH OF A HERO

I wonder if I could ever convey to another--to you, for instance, reader dear--the tender and
terrible realities of such cases, (many, many happen'd,) as the one I am now going to mention.
Stewart C. Glover, company E, 5th Wisconsin--was wounded May 5, in one of those fierce tussles
of the Wilderness-died May 21--aged about 20. He was a small and beardless young man--a splendid
soldier--in fact almost an ideal American, of his age. He had serv'd nearly three years, and
would have been entitled to his discharge in a few days. He was in Hancock's corps. The fighting
had about ceas'd for the day, and the general commanding the brigade rode by and call'd for
volunteers to bring in the wounded. Glover responded among the first--went out gayly--but while
in the act of bearing in a wounded sergeant to our lines, was shot in the knee by a rebel sharpshooter;
consequence, amputation and death. He had resided with his father, John Glover, an aged and
feeble man, in Batavia, Genesee county, N. Y., but was at school in Wisconsin, after the war
broke out, and there enlisted--soon took to soldier-life, liked it, was very manly, was belov'd
by officers and comrades. He kept a little diary, like so many of the soldiers. On the day
of his death he wrote the following in it, to-day the doctor says I must die--all is over with
me--ah, so young to die. On another blank leaf he pencill'd to his brother, dear brother Thomas,
I have been brave but wicked--pray for me.

HOSPITAL SCENES--INCIDENTS

It is Sunday afternoon, middle of summer, hot and oppressive, and very silent through the ward.
I am taking care of a critical case, now lying in a half lethargy. Near where I sit is a suffering
rebel, from the 8th Louisiana; his name is Irving. He has been here a long time, badly wounded,
and lately had his leg amputated; it is not doing very well. Right opposite me is a sick soldier-boy,
laid down with his clothes on, sleeping, looking much wasted, his pallid face on his arm. I
see by the yellow trimming on his jacket that he is a cavalry boy. I step softly over and find
by his card that he is named William Cone, of the 1st Maine cavalry, and his folks live in
Skowhegan.

Ice Cream Treat.--One hot day toward the middle of June, I gave the inmates of Carver hospital
a general ice cream treat, purchasing a large quantity, and, under convoy of the doctor or
head nurse, going around personally through the wards to see to its distribution. An Incident.--In
one of the rights before Atlanta, a rebel soldier, of large size, evidently a young man, was
mortally wounded top of the head, so that the brains partially exuded. He lived three days,
lying on his back on the spot where he first dropt. He dug with his heel in the ground during
that time a hole big enough to put in a couple of ordinary knapsacks. He just lay there in
the open air, and with little intermission kept his heel going night and day. Some of our soldiers
then moved him to a house, but he died in a few minutes.

Another.--After the battles at Columbia, Tennessee, where we repuls'd about a score of vehement
rebel charges, they left a great many wounded on the ground, mostly within our range. Whenever
any of these wounded attempted to move away by any means, generally by crawling off, our men
without exception brought them down by a bullet. They let none crawl away, no matter what his
condition.

A YANKEE SOLDIER

As I turn'd off the Avenue one cool October evening into Thirteenth street, a soldier with
knapsack and overcoat stood at the corner inquiring his way. I found he wanted to go part of
the road in my direction, so we walk'd on together. We soon fell into conversation. He was
small and not very young, and a tough little fellow, as I judged in the evening light, catching
glimpses by the lamps we pass'd. His answers were short, but clear. His name was Charles Carroll;
he belong'd to one of the Massachusetts regiments, and was born in or near Lynn. His parents
were living, but were very old. There were four sons, and all had enlisted. Two had died of
starvation and misery in the prison at Andersonville, and one had been kill'd in the west.
He only was left. He was now going home, and by the way he talk'd I inferr'd that his time
was nearly out. He made great calculations on being with his parents to comfort them the rest
of their days.

UNION PRISONERS SOUTH

Michael Stansbury, 48 years of age, a seafaring man, a southerner by birth and raising, formerly
captain of U. S. light ship Long Shoal, station'd at Long Shoal point, Pamlico sound--though
a southerner, a firm Union man--was captur'd Feb. 17, 1863, and has been nearly two years in
the Confederate prisons; was at one time order'd releas'd by Governor Vance, but a rebel officer
re-arrested him; then sent on to Richmond for exchange--but instead of being exchanged was
sent down (as a southern citizen, not a soldier,) to Salisbury, N. C., where he remain'd until
lately, when he escap'd among the exchang'd by assuming the name of a dead soldier, and coming
up via Wilmington with the rest. Was about sixteen months in Salisbury.

Subsequent to October, '64, there were about 11,000 Union prisoners in the stockade; about
100 of them southern unionists, 200 U. S. deserters. During the past winter 1500 of the prisoners,
to save their lives, join'd the confederacy, on condition of being assign'd merely to guard
duty. Out of the 11,000 not more than 2500 came out; 500 of these were pitiable, helpless wretches--the
rest were in a condition to travel. There were often 60 dead bodies to be buried in the morning;
the daily average would be about 40. The regular food was a meal of corn, the cob and husk
ground together, and sometimes once a week a ration of sorghum molasses. A diminutive ration
of meat might possibly come once a month, not oftener. In the stockade, containing the 11,000
men, there was a partial show of tents, not enough for 2000. A large proportion of the men
lived in holes in the ground, in the utmost wretchedness. Some froze to death, others had their
hands and feet frozen. The rebel guards would occasionally, and on the least pretence, fire
into the prison from mere demonism and wantonness. All the horrors that can be named, starvation,
lassitude, filth, vermin, despair, swift loss of self-respect, idiocy, insanity, and frequent
murder, were there. Stansbury has a wife and child living in Newbern--has written to them from
here--is in the U. S. light-house employ still--(had been home to Newbern to see his family,
and on his return to the ship was captured in his boat.) Has seen men brought there to Salisbury
as hearty as you ever see in your life--in a few weeks completely dead gone, much of it from
thinking on their condition--hope all gone. Has himself a hard, sad, strangely deaden'd kind
of look, as of one chill' d for years in the cold and dark, where his good manly nature had
no room to exercise itself.

DESERTERS

Oct. 24.--Saw a large squad of our own deserters (over 300) surrounded with a cordon of arm'd
guards, marching along Pennsylvania avenue. The most motley collection I ever saw, all sorts
of rig, all sorts of hats and caps, many fine-looking young fellows, some of them shame-faced,
some sickly, most of them dirty, shirts very dirty and long worn, &c. They tramp'd along without
order, a huge huddling mass, not in ranks. I saw some of the spectators laughing, but I felt
like anything else but laughing. These deserters are far more numerous than would be thought.
Almost every day I see squads of them, sometimes two or three at a time, with a small guard;
sometimes ten or twelve, under a larger one. (I hear that desertions from the army now in the
field have often averaged 10,000 a month. One of the commonest sights in Washington is a squad
of deserters.)

A GLIMPSE OF WAR'S HELL-SCENES

In one of the late movements of our troops in the valley, (near Upperville, I think,) a strong
force of Moseby's mounted guerillas attack'd a train of wounded, and the guard of cavalry convoying
them. The ambulances contain'd about 60 wounded, quite a number of them officers of rank. The
rebels were in strength, and the capture of the train and its partial guard after a short snap
was effectually accomplish'd. No sooner had our men surrender'd, the rebels instantly commenced
robbing the train and murdering their prisoners, even the wounded. Here is the scene, or a
sample of it, ten minutes after. Among the wounded officers in the ambulances were one, a lieutenant
of regulars, and another of higher rank. These two were dragg'd out on the ground on their
backs, and were now surrounded by the guerillas, a demoniac crowd, each member of which was
stabbing them in different parts of their bodies. One of the officers had his feet pinn'd firmly
to the ground by bayonets stuck through them and thrust into the ground. These two officers,
as afterwards found on examination, had receiv'd about twenty such thrusts, some of them through
the mouth, face, &c. The wounded had all been dragg'd (to give a better chance also for plunder,)
out of their wagons; some had been effectually dispatch'd, and their bodies were lying there
lifeless and bloody. Others, not yet dead, but horribly mutilated, were moaning or groaning.
Of our men who surrender'd, most had been thus maim'd or slaughter'd.

At this instant a force of our cavalry, who had been following the train at some interval,
charged suddenly upon the secesh captors, who proceeded at once to make the best escape they
could. Most of them got away, but we gobbled two officers and seventeen men, in the very acts
just described. The sight was one which admitted of little discussion, as may be imagined.
The seventeen captur'd men and two officers were put under guard for the night, but it was
decided there and then that they should die. The next morning the two officers were taken in
the town, separate places, put in the centre of the street, and shot. The seventeen men were
taken to an open ground, a little one side. They were placed in a hollow square, half-encompass'd
by two of our cavalry regiments, one of which regiments had three days before found the bloody
corpses of three of their men hamstrung and hung up by the heels to limbs of trees by Moseby's
guerillas, and the other had not long before had twelve men, after surrendering, shot and then
hung by the neck to limbs of trees, and jeering inscriptions pinn'd to the breast of one of
the corpses, who had been a sergeant. Those three, and those twelve, had been found, I say,
by these environing regiments. Now, with revolvers, they form'd the grim cordon of the seventeen
prisoners. The latter were placed in the midst of the hollow square, unfasten'd, and the ironical
remark made to them that they were now to be given "a chance for themselves." A few ran for
it. But what use? From every side the deadly pills came. In a few minutes the seventeen corpses
strew'd the hollow square. I was curious to know whether some of the Union soldiers, some few,
(some one or two at least of the youngsters,) did not abstain from shooting on the helpless
men. Not one. There was no exultation, very little said, almost nothing, yet every man there
contributed his shot.

Multiply the above by scores, aye hundreds--verify it in all the forms that different circumstances,
individuals, places, could afford--light it with every lurid passion, the wolf's, the lion's
lapping thirst for blood--the passionate, boiling volcanoes of human revenge for comrades,
brothers slain--with the light of burning farms, and heaps of smutting, smouldering black embers--and
in the human heart everywhere black, worse embers--and you have an inkling of this war.

GIFTS--MONEY--DISCRIMINATION

As a very large proportion of the wounded came up from the front without a cent of money in
their pockets, I soon discover'd that it was about the best thing I could do to raise their
spirits, and show them that somebody cared for them, and practically felt a fatherly or brotherly
interest in them, to give them small sums in such cases, using tact and discretion about it.
I am regularly supplied with funds for this purpose by good women and men in Boston, Salem,
Providence, Brooklyn, and New York. I provide myself with a quantity of bright new ten-cent
and five-cent bills, and, when I think it incumbent, I give 25 or 30 cents, or perhaps 50 cents,
and occasionally a still larger sum to some particular case. As I have started this subject,
I take opportunity to ventilate the financial question. My supplies, altogether voluntary,
mostly confidential, often seeming quite Providential, were numerous and varied. For instance,
there were two distant and wealthy ladies, sisters, who sent regularly, for two years, quite
heavy sums, enjoining that their names should be kept secret. The same delicacy was indeed
a frequent condition. From several I had carte blanche. Many were entire strangers. From these
sources, during from two to three years, in the manner described, in the hospitals, I bestowed,
as almoner for others, many, many thousands of dollars. I learn'd one thing conclusively--that
beneath all the ostensible greed and heartlessness of our times there is no end to the generous
benevolence of men and women in the United States, when once sure of their object. Another
thing became clear to me--while cash is not amiss to bring up the rear, tact and magnetic sympathy
and unction are, and ever will be, sovereign still.

ITEMS FROM MY NOTE BOOKS

Some of the half-eras'd, and not over-legible when made, memoranda of things wanted by one
patient or another, will convey quite a fair idea. D. S. G., bed 52, wants a good book; has
a sore, weak throat; would like some horehound candy; is from New Jersey, 28th regiment. C.
H. L., 145th Pennsylvania, lies in bed 6, with jaundice and erysipelas; also wounded; stomach
easily nauseated; bring him some oranges, also a little tart jelly; hearty, full-blooded young
fellow--(he got better in a few days, and is now home on a furlough.) J. H. G., bed 24, wants
an undershirt, drawers, and socks; has not had a change for quite a while; is evidently a neat,
clean boy from New England--(I supplied him; also with a comb, tooth-brush, and some soap and
towels; I noticed afterward he was the cleanest of the whole ward.) Mrs. G., lady-nurse, ward
F, wants a bottle of brandy--has two patients imperatively requiring stimulus--low with wounds
and exhaustion. (I supplied her with a bottle of first-rate brandy from the Christian commission
rooms.)

A CASE FROM SECOND BULL RUN

Well, Poor John Mahay is dead. He died yesterday. His was a painful and long-lingering case
(see p. 24 ante.) I have been with him at times for the past fifteen months. He belonged to
company A, 101st New York, and was shot through the lower region of the abdomen at second Bull
Run, August, '62. One scene at his bedside will suffice for the agonies of nearly two years.
The bladder had been perforated by a bullet going entirely through him. Not long since I sat
a good part of the morning by his bedside, ward E, Armory square. The water ran out of his
eyes from the intense pain, and the muscles of his face were distorted, but he utter'd nothing
except a low groan now and then. Hot moist cloths were applied, and reliev'd him somewhat.
Poor Mahay, a mere boy in age, but old in misfortune. He never knew the love of parents, was
placed in infancy in one of the New York charitable institutions, and subsequently bound out
to a tyrannical master in Sullivan county, (the scars of whose cowhide and club remain'd yet
on his back.) His wound here was a most disagreeable one, for he was a gentle, cleanly, and
affectionate boy. He found friends in his hospital life, and, indeed, was a universal favorite.
He had quite a funeral ceremony.

ARMY SURGEONS--AID DEFICIENCIES

I must bear my most emphatic testimony to the zeal, manliness, and professional spirit and
capacity, generally prevailing among the surgeons, many of them young men, in the hospitals
and the army. I will not say much about the exceptions, for they are few; (but I have met some
of those few, and very incompetent and airish they were.) I never ceas'd to find the best men,
and the hardest and most disinterested workers, among the surgeons in the hospitals. They are
full of genius, too. I have seen many hundreds of them and this is my testimony. There are,
however, serious deficiencies, wastes, sad want of system, in the commissions, contributions,
and in all the voluntary, and a great part of the governmental nursing, edibles, medicines,
stores, &c. (I do not say surgical attendance, because the surgeons cannot do more than human
endurance permits.) Whatever puffing accounts there may be in the papers of the North, this
is the actual fact. No thorough previous preparation, no system, no foresight, no genius. Always
plenty of stores, no doubt, but never where they are needed, and never the proper application.
Of all harrowing experiences, none is greater than that of the days following a heavy battle.
Scores, hundreds of the noblest men on earth, uncomplaining, lie helpless, mangled, faint,
alone, and so bleed to death, or die from exhaustion, either actually untouch'd at all, or
merely the laying of them down and leaving them, when there ought to be means provided to save
them.

THE BLUE EVERYWHERE

This city, its suburbs, the capitol, the front of the White House, the places of amusement,
the Avenue, and all the main streets, swarm with soldiers this winter, more than ever before.
Some are out from the hospitals, some from the neighboring camps, &c. One source or another,
they pour plenteously, and make, I should say, the mark'd feature in the human movement and
costume-appearance of our national city. Their blue pants and overcoats are everywhere. The
clump of crutches is heard up the stairs of the paymasters' offices, and there are characteristic
groups around the doors of the same, often waiting long and wearily in the cold. Toward the
latter part of the afternoon, you see the furlough'd men, sometimes singly, sometimes in small
squads, making their way to the Baltimore depot. At all times, except early in the morning,
the patrol detachments are moving around, especially during the earlier hours of evening, examining
passes, and arresting all soldiers without them. They do not question the one-legged, or men
badly disabled or main'd, but all others are stopt. They also go around evenings through the
auditoriums of the theatres, and make officers and all show their passes, or other authority,
for being there.

A MODEL HOSPITAL

Sunday, January 29th, 1865.--Have been in Armory-square this afternoon. The wards are very
comfortable, new floors and plaster walls, and models of neatness. I am not sure but this is
a model hospital after all, in important respects. I found several sad cases of old lingering
wounds. One Delaware soldier, William H. Millis, from Bridgeville, whom I had been with after
the battles of the Wilderness, last May, where he receiv'd a very bad wound in the chest, with
another in the left arm, and whose case was serious (pneumonia had set in) all last June and
July, I now find well enough to do light duty. For three weeks at the time mention'd he just
hovered between life and death.

BOYS IN THE ARMY

As I walk'd home about sunset, I saw in Fourteenth street a very young soldier, thinly clad,
standing near the house I was about to enter. I stopt a moment in front of the door and call'd
him to me. I knew that an old Tennessee regiment, and also an Indiana regiment, were temporarily
stopping in new barracks, near Fourteenth street. This boy I found belonged to the Tennessee
regiment. But I could hardly believe he carried a musket. He was but 15 years old, yet had
been twelve months a soldier, and had borne his part in several battles, even historic ones.
I ask'd him if he did not suffer from the cold, and if he had no overcoat. No, he did not suffer
from cold, and had no overcoat, but could draw one whenever he wish'd. His father was dead,
and his mother living in some part of East Tennessee; all the men were from that part of the
country. The next forenoon I saw the Tennessee and Indiana regiments marching down the Avenue.
My boy was with the former, stepping along with the rest. There were many other boys no older.
I stood and watch'd them as they tramp'd along with slow, strong, heavy, regular steps. There
did not appear to be a man over 30 years of age, and a large proportion were from 15 to perhaps
22 or 23. They had all the look of veterans, worn, stain'd, impassive, and a certain unbent,
lounging gait, carrying in addition to their regular arms and knapsacks, frequently a frying-pan,
broom, &c. They were all of pleasant physiognomy; no refinement, nor blanch'd with intellect,
but as my eye pick'd them, moving along, rank by rank, there did not seem to be a single repulsive,
brutal or markedly stupid face among them.

BURIAL OF A LADY NURSE

Here is an incident just occurr'd in one of the hospitals. A lady named Miss or Mrs. Billings,
who has long been a practical friend of soldiers, and nurse in the army, and had become attached
to it in a way that no one can realize but him or her who has had experience, was taken sick,
early this winter, linger'd some time, and finally died in the hospital. It was her request
that she should be buried among the soldiers, and after the military method. This request was
fully carried out. Her coffin was carried to the grave by soldiers, with the usual escort,
buried, and a salute fired over the grave. This was at Annapolis a few days since.

FEMALE NURSES FOR SOLDIERS

There are many women in one position or another, among the hospitals, mostly as nurses here
in Washington, and among the military stations; quite a number of them young ladies acting
as volunteers. They are a help in certain ways, and deserve to be mention'd with respect. Then
it remains to be distinctly said that few or no young ladies, under the irresistible conventions
of society, answer the practical requirements of nurses for soldiers. Middle-aged or healthy
and good condition'd elderly women, mothers of children, are always best. Many of the wounded
must be handled. A hundred things which cannot be gainsay'd, must occur and must be done. The
presence of a good middle-aged or elderly woman, the magnetic touch of hands, the expressive
features of the mother, the silent soothing of her presence, her words, her knowledge and privileges
arrived at only through having had children, are precious and final qualifications. It is a
natural faculty that is required; it is not merely having a genteel young woman at a table
in a ward. One of the finest nurses I met was a red-faced illiterate old Irish woman; I have
seen her take the poor wasted naked boys so tenderly up in her arms. There are plenty of excellent
clean old black women that would make tip-top nurses.

SOUTHERN ESCAPEES

Feb. 23, '65.--I saw a large procession of young men from the rebel army, (deserters they are
call'd, but the usual meaning of the word does not apply to them,) passing the Avenue to-day.
There were nearly 200, come up yesterday by boat from James river. I stood and watch'd them
as they shuffled along, in a slow, tired, worn sort of way; a large proportion of light-hair'd,
blonde, light gray-eyed young men among them. Their costumes had a dirt-stain'd uniformity;
most had been originally gray; some had articles of our uniform, pants on one, vest or coat
on another; I think they were mostly Georgia and North Carolina boys. They excited little or
no attention. As I stood quite close to them, several good looking enough youths, (but O what
a tale of misery their appearance told,) nodded or just spoke to me, without doubt divining
pity and fatherliness out of my face, for my heart was full enough of it. Several of the couples
trudg'd along with their arms about each other, some probably brothers, as if they were afraid
they might somehow get separated. They nearly all look'd what one might call simple, yet intelligent,
too. Some had pieces of old carpet, some blankets, and others old bags around their shoulders.
Some of them here and there had fine faces, still it was a procession of misery. The two hundred
had with them about half a dozen arm'd guards. Along this week I saw some such procession,
more or less in numbers, every day, as they were brought up by the boat. The government does
what it can for them, and sends them north and west.

Feb. 27.--Some three or four hundred more escapees from the confederate army came up on the
boat. As the day has been very pleasant indeed, (after a long spell of bad weather,) I have
been wandering around a good deal, without any other object than to be out-doors and enjoy
it; have met these escaped men in all directions. Their apparel is the same ragged, long-worn
motley as before described. I talk'd with a number of the men. Some are quite bright and stylish,
for all their poor clothes--walking with an air, wearing their old head-coverings on one side,
quite saucily. I find the old, unquestionable proofs, as all along the past four years, of
the unscrupulous tyranny exercised by the secession government in conscripting the common people
by absolute force everywhere, and paying no attention whatever to the men's time being up--keeping
them in military service just the same. One gigantic young fellow, a Georgian, at least six
feet three inches high, broad-sized in proportion, attired in the dirtiest, drab, well smear'd
rags, tied with strings, his trousers at the knees all strips and streamers, was complacently
standing eating some bread and meat. He appear'd contented enough. Then a few minutes after
I saw him slowly walking along. It was plain he did not take anything to heart.

Feb. 28.--As I pass'd the military headquarters of the city, not far from the President's house,
I stopt to interview some of the crowd of escapees who were lounging there. In appearance they
were the same as previously mention'd. Two of them, one about 17, and the other perhaps 25
or '6, I talk'd with some time. They were from North Carolina, born and rais'd there, and had
folks there. The elder had been in the rebel service four years. He was first conscripted for
two years. He was then kept arbitrarily in the ranks. This is the case with a large proportion
of the secession army. There was nothing downcast in these young men's manners; the younger
had been soldiering about a year; he was conscripted; there were six brothers (all the boys
of the family) in the army, part of them as conscripts, part as volunteers; three had been
kill'd; one had escaped about four months ago, and now this one had got away; he was a pleasant
and well-talking lad, with the peculiar North Carolina idiom (not at all disagreeable to my
ears.) He and the elder one were of the same company, and escaped together--and wish'd to remain
together. They thought of getting transportation away to Missouri, and working there; but were
not sure it was judicious. I advised them rather to go to some of the directly northern States,
and get farm work for the present. The younger had made six dollars on the boat, with some
tobacco he brought; he had three and a half left. The elder had nothing; I gave him a trifle.
Soon after, met John Wormley, 9th Alabama, a West Tennessee rais' d boy, parents both dead--had
the look of one for a long time on short allowance--said very little--chew'd tobacco at a fearful
rate, spitting in proportion--large clear dark-brown eyes, very fine--didn't know what to make
of me--told me at last he wanted much to get some clean underclothes, and a pair of decent
pants. Didn't care about coat or hat fixings. Wanted a chance to wash himself well, and put
on the underclothes. I had the very great pleasure of helping him to accomplish all those wholesome
designs.

March 1st.--Plenty more butternut or clay-color'd escapees every day. About 160 came in to-day,
a large portion South Carolinians. They generally take the oath of allegiance, and are sent
north, west, or extreme south-west if they wish. Several of them told me that the desertions
in their army, of men going home, leave or no leave, are far more numerous than their desertions
to our side. I saw a very forlorn looking squad of about a hundred, late this afternoon, on
their way to the Baltimore depot.

THE CAPITOL BY GAS-LIGHT

To-night I have been wandering awhile in the capitol, which is all lit up. The illuminated
rotunda looks fine. I like to stand aside and look a long, long while, up at the dome; it comforts
me somehow. The House and Senate were both in session till very late. I look'd in upon them,
but only a few moments; they were hard at work on tax and appropriation bills. I wander'd through
the long and rich corridors and apartments under the Senate; an old habit of mine, former winters,
and now more satisfaction than ever. Not many persons down there, occasionally a flitting figure
in the distance.

THE INAUGURATION

March 4th.--The President very quietly rode down to the capitol in his own carriage, by himself,
on a sharp trot, about noon, either because he wish'd to be on hand to sign bills, or to get
rid of marching in line with the absurd procession, the muslin temple of liberty and pasteboard
monitor. I saw him on his return, at three o'clock, after the performance was over. He was
in his plain two-horse barouche, and look'd very much worn and tired; the lines, indeed, of
vast responsibilities, intricate questions, and demands of life and death, cut deeper than
ever upon his dark brown face; yet all the old goodness, tenderness, sadness, and canny shrewdness,
underneath the furrows. (I never see that man without feeling that he is one to become personally
attach'd to, for his combination of purest, heartiest tenderness, and native western form of
manliness.) By his side sat his little boy, of ten years. There were no soldiers, only a lot
of civilians on horseback, with huge yellow scarfs over their shoulders, riding around the
carriage. (At the inauguration four years ago, he rode down and back again surrounded by a
dense mass of arm'd cavalrymen eight deep, with drawn sabres; and there were sharpshooters
station'd at every corner on the route.) I ought to make mention of the closing levee of Saturday
night last. Never before was such a compact jam in front of the White House--all the grounds
fill'd, and away out to the spacious sidewalks. I was there, as I took a notion to go--was
in the rush inside with the crowd--surged along the passage-ways, the blue and other rooms,
and through the great east room. Crowds of country people, some very funny. Fine music from
the Marine band, off in a side place. I saw Mr. Lincoln, drest all in black, with white kid
gloves and a claw-hammer coat, receiving, as in duty bound, shaking hands, looking very disconsolate,
and as if he would give anything to be somewhere else.

ATTITUDE OF FOREIGN GOVERNMENTS DURING THE WAR

Looking over my scraps, I find I wrote the following during 1864. The happening to our America,
abroad as well as at home, these years, is indeed most strange. The democratic republic has
paid her today the terrible and resplendent compliment of the united wish of all the nations
of the world that her union should be broken, her future cut off, and that she should be compell'd
to descend to the level of kingdoms and empires ordinarily great. There is certainly not one
government in Europe but is now watching the war in this country, with the ardent prayer that
the United States may be effectually split, crippled, and dismember'd by it. There is not one
but would help toward that dismemberment, if it dared. I say such is the ardent wish to-day
of England and of France, as governments, and of all the nations of Europe, as governments.
I think indeed it is to-day the real, heartfelt wish of all the nations of the world, with
the single exception of Mexico--Mexico, the only one to whom we have ever really done wrong,
and now the only one who prays for us and for our triumph, with genuine prayer. Is it not indeed
strange? America, made up of all, cheerfully from the beginning opening her arms to all, the
result and justifier of all, of Britain, Germany, France and Spain--all here--the accepter,
the friend, hope, last resource and general house of all--she who has harm'd none, but been
bounteous to so many, to millions, the mother of strangers and exiles, all nations--should
now, I say, be paid this dread compliment of general governmental fear and hatred. Are we indignant?
alarm'd? Do we feel jeopardized? No; help'd, braced, concentrated, rather. We are all too prone
to wander from ourselves, to affect Europe, and watch her frowns and smiles. We need this hot
lesson of general hatred, and henceforth must never forget it.

THE WEATHER--DOES IT SYMPATHIZE WITH THESE TIMES?

Whether the rains, the heat and cold, and what underlies them all, are affected with what affects
man in masses, and follow his play of passionate action, strain'd stronger than usual, and
on a larger scale than usual--whether this, or no, it is certain that there is now, and has
been for twenty months or more, on this American continent north, many a remarkable, many an
unprecedented expression of the subtile world of air above us and around us. There, since this
war, and the wide and deep national agitation, strange analogies, different combinations, a
different sunlight, or absence of it; different products even out of the ground. After every
great battle, a great storm. Even civic events the same. On Saturday last, a forenoon like
whirling demons, dark, with slanting rain, full of rage; and then the afternoon, so calm, so
bathed with flooding splendor from heaven's most excellent sun, with atmosphere of sweetness;
so clear, it show'd the stars, long long before they were due. As the President came out on
the capitol portico, a curious little white cloud, the only one in that part of the sky, appear'd
like a hovering bird, right over him.

Indeed, the heavens, the elements, all the meteorological influences, have run riot for weeks
past. Such caprices, abruptest alternation of frowns and beauty, I never knew. It is a common
remark that (as last summer was different in its spells of intense heat from any preceding
it,) the winter just completed has been without parallel. It has remain'd so down to the hour
I am writing. Much of the daytime of the past month was sulky, with leaden heaviness, fog,
interstices of bitter cold, and some insane storms. But there have been samples of another
description. Nor earth nor sky ever knew spectacles of superber beauty than some of the nights
lately here. Five or six nights since, it hung close by the moon, then a little past its first
quarter. The star was wonderful, the moon like a young mother.

INAUGURATION BALL

March 6.--I have been up to look at the dance and supper-rooms, for the inauguration ball at
the Patent office; and I could not help thinking, what a different scene they presented to
my view a while since, fill'd with a crowded mass of the worst wounded of the war, brought
in from second Bull Run, Antietam, and Fredericksburgh. To-night, beautiful women, perfumes,
the violin's sweetness, the polka and the waltz; then the amputation, the blue face, the groan,
the glassy eye of the dying, the clotted rag, the odor of wounds and blood, and many a mother's
son amid strangers, passing away untended there, (for the crowd of the badly hurt was great,
and much for nurse to do, and much for surgeon.)

SCENE AT THE CAPITOL

I must mention a strange scene at the capitol, the hall of Representatives, the morning of
Saturday last, (March 4th.) The day just dawn'd, but in half-darkness, everything dim, leaden,
and soaking. In that dim light, the members nervous from long drawn duty, exhausted, some asleep,
and many half asleep. The gas-light, mix'd with the dingy day-break, produced an unearthly
effect. The poor little sleepy, stumbling pages, the smell of the hall, the members with heads
leaning on their desks, the sounds of the voices speaking, with unusual intonations--the general
moral atmosphere also of the close of this important session--the strong hope that the war
is approaching its close--the tantalizing dread lest the hope may be a false one--the grandeur
of the hall itself, with its effect of vast shadows up toward the panels and spaces over the
galleries--all made a mark'd combination.

In the midst of this, with the suddenness of a thunderbolt, burst one of the most angry and
crashing storms of rain and hail ever heard. It beat like a deluge on the heavy glass roof
of the hall, and the wind literally howl'd and roar'd. For a moment, (and no wonder,) the nervous
and sleeping Representatives were thrown into confusion. The slumberers awaked with fear, some
started for the doors, some look'd up with blanch'd cheeks and lips to the roof, and the little
pages began to cry; it was a scene. But it was over almost as soon as the drowsied men were
actually awake. They recover'd themselves; the storm raged on, beating, dashing, and with loud
noises at times. But the House went ahead with its business then, I think, as calmly and with
as much deliberation as at any time in its career. Perhaps the shock did it good. (One is not
without impression, after all, amid these members of Congress, of both the Houses, that if
the flat routine of their duties should ever be broken in upon by some great emergency involving
real danger, and calling for first-class personal qualities, those qualities would be found
generally forthcoming, and from men not now credited with them.)

A YANKEE ANTIQUE

March 27, 1865.--Sergeant Calvin F. Harlowe, company C, 29th Massachusetts, 3d brigade, 1st
division, Ninth corps--a mark'd sample of heroism and death, (some may say bravado, but I say
heroism, of grandest, oldest order)--in the late attack by the rebel troops, and temporary
capture by them, of fort Steadman, at night. The fort was surprised at dead of night. Suddenly
awaken'd from their sleep, and rushing from their tents, Harlowe, with others, found himself
in the hands of the secesh--they demanded his surrender--he answer'd, Never while I live. (Of
course it was useless. The others surrender'd; the odds were too great.) Again he was ask'd
to yield, this time by a rebel captain. Though surrounded, and quite calm, he again refused,
call'd sternly to his comrades to fight on, and himself attempted to do so. The rebel captain
then shot him--but at the same instant he shot the captain. Both fell together mortally wounded.
Harlowe died almost instantly. The rebels were driven out in a very short time. The body was
buried next day, but soon taken up and sent home, (Plymouth county, Mass.) Harlowe was only
22 years of age--was a tall, slim, dark-hair'd, blue-eyed young man--had come out originally
with the 29th; and that is the way he met his death, after four years' campaign. He was in
the Seven Days fight before Richmond, in second Bull Run, Antietam, first Fredericksburgh,
Vicksburgh, Jackson, Wilderness, and the campaigns following--was as good a soldier as ever
wore the blue, and every old officer in the regiment will bear that testimony. Though so young,
and in a common rank, he had a spirit as resolute and brave as any hero in the books, ancient
or modern--It was too great to say the words "I surrender"--and so he died. (When I think of
such things, knowing them well, all the vast and complicated events of the war, on which history
dwells and makes its volumes, fall aside, and for the moment at any rate I see nothing but
young Calvin Harlowe's figure in the night, disdaining to surrender.)

WOUNDS AND DISEASES

The war is over, but the hospitals are fuller than ever, from former and current cases. A large'
majority of the wounds are in the arms and legs. But there is every kind of wound, in every
part of the body. I should say of the sick, from my observation, that the prevailing maladies
are typhoid fever and the camp fevers generally, diarrhoea, catarrhal affections and bronchitis,
rheumatism and pneumonia. These forms of sickness lead; all the rest follow. There are twice
as many sick as there are wounded. The deaths range from seven to ten per cent, of those under
treatment.[7]

Note:

[7] In the U. S. Surgeon-General's office since, there is a formal record and treatment of
153, 142 cases of wounds by government surgeons. What must have been the number unofficial,
indirect--to say nothing of the Southern armies?

DEATH OF PRESIDENT LINCOLN

April 16, '65.--I find in my notes of the time, this passage on the death of Abraham Lincoln:
He leaves for America's history and biography, so far, not only its most dramatic reminiscence--he
leaves, in my opinion, the greatest, best, most characteristic, artistic, moral personality.
Not but that he had faults, and show'd them in the Presidency; but honesty, goodness, shrewdness,
conscience, and (a new virtue, unknown to other lands, and hardly yet really known here, but
the foundation and tie of all, as the future will grandly develop,) UNIONISM, in its truest
and amplest sense, form'd the hard-pan of his character. These he seal'd with his life. The
tragic splendor of his death, purging, illuminating all, throws round his form, his head, an
aureole that will remain and will grow brighter through time, while history lives, and love
of country lasts. By many has this Union been help'd; but if one name, one man, must be pick'd
out, he, most of all, is the conservator of it, to the future. He was assassinated--but the
Union is not assassinated--ca ira! One falls and another falls. The soldier drops, sinks like
a wave--but the ranks of the ocean eternally press on. Death does its work, obliterates a hundred,
a thousand--President, general, captain, private,--but the Nation is immortal.

SHERMAN'S ARMY'S JUBILATION--ITS SUDDEN STOPPAGE

When Sherman's armies, (long after they left Atlanta,) were marching through Southand North
Carolina--after leaving Savannah, the news of Lee's capitulation having been receiv'd--the
men never mov'd a mile without from some part of the line sending up continued, inspiriting
shouts. At intervals all day long sounded out the wild music of those peculiar army cries.
They would be commenc'd by one regiment or brigade, immediately taken up by others, and at
length whole corps and armies would join in these wild triumphant choruses. It was one of the
characteristic expressions of the western troops, and became a habit, serving as a relief and
outlet to the men--a vent for their feelings of victory, returning peace, &c. Morning, noon,
and afternoon, spontaneous, for occasion or without occasion, these huge, strange cries, differing
from any other, echoing through the open air for many a mile, expressing youth, joy, wildness,
irrepressible strength, and the ideas of advance and conquest, sounded along the swamps and
uplands of the South, floating to the skies. ("There never were men that kept in better spirits
in danger or defeat--what then could they do in victory?"--said one of the 15th corps to me,
afterwards.) This exuberance continued till the armies arrived at Raleigh. There the news of
the President's murder was receiv'd. Then no more shouts or yells, for a week. All the marching
was comparatively muffled. It was very significant--hardly a loud word or laugh in many of
the regiments. A hush and silence pervaded all.

NO GOOD PORTRAIT OF LINCOLN

Probably the reader has seen physiognomies (often old farmers, sea-captains, and such) that,
behind their homeliness, or even ugliness, held superior points so subtle, yet so palpable,
making the real life of their faces almost as impossible to depict as a wild perfume or fruit-taste,
or a passionate tone of the living voice--and such was Lincoln's face, the peculiar color,
the lines of it, the eyes, mouth, expression. Of technical beauty it had nothing--but to the
eye of a great artist it furnished a rare study, a feast and fascination. The current portraits
are all failures--most of them caricatures.

RELEAS'D UNION PRISONERS FROM SOUTH

The releas'd prisoners of war are now coming up from the southern prisons. I have seen a number
of them. The sight is worse than any sight of battle-fields, or any collection of wounded,
even the bloodiest. There was, (as a sample,) one large boat load, of several hundreds, brought
about the 25th, to Annapolis; and out of the whole number only three individuals were able
to walk from the boat. The rest were carried ashore and laid down in one place or another.
Can those be men--those little livid brown, ash-streak'd, monkey-looking dwarfs?--are they
really not mummied, dwindled corpses? They lay there, most of them, quite still, but with a
horrible look in their eyes and skinny lips (often with not enough flesh on the lips to cover
their teeth.) Probably no more appalling sight was ever seen on this earth. (There are deeds,
crimes, that may be forgiven; but this is not among them. It steeps its perpetrators in blackest,
escapeless, endless damnation. Over 50,000 have been compell' d to die the death of starvation--reader,
did you ever try to realize what starvation actually is?--in those prisons--and in a land of
plenty.) An indescribable meanness, tyranny, aggravating course of insults, almost incredible--was
evidently the rule of treatment through all the southern military prisons. The dead there are
not to be pitied as much as some of the living that come from there--if they can be call' d
living--many of them are mentally imbecile, and will never recuperate.[8]

Note:

[8] From a review of "ANDERSONVILLE, A STORY OF SOUTHERN MILTTARY PRISONS," published serially
in the Toledo "Blade" in 1879, and afterwards in book form.

"There is a deep fascination in the subject of Andersonville--for that Golgotha, in which lie
the whitening bones of 13,000 gallant young men, represents the dearest and costliest sacrifice
of the war for the preservation of our national unity. It is a type, too, of its class. Its
more than hundred hecatombs of dead represent several times that number of their brethren,
for whom the prison gates of Belle Isle, Danville, Salisbury, Florence, Columbia, and Cahaba
open'd only in eternity. There are few families in the North who have not at least one dear
relative or friend among these 60,000 whose sad fortune it was to end their service for the
Union by lying down and dying for it in a southern prison pen. The manner of their death, the
horrors that cluster'd thickly around every moment of their existence, the loyal, unfaltering
steadfastness with which they endured all that fate had brought them, has never been adequately
told. It was not with them as with their comrades in the field, whose every act was perform'd
in the presence of those whose duty it was to observe such matters and report them to the world.
Hidden from the view of their friends in the north by the impenetrable veil which the military
operations of the rebels drew around the so-called confederacy, the people knew next to nothing
of their career or their sufferings. Thousands died there less heeded even than the hundreds
who perish'd on the battlefield. Grant did not lose as many men kill'd outright, in the terrible
campaign from the Wilderness to the James river--43 days of desperate fighting--as died in
July and August at Andersonville. Nearly twice as many died in that prison as fell from the
day that Grant cross'd the Rapidan, till he settled down in the trenches before Petersburg.
More than four times as many Union dead lie under the solemn soughing pines about that forlorn
little village in southern Georgia, than mark the course of Sherman from Chattanooga to Atlanta.
The nation stands aghast at the expenditure of life which attended the two bloody campaigns
of 1864, which virtually crush'd the confederacy, but no one remembers that more Union soldiers
died in the rear of the rebel lines than were kill'd in the front of them. The great military
events which stamp'd out the rebellion drew attention away from the sad drama which starvation
and disease play'd in those gloomy pens in the far recesses of sombre southern forests."

From a letter of "Johnny Bouquet," in N. Y. "Tribune," March 27, '81.

"I visited at Salisbury, N. C., the prison pen or the site of it, from which nearly 11,000
victims of southern politicians were buried, being confined in a pen without shelter, exposed
to all the elements could do, to all the disease herding animals together could create, and
to all the starvation and cruelty an incompetent and intense caitiff government could accomplish.
From the conversation and almost from the recollection of the northern people this place has
dropp' d, but not so in the gossip of the Salisbury people, nearly all of whom say that the
half was never told; that such was the nature of habitual outrage here that when Federal prisoners
escaped the townspeople harbor'd them in their barns, afraid the vengeance of God would fall
on them, to deliver even their enemies back to such cruelty. Said one old man at the Boyden
House, who join'd in the conversation one evening: 'There were often men buried out of that
prison pen still alive. I have the testimony of a surgeon that he had seen them pull'd out
of the dead cart with their eyes open and taking notice, but too weak to lift a finger. There
was not the least excuse for such treatment, as the confederate government had seized every
sawmill in the region, and could just as well have put up shelter for these prisoners as not,
wood being plentiful here. It will be hard to make any honest man in Salisbury say that there
was the slightest necessity for those prisoners having to live in old tents, caves and holes
half-full of water. Representations were made to the Davis government against the officers
in charge of it, but no attention was paid to them. Promotion was the punishment for cruelty
there. The inmates were skeletons. Hell could have no terrors for any man who died there, except
the inhuman keepers.'"

DEATH OF A PENNSYLVANIA SOLDIER

Frank H. Irwin, company E, 93rd Pennsylvania--died May 1, '65--My letter to his mother--Dear
madam: No doubt you and Frank's friends have heard the sad fact of his death in hospital here,
through his uncle, or the lady from Baltimore, who took his things. (I have not seen them,
only heard of them visiting Frank.) I will write you a few lines--as a casual friend that sat
by his death-bed. Your son, corporal Frank H. Irwin, was wounded near fort Fisher, Virginia,
March 25th, 1865--the wound was in the left knee, pretty bad. He was sent up to Washington,
was receiv'd in ward C, Armory-square hospital, March 28th--the wound became worse, and on
the 4th of April the leg was amputated a little above the knee--the operation was perform'
d by Dr. Bliss, one of the best surgeons in the army--he did the whole operation himself--there
was a good deal of bad matter gather'd--the bullet was found in the knee. For a couple of weeks
afterwards he was doing pretty well. I visited and sat by him frequently, as he was fond of
having me. The last ten or twelve days of April I saw that his case was critical. He previously
had some fever, with cold spells. The last week in April he was much of the time flighty--but
always mild and gentle. He died first of May. The actual cause of death was pyaemia, (the absorption
of the matter in the system instead of its discharge.) Frank, as far as I saw, had everything
requisite in surgical treatment, nursing, &c. He had watches much of the time. He was so good
and well-behaved and affectionate, I myself liked him very much. I was in the habit of coming
in afternoons and sitting by him, and soothing him, and he liked to have me--liked to put his
arm out and lay his hand on my knee--would keep it so a long while. Toward the last he was
more restless and flighty at night--often fancied himself with his regiment--by his talk sometimes
seem'd as if his feelings were hurt by being blamed by his officers for something he was entirely
innocent of--said, "I never in my life was thought capable of such a thing, and never was."
At other times he would fancy himself talking as it seem'd to children or such like, his relatives
I suppose, and giving them good advice; would talk to them a long while. All the time he was
out of his head not one single bad word or idea escaped him. It was remark'd that many a man's
conversation in his senses was not half as good as Frank's delirium. He seem'd quite willing
to die--he had become very weak and had suffer'd a good deal, and was perfectly resign'd, poor
boy. I do not know his past life, but I feel as if it must have been good.

I thought perhaps a few words, though from a stranger, about your son, from one who was with
him at the last, might be worth while--for I loved the young man, though I but saw him immediately
to lose him. I am merely a friend visiting the hospitals occasionally to cheer the wounded
and sick.

W. W.

THE ARMIES RETURNING

May 7.--Sunday.--To-day as I was walking a mile or two south of Alexandria, I fell in with
several large squads of the returning Western army, (Sherman's men as they call'd themselves)
about a thousand in all, the largest portion of them half sick, some convalescents, on their
way to a hospital camp. These fragmentary excerpts, with the unmistakable Western physiognomy
and idioms, crawling along slowly--after a great campaign, blown this way, as it were, out
of their latitude--I mark'd with curiosity, and talk'd with off and on for over an hour. Here
and there was one very sick; but all were able to walk, except some of the last, who had given
out, and were seated on the ground, faint and despondent. These I tried to cheer, told them
the camp they were to reach was only a little way further over the hill, and so got them up
and started, accompanying some of the worst a little way, and helping them, or putting them
under the support of stronger comrades.

May 21.--Saw General Sheridan and his cavalry to-day; a strong, attractive sight; the men were
mostly young, (a few middle-aged,) superb-looking fellows, brown, spare, keen, with well-worn
clothing, many with pieces of water-proof cloth around their shoulders, hanging down. They
dash'd along pretty fast, in wide close ranks, all spatter'd with mud; no holiday soldiers;
brigade after brigade. I could have watch'd for a week. Sheridan stood on a balcony, under
a big tree, coolly smoking a cigar. His looks and manner impress'd me favorably.

May 22.--Have been taking a walk along Pennsylvania avenue and Seventh street north. The city
is full of soldiers, running around loose. Officers everywhere, of all grades. All have the
weatherbeaten look of practical service. It is a sight I never tire of. All the armies are
now here (or portions of them,) for to-morrow's review. You see them swarming like bees everywhere.

THE GRAND REVIEW

For two days now the broad spaces of Pennsylvania avenue along to Treasury hill, and so by
detour around to the President's house, and so up to Georgetown, and across the aqueduct bridge,
have been alive with a magnificent sight, the returning armies. In their wide ranks stretching
clear across the Avenue, I watch them march or ride along, at a brisk pace, through two whole
days--infantry, cavalry, artillery--some 200,000 men. Some days afterwards one or two other
corps; and then, still afterwards, a good part of Sherman's immense army, brought up from Charleston,
Savannah, &c.

WESTERN SOLDIERS

May 26-7.--The streets, the public buildings and grounds of Washington, still swarm with soldiers
from Illinois, Indiana, Ohio, Missouri, Iowa, and all the Western States. I am continually
meeting and talking with them. They often speak to me first, and always show great sociability,
and glad to have a good interchange of chat. These Western soldiers are more slow in their
movements, and in their intellectual quality also; have no extreme alertness. They are larger
in size, have a more serious physiognomy, are continually looking at you as they pass in the
street. They are largely animal, and handsomely so. During the war I have been at times with
the Fourteenth, Fifteenth, Seventeenth, and Twentieth Corps. I always feel drawn toward the
men, and like their personal contact when we are crowded close together, as frequently these
days in the street-cars. They all think the world of General Sherman; call him "old Bill,"
or sometimes "uncle Billy."

A SOLDIER ON LINCOLN

May 28.--As I sat by the bedside of a sick Michigan soldier in hospital to-day, a convalescent
from the adjoining bed rose and came to me, and presently we began talking. He was a middleaged
man, belonged to the 2d Virginia regiment, but lived in Racine, Ohio, and had a family there.
He spoke of President Lincoln, and said: "The war is over, and many are lost. And now we have
lost the best, the fairest, the truest man in America. Take him altogether, he was the best
man this country ever produced. It was quite a while I thought very different; but some time
before the murder, that's the way I have seen it." There was deep earnestness in the soldier.
(I found upon further talk he had known Mr. Lincoln personally, and quite closely, years before.)
He was a veteran; was now in the fifth year of his service; was a cavalry man, and had been
in a good deal of hard fighting.

TWO BROTHERS, ONE SOUTH, ONE NORTH

May 28-9.--I staid to-night a long time by the bedside of a new patient, a young Baltimorean,
aged about 19 years, W. S. P., (2d Maryland, southern,) very feeble, right leg amputated, can't
sleep hardly at all--has taken a great deal of morphine, which, as usual, is costing more than
it comes to. Evidently very intelligent and well bred--very affectionate--held on to my hand,
and put it by his face, not willing to let me leave. As I was lingering, soothing him in his
pain, he says to me suddenly, "I hardly think you know who I am--I don't wish to impose upon
you--I am a rebel soldier." I said I did not know that, but it made no difference. Visiting
him daily for about two weeks after that, while he lived, (death had mark'd him, and he was
quite alone,) I loved him much, always kiss'd him, and he did me. In an adjoining ward I found
his brother, an officer of rank, a Union soldier, a brave and religious man, (Col. Clifton
K. Prentiss, sixth Maryland infantry, Sixth corps, wounded in one of the engagements at Petersburgh,
April 2--linger'd, suffer'd much, died in Brooklyn, Aug. 20, '65). It was in the same battle
both were hit. One was a strong Unionist, the other Secesh; both fought on their respective
sides, both badly wounded, and both brought together here after a separation of four years.
Each died for his cause.

SOME SAD CASES YET

May 31.--James H. Williams, aged 21, 3d Virginia cavalry.-About as mark'd a case of a strong
man brought low by a complication of diseases, (laryngitis, fever, debility and diarrhoea,)
as I have ever seen--has superb physique, remains swarthy yet, and flushed and red with fever-is
altogether flighty--flesh of his great breast and arms tremulous, and pulse pounding away with
treble quickness--lies a good deal of the time in a partial sleep, but with low muttering and
groans--a sleep in which there is no rest. Powerful as he is, and so young, he will not be
able to stand many more days of the strain and sapping heat of yesterday and to-day. His throat
is in a bad way, tongue and lips parch'd. When I ask him how he feels, he is able just to articulate,
"I feel pretty bad yet, old man," and looks at me with his great bright eyes. Father, John
Williams, Millensport, Ohio.

June 9-10.--I have been sitting late to-night by the bedside of a wounded captain, a special
friend of mine, lying with a painful fracture of left leg in one of the hospitals, in a large
ward partially vacant. The lights were put out, all but a little candle, far from where I sat.
The full moon shone in through the windows, making long, slanting silvery patches on the floor.
All was still, my friend too was silent, but could not sleep; so I sat there by him, slowly
wafting the fan, and occupied with the musings that arose out of the scene, the long shadowy
ward, the beautiful ghostly moonlight on the floor, the white beds, here and there an occupant
with huddled form, the bed-clothes thrown off. The hospitals have a number of cases of sun-stroke
and exhaustion by heat, from the late reviews. There are many such from the Sixth corps, from
the hot parade of day before yesterday. (Some of these shows cost the lives of scores of men.)

Sunday, Sep. 10.--Visited Douglas and Stanton hospitals. They are quite full. Many of the cases
are bad ones, lingering wounds, and old sickness. There is a more than usual look of despair
on the countenances of many of the men; hope has left them. I went through the wards, talking
as usual. There are several here from the confederate army whom I had seen in other hospitals,
and they recognized me. Two were in a dying condition.

CALHOUN'S REAL MONUMENT

In one of the hospital tents for special cases, as I sat to-day tending a new amputation, I
heard a couple of neighboring soldiers talking to each other from their cots. One down with
fever, but improving, had come up belated from Charleston not long before. The other was what
we now call an "old veteran," (i.e., he was a Connecticut youth, probably of less than the
age of twenty-five years, the four last of which he had spent in active service in the war
in all parts of the country.) The two were chatting of one thing and another. The fever soldier
spoke of John C. Calhoun's monument, which he had seen, and was describing it. The veteran
said: "I have seen Calhoun's monument. That you saw is not the real monument. But I have seen
it. It is the desolated, ruined south; nearly the whole generation of young men between seventeen
and thirty destroyed or maim'd; all the old families used up--the rich impoverish'd, the plantations
cover'd with weeds, the slaves unloos'd and become the masters, and the name of southerner
blacken'd with every shame--all that is Calhoun's real monument."

HOSPITALS CLOSING

October 3.--There are two army hospitals now remaining. I went to the largest of these (Douglas)
and spent the afternoon and evening. There are many sad cases, old wounds, incurable sickness,
and some of the wounded from the March and April battles before Richmond. Few realize how sharp
and bloody those closing battles were. Our men exposed themselves more than usual; press'd
ahead without urging. Then the southerners fought with extra desperation. Both sides knew that
with the successful chasing of the rebel cabal from Richmond, and the occupation of that city
by the national troops, the game was up. The dead and wounded were unusually many. Of the wounded
the last lingering driblets have been brought to hospital here. I find many rebel wounded here,
and have been extra busy to-day 'tending to the worst cases of them with the rest.

Oct., Nov. and Dec., '65--Sundays--Every Sunday of these months visited Harewood hospital out
in the woods, pleasant and recluse, some two and a half or three miles north of the capitol.
The situation is healthy, with broken ground, grassy slopes and patches of oak woods, the trees
large and fine. It was one of the most extensive of the hospitals, now reduced to four or five
partially occupied wards, the numerous others being vacant. In November, this became the last
military hospital kept up by the government, all the others being closed. Cases of the worst
and most incurable wounds, obstinate illness, and of poor fellows who have no homes to go to,
are found here.

Dec. 10--Sunday--Again spending a good part of the day at Harewood. I write this about an hour
before sundown. I have walk'd out for a few minutes to the edge of the woods to soothe myself
with the hour and scene. It is a glorious, warm, golden-sunny, still afternoon. The only noise
is from a crowd of cawing crows, on some trees three hundred yards distant. Clusters of gnats
swimming and dancing in the air in all directions. The oak leaves are thick under the bare
trees, and give a strong and delicious perfume. Inside the wards everything is gloomy. Death
is there. As I enter'd, I was confronted by it the first thing; a corpse of a poor soldier,
just dead, of typhoid fever. The attendants had just straighten'd the limbs, put coppers on
the eyes, and were laying it out.

The roads--A great recreation, the past three years, has been in taking long walks out from
Washington, five, seven, perhaps ten miles and back; generally with my friend Peter Doyle,
who is as fond of it as I am. Fine moonlight nights, over the perfect military roads, hard
and smooth--or Sundays--we had these delightful walks, never to be forgotten. The roads connecting
Washington and the numerous forts around the city, made one useful result, at any rate, out
of the war.

TYPICAL SOLDIERS

Even the typical soldiers I have been personally intimate with,--it seems to me if I were to
make a list of them it would be like a city directory. Some few only have I mention'd in the
foregoing pages--most are dead--a few yet living. There is Reuben Farwell, of Michigan, (little
"Mitch;") Benton H. Wilson, color-bearer, 185th New York; Wm. Stansberry; Manvill Winterstein,
Ohio; Bethuel Smith; Capt. Simms, of 51st New York, (kill'd at Petersburgh mine explosion,)
Capt. Sam. Pooley and Lieut. Fred. McReady, same reg't. Also, same reg't., my brother, George
W. Whitman--in active service all through, four years, re-enlisting twice--was promoted, step
by step, (several times immediately after battles,) lieutenant, captain, major and lieut. colonel--was
in the actions at Roanoke, Newbern, 2d Bull Run, Chantilly, South Mountain, Antietam, Fredericksburgh,
Vicksburgh, Jackson, the bloody conflicts of the Wilderness, and at Spottsylvania, Cold Harbor,
and afterwards around Petersburgh; at one of these latter was taken prisoner, and pass'd four
or five months in secesh military prisons, narrowly escaping with life, from a severe fever,
from starvation and half-nakedness in the winter. (What a history that 51st New York had! Went
out early--march'd, fought everywhere--was in storms at sea, nearly wreck'd--storm'd forts--tramp'd
hither and yon in Virginia, night and day, summer of '62--afterwards Kentucky and Mississippi--re-enlisted--was
in all the engagements and campaigns, as above.) I strengthen and comfort myself much with
the certainty that the capacity for just such regiments, (hundreds, thousands of them) is inexhaustible
in the United States, and that there isn't a county nor a township in the republic--nor a street
in any city--but could turn out, and, on occasion, would turn out, lots of just such typical
soldiers, whenever wanted.

"CONVULSIVENESS"

As I have look'd over the proof-sheets of the preceding pages, I have once or twice fear'd
that my diary would prove, at best, but a batch of convulsively written reminiscences. Well,
be it so.

They are but parts of the actual distraction, heat, smoke and excitement of those times. The
war itself, with the temper of society preceding it, can indeed be best described by that very
word convulsiveness.

THREE YEARS SUMM'D UP

During those three years in hospital, camp or field, I made over six hundred visits or tours,
and went, as I estimate, counting all, among from eighty thousand to a hundred thousand of
the wounded and sick, as sustainer of spirit and body in some degree, in time of need. These
visits varied from an hour or two, to all day or night; for with dear or critical cases I generally
watch'd all night. Sometimes I took up my quarters in the hospital, and slept or watch'd there
several nights in succession. Those three years I consider the greatest privilege and satisfaction,
(with all their feverish excitements and physical deprivations and lamentable sights,) and,
of course, the most profound lesson of my life. I can say that in my ministerings I comprehended
all, whoever came in my way, northern or southern, and slighted none. It arous'd and brought
out and decided undream'd-of depths of emotion. It has given me my most fervent views of the
true ensemble and extent of the States. While I was with wounded and sick in thousands of cases
from the New England States, and from New York, New Jersey, and Pennsylvania, and from Michigan,
Wisconsin, Ohio, Indiana, Illinois, and all the Western States, I was with more or less from
all the States, North and South, without exception. I was with many from the border States,
especially from Maryland and Virginia, and found, during those lurid years 1862-63, far more
Union southerners, especially Tennesseans, than is supposed. I was with many rebel officers
and men among our wounded, and gave them always what I had, and tried to cheer them the same
as any. I was among the army teamsters considerably, and, indeed, always found myself drawn
to them. Among the black soldiers, wounded or sick, and in the contraband camps, I also took
my way whenever in their neighborhood, and did what I could for them.

THE MILLION DEAD, TOO, SUMM'D UP

The dead in this war--there they lie, strewing the fields and woods and valleys and battle-fields
of the south--Virginia, the Peninsula--Malvern hill and Fair Oaks--the banks of the Chickahominy--the
terraces of Fredericksburgh--Antietam bridge--the grisly ravines of Manassas--the bloody promenade
of the Wilderness--the varieties of the strayed dead, (the estimate of the War department is
25,000 national soldiers kill'd in battle and never buried at all, 5,000 drown'd--15,000 inhumed
by strangers, or on the march in haste, in hitherto unfound localities--2,000 graves cover'd
by sand and mud by Mississippi freshets, 3,000 carried away by caving-in of banks, &c.,)--Gettysburgh,
the West, Southwest --Vicksburgh--Chattanooga--the trenches of Petersburgh--the numberless
battles, camps, hospitals everywhere--the crop reap'd by the mighty reapers, typhoid, dysentery,
inflammations--and blackest and loathesomest of all, the dead and living burial-pits, the prison-pens
of Andersonville, Salisbury, Belle-Isle, &c., (not Dante's pictured hell and all its woes,
its degradations, filthy torments, excell'd those prisons)--the dead, the dead, the dead--our
dead--or South or North, ours all, (all, all, all, finally dear to me)--or East or West--Atlantic
coast or Mississippi valley--somewhere they crawl'd to die, alone, in bushes, low gullies,
or on the sides of hills--(there, in secluded spots, their skeletons, bleach'd bones, tufts
of hair, buttons, fragments of clothing, are occasionally found yet)--our young men once so
handsome and so joyous, taken from us--the son from the mother, the husband from the wife,
the dear friend from the dear friend--the clusters of camp graves, in Georgia, the Carolinas,
and in Tennessee--the single graves left in the woods or by the roadside, (hundreds, thousands,
obliterated)--the corpses floated down the rivers, and caught and lodged, (dozens, scores,
floated down the upper Potomac, after the cavalry engagements, the pursuit of Lee, following
Gettysburgh)--some lie at the bottom of the sea--the general million, and the special cemeteries
in almost all the States--the infinite dead--(the land entire saturated, perfumed with their
impalpable ashes' exhalation in Nature's chemistry distill'd, and shall be so forever, in every
future grain of wheat and ear of corn, and every flower that grows, and every breath we draw)--not
only Northern dead leavening Southern soil--thousands, aye tens of thousands, of Southerners,
crumble to-day in Northern earth.

And everywhere among these countless graves--everywhere in the many soldier Cemeteries of the
Nation, (there are now, I believe, over seventy of them)--as at the time in the vast trenches,
the depositories of slain, Northern and Southern, after the great battles--not only where the
scathing trail passed those years, but radiating since in all the peaceful quarters of the
land--we see, and ages yet may see, on monuments and gravestones, singly or in masses, to thousands
or tens of thousands, the significant word UNKNOWN.

(In some of the cemeteries nearly all the dead are unknown. At Salisbury, N. C., for instance,
the known are only 85, while the unknown are 12,027, and 11,700 of these are buried in trenches.
A national monument has been put up here, by order of Congress, to mark the spot--but what
visible, material monument can ever fittingly commemorate that spot?)

THE REAL WAR WILL NEVER GET IN THE BOOKS

And so good-bye to the war. I know not how it may have been, or may be, to others--to me the
main interest I found, (and still, on recollection, find,) in the rank and file of the armies,
both sides, and in those specimens amid the hospitals, and even the dead on the field. To me
the points illustrating the latent personal character and eligibilities of these States, in
the two or three millions of American young and middle-aged men, North and South, embodied
in those armies--and especially the one-third or one-fourth of their number, stricken by wounds
or disease at some time in the course of the contest--were of more significance even than the
political interests involved. (As so much of a race depends on how it faces death, and how
it stands personal anguish and sickness. As, in the glints of emotions under emergencies, and
the indirect traits and asides in Plutarch, we get far profounder clues to the antique world
than all its more formal history.)

Future years will never know the seething hell and the black infernal background of countless
minor scenes and interiors, (not the official surface-courteousness of the Generals, not the
few great battles) of the Secession war; and it is best they should not--the real war will
never get in the books. In the mushy influences of current times, too, the fervid atmosphere
and typical events of those years are in danger of being totally forgotten. I have at night
watch'd by the side of a sick man in the hospital, one who could not live many hours. I have
seen his eyes flash and burn as he raised himself and recurr'd to the cruelties on his surrender'd
brother, and mutilations of the corpse afterward. (See in the preceding pages, the incident
at Upperville--the seventeen kill'd as in the description, were left there on the ground. After
they dropt dead, no one touch'd them--all were made sure of, however. The carcasses were left
for the citizens to bury or not, as they chose.)

Such was the war. It was not a quadrille in a ball-room. Its interior history will not only
never be written--its practicality, minutia; of deeds and passions, will never be even suggested.
The actual soldier of 1862-'65, North and South, with all his ways, his incredible dauntlessness,
habits, practices, tastes, language, his fierce friendship, his appetite, rankness, his superb
strength and animality, lawless gait, and a hundred unnamed lights and shades of camp, I say,
will never be written--perhaps must not and should not be.

The preceding notes may furnish a few stray glimpses into that life, and into those lurid interiors,
never to be fully convey'd to the future. The hospital part of the drama from '61 to '65, deserves
indeed to be recorded. Of that many-threaded drama, with its sudden and strange surprises,
its confounding of prophecies, its moments of despair, the dread of foreign interference, the
interminable campaigns, the bloody battles, the mighty and cumbrous and green armies, the drafts
and bounties--the immense money expenditure, like a heavy-pouring constant rain--with, over
the whole land, the last three years of the struggle, an unending, universal mourning-wail
of women, parents, orphans--the marrow of the tragedy concentrated in those Army Hospitals--(it
seem'd sometimes as if the whole interest of the land, North and South, was one vast central
hospital, and all the rest of the affair but flanges)--those forming the untold and unwritten
history of the war--infinitely greater (like life's) than the few scraps and distortions that
are ever told or written. Think how much, and of importance, will be--how much, civic and military,
has already been --buried in the grave, in eternal darkness.

AN INTERREGNUM PARAGRAPH

Several years now elapse before I resume my diary. I continued at Washington working in the
Attorney-General's department through '66 and '67, and some time afterward. In February '73
I was stricken down by paralysis, gave up my desk, and migrated to Camden, New Jersey, where
I lived during '74 and '75, quite unwell--but after that began to grow better; commenc'd going
for weeks at a time, even for months, down in the country, to a charmingly recluse and rural
spot along Timber creek, twelve or thirteen miles from where it enters the Delaware river.
Domicil'd at the farm-house of my friends, the Staffords, near by, I lived half the time along
this creek and its adjacent fields and lanes. And it is to my life here that I, perhaps, owe
partial recovery (a sort of second wind, or semi-renewal of the lease of life) from the prostration
of 1874-'75. If the notes of that outdoor life could only prove as glowing to you, reader dear,
as the experience itself was to me. Doubtless in the course of the following, the fact of invalidism
will crop out, (I call myself a half-Paralytic these days, and reverently bless the Lord it
is no worse,) between some of the lines--but I get my share of fun and healthy hours, and shall
try to indicate them. (The trick is, I find, to tone your wants and tastes low down enough,
and make much of negatives, and of mere daylight and the skies.)

NEW THEMES ENTERED UPON

1876, '77.--I find the woods in mid-May and early June my best places for composition.[9] Seated
on logs or stumps there, or resting on rails, nearly all the following memoranda have been
jotted down. Wherever I go, indeed, winter or summer, city or country, alone at home or traveling,
I must take notes--(the ruling passion strong in age and disablement, and even the approach
of--but I must not say it yet.) Then underneath the following excerpta--crossing the t's and
dotting the i's of certain moderate movements of late years--I am fain to fancy the foundations
of quite a lesson learn'd. After you have exhausted what there is in business, politics, conviviality,
love, and so on--have found that none of these finally satisfy, or permanently wear--what remains?
Nature remains; to bring out from their torpid recesses, the affinities of a man or woman with
the open air, the trees, fields, the changes of seasons--the sun by day and the stars of heaven
by night. We will begin from these convictions. Literature flies so high and is so hotly spiced,
that our notes may seem hardly more than breaths of common air, or draughts of water to drink.
But that is part of our lesson.

Dear, soothing, healthy, restoration-hours--after three confining years of paralysis--after
the long strain of the war, and its wounds and death.

Note:

[9] Without apology for the abrupt change of field and atmosphere--after what I have put in
the preceding fifty or sixty pages--temporary episodes, thank heaven!--I restore my book to
the bracing and buoyant equilibrium of concrete outdoor Nature, the only permanent reliance
for sanity of book or human life.

Who knows, (I have it in my fancy, my ambition,) but the pages now ensuing may carry ray of
sun, or smell of grass or corn, or call of bird, or gleam of stars by night, or snow-flakes
falling fresh and mystic, to denizen of heated city house, or tired workman or workwoman?--or
may-be in sick-room or prison--to serve as cooling breeze, or Nature's aroma, to some fever'd
mouth or latent pulse.

ENTERING A LONG FARM-LANE

As every man has his hobby-liking, mine is for a real farm-lane fenced by old chestnut-rails
gray-green with dabs of moss and lichen, copious weeds and briers growing in spots athwart
the heaps of stray-pick' d stones at the fence bases--irregular paths worn between, and horse
and cow tracks--all characteristic accompaniments marking and scenting the neighborhood in
their seasons--apple-tree blossoms in forward April--pigs, poultry, a field of August buckwheat,
and in another the long flapping tassels of maize--and so to the pond, the expansion of the
creek, the secluded-beautiful, with young and old trees, and such recesses and vistas.

TO THE SPRING AND BROOK

So, still sauntering on, to the spring under the willows--musical as soft clinking glasses-pouring
a sizeable stream, thick as my neck, pure and clear, out from its vent where the bank arches
over like a great brown shaggy eyebrow or mouth-roof--gurgling, gurgling ceaselessly--meaning,
saying something, of course (if one could only translate it)--always gurgling there, the whole
year through--never giving out--oceans of mint, blackberries in summer--choice of light and
shade--just the place for my July sun-baths and water-baths too--but mainly the inimitable
soft sound-gurgles of it, as I sit there hot afternoons. How they and all grow into me, day
after day--everything in keeping--the wild, just-palpable perfume, and the dappled leaf-shadows,
and all the natural-medicinal, elemental-moral influences of the spot.

Babble on, O brook, with that utterance of thine! I too will express what I have gather'd in
my days and progress, native, subterranean, past--and now thee. Spin and wind thy way--I with
thee, a little while, at any rate. As I haunt thee so often, season by season, thou knowest,
reckest not me, (yet why be so certain? who can tell?)--but I will learn from thee, and dwell
on thee--receive, copy, print from thee.

AN EARLY SUMMER REVEILLE

Away then to loosen, to unstring the divine bow, so tense, so long. Away, from curtain, carpet,
sofa, book--from "society"--from city house, street, and modern improvements and luxuries--away
to the primitive winding, aforementioned wooded creek, with its untrimm'd bushes and turfy
banks--away from ligatures, tight boots, buttons, and the whole cast-iron civilized life--from
entourage of artificial store, machine, studio, office, parlor--from tailordom and fashion's
clothes--from any clothes, perhaps, for the nonce, the summer heats advancing, there in those
watery, shaded solitudes. Away, thou soul, (let me pick thee out singly, reader dear, and talk
in perfect freedom, negligently, confidentially,) for one day and night at least, returning
to the naked source-life of us all--to the breast of the great silent savage all-acceptive
Mother. Alas! how many of us are so sodden--how many have wander'd so far away, that return
is almost impossible.

But to my jottings, taking them as they come, from the heap, without particular selection.
There is little consecutiveness in dates. They run any time within nearly five or six years.
Each was carelessly pencilled in the open air, at the time and place. The printers will learn
this to some vexation perhaps, as much of their copy is from those hastily-written first notes.

BIRDS MIGRATING AT MIDNIGHT

Did you ever chance to hear the midnight flight of birds passing through the air and darkness
overhead, in countless armies, changing their early or late summer habitat? It is something
not to be forgotten. A friend called me up just after 12 last night to mark the peculiar noise
of unusually immense flocks migrating north (rather late this year.) In the silence, shadow
and delicious odor of the hour, (the natural perfume belonging to the night alone,) I thought
it rare music. You could hear the characteristic motion--once or twice "the rush of mighty
wings," but often a velvety rustle, long drawn out--sometimes quite near--with continual calls
and chirps, and some song-notes. It all lasted from 12 till after 3. Once in a while the species
was plainly distinguishable; I could make out the bobolink, tanager, Wilson's thrush, white-crown'd
sparrow, and occasionally from high in the air came the notes of the plover.

BUMBLE-BEES

May-month--month of swarming, singing, mating birds--the bumble-bee month--month of the flowering
lilac-(and then my own birth-month.) As I jot this paragraph, I am out just after sunrise,
and down towards the creek. The lights, perfumes, melodies--the blue birds, grass birds and
robins, in every direction--the noisy, vocal, natural concert. For undertones, a neighboring
wood-pecker tapping his tree, and the distant clarion of chanticleer. Then the fresh-earth
smells--the colors, the delicate drabs and thin blues of the perspective. The bright green
of the grass has receiv'd an added tinge from the last two days' mildness and moisture. How
the sun silently mounts in the broad clear sky, on his day's journey! How the warm beams bathe
all, and come streaming kissingly and almost hot on my face.

A while since the croaking of the pond-frogs and the first white of the dog-wood blossoms.
Now the golden dandelions in endless profusion, spotting the ground everywhere. The white cherry
and pear-blows--the wild violets, with their blue eyes looking up and saluting my feet, as
I saunter the wood-edge--the rosy blush of budding apple-trees--the light-clear emerald hue
of the wheat-fields--the darker green of the rye--a warm elasticity pervading the air--the
cedar-bushes profusely deck'd with their little brown apples--the summer fully awakening--the
convocation of black birds, garrulous flocks of them, gathering on some tree, and making the
hour and place noisy as I sit near.

Later.--Nature marches in procession, in sections, like the corps of an army. All have done
much for me, and still do. But for the last two days it has been the great wild bee, the humble-bee,
or "bumble," as the children call him. As I walk, or hobble, from the farm-house down to the
creek, I traverse the before-mention'd lane, fenced by old rails, with many splits, splinters,
breaks, holes, &c., the choice habitat of those crooning, hairy insects. Up and down and by
and between these rails, they swarm and dart and fly in countless myriads. As I wend slowly
along, I am often accompanied with a moving cloud of them. They play a leading part in my morning,
midday or sunset rambles, and often dominate the landscape in a way I never before thought
of--fill the long lane, not by scores or hundreds only, but by thousands. Large and vivacious
and swift, with wonderful momentum and a loud swelling, perpetual hum, varied now and then
by something almost like a shriek, they dart to and fro, in rapid flashes, chasing each other,
and (little things as they are,) conveying to me a new and pronounc'd sense of strength, beauty,
vitality and movement. Are they in their mating season? or what is the meaning of this plenitude,
swiftness, eagerness, display? As I walk'd, I thought I was follow'd by a particular swarm,
but upon observation I saw that it was a rapid succession of changing swarms, one after another.

As I write, I am seated under a big wild-cherry tree--the warm day temper'd by partial clouds
and a fresh breeze, neither too heavy nor light--and here I sit long and long, envelop'd in
the deep musical drone of these bees, flitting, balancing, darting to and fro about me by hundreds--big
fellows with light yellow jackets, great glistening swelling bodies, stumpy heads and gauzy
wings--humming their perpetual rich mellow boom. (Is there not a hint in it for a musical composition,
of which it should be the back-ground? some bumble-bee symphony?) How it all nourishes, lulls
me, in the way most needed; the open air, the rye-fields, the apple orchards. The last two
days have been faultless in sun, breeze, temperature and everything; never two more perfect
days, and I have enjoy'd them wonderfully. My health is somewhat better, and my spirit at peace.
(Yet the anniversary of the saddest loss and sorrow of my life is close at hand.)

Another jotting, another perfect day: forenoon, from 7 to 9, two hours envelop'd in sound of
bumble-bees and bird-music. Down in the apple-trees and in a neighboring cedar were three or
four russet-back'd thrushes, each singing his best, and roulading in ways I never heard surpass'd.
Two hours I abandon myself to hearing them, and indolently absorbing the scene. Almost every
bird I notice has a special time in the year--sometimes limited to a few days--when it sings
its best; and now is the period of these russet-backs. Meanwhile, up and down the lane, the
darting, droning, musical bumble-bees. A great swarm again for my entourage as I return home,
moving along with me as before.

As I write this, two or three weeks later, I am sitting near the brook under a tulip tree,
70 feet high, thick with the fresh verdure of its young maturity--a beautiful object--every
branch, every leaf perfect. From top to bottom, seeking the sweet juice in the blossoms, it
swarms with myriads of these wild bees, whose loud and steady humming makes an undertone to
the whole, and to my mood and the hour. All of which I will bring to a close by extracting
the following verses from Henry A. Beers's little volume:

    As I lay yonder in tall grass
    A drunken bumble-bee went past

    Delirious with honey toddy.
    The golden sash about his body
    Scarce kept it in his swollen belly
    Distent with honeysuckle jelly.
    Rose liquor and the sweet-pea wine
    Had fill' d his soul with song divine;
    Deep had he drunk the warm night through,
    His hairy thighs were wet with dew.
    Full many an antic he had play'd
    While the world went round through sleep and shade.
    Oft had he lit with thirsty lip
    Some flower-cup's nectar'd sweets to sip,
    When on smooth petals he would slip,
    Or over tangled stamens trip,
    And headlong in the pollen roll'd,
    Crawl out quite dusted o'er with gold;
    Or else his heavy feet would stumble
    Against some bud, and down he'd tumble
    Amongst the grass; there lie and grumble
    In low, soft bass--poor maudlin bumble!

CEDAR-APPLES

As I journey'd to-day in a light wagon ten or twelve miles through the country, nothing pleas'd
me more, in their homely beauty and novelty (I had either never seen the little things to such
advantage, or had never noticed them before) than that peculiar fruit, with its profuse clear-yellow
dangles of inch-long silk or yarn, in boundless profusion spotting the dark green cedar bushes--contrasting
well with their bronze tufts--the flossy shreds covering the knobs all over, like a shock of
wild hair on elfin pates. On my ramble afterward down by the creek I pluck'd one from its bush,
and shall keep it. These cedar-apples last only a little while however, and soon crumble and fade.

SUMMER SIGHTS AND INDOLENCIES

June 10th.--As I write, 5-1/2 P.M., here by the creek, nothing can exceed the quiet splendor
and freshness around me. We had a heavy shower, with brief thunder and lightning, in the middle
of the day; and since, overhead, one of those not uncommon yet indescribable skies (in quality,
not details or forms) of limpid blue, with rolling silver-fringed clouds, and a pure-dazzling
sun. For underlay, trees in fulness of tender foliage--liquid, reedy, long-drawn notes of birds--based
by the fretful mewing of a querulous cat-bird, and the pleasant chippering-shriek of two kingfishers.
I have been watching the latter the last half hour, on their regular evening frolic over and
in the stream; evidently a spree of the liveliest kind. They pursue each other, whirling and
wheeling around, with many a jocund downward dip, splashing the spray in jets of diamonds--and
then off they swoop, with slanting wings and graceful flight, sometimes so near me I can plainly
see their dark-gray feather-bodies and milk-white necks.

SUNDOWN PERFUME--QUAILNOTES--THE HERMIT-THRUSH

June 19th, 4 to 6-1/2, P.M.--Sitting alone by the creek--solitude here, but the scene bright
and vivid enough--the sun shining, and quite a fresh wind blowing (some heavy showers last
night,) the grass and trees looking their best--the clare-obscure of different greens, shadows,
half-shadows, and the dappling glimpses of the water, through recesses--the wild flageolet-note
of a quail near by--the just-heard fretting of some hylas down there in the pond--crows cawing
in the distance--a drove of young hogs rooting in soft ground near the oak under which I sit--some
come sniffing near me, and then scamper away, with grunts. And still the clear notes of the
quail--the quiver of leaf-shadows over the paper as I write--the sky aloft, with white clouds,
and the sun well declining to the west--the swift darting of many sand-swallows coming and
going, their holes in a neighboring marl-bank--the odor of the cedar and oak, so palpable,
as evening approaches--perfume, color, the bronze-and-gold of nearly ripen'd wheat--clover-fields,
with honey-scent--the well-up maize, with long and rustling leaves--the great patches of thriving
potatoes, dusky green, fleck'd all over with white blossoms--the old, warty, venerable oak
above me--and ever, mix'd with the dual notes of the quail, the soughing of the wind through
some near-by pines.

As I rise for return, I linger long to a delicious song-epilogue (is it the hermit-thrush?)
from some bushy recess off there in the swamp, repeated leisurely and pensively over and over
again. This, to the circle-gambols of the swallows flying by dozens in concentric rings in
the last rays of sunset, like flashes of some airy wheel.

A JULY AFTER-NOON BY THE POND

The fervent heat, but so much more endurable in this pure air--the white and pink pond-blossoms,
with great heart-shaped leaves; the glassy waters of the creek, the banks, with dense bushery,
and the picturesque beeches and shade and turf; the tremulous, reedy call of some bird from
recesses, breaking the warm, indolent, half-voluptuous silence; an occasional wasp, hornet,
honey-bee or bumble (they hover near my hands or face, yet annoy me not, nor I them, as they
appear to examine, find nothing, and away they go)--the vast space of the sky overhead so clear,
and the buzzard up there sailing his slow whirl in majestic spirals and discs; just over the
surface of the pond, two large slate-color'd dragon-flies, with wings of lace, circling and
darting and occasionally balancing themselves quite still, their wings quivering all the time,
(are they not showing off for my amusement?)--the pond itself, with the sword-shaped calamus;
the water snakes--occasionally a flitting blackbird, with red dabs on his shoulders, as he
darts slantingly by--the sounds that bring out the solitude, warmth, light and shade--the quawk
of some pond duck--(the crickets and grasshoppers are mute in the noon heat, but I hear the
song of the first cicadas;)--then at some distance the rattle and whirr of a reaping machine
as the horses draw it on a rapid walk through a rye field on the opposite side of the creek--(what
was the yellow or light-brown bird, large as a young hen, with short neck and long-stretch'd
legs I just saw, in flapping and awkward flight over there through the trees?)--the prevailing
delicate, yet palpable, spicy, grassy, clovery perfume to my nostrils; and over all, encircling
all, to my sight and soul, the free space of the sky, transparent and blue--and hovering there
in the west, a mass of white-gray fleecy clouds the sailors call "shoals of mackerel"--the
sky, with silver swirls like locks of toss'd hair, spreading, expanding--a vast voiceless,
formless simulacrum--yet may-be the most real reality and formulator of everything--who knows?

LOCUSTS AND KATY-DIDS

Aug. 22.--Reedy monotones of locust, or sounds of katydid--I hear the latter at night, and
the other both day and night. I thought the morning and evening warble of birds delightful;
but I find I can listen to these strange insects with just as much pleasure. A single locust
is now heard near noon from a tree two hundred feet off, as I write--a long whirring, continued,
quite loud noise graded in distinct whirls, or swinging circles, increasing in strength and
rapidity up to a certain point, and then a fluttering, quietly tapering fall. Each strain is
continued from one to two minutes. The locust-song is very appropriate to the scene--gushes,
has meaning, is masculine, is like some fine old wine, not sweet, but far better than sweet.

But the katydid--how shall I describe its piquant utterances? One sings from a willow-tree
just outside my open bedroom window, twenty yards distant; every clear night for a fortnight
past has sooth'd me to sleep. I rode through a piece of woods for a hundred rods the other
evening, and heard the katydids by myriads--very curious for once; but I like better my single
neighbor on the tree. Let me say more about the song of the locust, even to repetition; a long,
chromatic, tremulous crescendo, like a brass disk whirling round and round, emitting wave after
wave of notes, beginning with a certain moderate beat or measure, rapidly increasing in speed
and emphasis, reaching a point of great energy and significance, and then quickly and gracefully
dropping down and out. Not the melody of the singing-bird--far from it; the common musician
might think without melody, but surely having to the finer ear a harmony of its own; monotonous--but
what a swing there is in that brassy drone, round and round, cymballine--or like the whirling
of brass quoits.

THE LESSON OF A TREE

Sept. 1.--I should not take either the biggest or the most picturesque tree to illustrate it.
Here is one of my favorites now before me, a fine yellow poplar, quite straight, perhaps 90
feet high, and four thick at the butt. How strong, vital, enduring! how dumbly eloquent! What
suggestions of imperturbability and being, as against the human trait of mere seeming. Then
the qualities, almost emotional, palpably artistic, heroic, of a tree; so innocent and harmless,
yet so savage. It is, yet says nothing. How it rebukes by its tough and equable serenity all
weathers, this gusty-temper'd little whiffet, man, that runs indoors at a mite of rain or snow.
Science (or rather half-way science) scoffs at reminiscence of dryad and hamadryad, and of
trees speaking. But, if they don't, they do as well as most speaking, writing, poetry, sermons--or
rather they do a great deal better. I should say indeed that those old dryad-reminiscences
are quite as true as any, and profounder than most reminiscences we get. ("Cut this out," as
the quack mediciners say, and keep by you.) Go and sit in a grove or woods, with one or more
of those voiceless companions, and read the foregoing, and think.

One lesson from affiliating a tree--perhaps the greatest moral lesson anyhow from earth, rocks,
animals, is that same lesson of inherency, of what is, without the least regard to what the
looker-on (the critic) supposes or says, or whether he likes or dislikes. What worse--what
more general malady pervades each and all of us, our literature, education, attitude toward
each other, (even toward ourselves,) than a morbid trouble about seems, (generally temporarily
seems too,) and no trouble at all, or hardly any, about the sane, slow-growing, perennial,
real parts of character, books, friendship, marriage--humanity's invisible foundations and
hold-together? (As the all-basis, the nerve, the great-sympathetic, the plenum within humanity,
giving stamp to everything, is necessarily invisible.)

Aug. 4, 6 P.M.--Lights and shades and rare effects on tree-foliage and grass--transparent greens,
grays, &c., all in sunset pomp and dazzle. The clear beams are now thrown in many new places,
on the quilted, seam'd, bronze-drab, lower tree-trunks, shadow'd except at this hour--now flooding
their young and old columnar ruggedness with strong light, unfolding to my sense new amazing
features of silent, shaggy charm, the solid bark, the expression of harmless impassiveness,
with many a bulge and gnarl unreck'd before. In the revealings of such light, such exceptional
hour, such mood, one does not wonder at the old story fables, (indeed, why fables?) of people
falling into love-sickness with trees, seiz'd extatic with the mystic realism of the resistless
silent strength in them--strength, which after all is perhaps the last, completest, highest beauty.

Trees I am familiar with here.

Oaks, (many kinds--one sturdy                       Willows.
  old fellow, vital, green, bushy,                  Catalpas.
  five feet thick at the butt, I sit                Persimmons.
  under every day,)                                 Mountain-ash.
Cedars plenty.                                      Hickories.
Tulip trees, (Liriodendron,) is of                Maples, many kinds.
  the magnolia family--I have                       Locusts.
  seen it in Michigan and southern                  Birches.
  Illinois, 140 feet high and                       Dogwood.
  8 feet thick at the butt [A]; does                Pine.
  not transplant well; best rais'd                  the Elm.
  from seeds--the lumbermen                         Chesnut.
  call it yellow poplar.)                           Linden.
Sycamores.                                          Aspen.
Gum trees, both sweet and sour.                     Spruce.
Beeches.                                            Hornbeam.
Black-walnuts.                                      Laurel.
Sassafras.                                          Holly.

AUTUMN SIDE-BITS

Sept. 20.--Under an old black oak, glossy and green, exhaling aroma--amid a grove the Albic
druids might have chosen--envelop'd in the warmth and light of the noonday sun, and swarms[10]
of flitting insects--with the harsh cawing of many crows a hundred rods away--here I sit in
solitude, absorbing, enjoying all. The corn, stack'd in its cone-shaped stacks, russet-color'd
and sere--a large field spotted thick with scarlet-gold pumpkins--an adjoining one of cabbages,
showing well in their green and pearl, mottled by much light and shade--melon patches, with
their bulging ovals, and great silver-streak'd, ruffled, broad-edged leaves--and many an autumn
sight and sound beside--the distant scream of a flock of guinea-hens--and pour'd over all the
September breeze, with pensive cadence through the tree tops.

Another Day.--The ground in all directions strew'd with debris from a storm. Timber creek,
as I slowly pace its banks, has ebb'd low, and shows reaction from the turbulent swell of the
late equinoctial. As I look around, I take account of stock--weeds and shrubs, knolls, paths,
occasional stumps, some with smooth'd tops, (several I use as seats of rest, from place to
place, and from one I am now jotting these lines,)--frequent wild-flowers, little white, star-shaped
things, or the cardinal red of the lobelia, or the cherry-ball seeds of the perennial rose,
or the many-threaded vines winding up and around trunks of trees.

Oct. 1, 2 and 3.--Down every day in the solitude of the creek. A serene autumn sun and westerly
breeze to-day (3d) as I sit here, the water surface prettily moving in wind-ripples before
me. On a stout old beech at the edge, decayed and slanting, almost fallen to the stream, yet
with life and leaves in its mossy limbs, a gray squirrel, exploring, runs up and down, flirts
his tail, leaps to the ground, sits on his haunches upright as he sees me, (a Darwinian hint?)
and then races up the tree again.

Oct. 4.--Cloudy and coolish; signs of incipient winter. Yet pleasant here, the leaves thick-falling,
the ground brown with them already; rich coloring, yellows of all hues, pale and dark-green,
shades from lightest to richest red--all set in and toned down by the prevailing brown of the
earth and gray of the sky. So, winter is coming; and I yet in my sickness. I sit here amid
all these fair sights and vital influences, and abandon myself to that thought, with its wandering
trains of speculation.

Note:

[10] There is a tulip poplar within sight of Woodstown, which is twenty feet around, three
feet from the ground, four feet across about eighteen feet up the trunk, which is broken off
about three or four feet higher up. On the south side an arm has shot out from which rise two
stems, each to about ninety-one or ninety-two feet from the ground. Twenty-five (or more) years
since the cavity in the butt was large enough for, and nine men at one time, ate dinner therein.
It is supposed twelve to fifteen men could now, at one time, stand within its trunk. The severe
winds of 1877 and 1878 did not seem to damage it, and the two stems send out yearly many blossoms,
scenting the air immediately about it with their sweet perfume. It is entirely unprotected
by other trees, on a hill.--Woodstown, N. J., "Register," April 15, '79.

THE SKY--DAYS AND NIGHTS--HAPPINESS

Oct. 20.--A clear, crispy day--dry and breezy air, full of oxygen. Out of the sane, silent,
beauteous miracles that envelope and fuse me--trees, water, grass, sunlight, and early frost--the
one I am looking at most to-day is the sky. It has that delicate, transparent blue, peculiar
to autumn, and the only clouds are little or larger white ones, giving their still and spiritual
motion to the great concave. All through the earlier day (say from 7 to 11) it keeps a pure,
yet vivid blue. But as noon approaches the color gets lighter, quite gray for two or three
hours--then still paler for a spell, till sun-down--which last I watch dazzling through the
interstices of a knoll of big trees--darts of fire and a gorgeous show of light-yellow, liver-color
and red, with a vast silver glaze askant on the water--the transparent shadows, shafts, sparkle,
and vivid colors beyond all the paintings ever made.

I don't know what or how, but it seems to me mostly owing to these skies, (every now and then
I think, while I have of course seen them every day of my life, I never really saw the skies
before,) have had this autumn some wondrously contented hours--may I not say perfectly happy
ones? As I have read, Byron just before his death told a friend that he had known but three
happy hours during his whole existence. Then there is the old German legend of the king's bell,
to the same point. While I was out there by the wood, that beautiful sunset through the trees,
I thought of Byron's and the bell story, and the notion started in me that I was having a happy
hour. (Though perhaps my best moments I never jot down; when they come I cannot afford to break
the charm by inditing memoranda. I just abandon myself to the mood, and let it float on, carrying
me in its placid extasy.)

What is happiness, anyhow? Is this one of its hours, or the like of it?--so impalpable--a mere
breath, an evanescent tinge? I am not sure--so let me give myself the benefit of the doubt.
Hast Thou, pellucid, in Thy azure depths, medicine for case like mine? (Ah, the physical shatter
and troubled spirit of me the last three years.) And dost Thou subtly mystically now drip it
through the air invisibly upon me?

Night of Oct. 28.--The heavens unusually transparent--the stars out by myriads--the great path
of the Milky Way, with its branch, only seen of very clear nights--Jupiter, setting in the
west, looks like a huge hap-hazard splash, and has a little star for companion.

    Clothed in his white garments,
    Into the round and clear arena slowly entered the brahmin,
    Holding a little child by the hand,
    Like the moon with the planet Jupiter in a cloudless night-sky.

    Old Hindu Poem.

Early in November.--At its farther end the lane already described opens into a broad grassy
upland field of over twenty acres, slightly sloping to the south. Here I am accustom'd to walk
for sky views and effects, either morning or sundown. To-day from this field my soul is calm'd
and expanded beyond description, the whole forenoon by the clear blue arching over all, cloudless,
nothing particular, only sky and daylight. Their soothing accompaniments, autumn leaves, the
cool dry air, the faint aroma--crows cawing in the distance--two great buzzards wheeling gracefully
and slowly far up there--the occasional murmur of the wind, sometimes quite gently, then threatening
through the trees--a gang of farm-laborers loading cornstalks in a field in sight, and the
patient horses waiting.

COLORS--A CONTRAST

Such a play of colors and lights, different seasons, different hours of the day--the lines
of the far horizon where the faint-tinged edge of the landscape loses itself in the sky. As
I slowly hobble up the lane toward day-close, an incomparable sunset shooting in molten sapphire
and gold, shaft after shaft, through the ranks of the long-leaved corn, between me and the
west. Another day--The rich dark green of the tulip-trees and the oaks, the gray of the swamp-willows,
the dull hues of the sycamores and black-walnuts, the emerald of the cedars (after rain,) and
the light yellow of the beeches.

NOVEMBER 8, '76

The forenoon leaden and cloudy, not cold or wet, but indicating both. As I hobble down here
and sit by the silent pond, how different from the excitement amid which, in the cities, millions
of people are now waiting news of yesterday's Presidential election, or receiving and discussing
the result--in this secluded place uncared-for, unknown.

CROWS AND CROWS

Nov. 14.--As I sit here by the creek, resting after my walk, a warm languor bathes me from
the sun. No sound but a cawing of crows, and no motion but their black flying figures from
over-head, reflected in the mirror of the pond below. Indeed a principal feature of the scene
to-day is these crows, their incessant cawing, far or near, and their countless flocks and
processions moving from place to place, and at times almost darkening the air with their myriads.
As I sit a moment writing this by the bank, I see the black, clear-cut reflection of them far
below, flying through the watery looking-glass, by ones, twos, or long strings. All last night
I heard the noises from their great roost in a neighboring wood.

A WINTER DAY ON THE SEA-BEACH

One bright December mid-day lately I spent down on the New Jersey sea-shore, reaching it by
a little more than an hour's railroad trip over the old Camden and Atlantic. I had started
betimes, fortified by nice strong coffee and a good breakfast (cook'd by the hands I love,
my dear sister Lou's--how much better it makes the victuals taste, and then assimilate, strengthen
you, perhaps make the whole day comfortable afterwards.) Five or six miles at the last, our
track enter'd a broad region of salt grass meadows, intersected by lagoons, and cut up everywhere
by watery runs. The sedgy perfume, delightful to my nostrils, reminded me of "the mash" and
south bay of my native island. I could have journey'd contentedly till night through these
flat and odorous sea-prairies. From half-past 11 till 2 I was nearly all the time along the
beach, or in sight of the ocean, listening to its hoarse murmur, and inhaling the bracing and
welcome breezes. First, a rapid five-mile drive over the hard sand--our carriage wheels hardly
made dents in it. Then after dinner (as there were nearly two hours to spare) I walk'd off
in another direction, (hardly met or saw a person,) and taking possession of what appear'd
to have been the reception-room of an old bath-house range, had a broad expanse of view all
to myself--quaint, refreshing, unimpeded--a dry area of sedge and Indian grass immediately
before and around me--space, simple, unornamented space. Distant vessels, and the far-off,
just visible trailing smoke of an inward bound steamer; more plainly, ships, brigs, schooners,
in sight, most of them with every sail set to the firm and steady wind.

The attractions, fascinations there are in sea and shore! How one dwells on their simplicity,
even vacuity! What is it in us, arous'd by those indirections and directions? That spread of
waves and gray-white beach, salt, monotonous, senseless--such an entire absence of art, books,
talk, elegance--so indescribably comforting, even this winter day--grim, yet so delicate-looking,
so spiritual--striking emotional, impalpable depths, subtler than all the poems, paintings,
music, I have ever read, seen, heard. (Yet let me be fair, perhaps it is because I have read
those poems and heard that music.)

SEA-SHORE FANCIES

Even as a boy, I had the fancy, the wish, to write a piece, perhaps a poem, about the sea-shore--that
suggesting, dividing line, contact, junction, the solid marrying the liquid--that curious,
lurking something, (as doubtless every objective form finally becomes to the subjective spirit,)
which means far more than its mere first sight, grand as that is--blending the real and ideal,
and each made portion of the other. Hours, days, in my Long Island youth and early manhood,
I haunted the shores of Rockaway or Coney island, or away east to the Hamptons or Montauk.
Once, at the latter place, (by the old lighthouse, nothing but sea-tossings in sight in every
direction as far as the eye could reach,) I remember well, I felt that I must one day write
a book expressing this liquid, mystic theme. Afterward, I recollect, how it came to me that
instead of any special lyrical or epical or literary attempt, the sea-shore should be an invisible
influence, a pervading gauge and tally for me, in my composition. (Let me give a hint here
to young writers. I am not sure but I have unwittingly follow'd out the same rule with other
powers besides sea and shores--avoiding them, in the way of any dead set at poetizing them,
as too big for formal handling--quite satisfied if I could indirectly show that we have met
and fused, even if only once, but enough--that we have really absorb'd each other and understand
each other.)

There is a dream, a picture, that for years at intervals, (sometimes quite long ones, but surely
again, in time,) has come noiselessly up before me, and I really believe, fiction as it is,
has enter'd largely into my practical life--certainly into my writings, and shaped and color'd
them. It is nothing more or less than a stretch of interminable white-brown sand, hard and
smooth and broad, with the ocean perpetually, grandly, rolling in upon it, with slow-measured
sweep, with rustle and hiss and foam, and many a thump as of low bass drums. This scene, this
picture, I say, has risen before me at times for years. Sometimes I wake at night and can hear
and see it plainly.

IN MEMORY OF THOMAS PAINE.

Spoken at Lincoln Hall, Philadelphia, Sunday, Jan. 28, '77, for 140th anniversary of T. P.'s
birthday.

Some thirty-five years ago, in New York city, at Tammany hall, of which place I was then a
frequenter, I happen'd to become quite well acquainted with Thomas Paine's perhaps most intimate
chum, and certainly his later years' very frequent companion, a remarkably fine old man, Col.
Fellows, who may yet be remember'd by some stray relics of that period and spot. If you will
allow me, I will first give a description of the Colonel himself. He was tall, of military
bearing, aged about 78, I should think, hair white as snow, clean-shaved on the face, dress'd
very neatly, a tail-coat of blue cloth with metal buttons, buff vest, pantaloons of drab color,
and his neck, breast and wrists showing the whitest of linen. Under all circumstances, fine
manners; a good but not profuse talker, his wits still fully about him, balanced and live and
undimm'd as ever. He kept pretty fair health, though so old. For employment--for he was poor--he
had a post as constable of some of the upper courts. I used to think him very picturesque on
the fringe of a crowd holding a tall staff, with his erect form, and his superb, bare, thick-hair'd,
closely-cropt white head. The judges and young lawyers, with whom he was ever a favorite, and
the subject of respect, used to call him Aristides. It was the general opinion among them that
if manly rectitude and the instincts of absolute justice remain'd vital anywhere about New
York City Hall, or Tammany, they were to be found in Col. Fellows. He liked young men, and
enjoy'd to leisurely talk with them over a social glass of toddy, after his day's work, (he
on these occasions never drank but one glass,) and it was at reiterated meetings of this kind
in old Tammany's back parlor of those days, that he told me much about Thomas Paine. At one
of our interviews he gave me a minute account of Paine's sickness and death. In short, from
those talks, I was and am satisfied that my old friend, with his mark'd advantages, had mentally,
morally and emotionally gauged the author of "Common Sense," and besides giving me a good portrait
of his appearance and manners, had taken the true measure of his interior character.

Paine's practical demeanor, and much of his theoretical belief, was a mixture of the French
and English schools of a century ago, and the best of both. Like most old-fashion'd people,
he drank a glass or two every day, but was no tippler, nor intemperate, let alone being a drunkard.
He lived simply and economically, but quite well--was always cheery and courteous, perhaps
occasionally a little blunt, having very positive opinions upon politics, religion, and so
forth. That he labor'd well and wisely for the States in the trying period of their parturition,
and in the seeds of their character, there seems to me no question. I dare not say how much
of what our Union is owning and enjoying to-day--its independence--its ardent belief in, and
substantial practice of radical human rights--and the severance of its government from all
ecclesiastical and superstitious dominion--I dare not say how much of all this is owing to
Thomas Paine, but I am inclined to think a good portion of it decidedly is.

But I was not going either into an analysis or eulogium of the man. I wanted to carry you back
a generation or two, and give you by indirection a moment's glance--and also to ventilate a
very earnest and I believe authentic opinion, nay conviction, of that time, the fruit of the
interviews I have mention'd, and of questioning and cross-questioning, clench'd by my best
information since, that Thomas Paine had a noble personality, as exhibited in presence, face,
voice, dress, manner, and what may be call'd his atmosphere and magnetism, especially the later
years of his life. I am sure of it. Of the foul and foolish fictions yet told about the circumstances
of his decease, the absolute fact is that as he lived a good life, after its kind, he died
calmly and philosophically, as became him. He served the embryo Union with most precious service--a
service that every man, woman and child in our thirty-eight States is to some extent receiving
the benefit of to-day--and I for one here cheerfully, reverently throw my pebble on the cairn
of his memory. As we all know, the season demands--or rather, will it ever be out of season?--that
America learn to better dwell on her choicest possession, the legacy of her good and faithful
men--that she well preserve their fame, if unquestion'd--or, if need be, that she fail not
to dissipate what clouds have intruded on that fame, and burnish it newer, truer and brighter,
continually.

A TWO HOURS ICE-SAIL

Feb. 3, '77--From 4 to 6 P. M. crossing the Delaware, (back again at my Camden home,) unable
to make our landing, through the ice; our boat stanch and strong and skilfully piloted, but
old and sulky, and poorly minding her helm. (Power, so important in poetry and war, is also
first point of all in a winter steamboat, with long stretches of ice-packs to tackle.) For
over two hours we bump'd and beat about, the invisible ebb, sluggish but irresistible, often
carrying us long distances against our will. In the first tinge of dusk, as I look'd around,
I thought there could not be presented a more chilling, arctic, grim-extended, depressing scene.
Everything was yet plainly visible; for miles north and south, ice, ice, ice, mostly broken,
but some big cakes, and no clear water in sight. The shores, piers, surfaces, roofs, shipping,
mantled with snow. A faint winter vapor hung a fitting accompaniment around and over the endless
whitish spread, and gave it just a tinge of steel and brown.

Feb. 6.--As I cross home in the 6 P. M. boat again, the transparent shadows are filled everywhere
with leisurely falling, slightly slanting, curiously sparse but very large, flakes of snow.
On the shores, near and far, the glow of just-lit gas-clusters at intervals. The ice, sometimes
in hummocks, sometimes floating fields, through which our boat goes crunching. The light permeated
by that peculiar evening haze, right after sunset, which sometimes renders quite distant objects
so distinctly.

SPRING OVERTURES--RECREATIONS

Feb. 10.--The first chirping, almost singing, of a bird to-day. Then I noticed a couple of
honey-bees spirting and humming about the open window in the sun.

Feb. 11.--In the soft rose and pale gold of the declining light, this beautiful evening, I
heard the first hum and preparation of awakening spring--very faint--whether in the earth or
roots, or starting of insects, I know not--but it was audible, as I lean'd on a rail (I am
down in my country quarters awhile,) and look'd long at the western horizon. Turning to the
east, Sirius, as the shadows deepen'd, came forth in dazzling splendor. And great Orion; and
a little to the north-east the big Dipper, standing on end.

Feb. 20.--A solitary and pleasant sundown hour at the pond, exercising arms, chest, my whole
body, by a tough oak sapling thick as my wrist, twelve feet high--pulling and pushing, inspiring
the good air. After I wrestle with the tree awhile, I can feel its young sap and virtue welling
up out of the ground and tingling through me from crown to toe, like health's wine. Then for
addition and variety I launch forth in my vocalism; shout declamatory pieces, sentiments, sorrow,
anger, &c., from the stock poets or plays--or inflate my lungs and sing the wild tunes and
refrains I heard of the blacks down south, or patriotic songs I learn'd in the army. I make
the echoes ring, I tell you! As the twilight fell, in a pause of these ebullitions, an owl
somewhere the other side of the creek sounded too-oo-oo-oo-oo, soft and pensive (and I fancied
a little sarcastic) repeated four or five times. Either to applaud the negro songs--or perhaps
an ironical comment on the sorrow, anger, or style of the stock poets.

ONE OF THE HUMAN KINKS

How is it that in all the serenity and lonesomeness of solitude, away off here amid the hush
of the forest, alone, or as I have found in prairie wilds, or mountain stillness, one is never
entirely without the instinct of looking around, (I never am, and others tell me the same of
themselves, confidentially,) for somebody to appear, or start up out of the earth, or from
behind some tree or rock? Is it a lingering, inherited remains of man's primitive wariness,
from the wild animals? or from his savage ancestry far back? It is not at all nervousness or
fear. Seems as if something unknown were possibly lurking in those bushes, or solitary places.
Nay, it is quite certain there is--some vital unseen presence.

AN AFTERNOON SCENE

Feb. 22.--Last night and to-day rainy and thick, till mid-afternoon, when the wind chopp'd
round, the clouds swiftly drew off like curtains, the clear appear'd, and with it the fairest,
grandest, most wondrous rainbow I ever saw, all complete, very vivid at its earth-ends, spreading
vast effusions of illuminated haze, violet, yellow, drab-green, in all directions overhead,
through which the sun beam'd--an indescribable utterance of color and light, so gorgeous yet
so soft, such as I had never witness'd before. Then its continuance: a full hour pass'd before
the last of those earth-ends disappear'd. The sky behind was all spread in translucent blue,
with many little white clouds and edges. To these a sunset, filling, dominating the esthetic
and soul senses, sumptuously, tenderly, full. I end this note by the pond, just light enough
to see, through the evening shadows, the western reflections in its water-mirror surface, with
inverted figures of trees. I hear now and then the flup of a pike leaping out, and rippling
the water.

THE GATES OPENING

April 6.--Palpable spring indeed, or the indications of it. I am sitting in bright sunshine,
at the edge of the creek, the surface just rippled by the wind. All is solitude, morning freshness,
negligence. For companions my two kingfishers sailing, winding, darting, dipping, sometimes
capriciously separate, then flying together. I hear their guttural twittering again and again;
for awhile nothing but that peculiar sound. As noon approaches other birds warm up. The reedy
notes of the robin, and a musical passage of two parts, one a clear delicious gurgle, with
several other birds I cannot place. To which is join'd, (yes, I just hear it,) one low purr
at intervals from some impatient hylas at the pond-edge. The sibilant murmur of a pretty stiff
breeze now and then through the trees. Then a poor little dead leaf, long frost-bound, whirls
from somewhere up aloft in one wild escaped freedom-spree in space and sunlight, and then dashes
down to the waters, which hold it closely and soon drown it out of sight. The bushes and trees
are yet bare, but the beeches have their wrinkled yellow leaves of last season's foliage largely
left, frequent cedars and pines yet green, and the grass not without proofs of coming fullness.
And over all a wonderfully fine dome of clear blue, the play of light coming and going, and
great fleeces of white clouds swimming so silently.

THE COMMON EARTH, THE SOIL

The soil, too--let others pen-and-ink the sea, the air, (as I sometimes try)--but now I feel
to choose the common soil for theme--naught else. The brown soil here, (just between winter-close
and opening spring and vegetation)--the rain-shower at night, and the fresh smell next morning--the
red worms wriggling out of the ground--the dead leaves, the incipient grass, and the latent
life underneath--the effort to start something--already in shelter'd spots some little flowers--the
distant emerald show of winter wheat and the rye-fields--the yet naked trees, with clear insterstices,
giving prospects hidden in summer--the tough fallow and the plow-team, and the stout boy whistling
to his horses for encouragement--and there the dark fat earth in long slanting stripes upturn'd.

BIRDS AND BIRDS AND BIRDS

A little later--bright weather.--An unusual melodiousness, these days, (last of April and first
of May) from the blackbirds; indeed all sorts of birds, darting, whistling, hopping or perch'd
on trees. Never before have I seen, heard, or been in the midst of, and got so flooded and
saturated with them and their performances, as this current month. Such oceans, such successions
of them. Let me make a list of those I find here:

Black birds (plenty,)            Meadow-larks (plenty,) Ring doves,                      Cat-birds
(plenty,) Owls,                            Cuckoos, Woodpeckers,                     Pond snipes
(plenty,) King-birds,                      Cheewinks, Crows (plenty,)                  Quawks,
Wrens,                           Ground robins, Kingfishers,                     Ravens, Quails,
Gray snipes, Turkey-buzzards,                 Eagles, Hen-hawks,                       High-holes,
Yellow birds,                    Herons, Thrushes,                        Tits, Reed birds,
Woodpigeons.

Early came the

Blue birds,                      Meadow-lark, Killdeer,                        White-bellied
swallow, Plover,                          Sandpiper, Robin,                           Wilson's
thrush, Woodcock,                        Flicker.

FULL-STARR'D NIGHTS

May 2l.--Back in Camden. Again commencing one of those unusually transparent, full-starr'd,
blue-black nights, as if to show that however lush and pompous the day may be, there is something
left in the not-day that can outvie it. The rarest, finest sample of long-drawn-out clear-obscure,
from sundown to 9 o'clock. I went down to the Delaware, and cross'd and cross'd. Venus like
blazing silver well up in the west. The large pale thin crescent of the new moon, half an hour
high, sinking languidly under a bar-sinister of cloud, and then emerging. Arcturus right overhead.
A faint fragrant sea-odor wafted up from the south. The gloaming, the temper'd coolness, with
every feature of the scene, indescribably soothing and tonic--one of those hours that give
hints to the soul, impossible to put in a statement. (Ah, where would be any food for spirituality
without night and the stars?) The vacant spaciousness of the air, and the veil'd blue of the
heavens, seem'd miracles enough.

As the night advanc'd it changed its spirit and garments to ampler stateliness. I was almost
conscious of a definite presence, Nature silently near. The great constellation of the Water-Serpent
stretch'd its coils over more than half the heavens. The Swan with outspread wings was flying
down the Milky Way. The northern Crown, the Eagle, Lyra, all up there in their places. From
the whole dome shot down points of light, rapport with me, through the clear blue-black. All
the usual sense of motion, all animal life, seem'd discarded, seem'd a fiction; a curious power,
like the placid rest of Egyptian gods, took possession, none the less potent for being impalpable.
Earlier I had seen many bats, balancing in the luminous twilight, darting their black forms
hither and yon over the river; but now they altogether disappear'd. The evening star and the
moon had gone. Alertness and peace lay camly couching together through the fluid universal shadows.

Aug. 26.--Bright has the day been, and my spirits an equal forzando. Then comes the night,
different, inexpressibly pensive, with its own tender and temper'd splendor. Venus lingers
in the west with a voluptuous dazzle unshown hitherto this summer. Mars rises early, and the
red sulky moon, two days past her full; Jupiter at night's meridian, and the long curling-slanted
Scorpion stretching full view in the south, Aretus-neck'd. Mars walks the heavens lord-paramount
now; all through this month I go out after supper and watch for him; sometimes getting up at
midnight to take another look at his unparallel'd lustre. (I see lately an astronomer has made
out through the new Washington telescope that Mars has certainly one moon, perhaps two.) Pale
and distant, but near in the heavens, Saturn precedes him.

MULLEINS AND MULLEINS

Large, placid mulleins, as summer advances, velvety in texture, of a light greenish-drab color,
growing everywhere in the fields--at first earth's big rosettes in their broad-leav'd low cluster-plants,
eight, ten, twenty leaves to a plant--plentiful on the fallow twenty-acre lot, at the end of
the lane, and especially by the ridge-sides of the fences--then close to the ground, but soon
springing up--leaves as broad as my hand, and the lower ones twice as long--so fresh and dewy
in the morning--stalks now four or five, even seven or eight feet high. The farmers, I find,
think the mullein a mean unworthy weed, but I have grown to a fondness for it. Every object
has its lesson, enclosing the suggestion of everything else--and lately I sometimes think all
is concentrated for me in these hardy, yellow-flower'd weeds. As I come down the lane early
in the morning, I pause before their soft wool-like fleece and stem and broad leaves, glittering
with countless diamonds. Annually for three summers now, they and I have silently return'd
together; at such long intervals I stand or sit among them, musing--and woven with the rest,
of so many hours and moods of partial rehabilitation--of my sane or sick spirit, here as near
at peace as it can be.

DISTANT SOUNDS

The axe of the wood-cutter, the measured thud of a single threshing-flail, the crowing of chanticleer
in the barn-yard, (with invariable responses from other barn-yards,) and the lowing of cattle--but
most of all, or far or near, the wind--through the high tree-tops, or through low bushes, laving
one's face and hands so gently, this balmy-bright noon, the coolest for a long time, (Sept.
2)--I will not call it sighing, for to me it is always a firm, sane, cheery expression, through
a monotone, giving many varieties, or swift or slow, or dense or delicate. The wind in the
patch of pine woods off there--how sibilant. Or at sea, I can imagine it this moment, tossing
the waves, with spirits of foam flying far, and the free whistle, and the scent of the salt--and
that vast paradox somehow with all its action and restlessness conveying a sense of eternal rest.

Other adjuncts.--But the sun and the moon here and these times. As never more wonderful by
day, the gorgeous orb imperial, so vast, so ardently, lovingly hot--so never a more glorious
moon of nights, especially the last three or four. The great planets too--Mars never before
so flaming bright, so flashing-large, with slight yellow tinge, (the astronomers say--is it
true?--nearer to us than any time the past century)--and well up, lord Jupiter, (a little while
since close by the moon)--and in the west, after the sun sinks, voluptuous Venus, now languid
and shorn of her beams, as if from some divine excess.

A SUN-BATH-NAKEDNESS

Sunday, Aug. 27.--Another day quite free from mark'd prostration and pain. It seems indeed
as if peace and nutriment from heaven subtly filter into me as I slowly hobble down these country
lanes and across fields, in the good air--as I sit here in solitude with Nature--open, voiceless,
mystic, far removed, yet palpable, eloquent Nature. I merge myself in the scene, in the perfect
day. Hovering over the clear brook-water, I am sooth'd by its soft gurgle in one place, and
the hoarser murmurs of its three-foot fall in another. Come, ye disconsolate, in whom any latent
eligibility is left--come get the sure virtues of creek-shore, and wood and field. Two months
(July and August, '77,) have I absorb'd them, and they begin to make a new man of me. Every
day, seclusion--every day at least two or three hours of freedom, bathing, no talk, no bonds,
no dress, no books, no manners.

Shall I tell you, reader, to what I attribute my already much-restored health? That I have
been almost two years, off and on, without drugs and medicines, and daily in the open air.
Last summer I found a particularly secluded little dell off one side by my creek, originally
a large dug-out marl-pit, now abandon'd, fill'd, with bushes, trees, grass, a group of willows,
a straggling bank, and a spring of delicious water running right through the middle of it,
with two or three little cascades. Here I retreated every hot day, and follow it up this summer.
Here I realize the meaning of that old fellow who said he was seldom less alone than when alone.
Never before did I get so close to Nature; never before did she come so close to me. By old
habit, I pencill'd down from time to time, almost automatically, moods, sights, hours, tints
and outlines, on the spot. Let me specially record the satisfaction of this current forenoon,
so serene and primitive, so conventionally exceptional, natural.

An hour or so after breakfast I wended my way down to the recesses of the aforesaid dell, which
I and certain thrushes, cat-birds, &c., had all to ourselves. A light south-west wind was blowing
through the tree-tops. It was just the place and time for my Adamic air-bath and flesh-brushing
from head to foot. So hanging clothes on a rail near by, keeping old broadbrim straw on head
and easy shoes on feet, havn't I had a good time the last two hours! First with the stiff-elastic
bristles rasping arms, breast, sides, till they turn'd scarlet--then partially bathing in the
clear waters of the running brook--taking everything very leisurely, with many rests and pauses--stepping
about barefooted every few minutes now and then in some neighboring black ooze, for unctuous
mud-bath to my feet--a brief second and third rinsing in the crystal running waters--rubbing
with the fragrant towel--slow negligent promenades on the turf up and down in the sun, varied
with occasional rests, and further frictions of the bristle-brush--sometimes carrying my portable
chair with me from place to place, as my range is quite extensive here, nearly a hundred rods,
feeling quite secure from intrusion, (and that indeed I am not at all nervous about, if it
accidentally happens.)

As I walk'd slowly over the grass, the sun shone out enough to show the shadow moving with
me. Somehow I seem'd to get identity with each and every thing around me, in its condition.
Nature was naked, and I was also. It was too lazy, soothing, and joyous-equable to speculate
about. Yet I might have thought somehow in this vein: Perhaps the inner never-lost rapport
we hold with earth, light, air, trees, &c., is not to be realized through eyes and mind only,
but through the whole corporeal body, which I will not have blinded or bandaged any more than
the eyes. Sweet, sane, still Nakedness in Nature!--ah if poor, sick, prurient humanity in cities
might really know you once more! Is not nakedness then indecent? No, not inherently. It is
your thought, your sophistication, your tear, your respectability, that is indecent. There
come moods when these clothes of ours are not only too irksome to wear, but are themselves
indecent. Perhaps indeed he or she to whom the free exhilarating extasy of nakedness in Nature
has never been eligible (and how many thousands there are!) has not really known what purity
is--nor what faith or art or health really is. (Probably the whole curriculum of first-class
philosophy, beauty, heroism, form, illustrated by the old Hellenic race--the highest height
and deepest depth known to civilization in those departments--came from their natural and religious
idea of Nakedness.)

Many such hours, from time to time, the last two summers--I attribute my partial rehabilitation
largely to them. Some good people may think it a feeble or half-crack'd way of spending one's
time and thinking. May-be it is.

THE OAKS AND I

Sept. 5, '77.--I write this, 11 A.M., shelter'd under a dense oak by the bank, where I have
taken refuge from a sudden rain. I came down here, (we had sulky drizzles all the morning,
but an hour ago a lull,) for the before-mention'd daily and simple exercise I am fond of--to
pull on that young hickory sapling out there--to sway and yield to its tough-limber upright
stem--haply to get into my old sinews some of its elastic fibre and clear sap. I stand on the
turf and take these health-pulls moderately and at intervals for nearly an hour, inhaling great
draughts of fresh air. Wandering by the creek, I have three or four naturally favorable spots
where I rest--besides a chair I lug with me and use for more deliberate occasions. At other
spots convenient I have selected, besides the hickory just named, strong and limber boughs
of beech or holly, in easy-reaching distance, for my natural gymnasia, for arms, chest, trunk-muscles.
I can soon feel the sap and sinew rising through me, like mercury to heat. I hold on boughs
or slender trees caressingly there in the sun and shade, wrestle with their innocent stalwartness--and
know the virtue thereof passes from them into me. (Or may-be we interchange--may-be the trees
are more aware of it all than I ever thought.)

But now pleasantly imprison'd here under the big oak--the rain dripping, and the sky cover'd
with leaden clouds--nothing but the pond on one side, and the other a spread of grass, spotted
with the milky blossoms of the wild carrot--the sound of an axe wielded at some distant wood-pile--yet
in this dull scene, (as most folks would call it,) why am I so (almost) happy here and alone?
Why would any intrusion, even from people I like, spoil the charm? But am I alone? Doubtless
there comes a time--perhaps it has come to me--when one feels through his whole being, and
pronouncedly the emotional part, that identity between himself subjectively and Nature objectively
which Schelling and Fichte are so fond of pressing. How it is I know not, but I often realize
a presence here--in clear moods I am certain of it, and neither chemistry nor reasoning nor
esthetics will give the least explanation. All the past two summers it has been strengthening
and nourishing my sick body and soul, as never before. Thanks, invisible physician, for thy
silent delicious medicine, thy day and night, thy waters and thy airs, the banks, the grass,
the trees, and e'en the weeds!

A QUINTETTE

While I have been kept by the rain under the shelter of my great oak, (perfectly dry and comfortable,
to the rattle of the drops all around,) I have pencill'd off the mood of the hour in a little
quintette, which I will give you:

    At vacancy with Nature,
    Acceptive and at ease,
    Distilling the present hour,
    Whatever, wherever it is,
    And over the past, oblivion.

Can you get hold of it, reader dear? and how do you like it anyhow?

THE FIRST FROST--MEMS

Where I was stopping I saw the first palpable frost, on my sunrise walk, October 6; all over
the yet-green spread a light blue-gray veil, giving a new show to the entire landscape. I had
but little time to notice it, for the sun rose cloudless and mellow-warm, and as I returned
along the lane it had turn'd to glittering patches of wet. As I walk I notice the bursting
pods of wild-cotton, (Indian hemp they call it here,) with flossy-silky contents, and dark
red-brown seeds--a startled rabbit--I pull a handful of the balsamic life-ever-lasting and
stuff it down in my trowsers-pocket for scent.

THREE YOUNG MEN'S DEATHS

December 20.--Somehow I got thinking to-day of young men's deaths--not at all sadly or sentimentally,
but gravely, realistically, perhaps a little artistically. Let me give the following three
cases from budgets of personal memoranda, which I have been turning over, alone in my room,
and resuming and dwelling on, this rainy afternoon. Who is there to whom the theme does not
come home? Then I don't know how it may be to others, but to me not only is there nothing gloomy
or depressing in such cases--on the contrary, as reminiscences, I find them soothing, bracing,
tonic.

ERASTUS HASKELL.--[I just transcribe verbatim from a letter written by myself in one of the
army hospitals, 16 years ago, during the secession war.] Washington, July 28, 1863.--Dear M.,--I
am writing this in the hospital, sitting by the side of a soldier, I do not expect to last
many hours. His fate has been a hard one--he seems to be only about 19 or 20--Erastus Haskell,
company K, 141st N. Y.--has been out about a year, and sick or half-sick more than half that
time--has been down on the peninsula--was detail'd to go in the band as fifer-boy. While sick,
the surgeon told him to keep up with the rest--(probably work'd and march'd too long.) He is
a shy, and seems to me a very sensible boy--has fine manners--never complains--was sick down
on the peninsula in an old storehouse--typhoid fever. The first week this July was brought
up here--journey very bad, no accommodations, no nourishment, nothing but hard jolting, and
exposure enough to make a well man sick; (these fearful journeys do the job for many)--arrived
here July 11th--a silent dark-skinn'd Spanish-looking youth, with large very dark blue eyes,
peculiar looking. Doctor F. here made light of his sickness--said he would recover soon, etc.;
but I thought very different, and told F. so repeatedly; (I came near quarreling with him about
it from the first)--but he laugh'd, and would not listen to me. About four days ago, I told
Doctor he would in my opinion lose the boy without doubt--but F. again laugh'd at me. The next
day he changed his opinion--brought the head surgeon of the post--he said the boy would probably
die, but they would make a hard fight for him.

The last two days he has been lying panting for breath--a pitiful sight. I have been with him
some every day or night since he arrived. He suffers a great deal with the heat--says little
or nothing--is flighty the last three days, at times--knows me always, however --calls me "Walter"--(sometimes
calls the name over and over and over again, musingly, abstractedly, to himself.) His father
lives at Breesport, Chemung county, N. Y., is a mechanic with large family--is a steady, religious
man; his mother too is living. I have written to them, and shall write again to-day--Erastus
has not receiv'd a word from home for months.

As I sit here writing to you, M., I wish you could see the whole scene. This young man lies
within reach of me, flat on his back, his hands clasp'd across his breast, his thick black
hair cut close; he is dozing, breathing hard, every breath a spasm--it looks so cruel. He is
a noble youngster,--I consider him past all hope. Often there is no one with him for a long
while. I am here as much as possible.

WILLIAM ALCOTT, fireman. Camden, Nov., 1874.--Last Monday afternoon his widow, mother, relatives,
mates of the fire department, and his other friends, (I was one, only lately it is true, but
our love grew fast and close, the days and nights of those eight weeks by the chair of rapid
decline, and the bed of death,) gather'd to the funeral of this young man, who had grown up,
and was well-known here. With nothing special, perhaps, to record, I would give a word or two
to his memory. He seem'd to me not an inappropriate specimen in character and elements, of
that bulk of the average good American race that ebbs and flows perennially beneath this scum
of eructations on the surface. Always very quiet in manner, neat in person and dress, good
temper'd--punctual and industrious at his work, till he could work no longer--he just lived
his steady, square, unobtrusive life, in its own humble sphere, doubtless unconscious of itself.
(Though I think there were currents of emotion and intellect undevelop'd beneath, far deeper
than his acquaintances ever suspected--or than he himself ever did.) He was no talker. His
troubles, when he had any, he kept to himself. As there was nothing querulous about him in
life, he made no complaints during his last sickness. He was one of those persons that while
his associates never thought of attributing any particular talent or grace to him, yet all
insensibly, really, liked Billy Alcott.

I, too, loved him. At last, after being with him quite a good deal --after hours and days of
panting for breath, much of the time unconscious, (for though the consumption that had been
lurking in his system, once thoroughly started, made rapid progress, there was still great
vitality in him, and indeed for four or five days he lay dying, before the close,) late on
Wednesday night, Nov. 4th, where we surrounded his bed in silence, there came a lull--a longer
drawn breath, a pause, a faint sigh--another--a weaker breath, another sigh --a pause again
and just a tremble--and the face of the poor wasted young man (he was just 26,) fell gently
over, in death, on my hand, on the pillow.

CHARLES CASWELL.--[I extract the following, verbatim, from a letter to me dated September 29,
from my friend John Burroughs, at Esopus-on-Hudson, New York State.] S. was away when your
picture came, attending his sick brother, Charles--who has since died--an event that has sadden'd
me much. Charlie was younger than S., and a most attractive young fellow. He work'd at my father's
and had done so for two years. He was about the best specimen of a young country farm-hand
I ever knew. You would have loved him. He was like one of your poems. With his great strength,
his blond hair, his cheerfulness and contentment, his universal good will, and his silent manly
ways, he was a youth hard to match. He was murder'd by an old doctor. He had typhoid fever,
and the old fool bled him twice. He lived to wear out the fever, but had not strength to rally.
He was out of his head nearly all the time. In the morning, as he died in the afternoon, S.
was standing over him, when Charlie put up his arms around S.'s neck, and pull'd his face down
and kiss'd him. S. said he knew then the end was near. (S. stuck to him day and night to the
last.) When I was home in August, Charlie was cradling on the hill, and it was a picture to
see him walk through the grain. All work seem'd play to him. He had no vices, any more than
Nature has, and was belov'd by all who knew him.

I have written thus to you about him, for such young men belong to you; he was of your kind.
I wish you could have known him. He had the sweetness of a child, and the strength and courage
and readiness of a young Viking. His mother and father are poor; they have a rough, hard farm.
His mother works in the field with her husband when the work presses. She has had twelve children.

FEBRUARY DAYS

February 7, 1878.--Glistening sun today, with slight haze, warm enough, and yet tart, as I
sit here in the open air, down in my country retreat, under an old cedar. For two hours I have
been idly wandering around the woods and pond, lugging my chair, picking out choice spots to
sit awhile--then up and slowly on again. All is peace here. Of course, none of the summer noises
or vitality; to-day hardly even the winter ones. I amuse myself by exercising my voice in recitations,
and in ringing the changes on all the vocal and alphabetical sounds. Not even an echo; only
the cawing of a solitary crow, flying at some distance. The pond is one bright, flat spread,
without a ripple--a vast Claude Lorraine glass, in which I study the sky, the light, the leafless
trees, and an occasional crow, with flapping wings, flying overhead. The brown fields have
a few white patches of snow left.

Feb. 9.--After an hour's ramble, now retreating, resting, sitting close by the pond, in a warm
nook, writing this, shelter'd from the breeze, just before noon. The emotional aspects and
influences of Nature! I, too, like the rest, feel these modern tendencies (from all the prevailing
intellections, literature and poems,) to turn everything to pathos, ennui, morbidity, dissatisfaction,
death. Yet how clear it is to me that those are not the born results, influences of Nature
at all, but of one's own distorted, sick or silly soul. Here, amid this wild, free scene, how
healthy, how joyous, how clean and vigorous and sweet!

Mid-afternoon.--One of my nooks is south of the barn, and here I am sitting now, on a log,
still basking in the sun, shielded from the wind. Near me are the cattle, feeding on corn-stalks.
Occasionally a cow or the young bull (how handsome and bold he is!) scratches and munches the
far end of the log on which I sit. The fresh milky odor is quite perceptible, also the perfume
of hay from the barn. The perpetual rustle of dry corn-stalks, the low sough of the wind round
the barn gables, the grunting of pigs, the distant whistle of a locomotive, and occasional
crowing of chanticleers, are the sounds.

Feb. 19.--Cold and sharp last night--clear and not much wind--the full moon shining, and a
fine spread of constellations and little and big stars--Sirius very bright, rising early, preceded
by many-orb'd Orion, glittering, vast, sworded, and chasing with his dog. The earth hard frozen,
and a stiff glare of ice over the pond. Attracted by the calm splendor of the night, I attempted
a short walk, but was driven back by the cold. Too severe for me also at 9 o'clock, when I
came out this morning, so I turn'd back again. But now, near noon, I have walk'd down the lane,
basking all the way in the sun (this farm has a pleasant southerly exposure,) and here I am,
seated under the lee of a bank, close by the water. There are bluebirds already flying about,
and I hear much chirping and twittering and two or three real songs, sustain'd quite awhile,
in the mid-day brilliance and warmth. (There! that is a true carol, coming out boldly and repeatedly,
as if the singer meant it.) Then as the noon strengthens, the reedy trill of the robin--to
my ear the most cheering of bird-notes. At intervals, like bars and breaks (out of the low
murmur that in any scene, however quiet, is never entirely absent to a delicate ear,) the occasional
crunch and cracking of the ice-glare congeal'd over the creek, as it gives way to the sunbeams--sometimes
with low sigh--sometimes with indignant, obstinate tug and snort.

(Robert Burns says in one of his letters: "There is scarcely any earthly object gives me more--I
do not know if I should call it pleasure--but something which exalts me--something which enraptures
me--than to walk in the shelter' d side of a wood in a cloudy winter day, and hear the stormy
wind howling among the trees, and raving over the plain. It is my best season of devotion."
Some of his most characteristic poems were composed in such scenes and seasons.)

A MEADOW LARK

March 16.--Fine, clear, dazzling morning, the sun an hour high, the air just tart enough. What
a stamp in advance my whole day receives from the song of that meadow lark perch'd on a fence-stake
twenty rods distant! Two or three liquid-simple notes, repeated at intervals, full of careless
happiness and hope. With its peculiar shimmering slow progress and rapid-noiseless action of
the wings, it flies on a way, lights on another stake, and so on to another, shimmering and
singing many minutes.

SUNDOWN LIGHTS

May 6, 5 P. M.--This is the hour for strange effects in light and shade-enough to make a colorist
go delirious--long spokes of molten silver sent horizontally through the trees (now in their
brightest tenderest green,) each leaf and branch of endless foliage a lit-up miracle, then
lying all prone on the youthful-ripe, interminable grass, and giving the blades not only aggregate
but individual splendor, in ways unknown to any other hour. I have particular spots where I
get these effects in their perfection. One broad splash lies on the water, with many a rippling
twinkle, offset by the rapidly deepening black-green murky-transparent shadows behind, and
at intervals all along the banks. These, with great shafts of horizontal fire thrown among
the trees and along the grass as the sun lowers, give effects more and more peculiar, more
and more superb, unearthly, rich and dazzling.

THOUGHTS UNDER AN OAK--A DREAM

June 2.--This is the fourth day of a dark northeast storm, wind and rain. Day before yesterday
was my birthday. I have now enter'd on my 60th year. Every day of the storm, protected by overshoes
and a waterproof blanket, I regularly come down to the pond, and ensconce myself under the
lee of the great oak; I am here now writing these lines. The dark smoke-color'd clouds roll
in furious silence athwart the sky; the soft green leaves dangle all around me; the wind steadily
keeps up its hoarse, soothing music over my head--Nature's mighty whisper. Seated here in solitude
I have been musing over my life--connecting events, dates, as links of a chain, neither sadly
nor cheerily, but somehow, to-day here under the oak, in the rain, in an unusually matter-of-fact
spirit.

But my great oak--sturdy, vital, green-five feet thick at the butt. I sit a great deal near
or under him. Then the tulip tree near by--the Apollo of the woods--tall and graceful, yet
robust and sinewy, inimitable in hang of foliage and throwing-out of limb; as if the beauteous,
vital, leafy creature could walk, if it only would. (I had a sort of dream-trance the other
day, in which I saw my favorite trees step out and promenade up, down and around, very curiously--with
a whisper from one, leaning down as he pass'd me, We do all this on the present occasion, exceptionally,
just for you.)

CLOVER AND HAY PERFUME

July 3d, 4th, 5th.--Clear, hot, favorable weather--has been a good summer--the growth of clover
and grass now generally mow'd. The familiar delicious perfume fills the barns and lanes. As
you go along you see the fields of grayish white slightly tinged with yellow, the loosely stack'd
grain, the slow-moving wagons passing, and farmers in the fields with stout boys pitching and
loading the sheaves. The corn is about beginning to tassel. All over the middle and southern
states the spear-shaped battalia, multitudinous, curving, flaunting--long, glossy, dark-green
plumes for the great horseman, earth. I hear the cheery notes of my old acquaintance Tommy
quail; but too late for the whip-poor-will, (though I heard one solitary lingerer night before
last.) I watch the broad majestic flight of a turkey-buzzard, sometimes high up, sometimes
low enough to see the lines of his form, even his spread quills, in relief against the sky.
Once or twice lately I have seen an eagle here at early candle-light flying low.

AN UNKNOWN

June 15.--To-day I noticed a new large bird, size of a nearly grown hen--a haughty, white-bodied
dark-wing'd hawk--I suppose a hawk from his bill and general look--only he had a clear, loud,
quite musical, sort of bell-like call, which he repeated again and again, at intervals, from
a lofty dead tree-top, overhanging the water. Sat there a long time, and I on the opposite
bank watching him. Then he darted down, skimming pretty close to the stream--rose slowly, a
magnificent sight, and sail'd with steady wide-spread wings, no flapping at all, up and down
the pond two or three times, near me, in circles in clear sight, as if for my delectation.
Once he came quite close over my head; I saw plainly his hook'd bill and hard restless eyes.

BIRD-WHISTLING

How much music (wild, simple, savage, doubtless, but so tart-sweet,) there is in mere whistling.
It is four-fifths of the utterance of birds. There are all sorts and styles. For the last half-hour,
now, while I have been sitting here, some feather'd fellow away off in the bushes has been
repeating over and over again what I may call a kind of throbbing whistle. And now a bird about
the robin size has just appear'd, all mulberry red, flitting among the bushes--head, wings,
body, deep red, not very bright--no song, as I have heard. 4. o'clock: There is a real concert
going on around me--a dozen different birds pitching in with a will. There have been occasional
rains, and the growths all show its vivifying influences. As I finish this, seated on a log
close by the pond-edge, much chirping and trilling in the distance, and a feather'd recluse
in the woods near by is singing deliciously--not many notes, but full of music of almost human
sympathy--continuing for a long, long while.

HORSE-MINT

Aug. 22.--Not a human being, and hardly the evidence of one, in sight. After my brief semi-daily
bath, I sit here for a bit, the brook musically brawling, to the chromatic tones of a fretful
cat-bird somewhere off in the bushes. On my walk hither two hours since, through fields and
the old lane, I stopt to view, now the sky, now the mile-off woods on the hill, and now the
apple orchards. What a contrast from New York's or Philadelphia's streets! Everywhere great
patches of dingy-blossom'd horse-mint wafting a spicy odor through the air, (especially evenings.)
Everywhere the flowering boneset, and the rose-bloom of the wild bean.

THREE OF US

July 14.--My two kingfishers still haunt the pond. In the bright sun and breeze and perfect
temperature of to-day, noon, I am sitting here by one of the gurgling brooks, dipping a French
water-pen in the limpid crystal, and using it to write these lines, again watching the feather'd
twain, as they fly and sport athwart the water, so close, almost touching into its surface.
Indeed there seem to be three of us. For nearly an hour I indolently look and join them while
they dart and turn and take their airy gambols, sometimes far up the creek disappearing for
a few moments, and then surely returning again, and performing most of their flight within
sight of me, as if they knew I appreciated and absorb'd their vitality, spirituality, faithfulness,
and the rapid, vanishing, delicate lines of moving yet quiet electricity they draw for me across
the spread of the grass, the trees, and the blue sky. While the brook babbles, babbles, and
the shadows of the boughs dapple in the sunshine around me, and the cool west-by-nor'-west
wind faintly soughs in the thick bushes and tree tops.

Among the objects of beauty and interest now beginning to appear quite plentifully in this
secluded spot, I notice the humming-bird, the dragon-fly with its wings of slate-color'd guaze,
and many varieties of beautiful and plain butterflies, idly flapping among the plants and wild
posies. The mullein has shot up out of its nest of broad leaves, to a tall stalk towering sometimes
five or six feet high, now studded with knobs of golden blossoms. The milk-weed, (I see a great
gorgeous creature of gamboge and black lighting on one as I write,) is in flower, with its
delicate red fringe; and there are profuse clusters of a feathery blossom waving in the wind
on taper stems. I see lots of these and much else in every direction, as I saunter or sit.
For the last half hour a bird has persistently kept up a simple, sweet, melodious song, from
the bushes. (I have a positive conviction that some of these birds sing, and others fly and
flirt about here for my special benefit.)

DEATH OF WILLIAM CULLEN BRYANT

New York City.--Came on from West Philadelphia, June 13, in the 2 P. M. train to Jersey City,
and so across and to my friends, Mr. and Mrs. J. H. J., and their large house, large family
(and large hearts,) amid which I feel at home, at peace--away up on Fifth avenue, near Eighty-sixth
street, quiet, breezy, overlooking the dense woody fringe of the park--plenty of space and
sky, birds chirping, and air comparatively fresh and odorless. Two hours before starting, saw
the announcement of William Cullen Bryant's funeral, and felt a strong desire to attend. I
had known Mr. Bryant over thirty years ago, and he had been markedly kind to me. Off and on,
along that time for years as they pass'd, we met and chatted together. I thought him very sociable
in his way, and a man to become attach'd to. We were both walkers, and when I work'd in Brooklyn
he several times came over, middle of afternoons, and we took rambles miles long, till dark,
out towards Bedford or Flatbush, in company. On these occasions he gave me clear accounts of
scenes in Europe--the cities, looks, architecture, art, especially Italy--where he had travel'd
a good deal.

June 14.--The Funeral.--And so the good, stainless, noble old citizen and poet lies in the
closed coffin there--and this is his funeral. A solemn, impressive, simple scene, to spirit
and senses.

JAUNT UP THE HUDSON

June 2Oth.--On the "Mary Powell," enjoy'd everything beyond precedent. The delicious tender
summer day, just warm enough--the constantly changing but ever beautiful panorama on both sides
of the river--(went up near a hundred miles)--the high straight walls of the stony Palisades--beautiful
Yonkers, and beautiful Irvington--the never-ending hills, mostly in rounded lines, swathed
with verdure,--the distant turns, like great shoulders in blue veils--the frequent gray and
brown of the tall-rising rocks--the river itself, now narrowing, now expanding--the white sails
of the many sloops, yachts, &c., some near, some in the distance--the rapid succession of handsome
villages and cities, (our boat is a swift traveler, and makes few stops)--the Race--picturesque
West Point, and indeed all along--the costly and often turreted mansions forever showing in
some cheery light color, through the woods--make up the scene.

HAPPINESS AND RASPBERRIES

June 21.--Here I am, on the west bank of the Hudson, 80 miles north of New York, near Esopus,
at the handsome, roomy, honeysuckle-and-rose-enbower'd cottage of John Burroughs. The place,
the perfect June days and nights, (leaning toward crisp and cool,) the hospitality of J. and
Mrs. B., the air, the fruit, (especially my favorite dish, currants and raspberries, mixed,
sugar'd, fresh and ripe from the bushes--I pick 'em myself)--the room I occupy at night, the
perfect bed, the window giving an ample view of the Hudson and the opposite shores, so wonderful
toward sunset, and the rolling music of the RR. trains, far over there--the peaceful rest--the
early Venus-heralded dawn--the noiseless splash of sunrise, the light and warmth indescribably
glorious, in which, (soon as the sun is well up,) I have a capital rubbing and rasping with
the flesh-brush--with an extra scour on the back by Al. J., who is here with us--all inspiriting
my invalid frame with new life, for the day. Then, after some whiffs of morning air, the delicious
coffee of Mrs. B., with the cream, strawberries, and many substantials, for breakfast.

A SPECIMEN TRAMP FAMILY

June 22.--This afternoon we went out (J. B., Al. and I) on quite a drive around the country.
The scenery, the perpetual stone fences, (some venerable old fellows, dark-spotted with lichens)--the
many fine locust-trees--the runs of brawling water, often over descents of rock--these, and
lots else. It is lucky the roads are first-rate here, (as they are,) for it is up or down hill
everywhere, and sometimes steep enough. B. has a tip-top horse, strong, young, and both gentle
and fast. There is a great deal of waste land and hills on the river edge of Ulster county,
with a wonderful luxuriance of wild flowers and bushes--and it seems to me I never saw more
vitality of trees--eloquent hemlocks, plenty of locusts and fine maples, and the balm of Gilead,
giving out aroma. In the fields and along the road-sides unusual crops of the tall-stemm'd
wild daisy, white as milk and yellow as gold.

We pass'd quite a number of tramps, singly or in couples--one squad, a family in a rickety
one-horse wagon, with some baskets evidently their work and trade--the man seated on a low
board, in front, driving--the gauntish woman by his side, with a baby well bundled in her arms,
its little red feet and lower legs sticking out right towards us as we pass'd--and in the wagon
behind, we saw two (or three) crouching little children. It was a queer, taking, rather sad
picture. If I had been alone and on foot, I should have stopp'd and held confab. But on our
return nearly two hours afterward, we found them a ways further along the same road, in a lonesome
open spot, haul'd aside, unhitch'd, and evidently going to camp for the night. The freed horse
was not far off, quietly cropping the grass. The man was busy at the wagon, the boy had gather'd
some dry wood, and was making a fire--and as we went a little further we met the woman afoot.
I could not see her face, in its great sun-bonnet, but somehow her figure and gait told misery,
terror, destitution. She had the rag-bundled, half-starv'd infant still in her arms, and in
her hands held two or three baskets, which she had evidently taken to the next house for sale.
A little barefoot five-year old girl-child, with fine eyes, trotted behind her, clutching her
gown. We stopp'd, asking about the baskets, which we bought. As we paid the money, she kept
her face hidden in the recesses of her bonnet. Then as we started, and stopp'd again, Al.,
(whose sympathies were evidently arous'd,) went back to the camping group to get another basket.
He caught a look of her face, and talk'd with her a little. Eyes, voice and manner were those
of a corpse, animated by electricity. She was quite young--the man she was traveling with,
middle-aged. Poor woman--what story was it, out of her fortunes, to account for that inexpressibly
scared way, those glassy eyes, and that hollow voice?

MANHATTAN FROM THE BAY

June 25.--Returned to New York last night. Out to-day on the waters for a sail in the wide
bay, southeast of Staten island--a rough, tossing ride, and a free sight--the long stretch
of Sandy Hook, the highlands of Navesink, and the many vessels outward and inward bound. We
came up through the midst of all, in the full sun. I especially enjoy'd the last hour or two.
A moderate sea-breeze had set in; yet over the city, and the waters adjacent, was a thin haze,
concealing nothing, only adding to the beauty. From my point of view, as I write amid the soft
breeze, with a sea-temperature, surely nothing on earth of its kind can go beyond this show.
To the left the North river with its far vista--nearer, three or four war-ships, anchor'd peacefully--the
Jersey side, the banks of Weehawken, the Palisades, and the gradually receding blue, lost in
the distance--to the right the East river--the mast-hemm'd shores--the grand obelisk-like towers
of the bridge, one on either side, in haze, yet plainly defin'd, giant brothers twain, throwing
free graceful interlinking loops high across the tumbled tumultuous current below--(the tide
is just changing to its ebb)--the broad water-spread everywhere crowded--no, not crowded, but
thick as stars in the sky--with all sorts and sizes of sail and steam vessels, plying ferry-boats,
arriving and departing coasters, great ocean Dons, iron-black, modern, magnificent in size
and power, fill'd with their incalculable value of human life and precious merchandise--with
here and there, above all, those daring, careening things of grace and wonder, those white
and shaded swift-darting fish-birds, (I wonder if shore or sea elsewhere can outvie them,)
ever with their slanting spars, and fierce, pure, hawk-like beauty and motion--first-class
New York sloop or schooner yachts, sailing, this fine day, the free sea in a good wind. And
rising out of the midst, tall-topt, ship-hemm'd, modern, American, yet strangely oriental,
V-shaped Manhattan, with its compact mass, its spires, its cloud-touching edifices group'd
at the centre--the green of the trees, and all the white, brown and gray of the architecture
well blended, as I see it, under a miracle of limpid sky, delicious light of heaven above,
and June haze on the surface below.

HUMAN AND HEROIC NEW YORK

The general subjective view of New York and Brooklyn--(will not the time hasten when the two
shall be municipally united in one, and named Manhattan?)--what I may call the human interior
and exterior of these great seething oceanic populations, as I get it in this visit, is to
me best of all. After an absence of many years, (I went away at the outbreak of the secession
war, and have never been back to stay since,) again I resume with curiosity the crowds, the
streets, I knew so well, Broadway, the ferries, the west side of the city, democratic Bowery--human
appearances and manners as seen in all these, and along the wharves, and in the perpetual travel
of the horse-cars, or the crowded excursion steamers, or in Wall and Nassau streets by day--in
the places of amusement at night--bubbling and whirling and moving like its own environment
of waters--endless humanity in all phases--Brooklyn also--taken in for the last three weeks.
No need to specify minutely--enough to say that (making all allowances for the shadows and
side-streaks of a million-headed-city) the brief total of the impressions, the human qualities,
of these vast cities, is to me comforting, even heroic, beyond statement. Alertness, generally
fine physique, clear eyes that look straight at you, a singular combination of reticence and
self-possession, with good nature and friendliness--a prevailing range of according manners,
taste and intellect, surely beyond any elsewhere upon earth--and a palpable outcropping of
that personal comradeship I look forward to as the subtlest, strongest future hold of this
many-item'd Union--are not only constantly visible here in these mighty channels of men, but
they form the rule and average. To-day, I should say--defiant of cynics and pessimists, and
with a full knowledge of all their exceptions--an appreciative and perceptive study of the
current humanity of New York gives the directest proof yet of successful Democracy, and of
the solution of that paradox, the eligibility of the free and fully developed individual with
the paramount aggregate. In old age, lame and sick, pondering for years on many a doubt and
danger for this republic of ours--fully aware of all that can be said on the other side--I
find in this visit to New York, and the daily contact and rapport with its myriad people, on
the scale of the oceans and tides, the best, most effective medicine my soul has yet partaken--the
grandest physical habitat and surroundings of land and water the globe affords--namely, Manhattan
island and Brooklyn, which the future shall join in one city --city of superb democracy, amid
superb surroundings.

HOURS FOR THE SOUL

July 22d, 1878.--Living down in the country again. A wonderful conjunction of all that goes
to make those sometime miracle-hours after sunset--so near and yet so far. Perfect, or nearly
perfect days, I notice, are not so very uncommon; but the combinations that make perfect nights
are few, even in a life time. We have one of those perfections to-night. Sunset left things
pretty clear; the larger stars were visible soon as the shades allow'd. A while after 8, three
or four great black clouds suddenly rose, seemingly from different points, and sweeping with
broad swirls of wind but no thunder, underspread the orbs from view everywhere, and indicated
a violent heatstorm. But without storm, clouds, blackness and all, sped and vanish'd as suddenly
as they had risen; and from a little after 9 till 11 the atmosphere and the whole show above
were in that state of exceptional clearness and glory just alluded to. In the northwest turned
the Great Dipper with its pointers round the Cynosure. A little south of east the constellation
of the Scorpion was fully up, with red Antares glowing in its neck; while dominating, majestic
Jupiter swam, an hour and a half risen, in the east--(no moon till after 11.) A large part
of the sky seem'd just laid in great splashes of phosphorus. You could look deeper in, farther
through, than usual; the orbs thick as heads of wheat in a field. Not that there was any special
brilliancy either--nothing near as sharp as I have seen of keen winter nights, but a curious
general luminousness throughout to sight, sense, and soul. The latter had much to do with it.
(I am convinced there are hours of Nature, especially of the atmosphere, mornings and evenings,
address'd to the soul. Night transcends, for that purpose, what the proudest day can do.) Now,
indeed, if never before, the heavens declared the glory of God. It was to the full sky of the
Bible, of Arabia, of the prophets, and of the oldest poems. There, in abstraction and stillness,
(I had gone off by myself to absorb the scene, to have the spell unbroken,) the copiousness,
the removedness, vitality, loose-clear-crowdedness, of that stellar concave spreading overhead,
softly absorb'd into me, rising so free, interminably high, stretching east, west, north, south--and
I, though but a point in the centre below, embodying all.

As if for the first time, indeed, creation noiselessly sank into and through me its placid
and untellable lesson, beyond--O, so infinitely beyond!--anything from art, books, sermons,
or from science, old or new. The spirit's hour--religion's hour--the visible suggestion of
God in space and time--now once definitely indicated, if never again. The untold pointed at--the
heavens all paved with it. The Milky Way, as if some superhuman symphony, some ode of universal
vagueness, disdaining syllable and sound--a flashing glance of Deity, address'd to the soul.
All silently--the indescribable night and stars--far off and silently.

THE DAWN.--July 23.--This morning, between one and two hours before sunrise, a spectacle wrought
on the same background, yet of quite different beauty and meaning. The moon well up in the
heavens, and past her half, is shining brightly--the air and sky of that cynical-clear, Minerva-like
quality, virgin cool--not the weight of sentiment or mystery, or passion's ecstasy indefinable--not
the religious sense, the varied All, distill'd and sublimated into one, of the night just described.
Every star now clear-cut, showing for just what it is, there in the colorless ether. The character
of the heralded morning, ineffably sweet and fresh and limpid, but for the esthetic sense alone,
and for purity without sentiment. I have itemized the night--but dare I attempt the cloudless
dawn? (What subtle tie is this between one's soul and the break of day? Alike, and yet no two
nights or morning shows ever exactly alike.) Preceded by an immense star, almost unearthly
in its effusion of white splendor, with two or three long unequal spoke-rays of diamond radiance,
shedding down through the fresh morning air below--an hour of this, and then the sunrise.

THE EAST.--What a subject for a poem! Indeed, where else a more pregnant, more splendid one?
Where one more idealistic-real, more subtle, more sensuous-delicate? The East, answering all
lands, all ages, peoples; touching all senses, here, immediate, now--and yet so indescribably
far off--such retrospect! With sunburnt visage, intense soul and glittering eyes. Always the
East--old, how incalculably old! And yet here the same--ours yet, fresh as a rose, to every
morning, every life, to-day--and always will be.

Sept. 17. Another presentation--same theme--just before sunrise again, (a favorite hour with
me.) The clear gray sky, a faint glow in the dull liver-color of the east, the cool fresh odor
and the moisture--the cattle and horses off there grazing in the fields--the star Venus again,
two hours high. For sounds, the chirping of crickets in the grass, the clarion of chanticleer,
and the distant cawing of an early crow. Quietly over the dense fringe of cedars and pines
rises that dazzling, red, transparent disk of flame, and the low sheets of white vapor roll
and roll into dissolution.

THE MOON.--May 18.--I went to bed early last night, but found myself waked shortly after 12,
and, turning awhile, sleepless and mentally feverish, I rose, dress'd myself, sallied forth
and walk'd down the lane. The full moon, some three or four hours up--a sprinkle of light and
less-light clouds just lazily moving--Jupiter an hour high in the east, and here and there
throughout the heavens a random star appearing and disappearing. So beautifully veiled and
varied--the air, with that early-summer perfume, not at all damp or raw--at times Luna languidly
emerging in richest brightness for minutes, and then partially envelop'd again. Far off a poor
whip-poor-will plied his notes incessantly. It was that silent time between 1 and 3.

The rare nocturnal scene, how soon it sooth'd and pacified me! Is there not something about
the moon, some relation or reminder, which no poem or literature has yet caught? (In very old
and primitive ballads I have come across lines or asides that suggest it.) After a while the
clouds mostly clear'd, and as the moon swam on, she carried, shimmering and shifting, delicate
color-effects of pellucid green and tawny vapor. Let me conclude this part with an extract,
(some writer in the "Tribune," May 16, 1878):

  No one ever gets tired of the moon. Goddess that she is by dower of
  her eternal beauty, she is a true woman by her tact--knows the charm
  of being seldom seen, of coming by surprise and staying but a little
  while; never wears the same dress two nights running, nor all night
  the same way; commends herself to the matter-of-fact people by her
  usefulness, and makes her uselessness adored by poets, artists, and
  all lovers in all lands; lends herself to every symbolism and to
  every emblem; is Diana's bow and Venus's mirror and Mary's throne;
  is a sickle, a scarf, an eyebrow, his face or her face, and look'd
  at by her or by him; is the madman's hell, the poet's heaven, the
  baby's toy, the philosopher's study; and while her admirers follow
  her footsteps, and hang on her lovely looks, she knows how to keep
  her woman's secret--her other side--unguess'd and unguessable.

Furthermore. February 19, 1880.--Just before 10 P.M. cold and entirely clear again, the show
overhead, bearing southwest, of wonderful and crowded magnificence. The moon in her third quarter
--the clusters of the Hyades and Pleiades, with the planet Mars between--in full crossing sprawl
in the sky the great Egyptian X, (Sirius, Procyon, and the main stars in the constellations
of the Ship, the Dove, and of Orion;) just north of east Bootes, and in his knee Arcturus,
an hour high, mounting the heaven, ambitiously large and sparkling, as if he meant to challenge
with Sirius the stellar supremacy.

With the sentiment of the stars and moon such nights I get all the free margins and indefiniteness
of music or poetry, fused in geometry's utmost exactness.

STRAW-COLOR'D AND OTHER PSYCHES

Aug. 4.--A pretty sight! Where I sit in the shade--a warm day, the sun shining from cloudless
skies, the forenoon well advanc'd--I look over a ten-acre field of luxuriant clover-hay, (the
second crop)--the livid-ripe red blossoms and dabs of August brown thickly spotting the prevailing
dark-green. Over all flutter myriads of light-yellow butterflies, mostly skimming along the
surface, dipping and oscillating, giving a curious animation to the scene. The beautiful, spiritual
insects! straw-color'd Psyches! Occasionally one of them leaves his mates, and mounts, perhaps
spirally, perhaps in a straight line in the air, fluttering up, up, till literally out of sight.
In the lane as I came along just now I noticed one spot, ten feet square or so, where more
than a hundred had collected, holding a revel, a gyration-dance, or butterfly good-time, winding
and circling, down and across, but always keeping within the limits. The little creatures have
come out all of a sudden the last few days, and are now very plentiful. As I sit outdoors,
or walk, I hardly look around without somewhere seeing two (always two) fluttering through
the air in amorous dalliance. Then their inimitable color, their fragility, peculiar motion--and
that strange, frequent way of one leaving the crowd and mounting up, up in the free ether,
and apparently never returning. As I look over the field, these yellow-wings everywhere mildly
sparkling, many snowy blossoms of the wild carrot gracefully bending on their tall and taper
stems--while for sounds, the distant guttural screech of a flock of guinea-hens comes shrilly
yet somehow musically to my ears. And now a faint growl of heat-thunder in the north--and ever
the low rising and falling wind-purr from the tops of the maples and willows.

Aug. 20.--Butterflies and butterflies, (taking the place of the bumble-bees of three months
since, who have quite disappear'd,) continue to flit to and fro, all sorts, white, yellow,
brown, purple--now and then some gorgeous fellow flashing lazily by on wings like artists'
palettes dabb'd with every color. Over the breast of the pond I notice many white ones, crossing,
pursuing their idle capricious flight. Near where I sit grows a tall-stemm'd weed topt with
a profusion of rich scarlet blossoms, on which the snowy insects alight and dally, sometimes
four or five of them at a time. By-and-by a humming-bird visits the same, and I watch him coming
and going, daintily balancing and shimmering about. These white butterflies give new beautiful
contrasts to the pure greens of the August foliage, (we have had some copious rains lately,)
and over the glistening bronze of the pond-surface. You can tame even such insects; I have
one big and handsome moth down here, knows and comes to me, likes me to hold him up on my extended
hand.

Another Day, later.--A grand twelve-acre field of ripe cabbages with their prevailing hue of
malachite green, and floating-flying over and among them in all directions myriads of these
same white butterflies. As I came up the lane to-day I saw a living globe of the same, two
or three feet in diameter, many scores cluster'd together and rolling along in the air, adhering
to their ball-shape, six or eight feet above the ground.

A NIGHT REMEMBRANCE

Aug. 23, 9-10 A.M.--I sit by the pond, everything quiet, the broad polish'd surface spread
before me--the blue of the heavens and the white clouds reflected from it--and flitting across,
now and then, the reflection of some flying bird. Last night I was down here with a friend
till after midnight; everything a miracle of splendor--the glory of the stars, and the completely
rounded moon--the passing clouds, silver and luminous-tawny--now and then masses of vapory
illuminated scud--and silently by my side my dear friend. The shades of the trees, and patches
of moonlight on the grass--the softly blowing breeze, and just-palpable odor of the neighboring
ripening corn--the indolent and spiritual night, inexpressibly rich, tender, suggestive--something
altogether to filter through one's soul, and nourish and feed and soothe the memory long afterwards.

WILD FLOWERS

This has been and is yet a great season for wild flowers; oceans of them line the roads through
the woods, border the edges of the water-runlets, grow all along the old fences, and are scatter'd
in profusion over the fields. An eight-petal'd blossom of gold-yellow, clear and bright, with
a brown tuft in the middle, nearly as large as a silver half-dollar, is very common; yesterday
on a long drive I noticed it thickly lining the borders of the brooks everywhere. Then there
is a beautiful weed cover'd with blue flowers, (the blue of the old Chinese teacups treasur'd
by our grand-aunts,) I am continually stopping to admire--a little larger than a dime, and
very plentiful. White, however, is the prevailing color. The wild carrot I have spoken of;
also the fragrant life-everlasting. But there are all hues and beauties, especially on the
frequent tracts of half-opened scrub-oak and dwarf cedar hereabout--wild asters of all colors.
Notwithstanding the frost-touch the hardy little chaps maintain themselves in all their bloom.
The tree-leaves, too, some of them are beginning to turn yellow or drab or dull green. The
deep wine-color of the sumachs and gum-treesis already visible, and the straw-color of the
dog-wood and beech. Let me give the names of some of these perennial blossoms and friendly
weeds I have made acquaintance with hereabout one season or another in my walks:

