May 25. rany as time. father ofered 30 dolars for old man Collins cow. he wants 35 dolars.
she has got auful long horns. old man Collins said she had auful big milk vanes. father said
they was varrycose vanes and she want wirth 30 dolars but he wood give it to help out a old
man. old man Collins he said if she kep on giving milk the way she was a giving it they wood
have to milk her in a tub. then father he said he gessed she give so mutch milk that it want
good for ennything and old man Collins he said you cood take the creem up by one corner and
lift it out like a old pair of linen britches. they dident trade tonite.

May 26. brite and fair. tonite me and father went down to old man Collins agen. father said
he was going to trade for that cow only i must shet up and not say ennything. he said you jest
wach me and you will lern sumthing about trading. so i wached him. well we went down and father
said well mister Collins how do you feel about trading tonite. and old man Collins he said,
i gess you are two late George fer i have sold her to a man in Hamton Falls. and father said
what did you get for her and old man Collins he said i told him he cood have her for 35 dolars
and he ofered me 33 dolars and 50 cents and i said the first man whitch ofers me 35 dolars
gets her, and i gess he will be up tomorow morning. then father he said have you made the trade
and old man Collins he said he hadent made enny trade but he had kind of let the man understand
he cood have her for 35 dolars. then father he said he wood give 35 dolars and old man Collins
he said he dident know about selling her xcept to the Hamton Falls man but if father wood give
him 37 dolars he cood give the Hamton Falls man 2 dolars if he came up and was disapointed.
so father he give old man Collins 37 dolars and we got a roap and tide it round her horns and
led her home. when we got home we tried to get her in the barn, father he went ahead and she
folowed him in and all of a suddin she backed out lively and father came out jest fluking,
holding on to the roap and taking feerful long stradles. he looked so mad that i dident dass
to laff. well father held on like a good feller and bimeby she stoped. then father said so
so and held out sum meal in a pail and got her in the barn and tide her to a post. then he
give her sum hay and we went in and he told mother she had beter make sum araingments to sell
sum milk for we was going to have 20 quats every day. then mother she said if the cow gives
milk like my hens lade egs they woodent be mutch milk to sell, and father said you jest wait
til morning. then we went down to old Gechels store and father he bougt the bigest milk pail
he cood find.

May 27. brite and fair. this morning me and father got up erly and we went out to feed the
cow and i piched down the hay and father he set down and begun to milk her, he brougt out the
big pail and a little one to use after he had filled the big one. well the ferst thing he did
was to aim a streem rite in my eye. then he milked in the pail and it made a funy sound, well
he kep milking and bimeby it stoped coming, and he squeazed away as hard as he cood and he
coodent get a drop and bimeby he give up and said he gessed it was becaus she was in a new
place and was loansum. when we went into the house and straned it thrugh a siv they wasent
quite 2 quats. mother she laffed and asked what he had done with the other 8 quats and father
he said you wait til tonite. then he et his brekfast and went to boston and i et mine and drove
the old cow to pasture. i found a robins nest in a pine tree and took one eg. it is all rite
to take one becaus the old bird cant count.

May 28, 186- brite and fair. last nite after super father milked the old cow again. he only
got 2 quats and a half. he was prety mad and he said he wood get even with old man Collins
sum day. tonite he met old man Collins and he asked father if she milked esy and father said
yes and he asked father how mutch she give and father said she give more than he wanted. that
want a lie for father dont like milk. i bet father will get even with him sum day. nothing
else today but church.

May 29. brite and fair. i have to go to pasture 2 times every day. i like to go in the woods
but i dont like to have to go. today i found a nest in the barn with 15 hens egs. i gess mother
wont say mutch about my hens now.

May 30. Rany. Beany has gone to Bideford to see Tom Cleves. i hope Tom will come with him when
Beany comes home. i went up to Whacker Chadwicks tonite. Beany has been sick he et two mutch pork.

May 31. today it was hot and we had a thunder shower. it raned when i was driving the old cow
from pasture and i made her run from old Nat Gordons way home. Sam Dire said she wood give
bludy milk, so when father milked her i wached and it want a bit red. so i gess she is all rite.

June 1. brite and fair. today we had a great time at brekfast. father was home becaus sumtimes
he gets tired. we had boiled egs for brekfast and mother she boiled the egs i found in the
nest. well we set down to the table and father he helped us to egs and bisket and he took up
a eg and held it over his glass and hit it a paist with his spoon and it went off jest like
a pop pistol and father he said thunder Joey the infernal thing is roten and we all held our
nose and ran away from the table and you never smelt such a auful smel. well mother she made
me take the egs all out behine the barn and throw them away and i did and when i got there
i had sum fun pluging them at J. Albert Clarks big apple tree and i hit it most every time
and every time i hit it the eg popped like a pistol. then i went in to brekfast and mother
was burning some coffy in a duspan to take away the smel of the roten eg. well while we was
eating brekfast J. Albert Clark he came in and said i had beter come out and clean of his apple
tree and burn a rag and father made me take a pail of hot water and clean it of. J. Albert
needent have been so fusy for it wood have all dride in a little while.

June 2. brite and fair. i wish that old cow was ded. Beany hasent got back yet.

June 3. brite and fair. i am in bed. i aint sick only i havent got enny close to wair. tonite
after father had milked the old cow i thougt i wood try it. so i got a tin diper and went out
and set down and began to squeaze and she kicked me rite thrugh the barn door and rite into
the manure pile. when i got up i was all covered and Aunt Clark was in her back garden and
she saw me and asked me if i was hurt and i said i wasent and she said for mersy sakes dont
come near me but go round to the pump. well i went round to the pump and mother and Aunt Sarah
and Aunt Clark pumped on me and threw pails of water on me and scraped me with peaces of shingle,
and when they had got me prety clean mother made me go in the barn and take of my close and
then she put me in a tub in the kichen and washed me in warm water and soped my head and then
sent me to bed. i have got to wair my best close tomorow and i cant go out of the yard. i wish
that old cow was ded. father said it sirved me jest rite.

June 4. Brite and fair. Beany has got back. tonite he came over and told me about the fun he
had at Bideford. we was going to ring doorbells tonite but i had to stay in the yard and it
was sunday two.

June 5. Brite and fair. today Scotty Brigam let me take his bugle and i lerned to make 2 notes.
my mouth was all sweled up and my face aked. it aint so esy as a tin whissle but i can make
more noise on it. i gess i shall never get that cornet.

June 6, 186- i have to pay all the money i can ern to get corn for my hens.

June 7. Brite and fair in the morning and clowdy but no rane in the afternoon. tonite me and
Beany rung doorbells. we dident get cougt but we came prety near it.

June 8. Rany. Tonite the old cow kicked father and nocked him rite of the stool and spilt about
a quat of milk all over him. buly. i wanted to tell him it sirved him rite but i dident dass to.

June 9. Clowdy but no rane. father has sold the old cow to Eben Garland the bucher. buly. Aunt
Sarah asked mother what she gessed he wood have next and mother she said she gessed he wood
by a gristly bear for he had bougt most everything but that. he says he gesses he will have
sum sheap for they cant bite or kick and dont eat mutch.

June 10. brite and fair. the baby had the croop last nite. the minit he coffed croopy father
and mother jumped out of bed and father he fell over a chair and that waked us all up. then
he tride to lite a lamp and he coodent find the maches and he swoar round feerful. well mother
she lit the lamp and they all went tearing round and they got sum hot water and made the baby
eat some eg and sugar and put hot close on his neck and prety soon he was all rite. then they
give me the rest of the eg and sugar. then we all went to bed and i lay and laffed to think
of father tumbling over the chair and swaring. Ennyway the baby is all rite.

June 11. i hate to go to church. we have all got to be vaxinated. sum peeple in the next town
have got the small pocks. Beany has been and Pewt two. Beany says the doctor takes a nife and
cuts a hole in your arm and then puts on a big scab whitch has come of somebodys arm whitch
has been vaxinated, and that stops the blud. but he says that if the scab dont fit you bleed
to deth. so i asked father about it tonite and he said that Beany lied about it, but he says
if you are vaxinated with the scab of a redheaded person your hair will turn red, and if he
has warts or frekles you will have warts two and frekles. father said once when he was a boy
he knew a feller whitch was vaxinated with a scab of a cock-eyed man and bimeby the feller
began to squint and he kep on squinting wirse and wirse and bimeby he was cock-eyed two. and
father he said he knew another feller whitch had a wooden leg and he sent his scab to another
feller to be vaxinated and that feller began to limp and he always walked stifleged. i gess
father was fooling. ennyway i hope i shant be vaxinated with Skinny Bruces scab, becaus he
is redheaded. father he said he was going to get a scab of Horis Cobb for me and perhaps i
wood have a little fat on me and not be so spindel shanked. i wish i cood get a scab of Gim
Erly or Tady Finton and i cood lick time out of Pewt.

June 12. brite and fair. Beany has a auful sore arm. he dont dass to rassle or fite or do ennything.

June 13. brite and fair. Pewt has got one two. tomorrow nite the doctor is coming.

June 15. brite and fair. last nite after super the doctor come and he went into the parlor
and father and mother and Cele and Keene and me and Georgie and Annie and Frank and the baby
was all in the setting room. well ferst father went in and he was only in there a few minits
and he dident holler enny and then he come out laffing, and i asked him whose scab he had and
he said he dident know but it must have been from sum minister becaus he had been thanking
the lord it was all over. then mother she went in and father told her he had got the scab of
old Mike Casey for her. mother is english and she dont like the irish and father said it to
plage her. well she went in and then Aunt Sarah went in and Keene and Cele and they dident
holler eether. then my tern came and i went in and it dident hurt a bit only sort of smarted
tickly like. i asked the doctor whose scab i had and he said Bruce Brigams. buly. Bruce Brigam
is the best cornet player in town. i bet i can play like time if i ever get a cornet. then
the rest of them went in and none of them hollered xcept the baby and he always hollers when
ennything is the matter. father told Cele that he got old Nigger Tashs scab for her and he
gessed she wood begin to turn prety dark culored before a week or 2. Aunt Sarah told Cele he
was fooling.

June 16, 186- Brite and fair. my arm is all rite.

June 17. Rany and thunderry. my arm begins to ich a little only i cant scrach it.

June 18. still rany. all our arms begin to ich. Annies arm is the wirst. we dident go to church
today. That is one good thing. I never knew it to rane before on sunday.

June 19. brite and fair. every one of us is cross as time. i took hold of Georgies arm today
and she began to ball and said i did it purpose. i keep hiting my arm agenst things all the
time. somehow i never hit the well one. that is always the way with things.

June 20. brite and fair. father is cross two. last nite he grabed me by the arm to shake me
and it hurt so i hollered like time, and then he let me go and said he forgot about my arm.

June 21. brite and fair. Annie is in bed sick with her arm. She always has things the wirst
xcept mother, only mother says she hasent enny time to be sick.

June 22. brite and fair. my arm is still auful sore and the wirst of it is becaus i cant go
in swimming.

June 23. Brite and fair. All our arms is better. John Johnson who rings the town bell has gone
away for a week and Beanys father is going to ring it. He has to ring it at 7 oh clock in the
morning and at 1 oh clock in the afternoon and at 9 oh clock in the nite except Saturday nites
when they ring it at 8 oh clock so that peeple can get there baths before bedtime. Me and Beany
are going to lern to ring it.

June 24. Rany. me and Beany went up to the church today to see Beanys father ring the town
bell, he let us pull it a little, it is prety esy. then we went up at 1 oh clock and at 9 oh clock.

June 25. Rany again. most of our scabs has come of. i dident go up to see Mister Watson ring
the bell this morning becaus i dident get up in time, it was sunday. Beany he dident neether,
but we did tonite. Beany can ring it prety well.

June 26. Brite and fair. jest think, Beanys father is going to Portsmuth tomorrow and Beany
is going to ring the bell and he is going to let me help him. Beany is a prety good feller.
mother sent of the scabs today to peeple whitch wanted them. nobody wanted mine. father said
it was becaus i was such a tuf feller.

June 27. Brite and fair. gosh if we dident have a auful time today. in the morning me and Beany
went up to the church and rung the bell, we had a good time and rung it jest so many rings
jest as mister Watson, Beanys father told us to, then me and Beany both got kep after school,
and when we got out we asked Noot Crummet what time it was and he said it was jest 1 oh clock
and that the town bell had jest struck and then me and Beany jest put for the church as tite
as we cood hiper, and we was prety near tuckered out when we got there and we both grabed hold
of the roap and begun to ring the bell. well we only rung it a few times before we herd sumone
holler fire, and then more peeple begun to holler and we looked out and we saw Charles Fifield
and Charly Batcheldor and Chick Randall and Jimmy Josie jest putting it for the ingine house,
and Beany said buly they is a fire, and we begun to ring the bell as hard as we cood and holler
fire. then the Methydist bell begun to ring and then the upper house bell, and Charles Tolls
horses came galoping down to the fountain ingine house with Mat Sleeper driving. And Mager
Blakes horses went by jest lickety larup for the Torrent ingine house with old Brown driving,
and then Flunk Ham came piling into the church and said, give me that roap and he puled like
time, then sum peeple came runing in and said where is the fire, and Flunk he said we dident
know, and then we herd the ingine and went out and they was the Torrent and the fountain and
lots of men, and they said where in hel is the fire and nobody knowed where it was. and then
Chick Randall he asked Flunk what he was ringing the bell for and Flunk he said he found me
and Beany ringing it. then they asked us what we was ringing it for and we said we was ringing
it for Mister Watson Beanys father, because he was going to ring it for Mister Johnson, and
he had to go to Portsmuth and so he told Beany to ring it, and then old Brown he said us was
fools and asked us if we dident know enuf to tell time and he said it was only 20 minits past
12 oh clock when the bell begun to ring, and some of the peeple was mad and said we had aught
to be arested, and then we said that Noot Crummet told us it was 1 oh clock and then sum of
them begun to laff and said it was a good one. Ennyway me and Beany run home as quick as we
cood and the peeple went of two. well tonite father said if he had got into so many scrapes
when he was a boy as me and Beany did he wood have been in jale. and Aunt Sarah laffed and
said she gessed she cood tell a few things if she wanted to and father he said he cood two
but he gessed he woodent. Ennyway he said Gim Melcher and Charles Talor led him into a good
many scrapes and Aunt Sarah she said she gessed me and Beany and Pewt want a sercumstance to
father and Gim Melcher and Charles Talor.

June 28. brite and fair. it is most fourth of July again. they is going to be a band concert
on the square. i shant have as mutch money as last year. ennyway i bet i will have a good time.
i went in swiming 4 times today. i coodent go in while my arm was sore. Annie is most well
but cross as time.

June 29. brite and fair. i went in swiming 5 times today. tomorow me and Pewt is going pikerilling.
Pewt is a good feller to fish. fourth of July is coming next week.

June 30. today me and Pewt went fishing. We got Charles Flanders little blew bote. it is the
esiest bote to row i ever rowd. Pewt cougt 4 pikeril and 5 kivies and 3 pirch. i cougt 2 pikeril
and 2 kivies and 4 pirch and 1 sucker. we cougt sum minnies and shiners for bate but we dident
call them ennything. we div of the bank at the eddy, once Pewt sliped and come down all guts,
it nocked the wind all out of him.

July 1. brite and fair. today is the first day of July, and we had my fish fride for brekfast.

July 2. brite and fair. i bougt 5 bunches of snapcrackers and 2 bunches of canon crackers and
sum slow mach and put them in a box in my room. tomorow is the nite before fourth. Pewt is
going to have a pistol and Beany a canon. father he says if he hears of me fooling with a gun
he will lick me and send me to bed for a week. ennyway he dident say ennything about a pistol
or a canon.

July 3. gosh i was scart today. this morning i went up to my room to look at my snap crackers.
i got the box on the floor and was counting them when i looked out of the window. i saw old
Miss Hartnett hanging out sum close on the line, i thougt i cood make her gump and i wanted
to try jest one canon cracker to see if they was good ones. well i lit one and pluged it down
behind her, and jest as she was reaching up with her mouth full of close pins it went of bang,
and she hollered love of God and went rite over backwards. i thougt i shood die and jest then
one went of bang rite in the room and then they all begun to go of bang bang bang and i grabed
the box up and pluged it out of the window and mother came up jest hipering and the room was
full of smoke and i was stamping out the burning paper. well when i got it out she was prety
mad with me and made me clean the room and wash the floor and windows. ferst i went out and
picked up my snapcrackers. they were all rite but all the canon crackers but 2 had went of.
Mother she asked me how they got afire and i said i was fooling with them and they got on fire
and i had to plug them out of the window. then she said that was what fritened Miss Hartnett
so and i said was she fritened and she said she was so fritened that she fell over backwards
and i said is that so. mother dont know i did it on purpose whitch is prety good luck for me,
so she only made me keep my snapcrackers in the yard. so i put them in a hole in the apple
tree. gosh, you aught to hear Miss Hartnett tell about it.

July 7, 186- brite and fair. i have been in bed 3 days. on the fourth i got bloan up with Pewts
canon. i had fired all my snapcrackers but 2 bunches whitch i had saved for nite, so me and
Pewt we was fixing the canon, ferst we wood put in sum powder and then we wood put in sum wet
paper for a wod and then we wood put in sum grass and then put in the ramrod and pound it down
with a rock. then we wood put a fuze of a snap cracker in the tuch hole and lite it and put
for the other side of the street and it wood make an auful bang and tern 2 or 3 sumersets.
Well we had lots of fun and bimeby i was poaring out sum powder out of the powder horn and
all of a suddin they was a flash of litening and the next i knew i was in bed and father and
mother and Cele and Keene and docter Perry and aunt Sarah and aunt Clark and Georgie was in
the room, and i said what is the matter and mother began to laff and then to cry and Docter
Perry he said you had better take her out and let her lie down, but mother she said she wood
be all rite and docter he said you needent wurry Missis Shute, you coodent kill this boy with
brik. well my eyes smarted and i felt like the room was spinning round but it dident hurt enny.
well that nite i coodent go to the band concert but they pushed my bed up to the window and
i cood hear it prety good. the next day i had sum buly gelly and oranges and Cele and Keene
read to me and in the afternoon Beany came in to see me. Beany he burnt his hand on the fourth
and Pewt he burnt of one eyebrow and so we all had a prety good fourth. Yesterday Boog and
Puzzy came down and fit for me until mother came up. i am all rite now and tomorow i can go
in swiming. it was the babys berthday today. he was just 1 year old. he is a auful fat little
baby, when i was sick mother wood let him sit on the bed.

July 8. brite and fair. i went in swimming today. the water was jest as warm as if it came
out of the kittle. next monday i am going bull froging with Cawcaw Harding.

July 9. brite and fair, nothing today but church.

July 10. me and Cawcaw had a prety good time today. we cougt 3 dozen bull frogs legs. we got
sum old busters. it is auful funny to catch them. they will bite a bare hook, so we swing the
hook by them and they gump for it and then they kick and almost tern rong side out trying to
get of of the hook. then we grab them by the legs and whak their heads over the side of the
bote and their inside comes out and sumtimes lots of hard water snales comes ratling out and
sumtimes they has fishes and sumtimes other bull frogs or stripers. then we cut of there legs.
me and Cawcaw always kill them ferst. sum fellers cut of there legs ferst, that is prety cruil
i think. Cawcaw he thinks so two.

July 11. brite and fair. today i went in swiming up to sandy bottum. Whack and Boog and Puzzy
were there and got to pluging green apples. Whack got behind a tree and jest as he peeked out
Boog pluged a hard one and took Whack rite in the mouth. then Whack got mad and said he cood
lick Boog and Puzzy together, so Boog and Puzzy piched in and had a good fite and punched time
out of Whack. While i was waching them fite, sumbody tide gnots in my shert sleavs so tite
that i coodent get them out so i had to go home without my shert on. it was prety lucky i had
my jaket on.

July 12. Today i went up to Whacks and we et sum green currents with shugar on them and then
et sum green apples and then we went in swimming down to sandy bottum. i dont feel very well
tonite, i have got a bely ake.

July 13. i have been sick all day, mother made me take a big spoon full of caster oil.

July 14. i am beter today, it raned all day and tonite they was a thunder shower, it struck
a tree in Gilman field.

July 15. i went up to Whacks agen today. i dident eat enny green apples or green currents you
bet. Whack and Boog and Puzzy did and they give little Willie sum. they never have the bely
ake. i never see such fellers.

July 16. i have got a velosipede, it ways 90 pounds. i have got so i can ride it down hill,
last nite i was riding it up by Gim Odlins and it ran rite into a tree and i came of rite over
it and scrached my hands and nocked the skin of my gnees. today was sunday and i coodent ride
it but i set on it.

July 17. Hot as time today. Docter Gerrish and Docter Perry and J. Albert Clark have all got
buly velossipedes, they have spring backs but mine is solid iron back and when i go over a
bump or a stone it most ratles my teeth out. Beany he can ride two, but Pewt cant.

July 18. feerful hot.

July 19, 186- we fellers is going to have a swiming mach. they is going to be prises for the
feller whitch can dive the best and for the feller whitch can swim the fastest and for the
feller whitch can swim the furtherest under water and for the feller whitch can flote the best
without wigling his arms and legs. i bet i will beat sum of the fellers. most of the fellers
can beat me rassling or nocking of hats or running or gumping but i bet i will show them sumthing
when we come to race in swiming. i practised today diving until my head aked feerful.

July 20. the race is to be next Wensday. They is Pewt and Beany and Fatty Gilman and Fatty
Melcher. Boog and Whack and Puzzy was going to race but they wanted to have it at sandy bottum
and we fellers wanted to have the diving mach at the oak and the swiming under water at the
gravil becaus it is wider there, and so they was mad and woodent come in. Ennyway sandy bottum
isent wide enuf and you cant tell whether a feller is swiming one foot on bottum. today i went
in 7 times. ferst i practised swiming fast bullfrog fashion. next i practised side stroak next
i practised swiming under water. i swum 5 times acros at the gravil. then i practised floteing,
but i cant flote without keeping my hands moving. ferst my feet sink and when i get straight
up and down my head goes under. then i div until my head aked like time agen. i feel prety
tired tonite.

July 21. rany as time. i only went in swiming 2 times today and i dident dive enny. i only
practised swiming fast and floteing. i coodent flote. in every boys book of sports and amuzements
it says throw yourself on your back and throw your head back and hold your breth and you will
not drownd until asistance reeches you. so i tride it today but i coodent hold my breth more
than 1 minit and as soon as i let out my breth down i went unless i kep my hands moving. so
what the man whitch rote that book said aint so unless asistance comes in 1 minit.

July 22. brite and fair and hot as time. Pewt thinks he is going to beat me swiming. i gess
he will find out.

July 23. today was sunday and i coodent practise swiming or diving, darn it.

July 24. brite and fair. i only went in swiming 2 times today, once this morning and once this
afternoon, but i staid in all the morning and all the afternoon so i coodent go in more then
2 times. the race is day after tomorow.

July 25. brite and fair. today we went up to Pewts and we aranged about the prises. Pewt was
to give the prises. the prise for swiming fast was a bag of erly apples from Pewts garden.
the prise for swiming under water was a gewsharp and the prise for the best diver was a cain
fishing pole and the prise for floteing was a arrow rifle. we all give 5 cents eech to buy
the cain pole. the gewsharp was one whitch Pewt had and the arrow rifle Pewt had made. So Pewt
he said as long as he give 2 of the prises he was to have the say about whitch beat.

July 26. brite and fair. the fellers plaid a meen trick on me today. the meenist i ever see.
i wont ever speak to enny of them agen. this morning we had the race. ferst we had the fast
race. we started at the oak and swum down to the gravil. i was as far as from here to Beanys
house ahead. so i got the apples. Fatty Melcher was next and Pewt was next and Beany and Fatty
Gilman got tired and went ashore. next we had the floteing mach. Fatty Gilman floted the longest
and then Beany becaus he was fat two and then Pewt and then Fatty Melcher and then me. i was
the wirst and the fellers all howled at me. so Fatty Gilman he got the arrow rifle. i dont
cair. then we went back to the oak to have the diving mach. after we had div Beany and Fatty
Melcher they said i div the best and Pewt and Fatty Gilman said Pewt div the best. then Pewt
giv himself the prise becaus he had the say. i was prety mad. then we went down to the gravil
to have the swiming under water mach so i went ferst and i swum from the going in place on
Moltons field to the elm tree on old Nat Gilmans side and when i come up and looked round they
wasent enny feller ennywhere. so i swum back prety lively and my close was gone and the apples
and the gewsharp and the fellers two. so i dident know what to do. i thougt they had hid the
close and i hunted in the buches but i dident find them. so i wated a long time and bimeby
i heard sum oars and i looked and i saw a bote with a feller and 2 girls, so i coodent holler
and i hid behind a tree. so they went by and then i come out and i walked back to the oak and
when i got there i found sum girls picking dasies and i lay down behind the fence and just
then a hornet stung me 2 times and i yelled and gumped rite up and danced round before i thougt
and then i see them and i hipered back to the gravil, they hipered two the other way you bet.
well i set there in the shade for a long time until i got kind of cold and then i set in the
sun. i thougt sum of the fellers wood come in swiming, but nobody come. i knowed if i wated
til dark i cood get home all rite, only i wood get a licking for scaring the folks most to
deth for they wood think i was drownded. well jest then i heard sum fellers talking up by the
oak and i went up and there was Potter Goram and Chick Chickering. they had been fishing and
had cougt sum buly pikeril. well i holered to them and they come down where i was and i told
them about the meen trick the fellers had plaid on me and Potter he said he wood go home for
sum close and he give me his jaket and then he hipered acres the field and me and Chick began
to fish and i cougt a pirch and a eal and Chick he cougt 2 roach. then Potter he come back
with my best close and so i coodent fish enny more. so i went home in my best close. when i
went by Pewts he holered Plupy has got on his best close. i dident say ennything. so when i
got home mother asked me about it and i told her, it want telltaily eether. so mother she told
me to go up to Pewts for my close and i said if Pewt took them he cood bring them back and
Beany and Fatty two. so at super father he asked me why i had got on my best close and i told
him and he said if Pewt dident bring those close back in about 5 minits he wood go up and boot
him down to our house and back agen and jest then Mister Purington came into the yard holding
Pewt by the ear. Pewt he had the close and Mister Purington he nocked at the door and he asked
for me and when i come to the door he made Pewt give me the close and then he told Pewt to
tell me he was sorry for what he had done and Pewt he dident want to say it but Mister Purington
most lifted Pewt of the ground by the ear and then Pewt he said he was sorry kind of mad like
and Mister Purington lifted him up agen til Pewt he stood on his tip toes and his face was
all onesided and his eyes all squinty and then he had to say it over agen polite. and then
Mister Purington he led Pewt home all the way by the ear. i thougt i shood die. it sirved Pewt
jest rite. father laffed when i told him how the hornet stung me and how the girls hipered.

July 27. brite and fair. Pewt cant go out of the yard today. i dident speak to Beany.

July 28. brite and fair. i am going with Potter and Chick Chickering instead of Pewt and Beany.
we went butterflying today.

July 29. brite and fair. nothing to wright today.

July 30. thunder storm rite after church. i wish it had been rite before.

July 31. tonite a man come down to see father and said i had gumped up behind a fence without
my close on and scart his girls. he was stoping at the beach and they come up to Mager Blakes
hotel. well father called me in and i told the man all about it and bimeby he begun to laff
and he said it was a prety meen trick on me and he shook hands with me and he was glad i dident
do it a purpose only he was sorry i got stung.

Aug. 1. me and Potter and Chick went fishing. Chick fell of little river brige with his close
on. Potter caugt a whacking snaping tirtle. he gave it to Sam Dire and he cut his head of after
it was cut of it wood bite a stick. Sam says it wont die til the sun goes down. he says that
if you cut a snake in 2 peaces it will come together agen and heel up and be as good as ever.
me and Potter is going to try it.

Aug. 2. big thunder shower last nite. we all got up and lit lamps and set round in our nite
sherts. we lit all the lamps we cood find so we coodent see the litening. father kept telling
funny stories, but mother and Aunt Sarah was scart and told him he hadent aught to joke when
enny minit he mite be struck by litening. father he said he dident beleave the litening wood
strike him enny quicker for not being scart of it then it wood if he gumped and holered o lord
every time it litened. well after a while it only litened way of and we went to bed.

Aug. 3. i havent spoke to Beany yet or to Pewt eether.

Aug. 4. this morning it was Friday. we have fish chowder Fridays. i dont like it and so i drink
milk and father wanted the milkman to go down celler to try some of his vinegar. mother hangs
the wash boiler and the tin pans and iron kittles in the celler way and when ennyone whitch
is tall goes down celler he has to stupe down so not to nock down the pans and kittles. so
father he was down celler and he holered for the milkman to come down and when he went down
he hit his head aginst the boiler and nocked it down and all the kittles and pans tumbled down
on his head and went banging down into the celler and you never heard such a feerful noise.
father was mad as time, but after the milkman was gone we all laffed as if we wood die. mother
and Aunt Sarah had to set down they laffed so. mother said it made more noise then the thunder
did last nite.

