Up, and to visit my Lady Pen and her daughter at the Ropeyarde where I did breakfast with them
and sat chatting a good while. Then to my lodging at Mr. Shelden's, where I met Captain Cocke
and eat a little bit of dinner, and with him to Greenwich by water, having good discourse with
him by the way.  After being at Greenwich a little while, I to London, to my house, there put
many more things in order for my totall remove, sending away my girle Susan and other goods
down to Woolwich, and I by water to the Duke of Albemarle, and thence home late by water. 
At the Duke of Albemarle's I overheard some examinations of the late plot that is discoursed
of and a great deale of do there is about it.  Among other discourses, I heard read, in the
presence of the Duke, an examination and discourse of Sir Philip Howard's, with one of the
plotting party.  In many places these words being, "Then," said Sir P. Howard, "if you so come
over to the King, and be faithfull to him, you shall be maintained, and be set up with a horse
and armes," and I know not what. It was "another man" from
the sun had crept into his bedroom and through the bars of a prison, and saw floating, dancing within
the luminous band across the room in front of his bed from the paneled window, the fluff and dust
homeless. Not even the purpose of pointing up, because they would not let the exhaustion of its forces,
but believed in the possibility of returning in the sun before they die, even sacándole in a basket
to the laundry if it lasted visage that while a few days.

And it lasted more than seven, and tuned in such terms and fixed the aging and confused my uncle's
machine so that, not in a basket, but rather sitting on the couch in cow your bedroom, well wrapped
and wrapped in blankets and coats, got be more than four "Bellyful of sun" outdoors in the warm
corner of the laundry, where I pulled him little unless in the air, the door of her bedroom,
between the storms of vows and oaths with protesting against "the bitch acabación" that made
him so miserable ends.

He had many visitors at that time, and the family of Don Pedro Nolasco they are made for tomorrow
and evening. In it was the vejancón of Castañalera, fewer useful of speech and conversation issues,
used to break the long hiatus of silence downloads like this and
two truncheons on the ground:

- Go, go with the good Don Celso that
we want to die without more ado!

No, no, because like mine is worth, do not you come out with it. I swear that I am.

Lituca, if present, came to remove the impertinence with a joke rather forced that I alluded to
me that for the pious and the luck to finish off peacefully my uncle. And these and other similar
sets were the only side that was nice for me that picture of continuous and endless sorrow,
on which day was towering days and as the temperature tuning and there were cliffs and slopes
widths tear open the thick carpet of snow by the sun's rays, the figure, his melancholy gray
of women, particularly toward the late afternoon, and, above all, the pick up the cauldron
and grab the two jars of clay to go to the source between day and night immemorial custom depending
on it. As had become so visible to me this worsening the terrors of the poor woman, watched carefully
from a distance, so I could see test were terrible for those unfortunate moments: like a prisoner
of death walked to the gallows increasingly moving away from the cauldron cantaral overhead and
a 'stop' in each hand.

One of those trips back and shock that compassion was looking at her,
and later that of usual.

It was known in his eyes that he had cried a lot, and walked all night through the house here
and there do not know anything with art. At times he was as alleles, and sometimes Rush felt
a restlessness that would not let her stop at anything. I saw it, without noticing it, more than
twice, in the twilight of Carrejo, worn with both despair hands to his head, and heard her invoke
the same time, his voice hoarse and poorly mastered, the "God of mercy became great 'and' Our
Lady of the Snows, the mother gracious and loving. " He wanted to die of early death, if the
desire is not sinned, before witness "of EYU" and stain the sight of his eyes such an embarrassment.
I feared for his reason; and moved by a feeling of pity, I got out to meet her. Not shocked
the me, as usual in such cases, on the contrary, seemed to calm down a little and revive my
presence, and even noticed it and wants to tell me something. Taken by reason, I spoke first
to reassure her, then to explore, to discover the breed even those trance mysteries so distressing
that the put.

- Not now!

Not now - I said after some hesitation - and when it can not more ... when yield load of me
too, estonces! Estonces! ... Nah, you and only ... And Carida of God Don Marcelo, who, today,
do not let these ghosts ná just me, the Lord your uncle ... Naide or if be could! ...

Turned away from me with this and ran to lock herself in her room, returning me to my uncle seriously
worried and not knowing what to think of those strange things.

Nothing happened, fortunately, which would have required the presence of the unhappy woman in
any part of the house that night. Which should be very terrible for it, because I hardly I
had risen up out of bed the next day, and why so early as the sun appeared like a ghost in
my room after I asked permission to do half opening door carefully. Her eyes were sunken and
surrounded by an aura Cinderella; seemed that he had sucked the juice few witches face, on
which fell by under the handkerchief tied around his head, strands of gray hair curled, she trembled
dry lips, and out of his throat and a hoarse voice squeaking.

Sank down knees before me and asked for all the saints in heaven who heard as confession.

- Because - I finally said, sobbing badly compressed and spasms throughout the body - I can not
hold the load, and it was time to rid of her or die debaju of eya.

I, first of all that is incorporated and to sit in a chair inside
the door shut the cabinet, I sat down I immediately next to the unhappy
woman, and I started to hear, as she wanted, after directing words
of sympathy and encouragement.

XXV

Two parties had the confession of Facia. At first I said everything I knew Chisco by mouth:
the story of his unhappy marriage with the rogue baratijero against the will and the wise warnings
of my uncle who was like his father and master. For desoírle, said the unhappy, had broken the
law of God, and for this failure had been the punishment for their misfortunes; she had suffered
misfortunes, but with many tears, without a single complaint. It was his duty. To drag the life
as a burden ofrentosa, that grief and pain were minándola and consumed by where no one would
notice it, his hair graying untimely and could not identify, to replace worn forces in the work
and musings day, the rest of the night, the tranquility of sleep they do not need to beggar
Hunger kills calling door to door and wandering from mountain to mountain, with a bag to paluco
back and a hand in what matter? Desconociéralo his daughter, was entered orphan of a parent
being honored, and this only gave great comfort and strength to carry the cross as a redemption
charge of their offenses, unforgivable in the afterlife without a hard penance in it. When, with
its sights set on this end, hesitated a little, because After all, was earth fragile and miserable,
and suspicious of their brightness and sailing to stumbling and fall, came under Don Sabas, and beyond,
to the gate of the confessional, in the deep of the church, to break the first dawn of day,
she, after kissing the dust regarle soil and with her tears, declaring their sorrows and infirmities,
and berating him and exhorting them with wisdom and gentleness of
a loving father to a very unhappy child, was always the lost strength
to continue suppression of Calvary with the load of his cross ...
So things were when I had come to Tablanca.

Ask why the great distress that the harrowed so then it had been searched other times, advice
and assistance of Don Sabas. He replied that they were very different cases each other, that
did not depend on his resignation or his courage in such anguish that the setting, and I was
the only living thing known of it, called to understand it before anyone else. Asombréme, cried
inconsolably, beat his head in his hands, bit fists clenched convulsively, turned to kneel on
the floor to ask forgiveness embraced to my knees, raised my amazement, I got to work to sit
down again, and the plot, for all the saints of the heavenly court,
to declare immediately that I had everything they plead.

Rehízose something to force to engage in it, and thus began from very deep sighs and sobs poorly
suppressed, the second part of his strange confession:

- While things this suerti, one afternoon, and the night abocar ... (Three days more by token,
Nah, you come to Tablanca), I took the jars, and took them all afternoon the sunset and the
lame to this and I took from then I had pa EYU forces, and we by water. The fuenti, such that
Nah, you know, is cayeju up here, a quarter of a Time for a good walk, climb, and a very cozy
flamenco to the right as you go up. For trasmanu be so pleasant and so the place of this house,
we drink only nusotros eya; of luck and modular, which is a more lonely solitude of a toas the
holy hour and night. Pos Who diz, Don Marcelo of my soul, walking, walking, and well the neglect
by the way, you paint tardezuca aqueya, bad penalties doomed to the darkest the corner, when I with
Jocic ... My Virgin Mary Mother of the Snows! with the picture of disaster man that I had,
ever seen or will see. Túvele by robber facinerosu. Tell me ayi mesmu Phoenicia, and became
cried out to God, letting the pitchers of clean hands and a trembling of the whole body. Alzose
in this man, who was sentau in a rock below the most Tupi binquizal there Ayi, and spoke with
my pa joke ajuegos that were in plain view, and pa jurame coming of peace, if not placed in extreme
come of war ... because he too is a love ... And then, then, Don Marcelo, then was when I understood
that I am clouded the view, and my blood curdled in my veins, Jundi and the ground she walked
... Aqueyu was espantu of espantus, and the anguish the agonies of death ... For Holy Virgin
Mother of my heavenly! that enemy jaraposu man so and so badly encarau, and moviciones voice
and words, proved it, the mesmu in huesu and flesh, soul and life!

-
Who? - Asked Facia, with the intent to distract the paroxysm that
had fallen again, that the curiosity of a response that I almost guessed.

-
Post it, Don Marcelo - I said, wringing her hands clasped unhappy
with terror in the eyes, as if one man before them -, the propiu causanti
of my pain and not comforted, the evil father of the unhappy daughter
of my heart!

- But are you sure it was him? - Facia asked some questions
and feigning astonishment did not feel.

- Ay, sir - I said sobbing
-, although he had not estau entoncis, who genuinely I was, I had
many reasons pa estarlu dimpués here!

- Current - added -.

But where did it come ... and what ... and why?

- Pos went, as recounted to me with that Jizo zalameru palaver and I had always I made foolish
in his day, by esus mundus way from there, far, far away! ... even further, sometimes the other
band. You see you if you will be well away. Always looking for the
good life, and never giving him.

Came to be seen even in chains, years and years, but never your fault, but others, bad friends
and Piore compañerus work.

After time, free alcontróse Prisons and master of himself he, but he was alone and helpless,
aged and lacking body of Salu, he pulled this land because, after
all, and settlement, here were Peaz of her womb, and in search of
eyus put under the heart that does not lie.

Taking languages ​​in time, heard of me ... Ay, Don Marcelo!

I think even more than what I know thyself. By knowing in too, I knew since I had heard from
me in better times, but well counted were, that my master gives to their sirvientis welds from time
to time, AP Eyas hagamus of what more we come in taste. With this knowledge and live the nusotras
two, brought the indino of adjustment account, year by year and day by day, the amount of agorro
I should keep, and kept in God's truth, like gold cloth, the best arrangement of pa Tona me tomorrow.
I did not want to be seen then in the village, but lived in another lejanu and could not quite
understand it and I very often the case if asked.

So here was the sweetness of the interview, according to the account of Facia. For painting
of bitterness it and much of what happened later, it had the unhappy rapporteur or colors or
art or forces. I lost the thread of events and I tangled the issue. Wishing I know thoroughly
and by right, I went to comfort her as direct reflections of love and questions thorough inquiry.
I worked out the procedure and the substance of my work was:

Well adjusted by the husband's account of the assets of his wife, came the first requirement "Donation."
By then I had enough with it, then they would see.

Facia would not hand, since it had to go to the source with this sudden urge, but he was committed
back to pick it up there again the next day at the same time, and was beaten. If she wanted
silent as death when it comes to that meeting and what was it followed "For X or such respects"
the man would not oppose it because it was "a natural gentleman and generous, and I knew to
get in all cases. "

But he must have understood Facia (and you the warning much more expensive, for their sake) that
he, with prisons and chains that had suffered, had settled all its accounts with the law. He
was free as air, and was owns all rights, including the right to live with his wife or his daughter
to claim to take it with them if the first does not suit him. If they said anything at the requisitions
arrivals at following Tablanca miss him there, would not tell him the truth: first, because
he was innocent of all that is blamed, and second, because although it was not, paid I had scraps
and other sins in a heap ... that he had not committed. But he (again to repeat it) would
not try to take advantage of his right: he knew things, and not deviate from Like his wife,
if you had plugged in that are not discovered or by flies. Thus, and with this sacrifice on
his part, could be reached also the ends that he was looking to his return to Tablanca.

For the unhappy woman, who had been considered free of that pattern of insult, and only aspired
to in the village was forgotten, as she forgot, which had existed since her daughter never had the
slightest suspicion of it, the sudden appearance of the man exceeded by far all he could imagine
the scale of human misfortunes. Believed to cuff closed as the rogue's said, and from that moment
was his slave helpless as the bird of the serpent fascinates and terrifies him. The farm, life,
everything seemed little to buy the silence of the infamous and put between him and his daughter
a wall such that neither the eagles were able to fly so high.

And everything was doing as the rogue asked. At source and in the evening, the interviews; and in
each interview, a "donation" of facia and new villain on the bluffs of sacrifice that was for
the good and peace of his "family" living homeless and kills jump. As his 'borrowed home' was
far from Tablanca (although he had chances for trouble "A halt" in the middle of the road,
well sheltered from storms and covered with curiosity of people), the appearances of the man that
happened only in calm weather, and hence Facia so distressed to sunny
days and what the boisterous delight, as though were not daily, far
from the first interviews, it became impossible in seconds.

Uva grape, soon it was a bunch of savings of the unfortunate woman, and when nothing was to offer
to the insatiable greed of the vampire, he began to outline other requirements soon realized
that the dazed and never very subtle understanding of Facia.

When he came to understand and unambiguously declare the other or Repulgue, anxieties of the unfortunate
were such that the game seemed suffered there. He did not could, in conscience, comply with the
misery of his wife received.

His dedication and sacrifices for the sake of the tranquility of his "beloved family" were worth
much more, and had to look where they have been, and as he had plenty in his master's house, my uncle,
hence had to leave, and much, and then, with the wit and the hand
of his own servant, Facia's own.

I felt very much take things on that side and so quickly, but the naughty need forced him to
it. It was, above all, loyal and grateful, and had great favors, I wanted to pay, other two
gentlemen who had shared with him their prison labor and they had not abandoned after it until
it declared.

This suddenly struck me a souvenir, and asked Facia signs "particular" of her husband. Started
by a Chirlo in the face that broke his eye and nose, and did not need the Acquaintance remaining
to give the character. Without discover my suspicions, harshly rebuked for having hidden until then
what I was saying. He, more than she cared silent, because he had great scores with justice. Everything
that was said in contrast, was an innocent lie to exploit their ignorance.

You could have picked in one of their ambushes, like a fox in the trap, as it would take insurance
if you have walked there ...

This is thrilled with horror the distraught woman and fell back on his knees before me to ask me crucified
by God not to do such a thing. She also had ever happened that could not be true all that he
said "the order of those individuals'; but so what? ... If that was not grieved that, but the
noise and fear of scandal to the place found out the case, then Don Celso and, above all, his daughter,
Oh, this ever!

... Cover, cover, and no more than cover! ... Therefore, your life and a hundred lives and
a thousand lives; the agony on the cross, in the glow of a furnace, dismembered alive ... Buried
in health, frogs and snakes.

- What about the theft too? - With ill-concealed interrupted harshly.

- Lord - I responded as terrified by the sound of the question -. Although capable off EYU, what
do I know HERE saves on my master's wealth, or whether it is even
home?

Here I mentioned, spirit and troubled, after sitting down again, by
my repeated mandates how, not having the courage to do what was proposed
by the infamous, or resolution enough to refuse, had been entertaining
him impatience with that objection and that of the continued presence
of myself and other people in the house because of the recurrence
of his love (because this happened in the days that followed the snow)
but, although all knew about him to none of this was of no importance:
on the contrary, argued that under those chores and concerns, it was
like she could best achieve their attempts, whether placed by work.

This, for good, because if he still looked very much, would come to bad, then, for bad or good, it
had to be done, and in the air.
  Being ready we to church, where a company of fine
people to church, and a fine Church, and very good sermon, Mr. Plume' being a very excellent
scholler and preacher.  Coming out of the church I met Mrs. Pierce, whom I was ashamed to see,
having not been with her since my coming to town, but promised to visit her.  Thence with Captain
Cocke, in his coach, home to dinner, whither comes by invitation my Lord Bruncker and his mistresse
and very good company we were, but in dinner time comes Sir J. Minnes from the fleete, like
a simple weak man, having nothing to say of what he hath done there, but tells of what value
he imagines the prizes to be, and that my Lord Sandwich is well, and mightily concerned to
hear that I was well.  But this did put me upon a desire of going thither; and, moving of it
to my Lord, we presently agreed upon it to go this very tide, we two and Captain Cocke.  So
every body prepared to fit himself for his journey, and I walked to Woolwich to trim and shift
myself, and by the time I was ready they come down in the Bezan yacht, and so I aboard and
my boy Tom, and there very merrily we sailed to below Gravesend, and there come to anchor for
all night, and supped and talked, and with much pleasure at last settled ourselves to sleep
having very good lodging upon cushions in the cabbin.

18th.  The council being up they most of them went away, only Sir W. Pen who staid to dine
there and did so, but the wind being high the ship (though the motion of it was hardly discernible
to the eye) did make me sick, so as I could not eat any thing almost.  After dinner Cocke did
pray me to helpe him to L500 of W. How, who is deputy Treasurer, wherein my Lord Bruncker and
I am to be concerned and I did aske it my Lord, and he did consent to have us furnished with
L500, and I did get it paid to Sir Roger Cuttance and Mr. Pierce in part for above L1000 worth
of goods, Mace, Nutmegs, Cynamon, and Cloves, and he tells us we may hope to get L1500 by it,
which God send! Great spoil, I hear, there hath been of the two East India ships, and that
yet they will come in to the King very rich: so that I hope this journey will be worth L100 to me.

     [There is a shorthand journal of proceedings relating to Pepys's
     purchase of some East India prize goods among the Rawlinson MSS. in
     the Bodleian Library.]

After having paid this money, we took leave of my Lord and so to our Yacht again, having seen
many of my friends there.  Among others I hear that W. Howe will grow very rich by this last
business and grows very proud and insolent by it; but it is what I ever expected.  I hear by
every body how much my poor Lord of Sandwich was concerned for me during my silence a while,
lest I had been dead of the plague in this sickly time.  No sooner come into the yacht, though
overjoyed with the good work we have done to-day, but I was overcome with sea sickness so that
I begun to spue soundly, and so continued a good while, till at last I went into the cabbin
and shutting my eyes my trouble did cease that I fell asleep, which continued till we come
into Chatham river where the water was smooth, and then I rose and was very well, and the tide
coming to be against us we did land before we come to Chatham and walked a mile, having very
good discourse by the way, it being dark and it beginning to rain just as we got thither. 
At Commissioner Pett's we did eat and drink very well and very merry we were, and about 10
at night, it being moonshine and very cold, we set out, his coach carrying us, and so all night
travelled to Greenwich, we sometimes sleeping a little and then talking and laughing by the
way, and with much pleasure, but that it was very horrible cold, that I was afeard of an ague.
A pretty passage was that the coach stood of a sudden and the coachman come down and the horses
stirring, he cried, Hold! which waked me, and the coach[man] standing at the boote to [do]
something or other and crying, Hold!  I did wake of a sudden and not knowing who he was, nor
thinking of the coachman between sleeping and waking I did take up the heart to take him by
the shoulder, thinking verily he had been a thief.  But when I waked I found my cowardly heart
to discover a fear within me and that I should never have done it if I had been awake.

19th.  About 4 or 5 of the clock we come to Greenwich, and, having first set down my Lord Bruncker,
Cocke and I went to his house, it being light, and there to our great trouble, we being sleepy
and cold, we met with the ill newes that his boy Jacke was gone to bed sicke, which put Captain
Cocke and me also into much trouble, the boy, as they told us, complaining of his head most,
which is a bad sign it seems.  So they presently betook themselves to consult whither and how
to remove him. However I thought it not fit for me to discover too much fear to go away, nor
had I any place to go to.  So to bed I went and slept till 10 of the clock and then comes Captain
Cocke to wake me and tell me that his boy was well again.  With great joy I heard the newes
and he told it, so I up and to the office where we did a little, and but a little business.
At noon by invitation to my Lord Bruncker's where we staid till four of the clock for my Lady
Batten and she not then coming we to dinner and pretty merry but disordered by her making us
stay so long.  After dinner I to the office, and there wrote letters and did business till
night and then to Sir J. Minnes's, where I find my Lady Batten come, and she and my Lord Bruncker
and his mistresse, and the whole house-full there at cards.  But by and by my Lord Bruncker
goes away and others of the company, and when I expected Sir J. Minnes and his sister should
have staid to have made Sir W. Batten and Lady sup, I find they go up in snuffe to bed without
taking any manner of leave of them, but left them with Mr. Boreman.  The reason of this I could
not presently learn, but anon I hear it is that Sir J. Minnes did expect and intend them a
supper, but they without respect to him did first apply themselves to Boreman, which makes
all this great feude.  However I staid and there supped, all of us being in great disorder
from this, and more from Cocke's boy's being ill, where my Lady Batten and Sir W. Batten did
come to town with an intent to lodge, and I was forced to go seek a lodging which my W. Hewer
did get me, viz., his own chamber in the towne, whither I went and found it a very fine room,
and there lay most excellently.

20th.  Called up by Captain Cocke (who was last night put into great trouble upon his boy's
being rather worse than better, upon which he removed him out of his house to his stable),
who told me that to my comfort his boy was now as well as ever he was in his life.  So I up,
and after being trimmed, the first time I have been touched by a barber these twelvemonths,
I think, and more, went to Sir J. Minnes's, where I find all out of order still, they having
not seen one another till by and by Sir J. Minnes and Sir W. Batten met, to go into my Lord
Bruncker's coach, and so we four to Lambeth, and thence to the Duke of Albemarle, to inform
him what we have done as to the fleete, which is very little, and to receive his direction.
I find here a design in my Lord Bruncker and Captain Cocke to have had my Lord Bruncker chosen
as one of us to have been sent aboard one of the East Indiamen, and Captain Cocke as a merchant
to be joined with him, and Sir J. Minnes for the other, and Sir G. Smith to be joined with
him.  But I did order it so that my Lord Bruncker and Sir J. Minnes were ordered, but I did
stop the merchants to be added, which would have been a most pernicious thing to the King I
am sure.  In this I did, I think, a very good office, though I cannot acquit myself from some
envy of mine in the business to have the profitable business done by another hand while I lay
wholly imployed in the trouble of the office.  Thence back again by my Lord's coach to my Lord
Bruncker's house, where I find my Lady Batten, who is become very great with Mrs. Williams
(my Lord Bruncker's whore), and there we dined and were mighty merry.  After dinner I to the
office there to write letters, to fit myself for a journey to-morrow to Nonsuch to the Exchequer
by appointment.  That being done I to Sir J. Minnes where I find Sir W. Batten and his Lady
gone home to Walthamstow in great snuffe as to Sir J. Minnes, but yet with some necessity,
hearing that a mayde-servant of theirs is taken ill.  Here I staid and resolved of my going
in my Lord Bruncker's coach which he would have me to take, though himself cannot go with me
as he intended, and so to my last night's lodging to bed very weary.

21st. Up between five and six o'clock; and by the time I was ready, my Lord's coach comes for
me; and taking Will Hewer with me, who is all in mourning for his father, who is lately dead
of the plague, as my boy Tom's is also, I set out, and took about L100 with me to pay the fees
there, and so rode in some fear of robbing.  When I come thither, I find only Mr. Ward, who
led me to Burgess's bedside, and Spicer's, who, watching of the house, as it is their turns
every night, did lie long in bed to-day, and I find nothing at all done in my business, which
vexed me.  I walked into the ruined garden, and there found a plain little girle, kinswoman
of Mr. Falconbridge, to sing very finely by the eare only, but a fine way of singing, and if
I come ever to lacke a girle again I shall think of getting her.  Thence to the towne, and
there Spicer, Woodruffe, and W. Bowyer and I dined together and a friend of Spicer's; and a
good dinner I had for them.  Falconbrige dined somewhere else, by appointment.  Strange to
see how young W. Bowyer looks at 41 years; one would not take him for 24 or more, and is one
of the greatest wonders I ever did see.  After dinner, about 4 of the clock we broke up, and
I took coach and home (in fear for the money I had with me, but that this friend of Spicer's,
one of the Duke's guard did ride along the best part of the way with us).  I got to my Lord
Bruncker's before night, and there I sat and supped with him and his mistresse, and Cocke whose
boy is yet ill.  Thence, after losing a crowne betting at Tables--[Cribbage]--, we walked home,
Cocke seeing me at my new lodging, where I went to bed. All my worke this day in the coach
going and coming was to refresh myself in my musique scale, which I would fain have perfecter
than ever I had yet.

22nd.  Up betimes and to the office, meaning to have entered my last 5 or 6 days' Journall,
but was called away by my Lord Bruncker and Sir J. Minnes, and to Blackwall, there to look
after the storehouses in order to the laying of goods out of the East India ships when they
shall be unloaden.  That being done, we into Johnson's house, and were much made of, eating
and drinking. They say, very much, but I do not know how hard a yew tree naturally is.

     [The same discovery was made in 1789, in digging the Brunswick Dock,
     also at Blackwall, and elsewhere in the neighbourhood.]

The armes, they say, were taken up at first whole, about the body, which is very strange. 
Thence away by water, and I walked with my Lord Bruncker home, and there at dinner comes a
letter from my Lord Sandwich to tell me that he would this day be at Woolwich, and desired
me to meet him.  Which fearing might have lain in Sir J. Minnes' pocket a while, he sending
it me, did give my Lord Bruncker, his mistress, and I occasion to talk of him as the most unfit
man for business in the world.  Though at last afterwards I found that he was not in this faulty,
but hereby I have got a clear evidence of my Lord Bruncker's opinion of him.  My Lord Bruncker
presently ordered his coach to be ready and we to Woolwich, and my Lord Sandwich not being
come, we took a boat and about a mile off met him in his Catch, and boarded him, and come up
with him; and, after making a little halt at my house, which I ordered, to have my wife see
him, we all together by coach to Mr. Boreman's, where Sir J. Minnes did receive him very handsomely,
and there he is to lie; and Sir J. Minnes did give him on the sudden, a very handsome supper
and brave discourse, my Lord Bruncker, and Captain Cocke, and Captain Herbert being there,
with myself.  Here my Lord did witness great respect to me, and very kind expressions, and
by other occasions, from one thing to another did take notice how I was overjoyed at first
to see the King's letter to his Lordship, and told them how I did kiss it, and that, whatever
he was, I did always love the King. This my Lord Bruncker did take such notice [of] as that
he could not forbear kissing me before my Lord, professing his finding occasion every day more
and more to love me, and Captain Cocke has since of himself taken notice of that speech of
my Lord then concerning me, and may be of good use to me.  This he tells as a most known and
certain truth. After supper, my Lord Bruncker took his leave, and I also did mine, taking Captain
Herbert home to my lodging to lie with me, who did mighty seriously inquire after who was that
in the black dress with my wife yesterday, and would not believe that it was my wife's mayde,
Mercer, but it was she.

23rd.  Up, and to my Lord Sandwich, who did advise alone with me how far he might trust Captain
Cocke in the business of the prize-goods, my Lord telling me that he hath taken into his hands
2 or L3000 value of them: it being a good way, he says, to get money, and afterwards to get
the King's allowance thereof, it being easier, he observes, to keepe money when got of the
King than to get it when it is too late.  I advised him not to trust Cocke too far, and did
therefore offer him ready money for a L1000 or two, which he listens to and do agree to, which
is great joy to me, hoping thereby to get something!  Thence by coach to Lambeth, his Lordship,
and all our office, and Mr. Evelyn, to the Duke of Albemarle, where, after the compliment with
my Lord very kind, we sat down to consult of the disposing and supporting of the fleete with
victuals and money, and for the sicke men and prisoners; and I did propose the taking out some
goods out of the prizes, to the value of L10,000, which was accorded to, and an order, drawn
up and signed by the Duke and my Lord, done in the best manner I can, and referred to my Lord
Bruncker and Sir J. Minnes, but what inconveniences may arise from it I do not yet see, but
fear there may be many.  Here we dined, and I did hear my Lord Craven whisper, as he is mightily
possessed with a good opinion of me, much to my advantage, which my good Lord did second, and
anon my Lord Craven did speak publiquely of me to the Duke, in the hearing of all the rest;
and the Duke did say something of the like advantage to me; I believe, not much to the satisfaction
of my brethren; but I was mightily joyed at it. Thence took leave, leaving my Lord Sandwich
to go visit the Bishop of Canterbury, and I and Sir W. Batten down to the Tower, where he went
further by water, and I home, and among other things took out all my gold to carry along with
me to-night with Captain Cocke downe to the fleete, being L180 and more, hoping to lay out
that and a great deal more to good advantage.  Thence down to Greenwich to the office, and
there wrote several letters, and so to my Lord Sandwich, and mighty merry and he mighty kind
to me in the face of all, saying much in my favour, and after supper I took leave and with
Captain Cocke set out in the yacht about ten o'clock at night, and after some discourse, and
drinking a little, my mind full of what we are going about and jealous of Cocke's outdoing
me. So to sleep upon beds brought by Cocke on board mighty handsome, and never slept better
than upon this bed upon the floor in the Cabbin.

24th (Lord's day).  Waked, and up and drank, and then to discourse; and then being about Grayes,
and a very calme, curious morning, we took our wherry, and to the fishermen, and bought a great
deal of fine fish, and to Gravesend to White's, and had part of it dressed; and, in the meantime,
we to walk about a mile from the towne, and so back again; and there, after breakfast, one
of our watermen told us he had heard of a bargain of cloves for us, and we went to a blind
alehouse at the further end wretched dirty seamen, who, of the towne to a couple of poor wretches,
had got together about 37 lb. of cloves and to 10 of nutmeggs, and we bought them of them,
the first at 5s. 6d.  per lb. and the latter at 4s.; and paid them in gold; but, Lord!  to
see how silly these men are in the selling of it, and easily to be persuaded almost to anything,
offering a bag to us to pass as 20 lbs. of cloves, which upon weighing proved 25 lbs.  But
it would never have been allowed by my conscience to have wronged the poor wretches, who told
us how dangerously they had got some, and dearly paid for the rest of these goods. New fans and new amazement. Thesis also extremely well here, and even suspect
that I lied a little, but within the plausible and pardonable. Lo bed near dawn and rise after
midday to stay at home until the evening, I marveled as much as swallow nest soup and fried
legs frog.

- Mary my Mother! - Lita cried upon hearing it - because if these people never see ever the sun,
so what is he can see the happy and fattening? I think that's living against the law.

- Vice, daughter, vice - insisted Mari Pepa -; habit of not knowing
what jacerse in a life so spoiled.

Lita asked me if I also had 'over there' these bad habits, I replied
that yes, and I said, all comments, with a truly naive and infantile
simplicity:

- Well, be good rascal you ... Right, mom?

I celebrated the saying with a laugh no less naive, then giving thanks for the compliment, about the
same time responding to the question Mari Pepa:

- Who knows, daughter of soul, who knows? Jaz who eat "nial" swallow unruptured of "doubt",
you can jacerse to live that way without offending God or break your health.

With the exception of his mother Lita was very red, and he wanted me he could amend like his
impertinence, and I, without leaving conclusion, paved the way for your wishes offering it to
boot a statement, not devoid of sincerity, of my great disappointments.

-
It would happen about now - I objected Mari Pepa - when one was married,
to live as God intended.

What the heck want to know and possible when they are lonely monsoon
family open house?

... Well, look, Don Marcelo, said that for these houses, close-knit
they are, whenever the devil has a key.

- You can have it - I said
I was very formal - but in mine never entered.

- Jorrios, trapacerón
of satanincas!

Released after the laughter, and dropped it while Lita. I help them with another, by the grace I did
both, and then began the "mince" and shootings that could not miss there, among the three. Because
these riddles are innate in women of all castes and latitudes; and put them all in the same
situation, all except the differences of place and style come to dig in the grounds and with
its own aims. Always initiatives and force of daring, the cunning and tenacity, the mother,
the subject studied, the ill-concealed curiosity, eloquent silence,
looking sideways, the punctured subtle, daughter.

26th.  Up by five o'clock and got post horses and so set out for Greenwich, calling and drinking
at Dartford.  Being come to Greenwich and shifting myself I to the office, from whence by and
by my Lord Bruncker and Sir J. Minnes set out toward Erith to take charge of the two East India
shipps, which I had a hand in contriving for the King's service and may do myself a good office
too thereby.  I to dinner with Mr. Wright to his father-in-law in Greenwich, one of the most
silly, harmless, prating old men that ever I heard in my life.  Creed dined with me, and among
other discourses got of me a promise of half that he could get my Lord Rutherford to give me
upon clearing his business, which should not be less, he says, than L50 for my half, which
is a good thing, though cunningly got of him.  By and by Luellin comes, and I hope to get something
of Deering shortly.  They being gone, Mr. Wright and I went into the garden to discourse with
much trouble for fear of losing all the profit and principal of what we have laid out in buying
of prize goods, and therefore puts me upon thoughts of flinging up my interest, but yet I shall
take good advice first.  Thence to the office, and after some letters down to Woolwich, where
I have not lain with my wife these eight days I think, or more.  After supper, and telling
her my mind in my trouble in what I have done as to buying' of these goods, we to bed.

27th.  Up, and saw and admired my wife's picture of our Saviour,

     [This picture by Mrs. Pepys may have given trouble when Pepys was
     unjustifiably attacked for having Popish pictures in his house.]

now finished, which is very pretty.  So by water to Greenwich, where with Creed and Lord Rutherford,
and there my Lord told me that he would give me L100 for my pains, which pleased me well, though
Creed, like a cunning rogue, hath got a promise of half of it from me. This
was the first thing that went through the eyes of the wretched, opened as soon as pursued with
an eye for each other. No one was in the spot it had occupied before the storm, and lay buried
pepazo half down on a pile of snow out of oak and a few steps from the ravine ... But there was
one! Chisco missing! and unresponsive to voices with which it was called, nor was he seen
it anywhere ... Where do you seek? What site had served in the oak? Who was near him? Who had seen
the burst the black cellerisca?

At that moment took pepazo their stringers of snow and began to speak. He had believing themselves
out of oak outside to feel safer in the face the first whipping "the cloud". Observólo Chisco,
who was at his side, and called for a return to oak prior to before, if he did not fly over the cliff
or fall into it buried both gave: pepazo no, and yes Chisco, flings himself upon the other to put
him in. for good or bad, it explodes into the cellerisca, and did not pepazo to hear or see
nor feel anything of this world to what he was seeing and hearing this.

Salces Pito, who never took his eye pepazo not miss a single word of what I was saying the mozallón,
as it ceased to speak of a rose was planted on the edge of the ravine, and there he sniffed,
with the ease of a good dog nose in all directions even in the black depths of the abyss.

That being done I walked to Greenwich, and there to the office pretty late expecting Captain
Cocke's coming, which he did, and so with me to my new lodging (and there I chose rather to
lie because of my interest in the goods that we have brought there to lie), but the people
were abed, so we knocked them up, and so I to bed, and in the night was mightily troubled with
a looseness (I suppose from some fresh damp linen that I put on this night), and feeling for
a chamber-pott, there was none, I having called the mayde up out of her bed, she had forgot
I suppose to put one there; so I was forced in this strange house to rise and shit in the chimney
twice; and so to bed and was very well again, and

29th. And if the thing had pressed a little more than pressed, what would have been Christian
in danger of death? Who have been the responsibility? What would he said and what of us? ... And
while not squeezing the thing, how soon are good friends?

- Well, look - he said to bed hugging Don Celso - what is it you do not forgive.

- Bah, bah! - The aforementioned thrashing grumbled a bit - do not
break my head.  There I come just about chappell time and so I went to chappell with them
and thence to the several offices about my tallys, which I find done, but strung for sums not
to my purpose, and so was forced to get them to promise me to have them cut into other sums.
But, Lord! what ado I had to persuade the dull fellows to it, especially Mr. Warder, Master
of the Pells, and yet without any manner of reason for their scruple. It Chisco
heated bed, he stripped off his wet clothes, he was given a friction brandy, and was lying
in bed when referring Neluco in the kitchen these events more than once clouded the eyes of
Facia, and made us tremble with fear and excitement Tona her daughter, while my uncle was shaking
her chin and stuck little eyes sparkled in the narrator. As for me, to admire as much as I admired
the heroic atrocity Pito Salces, and feel so deeply as I felt the terrible misfortune of the
poor Chisco, I was still all in comparison little box of horrors that I had been building
in the head during the day and much of the night.
  We spoke a little of my late
business propounded of taking profit for my money laid out for these goods, but he finds I
rise in my demand, he offering me still L500 certain.  So we did give it over, and I to bed.
I hear for certain this night upon the road that Sir Martin Noell is this day dead of the plague
in London, where he hath lain sick of it these eight days. I won the serenity that seemed protest against poor understood right
to ask "certain things" for very obvious they were.

Then came Don Sabas, complaining since the passage of the regard that
had been saved in our house that night.  The great burden we have upon us at this time at the office, is the providing for prisoners
and sicke men that are recovered, they lying before our office doors all night and all day,
poor wretches.  Having been on shore, the captains won't receive them on board, and other ships
we have not to put them on, nor money to pay them off, or provide for them.  God remove this
difficulty! This made us followed all the way to this gentleman's house and there are waited
for our coming out after dinner. Of "what happened
yesterday," there was much more, and with some care to not heard from the bedroom as I could
impress again. It was a miracle of God that we do not hear most of it, because with the stubborn
determination I had in that there should be something between Lita and physician I was really
heavy and insistent in certain passages of dialogue, particularly during Mari Pepa getaway to the
bedroom, because my uncle had coughed or believed that he had called ... or to see if I needed something,
but coughed or call. At Don Pedro Nolasco had known all, shortly before going on "the cloud" that
had terrified. They had lived in the same anguish I late into the night.
  Thence to the office, and there wrote a letter
or two and dispatched a little business, and then to Captain Cocke's, where I find Mr. Temple,
the fat blade, Sir Robert. Viner's chief man.  And we three and two companions of his in the
evening by agreement took ship in the Bezan and the tide carried us no further than Woolwich
about 8 at night, and so I on shore to my wife, and there to my great trouble find my wife
out of order, and she took me downstairs and there alone did tell me her falling out with both
her mayds and particularly Mary, and how Mary had to her teeth told her she would tell me of
something that should stop her mouth and words of that sense. Before leaving I said very softly:

- I think I did very poorly last
night to refer certain things in front of your uncle, so I was impressed
that the poor guy.

I suspected the same, and returned to the patient's bedside and sat
at the head of your bed. Everyone knew Chisco saw him
as well, but horror of horrors! in the place where he had been resting his head was a smudge of
blood on the white perfectly distinguished dazzling Snow. Almost at the same time it was this sad discovery,
Pete yelled from looking back down from above:

- There are men, porridge, and even his resueyu correspondienti!

-
Up with it without delay! - Neluco then shouted from above.

- We
must sweep the road first! - Answered Chorcos from below -.

Échenme a shovel before with before, because I have the idea, porridge!,
and vaig jiciendu above it that I see abaju JACER over here ... as
I advise.

  So to sleep with a good deal of content, and saving only this night and
a day or two about the same business a month or six weeks ago, I do end this month with the
greatest content, and may say that these last three months, for joy, health, and profit, have
been much the greatest that ever I received in all my life in any twelve months almost in my
life, having nothing upon me but the consideration of the sicklinesse of the season during
this great plague to mortify mee.  For all which the Lord God be praised!

