But as they yelled at him and hallooed, making their preparations for his death, his presence
of mind deserted the poor wretch.  He had stolen an old pistol on one of his marauding expeditions,
of which one barrel had been loaded.  That in his mad despair he had fired; and now, as he
lay near the mouth of the cavern, under the cover of the projecting stone, he had no weapon
with him but his hands.  He had had a knife, but that had dropped from him during the struggle
on the floor of the cottage.  He had now nothing but his hands, and was considering how he
might best use them in ridding himself of the first of his pursuers.  The man was near him,
armed, with all the power and majesty of right on his side; whereas on his side, Aaron Trow
had nothing,--not a hope.  He raised his head that he might look forth, and a dozen voices
shouted as his face appeared above the aperture.  A dozen weapons were levelled at him, and
he could see the gleaming of the muzzles of the guns.  And then the foot of his pursuer was
already on the corner stone at the cavern's mouth.  "Now, Caleb, on him at once!" shouted a
voice.  Ah me! it was a moment in which to pity even such a man as Aaron Trow.

"Now, Caleb, at him at once!" shouted the voice.  No, by heavens; not so, even yet!  The sound
of triumph in those words raised the last burst of energy in the breast of that wretched man;
and he sprang forth, head foremost, from his prison house.  Forth he came, manifest enough
before the eyes of them all, and with head well down, and hands outstretched, but with his
wide glaring eyes still turned towards his pursuers as he fell, he plunged down into the waves
beneath him.  Two of those who stood by, almost unconscious of what they did, fired at his
body as it made its rapid way to the water; but, as they afterwards found, neither of the bullets
struck him.  Morton, when his prey thus leaped forth, escaping him for awhile, was already
on the verge of the cavern,--had even then prepared his foot for that onward spring which should
bring him to the throat of his foe.  But he arrested himself, and for a moment stood there
watching the body as it struck the water, and hid itself at once beneath the ripple.  He stood
there for a moment watching the deed and its effect, and then leaving his hold upon the rock,
he once again followed his quarry.  Down he went, head foremost, right on to the track in the
waves which the other had made; and when the two rose to the surface together, each was struggling
in the grasp of the other.

It was a foolish, nay, a mad deed to do.  The poor wretch who had first fallen could not have
escaped.  He could not even swim, and had therefore flung himself to certain destruction when
he took that leap from out of the cavern's mouth.  It would have been sad to see him perish
beneath the waves,--to watch him as he rose, gasping for breath, and then to see to him sinking
again, to rise again, and then to go for ever.  But his life had been fairly forfeit,--and
why should one so much more precious have been flung after it?  It was surely with no view
of saving that pitiful life that Caleb Morton had leaped after his enemy.  But the hound, hot
with the chase, will follow the stag over the precipice and dash himself to pieces against
the rocks.  The beast thirsting for blood will rush in even among the weapons of men.  Morton
in his fury had felt but one desire, burned with but one passion.  If the Fates would but grant
him to fix his clutches in the throat of the man who had ill-used his love; for the rest it
might all go as it would.

