Bagshot was rather proud of his new quarters until my uncle called upon him.  Up to then he
felt assured he was doing right; had, indeed, not the faintest doubt in the matter until my
uncle unsettled him.  "Nice carpet, Bagshot," said my uncle, "nice and soft.  This chair certainly
very comfortable.  But what the mischief do you mean--you, with your pretence to culture--by
hanging your dwelling with all those framed and glazed photograph and autograph dittoes?  I
should have thought you at least would have known better.  Love and Life, and Love and Death,
the Daphnephoria, Rembrandt's portrait--Wild Havoc, man!  What were you thinking of?"

Bagshot seemed staggered.  He ventured to intimate feebly his persuasion that the things were
rather good.

"Good they certainly are, and well reproduced, but only the Bible and Shakspeare could stand
this incessant reiteration, and not all Shakspeare.  These things are in shop windows, man--drawing-rooms,
offices, everywhere.  They afflict me like popular songs--like popular quotations.  They are
good enough--as a matter of fact they are too good.  Only, don't you know Willis has Love and
Life and Love and Death?  And so has Smith, and Bays has Rembrandt's portrait in his office,
and my niece Euphemia has the Daphnephoria in her drawing-room. I can't understand, George,
why you let it stay there.  It is possible to have too much of a good thing.  There is no getting
away from these all too popular triumphs.  They cover up the walls everywhere.  They consume
all other art.  I shall write a schedule some day of the Fifty Correct Pictures of the British
People.  And to find you, Bagshot, among the Philistines!"

"I thought they showed rather an improvement in the general taste," said Bagshot.  "There is
no reason why a thing should not be common, and yet very beautiful.  Primroses, for instance----"

"That is true enough, but pictures are not primroses," said my uncle. "Besides, I think we
like primroses all the better because they must soon be over; but these are perennial blossoms,
like the everlasting flowers and dried grass of a lodging house.  They may still be beautiful,
but by this time, Bagshot, they are awfully dry and dusty. Who looks at them?  I notice our
eyes avoid them even while we talk about them.  We have all noticed everything there is to
be noticed, and said all the possible things that are to be said about them long ago. Surely
a picture must be a little fresh to please.  Else we shall come at last to the perfect picture,
and art will have an end.  Don't you see the mere popularity of these things of the pavement
is enough to condemn them in the estimation of every right-minded person?"

"I don't see it," said Bagshot, making head against the torrent.  "I cannot afford to go to
these swells and get original work of theirs----"

"What do you want with 'these swells' and their original work?" interrupted my uncle fiercely.
"Haven't they used up all their originality ages ago?  Is it not open to such men as yourself
to discover new men?  There are men pining in garrets now for you, Bagshot.  Fancy the delight
of having pictures that are unfamiliar, pictures that catch the eye and are actually to be
looked at, pictures that suggest new remarks, pictures by a name that the stray visitor has
never heard of and which therefore puzzle him dreadfully because he hasn't the faintest idea
whether to praise or blame them!  Isn't it worth hunting studios for, and even, maybe, going
to the Academy? Besides, suppose your struggling artist comes to the front.  What price the
five-guinea specimen of his early style then?  Your artistic virtue is indeed its own reward,
and, besides, you can boast about finding him.