"I am heartily glad, for you were very useful. I remember how Cantrip almost cried when he
told me you were going to leave him. He had been rather put upon, I fancy, before."

"There was perhaps something in that, your Grace."

"There will be nothing to return to now beyond barren honours."

"Not for a while."

"Not for a long while," said the Duke;--"for a long while, that is, as candidates for office
regard time. Mr. Daubeny will be safe for this Session at least. I doubt whether he will really
attempt to carry his measure this year. He will bring it forward, and after the late division
he must get his second reading. He will then break down gracefully in Committee, and declare
that the importance of the interests concerned demands further inquiry. It wasn't a thing to
be done in one year."

"Why should he do it at all?" asked Phineas.

"That's what everybody asks, but the answer seems to be so plain! Because he can do it, and
we can't. He will get from our side much support, and we should get none from his."

"There is something to me sickening in their dishonesty," said Phineas energetically.

"The country has the advantage; and I don't know that they are dishonest. Ought we to come
to a deadlock in legislation in order that parties might fight out their battle till one had
killed the other?"

"I don't think a man should support a measure which he believes to be destructive."

"He doesn't believe it to be destructive. The belief is theoretic,--or not even quite that.
It is hardly more than romantic. As long as acres are dear, and he can retain those belonging
to him, the country gentleman will never really believe his country to be in danger. It is
the same with commerce. As long as the Three per Cents. do not really mean Four per Cent.,--I
may say as long as they don't mean Five per Cent.,--the country will be rich, though every
one should swear that it be ruined."

"I'm very glad, at the same time, that I don't call myself a Conservative," said Phineas.

"That shows how disinterested you are, as you certainly would be in office. Good-bye. Come
and see the Duchess when she comes to town. And if you've nothing better to do, give us a day
or two at Longroyston at Easter." Now Longroyston was the Duke's well-known country seat, at
which Whig hospitality had been dispensed with a lavish hand for two centuries.

On the 20th January Phineas travelled down to Tankerville again in obedience to a summons served
upon him at the instance of the judge who was to try his petition against Browborough. It was
the special and somewhat unusual nature of this petition that the complainants not only sought
to oust the sitting member, but also to give the seat to the late unsuccessful candidate. There
was to be a scrutiny, by which, if it should be successful, so great a number of votes would
be deducted from those polled on behalf of the unfortunate Mr. Browborough as to leave a majority
for his opponent, with the additional disagreeable obligation upon him of paying the cost of
the transaction by which he would thus lose his seat. Mr. Browborough, no doubt, looked upon
the whole thing with the greatest disgust. He thought that a battle when once won should be
regarded as over till the occasion should come for another battle. He had spent his money like
a gentleman, and hated these mean ways. No one could ever say that he had ever petitioned.
That was his way of looking at it. That Shibboleth of his as to the prospects of England and
the Church of her people had, no doubt, made the House less agreeable to him during the last
Short session than usual; but he had stuck to his party, and voted with Mr. Daubeny on the
Address,--the obligation for such vote having inconveniently pressed itself upon him before
the presentation of the petition had been formally completed. He had always stuck to his party.
It was the pride of his life that he had been true and consistent. He also was summoned to
Tankerville, and he was forced to go, although he knew that the Shibboleth would be thrown
in his teeth.

Mr. Browborough spent two or three very uncomfortable days at Tankerville, whereas Phineas
was triumphant. There were worse things in store for poor Mr. Browborough than his repudiated
Shibboleth, or even than his lost seat. Mr. Ruddles, acting with wondrous energy, succeeded
in knocking off the necessary votes, and succeeded also in proving that these votes were void
by reason of gross bribery. He astonished Phineas by the cool effrontery with which he took
credit to himself for not having purchased votes in the Fallgate on the Liberal side, but Phineas
was too wise to remind him that he himself had hinted at one time that it would be well to
lay out a little money in that way. No one at the present moment was more clear than was Ruddles
as to the necessity of purity at elections. Not a penny had been misspent by the Finnites.
A vote or two from their score was knocked off on grounds which did not touch the candidate
or his agents. One man had personated a vote, but this appeared to have been done at the instigation
of some very cunning Browborough partisan. Another man had been wrongly described. This, however,
amounted to nothing. Phineas Finn was seated for the borough, and the judge declared his purpose
of recommending the House of Commons to issue a commission with reference to the expediency
of instituting a prosecution. Mr. Browborough left the town in great disgust, not without various
publicly expressed intimations from his opponents that the prosperity of England depended on
the Church of her people. Phineas was gloriously entertained by the Liberals of the borough,
and then informed that as so much had been done for him it was hoped that he would now open
his pockets on behalf of the charities of the town. "Gentlemen," said Phineas, to one or two
of the leading Liberals, "it is as well that you should know at once that I am a very poor
man." The leading Liberals made wry faces, but Phineas was member for the borough.

The moment that the decision was announced, Phineas, shaking off for the time his congratulatory
friends, hurried to the post-office and sent his message to Lady Laura Standish at Dresden:
"I have got the seat." He was almost ashamed of himself as the telegraph boy looked up at him
when he gave in the words, but this was a task which he could not have entrusted to any one
else. He almost thought that this was in truth the proudest and happiest moment of his life.
She would so thoroughly enjoy his triumph, would receive from it such great and unselfish joy,
that he almost wished that he could have taken the message himself. Surely had he done so there
would have been fit occasion for another embrace.

He was again a member of the British House of Commons,--was again in possession of that privilege
for which he had never ceased to sigh since the moment in which he lost it. A drunkard or a
gambler may be weaned from his ways, but not a politician. To have been in the House and not
to be there was, to such a one as Phineas Finn, necessarily, a state of discontent. But now
he had worked his way up again, and he was determined that no fears for the future should harass
him. He would give his heart and soul to the work while his money lasted. It would surely last
him for the Session. He was all alone in the world, and would trust to the chapter of accidents
for the future.

"I never knew a fellow with such luck as yours," said Barrington Erle to him, on his return
to London. "A seat always drops into your mouth when the circumstances seem to be most forlorn."

"I have been lucky, certainly."

"My cousin, Laura Kennedy, has been writing to me about you."

"I went over to see them, you know."

"So I heard. She talks some nonsense about the Earl being willing to do anything for you. What
could the Earl do? He has no more influence in the Loughton borough than I have. All that kind
of thing is clean done for,--with one or two exceptions. We got much better men while it lasted
than we do now."

"I should doubt that."

"We did;--much truer men,--men who went straighter. By the bye, Phineas, we must have no tricks
on this Church matter. We mean to do all we can to throw out the second reading."

"You know what I said at the hustings."

"D---- the hustings. I know what Browborough said, and Browborough voted like a man with his
party. You were against the Church at the hustings, and he was for it. You will vote just the
other way. There will be a little confusion, but the people of Tankerville will never remember
the particulars."

"I don't know that I can do that."

"By heavens, if you don't, you shall never more be officer of ours,--though Laura Kennedy should
cry her eyes out."

CHAPTER XIV

Trumpeton Wood

In the meantime the hunting season was going on in the Brake country with chequered success.
There had arisen the great Trumpeton Wood question, about which the sporting world was doomed
to hear so much for the next twelve months,--and Lord Chiltern was in an unhappy state of mind.
Trumpeton Wood belonged to that old friend of ours, the Duke of Omnium, who had now almost
fallen into second childhood. It was quite out of the question that the Duke should himself
interfere in such a matter, or know anything about it; but Lord Chiltern, with headstrong resolution,
had persisted in writing to the Duke himself. Foxes had always hitherto been preserved in Trumpeton
Wood, and the earths had always been stopped on receipt of due notice by the keepers. During
the cubbing season there had arisen quarrels. The keepers complained that no effort was made
to kill the foxes. Lord Chiltern swore that the earths were not stopped. Then there came tidings
of a terrible calamity. A dying fox, with a trap to its pad, was found in the outskirts of
the Wood; and Lord Chiltern wrote to the Duke. He drew the Wood in regular course before any
answer could be received,--and three of his hounds picked up poison, and died beneath his eyes.
He wrote to the Duke again,--a cutting letter; and then came from the Duke's man of business,
Mr. Fothergill, a very short reply, which Lord Chiltern regarded as an insult. Hitherto the
affair had not got into the sporting papers, and was simply a matter of angry discussion at
every meet in the neighbouring counties. Lord Chiltern was very full of wrath, and always looked
as though he desired to avenge those poor hounds on the Duke and all belonging to him. To a
Master of Hounds the poisoning of one of his pack is murder of the deepest dye. There probably
never was a Master who in his heart of hearts would not think it right that a detected culprit
should be hung for such an offence. And most Masters would go further than this, and declare
that in the absence of such detection the owner of the covert in which the poison had been
picked up should be held to be responsible. In this instance the condition of ownership was
unfortunate. The Duke himself was old, feeble, and almost imbecile. He had never been eminent
as a sportsman; but, in a not energetic manner, he had endeavoured to do his duty by the country.
His heir, Plantagenet Palliser, was simply a statesman, who, as regarded himself, had never
a day to spare for amusement; and who, in reference to sport, had unfortunate fantastic notions
that pheasants and rabbits destroyed crops, and that foxes were injurious to old women's poultry.
He, however, was not the owner, and had refused to interfere. There had been family quarrels
too, adverse to the sporting interests of the younger Palliser scions, so that the shooting
of this wood had drifted into the hands of Mr. Fothergill and his friends. Now, Lord Chiltern
had settled it in his own mind that the hounds had been poisoned, if not in compliance with
Mr. Fothergill's orders, at any rate in furtherance of his wishes, and, could he have had his
way, he certainly would have sent Mr. Fothergill to the gallows. Now, Miss Palliser, who was
still staying at Lord Chiltern's house, was niece to the old Duke, and first cousin to the
heir. "They are nothing to me," she said once, when Lord Chiltern had attempted to apologise
for the abuse he was heaping on her relatives. "I haven't seen the Duke since I was a little
child, and I shouldn't know my cousin were I to meet him."

"So much the more gracious is your condition," said Lady Chiltern,--"at any rate in Oswald's
estimation."

"I know them, and once spent a couple of days at Matching with them," said Lord Chiltern. "The
Duke is an old fool, who always gave himself greater airs than any other man in England,--and
as far as I can see, with less to excuse them. As for Planty Pall, he and I belong so essentially
to different orders of things, that we can hardly be reckoned as being both men."

"And which is the man, Lord Chiltern?"

"Whichever you please, my dear; only not both. Doggett was over there yesterday, and found
three separate traps."

"What did he do with the traps?" said Lady Chiltern.

"I wasn't fool enough to ask him, but I don't in the least doubt that he threw them into the
water--or that he'd throw Palliser there too if he could get hold of him. As for taking the
hounds to Trumpeton again, I wouldn't do it if there were not another covert in the country."

"Then leave it so, and have done with it," said his wife. "I wouldn't fret as you do for what
another man did with his own property, for all the foxes in England."

"That is because you understand nothing of hunting, my dear. A man's property is his own in
one sense, but isn't his own in another. A man can't do what he likes with his coverts."

"He can cut them down."

"But he can't let another pack hunt them, and he can't hunt them himself. If he's in a hunting
county he is bound to preserve foxes."

"What binds him, Oswald? A man can't be bound without a penalty."

"I should think it penalty enough for everybody to hate me. What are you going to do about
Phineas Finn?"

"I have asked him to come on the 1st and stay till Parliament meets."

"And is that woman coming?"

"There are two or three women coming."

"She with the German name, whom you made me dine with in Park Lane?"

"Madame Max Goesler is coming. She brings her own horses, and they will stand at Doggett's."

"They can't stand here, for there is not a stall."

"I am so sorry that my poor little fellow should incommode you," said Miss Palliser.

"You're a licensed offender,--though, upon my honour, I don't know whether I ought to give
a feed of oats to any one having a connection with Trumpeton Wood. And what is Phineas to ride?"

"He shall ride my horses," said Lady Chiltern, whose present condition in life rendered hunting
inopportune to her.

"Neither of them would carry him a mile. He wants about as good an animal as you can put him
upon. I don't know what I'm to do. It's all very well for Laura to say that he must be mounted."

"You wouldn't refuse to give Mr. Finn a mount!" said Lady Chiltern, almost with dismay.

"I'd give him my right hand to ride, only it wouldn't carry him. I can't make horses. Harry
brought home that brown mare on Tuesday with an overreach that she won't get over this season.
What the deuce they do with their horses to knock them about so, I can't understand. I've killed
horses in my time, and ridden them to a stand-still, but I never bruised them and battered
them about as these fellows do."

"Then I'd better write to Mr. Finn, and tell him," said Lady Chiltern, very gravely.

"Oh, Phineas Finn!" said Lord Chiltern; "oh, Phineas Finn! what a pity it was that you and
I didn't see the matter out when we stood opposite to each other on the sands at Blankenberg!"

"Oswald," said his wife, getting up, and putting her arm over his shoulder, "you know you would
give your best horse to Mr. Finn, as long as he chose to stay here, though you rode upon a
donkey yourself."

"I know that if I didn't, you would," said Lord Chiltern. And so the matter was settled.

At night, when they were alone together, there was further discussion as to the visitors who
were coming to Harrington Hall. "Is Gerard Maule to come back?" asked the husband.

"I have asked him. He left his horses at Doggett's, you know."

"I didn't know."

"I certainly told you, Oswald. Do you object to his coming? You can't really mean that you
care about his riding?"

"It isn't that. You must have some whipping post, and he's as good as another. But he shilly-shallies
about that girl. I hate all that stuff like poison."

"All men are not so--abrupt shall I say?--as you were."

"I had something to say, and I said it. When I had said it a dozen times, I got to have it
believed. He doesn't say it as though he meant to have it believed."

"You were always in earnest, Oswald."

"I was."

"To the extent of the three minutes which you allowed yourself. It sufficed, however;--did
it not? You are glad you persevered?"

"What fools women are."

"Never mind that. Say you are glad. I like you to tell me so. Let me be a fool if I will."

"What made you so obstinate?"

"I don't know. I never could tell. It wasn't that I didn't dote upon you, and think about you,
and feel quite sure that there never could be any other one than you."

"I've no doubt it was all right;--only you very nearly made me shoot a fellow, and now I've
got to find horses for him. I wonder whether he could ride Dandolo?"

"Don't put him up on anything very hard."

"Why not? His wife is dead, and he hasn't got a child, nor yet an acre of property. I don't
know who is entitled to break his neck if he is not. And Dandolo is as good a horse as there
is in the stable, if you can once get him to go. Mind, I have to start to-morrow at nine, for
it's all eighteen miles." And so the Master of the Brake Hounds took himself to his repose.

Lady Laura Kennedy had written to Barrington Erle respecting her friend's political interests,
and to her sister-in-law, Lady Chiltern, as to his social comfort. She could not bear to think
that he should be left alone in London till Parliament should meet, and had therefore appealed
to Lady Chiltern as to the memory of many past events. The appeal had been unnecessary and
superfluous. It cannot be said that Phineas and his affairs were matters of as close an interest
to Lady Chiltern as to Lady Laura. If any woman loved her husband beyond all things Lord Chiltern's
wife did, and ever had done so. But there had been a tenderness in regard to the young Irish
Member of Parliament, which Violet Effingham had in old days shared with Lady Laura, and which
made her now think that all good things should be done for him. She believed him to be addicted
to hunting, and therefore horses must be provided for him. He was a widower, and she remembered
of old that he was fond of pretty women, and she knew that in coming days he might probably
want money;--and therefore she had asked Madame Max Goesler to spend a fortnight at Harrington
Hall. Madame Max Goesler and Phineas Finn had been acquainted before, as Lady Chiltern was
well aware. But perhaps Lady Chiltern, when she summoned Madame Max into the country, did not
know how close the acquaintance had been.

Madame Max came a couple of days before Phineas, and was taken out hunting on the morning after
her arrival. She was a lady who could ride to hounds,--and who, indeed, could do nearly anything
to which she set her mind. She was dark, thin, healthy, good-looking, clever, ambitious, rich,
unsatisfied, perhaps unscrupulous,--but not without a conscience. As has been told in a former
portion of this chronicle, she could always seem to be happy with her companion of the day,
and yet there was ever present a gnawing desire to do something more and something better than
she had as yet achieved. Of course, as he took her to the meet, Lord Chiltern told her his
grievance respecting Trumpeton Wood. "But, my dear Lord Chiltern, you must not abuse the Duke
of Omnium to me."

"Why not to you?"

"He and I are sworn friends."

"He's a hundred years old."

"And why shouldn't I have a friend a hundred years old? And as for Mr. Palliser, he knows no
more of your foxes than I know of his taxes. Why don't you write to Lady Glencora? She understands
everything."

"Is she a friend of yours, too?"

"My particular friend. She and I, you know, look after the poor dear Duke between us."

"I can understand why she should sacrifice herself."

"But not why I do. I can't explain it myself; but so it has come to pass, and I must not hear
the Duke abused. May I write to Lady Glencora about it?"

"Certainly,--if you please; but not as giving her any message from me. Her uncle's property
is mismanaged most damnably. If you choose to tell her that I say so you can. I'm not going
to ask anything as a favour. I never do ask favours. But the Duke or Planty Palliser among
them should do one of two things. They should either stand by the hunting, or they should let
it alone;--and they should say what they mean. I like to know my friends, and I like to know
my enemies."

"I am sure the Duke is not your enemy, Lord Chiltern."

"These Pallisers have always been running with the hare and hunting with the hounds. They are
great aristocrats, and yet are always going in for the people. I'm told that Planty Pall calls
fox-hunting barbarous. Why doesn't he say so out loud, and stub up Trumpeton Wood and grow corn?"

"Perhaps he will when Trumpeton Wood belongs to him."

"I should like that much better than poisoning hounds and trapping foxes." When they got to
the meet, conclaves of men might be seen gathered together here and there, and in each conclave
they were telling something new or something old as to the iniquities perpetrated at Trumpeton
Wood.

On that evening before dinner Madame Goesler was told by her hostess that Phineas Finn was
expected on the following day. The communication was made quite as a matter of course; but
Lady Chiltern had chosen a time in which the lights were shaded, and the room was dark. Adelaide
Palliser was present, as was also a certain Lady Baldock,--not that Lady Baldock who had abused
all Papists to poor Phineas, but her son's wife. They were drinking tea together over the fire,
and the dim lights were removed from the circle. This, no doubt, was simply an accident; but
the gloom served Madame Goesler during one moment of embarrassment. "An old friend of yours
is coming here to-morrow," said Lady Chiltern.

"An old friend of mine! Shall I call my friend he or she?"

"You remember Mr. Finn?"

That was the moment in which Madame Goesler rejoiced that no strong glare of light fell upon
her face. But she was a woman who would not long leave herself subject to any such embarrassment.
"Surely," she said, confining herself at first to the single word.

"He is coming here. He is a great friend of mine."

"He always was a good friend of yours, Lady Chiltern."

"And of yours, too, Madame Max. A sort of general friend, I think, was Mr. Finn in the old
days. I hope you will be glad to see him."

"Oh, dear, yes."

"I thought him very nice," said Adelaide Palliser.

"I remember mamma saying, before she was mamma, you know," said Lady Baldock, "that Mr. Finn
was very nice indeed, only he was a Papist, and only he had got no money, and only he would
fall in love with everybody. Does he go on falling in love with people, Violet?"

"Never with married women, my dear. He has had a wife himself since that, Madame Goesler, and
the poor thing died."

"And now here he is beginning all over again," said Lady Baldock.

"And as pleasant as ever," said her cousin. "You know he has done all manner of things for
our family. He picked Oswald up once after one of those terrible hunting accidents; and he
saved Mr. Kennedy when men were murdering him."

"That was questionable kindness," said Lady Baldock.

"And he sat for Lord Brentford's borough."

"How good of him!" said Miss Palliser.

"And he has done all manner of things," said Lady Chiltern.

"Didn't he once fight a duel?" asked Madame Goesler.

"That was the grandest thing of all," said his friend, "for he didn't shoot somebody whom perhaps
he might have shot had he been as bloodthirsty as somebody else. And now he has come back to
Parliament, and all that kind of thing, and he's coming here to hunt. I hope you'll be glad
to see him, Madame Goesler."

"I shall be very glad to see him," said Madame Goesler, slowly; "I heard about his success
at that town, and I knew that I should meet him somewhere."

CHAPTER XV

"How well you knew!"

It was necessary also that some communication should be made to Phineas, so that he might not
come across Madame Goesler unawares. Lady Chiltern was more alive to that necessity than she
had been to the other, and felt that the gentleman, if not warned of what was to take place,
would be much more likely than the lady to be awkward at the trying moment. Madame Goesler
would in any circumstances be sure to recover her self-possession very quickly, even were she
to lose it for a moment; but so much could hardly be said for the social powers of Phineas
Finn. Lady Chiltern therefore contrived to see him alone for a moment on his arrival. "Who
do you think is here?"

"Lady Laura has not come!"

"Indeed, no; I wish she had. An old friend, but not so old as Laura!"

"I cannot guess;--not Lord Fawn?"

"Lord Fawn! What would Lord Fawn do here? Don't you know that Lord Fawn goes nowhere since
his last matrimonial trouble? It's a friend of yours, not of mine."

"Madame Goesler?" whispered Phineas.

"How well you knew when I said it was a friend of yours. Madame Goesler is here,--not altered
in the least."

"Madame Goesler!"

"Does it annoy you?"

"Oh, no. Why should it annoy me?"

"You never quarrelled with her?"

"Never!"

"There is no reason why you should not meet her?"

"None at all;--only I was surprised. Did she know that I was coming?"

"I told her yesterday. I hope that I have not done wrong or made things unpleasant. I knew
that you used to be friends."

"And as friends we parted, Lady Chiltern." He had nothing more to say in the matter; nor had
she. He could not tell the story of what had taken place between himself and the lady, and
she could not keep herself from surmising that something had taken place, which, had she known
it, would have prevented her from bringing the two together at Harrington.

Madame Goesler, when she was dressing, acknowledged to herself that she had a task before her
which would require all her tact and all her courage. She certainly would not have accepted
Lady Chiltern's invitation had she known that she would encounter Phineas Finn at the house.
She had twenty-four hours to think of it, and at one time had almost made up her mind that
some sudden business should recall her to London. Of course, her motive would be suspected.
Of course Lady Chiltern would connect her departure with the man's arrival. But even that,
bad as it would be, might be preferable to the meeting! What a fool had she been,--so she accused
herself,--in not foreseeing that such an accident might happen, knowing as she did that Phineas
Finn had reappeared in the political world, and that he and the Chiltern people had ever been
fast friends! As she had thought about it, lying awake at night, she had told herself that
she must certainly be recalled back to London by business. She would telegraph up to town,
raising a question about any trifle, and on receipt of the answer she could be off with something
of an excuse. The shame of running away from the man seemed to be a worse evil than the shame
of meeting him. She had in truth done nothing to disgrace herself. In her desire to save a
man whom she had loved from the ruin which she thought had threatened him, she had--offered
him her hand. She had made the offer, and he had refused it! That was all. No; she would not
be driven to confess to herself that she had ever fled from the face of man or woman. This
man would be again in London, and she could not always fly. It would be only necessary that
she should maintain her own composure, and the misery of the meeting would pass away after
the first few minutes. One consolation was assured to her. She thoroughly believed in the man,--feeling
certain that he had not betrayed her, and would not betray her. But now, as the time for the
meeting drew near, as she stood for a moment before the glass,--pretending to look at herself
in order that her maid might not remark her uneasiness, she found that her courage, great as
it was, hardly sufficed her. She almost plotted some scheme of a headache, by which she might
be enabled not to show herself till after dinner. "I am so blind that I can hardly see out
of my eyes," she said to the maid, actually beginning the scheme. The woman assumed a look
of painful solicitude, and declared that "Madame did not look quite her best." "I suppose I
shall shake it off," said Madame Goesler; and then she descended the stairs.

The condition of Phineas Finn was almost as bad, but he had a much less protracted period of
anticipation than that with which the lady was tormented. He was sent up to dress for dinner
with the knowledge that in half an hour he would find himself in the same room with Madame
Goesler. There could be no question of his running away, no possibility even of his escaping
by a headache. But it may be doubted whether his dismay was not even more than hers. She knew
that she could teach herself to use no other than fitting words; but he was almost sure that
he would break down if he attempted to speak to her. She would be safe from blushing, but he
would assuredly become as red as a turkey-cock's comb up to the roots of his hair. Her blood
would be under control, but his would be coursing hither and thither through his veins, so
as to make him utterly unable to rule himself. Nevertheless, he also plucked up his courage
and descended, reaching the drawing-room before Madame Goesler had entered it. Chiltern was
going on about Trumpeton Wood to Lord Baldock, and was renewing his fury against all the Pallisers,
while Adelaide stood by and laughed. Gerard Maule was lounging on a chair, wondering that any
man could expend such energy on such a subject. Lady Chiltern was explaining the merits of
the case to Lady Baldock,--who knew nothing about hunting; and the other guests were listening
with eager attention. A certain Mr. Spooner, who rode hard and did nothing else, and who acted
as an unacknowledged assistant-master under Lord Chiltern,--there is such a man in every hunt,--acted
as chorus, and indicated, chiefly with dumb show, the strong points of the case.

"Finn, how are you?" said Lord Chiltern, stretching out his left hand. "Glad to have you back
again, and congratulate you about the seat. It was put down in red herrings, and we found nearly
a dozen of them afterwards,--enough to kill half the pack."

"Picked up nine," said Mr. Spooner.

"Children might have picked them up quite as well,--and eaten them," said Lady Chiltern.

"They didn't care about that," continued the Master. "And now they've wires and traps over
the whole place. Palliser's a friend of yours--isn't he, Finn?"

"Of course I knew him,--when I was in office."

"I don't know what he may be in office, but he's an uncommon bad sort of fellow to have in
a county."

"Shameful!" said Mr. Spooner, lifting up both his hands.

"This is my first cousin, you know," whispered Adelaide, to Lady Baldock.

"If he were my own brother, or my grandmother, I should say the same," continued the angry
lord. "We must have a meeting about it, and let the world know it,--that's all." At this moment
the door was again opened, and Madame Goesler entered the room.

When one wants to be natural, of necessity one becomes the reverse of natural. A clever actor,--or
more frequently a clever actress,--will assume the appearance; but the very fact of the assumption
renders the reality impossible. Lady Chiltern was generally very clever in the arrangement
of all little social difficulties, and, had she thought less about it, might probably have
managed the present affair in an easy and graceful manner. But the thing had weighed upon her
mind, and she had decided that it would be expedient that she should say something when those
two old friends first met each other again in her drawing-room. "Madame Max," she said, "you
remember Mr. Finn." Lord Chiltern for a moment stopped the torrent of his abuse. Lord Baldock
made a little effort to look uninterested, but quite in vain. Mr. Spooner stood on one side.
Lady Baldock stared with all her eyes,--with some feeling of instinct that there would be something
to see; and Gerard Maule, rising from the sofa, joined the circle. It seemed as though Lady
Chiltern's words had caused the formation of a ring in the midst of which Phineas and Madame
Goesler were to renew their acquaintance.

"Very well indeed," said Madame Max, putting out her hand and looking full into our hero's
face with her sweetest smile. "And I hope Mr. Finn will not have forgotten me." She did it
admirably--so well that surely she need not have thought of running away.

But poor Phineas was not happy. "I shall never forget you," said he; and then that unavoidable
blush suffused his face, and the blood began to career through his veins.

"I am so glad you are in Parliament again," said Madame Max.

"Yes;--I've got in again, after a struggle. Are you still living in Park Lane?"

"Oh, yes;--and shall be most happy to see you." Then she seated herself,--as did also Lady
Chiltern by her side. "I see the poor Duke's iniquities are still under discussion. I hope
Lord Chiltern recognises the great happiness of having a grievance. It would be a pity that
so great a blessing should be thrown away upon him." For the moment Madame Max had got through
her difficulty, and, indeed, had done so altogether till the moment should come in which she
should find herself alone with Phineas. But he slunk back from the gathering before the fire,
and stood solitary and silent till dinner was announced. It became his fate to take an old
woman into dinner who was not very clearsighted. "Did you know that lady before?" she asked.

"Oh, yes; I knew her two or three years ago in London."

"Do you think she is pretty?"

"Certainly."

"All the men say so, but I never can see it. They have been saying ever so long that the old
Duke of Omnium means to marry her on his deathbed, but I don't suppose there can be anything
in it."

"Why should he put it off for so very inopportune an occasion?" asked Phineas.

CHAPTER XVI

Copperhouse Cross and Broughton Spinnies

After all, the thing had not been so very bad. With a little courage and hardihood we can survive
very great catastrophes, and go through them even without broken bones. Phineas, when he got
up to his room, found that he had spent the evening in company with Madame Goesler, and had
not suffered materially, except at the very first moment of the meeting. He had not said a
word to the lady, except such as were spoken in mixed conversation with her and others; but
they had been together, and no bones had been broken. It could not be that his old intimacy
should be renewed, but he could now encounter her in society, as the Fates might direct, without
a renewal of that feeling of dismay which had been so heavy on him.

He was about to undress when there came a knock at the door, and his host entered the room.
"What do you mean to do about smoking?" Lord Chiltern asked.

"Nothing at all."

"There's a fire in the smoking-room, but I'm tired, and I want to go to bed. Baldock doesn't
smoke. Gerard Maule is smoking in his own room, I take it. You'll probably find Spooner at
this moment established somewhere in the back slums, having a pipe with old Doggett, and planning
retribution. You can join them if you please."

"Not to-night, I think. They wouldn't trust me,--and I should spoil their plans."

"They certainly wouldn't trust you,--or any other human being. You don't mind a horse that
baulks a little, do you?"

"I'm not going to hunt, Chiltern."

"Yes, you are. I've got it all arranged. Don't you be a fool, and make us all uncomfortable.
Everybody rides here;--every man, woman, and child about the place. You shall have one of the
best horses I've got;--only you must be particular about your spurs."

"Indeed, I'd rather not. The truth is, I can't afford to ride my own horses, and therefore
I'd rather not ride my friends'."

"That's all gammon. When Violet wrote she told you you'd be expected to come out. Your old
flame, Madame Max, will be there, and I tell you she has a very pretty idea of keeping to hounds.
Only Dandolo has that little defect."

"Is Dandolo the horse?"

"Yes;--Dandolo is the horse. He's up to a stone over your weight, and can do any mortal thing
within a horse's compass. Cox won't ride him because he baulks, and so he has come into my
stable. If you'll only let him know that you're on his back, and have got a pair of spurs on
your heels with rowels in them, he'll take you anywhere. Good-night, old fellow. You can smoke
if you choose, you know."

Phineas had resolved that he would not hunt; but, nevertheless, he had brought boots with him,
and breeches, fancying that if he did not he would be forced out without those comfortable
appurtenances. But there came across his heart a feeling that he had reached a time of life
in which it was no longer comfortable for him to live as a poor man with men who were rich.
It had been his lot to do so when he was younger, and there had been some pleasure in it; but
now he would rather live alone and dwell upon the memories of the past. He, too, might have
been rich, and have had horses at command, had he chosen to sacrifice himself for money.

On the next morning they started in a huge waggonette for Copperhouse Cross,--a meet that was
suspiciously near to the Duke's fatal wood. Spooner had explained to Phineas over night that
they never did draw Trumpeton Wood on Copperhouse Cross days, and that under no possible circumstances
would Chiltern now draw Trumpeton Wood. But there is no saying where a fox may run. At this
time of the year, just the beginning of February, dog-foxes from the big woods were very apt
to be away from home, and when found would go straight for their own earths. It was very possible
that they might find themselves in Trumpeton Wood, and then certainly there would be a row.
Spooner shrugged his shoulders, and shook his head, and seemed to insinuate that Lord Chiltern
would certainly do something very dreadful to the Duke or to the Duke's heir if any law of
venery should again be found to have been broken on this occasion.

The distance to Copperhouse Cross was twelve miles, and Phineas found himself placed in the
carriage next to Madame Goesler. It had not been done of fixed design; but when a party of
six are seated in a carriage, the chances are that one given person will be next to or opposite
to any other given person. Madame Max had remembered this, and had prepared herself, but Phineas
was taken aback when he found how close was his neighbourhood to the lady. "Get in, Phineas,"
said his lordship. Gerard Maule had already seated himself next to Miss Palliser, and Phineas
had no alternative but to take the place next to Madame Max.

"I didn't know that you rode to hounds?" said Phineas.

"Oh, yes; I have done so for years. When we met it was always in London, Mr. Finn; and people
there never know what other people do. Have you heard of this terrible affair about the Duke?"

"Oh, dear, yes."

"Poor Duke! He and I have seen a great deal of each other since,--since the days when you and
I used to meet. He knows nothing about all this, and the worst of it is, he is not in a condition
to be told."

"Lady Glencora could put it all right."

"I'll tell Lady Glencora, of course," said Madame Max. "It seems so odd in this country that
the owner of a property does not seem at all to have any exclusive right to it. I suppose the
Duke could shut up the wood if he liked."

"But they poisoned the hounds."

"Nobody supposes the Duke did that,--or even the Duke's servants, I should think. But Lord
Chiltern will hear us if we don't take care."

"I've heard every word you've been saying," exclaimed Lord Chiltern.

"Has it been traced to any one?"

"No,--not traced, I suppose."

"What then, Lord Chiltern? You may speak out to me. When I'm wrong I like to be told so."

"Then you're wrong now," said Lord Chiltern, "if you take the part of the Duke or of any of
his people. He is bound to find foxes for the Brake hunt. It is almost a part of his title
deeds. Instead of doing so he has had them destroyed."

"It's as bad as voting against the Church establishment," said Madame Goesler.

There was a very large meet at Copperhouse Cross, and both Madame Goesler and Phineas Finn
found many old acquaintances there. As Phineas had formerly sat in the House for five years,
and had been in office, and had never made himself objectionable either to his friends or adversaries,
he had been widely known. He now found half a dozen men who were always members of Parliament,--men
who seem, though commoners, to have been born legislators,--who all spoke to him as though
his being member for Tankerville and hunting with the Brake hounds were equally matters of
course. They knew him, but they knew nothing of the break in his life. Or if they remembered
that he had not been seen about the House for the last two or three years they remembered also
that accidents do happen to some men. It will occur now and again that a regular denizen of
Westminster will get a fall in the political hunting-field, and have to remain about the world
for a year or two without a seat. That Phineas had lately triumphed over Browborough at Tankerville
was known, the event having been so recent; and men congratulated him, talking of poor Browborough,--whose
heavy figure had been familiar to them for many a year,--but by no means recognising that the
event of which they spoke had been, as it were, life and death to their friend. Roby was there,
who was at this moment Mr. Daubeny's head whip and patronage secretary. If any one should have
felt acutely the exclusion of Mr. Browborough from the House,--any one beyond the sufferer
himself,--it should have been Mr. Roby; but he made himself quite pleasant, and even condescended
to be jocose upon the occasion. "So you've beat poor Browborough in his own borough," said
Mr. Roby.

"I've beat him," said Phineas; "but not, I hope, in a borough of his own."

"He's been there for the last fifteen years. Poor old fellow! He's awfully cut up about this
Church Question. I shouldn't have thought he'd have taken anything so much to heart. There
are worse fellows than Browborough, let me tell you. What's all this I hear about the Duke
poisoning the foxes?" But the crowd had begun to move, and Phineas was not called upon to answer
the question.

Copperhouse Cross in the Brake Hunt was a very popular meet. It was easily reached by a train
from London, was in the centre of an essentially hunting country, was near to two or three
good coverts, and was in itself a pretty spot. Two roads intersected each other on the middle
of Copperhouse Common, which, as all the world knows, lies just on the outskirts of Copperhouse
Forest. A steep winding hill leads down from the Wood to the Cross, and there is no such thing
within sight as an enclosure. At the foot of the hill, running under the wooden bridge, straggles
the Copperhouse Brook,--so called by the hunting men of the present day, though men who know
the country of old, or rather the county, will tell you that it is properly called the river
Cobber, and that the spacious old farm buildings above were once known as the Cobber Manor
House. He would be a vain man who would now try to change the name, as Copperhouse Cross has
been printed in all the lists of hunting meets for at least the last thirty years; and the
Ordnance map has utterly rejected the two b's. Along one of the cross-roads there was a broad
extent of common, some seven or eight hundred yards in length, on which have been erected the
butts used by those well-known defenders of their country, the Copperhouse Volunteer Rifles;
and just below the bridge the sluggish water becomes a little lake, having probably at some
time been artificially widened, and there is a little island and a decoy for ducks. On the
present occasion carriages were drawn up on all the roads, and horses were clustered on each
side of the brook, and the hounds sat stately on their haunches where riflemen usually kneel
to fire, and there was a hum of merry voices, and the bright colouring of pink coats, and the
sheen of ladies' hunting toilettes, and that mingled look of business and amusement which is
so peculiar to our national sports. Two hundred men and women had come there for the chance
of a run after a fox,--for a chance against which the odds are more than two to one at every
hunting day,--for a chance as to which the odds are twenty to one against the success of the
individuals collected; and yet, for every horseman and every horsewoman there, not less than
£5 a head will have been spent for this one day's amusement. When we give a guinea for a stall
at the opera we think that we pay a large sum; but we are fairly sure of having our music.
When you go to Copperhouse Cross you are by no means sure of your opera.

Why is it that when men and women congregate, though the men may beat the women in numbers
by ten to one, and though they certainly speak the louder, the concrete sound that meets the
ears of any outside listener is always a sound of women's voices? At Copperhouse Cross almost
every one was talking, but the feeling left upon the senses was that of an amalgam of feminine
laughter, feminine affectation, and feminine eagerness. Perhaps at Copperhouse Cross the determined
perseverance with which Lady Gertrude Fitzaskerley addressed herself to Lord Chiltern, to Cox
the huntsman, to the two whips, and at last to Mr. Spooner, may have specially led to the remark
on this occasion. Lady Chiltern was very short with her, not loving Lady Gertrude. Cox bestowed
upon her two "my lady's," and then turned from her to some peccant hound. But Spooner was partly
gratified, and partly incapable, and underwent a long course of questions about the Duke and
the poisoning. Lady Gertrude, whose father seemed to have owned half the coverts in Ireland,
had never before heard of such enormity. She suggested a round robin and would not be at all
ashamed to put her own name to it. "Oh, for the matter of that," said Spooner, "Chiltern can
be round enough himself without any robin." "He can't be too round," said Lady Gertrude, with
a very serious aspect.

At last they moved away, and Phineas found himself riding by the side of Madame Goesler. It
was natural that he should do so, as he had come with her. Maule had, of course, remained with
Miss Palliser, and Chiltern and Spooner had taken themselves to their respective duties. Phineas
might have avoided her, but in doing so he would have seemed to avoid her. She accepted his
presence apparently as a matter of course, and betrayed by her words and manner no memory of
past scenes. It was not customary with them to draw the forest, which indeed, as it now stood,
was a forest only in name, and they trotted off to a gorse a mile and a half distant. This
they drew blank,--then another gorse also blank,--and two or three little fringes of wood,
such as there are in every country, and through which huntsmen run their hounds, conscious
that no fox will lie there. At one o'clock they had not found, and the hilarity of the really
hunting men as they ate their sandwiches and lit their cigars was on the decrease. The ladies
talked more than ever, Lady Gertrude's voice was heard above them all, and Lord Chiltern trotted
on close behind his hounds in obdurate silence. When things were going bad with him no one
in the field dared to speak to him.

Phineas had never seen his horse till he reached the meet, and there found a fine-looking,
very strong, bay animal, with shoulders like the top of a hay-stack, short-backed, short-legged,
with enormous quarters, and a wicked-looking eye. "He ought to be strong," said Phineas to
the groom. "Oh, sir; strong ain't no word for him," said the groom; "'e can carry a 'ouse."
"I don't know whether he's fast?" inquired Phineas. "He's fast enough for any 'ounds, sir,"
said the man with that tone of assurance which always carries conviction. "And he can jump?"
"He can jump!" continued the groom; "no 'orse in my lord's stables can't beat him." "But he
won't?" said Phineas. "It's only sometimes, sir, and then the best thing is to stick him at
it till he do. He'll go, he will, like a shot at last; and then he's right for the day." Hunting
men will know that all this was not quite comfortable. When you ride your own horse, and know
his special defects, you know also how far that defect extends, and what real prospect you
have of overcoming it. If he be slow through the mud, you keep a good deal on the road in heavy
weather, and resolve that the present is not an occasion for distinguishing yourself. If he
be bad at timber, you creep through a hedge. If he pulls, you get as far from the crowd as
may be. You gauge your misfortune, and make your little calculation as to the best mode of
remedying the evil. But when you are told that your friend's horse is perfect,--only that he
does this or that,--there comes a weight on your mind from which you are unable to release
it. You cannot discount your trouble at any percentage. It may amount to absolute ruin, as
far as that day is concerned; and in such a circumstance you always look forward to the worst.
When the groom had done his description, Phineas Finn would almost have preferred a day's canvass
at Tankerville under Mr. Ruddles's authority to his present position.

When the hounds entered Broughton Spinnies, Phineas and Madame Goesler were still together.
He had not been riding actually at her side all the morning. Many men and two or three ladies
had been talking to her. But he had never been far from her in the ruck, and now he was again
close by her horse's head. Broughton Spinnies were in truth a series of small woods, running
one into another almost without intermission, never thick, and of no breadth. There was always
a litter or two of cubs at the place, and in no part of the Brake country was greater care
taken in the way of preservation and encouragement to interesting vixens; but the lying was
bad; there was little or no real covert; and foxes were very apt to travel and get away into
those big woods belonging to the Duke,--where, as the Brake sportsmen now believed, they would
almost surely come to an untimely end. "If we draw this blank I don't know what we are to do,"
said Mr. Spooner, addressing himself to Madame Goesler with lachrymose anxiety.

"Have you nothing else to draw?" asked Phineas.

"In the common course of things we should take Muggery Gorse, and so on to Trumpeton Wood.
But Muggery is on the Duke's land, and Chiltern is in such a fix! He won't go there unless
he can't help it. Muggery Gorse is only a mile this side of the big wood."

"And foxes of course go to the big wood?" asked Madame Max.

"Not always. They often come here,--and as they can't hang here, we have the whole country
before us. We get as good runs from Muggery as from any covert in the country. But Chiltern
won't go there to-day unless the hounds show a line. By George, that's a fox! That's Dido.
That's a find!" And Spooner galloped away, as though Dido could do nothing with the fox she
had found unless he was there to help her.

Spooner was quite right, as he generally was on such occasions. He knew the hounds even by
voice, and knew what hound he could believe. Most hounds will lie occasionally, but Dido never
lied. And there were many besides Spooner who believed in Dido. The whole pack rushed to her
music, though the body of them would have remained utterly unmoved at the voice of any less
reverenced and less trustworthy colleague. The whole wood was at once in commotion,--men and
women riding hither and thither, not in accordance with any judgment; but as they saw or thought
they saw others riding who were supposed to have judgment. To get away well is so very much!
And to get away well is often so very difficult! There are so many things of which the horseman
is bound to think in that moment. Which way does the wind blow? And then, though a fox will
not long run up wind, he will break covert up wind, as often as not. From which of the various
rides can you find a fair exit into the open country, without a chance of breaking your neck
before the run begins? When you hear some wild halloa, informing you that one fox has gone
in the direction exactly opposite to that in which the hounds are hunting, are you sure that
the noise is not made about a second fox? On all these matters you are bound to make up your
mind without losing a moment; and if you make up your mind wrongly the five pounds you have
invested in that day's amusement will have been spent for nothing. Phineas and Madame Goesler
were in the very centre of the wood when Spooner rushed away from them down one of the rides
on hearing Dido's voice; and at that time they were in a crowd. Almost immediately the fox
was seen to cross another ride, and a body of horsemen rushed away in that direction, knowing
that the covert was small, and there the animal must soon leave the wood. Then there was a
shout of "Away!" repeated over and over again, and Lord Chiltern, running up like a flash of
lightning, and passing our two friends, galloped down a third ride to the right of the others.
Phineas at once followed the master of the pack, and Madame Goesler followed Phineas. Men were
still riding hither and thither; and a farmer, meeting them, with his horse turned back towards
the centre of the wood which they were leaving, halloaed out as they passed that there was
no way out at the bottom. They met another man in pink, who screamed out something as to "the
devil of a bank down there." Chiltern, however, was still going on, and our hero had not the
heart to stop his horse in its gallop and turn back from the direction in which the hounds
were running. At that moment he hardly remembered the presence of Madame Goesler, but he did
remember every word that had been said to him about Dandolo. He did not in the least doubt
but that Chiltern had chosen his direction rightly, and that if he were once out of the wood
he would find himself with the hounds; but what if this brute should refuse to take him out
of the wood? That Dandolo was very fast he soon became aware, for he gained upon his friend
before him as they neared the fence. And then he saw what there was before him. A new broad
ditch had been cut, with the express object of preventing egress or ingress at that point;
and a great bank had been constructed with the clay. In all probability there might be another
ditch on the other side. Chiltern, however, had clearly made up his mind about it. The horse
he was riding went at it gallantly, cleared the first ditch, balanced himself for half a moment
on the bank, and then, with a fresh spring, got into the field beyond. The tail hounds were
running past outside the covert, and the master had placed himself exactly right for the work
in hand. How excellent would be the condition of Finn if only Dandolo would do just as Chiltern's
horse had done before him!

And Phineas almost began to hope that it might be so. The horse was going very well, and very
willingly. His head was stretched out, he was pulling, not more, however, than pleasantly,
and he seemed to be as anxious as his rider. But there was a little twitch about his ears which
his rider did not like, and then it was impossible not to remember that awful warning given
by the groom, "It's only sometimes, sir." And after what fashion should Phineas ride him at
the obstacle? He did not like to strike a horse that seemed to be going well, and was unwilling,
as are all good riders, to use his heels. So he spoke to him, and proposed to lift him at the
ditch. To the very edge the horse galloped,--too fast, indeed, if he meant to take the bank
as Chiltern's horse had done,--and then stopping himself so suddenly that he must have shaken
every joint in his body, he planted his fore feet on the very brink, and there he stood, with
his head down, quivering in every muscle. Phineas Finn, following naturally the momentum which
had been given to him, went over the brute's neck head-foremost into the ditch. Madame Max
was immediately off her horse. "Oh, Mr. Finn, are you hurt?"

But Phineas, happily, was not hurt. He was shaken and dirty, but not so shaken, and not so
dirty, but that he was on his legs in a minute, imploring his companion not to mind him but
go on. "Going on doesn't seem to be so easy," said Madame Goesler, looking at the ditch as
she held her horse in her hand. But to go back in such circumstances is a terrible disaster.
It amounts to complete defeat; and is tantamount to a confession that you must go home, because
you are unable to ride to hounds. A man, when he is compelled to do this, is almost driven
to resolve at the spur of the moment that he will give up hunting for the rest of his life.
And if one thing be more essential than any other to the horseman in general, it is that he,
and not the animal which he rides, shall be the master. "The best thing is to stick him at
it till he do," the groom had said; and Phineas resolved to be guided by the groom.

But his first duty was to attend on Madame Goesler. With very little assistance she was again
in her saddle, and she at once declared herself certain that her horse could take the fence.
Phineas again instantly jumped into his saddle, and turning Dandolo again at the ditch, rammed
the rowels into the horse's sides. But Dandolo would not jump yet. He stood with his fore feet
on the brink, and when Phineas with his whip struck him severely over the shoulders, he went
down into the ditch on all fours, and then scrambled back again to his former position. "What
an infernal brute!" said Phineas, gnashing his teeth.

"He is a little obstinate, Mr. Finn; I wonder whether he'd jump if I gave him a lead." But
Phineas was again making the attempt, urging the horse with spurs, whip, and voice. He had
brought himself now to that condition in which a man is utterly reckless as to falling himself,--or
even to the kind of fall he may get,--if he can only force his animal to make the attempt.
But Dandolo would not make the attempt. With ears down and head outstretched, he either stuck
obstinately on the brink, or allowed himself to be forced again and again into the ditch. "Let
me try it once, Mr. Finn," said Madame Goesler in her quiet way.

She was riding a small horse, very nearly thoroughbred, and known as a perfect hunter by those
who habitually saw Madame Goesler ride. No doubt he would have taken the fence readily enough
had his rider followed immediately after Lord Chiltern; but Dandolo had baulked at the fence
nearly a dozen times, and evil communications will corrupt good manners. Without any show of
violence, but still with persistent determination, Madame Goesler's horse also declined to
jump. She put him at it again and again, and he would make no slightest attempt to do his business.
Phineas raging, fuming, out of breath, miserably unhappy, shaking his reins, plying his whip,
rattling himself about in the saddle, and banging his legs against the horse's sides, again
and again plunged away at the obstacle. But it was all to no purpose. Dandolo was constantly
in the ditch, sometimes lying with his side against the bank, and had now been so hustled and
driven that, had he been on the other side, he would have had no breath left to carry his rider,
even in the ruck of the hunt. In the meantime the hounds and the leading horsemen were far
away,--never more to be seen on that day by either Phineas Finn or Madame Max Goesler. For
a while, during the frantic efforts that were made, an occasional tardy horseman was viewed
galloping along outside the covert, following the tracks of those who had gone before. But
before the frantic efforts had been abandoned as utterly useless every vestige of the morning's
work had left the neighbourhood of Broughton Spinnies, except these two unfortunate ones. At
last it was necessary that the defeat should be acknowledged. "We're beaten, Madame Goesler,"
said Phineas, almost in tears.

"Altogether beaten, Mr. Finn."

"I've a good mind to swear that I'll never come out hunting again."

"Swear what you like, if it will relieve you, only don't think of keeping such an oath. I've
known you before this to be depressed by circumstances quite as distressing as these, and to
be certain that all hope was over;--but yet you have recovered." This was the only allusion
she had yet made to their former acquaintance. "And now we must think of getting out of the wood."

"I haven't the slightest idea of the direction of anything."

"Nor have I; but as we clearly can't get out this way we might as well try the other. Come
along. We shall find somebody to put us in the right road. For my part I'm glad it is no worse.
I thought at one time that you were going to break your neck." They rode on for a few minutes
in silence, and then she spoke again. "Is it not odd, Mr. Finn, that after all that has come
and gone you and I should find ourselves riding about Broughton Spinnies together?"

CHAPTER XVII

Madame Goesler's Story

"After all that has come and gone, is it not odd that you and I should find ourselves riding
about Broughton Spinnies together?" That was the question which Madame Goesler asked Phineas
Finn when they had both agreed that it was impossible to jump over the bank out of the wood,
and it was, of course, necessary that some answer should be given to it.

"When I saw you last in London," said Phineas, with a voice that was gruff, and a manner that
was abrupt, "I certainly did not think that we should meet again so soon."

"No;--I left you as though I had grounds for quarrelling; but there was no quarrel. I wrote
to you, and tried to explain that."

"You did;--and though my answer was necessarily short, I was very grateful."

"And here you are back among us; and it does seem so odd. Lady Chiltern never told me that
I was to meet you."

"Nor did she tell me."

"It is better so, for otherwise I should not have come, and then, perhaps, you would have been
all alone in your discomfiture at the bank."

"That would have been very bad."

"You see I can be quite frank with you, Mr. Finn. I am heartily glad to see you, but I should
not have come had I been told. And when I did see you, it was quite improbable that we should
be thrown together as we are now,--was it not? Ah;--here is a man, and he can tell us the way
back to Copperhouse Cross. But I suppose we had better ask for Harrington Hall at once."

The man knew nothing at all about Harrington Hall, and very little about Copperhouse; but he
did direct them on to the road, and they found that they were about sixteen miles from Lord
Chiltern's house. The hounds had gone away in the direction of Trumpeton Wood, and it was agreed
that it would be useless to follow them. The waggonette had been left at an inn about two miles
from Copperhouse Cross, but they resolved to abandon that and to ride direct to Harrington
Hall. It was now nearly three o'clock, and they would not be subjected to the shame which falls
upon sportsmen who are seen riding home very early in the day. To get oneself lost before twelve,
and then to come home, is a very degrading thing; but at any time after two you may be supposed
to have ridden the run of the season, and to be returning after an excellent day's work.

Then Madame Goesler began to talk about herself, and to give a short history of her life during
the last two-and-a-half years. She did this in a frank natural manner, continuing her tale
in a low voice, as though it were almost a matter of course that she should make the recital
to so old a friend. And Phineas soon began to feel that it was natural that she should do so.
"It was just before you left us," she said, "that the Duke took to coming to my house." The
duke spoken of was the Duke of Omnium, and Phineas well remembered to have heard some rumours
about the Duke and Madame Max. It had been hinted to him that the Duke wanted to marry the
lady, but that rumour he had never believed. The reader, if he has duly studied the history
of the age, will know that the Duke did make an offer to Madame Goesler, pressing it with all
his eloquence, but that Madame Goesler, on mature consideration, thought it best to decline
to become a duchess. Of all this, however, the reader who understands Madame Goesler's character
will be quite sure that she did not say a word to Phineas Finn. Since the business had been
completed she had spoken of it to no one but to Lady Glencora Palliser, who had forced herself
into a knowledge of all the circumstances while they were being acted.

"I met the Duke once at Matching," said Phineas.

"I remember it well. I was there, and first made the Duke's acquaintance on that occasion.
I don't know how it was that we became intimate;--but we did, and then I formed a sort of friendship
with Lady Glencora; and somehow it has come about that we have been a great deal together since."

"I suppose you like Lady Glencora?"

"Very much indeed,--and the Duke, too. The truth is, Mr. Finn, that let one boast as one may
of one's independence,--and I very often do boast of mine to myself,--one is inclined to do
more for a Duke of Omnium than for a Mr. Jones."

"The Dukes have more to offer than the Joneses;--I don't mean in the way of wealth only, but
of what one enjoys most in society generally."

"I suppose they have. At any rate, I am glad that you should make some excuse for me. But I
do like the man. He is gracious and noble in his bearing. He is now very old, and sinking fast
into the grave; but even the wreck is noble."

"I don't know that he ever did much," said Phineas.

"I don't know that he ever did anything according to your idea of doing. There must be some
men who do nothing."

"But a man with his wealth and rank has opportunities so great! Look at his nephew!"

"No doubt Mr. Palliser is a great man. He never has a moment to speak to his wife or to anybody
else; and is always thinking so much about the country that I doubt if he knows anything about
his own affairs. Of course he is a man of a different stamp,--and of a higher stamp, if you
will. But I have an idea that such characters as those of the present Duke are necessary to
the maintenance of a great aristocracy. He has had the power of making the world believe in
him simply because he has been rich and a duke. His nephew, when he comes to the title, will
never receive a tithe of the respect that has been paid to this old fainéant."

"But he will achieve much more than ten times the reputation," said Phineas.

"I won't compare them, nor will I argue; but I like the Duke. Nay;--I love him. During the
last two years I have allowed the whole fashion of my life to be remodelled by this intimacy.
You knew what were my habits. I have only been in Vienna for one week since I last saw you,
and I have spent months and months at Matching."

"What do you do there?"

"Read to him;--talk to him;--give him his food, and do all that in me lies to make his life
bearable. Last year, when it was thought necessary that very distinguished people should be
entertained at the great family castle,--in Barsetshire, you know--"

"I have heard of the place."

"A regular treaty or agreement was drawn up. Conditions were sealed and signed. One condition
was that both Lady Glencora and I should be there. We put our heads together to try to avoid
this; as, of course, the Prince would not want to see me particularly,--and it was altogether
so grand an affair that things had to be weighed. But the Duke was inexorable. Lady Glencora
at such a time would have other things to do, and I must be there, or Gatherum Castle should
not be opened. I suggested whether I could not remain in the background and look after the
Duke as a kind of upper nurse,--but Lady Glencora said it would not do."

"Why should you subject yourself to such indignity?"

"Simply from love of the man. But you see I was not subjected. For two days I wore my jewels
beneath royal eyes,--eyes that will sooner or later belong to absolute majesty. It was an awful
bore, and I ought to have been at Vienna. You ask me why I did it. The fact is that things
sometimes become too strong for one, even when there is no real power of constraint. For years
past I have been used to have my own way, but when there came a question of the entertainment
of royalty I found myself reduced to blind obedience. I had to go to Gatherum Castle, to the
absolute neglect of my business; and I went."

"Do you still keep it up?"

"Oh, dear, yes. He is at Matching now, and I doubt whether he will ever leave it again. I shall
go there from here as a matter of course, and relieve guard with Lady Glencora."

"I don't see what you get for it all."

"Get;--what should I get? You don't believe in friendship, then?"

"Certainly I do;--but this friendship is so unequal. I can hardly understand that it should
have grown from personal liking on your side."

"I think it has," said Madame Goesler, slowly. "You see, Mr. Finn, that you as a young man
can hardly understand how natural it is that a young woman,--if I may call myself young,--should
minister to an old man."

"But there should be some bond to the old man."

"There is a bond."

"You must not be angry with me," said Phineas.

"I am not in the least angry."

"I should not venture to express any opinion, of course,--only that you ask me."

"I do ask you, and you are quite welcome to express your opinion. And were it not expressed,
I should know what you thought just the same. I have wondered at it myself sometimes,--that
I should have become as it were engulfed in this new life, almost without will of my own. And
when he dies, how shall I return to the other life? Of course I have the house in Park Lane
still, but my very maid talks of Matching as my home."

"How will it be when he has gone?"

"Ah,--how indeed? Lady Glencora and I will have to curtsey to each other, and there will be
an end of it. She will be a duchess then, and I shall no longer be wanted."

"But even if you were wanted--?"

"Oh, of course. It must last the Duke's time, and last no longer. It would not be a healthy
kind of life were it not that I do my very best to make the evening of his days pleasant for
him, and in that way to be of some service in the world. It has done me good to think that
I have in some small degree sacrificed myself. Let me see;--we are to turn here to the left.
That goes to Copperhouse Cross, no doubt. Is it not odd that I should have told you all this
history?"

"Just because this brute would not jump over the fence."

"I dare say I should have told you, even if he had jumped over; but certainly this has been
a great opportunity. Do you tell your friend Lord Chiltern not to abuse the poor Duke any more
before me. I dare say our host is all right in what he says; but I don't like it. You'll come
and see me in London, Mr. Finn?"

"But you'll be at Matching?"

"I do get a few days at home sometimes. You see I have escaped for the present,--or otherwise
you and I would not have come to grief together in Broughton Spinnies."

Soon after this they were overtaken by others who were returning home, and who had been more
fortunate than they in getting away with the hounds. The fox had gone straight for Trumpeton
Wood, not daring to try the gorse on the way, and then had been run to ground. Chiltern was
again in a towering passion, as the earths, he said, had been purposely left open. But on this
matter the men who had overtaken our friends were both of opinion that Chiltern was wrong.
He had allowed it to be understood that he would not draw Trumpeton Wood, and he had therefore
no right to expect that the earths should be stopped. But there were and had been various opinions
on this difficult point, as the laws of hunting are complex, recondite, numerous, traditional,
and not always perfectly understood. Perhaps the day may arrive in which they shall be codified
under the care of some great and laborious master of hounds.

"And they did nothing more?" asked Phineas.

"Yes;--they chopped another fox before they left the place,--so that in point of fact they
have drawn Trumpeton. But they didn't mean it."

When Madame Max Goesler and Phineas had reached Harrington Hall they were able to give their
own story of the day's sport to Lady Chiltern, as the remainder of the party had not as yet
returned.

CHAPTER XVIII

Spooner of Spoon Hall

Adelaide Palliser was a tall, fair girl, exquisitely made, with every feminine grace of motion,
highly born, and carrying always the warranty of her birth in her appearance; but with no special
loveliness of face. Let not any reader suppose that therefore she was plain. She possessed
much more than a sufficiency of charm to justify her friends in claiming her as a beauty, and
the demand had been generally allowed by public opinion. Adelaide Palliser was always spoken
of as a girl to be admired; but she was not one whose countenance would strike with special
admiration any beholder who did not know her. Her eyes were pleasant and bright, and, being
in truth green, might, perhaps with propriety, be described as grey. Her nose was well formed.
Her mouth was, perhaps, too small. Her teeth were perfect. Her chin was somewhat too long,
and was on this account the defective feature of her face. Her hair was brown and plentiful;
but in no way peculiar. No doubt she wore a chignon; but if so she wore it with the special
view of being in no degree remarkable in reference to her head-dress. Such as she was,--beauty
or no beauty--her own mind on the subject was made up, and she had resolved long since that
the gift of personal loveliness had not been bestowed upon her. And yet after a fashion she
was proud of her own appearance. She knew that she looked like a lady, and she knew also that
she had all that command of herself which health and strength can give to a woman when she
is without feminine affectation.

Lady Chiltern, in describing her to Phineas Finn, had said that she talked Italian, and wrote
for the Times. The former assertion was, no doubt, true, as Miss Palliser had passed some years
of her childhood in Florence; but the latter statement was made probably with reference to
her capability rather than her performance. Lady Chiltern intended to imply that Miss Palliser
was so much better educated than young ladies in general that she was able to express herself
intelligibly in her own language. She had been well educated, and would, no doubt, have done
the Times credit had the Times chosen to employ her.

She was the youngest daughter of the youngest brother of the existing Duke of Omnium, and the
first cousin, therefore, of Mr. Plantagenet Palliser, who was the eldest son of the second
brother. And as her mother had been a Bavilard there could be no better blood. But Adelaide
had been brought up so far away from the lofty Pallisers and lofty Bavilards as almost to have
lost the flavour of her birth. Her father and mother had died when she was an infant, and she
had gone to the custody of a much older half-sister, Mrs. Atterbury, whose mother had been
not a Bavilard, but a Brown. And Mr. Atterbury was a mere nobody, a rich, erudite, highly-accomplished
gentleman, whose father had made his money at the bar, and whose grandfather had been a country
clergyman. Mrs. Atterbury, with her husband, was still living at Florence; but Adelaide Palliser
had quarrelled with Florence life, and had gladly consented to make a long visit to her friend
Lady Chiltern.

In Florence she had met Gerard Maule, and the acquaintance had not been viewed with favour
by the Atterburys. Mrs. Atterbury knew the history of the Maule family, and declared to her
sister that no good could come from any intimacy. Old Mr. Maule, she said, was disreputable.
Mrs. Maule, the mother,--who, according to Mr. Atterbury, had been the only worthy member of
the family,--was long since dead. Gerard Maule's sister had gone away with an Irish cousin,
and they were now living in India on the professional income of a captain in a foot regiment.
Gerard Maule's younger brother had gone utterly to the dogs, and nobody knew anything about
him. Maule Abbey, the family seat in Herefordshire, was,--so said Mrs. Atterbury,--absolutely
in ruins. The furniture, as all the world knew, had been sold by the squire's creditors under
the sheriff's order ten years ago, and not a chair or a table had been put into the house since
that time. The property, which was small,--£2,000 a year at the outside,--was, no doubt, entailed
on the eldest son; and Gerard, fortunately, had a small fortune of his own, independent of
his father. But then he was also a spendthrift,--so said Mrs. Atterbury,--keeping a stable
full of horses, for which he could not afford to pay; and he was, moreover, the most insufferably
idle man who ever wandered about the world without any visible occupation for his hours. "But
he hunts," said Adelaide. "Do you call that an occupation?" asked Mrs. Atterbury with scorn.
Now Mrs. Atterbury painted pictures, copied Madonnas, composed sonatas, corresponded with learned
men in Rome, Berlin, and Boston, had been the intimate friend of Cavour, had paid a visit to
Garibaldi on his island with the view of explaining to him the real condition of Italy,--and
was supposed to understand Bismarck. Was it possible that a woman who so filled her own life
should accept hunting as a creditable employment for a young man, when it was admitted to be
his sole employment? And, moreover, she desired that her sister Adelaide should marry a certain
Count Brudi, who, according to her belief, had more advanced ideas about things in general
than any other living human being. Adelaide Palliser had determined that she would not marry
Count Brudi; had, indeed, almost determined that she would marry Gerard Maule, and had left
her brother-in-law's house in Florence after something like a quarrel. Mrs. Atterbury had declined
to authorise the visit to Harrington Hall, and then Adelaide had pleaded her age and independence.
She was her own mistress if she so chose to call herself, and would not, at any rate, remain
in Florence at the present moment to receive the attentions of Signor Brudi. Of the previous
winter she had passed three months with some relatives in England, and there she had learned
to ride to hounds, had first met Gerard Maule, and had made acquaintance with Lady Chiltern.
Gerard Maule had wandered to Italy after her, appearing at Florence in his desultory way, having
no definite purpose, not even that of asking Adelaide to be his wife,--but still pursuing her,
as though he wanted her without knowing what he wanted. In the course of the Spring, however,
he had proposed, and had been almost accepted. But Adelaide, though she would not yield to
her sister, had been frightened. She knew that she loved the man, and she swore to herself
a thousand times that she would not be dictated to by her sister;--but was she prepared to
accept the fate which would at once be hers were she now to marry Gerard Maule? What could
she do with a man who had no ideas of his own as to what he ought to do with himself?

Lady Chiltern was in favour of the marriage. The fortune, she said, was as much as Adelaide
was entitled to expect, the man was a gentleman, was tainted by no vices, and was truly in
love. "You had better let them fight it out somewhere else," Lord Chiltern had said when his
wife proposed that the invitation to Gerard Maule should be renewed; but Lady Chiltern had
known that if "fought out" at all, it must be fought out at Harrington Hall. "We have asked
him to come back," she said to Adelaide, "in order that you may make up your mind. If he chooses
to come, it will show that he is in earnest; and then you must take him, or make him understand
that he is not to be taken." Gerard Maule had chosen to come; but Adelaide Palliser had not
as yet quite made up her mind.

Perhaps there is nothing so generally remarkable in the conduct of young ladies in the phase
of life of which we are now speaking as the facility,--it may almost be said audacity,--with
which they do make up their minds. A young man seeks a young woman's hand in marriage, because
she has waltzed stoutly with him, and talked pleasantly between the dances;--and the young
woman gives it, almost with gratitude. As to the young man, the readiness of his action is
less marvellous than hers. He means to be master, and, by the very nature of the joint life
they propose to lead, must take her to his sphere of life, not bind himself to hers. If he
worked before he will work still. If he was idle before he will be idle still; and he probably
does in some sort make a calculation and strike a balance between his means and the proposed
additional burden of a wife and children. But she, knowing nothing, takes a monstrous leap
in the dark, in which everything is to be changed, and in which everything is trusted to chance.
Miss Palliser, however, differing in this from the majority of her friends and acquaintances,
frightened, perhaps by those representations of her sister to which she would not altogether
yield, had paused, and was still pausing. "Where should we go and live if I did marry him?"
she said to Lady Chiltern.

"I suppose he has an opinion of his own on that subject?"

"Not in the least, I should think."

"Has he never said anything about it?"

"Oh dear no. Matters have not got so far as that at all;--nor would they ever, out of his own
head. If we were married and taken away to the train he would only ask what place he should
take the tickets for when he got to the station."

"Couldn't you manage to live at Maule Abbey?"

"Perhaps we might; only there is no furniture, and, as I am told, only half a roof."

"It does seem to be absurd that you two should not make up your mind, just as other people
do," said Lady Chiltern. "Of course he is not a rich man, but you have known that all along."

"It is not a question of wealth or poverty, but of an utterly lack-a-daisical indifference
to everything in the world."

"He is not indifferent to you."

"That is the marvellous part of it," said Miss Palliser. This was said on the evening of the
famous day at Broughton Spinnies, and late on that night Lord Chiltern predicted to his wife
that another episode was about to occur in the life of their friend.

"What do you think Spooner has just asked me?"

"Permission to fight the Duke, or Mr. Palliser?"

"No,--it's nothing about the hunting. He wants to know if you'd mind his staying here three
or four days longer."

"What a very odd request!"

"It is odd, because he was to have gone to-morrow. I suppose there's no objection."

"Of course not if you like to have him."

"I don't like it a bit," said Lord Chiltern; "but I couldn't turn him out. And I know what
it means."

"What does it mean?"

"You haven't observed anything?"

"I have observed nothing in Mr. Spooner, except an awe-struck horror at the trapping of a fox."

"He's going to propose to Adelaide Palliser."

"Oswald! You are not in earnest."

"I believe he is. He would have told me if he thought I could give him the slightest encouragement.
You can't very well turn him out now."

"He'll get an answer that he won't like if he does," said Lady Chiltern.

Miss Palliser had ridden well on that day, and so had Gerard Maule. That Mr. Spooner should
ride well to hounds was quite a matter of course. It was the business of his life to do so,
and he did it with great judgment. He hated Maule's style of riding, considering it to be flashy,
injurious to hunting, and unsportsmanlike; and now he had come to hate the man. He had, of
course, perceived how close were the attentions paid by Mr. Maule to Miss Palliser, and he
thought that he perceived that Miss Palliser did not accept them with thorough satisfaction.
On his way back to Harrington Hall he made some inquiries, and was taught to believe that Mr.
Maule was not a man of very high standing in the world. Mr. Spooner himself had a very pretty
property of his own,--which was all his own. There was no doubt about his furniture, or about
the roof at Spoon Hall. He was Spooner of Spoon Hall, and had been High Sheriff for his county.
He was not so young as he once had been;--but he was still a young man, only just turned forty,
and was his own master in everything. He could read, and he always looked at the country newspaper;
but a book was a thing that he couldn't bear to handle. He didn't think he had ever seen a
girl sit a horse better than Adelaide Palliser sat hers, and a girl who rode as she did would
probably like a man addicted to hunting. Mr. Spooner knew that he understood hunting, whereas
that fellow Maule cared for nothing but jumping over flights of rails. He asked a few questions
that evening of Phineas Finn respecting Gerard Maule, but did not get much information. "I
don't know where he lives;" said Phineas; "I never saw him till I met him here."

"Don't you think he seems sweet upon that girl?"

"I shouldn't wonder if he is."

"She's an uncommonly clean-built young woman, isn't she?" said Mr. Spooner; "but it seems to
me she don't care much for Master Maule. Did you see how he was riding to-day?"

"I didn't see anything, Mr. Spooner."

"No, no; you didn't get away. I wish he'd been with you. But she went uncommon well." After
that he made his request to Lord Chiltern, and Lord Chiltern, with a foresight quite unusual
to him, predicted the coming event to his wife.

There was shooting on the following day, and Gerard Maule and Mr. Spooner were both out. Lunch
was sent down to the covert side, and the ladies walked down and joined the sportsmen. On this
occasion Mr. Spooner's assiduity was remarkable, and seemed to be accepted with kindly grace.
Adelaide even asked a question about Trumpeton Wood, and expressed an opinion that her cousin
was quite wrong because he did not take the matter up. "You know it's the keepers do it all,"
said Mr. Spooner, shaking his head with an appearance of great wisdom. "You never can have
foxes unless you keep your keepers well in hand. If they drew the Spoon Hall coverts blank
I'd dismiss my man the next day."

"It mightn't be his fault."

"He knows my mind, and he'll take care that there are foxes. They've been at my stick covert
three times this year, and put a brace out each time. A leash went from it last Monday week.
When a man really means a thing, Miss Palliser, he can pretty nearly always do it." Miss Palliser
replied with a smile that she thought that to be true, and Mr. Spooner was not slow at perceiving
that this afforded good encouragement to him in regard to that matter which was now weighing
most heavily upon his mind.

On the next day there was hunting again, and Phineas was mounted on a horse more amenable to
persuasion than old Dandolo. There was a fair run in the morning, and both Phineas and Madame
Max were carried well. The remarkable event in the day, however, was the riding of Dandolo
in the afternoon by Lord Chiltern himself. He had determined that the horse should go out,
and had sworn that he would ride him over a fence if he remained there making the attempt all
night. For two weary hours he did remain, with a groom behind him, spurring the brute against
a thick hedge, with a ditch at the other side of it, and at the end of the two hours he succeeded.
The horse at last made a buck leap and went over with a loud grunt. On his way home Lord Chiltern
sold the horse to a farmer for fifteen pounds;--and that was the end of Dandolo as far as the
Harrington Hall stables were concerned. This took place on the Friday, the 8th of February.
It was understood that Mr. Spooner was to return to Spoon Hall on Saturday, and on Monday,
the 11th, Phineas was to go to London. On the 12th the Session would begin, and he would once
more take his seat in Parliament.

"I give you my word and honour, Lady Chiltern," Gerard Maule said to his hostess, "I believe
that oaf of a man is making up to Adelaide." Mr. Maule had not been reticent about his love
towards Lady Chiltern, and came to her habitually in all his troubles.

"Chiltern has told me the same thing."

"No!"

"Why shouldn't he see it, as well as you? But I wouldn't believe it."

"Upon my word I believe it's true. But, Lady Chiltern--"

"Well, Mr. Maule."

"You know her so well."

"Adelaide, you mean?"

"You understand her thoroughly. There can't be anything in it; is there?"

"How anything?"

"She can't really--like him?"

"Mr. Maule, if I were to tell her that you had asked such a question as that I don't believe
that she'd ever speak a word to you again; and it would serve you right. Didn't you call him
an oaf?"

"I did."

"And how long has she known him?

"I don't believe she ever spoke to him before yesterday."

"And yet you think that she will be ready to accept this oaf as her husband to-morrow! Do you
call that respect?"

"Girls do such wonderful strange things. What an impudent ass he must be!"

"I don't see that at all. He may be an ass and yet not impudent, or impudent and yet not an
ass. Of course he has a right to speak his mind,--and she will have a right to speak hers."

CHAPTER XIX

Something Out of the Way

The Brake hounds went out four days a week, Monday, Wednesday, Friday, and Saturday; but the
hunting party on this Saturday was very small. None of the ladies joined in it, and when Lord
Chiltern came down to breakfast at half-past eight he met no one but Gerard Maule. "Where's
Spooner?" he asked. But neither Maule nor the servant could answer the question. Mr. Spooner
was a man who never missed a day from the beginning of cubbing to the end of the season, and
who, when April came, could give you an account of the death of every fox killed. Chiltern
cracked his eggs, and said nothing more for the moment, but Gerard Maule had his suspicions.
"He must be coming," said Maule; "suppose you send up to him." The servant was sent, and came
down with Mr. Spooner's compliments. Mr. Spooner didn't mean to hunt to-day. He had something
of a headache. He would see Lord Chiltern at the meet on Monday.

Maule immediately declared that neither would he hunt; but Lord Chiltern looked at him, and
he hesitated. "I don't care about your knowing," said Gerard.

"Oh,--I know. Don't you be an ass."

"I don't see why I should give him an opportunity."

"You're to go and pull your boots and breeches off because he has not put his on, and everybody
is to be told of it! Why shouldn't he have an opportunity, as you call it? If the opportunity
can do him any good, you may afford to be very indifferent."

"It's a piece of d---- impertinence," said Maule, with most unusual energy.

"Do you finish your breakfast, and come and get into the trap. We've twenty miles to go. You
can ask Spooner on Monday how he spent his morning."

At ten o'clock the ladies came down to breakfast, and the whole party were assembled. "Mr.
Spooner!" said Lady Chiltern to that gentleman, who was the last to enter the room. "This is
a marvel!" He was dressed in a dark-blue frock-coat, with a coloured silk handkerchief round
his neck, and had brushed his hair down close to his head. He looked quite unlike himself,
and would hardly have been known by those who had never seen him out of the hunting field.
In his dress clothes of an evening, or in his shooting coat, he was still himself. But in the
garb he wore on the present occasion he was quite unlike Spooner of Spoon Hall, whose only
pride in regard to clothes had hitherto been that he possessed more pairs of breeches than
any other man in the county. It was ascertained afterwards, when the circumstances came to
be investigated, that he had sent a man all the way across to Spoon Hall for that coat and
the coloured neck-handkerchief on the previous day; and some one, most maliciously, told the
story abroad. Lady Chiltern, however, always declared that her secrecy on the matter had always
been inviolable.

"Yes, Lady Chiltern; yes," said Mr. Spooner, as he took a seat at the table; "wonders never
cease, do they?" He had prepared himself even for this moment, and had determined to show Miss
Palliser that he could be sprightly and engaging even without his hunting habiliments.

"What will Lord Chiltern do without you?" one of the ladies asked.

"He'll have to do his best."

"He'll never kill a fox," said Miss Palliser.

"Oh, yes; he knows what he's about. I was so fond of my pillow this morning that I thought
I'd let the hunting slide for once. A man should not make a toil of his pleasure."

Lady Chiltern knew all about it, but Adelaide Palliser knew nothing. Madame Goesler, when she
observed the light-blue necktie, at once suspected the execution of some great intention. Phineas
was absorbed in his observation of the difference in the man. In his pink coat he always looked
as though he had been born to wear it, but his appearance was now that of an amateur actor
got up in a miscellaneous middle-age costume. He was sprightly, but the effort was painfully
visible. Lady Baldock said something afterwards, very ill-natured, about a hog in armour, and
old Mrs. Burnaby spoke the truth when she declared that all the comfort of her tea and toast
was sacrificed to Mr. Spooner's frock coat. But what was to be done with him when breakfast
was over? For a while he was fixed upon poor Phineas, with whom he walked across to the stables.
He seemed to feel that he could hardly hope to pounce upon his prey at once, and that he must
bide his time.

Out of the full heart the mouth speaks. "Nice girl, Miss Palliser," he said to Phineas, forgetting
that he had expressed himself nearly in the same way to the same man on a former occasion.

"Very nice, indeed. It seems to me that you are sweet upon her yourself."

"Who? I! Oh, no--I don't think of those sort of things. I suppose I shall marry some day. I've
a house fit for a lady to-morrow, from top to bottom, linen and all. And my property's my own."

"That's a comfort."

"I believe you. There isn't a mortgage on an acre of it, and that's what very few men can say.
As for Miss Palliser, I don't know that a man could do better; only I don't think much of those
things. If ever I do pop the question, I shall do it on the spur of the moment. There'll be
no preparation with me, nor yet any beating about the bush. 'Would it suit your views, my dear,
to be Mrs. Spooner?' that's about the long and the short of it. A clean-made little mare, isn't
she?" This last observation did not refer to Adelaide Palliser, but to an animal standing in
Lord Chiltern's stables. "He bought her from Charlie Dickers for a twenty pound note last April.
The mare hadn't a leg to stand upon. Charlie had been stagging with her for the last two months,
and knocked her all to pieces. She's a screw, of course, but there isn't anything carries Chiltern
so well. There's nothing like a good screw. A man'll often go with two hundred and fifty guineas
between his legs, supposed to be all there because the animal's sound, and yet he don't know
his work. If you like schooling a young 'un, that's all very well. I used to be fond of it
myself; but I've come to feel that being carried to hounds without much thinking about it is
the cream of hunting, after all. I wonder what the ladies are at? Shall we go back and see?"
Then they turned to the house, and Mr. Spooner began to be a little fidgety. "Do they sit altogether
mostly all the morning?"

"I fancy they do."

"I suppose there's some way of dividing them. They tell me you know all about women. If you
want to get one to yourself, how do you manage it?"

"In perpetuity, do you mean, Mr. Spooner?"

"Any way;--in the morning, you know."

"Just to say a few words to her?"

"Exactly that;--just to say a few words. I don't mind asking you, because you've done this
kind of thing before."

"I should watch my opportunity," said Phineas, remembering a period of his life in which he
had watched much and had found it very difficult to get an opportunity.

"But I must go after lunch," said Mr. Spooner; "I'm expected home to dinner, and I don't know
much whether they'll like me to stop over Sunday."

"If you were to tell Lady Chiltern--"

"I was to have gone on Thursday, you know. You won't tell anybody?"

"Oh dear no."

"I think I shall propose to that girl. I've about made up my mind to do it, only a fellow can't
call her out before half a dozen of them. Couldn't you get Lady C. to trot her out into the
garden? You and she are as thick as thieves."

"I should think Miss Palliser was rather difficult to be managed."

Phineas declined to interfere, taking upon himself to assure Mr. Spooner that attempts to arrange
matters in that way never succeeded. He went in and settled himself to the work of answering
correspondents at Tankerville, while Mr. Spooner hung about the drawing-room, hoping that circumstances
and time might favour him. It is to be feared that he made himself extremely disagreeable to
poor Lady Chiltern, to whom he was intending to open his heart could he only find an opportunity
for so much as that. But Lady Chiltern was determined not to have his confidence, and at last
withdrew from the scene in order that she might not be entrapped. Before lunch had come all
the party knew what was to happen,--except Adelaide herself. She, too, perceived that something
was in the wind, that there was some stir, some discomfort, some secret affair forward, or
some event expected which made them all uneasy;--and she did connect it with the presence of
Mr. Spooner. But, in pitiable ignorance of the facts that were clear enough to everybody else,
she went on watching and wondering, with a half-formed idea that the house would be more pleasant
as soon as Mr. Spooner should have taken his departure. He was to go after lunch. But on such
occasions there is, of course, a latitude, and "after lunch" may be stretched at any rate to
the five o'clock tea. At three o'clock Mr. Spooner was still hanging about. Madame Goesler
and Phineas, with an openly declared intention of friendly intercourse, had gone out to walk
together. Lord and Lady Baldock were on horseback. Two or three old ladies hung over the fire
and gossiped. Lady Chiltern had retired to her baby;--when on a sudden Adelaide Palliser declared
her intention of walking into the village. "Might I accompany you, Miss Palliser?" said Mr.
Spooner; "I want a walk above all things." He was very brave, and persevered though it was
manifest that the lady did not desire his company. Adelaide said something about an old woman
whom she intended to visit; whereupon Mr. Spooner declared that visiting old women was the
delight of his life. He would undertake to give half a sovereign to the old woman if Miss Palliser
would allow him to come. He was very brave, and persevered in such a fashion that he carried
his point. Lady Chiltern from her nursery window saw them start through the shrubbery together.

"I have been waiting for this opportunity all the morning," said Mr. Spooner, gallantly.

But in spite of his gallantry, and although she had known, almost from breakfast time, that
he had been waiting for something, still she did not suspect his purpose. It has been said
that Mr. Spooner was still young, being barely over forty years of age; but he had unfortunately
appeared to be old to Miss Palliser. To himself it seemed as though the fountains of youth
were still running through all his veins. Though he had given up schooling young horses, he
could ride as hard as ever. He could shoot all day. He could take "his whack of wine," as he
called it, sit up smoking half the night, and be on horseback the next morning after an early
breakfast without the slightest feeling of fatigue. He was a red-faced little man, with broad
shoulders, clean shaven, with small eyes, and a nose on which incipient pimples began to show
themselves. To himself and the comrades of his life he was almost as young as he had ever been;
but the young ladies of the county called him Old Spooner, and regarded him as a permanent
assistant unpaid huntsman to the Brake hounds. It was not within the compass of Miss Palliser's
imagination to conceive that this man should intend to propose himself to her as her lover.

"I have been waiting for this opportunity all the morning," said Mr. Spooner. Adelaide Palliser
turned round and looked at him, still understanding nothing. Ride at any fence hard enough,
and the chances are you'll get over. The harder you ride the heavier the fall, if you get a
fall; but the greater the chance of your getting over. This had been a precept in the life
of Mr. Spooner, verified by much experience, and he had resolved that he would be guided by
it on this occasion. "Ever since I first saw you, Miss Palliser, I have been so much taken
by you that,--that,--in point of fact, I love you better than all the women in the world I
ever saw; and will you,--will you be Mrs. Spooner?"

He had at any rate ridden hard at his fence. There had been no craning,--no looking about for
an easy place, no hesitation as he brought his horse up to it. No man ever rode straighter
than he did on this occasion. Adelaide stopped short on the path, and he stood opposite to
her, with his fingers inserted between the closed buttons of his frock-coat. "Mr. Spooner!"
exclaimed Adelaide.

"I am quite in earnest, Miss Palliser; no man ever was more in earnest. I can offer you a comfortable
well-furnished home, an undivided heart, a good settlement, and no embarrassment on the property.
I'm fond of a country life myself, but I'll adapt myself to you in everything reasonable."

"You are mistaken, Mr. Spooner; you are indeed."

"How mistaken?"

"I mean that it is altogether out of the question. You have surprised me so much that I couldn't
stop you sooner; but pray do not speak of it again."

"It is a little sudden, but what is a man to do? If you will only think of it--"

"I can't think of it at all. There is no need for thinking. Really, Mr. Spooner, I can't go
on with you. If you wouldn't mind turning back I'll walk into the village by myself." Mr. Spooner,
however, did not seem inclined to obey this injunction, and stood his ground, and, when she
moved on, walked on beside her. "I must insist on being left alone," she said.

"I haven't done anything out of the way," said the lover.

"I think it's very much out of the way. I have hardly ever spoken to you before. If you will
only leave me now there shall not be a word more said about it."

But Mr. Spooner was a man of spirit. "I'm not in the least ashamed of what I've done," he said.

"But you might as well go away, when it can't be of any use."

"I don't know why it shouldn't be of use. Miss Palliser, I'm a man of good property. My great-great-grandfather
lived at Spoon Hall, and we've been there ever since. My mother was one of the Platters of
Platter House. I don't see that I've done anything out of the way. As for shilly-shallying,
and hanging about, I never knew any good come from it. Don't let us quarrel, Miss Palliser.
Say that you'll take a week to think of it."

"But I won't think of it at all; and I won't go on walking with you. If you'll go one way,
Mr. Spooner, I'll go the other."

Then Mr. Spooner waxed angry. "Why am I to be treated with disdain?" he said.

"I don't want to treat you with disdain. I only want you to go away."

"You seem to think that I'm something,--something altogether beneath you."

And so in truth she did. Miss Palliser had never analysed her own feelings and emotions about
the Spooners whom she met in society; but she probably conceived that there were people in
the world who, from certain accidents, were accustomed to sit at dinner with her, but who were
no more fitted for her intimacy than were the servants who waited upon her. Such people were
to her little more than the tables and chairs with which she was brought in contact. They were
persons with whom it seemed to her to be impossible that she should have anything in common,--who
were her inferiors, as completely as were the menials around her. Why she should thus despise
Mr. Spooner, while in her heart of hearts she loved Gerard Maule, it would be difficult to
explain. It was not simply an affair of age,--nor of good looks, nor altogether of education.
Gerard Maule was by no means wonderfully erudite. They were both addicted to hunting. Neither
of them did anything useful. In that respect Mr. Spooner stood the higher, as he managed his
own property successfully. But Gerard Maule so wore his clothes, and so carried his limbs,
and so pronounced his words that he was to be regarded as one entitled to make love to any
lady; whereas poor Mr. Spooner was not justified in proposing to marry any woman much more
gifted than his own housemaid. Such, at least, were Adelaide Palliser's ideas. "I don't think
anything of the kind," she said, "only I want you to go away. I shall go back to the house,
and I hope you won't accompany me. If you do, I shall turn the other way." Whereupon she did
retire at once, and he was left standing in the path.

There was a seat there, and he sat down for a moment to think of it all. Should he persevere
in his suit, or should he rejoice that he had escaped from such an ill-conditioned minx? He
remembered that he had read, in his younger days, that lovers in novels generally do persevere,
and that they are almost always successful at last. In affairs of the heart, such perseverance
was, he thought, the correct thing. But in this instance the conduct of the lady had not given
him the slightest encouragement. When a horse balked with him at a fence, it was his habit
to force the animal till he jumped it,--as the groom had recommended Phineas to do. But when
he had encountered a decided fall, it was not sensible practice to ride the horse at the same
place again. There was probably some occult cause for failure. He could not but own that he
had been thrown on the present occasion,--and upon the whole, he thought that he had better
give it up. He found his way back to the house, put up his things, and got away to Spoon Hall
in time for dinner, without seeing Lady Chiltern or any of her guests.

"What has become of Mr. Spooner?" Maule asked, as soon as he returned to Harrington Hall.

"Nobody knows," said Lady Chiltern, "but I believe he has gone."

"Has anything happened?"

"I have heard no tidings; but, if you ask for my opinion, I think something has happened. A
certain lady seems to have been ruffled, and a certain gentleman has disappeared. I am inclined
to think that a few unsuccessful words have been spoken." Gerard Maule saw that there was a
smile in her eye, and he was satisfied.

"My dear, what did Mr. Spooner say to you during his walk?" This question was asked by the
ill-natured old lady in the presence of nearly all the party.

"We were talking of hunting," said Adelaide.

"And did the poor old woman get her half-sovereign?"

"No;--he forgot that. We did not go into the village at all. I was tired and came back."

"Poor old woman;--and poor Mr. Spooner!"

Everybody in the house knew what had occurred, as Mr. Spooner's discretion in the conduct of
this affair had not been equal to his valour; but Miss Palliser never confessed openly, and
almost taught herself to believe that the man had been mad or dreaming during that special hour.

CHAPTER XX

Phineas Again in London

Phineas, on his return to London, before he had taken his seat in the House, received the following
letter from Lady Laura Kennedy:--

   Dresden, Feb. 8, 1870.

   DEAR FRIEND,--

   I thought that perhaps you would have written to me from
   Harrington. Violet has told me of the meeting between you
   and Madame Goesler, and says that the old friendship seems
   to have been perfectly re-established. She used to think
   once that there might be more than friendship, but I
   never quite believed that. She tells me that Chiltern is
   quarrelling with the Pallisers. You ought not to let him
   quarrel with people. I know that he would listen to you.
   He always did.

   I write now especially because I have just received so
   dreadful a letter from Mr. Kennedy! I would send it you
   were it not that there are in it a few words which on his
   behalf I shrink from showing even to you. It is full of
   threats. He begins by quotations from the Scriptures, and
   from the Prayer-Book, to show that a wife has no right to
   leave her husband,--and then he goes on to the law. One
   knows all that of course. And then he asks whether he ever
   ill-used me? Was he ever false to me? Do I think, that
   were I to choose to submit the matter to the iniquitous
   practices of the present Divorce Court, I could prove
   anything against him by which even that low earthly
   judge would be justified in taking from him his marital
   authority? And if not,--have I no conscience? Can I
   reconcile it to myself to make his life utterly desolate
   and wretched simply because duties which I took upon
   myself at my marriage have become distasteful to me?

   These questions would be very hard to answer, were there
   not other questions that I could ask. Of course I was
   wrong to marry him. I know that now, and I repent my sin
   in sackcloth and ashes. But I did not leave him after
   I married him till he had brought against me horrid
   accusations,--accusations which a woman could not bear,
   which, if he believed them himself, must have made it
   impossible for him to live with me. Could any wife live
   with a husband who declared to her face that he believed
   that she had a lover? And in this very letter he says that
   which almost repeats the accusation. He has asked me how I
   can have dared to receive you, and desires me never either
   to see you or to wish to see you again. And yet he sent
   for you to Loughlinter before you came, in order that you
   might act as a friend between us. How could I possibly
   return to a man whose power of judgment has so absolutely
   left him?

   I have a conscience in the matter, a conscience that
   is very far from being at ease. I have done wrong, and
   have shipwrecked every hope in this world. No woman was
   ever more severely punished. My life is a burden to me,
   and I may truly say that I look for no peace this side
   the grave. I am conscious, too, of continued sin,--a
   sin unlike other sins,--not to be avoided, of daily
   occurrence, a sin which weighs me to the ground. But I
   should not sin the less were I to return to him. Of course
   he can plead his marriage. The thing is done. But it can't
   be right that a woman should pretend to love a man whom
   she loathes. I couldn't live with him. If it were simply
   to go and die, so that his pride would be gratified by my
   return, I would do it; but I should not die. There would
   come some horrid scene, and I should be no more a wife to
   him than I am while living here.

   He now threatens me with publicity. He declares that
   unless I return to him he will put into some of the papers
   a statement of the whole case. Of course this would be
   very bad. To be obscure and untalked of is all the comfort
   that now remains to me. And he might say things that would
   be prejudicial to others,--especially to you. Could this
   in any way be prevented? I suppose the papers would
   publish anything; and you know how greedily people will
   read slander about those whose names are in any way
   remarkable. In my heart I believe he is insane; but it is
   very hard that one's privacy should be at the mercy of a
   madman. He says that he can get an order from the Court of
   Queen's Bench which will oblige the judges in Saxony to
   send me back to England in the custody of the police, but
   that I do not believe. I had the opinion of Sir Gregory
   Grogram before I came away, and he told me that it was not
   so. I do not fear his power over my person, while I remain
   here, but that the matter should be dragged forward before
   the public.

   I have not answered him yet, nor have I shown his letter
   to Papa. I hardly liked to tell you when you were here,
   but I almost fear to talk to Papa about it. He never urges
   me to go back, but I know that he wishes that I should do
   so. He has ideas about money, which seem singular to me,
   knowing, as I do, how very generous he has been himself.
   When I married, my fortune, as you knew, had been just
   used in paying Chiltern's debts. Mr. Kennedy had declared
   himself to be quite indifferent about it, though the sum
   was large. The whole thing was explained to him, and he
   was satisfied. Before a year was over he complained to
   Papa, and then Papa and Chiltern together raised the
   money,--£40,000,--and it was paid to Mr. Kennedy. He
   has written more than once to Papa's lawyer to say that,
   though the money is altogether useless to him, he will not
   return a penny of it, because by doing so he would seem
   to abandon his rights. Nobody has asked him to return it.
   Nobody has asked him to defray a penny on my account since
   I left him. But Papa continues to say that the money
   should not be lost to the family. I cannot, however,
   return to such a husband for the sake of £40,000. Papa is
   very angry about the money, because he says that if it had
   been paid in the usual way at my marriage, settlements
   would have been required that it should come back to the
   family after Mr. Kennedy's death in the event of my having
   no child. But, as it is now, the money would go to his
   estate after my death. I don't understand why it should be
   so, but Papa is always harping upon it, and declaring that
   Mr. Kennedy's pretended generosity has robbed us all. Papa
   thinks that were I to return this could be arranged; but
   I could not go back to him for such a reason. What does
   it matter? Chiltern and Violet will have enough; and of
   what use would it be to such a one as I am to have a sum
   of money to leave behind me? I should leave it to your
   children, Phineas, and not to Chiltern's.

   He bids me neither see you nor write to you,--but how can
   I obey a man whom I believe to be mad? And when I will not
   obey him in the greater matter by returning to him it
   would be absurd were I to attempt to obey him in smaller
   details. I don't suppose I shall see you very often. His
   letter has, at any rate, made me feel that it would be
   impossible for me to return to England, and it is not
   likely that you will soon come here again. I will not even
   ask you to do so, though your presence gave a brightness
   to my life for a few days which nothing else could have
   produced. But when the lamp for a while burns with special
   brightness there always comes afterwards a corresponding
   dullness. I had to pay for your visit, and for the comfort
   of my confession to you at Königstein. I was determined
   that you should know it all; but, having told you, I do
   not want to see you again. As for writing, he shall not
   deprive me of the consolation,--nor I trust will you.

   Do you think that I should answer his letter, or will it
   be better that I should show it to Papa? I am very averse
   to doing this, as I have explained to you; but I would do
   so if I thought that Mr. Kennedy really intended to act
   upon his threats. I will not conceal from you that it
   would go nigh to kill me if my name were dragged through
   the papers. Can anything be done to prevent it? If he were
   known to be mad of course the papers would not publish his
   statements; but I suppose that if he were to send a letter
   from Loughlinter with his name to it they would print it.
   It would be very, very cruel.

   God bless you. I need not say how faithfully I am

   Your friend,

   L. K.

This letter was addressed to Phineas at his club, and there he received it on the evening before
the meeting of Parliament. He sat up for nearly an hour thinking of it after he read it. He
must answer it at once. That was a matter of course. But he could give her no advice that would
be of any service to her. He was, indeed, of all men the least fitted to give her counsel in
her present emergency. It seemed to him that as she was safe from any attack on her person,
she need only remain at Dresden, answering his letter by what softest negatives she could use.
It was clear to him that in his present condition she could take no steps whatever in regard
to the money. That must be left to his conscience, to time, and to chance. As to the threat
of publicity, the probability, he thought, was that it would lead to nothing. He doubted whether
any respectable newspaper would insert such a statement as that suggested. Were it published,
the evil must be borne. No diligence on her part, or on the part of her lawyers, could prevent it.

But what had she meant when she wrote of continual sin, sin not to be avoided, of sin repeated
daily which nevertheless weighed her to the ground? Was it expected of him that he should answer
that portion of her letter? It amounted to a passionate renewal of that declaration of affection
for himself which she had made at Königstein, and which had pervaded her whole life since some
period antecedent to her wretched marriage. Phineas, as he thought of it, tried to analyse
the nature of such a love. He also, in those old days, had loved her, and had at once resolved
that he must tell her so, though his hopes of success had been poor indeed. He had taken the
first opportunity, and had declared his purpose. She, with the imperturbable serenity of a
matured kind-hearted woman, had patted him on the back, as it were, as she told him of her
existing engagement with Mr. Kennedy. Could it be that at that moment she could have loved
him as she now said she did, and that she should have been so cold, so calm, and so kind; while,
at that very moment, this coldness, calmness, and kindness was but a thin crust over so strong
a passion? How different had been his own love! He had been neither calm nor kind. He had felt
himself for a day or two to be so terribly knocked about that the world was nothing to him.
For a month or two he had regarded himself as a man peculiarly circumstanced,--marked for misfortune
and for a solitary life. Then he had retricked his beams, and before twelve months were passed
had almost forgotten his love. He knew now, or thought that he knew,--that the continued indulgence
of a hopeless passion was a folly opposed to the very instincts of man and woman,--a weakness
showing want of fibre and of muscle in the character. But here was a woman who could calmly
conceal her passion in its early days and marry a man whom she did not love in spite of it,
who could make her heart, her feelings, and all her feminine delicacy subordinate to material
considerations, and nevertheless could not rid herself of her passion in the course of years,
although she felt its existence to be an intolerable burden on her conscience. On which side
lay strength of character and on which side weakness? Was he strong or was she?

And he tried to examine his own feelings in regard to her. The thing was so long ago that she
was to him as some aunt, or sister, so much the elder as to be almost venerable. He acknowledged
to himself a feeling which made it incumbent upon him to spend himself in her service, could
he serve her by any work of his. He was,--or would be, devoted to her. He owed her a never-dying
gratitude. But were she free to marry again to-morrow, he knew that he could not marry her.
She herself had said the same thing. She had said that she would be his sister. She had specially
required of him that he should make known to her his wife, should he ever marry again. She
had declared that she was incapable of further jealousy;--and yet she now told him of daily
sin of which her conscience could not assoil itself.

"Phineas," said a voice close to his ears, "are you repenting your sins?"

"Oh, certainly;--what sins?"

It was Barrington Erle. "You know that we are going to do nothing to-morrow," continued he.

"So I am told."

"We shall let the Address pass almost without a word. Gresham will simply express his determination
to oppose the Church Bill to the knife. He means to be very plain-spoken about it. Whatever
may be the merits of the Bill, it must be regarded as an unconstitutional effort to retain
power in the hands of the minority, coming from such hands as those of Mr. Daubeny. I take
it he will go at length into the question of majorities, and show how inexpedient it is on
behalf of the nation that any Ministry should remain in power who cannot command a majority
in the House on ordinary questions. I don't know whether he will do that to-morrow or at the
second reading of the Bill."

"I quite agree with him."

"Of course you do. Everybody agrees with him. No gentleman can have a doubt on the subject.
Personally, I hate the idea of Church Reform. Dear old Mildmay, who taught me all I know, hates
it too. But Mr. Gresham is the head of our party now, and much as I may differ from him on
many things, I am bound to follow him. If he proposes Church Reform in my time, or anything
else, I shall support him."

"I know those are your ideas."

"Of course they are. There are no other ideas on which things can be made to work. Were it
not that men get drilled into it by the force of circumstances any government in this country
would be impossible. Were it not so, what should we come to? The Queen would find herself justified
in keeping in any set of Ministers who could get her favour, and ambitious men would prevail
without any support from the country. The Queen must submit to dictation from some quarter."

"She must submit to advice, certainly."

"Don't cavil at a word when you know it to be true," said Barrington, energetically. "The constitution
of the country requires that she should submit to dictation. Can it come safely from any other
quarter than that of a majority of the House of Commons?"

"I think not."

"We are all agreed about that. Not a single man in either House would dare to deny it. And
if it be so, what man in his senses can think of running counter to the party which he believes
to be right in its general views? A man so burthened with scruples as to be unable to act in
this way should keep himself aloof from public life. Such a one cannot serve the country in
Parliament, though he may possibly do so with pen and ink in his closet."

"I wonder then that you should have asked me to come forward again after what I did about the
Irish land question," said Phineas.

"A first fault may be forgiven when the sinner has in other respects been useful. The long
and the short of it is that you must vote with us against Daubeny's bill. Browborough sees
it plainly enough. He supported his chief in the teeth of all his protestations at Tankerville."

"I am not Browborough."

"Nor half so good a man if you desert us," said Barrington Erle, with anger.

"I say nothing about that. He has his ideas of duty, and I have mine. But I will go so far
as this. I have not yet made up my mind. I shall ask advice; but you must not quarrel with
me if I say that I must seek it from some one who is less distinctly a partisan than you are."

"From Monk?"

"Yes;--from Mr. Monk. I do think it will be bad for the country that this measure should come
from the hands of Mr. Daubeny."

"Then why the d---- should you support it, and oppose your own party at the same time? After
that you can't do it. Well, Ratler, my guide and philosopher, how is it going to be?"

Mr. Ratler had joined them, but was still standing before the seat they occupied, not condescending
to sit down in amicable intercourse with a man as to whom he did not yet know whether to regard
him as a friend or foe. "We shall be very quiet for the next month or six weeks," said Ratler.

"And then?" asked Phineas.

"Well, then it will depend on what may be the number of a few insane men who never ought to
have seats in the House."

"Such as Mr. Monk and Mr. Turnbull?" Now it was well known that both those gentlemen, who were
recognised as leading men, were strong Radicals, and it was supposed that they both would support
any bill, come whence it might, which would separate Church and State.

"Such as Mr. Monk," said Ratler. "I will grant that Turnbull may be an exception. It is his
business to go in for everything in the way of agitation, and he at any rate is consistent.
But when a man has once been in office,--why then--"

"When he has taken the shilling?" said Phineas. "Just so. I confess I do not like a deserter."

"Phineas will be all right," said Barrington Erle.

"I hope so," said Mr. Ratler, as he passed on.

"Ratler and I run very much in the same groove," said Barrington, "but I fancy there is some
little difference in the motive power."

"Ratler wants place."

"And so do I."

"He wants it just as most men want professional success," said Phineas. "But if I understand
your object, it is chiefly the maintenance of the old-established political power of the Whigs.
You believe in families?"

"I do believe in the patriotism of certain families. I believe that the Mildmays, FitzHowards,
and Pallisers have for some centuries brought up their children to regard the well-being of
their country as their highest personal interest, and that such teaching has been generally
efficacious. Of course, there have been failures. Every child won't learn its lesson however
well it may be taught. But the school in which good training is most practised will, as a rule,
turn out the best scholars. In this way I believe in families. You have come in for some of
the teaching, and I expect to see you a scholar yet."

The House met on the following day, and the Address was moved and seconded; but there was no
debate. There was not even a full House. The same ceremony had taken place so short a time
previously, that the whole affair was flat and uninteresting. It was understood that nothing
would in fact be done. Mr. Gresham, as leader of his side of the House, confined himself to
asserting that he should give his firmest opposition to the proposed measure, which was, it
seemed, so popular with the gentlemen who sat on the other side, and who supported the so-called
Conservative Government of the day. His reasons for doing so had been stated very lately, and
must unfortunately be repeated very soon, and he would not, therefore, now trouble the House
with them. He did not on this occasion explain his ideas as to majorities, and the Address
was carried by seven o'clock in the evening. Mr. Daubeny named a day a month hence for the
first reading of his bill, and was asked the cause of the delay by some member on a back bench.
"Because it cannot be ready sooner," said Mr. Daubeny. "When the honourable gentleman has achieved
a position which will throw upon him the responsibility of bringing forward some great measure
for the benefit of his country, he will probably find it expedient to devote some little time
to details. If he do not, he will be less anxious to avoid attack than I am." A Minister can
always give a reason; and, if he be clever, he can generally when doing so punish the man who
asks for it. The punishing of an influential enemy is an indiscretion; but an obscure questioner
may often be crushed with good effect.

Mr. Monk's advice to Phineas was both simple and agreeable. He intended to support Mr. Gresham,
and of course counselled his friend to do the same.

"But you supported Mr. Daubeny on the Address before Christmas," said Phineas.

"And shall therefore be bound to explain why I oppose him now;--but the task will not be difficult.
The Queen's speech to Parliament was in my judgment right, and therefore I concurred in the
Address. But I certainly cannot trust Mr. Daubeny with Church Reform. I do not know that many
will make the same distinction, but I shall do so."

Phineas soon found himself sitting in the House as though he had never left it. His absence
had not been long enough to make the place feel strange to him. He was on his legs before a
fortnight was over asking some question of some Minister, and of course insinuating as he did
so that the Minister in question had been guilty of some enormity of omission or commission.
It all came back upon him as though he had been born to the very manner. And as it became known
to the Ratlers that he meant to vote right on the great coming question,--to vote right and
to speak right in spite of his doings at Tankerville,--everybody was civil to him. Mr. Bonteen
did express an opinion to Mr. Ratler that it was quite impossible that Phineas Finn should
ever again accept office, as of course the Tankervillians would never replace him in his seat
after manifest apostasy to his pledge; but Mr. Ratler seemed to think very little of that.
"They won't remember, Lord bless you;--and then he's one of those fellows that always get in
somewhere. He's not a man I particularly like; but you'll always see him in the House;--up
and down, you know. When a fellow begins early, and has got it in him, it's hard to shake him
off." And thus even Mr. Ratler was civil to our hero.

Lady Laura Kennedy's letter had, of course, been answered,--not without very great difficulty.
"My dear Laura," he had begun,--for the first time in his life. She had told him to treat her
as a brother would do, and he thought it best to comply with her instructions. But beyond that,
till he declared himself at the end to be hers affectionately, he made no further protestation
of affection. He made no allusion to that sin which weighed so heavily on her, but answered
all her questions. He advised her to remain at Dresden. He assured her that no power could
be used to enforce her return. He expressed his belief that Mr. Kennedy would abstain from
making any public statement, but suggested that if any were made the answering of it should
be left to the family lawyer. In regard to the money, he thought it impossible that any step
should be taken. He then told her all there was to tell of Lord and Lady Chiltern, and something
also of himself. When the letter was written he found that it was cold and almost constrained.
To his own ears it did not sound like the hearty letter of a generous friend. It savoured of
the caution with which it had been prepared. But what could he do? Would he not sin against
her and increase her difficulties if he addressed her with warm affection? Were he to say a
word that ought not to be addressed to any woman he might do her an irreparable injury; and
yet the tone of his own letter was odious to him.

CHAPTER XXI

Mr. Maule, Senior

The life of Mr. Maurice Maule, of Maule Abbey, the father of Gerard Maule, had certainly not
been prosperous. He had from his boyhood enjoyed a reputation for cleverness, and at school
had done great things,--winning prizes, spouting speeches on Speech days, playing in elevens,
and looking always handsome. He had been one of those show boys of which two or three are generally
to be found at our great schools, and all manner of good things had been prophesied on his
behalf. He had been in love before he was eighteen, and very nearly succeeded in running away
with the young lady before he went to college. His father had died when he was an infant, so
that at twenty-one he was thought to be in possession of comfortable wealth. At Oxford he was
considered to have got into a good set,--men of fashion who were also given to talking of books,--who
spent money, read poetry, and had opinions of their own respecting the Tracts and Mr. Newman.
He took his degree, and then started himself in the world upon that career which is of all
the most difficult to follow with respect and self-comfort. He proposed to himself the life
of an idle man with a moderate income,--a life which should be luxurious, refined, and graceful,
but to which should be attached the burden of no necessary occupation. His small estate gave
him but little to do, as he would not farm any portion of his own acres. He became a magistrate
in his county; but he would not interest himself with the price of a good yoke of bullocks,
as did Mr. Justice Shallow,--nor did he ever care how a score of ewes went at any fair. There
is no harder life than this. Here and there we may find a man who has so trained himself that
day after day he can devote his mind without compulsion to healthy pursuits, who can induce
himself to work, though work be not required from him for any ostensible object, who can save
himself from the curse of misusing his time, though he has for it no defined and necessary
use; but such men are few, and are made of better metal than was Mr. Maule. He became an idler,
a man of luxury, and then a spendthrift. He was now hardly beyond middle life, and he assumed
for himself the character of a man of taste. He loved music, and pictures, and books, and pretty
women. He loved also good eating and drinking; but conceived of himself that in his love for
them he was an artist, and not a glutton. He had married early, and his wife had died soon.
He had not given himself up with any special zeal to the education of his children, nor to
the preservation of his property. The result of his indifference has been told in a previous
chapter. His house was deserted, and his children were scattered about the world. His eldest
son, having means of his own, was living an idle, desultory life, hardly with prospects of
better success than had attended his father.

Mr. Maule was now something about fifty-five years of age, and almost considered himself young.
He lived in chambers on a flat in Westminster, and belonged to two excellent clubs. He had
not been near his property for the last ten years, and as he was addicted to no country sport
there were ten weeks in the year which were terrible to him. From the middle of August to the
end of October for him there was no whist, no society,--it may almost be said no dinner. He
had tried going to the seaside; he had tried going to Paris; he had endeavoured to enjoy Switzerland
and the Italian lakes;--but all had failed, and he had acknowledged to himself that this sad
period of the year must always be endured without relaxation, and without comfort.

Of his children he now took but little notice. His daughter was married and in India. His younger
son had disappeared, and the father was perhaps thankful that he was thus saved from trouble.
With his elder son he did maintain some amicable intercourse, but it was very slight in its
nature. They never corresponded unless the one had something special to say to the other. They
had no recognised ground for meeting. They did not belong to the same clubs. They did not live
in the same circles. They did not follow the same pursuits. They were interested in the same
property;--but, as on that subject there had been something approaching to a quarrel, and as
neither looked for assistance from the other, they were now silent on the matter. The father
believed himself to be a poorer man than his son, and was very sore on the subject; but he
had nothing beyond a life interest in his property, and there remained to him a certain amount
of prudence which induced him to abstain from eating more of his pudding,--lest absolute starvation
and the poorhouse should befall him. There still remained to him the power of spending some
five or six hundred a year, and upon this practice had taught him to live with a very considerable
amount of self-indulgence. He dined out a great deal, and was known everywhere as Mr. Maule
of Maule Abbey.

He was a slight, bright-eyed, grey-haired, good-looking man, who had once been very handsome.
He had married, let us say for love;--probably very much by chance. He had ill-used his wife,
and had continued a long-continued liaison with a complaisant friend. This had lasted some
twenty years of his life, and had been to him an intolerable burden. He had come to see the
necessity of employing his good looks, his conversational powers, and his excellent manners
on a second marriage which might be lucrative; but the complaisant lady had stood in his way.
Perhaps there had been a little cowardice on his part; but at any rate he had hitherto failed.
The season for such a mode of relief was not, however, as yet clean gone with him, and he was
still on the look out. There are women always in the market ready to buy for themselves the
right to hang on the arm of a real gentleman. That Mr. Maurice Maule was a real gentleman no
judge in such matters had ever doubted.

On a certain morning just at the end of February Mr. Maule was sitting in his library,--so-called,--eating
his breakfast, at about twelve o'clock; and at his side there lay a note from his son Gerard.
Gerard had written to say that he would call on that morning, and the promised visit somewhat
disturbed the father's comfort. He was in his dressing-gown and slippers, and had his newspaper
in his hand. When his newspaper and breakfast should be finished,--as they would be certainly
at the same moment,--there were in store for him two cigarettes, and perhaps some new French
novel which had just reached him. They would last him till two o'clock. Then he would dress
and saunter out in his great coat, made luxurious with furs. He would see a picture, or perhaps
some china-vase, of which news had reached him, and would talk of them as though he might be
a possible buyer. Everybody knew that he never bought anything;--but he was a man whose opinion
on such matters was worth having. Then he would call on some lady whose acquaintance at the
moment might be of service to him;--for that idea of blazing once more out into the world on
a wife's fortune was always present to him. At about five he would saunter into his club, and
play a rubber in a gentle unexcited manner till seven. He never played for high points, and
would never be enticed into any bet beyond the limits of his club stakes. Were he to lose £10
or £20 at a sitting his arrangements would be greatly disturbed, and his comfort seriously
affected. But he played well, taking pains with his game, and some who knew him well declared
that his whist was worth a hundred a year to him. Then he would dress and generally dine in
society. He was known as a good diner out, though in what his excellence consisted they who
entertained him might find it difficult to say. He was not witty, nor did he deal in anecdotes.
He spoke with a low voice, never addressing himself to any but his neighbour, and even to his
neighbour saying but little. But he looked like a gentleman, was well dressed, and never awkward.
After dinner he would occasionally play another rubber; but twelve o'clock always saw him back
into his own rooms. No one knew better than Mr. Maule that the continual bloom of lasting summer
which he affected requires great accuracy in living. Late hours, nocturnal cigars, and midnight
drinkings, pleasurable though they may be, consume too quickly the free-flowing lamps of youth,
and are fatal at once to the husbanded candle-ends of age.

But such as his days were, every minute of them was precious to him. He possessed the rare
merit of making a property of his time and not a burden. He had so shuffled off his duties
that he had now rarely anything to do that was positively disagreeable. He had been a spendthrift;
but his creditors, though perhaps never satisfied, had been quieted. He did not now deal with
reluctant and hard-tasked tenants, but with punctual, though inimical, trustees, who paid to
him with charming regularity that portion of his income which he was allowed to spend. But
that he was still tormented with the ambition of a splendid marriage it might be said of him
that he was completely at his ease. Now, as he lit his cigarette, he would have been thoroughly
comfortable, were it not that he was threatened with disturbance by his son. Why should his
son wish to see him, and thus break in upon him at the most charming hour of the day? Of course
his son would not come to him without having some business in hand which must be disagreeable.
He had not the least desire to see his son,--and yet, as they were on amicable terms, he could
not deny himself after the receipt of his son's note. Just at one, as he finished his first
cigarette, Gerard was announced.

"Well, Gerard!"

"Well, father,--how are you? You are looking as fresh as paint, sir."

"Thanks for the compliment, if you mean one. I am pretty well. I thought you were hunting somewhere."

"So I am; but I have just come up to town to see you. I find you have been smoking;--may I
light a cigar?"

"I never do smoke cigars here, Gerard. I'll offer you a cigarette." The cigarette was reluctantly
offered, and accepted with a shrug. "But you didn't come here merely to smoke, I dare say."

"Certainly not, sir. We do not often trouble each other, father; but there are things about
which I suppose we had better speak. I'm going to be married!"

"To be married!" The tone in which Mr. Maule, senior, repeated the words was much the same
as might be used by any ordinary father if his son expressed an intention of going into the
shoe-black business.

"Yes, sir. It's a kind of thing men do sometimes."

"No doubt;--and it's a kind of thing that they sometimes repent of having done."

"Let us hope for the best. It is too late at any rate to think about that, and as it is to
be done, I have come to tell you."

"Very well. I suppose you are right to tell me. Of course you know that I can do nothing for
you; and I don't suppose that you can do anything for me. As far as your own welfare goes,
if she has a large fortune,--"

"She has no fortune."

"No fortune!"

"Two or three thousand pounds perhaps."

"Then I look upon it as an act of simple madness, and can only say that as such I shall treat
it. I have nothing in my power, and therefore I can neither do you good or harm; but I will
not hear any particulars, and I can only advise you to break it off, let the trouble be what
it may."

"I certainly shall not do that, sir."

"Then I have nothing more to say. Don't ask me to be present, and don't ask me to see her."

"You haven't heard her name yet."

"I do not care one straw what her name is."

"It is Adelaide Palliser."

"Adelaide Muggins would be exactly the same thing to me. My dear Gerard, I have lived too long
in the world to believe that men can coin into money the noble blood of well-born wives. Twenty
thousand pounds is worth more than all the blood of all the Howards, and a wife even with twenty
thousand pounds would make you a poor, embarrassed, and half-famished man."

"Then I suppose I shall be whole famished, as she certainly has not got a quarter of that sum."

"No doubt you will."

"Yet, sir, married men with families have lived on my income."

"And on less than a quarter of it. The very respectable man who brushes my clothes no doubt
does so. But then you see he has been brought up in that way. I suppose that you as a bachelor
put by every year at least half your income?"

"I never put by a shilling, sir. Indeed, I owe a few hundred pounds."

"And yet you expect to keep a house over your head, and an expensive wife and family, with
lady's maid, nurses, cook, footman, and grooms, on a sum which has been hitherto insufficient
for your own wants! I didn't think you were such an idiot, my boy."

"Thank you, sir."

"What will her dress cost?"

"I have not the slightest idea."

"I dare say not. Probably she is a horsewoman. As far as I know anything of your life that
is the sphere in which you will have made the lady's acquaintance."

"She does ride."

"No doubt, and so do you; and it will be very easy to say whither you will ride together if
you are fools enough to get married. I can only advise you to do nothing of the kind. Is there
anything else?"

There was much more to be said if Gerard could succeed in forcing his father to hear him. Mr.
Maule, who had hitherto been standing, seated himself as he asked that last question, and took
up the book which had been prepared for his morning's delectation. It was evidently his intention
that his son should leave him. The news had been communicated to him, and he had said all that
he could say on the subject. He had at once determined to confine himself to a general view
of the matter, and to avoid details,--which might be personal to himself. But Gerard had been
specially required to force his father into details. Had he been left to himself he would certainly
have thought that the conversation had gone far enough. He was inclined, almost as well as
his father, to avoid present discomfort. But when Miss Palliser had suddenly,--almost suddenly,--accepted
him; and when he had found himself describing the prospects of his life in her presence and
in that of Lady Chiltern, the question of the Maule Abbey inheritance had of necessity been
discussed. At Maule Abbey there might be found a home for the married couple, and,--so thought
Lady Chiltern,--the only fitting home. Mr. Maule, the father, certainly did not desire to live
there. Probably arrangements might be made for repairing the house and furnishing it with Adelaide's
money. Then, if Gerard Maule would be prudent, and give up hunting, and farm a little himself,--and
if Adelaide would do her own housekeeping and dress upon forty pounds a year, and if they would
both live an exemplary, model, energetic, and strictly economical life, both ends might be
made to meet. Adelaide had been quite enthusiastic as to the forty pounds, and had suggested
that she would do it for thirty. The housekeeping was a matter of course, and the more so as
a leg of mutton roast or boiled would be the beginning and the end of it. To Adelaide the discussion
had been exciting and pleasurable, and she had been quite in earnest when looking forward to
a new life at Maule Abbey. After all there could be no such great difficulty for a young married
couple to live on £800 a year, with a house and garden of their own. There would be no carriage
and no man servant till,--till old Mr. Maule was dead. The suggestion as to the ultimate and
desirable haven was wrapped up in ambiguous words. "The property must be yours some day," suggested
Lady Chiltern. "If I outlive my father." "We take that for granted; and then, you know--" So
Lady Chiltern went on, dilating upon a future state of squirearchal bliss and rural independence.
Adelaide was enthusiastic; but Gerard Maule,--after he had assented to the abandonment of his
hunting, much as a man assents to being hung when the antecedents of his life have put any
option in the matter out of his power,--had sat silent and almost moody while the joys of his
coming life were described to him. Lady Chiltern, however, had been urgent in pointing out
to him that the scheme of living at Maule Abbey could not be carried on without his father's
assistance. They all knew that Mr. Maule himself could not be affected by the matter, and they
also knew that he had but very little power in reference to the property. But the plan could
not be matured without some sanction from him. Therefore there was still much more to be said
when the father had completed the exposition of his views on marriage in general. "I wanted
to speak to you about the property," said Gerard. He had been specially enjoined to be staunch
in bringing his father to the point.

"And what about the property?"

"Of course my marriage will not affect your interests."

"I should say not. It would be very odd if it did. As it is, your income is much larger than mine."

"I don't know how that is, sir; but I suppose you will not refuse to give me a helping hand
if you can do so without disturbance to your own comfort."

"In what sort of way? Don't you think anything of that kind can be managed better by the lawyer?
If there is a thing I hate, it is business."

Gerard, remembering his promise to Lady Chiltern, did persevere, though the perseverance went
much against the grain with him. "We thought, sir, that if you would consent we might live
at Maule Abbey."

"Oh;--you did; did you?"

"Is there any objection?"

"Simply the fact that it is my house, and not yours."

"It belongs, I suppose, to the property; and as--"

"As what?" asked the father, turning upon the son with sharp angry eyes, and with something
of real animation in his face.

Gerard was very awkward in conveying his meaning to his father. "And as," he continued,--"as
it must come to me, I suppose, some day, and it will be the proper sort of thing that we should
live there then, I thought that you would agree that if we went and lived there now it would
be a good sort of thing to do."

"That was your idea?"

"We talked it over with our friend, Lady Chiltern."

"Indeed! I am so much obliged to your friend, Lady Chiltern, for the interest she takes in
my affairs. Pray make my compliments to Lady Chiltern, and tell her at the same time that,
though no doubt I have one foot in the grave, I should like to keep my house for the other
foot, though too probably I may never be able to drag it so far as Maule Abbey."

"But you don't think of living there."

"My dear boy, if you will inquire among any friends you may happen to know who understand the
world better than Lady Chiltern seems to do, they will tell you that a son should not suggest
to his father the abandonment of the family property, because the father may--probably--soon--be
conveniently got rid of under ground."

"There was no thought of such a thing," said Gerard.

"It isn't decent. I say that with all due deference to Lady Chiltern's better judgment. It's
not the kind of thing that men do. I care less about it than most men, but even I object to
such a proposition when it is made so openly. No doubt I am old." This assertion Mr. Maule
made in a weak, quavering voice, which showed that had his intention been that way turned in
his youth, he might probably have earned his bread on the stage.

"Nobody thought of your being old, sir."

"I shan't last long, of course. I am a poor feeble creature. But while I do live, I should
prefer not to be turned out of my own house,--if Lady Chiltern could be induced to consent
to such an arrangement. My doctor seems to think that I might linger on for a year or two,--with
great care."

"Father, you know I was thinking of nothing of the kind."

"We won't act the king and the prince any further, if you please. The prince protested very
well, and, if I remember right, the father pretended to believe him. In my weak state you have
rather upset me. If you have no objection I would choose to be left to recover myself a little."

"And is that all that you will say to me?"

"Good heavens;--what more can you want? I will not--consent--to give up--my house at Maule
Abbey for your use,--as long as I live. Will that do? And if you choose to marry a wife and
starve, I won't think that any reason why I should starve too. Will that do? And your friend,
Lady Chiltern, may--go--and be d----d. Will that do?"

"Good morning, sir."

"Good morning, Gerard." So the interview was over, and Gerard Maule left the room. The father,
as soon as he was alone, immediately lit another cigarette, took up his French novel, and went
to work as though he was determined to be happy and comfortable again without losing a moment.
But he found this to be beyond his power. He had been really disturbed, and could not easily
compose himself. The cigarette was almost at once chucked into the fire, and the little volume
was laid on one side. Mr. Maule rose almost impetuously from his chair, and stood with his
back to the fire, contemplating the proposition that had been made to him.

It was actually true that he had been offended by the very faint idea of death which had been
suggested to him by his son. Though he was a man bearing no palpable signs of decay, in excellent
health, with good digestion,--who might live to be ninety,--he did not like to be warned that
his heir would come after him. The claim which had been put forward to Maule Abbey by his son
had rested on the fact that when he should die the place must belong to his son;--and the fact
was unpleasant to him. Lady Chiltern had spoken of him behind his back as being mortal, and
in doing so had been guilty of an impertinence. Maule Abbey, no doubt, was a ruined old house,
in which he never thought of living,--which was not let to a tenant by the creditors of his
estate, only because its condition was unfit for tenancy. But now Mr. Maule began to think
whether he might not possibly give the lie to these people who were compassing his death, by
returning to the halls of his ancestors, if not in the bloom of youth, still in the pride of
age. Why should he not live at Maule Abbey if this successful marriage could be effected? He
almost knew himself well enough to be aware that a month at Maule Abbey would destroy him;
but it is the proper thing for a man of fashion to have a place of his own, and he had always
been alive to the glory of being Mr. Maule of Maule Abbey. In preparing the way for the marriage
that was to come he must be so known. To be spoken of as the father of Maule of Maule Abbey
would have been fatal to him. To be the father of a married son at all was disagreeable, and
therefore when the communication was made to him he had managed to be very unpleasant. As for
giving up Maule Abbey,--! He fretted and fumed as he thought of the proposition through the
hour which should have been to him an hour of enjoyment; and his anger grew hot against his
son as he remembered all that he was losing. At last, however, he composed himself sufficiently
to put on with becoming care his luxurious furred great coat, and then he sallied forth in
quest of the lady.

CHAPTER XXII

"Purity of morals, Finn"

Mr. Quintus Slide was now, as formerly, the editor of the People's Banner, but a change had
come over the spirit of his dream. His newspaper was still the People's Banner, and Mr. Slide
still professed to protect the existing rights of the people, and to demand new rights for
the people. But he did so as a Conservative. He had watched the progress of things, and had
perceived that duty called upon him to be the organ of Mr. Daubeny. This duty he performed
with great zeal, and with an assumption of consistency and infallibility which was charming.
No doubt the somewhat difficult task of veering round without inconsistency, and without flaw
to his infallibility, was eased by Mr. Daubeny's newly-declared views on Church matters. The
People's Banner could still be a genuine People's Banner in reference to ecclesiastical policy.
And as that was now the subject mainly discussed by the newspapers, the change made was almost
entirely confined to the lauding of Mr. Daubeny instead of Mr. Turnbull. Some other slight
touches were no doubt necessary. Mr. Daubeny was the head of the Conservative party in the
kingdom, and though Mr. Slide himself might be of all men in the kingdom the most democratic,
or even the most destructive, still it was essential that Mr. Daubeny's organ should support
the Conservative party all round. It became Mr. Slide's duty to speak of men as heaven-born
patriots whom he had designated a month or two since as bloated aristocrats and leeches fattened
on the blood of the people. Of course remarks were made by his brethren of the press,--remarks
which were intended to be very unpleasant. One evening newspaper took the trouble to divide
a column of its own into double columns, printing on one side of the inserted line remarks
made by the People's Banner in September respecting the Duke of ----, and the Marquis of ----,
and Sir ---- ----, which were certainly very harsh; and on the other side remarks equally laudatory
as to the characters of the same titled politicians. But a journalist, with the tact and experience
of Mr. Quintus Slide, knew his business too well to allow himself to be harassed by any such
small stratagem as that. He did not pause to defend himself, but boldly attacked the meanness,
the duplicity, the immorality, the grammar, the paper, the type, and the wife of the editor
of the evening newspaper. In the storm of wind in which he rowed it was unnecessary for him
to defend his own conduct. "And then," said he at the close of a very virulent and successful
article, "the hirelings of ---- dare to accuse me of inconsistency!" The readers of the People's
Banner all thought that their editor had beaten his adversary out of the field.

Mr. Quintus Slide was certainly well adapted for his work. He could edit his paper with a clear
appreciation of the kind of matter which would best conduce to its success, and he could write
telling leading articles himself. He was indefatigable, unscrupulous, and devoted to his paper.
Perhaps his great value was shown most clearly in his distinct appreciation of the low line
of public virtue with which his readers would be satisfied. A highly-wrought moral strain would
he knew well create either disgust or ridicule. "If there is any beastliness I 'ate it is 'igh-faluting,"
he has been heard to say to his underlings. The sentiment was the same as that conveyed in
the "Point de zèle" of Talleyrand. "Let's 'ave no d----d nonsense," he said on another occasion,
when striking out from a leading article a passage in praise of the patriotism of a certain
public man. "Mr. Gresham is as good as another man, no doubt; what we want to know is whether
he's along with us." Mr. Gresham was not along with Mr. Slide at present, and Mr. Slide found
it very easy to speak ill of Mr. Gresham.

Mr. Slide one Sunday morning called at the house of Mr. Bunce in Great Marlborough Street,
and asked for Phineas Finn. Mr. Slide and Mr. Bunce had an old acquaintance with each other,
and the editor was not ashamed to exchange a few friendly words with the law-scrivener before
he was shown up to the member of Parliament. Mr. Bunce was an outspoken, eager, and honest
politician,--with very little accurate knowledge of the political conditions by which he was
surrounded, but with a strong belief in the merits of his own class. He was a sober, hardworking
man, and he hated all men who were not sober and hardworking. He was quite clear in his mind
that all nobility should be put down, and that all property in land should be taken away from
men who were enabled by such property to live in idleness. What should be done with the land
when so taken away was a question which he had not yet learnt to answer. At the present moment
he was accustomed to say very hard words of Mr. Slide behind his back, because of the change
which had been effected in the People's Banner, and he certainly was not the man to shrink
from asserting in a person's presence aught that he said in his absence. "Well, Mr. Conservative
Slide," he said, stepping into the little back parlour, in which the editor was left while
Mrs. Bunce went up to learn whether the member of Parliament would receive his visitor.

"None of your chaff, Bunce."

"We have enough of your chaff, anyhow; don't we, Mr. Slide? I still sees the Banner, Mr. Slide,--most
days; just for the joke of it."

"As long as you take it, Bunce, I don't care what the reason is."

"I suppose a heditor's about the same as a Cabinet Minister. You've got to keep your place;--that's
about it, Mr. Slide."

"We've got to tell the people who's true to 'em. Do you believe that Gresham 'd ever have brought
in a Bill for doing away with the Church? Never;--not if he'd been Prime Minister till doomsday.
What you want is progress."

"That's about it, Mr. Slide."

"And where are you to get it? Did you ever hear that a rose by any other name 'd smell as sweet?
If you can get progress from the Conservatives, and you want progress, why not go to the Conservatives
for it? Who repealed the corn laws? Who gave us 'ousehold suffrage?"

"I think I've been told all that before, Mr. Slide; them things weren't given by no manner
of means, as I look at it. We just went in and took 'em. It was hall a haccident whether it
was Cobden or Peel, Gladstone or Disraeli, as was the servants we employed to do our work.
But Liberal is Liberal, and Conservative is Conservative. What are you, Mr. Slide, to-day?"

"If you'd talk of things, Bunce, which you understand, you would not talk quite so much nonsense."

At this moment Mrs. Bunce entered the room, perhaps preventing a quarrel, and offered to usher
Mr. Slide up to the young member's room. Phineas had not at first been willing to receive the
gentleman, remembering that when they had last met the intercourse had not been pleasant,--but
he knew that enmities are foolish things, and that it did not become him to perpetuate a quarrel
with such a man as Mr. Quintus Slide. "I remember him very well, Mrs. Bunce."

"I know you didn't like him, Sir."

"Not particularly."

"No more don't I. No more don't Bunce. He's one of them as 'd say a'most anything for a plate
of soup and a glass of wine. That's what Bunce says."

"It won't hurt me to see him."

"No, sir; it won't hurt you. It would be a pity indeed if the likes of him could hurt the likes
of you." And so Mr. Quintus Slide was shown up into the room.

The first greeting was very affectionate, at any rate on the part of the editor. He grasped
the young member's hand, congratulated him on his seat, and began his work as though he had
never been all but kicked out of that very same room by its present occupant. "Now you want
to know what I'm come about; don't you?"

"No doubt I shall hear in good time, Mr. Slide."

"It's an important matter;--and so you'll say when you do hear. And it's one in which I don't
know whether you'll be able to see your way quite clear."

"I'll do my best, if it concerns me."

"It does." So saying, Mr. Slide, who had seated himself in an arm-chair by the fireside opposite
to Phineas, crossed his legs, folded his arms on his breast, put his head a little on one side,
and sat for a few moments in silence, with his eyes fixed on his companion's face. "It does
concern you, or I shouldn't be here. Do you know Mr. Kennedy,--the Right Honourable Robert
Kennedy, of Loughlinter, in Scotland?"

"I do know Mr. Kennedy."

"And do you know Lady Laura Kennedy, his wife?"

"Certainly I do."

"So I supposed. And do you know the Earl of Brentford, who is, I take it, father to the lady
in question?"

"Of course I do. You know that I do." For there had been a time in which Phineas had been subjected
to the severest censure which the People's Banner could inflict upon him, because of his adherence
to Lord Brentford, and the vials of wrath had been poured out by the hands of Mr. Quintus Slide
himself.

"Very well. It does not signify what I know or what I don't. Those preliminary questions I
have been obliged to ask as my justification for coming to you on the present occasion. Mr.
Kennedy has I believe been greatly wronged."

"I am not prepared to talk about Mr. Kennedy's affairs," said Phineas gravely.

"But unfortunately he is prepared to talk about them. That's the rub. He has been ill-used,
and he has come to the People's Banner for redress. Will you have the kindness to cast your
eye down that slip?" Whereupon the editor handed to Phineas a long scrap of printed paper,
amounting to about a column and a half of the People's Banner, containing a letter to the editor
dated from Loughlinter, and signed Robert Kennedy at full length.

"You don't mean to say that you're going to publish this," said Phineas before he had read it.

"Why not?"

"The man is a madman."

"There's nothing in the world easier than calling a man mad. It's what we do to dogs when we
want to hang them. I believe Mr. Kennedy has the management of his own property. He is not
too mad for that. But just cast your eye down and read it."

Phineas did cast his eye down, and read the whole letter;--nor as he read it could he bring
himself to believe that the writer of it would be judged to be mad from its contents. Mr. Kennedy
had told the whole story of his wrongs, and had told it well,--with piteous truthfulness, as
far as he himself knew and understood the truth. The letter was almost simple in its wailing
record of his own desolation. With a marvellous absence of reticence he had given the names
of all persons concerned. He spoke of his wife as having been, and being, under the influence
of Mr. Phineas Finn;--spoke of his own former friendship for that gentleman, who had once saved
his life when he fell among thieves, and then accused Phineas of treachery in betraying that
friendship. He spoke with bitter agony of the injury done him by the Earl, his wife's father,
in affording a home to his wife, when her proper home was at Loughlinter. And then declared
himself willing to take the sinning woman back to his bosom. "That she had sinned is certain,"
he said; "I do not believe she has sinned as some sin; but, whatever be her sin, it is for
a man to forgive as he hopes for forgiveness." He expatiated on the absolute and almost divine
right which it was intended that a husband should exercise over his wife, and quoted both the
Old and New Testament in proof of his assertions. And then he went on to say that he appealed
to public sympathy, through the public press, because, owing to some gross insufficiency in
the laws of extradition, he could not call upon the magistracy of a foreign country to restore
to him his erring wife. But he thought that public opinion, if loudly expressed, would have
an effect both upon her and upon her father, which his private words could not produce. "I
wonder very greatly that you should put such a letter as that into type," said Phineas when
he had read it all.

"Why shouldn't we put it into type?"

"You don't mean to say that you'll publish it."

"Why shouldn't we publish it?"

"It's a private quarrel between a man and his wife. What on earth have the public got to do
with that?"

"Private quarrels between gentlemen and ladies have been public affairs for a long time past.
You must know that very well."

"When they come into court they are."

"In court and out of court! The morale of our aristocracy,--what you call the Upper Ten,--would
be at a low ebb indeed if the public press didn't act as their guardians. Do you think that
if the Duke of ---- beats his wife black and blue, nothing is to be said about it unless the
Duchess brings her husband into court? Did you ever know of a separation among the Upper Ten,
that wasn't handled by the press one way or the other? It's my belief that there isn't a peer
among 'em all as would live with his wife constant, if it was not for the press;--only some
of the very old ones, who couldn't help themselves."

"And you call yourself a Conservative?"

"Never mind what I call myself. That has nothing to do with what we're about now. You see that
letter, Finn. There is nothing little or dirty about us. We go in for morals and purity of
life, and we mean to do our duty by the public without fear or favour. Your name is mentioned
there in a manner that you won't quite like, and I think I am acting uncommon kind by you in
showing it to you before we publish it." Phineas, who still held the slip in his hand, sat
silent thinking of the matter. He hated the man. He could not endure the feeling of being called
Finn by him without showing his resentment. As regarded himself, he was thoroughly well inclined
to kick Mr. Slide and his Banner into the street. But he was bound to think first of Lady Laura.
Such a publication as this, which was now threatened, was the misfortune which the poor woman
dreaded more than any other. He, personally, had certainly been faultless in the matter. He
had never addressed a word of love to Mr. Kennedy's wife since the moment in which she had
told him that she was engaged to marry the Laird of Loughlinter. Were the letter to be published
he could answer it, he thought, in such a manner as to defend himself and her without damage
to either. But on her behalf he was bound to prevent this publicity if it could be prevented;--and
he was bound also, for her sake, to allow himself to be called Finn by this most obnoxious
editor. "In the ordinary course of things, Finn, it will come out to-morrow morning," said
the obnoxious editor.

"Every word of it is untrue," said Phineas.

"You say that, of course."

"And I should at once declare myself willing to make such a statement on oath. It is a libel
of the grossest kind, and of course there would be a prosecution. Both Lord Brentford and I
would be driven to that."

"We should be quite indifferent. Mr. Kennedy would hold us harmless. We're straightforward.
My showing it to you would prove that."

"What is it you want, Mr. Slide?"

"Want! You don't suppose we want anything. If you think that the columns of the People's Banner
are to be bought, you must have opinions respecting the press of the day which make me pity
you as one grovelling in the very dust. The daily press of London is pure and immaculate. That
is, the morning papers are. Want, indeed! What do you think I want?"

"I have not the remotest idea."

"Purity of morals, Finn;--punishment for the guilty;--defence for the innocent;--support for
the weak;--safety for the oppressed;--and a rod of iron for the oppressors!"

"But that is a libel."

"It's very heavy on the old Earl, and upon you, and upon Lady Laura;--isn't it?"

"It's a libel,--as you know. You tell me that purity of morals can be supported by such a publication
as this! Had you meant to go on with it, you would hardly have shown it to me."

"You're in the wrong box there, Finn. Now I'll tell you what we'll do,--on behalf of what I
call real purity. We'll delay the publication if you'll undertake that the lady shall go back
to her husband."

"The lady is not in my hands."

"She's under your influence. You were with her over at Dresden not much more than a month ago.
She'd go sharp enough if you told her."

"You never made a greater mistake in your life."

"Say that you'll try."

"I certainly will not do so."

"Then it goes in to-morrow," said Mr. Quintus Slide, stretching out his hand and taking back
the slip.

"What on earth is your object?"

"Morals! Morals! We shall be able to say that we've done our best to promote domestic virtue
and secure forgiveness for an erring wife. You've no notion, Finn, in your mind of what will
soon be the hextent of the duties, privileges, and hinfluences of the daily press;--the daily
morning press, that is; for I look on those little evening scraps as just so much paper and
ink wasted. You won't interfere, then?"

"Yes, I will;--if you'll give me time. Where is Mr. Kennedy?"

"What has that to do with it? Do you write over to Lady Laura and the old lord and tell them
that if she'll undertake to be at Loughlinter within a month this shall be suppressed. Will
you do that?"

"Let me first see Mr. Kennedy."

Mr. Slide thought a while over that matter. "Well," said he at last, "you can see Kennedy if
you will. He came up to town four or five days ago, and he's staying at an hotel in Judd Street."

"An hotel in Judd Street?"

"Yes;--Macpherson's in Judd Street. I suppose he likes to keep among the Scotch. I don't think
he ever goes out of the house, and he's waiting in London till this thing is published."

"I will go and see him," said Phineas.

"I shouldn't wonder if he murdered you;--but that's between you and him."

"Just so."

"And I shall hear from you?"

"Yes," said Phineas, hesitating as he made the promise. "Yes, you shall hear from me."

"We've got our duty to do, and we mean to do it. If we see that we can induce the lady to go
back to her husband, we shall habstain from publishing, and virtue will be its own reward.
I needn't tell you that such a letter as that would sell a great many copies, Finn." Then,
at last, Mr. Slide arose and departed.

CHAPTER XXIII

Macpherson's Hotel

Phineas, when he was left alone, found himself greatly at a loss as to what he had better do.
He had pledged himself to see Mr. Kennedy, and was not much afraid of encountering personal
violence at the hands of that gentleman. But he could think of nothing which he could with
advantage say to Mr. Kennedy. He knew that Lady Laura would not return to her husband. Much
as she dreaded such exposure as was now threatened, she would not return to Loughlinter to
avoid even that. He could not hold out any such hope to Mr. Kennedy;--and without doing so
how could he stop the publication? He thought of getting an injunction from the Vice-Chancellor;--but
it was now Sunday, and he had understood that the publication would appear on the morrow, unless
stopped by some note from himself. He thought of finding some attorney, and taking him to Mr.
Kennedy; but he knew that Mr. Kennedy would be deterred by no attorney. Then he thought of
Mr. Low. He would see Mr. Kennedy first, and then go to Mr. Low's house.

Judd Street runs into the New Road near the great stations of the Midland and Northern Railways,
and is a highly respectable street. But it can hardly be called fashionable, as is Piccadilly;
or central, as is Charing Cross; or commercial, as is the neighbourhood of St. Paul's. Men
seeking the shelter of an hotel in Judd Street most probably prefer decent and respectable
obscurity to other advantages. It was some such feeling, no doubt, joined to the fact that
the landlord had originally come from the neighbourhood of Loughlinter, which had taken Mr.
Kennedy to Macpherson's Hotel. Phineas, when he called at about three o'clock on Sunday afternoon,
was at once informed by Mrs. Macpherson that Mr. Kennedy was "nae doubt at hame, but was nae
willing to see folk on the Saaboth." Phineas pleaded the extreme necessity of his business,
alleging that Mr. Kennedy himself would regard its nature as a sufficient justification for
such Sabbath-breaking,--and sent up his card. Then there came down a message to him. Could
not Mr. Finn postpone his visit to the following morning? But Phineas declared that it could
not be postponed. Circumstances, which he would explain to Mr. Kennedy, made it impossible.
At last he was desired to walk up stairs, though Mrs. Macpherson, as she showed him the way,
evidently thought that her house was profaned by such wickedness.

Macpherson in preparing his house had not run into that extravagance of architecture which
has lately become so common in our hotels. It was simply an ordinary house, with the words
"Macpherson's Hotel" painted on a semi-circular board over the doorway. The front parlour had
been converted into a bar, and in the back parlour the Macphersons lived. The staircase was
narrow and dirty, and in the front drawing-room,--with the chamber behind for his bedroom,--Mr.
Kennedy was installed. Mr. Macpherson probably did not expect any customers beyond those friendly
Scots who came up to London from his own side of the Highlands. Mrs. Macpherson, as she opened
the door, was silent and almost mysterious. Such a breach of the law might perhaps be justified
by circumstances of which she knew nothing, but should receive no sanction from her which she
could avoid. So she did not even whisper the name.

Mr. Kennedy, as Phineas entered, slowly rose from his chair, putting down the Bible which had
been in his hands. He did not speak at once, but looked at his visitor over the spectacles
which he wore. Phineas thought that he was even more haggard in appearance and aged than when
they two had met hardly three months since at Loughlinter. There was no shaking of hands, and
hardly any pretence at greeting. Mr. Kennedy simply bowed his head, and allowed his visitor
to begin the conversation.

"I should not have come to you on such a day as this, Mr. Kennedy--"

"It is a day very unfitted for the affairs of the world," said Mr. Kennedy.

"Had not the matter been most pressing in regard both to time and its own importance."

"So the woman told me, and therefore I have consented to see you."

"You know a man of the name of--Slide, Mr. Kennedy?" Mr. Kennedy shook his head. "You know
the editor of the People's Banner?" Again he shook his head. "You have, at any rate, written
a letter for publication to that newspaper."

"Need I consult you as to what I write?"

"But he,--the editor,--has consulted me."

"I can have nothing to do with that."

"This Mr. Slide, the editor of the People's Banner, has just been with me, having in his hand
a printed letter from you, which,--you will excuse me, Mr. Kennedy,--is very libellous."

"I will bear the responsibility of that."

"But you would not wish to publish falsehood about your wife, or even about me."

"Falsehood! sir; how dare you use that word to me? Is it false to say that she has left my
house? Is it false to say that she is my wife, and cannot desert me, as she has done, without
breaking her vows, and disregarding the laws both of God and man? Am I false when I say that
I gave her no cause? Am I false when I offer to take her back, let her faults be what they
may have been? Am I false when I say that her father acts illegally in detaining her? False!
False in your teeth! Falsehood is villainy, and it is not I that am the villain."

"You have joined my name in the accusation."

"Because you are her paramour. I know you now;--viper that was warmed in my bosom! Will you
look me in the face and tell me that, had it not been for you, she would not have strayed from
me?" To this Phineas could make no answer. "Is it not true that when she went with me to the
altar you had been her lover?"

"I was her lover no longer, when she once told me that she was to be your wife."

"Has she never spoken to you of love since? Did she not warn you from the house in her faint
struggle after virtue? Did she not whistle you back again when she found the struggle too much
for her? When I asked you to the house, she bade you not come. When I desired that you might
never darken my eyes again, did she not seek you? With whom was she walking on the villa grounds
by the river banks when she resolved that she would leave all her duties and desert me? Will
you dare to say that you were not then in her confidence? With whom was she talking when she
had the effrontery to come and meet me at the house of the Prime Minister, which I was bound
to attend? Have you not been with her this very winter in her foreign home?"

"Of course I have,--and you sent her a message by me."

"I sent no message. I deny it. I refused to be an accomplice in your double guilt. I laid my
command upon you that you should not visit my wife in my absence, and you disobeyed, and you
are an adulterer. Who are you that you are to come for ever between me and my wife?"

"I never injured you in thought or deed. I come to you now because I have seen a printed letter
which contains a gross libel upon myself."

"It is printed then?" he asked, in an eager tone.

"It is printed; but it need not, therefore, be published. It is a libel, and should not be
published. I shall be forced to seek redress at law. You cannot hope to regain your wife by
publishing false accusations against her."

"They are true. I can prove every word that I have written. She dare not come here, and submit
herself to the laws of her country. She is a renegade from the law, and you abet her in her
sin. But it is not vengeance that I seek. 'Vengeance is mine, saith the Lord.'"

"It looks like vengeance, Mr. Kennedy."

"Is it for you to teach me how I shall bear myself in this time of my great trouble?" Then
suddenly he changed; his voice falling from one of haughty defiance to a low, mean, bargaining
whisper. "But I'll tell you what I'll do. If you will say that she shall come back again I'll
have it cancelled, and pay all the expenses."

"I cannot bring her back to you."

"She'll come if you tell her. If you'll let them understand that she must come they'll give
way. You can try it at any rate."

"I shall do nothing of the kind. Why should I ask her to submit herself to misery?"

"Misery! What misery? Why should she be miserable? Must a woman need be miserable because she
lives with her husband? You hear me say that I will forgive everything. Even she will not doubt
me when I say so, because I have never lied to her. Let her come back to me, and she shall
live in peace and quiet, and hear no word of reproach."

"I can have nothing to do with it, Mr. Kennedy."

"Then, sir, you shall abide my wrath." With that he sprang quickly round, grasping at something
which lay upon a shelf near him, and Phineas saw that he was armed with a pistol. Phineas,
who had hitherto been seated, leaped to his legs; but the pistol in a moment was at his head,
and the madman pulled at the trigger. But the mechanism of the instrument required that some
bolt should be loosed before the hammer would fall upon the nipple, and the unhandy wretch
for an instant fumbled over the work so that Phineas, still facing his enemy, had time to leap
backwards towards the door. But Kennedy, though he was awkward, still succeeded in firing before
our friend could leave the room. Phineas heard the thud of the bullet, and knew that it must
have passed near his head. He was not struck, however; and the man, frightened at his own deed,
abstained from the second shot, or loitered long enough in his remorse to enable his prey to
escape. With three or four steps Phineas leaped down the stairs, and, finding the front door
closed, took shelter within Mrs. Macpherson's bar. "The man is mad," he said; "did you not
hear the shot?" The woman was too frightened to reply, but stood trembling, holding Phineas
by the arm. There was nobody in the house, she said, but she and the two lasses. "Nae doobt
the Laird's by ordinaire," she said at last. She had known of the pistol; but had not dared
to have it removed. She and Macpherson had only feared that he would hurt himself,--and had
at last agreed, as day after day passed without any injury from the weapon, to let the thing
remain unnoticed. She had heard the shot, and had been sure that one of the two men above would
have been killed.

Phineas was now in great doubt as to what duty was required of him. His first difficulty consisted
in this,--that his hat was still in Mr. Kennedy's room, and that Mrs. Macpherson altogether
refused to go and fetch it. While they were still discussing this, and Phineas had not as yet
resolved whether he would first get a policeman or go at once to Mr. Low, the bell from the
room was rung furiously. "It's the Laird," said Mrs. Macpherson, "and if naebody waits on him
he'll surely be shooting ane of us." The two girls were now outside the bar shaking in their
shoes, and evidently unwilling to face the danger. At last the door of the room above was opened,
and our hero's hat was sent rolling down the stairs.

It was clear to Phineas that the man was so mad as to be not even aware of the act he had perpetrated.
"He'll do nothing more with the pistol," he said, "unless he should attempt to destroy himself."
At last it was determined that one of the girls should be sent to fetch Macpherson home from
the Scotch Church, and that no application should be made at once to the police. It seemed
that the Macphersons knew the circumstances of their guest's family, and that there was a cousin
of his in London who was the only one with whom he seemed to have any near connection. The
thing that had occurred was to be told to this cousin, and Phineas left his address, so that
if it should be thought necessary he might be called upon to give his account of the affair.
Then, in his perturbation of spirit, he asked for a glass of brandy; and having swallowed it,
was about to take his leave. "The brandy wull be saxpence, sir," said Mrs. Macpherson, as she
wiped the tears from her eyes.

Having paid for his refreshment, Phineas got into a cab, and had himself driven to Mr. Low's
house. He had escaped from his peril, and now again it became his strongest object to stop
the publication of the letter which Slide had shown him. But as he sat in the cab he could
not hinder himself from shuddering at the danger which had been so near to him. He remembered
his sensation as he first saw the glimmer of the barrel of the pistol, and then became aware
of the man's first futile attempt, and afterwards saw the flash and heard the hammer fall at
the same moment. He had once stood up to be fired at in a duel, and had been struck by the
ball. But nothing in that encounter had made him feel sick and faint through every muscle as
he had felt just now. As he sat in the cab he was aware that but for the spirits he had swallowed
he would be altogether overcome, and he doubted even now whether he would be able to tell his
story to Mr. Low. Luckily perhaps for him neither Mr. Low nor his wife were at home. They were
out together, but were expected in between five and six. Phineas declared his purpose of waiting
for them, and requested that Mr. Low might be asked to join him in the dining-room immediately
on his return. In this way an hour was allowed him, and he endeavoured to compose himself.
Still, even at the end of the hour, his heart was beating so violently that he could hardly
control the motion of his own limbs. "Low, I have been shot at by a madman," he said, as soon
as his friend entered the room. He had determined to be calm, and to speak much more of the
document in the editor's hands than of the attempt which had been made on his own life; but
he had been utterly unable to repress the exclamation.

"Shot at?"

"Yes; by Robert Kennedy; the man who was Chancellor of the Duchy;--almost within a yard of
my head." Then he sat down and burst out into a fit of convulsive laughter.

The story about the pistol was soon told, and Mr. Low was of opinion that Phineas should not
have left the place without calling in policemen and giving an account to them of the transaction.
"But I had something else on my mind," said Phineas, "which made it necessary that I should
see you at once;--something more important even than this madman's attack upon me. He has written
a most foul-mouthed attack upon his wife, which is already in print, and will I fear be published
to-morrow morning." Then he told the story of the letter. "Slide no doubt will be at the People's
Banner office to-night, and I can see him there. Perhaps when I tell him what has occurred
he will consent to drop the publication altogether."

But in this view of the matter Mr. Low did not agree with his visitor. He argued the case with
a deliberation which to Phineas in his present state of mind was almost painful. If the whole
story of what had occurred were told to Quintus Slide, that worthy protector of morals and
caterer for the amusement of the public would, Mr. Low thought, at once publish the letter
and give a statement of the occurrence at Macpherson's Hotel. There would be nothing to hinder
him from so profitable a proceeding, as he would know that no one would stir on behalf of Lady
Laura in the matter of the libel, when the tragedy of Mr. Kennedy's madness should have been
made known. The publication would be as safe as attractive. But if Phineas should abstain from
going to him at all, the same calculation which had induced him to show the letter would induce
him to postpone the publication, at any rate for another twenty-four hours. "He means to make
capital out of his virtue; and he won't give that up for the sake of being a day in advance.
In the meantime we will get an injunction from the Vice-Chancellor to stop the publication."

"Can we do that in one day?"

"I think we can. Chancery isn't what it used to be," said Mr. Low, with a sigh. "I'll tell
you what I'll do. I'll go this very moment to Pickering." Mr. Pickering at this time was one
of the three Vice-Chancellors. "It isn't exactly the proper thing for counsel to call on a
judge on a Sunday afternoon with the direct intention of influencing his judgment for the following
morning; but this is a case in which a point may be strained. When such a paper as the People's
Banner gets hold of a letter from a madman, which if published would destroy the happiness
of a whole family, one shouldn't stick at a trifle. Pickering is just the man to take a common-sense
view of the matter. You'll have to make an affidavit in the morning, and we can get the injunction
served before two or three o'clock. Mr. Septimus Slope, or whatever his name is, won't dare
to publish it after that. Of course, if it comes out to-morrow morning, we shall have been
too late; but this will be our best chance." So Mr. Low got his hat and umbrella, and started
for the Vice-Chancellor's house. "And I tell you what, Phineas;--do you stay and dine here.
You are so flurried by all this, that you are not fit to go anywhere else."

"I am flurried."

