THE LOG OF THE "JOLLY POLLY"

By Richard Harding Davis

Temptation came to me when I was in the worst possible position to resist it.

It is a way temptation has. Whenever I swear off drinking invariably I am invited to an ushers'
dinner. Whenever I am rich, only the highbrow publications that pay the least, want my work.
But the moment I am poverty-stricken the MANICURE GIRL'S MAGAZINE and the ROT AND SPOT WEEKLY
spring at me with offers of a dollar a word. Temptation always is on the job. When I am down
and out temptation always is up and at me.

When first the Farrells tempted me my vogue had departed. On my name and "past performances"
I could still dispose of what I wrote, but only to magazines that were just starting. The others
knew I no longer was a best-seller. All the real editors knew it. So did the theatrical managers.

My books and plays had flourished in the dark age of the historical-romantic novel. My heroes
wore gauntlets and long swords. They fought for the Cardinal or the King, and each loved a
high-born demoiselle who was a ward of the King or the Cardinal, and with feminine perversity,
always of whichever one her young man was fighting. With people who had never read Guizot's
"History of France," my books were popular, and for me made a great deal of money. This was
fortunate, for my parents had left me nothing save expensive tastes. When the tastes became
habits, the public left me. It turned to white-slave and crook plays, and to novels true to
life; so true to life that one felt the author must at one time have been a masseur in a Turkish
bath.

So, my heroines in black velvet, and my heroes with long swords were "scrapped." As one book
reviewer put it, "To expect the public of to-day to read the novels of Fletcher Farrell is
like asking people to give up the bunny hug and go back to the lancers."

And, to make it harder, I was only thirty years old.

It was at this depressing period in my career that I received a letter from Fairharbor, Massachusetts,
signed Fletcher Farrell. The letter was written on the business paper of the Farrell Cotton
Mills, and asked if I were related to the Farrells of Duncannon, of the County Wexford, who
emigrated to Massachusetts in 1860. The writer added that he had a grandfather named Fletcher
and suggested we might be related. From the handwriting of Fletcher Farrell and from the way
he ill-treated the King's English I did not feel the ties of kinship calling me very loud.
I replied briefly that my people originally came from Youghal, in County Cork, that as early
as 1730 they had settled in New York, and that all my relations on the Farrell side either
were still at Youghal, or dead. Mine was not an encouraging letter; nor did I mean it to be;
and I was greatly surprised two days later to receive a telegram reading, "Something to your
advantage to communicate; wife and self calling on you Thursday at noon. Fletcher Farrell."
I was annoyed, but also interested. The words "something to your advantage" always possess
a certain charm. So, when the elevator boy telephoned that Mr. and Mrs. Farrell were calling,
I told him to bring them up.

My first glance at the Farrells convinced me the interview was a waste of time. I was satisfied
that from two such persons, nothing to my advantage could possibly emanate. On the contrary,
from their lack of ease, it looked as though they had come to beg or borrow. They resembled
only a butler and housekeeper applying for a new place under the disadvantage of knowing they
had no reference from the last one. Of the two, I better liked the man. He was an elderly,
pleasant-faced Irishman, smooth-shaven, red-cheeked, and with white hair. Although it was July,
he wore a frock coat, and carried a new high hat that glistened. As though he thought at any
moment it might explode, he held it from him, and eyed it fearfully. Mrs. Farrell was of a
more sophisticated type. The lines in her face and hands showed that for years she might have
known hard physical work. But her dress was in the latest fashion, and her fingers held more
diamonds than, out of a showcase, I ever had seen.

With embarrassment old man Farrell began his speech. Evidently it had been rehearsed and as
he recited it, in swift asides, his wife prompted him; but to note the effect he was making,
she kept her eyes upon me. Having first compared my name, fame, and novels with those of Charles
Dickens, Walter Scott, and Archibald Clavering Gunter, and to the disadvantage of those gentlemen,
Farrell said the similarity of our names often had been commented upon, and that when from
my letter he had learned our families both were from the South of Ireland, he had a premonition
we might be related. Duncannon, where he was born, he pointed out, was but forty miles from
Youghal, and the fishing boats out of Waterford Harbor often sought shelter in Blackwater River.
Had any of my forebears, he asked, followed the herring?

Alarmed, lest at this I might take offense, Mrs. Farrell interrupted him.

"The Fletchers and O'Farrells of Youghal," she exclaimed, "were gentry. What would they be
doing in a trawler?"

I assured her that so far as I knew, 1750 being before my time, they might have been smugglers
and pirates.

"All I ever heard of the Farrells," I told her, "begins after they settled in New York. And
there is no one I can ask concerning them. My father and mother are dead; all my father's relatives
are dead, and my mother's relatives are as good as dead. I mean," I added, "we don't speak!"

To my surprise, this information appeared to afford my visitors great satisfaction. They exchanged
hasty glances.

"Then," exclaimed Mr. Farrell, eagerly; "if I understand you, you have no living relations
at all--barring those that are dead!"

"Exactly!" I agreed.

He drew a deep sigh of relief. With apparent irrelevance but with a carelessness that was obviously
assumed, he continued.

"Since I come to America," he announced, "I have made heaps of money." As though in evidence
of his prosperity, he flashed the high hat. In the sunlight it coruscated like one of his wife's
diamonds. "Heaps of money," he repeated. "The mills are still in my name," he went on, "but
five years since I sold them--We live on the income. We own Harbor Castle, the finest house
on the whole waterfront."

"When all the windows are lit up," interjected Mrs. Farrell, "it's often took for a Fall River
boat!"

"When I was building it," Farrell continued, smoothly, "they called it Farrell's Folly; but
not NOW." In friendly fashion he winked at me, "Standard Oil," he explained, "offered half
a million for it. They wanted my wharf for their tank steamers. But, I needed it for my yacht!"

I must have sat up rather too suddenly, for, seeing the yacht had reached home, Mr. Farrell
beamed. Complacently his wife smoothed an imaginary wrinkle in her skirt.

"Eighteen men!" she protested, "with nothing to do but clean brass and eat three meals a day!"

Farrell released his death grip on the silk hat to make a sweeping gesture.

"They earn their wages," he said generously.

"Aren't they taking us this week to Cap May?"

"They're taking the yacht to Cape May!" corrected Mrs. Farrell; "not ME!"

"The sea does not agree with her," explained Farrell; "WE'RE going by automobile." Mrs. Farrell
now took up the wondrous tale.

"It's a High Flyer, 1915 model," she explained; "green, with white enamel leather inside, and
red wheels outside. You can see it from the window."

Somewhat dazed, I stepped to the window and found you could see it from almost anywhere. It
was as large as a freight car; and was entirely surrounded by taxi-starters, bellboys, and
nurse-maids. The chauffeur, and a deputy chauffeur, in a green livery with patent-leather leggings,
were frowning upon the mob. They possessed the hauteur of ambulance surgeons. I returned to
my chair, and then rose hastily to ask if I could not offer Mr. Farrell some refreshment.

"Mebbe later," he said. Evidently he felt that as yet he had not sufficiently impressed me.

"Harbor Castle," he recited, "has eighteen bedrooms, billiard-room, music-room, art gallery
and swimming-pool." He shook his head. "And no one to use 'em but us. We had a boy." He stopped,
and for an instant, as though asking pardon, laid his hand upon the knee of Mrs. Farrell. "But
he was taken when he was four, and none came since. My wife has a niece," he added, "but----"

"But," interrupted Mrs. Farrell, "she was too high and mighty for plain folks, and now there
is no one. We always took an interest in you because your name was Farrell. We were always
reading of you in the papers. We have all your books, and a picture of you in the billiard-room.
When folks ask me if we are any relation--sometimes I tell 'em we ARE."

As though challenging me to object, she paused.

"It's quite possible," I said hastily. And, in order to get rid of them, I added: "I'll tell
you what I'll do. I'll write to Ireland and----"

Farrell shook his head firmly. "You don't need to write to Ireland," he said, "for what we want."

"What DO you want?" I asked.

"We want a SON," said Farrell; "an adopted son. We want to adopt YOU!"

"You want to WHAT?" I asked.

To learn if Mrs. Farrell also was mad, I glanced toward her, but her expression was inscrutable.
The face of the Irishman had grown purple.

"And why not?" he demanded. "You are a famous young man, all right, and educated. But there's
nothing about me I'm ashamed of! I'm worth five million dollars and I made every cent Of it
myself--and I made it honest. You ask Dun or Bradstreet, ask----"

I attempted to soothe him.

"THAT'S not it, sir," I explained. "It's a most generous offer, a most flattering, complimentary
offer. But you don't know me. I don t know you. Choosing a son is a very----"

"I've had you looked up," announced Mrs. Farrell. "The Pinkertons give you a high rating. I
hired 'em to trail you for six months."

I wanted to ask WHICH six months, but decided to let sleeping dogs lie. I shook my head. Politely
but firmly I delivered my ultimatum.

"It is quite impossible!" I said firmly.

Mrs. Farrell continued the debate. She talked in a businesslike manner and pronounced the arrangement
one by which both sides would benefit. There were thousands of other Farrells, she pointed
out, any one of whom they might have adopted. But they had selected me because in so choosing,
they thought they were taking the least risk. They had decided she was pleased to say, that
I would not disgrace them, and that as a "literary author" I brought with me a certain social
asset.

A clever, young businessman they did not want. Their business affairs they were quit able to
manage themselves. But they would like as an adopted son one who had already added glory to
the name of Farrell, which glory he was willing to share.

"We wouldn't tie you down," she urged "but we would expect you to live at Harbor Castle a part
of your time, and to call us Ma and Pa. You would have your own rooms, and your own servant,
and there is a boat-house on the harbor front, where you could write your novels."

At this, knowing none wanted my novels, I may have winced, for, misreading my discontent, Farrell
hastily interrupted.

"You won't have to work at all," he protested heartily. "My son can afford to live like a lord.
You'll get all the spending money you want, and if you're fond of foreign parts, you can take
the yacht wherever you please!"

"The farther the better," exclaimed Mrs. Farrell with heat. "And when you get it there, I hope
you'll SINK it!"

"Maybe your friends would come and visit You," suggested Farrell, I thought, a trifle wistfully.
"There's bathing, tennis, eight... bedrooms, billiard-room, art gallery----"

"You told him that!" said Mrs. Farrell.

I was greatly at a loss. Their offer was preposterous, but to them, it was apparently a perfectly
possible arrangement. Nor were they acting on impulse. Mrs. Farrell had admitted that for six
months she had had me "trailed." How to say "No" and not give offense, I found difficult. They
were deeply in earnest and I could see that Farrell, at least, was by instinct generous, human,
and kind. It was, in fact, a most generous offer. But how was I to tell them tactfully I was
not for sale, that I was not looking for "ready-to-wear" parents, and that if I were in the
market, they were not the parents I would choose. I had a picture of life at Harbor Castle,
dependent upon the charity of the Farrells. I imagined what my friends would say to me, and
worse, what they would say behind my back. But I was not forced to a refusal.

Mr. Farrell rose.

"We don't want to hurry you," he said. "We want you to think it over. Maybe if we get acquainted----"

Mrs. Farrell smiled upon me ingratiatingly.

"Why don't we get acquainted now?" she demanded. "We're motoring down to Cape May to stay three
weeks. Why don't you come along--as our guest--and see how you like us?"

I assured them, almost too hastily, that already was deeply engaged.

As they departed, Farrell again admonished me to think it over.

"And look me up at Dun's and Bradstreet's," he advised. "Ask 'em about me at the Waldorf. Ask
the head waiters and bellhops if I look twice at a five spot!"

It seemed an odd way to select a father, but I promised. The fury of Mutileder was indescribable, but led to nothing. Did not even know about Fixed
the unhappy lover who was the kidnapper, though he suspected of marine Malaga had put in Echeloría
the lascivious and greedy eyes.

These abductions of women were extremely frequent in those heroic ages, and had already given
and should continue giving the opportunity to not a few riots and wars. The Phoenicians had
stolen from Io, Inachus daughter, the Greeks had stolen from Europe of Phoenicia, a Coico Medea
and Ariadne of Crete, and finally, a Phrygian prince stole the beautiful
Helen, wife of King Sparta, Menelaus, thus motivating a long and deadly
struggle, and after the destruction of Troy.

Don Juan Fresco explains, in my view, a satisfactory way these abductions of women. Supposed
that women, as well as its beauty is so delicate, it grows naturally. All that is raised is
the female of man. The real woman is artificial product, which is of great care and exquisite
care and cultivation convoluted.

Hence the rarity then the real woman and the magical and wondrous effect produced in the soul
of warriors barbarians, and spirited, accustomed to seeing females only.

When men recover from their astonishment turned to make the condition worse woman the humblest
slave, but sometimes a woman washed well, neat and composed, infused fervent love, enthusiasm
and some frenzied worship as if it were something divine. Hence the lies and myths of fairies and
charming as Circe and Calypso, which became the men into beasts, the gynaecocracy, that is,
the rule of women, established in many parties, as in the country of the Amazons and Arabia Felix,
and the unbridled influence, sometimes fatal, useful now, who exercised some ladies in the most
raw and brave men, as Omphale in Hercules, Samson, Delilah, Betzabé David, Egeria to Numa, and Judith
to Holofernes.

Hence, Finally, they earned much credit sibyls, the mediums and druidisas; above, no doubt
because they looked more of their people, and managed to polish and discover the hidden beauty
usually invisible in the female due to lack of polish and toilet.

In addition, understanding the beauty and the desire to achieve women were beautiful. Today much
of this quality, tamed and rebellious nature, often transmitted by inheritance; but in the
heroic times, the beauty was as inspired creation that women artists performed in his own
body, by dint of strive. Yet, five centuries after the time in which case our story, amazed
the study, neatness and careful preparations that women are worth to be presented in a dignified
manner. To please the king Asner, who was looking queen, Vashti divorced after, the girls spent
an entire year rubbed with liniments and ointments, Sauma, washing, refined and grooming. In
the day, with enough preparation time for submission to the most refined gourmet the crudest of the
peasant: irrefutable proof that what art and education acquired by
transmitted from mother to daughter.

Truth is, however, is less ductile nature now and the Hottentot,
although scrub and mud more than they would be submitted to Xerxes,
Hottentot remains, whence, without doubt, saying: "Although the mona
monkey dressed in silk remains."

Let us, however, Sayings and digressions aside, and continue our story.

Echeloría, by nature and art, by inheritance and by conquest, was a beauty. And Mutileder, rightly
adored, not cried, Her feminine bitterness, but, shaking his club and crunching the sling with
loud clicks, vowed to find his beloved, fought raptor, and avenge this defeat of a good stone
or a stick moliéndole.

Mutileder tells the story, the moment to make that oath, it was so beautiful could not be more.
Her blue eyes, usually sweet, light twinkled, his sharp, straight nose, swollen with anger, showed
very enlarged the windows, the eyebrows, pursed in the center, gave more glory to her forehead,
her mouth was left ajar see white teeth, equal and strong, healthy and fresh and bright color of lipstick
on gums and language.

Her head thrown back with arrogance and bareheaded, wore heavy, blond hair, floating in graceful
curls to the breeze, her legs and arms bare, collapsed then the muscles for energy attitude, gave
Hercules envious of youth. All in Mutileder was beauty, elegance, verve and donosura. His
voice, distorted by passion, entered in hearts, but his words were understood.

At that moment, oh Force of Destiny! there happened to pass by the graceful and distinguished Chem,
in Phoenician means beauty, more flirtatious and whimsical widow
was in Malaga.

Her husband had left many young and fortune. She remained with the house her husband's trade,
under the right of the widow unsocial Chem. In that time again to amuse himself a fifth had
in Churriana.

Six swarthy Ethiopian took her in a sedan chair, and two squires, one owner and four small page
Egyptians also went with more authority and decorum.

Chemer Mutileder heard, looked at him and wondered, looked back at him and was more amazed. Then
he said to himself: "Divine heaven, what do I look?

Will it be god or mortal?

"Ashtoreth Resplandecería more Adonis when he fell in love with?"

But questions continued her soliloquy, Chema continued its path, without questioning the young
man, who seemed furious, and not daring even to stop and get off the chair hand, in the midst
of strangers, whose language they did not understand, because they spoke the Iberian, which
as already stated, was what is now called Basque. If I had known Chemes Mutileder commonly
spoke Phoenician, as indeed he spoke, no doubt had stopped; but, not knowing or suspecting, Chema
passed by.

IV.

After Mutileder cast frogs and snakes through the mouth and is vented his best, came to give to the presumed
father the bad news of the abduction, and comfort, if comfort in size could be pain.

To avoid prolixity are not put here the lamentations that made both
as a duo.

What important to know is that Mutileder and his father, after mature consideration, recognized
the useless to complain of rape to the authorities of Malaga, which would make them no case, or
if if they did, nothing could be against a sailor so spoiled in Tyre,
as Adherbal was.

A I urge anyone that the judges sufetes or send against Adherbal Malaga, it was evident Tyre
sufetes that were to lay aside, turning a blind eye. There was more action to resign and hold
it, or take revenge and satisfaction by the hand. This latter was therefore decided Mutileder
with manly energy.

He said goodbye to her alleged father, and without thinking or pecuniary resources were worth nothing
that, went to Manchester to take languages, to ensure that he was
Adherbal the raptor, as I suspected, and seek to go to Tyre as in
the first ship to kick him out, to boot Echeloría of captivity or
a kidnapping in which he was and do a copy and just Adherbal punishment.

Through

it all, Mutileder was some consolation. I thought they had sworn to be of Echeloría faithful
or die, and was assured that would rather die than break his promise.

He himself had made the same oath, and felt strongly enough to fulfill it.

With these ideas in mind and with the purpose bizarre going to kick as soon as possible, ran
Mutileder the streets of Manchester until he began to get dark. All the news that acquired it was
confirmed that the kidnapper Echeloría Adherbal. In what was not far ahead in an agreement with
a pattern of vessel to come out soon and bring him to Phoenicia.

Night came, as has been pointed out, and now Mutileder retired to
his inn, he felt gently pulling it behind the layer.

He turned his face, and saw a little page Egyptian who said:

- Mr Mutileder, follow me, your worship, that no person who wishes to speak on matters that interest
you.

- Who can be that person? he replied. I, Malaga, do not know anyone.

Then said the little page:

- Although your worship does not know this person, this person knows
you.

Today, tomorrow, passed by the place of abduction obstinate, and heard and saw your grace when
he lamented. The person is compassionate, excellent, and was sorry.

Has taken reports on everything that happened, and has made his feelings
more.

Want to remedy the evil of your worship, with whom confer cares away.

Want to follow your worship?

Mutileder found no reasonable cause to say no, and followed the little page.

Followed by streets and alleys, which crossed quickly, it was our hero protobermejino false and
a little door closed at the end of a dead end.

The page applied a key to the lock, gave him two laps, and the door opened noiselessly. Entered
the page, and followed him Mutileder.

Page closed the door again, and he and our friend stayed in complete
darkness.

The page grabbed Mutileder the hand and led him through the darkness.

After a short time saw light and a flashlight on the floor.

He took the page, and already she gave birth to Mutileder, and showing the way, told him to
follow. Both rose by a long narrow staircase Spiral: then came another little door, opened the page,
which had lifted a carpet behind, and he and Mutileder entered a spacious and well lit room.

The page then slipped away without knowing how, and Mutileder met face to face with a ancient
and venerable lady, who, mellifluous voice, he said:

- Follow me, beautiful.

And Mutileder followed, somewhat flushed the untimely compliment.

Referring here not because I'm in a hurry, and I should not or I can
stand in the drawings, the workmanship great, rare jewelry, the beautiful
objects of art and comfortable chairs and sofas who had at various
venues through which they passed the owner and our hero, who atortolado
the followed.

Suffice to know that there you could put together of what had been invented the lap of luxury then
and as the active application of the Phoenician sailors he could bring all the counties that used
them to contribute, from the mouths of the Indus to the mouths of Rhine endpoints of their journeys
or voyages.

What I will say is that if a room was luxurious, it was another, and that the delicacy was
on the rise rooms as they passed. Wonderful peaceful silence and tranquility reigned throughout.
There was not a soul. Sweet solitude and mystery. Rich, mild fragrance of perfume permeated
Sabians the warm environment.

"- What is this? Mutileder said to himself. Where do I take this good woman? "

And the admiration and doubt were painted in his candid and beautiful face.

Finally, the owner knocked on a door, which was not open like the
others who had given passage from one room to another room, but it
was locked.

The owner opened a bit, enough for a person cupiese for her, pushed Mutileder, led him into,
and staying outside closed the door again, leaving him alone.

Mutileder, coming from rooms where too much light, he saw nothing
at first, and imagined that the room that had just entered was dark,
but his eyes widened soon and noticed a sweet evening light illuminating
this room, spreading from within three lamps of alabaster.

Had not yet had leisure to see everything that surrounded him when
he heard a voice Mutileder soft and Argentina, who looked out of a
new human throat and a fresh face, red and healthy, because all this
is known in the voice, which he said:

- Forgive me, friend, that
made you come here, wanting to talk.

Mutileder directed his eyes to the point where the voice came, and
saw lying languidly on a wide sofa and a dark lady majestic as an
empress, dressed in white and floating garment, with a full head of
hair, shiny and black as sloe, and with eyes that like two suns in
mourning, and by fire and lightning gave off, as its dark color and
the color, no less dark, eyebrows, long, curly eyelashes, and even
smooth the eyelids, which heightened the glow fulmineo shadows of
those eyes.

In the arms bare, almost close to the shoulder, had the lady neat gold bracelets and costly task,
on the chest and ears, necklace and earrings with emeralds, and paths bangles, like that of
the bracelets in the throats of their small feet, Shoes for buskins red silk. Identical silk ties
adorned the bodice and skirt and tightened the airy waist. On the blackest hair looked, lit
with grace, a bouquet of flowers of pomegranate.

In all this together Mutileder repaired, but without analysis, like us, because it was something
short and not knowing what was happening. The thing with good reason, above all, being a lad that,
while clear and bold, lacked experience and had never seen in sets of that genre.

Absorbed, silent, mouth open, was Mutileder, when the lady got up
and showed the his gallant foot tall, slender and supple as the palms
of Tadmor, and came to him and took him hand, which he felt like an
electric shock, led to another and said:

- Sit down.

What scares you?

And Mutileder sat beside the lady, quietly on a stool.

After it had calmed Mutileder he heard the lady with due attention,
and answered in concert.

She said her name was Chem, who was a widow and rich natural and Tyre,
who had known his pain, he was interested in him because of a sudden,
irresistible sympathy, and he longed give solace and remedy for their
ills.

Although Chemes had found out everything he wanted me to refer you Mutileder history. Mutileder
the spoke eloquently. Speaking of Echeloría, although it was hard man, he jumped tears. With tears
on her cheeks and her blue eyes watching, the boy the nicest thing you can imagine. Chemer not
get enough of looking at him, but with what looks!

Come on, you can not explain how they were.

Chemer had about thirty-five years.

Mutileder had not known her mother. Do not know what was the friendship and the love of women.

-
Poor me! exclaimed Chem. Adherbal Rogue! Do not pay evil with the life you have done. You are
right to want revenge and save Echeloría from the clutches of that monster. Mira, Mutileder:
within four days should I go to Tyre, where I have to get my affairs, very messy since my husband
died. You will come in my company. Consider me as your most loyal friend.

And Chemes simply took the hand of innocent boy, and clasped in hers and held her captive, balancing
the heat higher than it had in the heat he had in his hand.

Was still more interesting and beautiful when he spoke warmly Mutileder
of eternal love and fidelity and Echeloría he had sworn.

Chemer celebrated all this, and it was much to his liking.

- Yes, my son told Mutileder, it should be.

Echeloría happy that you found in a model lovers. There are usually other men like you, but
fickle and perjured. All my wealth, I'd give my position if I had found a lover so determined
and thin like you.

In short, this conversation took a long time, and I have notes and has provided me D. Juan Fresco
and I would very easily refer you to every detail, but, as my story has to go on a calendar
without exciting anyone to make them, and can not be extended much,
but be as a brief overview, I will most essential, slipping some Sometimes,
as he quickly slips in those passages that lend themselves to it so
slippery.

V.

Four days after the conference and first among Chemes Mutileder, leaving
both of Malaga to kick in a magnificent ship.

Mutileder was as private secretary to the queen to bring the Iberian language correspondence.

The
friendship between the two was close, and Mutileder, always to be seen in the presence of Chem,
was as happy and proud to have such elegant and discreet friend. Chemer was also much joke and
most fortunate occurrences: a thousand funny saying nonsense, and rejoiced Mutileder and could not
help laughing, but when I was alone, bitter melancholy took possession of his soul, cruel thoughts
tormented him, and something like remorse clawed the heart, like the claws of a cat, or let
us say, a tiger.

Mutileder spoke between his teeth, threw disconsolate sighs, and even
beat pawed and pinch without compassion, and often say:

"What mischief!

What mischief! "

In the presence of Chema or forgot her pain or restrained him and hid. This, no doubt, was the
mischief, alluding to his exclamation.

Mutileder had already had time to meditate, reflect and severe examination,
and are not absolved, but condemned as weak, faithless and disloyal,
in the superlative.

Sometimes I wanted to apologize to himself, and could not.

'I said, still love Echeloría, and Chem does not prevent it.

I'll get Echeloría, to freedom and to avenge, and Chem help me in my business. The affection
has something Chema of maternal. It's so good to me! - It's so cheerful
and funny!

What nonsense I salty it happen! How do I have to laugh to hear them? Do I have to be always crying?
No: it is not necessary mourn: there is no need to refuse to be comforted, like a wild beast,
to prove it a faithful and consistent. We'll see when I meet if I love Echeloría Adherbal or
I do not love. "

These and other subtleties and quintessence convoluted, brewing and represented Mutileder to
justify, but, as we said, could not ever.

Hence his sentence when
he was alone, and do not know where, forgetting his pain when Chema
was accompanied. Inexplicable contradictions, antinomies rare hearts
of deadly!

Thus, in soliloquies romantic, poignant and worthy of
Hamlet, which was not always Chemer; and entertaining talks, in talks
tender, and games and laughter, when Chemes appeared, Mutileder lived,
and so spent the time, walked the ship stopped at several places in
Africa and some islands of Greece, and finally came to Tyre, then
capital of Phoenicia from the destruction of Sidon, where the Philistines,
blond descendants of Japheth, came from Crete by sea, while the side
of the Arabian desert the Israelites entered the land Canaan and carried
everything with blood and fire. Tyre had been reborn after the power
Canaanite or Phoenician and was in all its glory and flourished. On
the throne of Tyre shone the King Hiram, the friend of Solomon, son
of David. Israelites and Phoenicians were close allies and happy.
Very long would describe here the greatness of Tyre. Let's leave
it for another day. What matters ie Adherbal Mutileder immediately
sought and found him not. Soon learned with rage the tireless ocean
without rest almost, was in command of the fleet, Hiram and Solomon
were issuing frequently to India, from the port of Aziongaber in the
Red Sea. Three days before the arrival of Mutileder and Chem, Adherbal
was launched to take command referred.

Adherbal must go through Jerusalem.
Mutileder thought only to pursue and achieve, before they embarked
for such a long voyage, which God knows when we return.

Fearing that
he lacks the strength and courage to say goodbye Chem prepared Mutileder
his journey with the utmost caution, taking the output of a caravan,
and mounted on a lightweight camel, came to Jerusalem, when Chemes
least suspected.

Chemer knew it and wept while reading a letter he
wrote before leaving and that he gave Chemer a person of confidence.
The letter read as follows:

"My dear Chem: I am the weakest and the
most wicked of men. I should run away from you since the first time
and not give you a heart that never belonged to you, it was with another
woman and never could be yours. All the affection, all the tenderness
that I have given, has been falsehood, perjury and infamy. And not
because I pretended that tenderness and the affection that flowed
instead in spurts, with all sincerity and passionate outpouring from
the bottom of my heart, but because the consagrártelos, skipping the
oath, breaking the mark of loyalty had Echeloría on my soul, and I
downgraded to villainy. At close range they appeared even more attractive than when pointed
out to me by the mate of the steamboat. They were very old, very weather-stained and covered
with honeysuckle. Flat stones in a setting of grass led from the gates to the arched doorways,
hollyhocks rose above hedges of box, and from the verandas one could look out upon the busy
harbor and the houses of New Bedford rising in steps up the sloping hills to a sky-line of
tree-tops and church spires. The mate had told me that for what he had rented a flat in New
York he had secured one of these charming old world homes. And as I passed them I began to
pick out the one in which when I retired from the world I would settle down. This time I made
no alterations. How much the near presence of Miss Briggs had to do with my determination to
settle down in Fairharbor, I cannot now remember. But, certainly as I crossed the bridge toward
New Bedford, thoughts of her entirely filled my mind. I assured my self this was so only because
she was beautiful. I was sure her outward loveliness advertised a nature equally lovely, but
for my sudden and extreme interest I had other excuses. Her in dependence in earning her living,
her choice in earning it among books and pictures, her pride of family as shown by her efforts
to buy the family heirloom, all these justified my admiration. And her refusing to go joy-riding
with an impertinent stranger, even though the impertinent stranger was myself, was an act I
applauded. The more I thought of Miss Briggs the more was I disinclined to go away leaving
with her an impression of myself so unpleasant as the one she then held. I determined to remove
it. At least, until I had redeemed myself, I would remain in New Bedford. The determination
gave me the greatest satisfaction. With a light heart I returned to the office of the steamboat
line and retrieving my suit-case started with it toward the Parker House. It was now past five
o'clock, the stores were closed, and all the people who had not gone to the baseball game with
Fall River were in the streets. In consequence, as I was passing the post-office, Miss Briggs
came down the steps, and we were face to face.

In her lovely eyes was an expression of mingled doubt and indignation and in her hand freshly
torn from the papers in which I had wrapped it, was "The Log of the JOLLY POLLY." In action
Miss Briggs was as direct as a submarine. At sight of me she attacked. "Did you send me this?"
she asked.

I lowered my bag to the sidewalk and prepared for battle. "I didn't think of your going to
the post-office," I said. "I planned you'd get it to-morrow after I'd left. When I sent it,
I thought I would never see you again."

"Then you did send it!" exclaimed Miss Briggs. As though the book were a hot plate she dropped
it into my hand. She looked straight at me, but her expression suggested she was removing a
caterpillar from her pet rosebush.

"You had no right," she said. "You may not have meant to be impertinent, but you were!"

Again, as though I had disappeared from the face of the earth, Miss Briggs gazed coldly about
her, and with dignity started to cross the street. Her dignity was so great that she glanced
neither to the left nor right. In consequence she did not see an automobile that swung recklessly
around a trolley-car and dived at her. But other people saw it and shrieked. I also shrieked,
and dropping the suit-case and the "Log," jumped into the street, grabbed Miss Briggs by both
arms, and flung her back to the sidewalk. That left me where she had been, and the car caught
me up and slammed me head first against a telegraph pole. The pole was hard, and if any one
counted me out I did not stay awake to hear him. When I came to I was conscious that I was
lying on a sidewalk; but to open my eyes, I was much too tired. A voice was saying, "Do you
know who he is, Miss?"

The voice that replied was the voice of the lovely Miss Briggs. But now I hardly recognized
it. It was full of distress, of tenderness and pity.

"No, I don't know him," it stammered. "He's a salesman--he was in the store this morning--he's
selling motor-cars." The first voice laughed.

"Motor-cars!" he exclaimed. "That's why he ain't scared of 'em. He certainly saved you from
that one! I seen him, Miss Briggs, and he most certainly saved your life!"

In response to this astonishing statement I was delighted to hear a well-trained male chorus
exclaim in assent.

The voices differed; some spoke in the accents of Harvard, pure and undefiled, some in a "down
East" dialect, others suggested Italian peanut venders and Portuguese sailors, but all agreed
that the life of Miss Briggs had been saved by myself. I had intended coming to, but on hearing
the chorus working so harmoniously I decided I had better continue unconscious.

Then a new voice said importantly: "The marks on his suitcase are 'F. F., New York."

I appreciated instantly that to be identified as Fletcher Farrell meant humiliation and disaster.
The other Fletcher Farrells would soon return to New Bedford. They would learn that in their
absence I had been spying upon the home I had haughtily rejected. Besides, one of the chorus
might remember that three years back Fletcher Farrell had been a popular novelist and might
recognize me, and Miss Briggs would discover I was not an automobile agent and that I had lied
to her. I saw that I must continue to lie to her. I thought of names beginning with "F," and
selected "Frederick Fitzgibbon." To christen yourself while your eyes are shut and your head
rests on a curb-stone is not easy, and later I was sorry I had not called myself Fairchild
as being more aristocratic. But then it was too late. As Fitzgibbon I had come back to life,
and as Fitzgibbon I must remain.

When I opened my eyes I found the first voice belonged to a policeman who helped me to my feet
and held in check the male chorus. The object of each was to lead me to a drink. But instead
I turned dizzily to Miss Briggs. She was holding my hat and she handed it to me. Her lovely
eyes were filled with relief and her charming voice with remorse.

"I--I can't possibly thank you," she stammered. "Are you badly hurt?"

I felt I had never listened to words so original and well chosen. In comparison, the brilliant
and graceful speeches I had placed on the lips of my heroines became flat and unconvincing.

I assured her I was not at all hurt and endeavored, jauntily, to replace my hat. But where
my head had hit the telegraph pole a large bump had risen which made my hat too small. So I
hung it on the bump. It gave me a rakish air. One of the chorus returned my bag and another
the "Log." Not wishing to remind Miss Briggs of my past impertinences; I guiltily concealed it.

Then the policeman asked my name and I gave the one I had just invented, and inquired my way
to the Parker House. Half the chorus volunteered to act as my escort, and as I departed, I
stole a last look at Miss Briggs. She and the policeman were taking down the pedigree of the
chauffeur of the car that had hit me. He was trying to persuade them he was not intoxicated,
and with each speech was furnishing evidence to the contrary.

After I had given a cold bath to the bump on my head and to the rest of my body which for the
moment seemed the lesser of the two, I got into dry things and seated myself on the veranda
of the hotel. With a cigar to soothe my jangling nerves, I considered the position of Miss
Briggs and myself. I was happy in believing it had improved. On the morrow there was no law
to prevent me from visiting Hatchardson's Bookstore, and in view of what had happened since
last I left it, I had reason to hope Miss Briggs would receive me more, kindly. Of the correctness
of this diagnosis I was at once assured. In front of the hotel a district messenger-boy fell
off his bicycle and with unerring instinct picked me out as Mr. Fitzgibbon of New York. The
note he carried was from Miss Briggs. It stated that in the presence of so many people it had
been impossible for her to thank me as she wished for the service I had rendered her, and that
Mrs. Cutler, with whom she boarded, and herself, would be glad if after supper I would call
upon them. I gave the messenger-boy enough gold to enable him to buy a new bicycle and in my
room executed a dance symbolizing joy. I then kicked my suit-case under the bed. I would not
soon need it. Now that Miss Briggs had forgiven me, I was determined to live and die in New
Bedford.

The home of Mrs. Cutler, where Miss Briggs lodged and boarded, was in a side street of respectable
and distinguished antiquity. The street itself was arched with the branches of giant elms,
and each house was an island surrounded by grass, and over the porches climbed roses. It was
too warm to remain indoors, so we sat on the steps of the porch, and through the leaves of
the elms the electric light globe served us as a moon. For an automobile salesman I was very
shy, very humble.

Twice before I had given offense and I was determined if it lay with me, it would not happen
again. I did not hope to interest Miss Briggs in myself, nor did I let it appear how tremendously
I was interested in her. For the moment I was only a stranger in a strange land making a social
call. I asked Miss Briggs about New Bedford and the whaling, about the books she sold, and
the books she liked. It was she who talked. When I found we looked at things in the same way
and that the same things gave us pleasure I did not comment on that astonishing fact, but as
an asset more precious than gold, stored it away. When I returned to the hotel I found that
concerning Miss Briggs I had made important discoveries. I had learned that her name was Polly,
that the JOLLY POLLY had been christened after her grandmother, that she was an orphan, that
there were relatives with whom she did not "hit it off," that she was very well read, possessed
of a most charming sense of humor, and that I found her the most attractive girl I had ever met.

The next morning I awoke in an exalted frame of mind. I was in love with life, with New Bedford,
and with Polly Briggs. I had been in love before but never with a young lady who worked in
a shop, and I found that loving a lady so occupied gives one a tremendous advantage. For when
you call she must always be at home, nor can she plead another engagement. So, before noon,
knowing she could not deny herself, I was again at Hatchardson's, purchasing more postal-cards.
But Miss Briggs was not deceived. Nor apparently was any one else. The BEDFORD MERCURY had
told how, the previous evening, Frederick Fitzgibbon, an automobile salesman from New York,
had been knocked out by an automobile while saving Miss Polly Briggs from a similar fate; and
Mr. Hatchardson and all the old ladies who were in the bookstore making purchases congratulated
me. It was evident that in Miss Briggs they took much more than a perfunctory interest. They
were very fond of her. She was an institution; and I could see that as such to visitors she
would be pointed out with pride, as was the new bronze statue of the Whaleman in Court House
Square. Nor did they cease discussing her until they had made it quite clear to me that in
being knocked out in her service I was a very lucky man. I did not need to be told that, especially
as I noted that Miss Briggs was anxious lest I should not be properly modest. Indeed, her wish
that in the eyes of the old ladies I should appear to advantage was so evident, and her interest
in me so proprietary, that I was far from unhappy.

The afternoon I spent in Fairharbor. From a real estate agent I obtained keys to those cottages
on the water-front that were for rent, and I busied myself exploring them. The one I most liked
I pretended I had rented, and I imagined myself at work among the flower-beds, or with my telescope
scanning the shipping in the harbor, or at night seated in front of the open fire watching
the green and blue flames of the driftwood. Later, irresolutely, I wandered across town to
Harbor Castle, this time walking entirely around it and coming upon a sign that read, "Visitors
Welcome. Do not pick the flowers."

Assuring myself that I was moved only by curiosity, I accepted the invitation, nor, though
it would greatly have helped the appearance of the cemetery-like beds, did I pick the flowers.
On a closer view Harbor Castle certainly possessed features calculated to make an impecunious
author Stop, look, and listen. I pictured it peopled with my friends. I saw them at the long
mahogany table of which through the French window I got a glimpse, or dancing in the music-room,
or lounging on the wicker chairs on the sweeping verandas. I could see them in flannels at
tennis, in bathing-suits diving from the spring-board of the swimming pool, departing on excursions
in the motor-cars that at the moment in front of the garage were being sponged and polished,
so that they flashed like mirrors. And I thought also of the two-thousand-ton yacht and to
what far countries, to what wonderful adventures it might carry me.

But all of these pictures lacked one feature. In none of them did Polly Briggs appear. For,
as I very well knew, that was something the ambitions of Mrs. Farrell would not permit. That
lady wanted me as a son only because she thought I was a social asset. By the same reasoning,
as a daughter-in-law, she would not want a shop-girl, especially not one who as a shop-girl
was known to all New Bedford. My mood as I turned my back upon the golden glories of Harbor
Castle and walked to New Bedford was thoughtful.

I had telegraphed my servant to bring me more clothes and my Phoenix car; and as I did not
want him inquiring for Fletcher Farrell had directed him to come by boat to Fall River. Accordingly,
the next morning, I took the trolley to that city, met him at the wharf, and sent him back
to New York. I gave him a check with instructions to have it cashed in that city and to send
the money, and my mail, to Frederick Fitzgibbon. This ALIAS I explained to him by saying I
was gathering material for an article to prove one could live on fifty cents a day. He was
greatly relieved to learn I did not need a valet to help me prove it.

I returned driving the Phoenix to New Bedford, and as it was a Saturday, when the store closed
at noon, I had the ineffable delight of taking Polly Briggs for a drive. As chaperons she invited
two young friends of hers named Lowell. They had been but very lately married, and regarded
me no more than a chauffeur they had hired by the hour. This left Polly who was beside me on
the front seat, and myself, to our own devices. Our devices were innocent enough. They consisted
in conveying the self-centred Lowells so far from home that they could not get back for supper
and were so forced to dine with me. Polly, for as Polly I now thought of her, discovered the
place. It was an inn, on the edge of a lake with an Indian name. We did not get home until
late, but it had been such a successful party that before we separated we planned another journey
for the morrow. That one led to the Cape by way of Bourne and Wood's Hole, and back again to
the North Shore to Barnstable, where we lunched. It was a grand day and the first of others
just as happy. After that every afternoon when the store closed I picked up the Lowells; and
then Polly, and we sought adventures. Sometimes we journeyed no farther than the baseball park,
but as a rule I drove them to some inn for dinner, where later, if there were music, we danced,
if not, we returned slowly through the pine woods and so home by the longest possible route.
The next Saturday I invited them to Boston. We started early, dined at the Touraine and went
on to a musical comedy, where I had reserved seats in the front row. This nearly led to my
undoing. Late in the first act a very merry party of young people who had come up from Newport
and Narragansett to the Coates-Islip wedding filled the stage boxes and at sight of me began
to wave and beckon. They were so insistent that between the acts I thought it safer to visit
them. They wanted to know why I had not appeared at the wedding, and who was the beautiful girl.

The next morning on our return trip to New Bedford Polly said, "I read in the papers this morning
that those girls in that theatre party last night were the bridesmaids at the Coates-Islip
wedding. They seemed to know you quite well."

I explained that in selling automobiles one became acquainted with many people.

Polly shook her head and laughed. Then she turned and looked at me.

"You never sold an automobile in your life," she said.

With difficulty I kept my eyes on the road; but I protested vigorously.

"Don't think I have been spying," said Polly; "I found you out quite by accident. Yesterday
a young man I know asked me to persuade you to turn in your Phoenix and let him sell you one
of the new model. I said you yourself were the agent for the Phoenix, and he said that, on
the contrary, HE was, and that you had no right to sell the car in his TERRITORY." I grinned
guiltily and said:

"Well, I HAVEN'T sold any, have I?"

"That is not the point," protested Polly. "What was your reason for telling me you were trying
to earn a living selling automobiles?"

"So that I could take you driving in one," I answered.

"Oh!" exclaimed Polly.

There was a pause during which in much inward trepidation I avoided meeting her eyes. Then
Polly added thoughtfully, "I think that was a very good reason."

In our many talks the name of the Fletcher Farrells had never been mentioned. I had been most
careful to avoid it. As each day passed, and their return imminent, and in consequence my need
to fly grew more near, and the name was still unspoken, I was proportionately grateful. But
when the name did come up I had reason to be pleased, for Polly spoke it with approval, and
it was not of the owner of Harbor Castle she was speaking, but of myself. It was one evening
about two weeks after we had met, and I had side-stepped the Lowells and was motoring with
Polly alone. We were talking of our favorite authors, dead and alive.

"You may laugh," said Polly, and she said it defiantly, "and I don't know whether you would
call him among the dead or the living, but I am very fond of Fletcher Farrell!"

My heart leaped. I was so rattled that I nearly ran the car into a stone wall. I thought I
was discovered and that Polly was playing with me. But her next words showed that she was innocent.
She did not know that the man to whom she was talking and of whom she was talking were the
same. "Of course you will say," she went on, "that he is too romantic, that he is not true
to life. But I never lived in the seventeenth century, so I don't know whether he is true to
life or not. And I like romance. The life I lead in the store gives me all the reality I want.
I like to read about brave men and great and gracious ladies." Cutting then
you stout and secular pines and cedars of Lebanon, making them carry on shoulders of the strongest
men of the defeated nations, as the Rephaim, for example, insolent race of giants, almost barking
instead of talking, and locking each other logs art and skill, Solomon did build floating castle
that withstood the blast of the hurricanes and the fury of the waves. In the desert, Solomon
was founded in Tadmor, famous after the name of Palmyra, an oasis filled with palms, so that was
rich emporium and resting place for caravans going from the banks of the Euphrates Jordan and the Tigris,
Damascus, Nineveh and Babylon. I was finally interested in Solomon Phoenician trade with Tarshish
or Iberia Mutileder homeland, and even beyond to the North West and the world, far beyond,
because the ships came to Tyrian Baltic. For all of which ebbed over Jerusalem as God created
for temporal goods. The Silver was so common that was viewed with contempt. Everything was made
of pure gold, to Tackle kitchen. Came perfumes of Arabia, of Egypt, linen, horses and chariots
black slaves and ivory, Nubia, and spices and sandalwood, and pearls, and diamonds Jimi and
parrots and peacocks, and cotton and silk, beyond the mouth Indus. Gold came from everywhere,
and in Tibar, and Ofir, amber and tin, North Europe, copper and iron from Spain. Thus abundant
especially in Jerusalem. The fame of King flying around the world, because the king exceeded the
other kings, have or might have, in science and wealth, and no person of good taste who does
not wish to see his face, and especially the children of Israel, whom the respected and feared
foreign nations, where they lived calm them and fortunate, in the shadow of the vines and her
fig trees, from Dan to Beersheba, all the days of his reign.

For, as we were saying, to this splendid city of Jerusalem was our bermejino prehistoric accompanied
by his guide, but more confident in his fiery club and the gorgeous
deep that Echeloría had given, and which, as they say, no bread is
baked until avenge his first love, broken pate the abductor of a violent
and unjust accurate stone.



As his son, Mr. Farrell explained, my annual allowance would be the interest on one million
dollars, and upon his death his entire fortune and property he would bequeath to me. He was
willing, even anxious, to put this in writing. In a week he would return to Fairharbor when
he hoped to receive a favorable answer. In the meantime he enclosed a letter to his housekeeper.

"Don't take anything for granted," he urged, "but go to Fairharbor and present this letter.
See the place for yourself. Spend the week there and act like you were the owner. My housekeeper
has orders to take her orders from you. Don't refuse something you have never seen!"

This part of the letter made me feel as mean and uncomfortable as a wet hen. The open, almost
too open, methods of Mr. Farrell made my own methods appear contemptible. He was urging me
to be his guest and I was playing the spy. But against myself my indignation did not last.
A letter, bearing a special delivery stamp which arrived later in the afternoon from Mrs. Farrell
turned my indignation against her, and with bitterness. She also had been spying. Her letter read:

The Pinkerton I employed to report on you states that after losing you for a week he located
you at New Bedford, that you are living under the name of Fitzgibbon, and that you have made
yourself conspicuous by attentions to a young person employed in a shop. This is for me a great
blow and disappointment, and I want you to clearly understand Mr. Farrell's offer is made to
you as an unmarried man. I cannot believe your attentions are serious, but whether they are
serious or not, they must cease. The detective reports the pair of you are now the talk of
Fairharbor. You are making me ridiculous. I do not want a shop-girl for a daughter-in-law and
you will either give up her acquaintance or give up Harbor Castle!

I am no believer in ultimatums. In attaining one's end they seldom prove successful. I tore
the note into tiny pieces, and defiantly, with Polly in the seat beside me, drove into the
open country. At first we picked our way through New Bedford, from the sidewalks her friends
waved to her, and my acquaintances smiled. The detective was right. We had indeed made ourselves
the talk of the town, and I was determined the talk must cease.

We had reached Ruggles Point when the car developed an illness. I got out to investigate. On
both sides of the road were tall hemlocks and through them to the west we could see the waters
of Sippican Harbor in the last yellow rays of the sun as it sank behind Rochester. Overhead
was the great harvest moon.

Polly had taken from the pocket of the car some maps and guide-books, and while I lifted the
hood and was deep in the machinery she was turning them over.

"What," she asked, "is the number of this car? I forget."

As I have said, I was preoccupied and deep in the machinery; that is, with a pair of pliers
I was wrestling with a recalcitrant wire. Unsuspiciously I answered: "Eight-two-eight."

A moment later I heard a sharp cry, and raised my head. With eyes wide in terror Polly was
staring at an open book. Without appreciating my danger I recognized it as "Who's Who in Automobiles."
The voice of Polly rose in a cry of disbelief.

"Eight-two-eight," she read, "owned by Fletcher Farrell, Hudson Apartments, New York City."
She raised her eyes to mine.

"Is that true?" she gasped. "Are you Fletcher Farrell?" I leaned into the car and got hold
of her hand.

"That is not important," I stammered. "What is important is this: Will you be Mrs. Fletcher
Farrell?"

What she said may be guessed from the fact that before we returned to New Bedford we drove
to Fairharbor and I showed her the cottage I liked best. It was the one with the oldest clapboard
shingles, the oldest box hedge, the most fragrant honeysuckles, and a lawn that wet its feet
in the surf. Polly liked it the best, too.

By now the daylight had gone, and on the ships the riding lights were shining, but shining
sulkily, for the harvest moon filled the world with golden radiance. As we stood on the porch
of the empty cottage, in the shadow of the honeysuckles, Polly asked an impossible question.
It was:

"How MUCH do you love me?"

"You will never know," I told her, "but I can tell you this: I love you more than a two-thousand-ton
yacht, the interest on one million dollars, and Harbor Castle!"

It was a wasteful remark, for Polly instantly drew away.

"What DO you mean?" she laughed.

"Fletcher Farrell of Harbor Castle," I explained, "offered me those things, minus you. But
I wanted you."

"I see," cried Polly, "he wanted to adopt you. He always talks of that. I am sorry for him.
He wants a son so badly." She sighed softly, "Poor uncle!"

"Poor WHAT!" I yelled.

"Didn't you know," exclaimed Polly, "that Mrs. Farrell was a Briggs! She was my father's sister."

"Then YOU," I said, "are the relation who was 'too high and mighty'!" Polly shook her head.

"No," she said, "I didn't want to be dependent." Dehaud diet pills, I think prove me right.

-
Wow, I'm glad that finally we've found a drug that produces an effect
... Want sit?

- Grandmother, give me a pussy - the girl said, interrupting.

-
I have, my dear ... Do you have any candy, Ventura?

- No.

- Tene
James is here.

Venturita was horribly pale.

- Jame What girl? - Asked Dona Paula.

- Nothing, nothing, any silly
... "So you have tried it the pills?

... If Don Rufo, more to say, understand ... Go if you understand!
- Ventura said quickly, his voice trembling the face so broken, that
her mother looked surprised.

- James is here ... Tene pussy ... Come
on, Grandma.

The girl pulled the dress to Madame. This, and too pale, vaguely guessing something terrible,
was carried away not knowing what he did.

- Cecilia! - Ventura shouted in a strange voice he had never heard
his mother.

But the girl ignored. He kept dragging his grandmother into the bedroom.

Before arriving at the door, she was presented the Duke of lathes.

Dona Paula, before this sudden appearance, he was nailed to the floor a moment, the face White
and terrified, the astonishment. Then he fell heavily to the ground, dragging the fall to
his granddaughter.

The Duke was quick to pick it up. Then, with an imperious gesture of Ventura, left on the couch
and fled.

In the voices of the young, attended by servants and then Cecilia. Was believed to syncope
produced by fatigue. Transportósela to his bed, where after, thanks to the care of Cecilia, regained
consciousness. But the power of speech. The poor lady could no longer articulate word. That was
two days, without the efforts of Don Rufo, nor those of other medical
Lancia came, we got in that language movement, which had been paralyzed.
Generally, I was with my eyes closed, breathing slight moans. Only
when Ventura entered the room opened them to nail it with a fixed
expression of anguish and counterclaim.

In her white and green High Flier car and all of her diamonds, Mrs. Farrell called on Polly
and begged the same boon. We were too happy to see any one else dissatisfied; so though we
had planned the quietest of weddings, we gave consent. Somehow we survived it. But now we recall
it only as that terrible time when we were never alone. For once in the hands of our rich relations
the quiet wedding we had arranged became a royal alliance, a Field of the Cloth of Gold, the
chief point of attack for the moving-picture men.

The youths who came from New York to act as my ushers informed me that the Ushers' Dinner at
Harbor Castle-from which, after the fish course, I had fled--was considered by them the most
successful ushers' dinner in their career of crime. My uncle-in-Law also testifies to this.
He ought to know. At four in the morning he was assisting the ushers in throwing the best man
and the butler into the swimming-pool.

For our honeymoon he loaned us the yacht. "Take her as far as you like," he said. "After this
she belongs to you and Polly. And find a better name for her than Harbor Lights. But immediately afterwards, and taking
the occasion by the hair, he entered as always, cuts and Claymore to their enemies. Contained The
hack that led to Duke Rosendo and was going to Saloncillo presenting one a most remarkable
men gathered there.

My uncle-in-law-elect agreed heartily; but made one condition:

"I'll christen her that," he said, "if you will promise to write a new Log of the JOLLY POLLY."
I promised. This is it.

