"And if he should tell you that those quotations which he did not understand were rubbish and
nonsense, would you consider him a good authority?"

"No, how could he be," replied the pastor. But having communicated the project with
his uncle, this man tried saw fit to launch a series of inarticulate cries outside all the normal
pitch, which ended he was heard to exclaim:

- What! A Cuevas got a beer! The son of a captain, the grandson of an admiral Navy! You are
treeless, Gonzalo. Well the saying goes that idleness is the mother of all vices. If you had
entered the School of Marine and I advised you to these hours would be a midshipman and first,
and you'd be running the world without thinking such antics.

Gonzalo was silent, but did not continue reading its manufacturing
methods. "No, yet he ought to know what he is talking about."

"Did Parson Jones ever have a talk with one of those hair-brained women, as he calls them?"

"No, I don't think he did, but he says he has investigated this cult sufficiently to know there
is nothing in it," said the pastor, rather quietly. The audience laughed
loudly waiting for the next outcome of that incident. In fact, when he felt hot head more than necessary
evil spirit, was quick to pull the wig and mask, have revealed the face of Levita, where he painted
the terror.

- Levita! - Shouted the audience exhilarated.

The rogue had this nickname, deprived of their attributes hell, confused
and embarrassed withdrew from the scene.

Soon it ignited other wig.

"I should certainly go to the man who had been there," said the pastor.

"Then when you want information regarding Christian Science, why don't you go to a Christian
Scientist?" said his son. The boat cabecearía not much, is it loaded ... What flows?
Marearíais not provided with all the material, eh? Do you have to reefing Liverpool exit? I
know, I know the cloth!

Gonzalo replied to questions with distraction, which, moreover, hardly
understood.

He was downcast and gloomy.

Finally watching his uncle, stood firm and said:

- What is it, Gonzalito?

You seem sad.

- Me? Ca! No, sir.

- I swear it is.

"Who is this practitioner?"

"Mrs. White, who lives down on Grant St.; she promised to come any time I would ask her to."

When Walter said Mrs. White, the pastor recalled what Parson Jones said regarding these lady
practitioners telling all his parishioners, and the possibility of his losing his position;
this made him very much afraid, so he said:

"Wait a minute, Walter, let us talk this matter over a little before you go. It is a wonderful person - said the young man smiling.

The guy, without realizing the irony, he sneered.

- Oh, I see you so ignorant as you went ... I am looking for dinner.

- I wait for you, man - said Gonzalo, who was already far .-- It may not have dinner.

And without taking race, but with unusual speed, thanks to his huge
legs, saved the streets, lit by some rare oil lamps in the theater.
Any you stumble in that hour you inglesote diputaría by the many who
come to Sarrió sometimes sending ships, other mining concessions to
recognize or mount any industry. His colossal stature, big man, are
the hallmarks of the Spanish race, even we are in one of the northern
provinces. I will at least have a talk with this practitioner;
you may tell her to come this evening if she will, and I will talk with her."

