They were in the midst of a forest of conical spires whose sides were of dark glittering stuff
that reminded Bert of the crystals of carborundum before pulverizing for commercial use. A
myriad of deep colors were reflected from the sharply pointed piles in the light of a great
cold moon that hung low in the heavens above them.

In the half light down there between the circular bases of the cones, weird creatures were
moving. Like great earthworms they moved, sluggishly and with writhing contortions of their
many-jointed bodies. Long cylindrical things with glistening gray hide, like armor plate and
with fearsome heads that reared upward occasionally to reveal the single flaming eye and massive
iron jaws each contained. There were riveted joints and levers, wheels and gears that moved
as the creatures moved; darting lights that flashed forth from trunnion-mounted cases like
the searchlights of a battleship of Earth; great swiveled arms with grappling hooks attached.
They were mechanical contrivances--the metal monsters of which the Wanderer had spoken. Whether
their brains were comprised of active living cells or whether they were cold, calculating machines
of metallic parts, Bert was never to know.

"See, the gateway," the Wanderer was saying. "They are investigating. It is the beginning of
the end of Urtraria--all as it occurred in the dim and distant past."

He gripped Bert's arm, pointing a trembling finger, and his face was a terrible thing to see
in the eery light of their sphere.

       *       *       *       *       *

A sharply outlined circle of blue-white appeared down there in the midst of the squirming monsters.
The sphere drifted lower and Bert was able to see that a complicated machine was being trundled
out from an arched doorway in the base of one of the conical dwellings. It was moved to the
edge of the light circle which was the bowl on that rooftop of Urtraria. The same bowl! A force
area like that used by Tom Parker, an area existent in many planes of the fifth dimension simultaneously,
an area where the various components of wave motion merged and became as one. The gateway between
planes!

The machine of the metal monsters was provided with a huge lens and a reflector, and these
were trained on the bowl. Wheels and levers of the machine moved swiftly. There came an orange
light from within that was focused upon lens and reflector to strike down and mingle with the
cold light of the bowl. A startling transformation ensued, for the entire area within view
was encompassed with a milky diffused brightness in which two worlds seemed to intermingle
and fuse. There were the rooftops of the city in Urtraria and its magnificent domes, a transparent
yet substantial reality superimposed upon the gloomy city of cones of the metal monsters.

"Jupiter!" Bert breathed. "They're going through!"

"They are, Earthling. More accurately, they did--thousands of them; millions." Even as the
Wanderer spoke, the metal monsters were wriggling through between the two planes, their enormous
bodies moving with menacing deliberation.

On the rooftops back in Urtraria could be seen the frantic, fleeing forms of humanlike beings--the
Wanderer's people.

There was a sharp click from the control panel and the scene was blotted out by the familiar
maze of geometric shapes, the whirling, dancing light-forms that rushed madly past over the
vast arch which spanned infinity.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Where were you at the time?" asked Bert. Awed by what he had seen and with pity in his heart
for the man who had unwittingly let loose the horde of metal monsters on his own loved ones
and his own land, he stared at the Wanderer.

