That incident is followed in the "Record" by the following paragraph, which is another instance
of a juvenile characteristic maintaining itself into mature age. Susy was persistently and
conscientiously truthful throughout her life with the exception of one interruption covering
several months, and perhaps a year. This was while she was still a little child. Suddenly--not
gradually--she began to lie; not furtively, but frankly, openly, and on a scale quite disproportioned
to her size. Her mother was so stunned, so nearly paralyzed for a day or two, that she did
not know what to do with the emergency. Reasonings, persuasions, beseechings, all went for
nothing; they produced no effect; the lying went tranquilly on. Other remedies were tried,
but they failed. There is a tradition that success was finally accomplished by whipping. I
think the Record says so, but if it does it is because the Record is incomplete. Whipping was
indeed tried, and was faithfully kept up during two or three weeks, but the results were merely
temporary; the reforms achieved were discouragingly brief.

Fortunately for Susy, an incident presently occurred which put a complete stop to all the mother's
efforts in the direction of reform. This incident was the chance discovery in Darwin of a passage
which said that when a child exhibits a sudden and unaccountable disposition to forsake the
truth and restrict itself to lying, the explanation must be sought away back in the past; that
an ancestor of the child had had the same disease, at the same tender age; that it was irremovable
by persuasion or punishment, and that it had ceased as suddenly and as mysteriously as it had
come, when it had run its appointed course. I think Mr. Darwin said that nothing was necessary
but to leave the matter alone and let the malady have its way and perish by the statute of
limitations.

We had confidence in Darwin, and after that day Susy was relieved of our reformatory persecutions.
She went on lying without let or hindrance during several months, or a year; then the lying
suddenly ceased, and she became as conscientiously and exactingly truthful as she had been
before the attack, and she remained so to the end of her life.

The paragraph in the Record to which I have been leading up is in my handwriting, and is of
a date so long posterior to the time of the lying malady that she had evidently forgotten that
truth-speaking had ever had any difficulties for her.

     Mama was speaking of a servant who had been pretty unveracious, but
     was now "trying to tell the truth." Susy was a good deal surprised,
     and said she shouldn't think anybody would have to try to tell
     the truth.

In the Record the children's acts and speeches quite definitely define their characters. Susy's
indicated the presence of mentality-- thought--and they were generally marked by gravity. She
was timid, on her physical side, but had an abundance of moral courage. Clara was sturdy, independent,
orderly, practical, persistent, plucky--just a little animal, and very satisfactory. Charles
Dudley Warner said Susy was made of mind, and Clara of matter.

When Motley, the kitten, died, some one said that the thoughts of the two children need not
be inquired into, they could be divined: that Susy was wondering if this was the end of Motley,
and had his life been worth while; whereas Clara was merely interested in seeing to it that
there should be a creditable funeral.

In those days Susy was a dreamer, a thinker, a poet and philosopher, and Clara--well, Clara
wasn't. In after-years a passion for music developed the latent spirituality and intellectuality
in Clara, and her practicality took second and, in fact, even third place. Jean was from the
beginning orderly, steady, diligent, persistent; and remains so. She picked up languages easily,
and kept them.

     Susy aged eleven, Jean three.--Susy said the other day when she
     saw Jean bringing a cat to me of her own motion, "Jean has found
     out already that mamma loves morals and papa loves cats."

It is another of Susy's remorselessly sound verdicts.

As a child, Jean neglected my books. When she was nine years old Will Gillette invited her
and the rest of us to a dinner at the Murray Hill Hotel in New York, in order that we might
get acquainted with Mrs. Leslie and her daughters. Elsie Leslie was nine years old, and was
a great celebrity on the stage. Jean was astonished and awed to see that little slip of a thing
sit up at table and take part in the conversation of the grown people, capably and with ease
and tranquillity. Poor Jean was obliged to keep still, for the subjects discussed never happened
to hit her level, but at last the talk fell within her limit and she had her chance to contribute
to it. "Tom Sawyer" was mentioned. Jean spoke gratefully up and said,

"I know who wrote that book--Harriet Beecher Stowe!"

     One evening Susy had prayed, Clara was curled up for sleep; she was
     reminded that it was her turn to pray now. She laid "Oh! one's
     enough," and dropped off to slumber.

     Clara five years old.--We were in Germany. The nurse, Rosa, was
     not allowed to speak to the children otherwise than in German.
     Clara grew very tired of it; by and by the little creature's
     patience was exhausted, and she said "Aunt Clara, I wish God had
     made Rosa in English."

     Clara four years old, Susy six.--This morning when Clara
     discovered that this is my birthday, she was greatly troubled
     because she had provided no gift for me, and repeated her sorrow
     several times. Finally she went musing to the nursery and presently
     returned with her newest and dearest treasure, a large toy horse,
     and said, "You shall have this horse for your birthday, papa."

     I accepted it with many thanks. After an hour she was racing up and
     down the room with the horse, when Susy said,

     "Why Clara, you gave that horse to papa, and now you've tooken it
     again."

     Clara.--"I never give it to him for always; I give it to him for
     his birthday."

     In Geneva, in September, I lay abed late one morning, and as Clara
     was passing through the room I took her on my bed a moment. Then
     the child went to Clara Spaulding and said,

     "Aunt Clara, papa is a good deal of trouble to me."

     "Is he? Why?"

     "Well, he wants me to get in bed with him, and I can't do that with
     jelmuls [gentlemen]--I don't like jelmuls anyway."

     "What, you don't like gentlemen! Don't you like Uncle Theodore
     Crane?"

     "Oh yes, but he's not a jelmul, he's a friend."

                                                     MARK TWAIN.

                       (To be Continued.)

FOOTNOTE:

[15] Cable never travelled Sundays.

NORTH AMERICAN REVIEW

No. DCXVIII.

JULY 5, 1907.

CHAPTERS FROM MY AUTOBIOGRAPHY.--XX.

BY MARK TWAIN.

[Sidenote: (1868.)]

[Notes on "Innocents Abroad." Dictated in Florence, Italy, April, 1904.]--I will begin with
a note upon the dedication. I wrote the book in the months of March and April, 1868, in San
Francisco. It was published in August, 1869. Three years afterward Mr. Goodman, of Virginia
City, Nevada, on whose newspaper I had served ten years before, came East, and we were walking
down Broadway one day when he said: "How did you come to steal Oliver Wendell Holmes's dedication
and put it in your book?"

I made a careless and inconsequential answer, for I supposed he was joking. But he assured
me that he was in earnest. He said: "I'm not discussing the question of whether you stole it
or didn't--for that is a question that can be settled in the first bookstore we come to--I
am only asking you how you came to steal it, for that is where my curiosity is focalized."

I couldn't accommodate him with this information, as I hadn't it in stock. I could have made
oath that I had not stolen anything, therefore my vanity was not hurt nor my spirit troubled.
At bottom I supposed that he had mistaken another book for mine, and was now getting himself
into an untenable place and preparing sorrow for himself and triumph for me. We entered a bookstore
and he asked for "The Innocents Abroad" and for the dainty little blue and gold edition of
Dr. Oliver Wendell Holmes's poems. He opened the books, exposed their dedications and said:
"Read them. It is plain that the author of the second one stole the first one, isn't it?"

I was very much ashamed, and unspeakably astonished. We continued our walk, but I was not able
to throw any gleam of light upon that original question of his. I could not remember ever having
seen Dr. Holmes's dedication. I knew the poems, but the dedication was new to me.

I did not get hold of the key to that secret until months afterward, then it came in a curious
way, and yet it was a natural way; for the natural way provided by nature and the construction
of the human mind for the discovery of a forgotten event is to employ another forgotten event
for its resurrection.

[Sidenote: (1866.)]

I received a letter from the Rev. Dr. Rising, who had been rector of the Episcopal church in
Virginia City in my time, in which letter Dr. Rising made reference to certain things which
had happened to us in the Sandwich Islands six years before; among things he made casual mention
of the Honolulu Hotel's poverty in the matter of literature. At first I did not see the bearing
of the remark, it called nothing to my mind. But presently it did--with a flash! There was
but one book in Mr. Kirchhof's hotel, and that was the first volume of Dr. Holmes's blue and
gold series. I had had a fortnight's chance to get well acquainted with its contents, for I
had ridden around the big island (Hawaii) on horseback and had brought back so many saddle
boils that if there had been a duty on them it would have bankrupted me to pay it. They kept
me in my room, unclothed, and in persistent pain for two weeks, with no company but cigars
and the little volume of poems. Of course I read them almost constantly; I read them from beginning
to end, then read them backwards, then began in the middle and read them both ways, then read
them wrong end first and upside down. In a word, I read the book to rags, and was infinitely
grateful to the hand that wrote it.

Here we have an exhibition of what repetition can do, when persisted in daily and hourly over
a considerable stretch of time, where one is merely reading for entertainment, without thought
or intention of preserving in the memory that which is read. It is a process which in the course
of years dries all the juice out of a familiar verse of Scripture, leaving nothing but a sapless
husk behind. In that case you at least know the origin of the husk, but in the case in point
I apparently preserved the husk but presently forgot whence it came. It lay lost in some dim
corner of my memory a year or two, then came forward when I needed a dedication, and was promptly
mistaken by me as a child of my own happy fancy.

I was new, I was ignorant, the mysteries of the human mind were a sealed book to me as yet,
and I stupidly looked upon myself as a tough and unforgivable criminal. I wrote to Dr. Holmes
and told him the whole disgraceful affair, implored him in impassioned language to believe
that I had never intended to commit this crime, and was unaware that I had committed it until
I was confronted with the awful evidence. I have lost his answer, I could better have afforded
to lose an uncle. Of these I had a surplus, many of them of no real value to me, but that letter
was beyond price, beyond uncledom, and unsparable. In it Dr. Holmes laughed the kindest and
healingest laugh over the whole matter, and at considerable length and in happy phrase assured
me that there was no crime in unconscious plagiarism; that I committed it every day, that he
committed it every day, that every man alive on the earth who writes or speaks commits it every
day and not merely once or twice but every time he opens his mouth; that all our phrasings
are spiritualized shadows cast multitudinously from our readings; that no happy phrase of ours
is ever quite original with us, there is nothing of our own in it except some slight change
born of our temperament, character, environment, teachings and associations; that this slight
change differentiates it from another man's manner of saying it, stamps it with our special
style, and makes it our own for the time being; all the rest of it being old, moldy, antique,
and smelling of the breath of a thousand generations of them that have passed it over their
teeth before!

In the thirty-odd years which have come and gone since then, I have satisfied myself that what
Dr. Holmes said was true.

I wish to make a note upon the preface of the "Innocents." In the last paragraph of that brief
preface, I speak of the proprietors of the "Daily Alta California" having "waived their rights"
in certain letters which I wrote for that journal while absent on the "Quaker City" trip. I
was young then, I am white-headed now, but the insult of that word rankles yet, now that I
am reading that paragraph for the first time in many years, reading it for the first time since
it was written, perhaps. There were rights, it is true--such rights as the strong are able
to acquire over the weak and the absent. Early in '66 George Barnes invited me to resign my
reportership on his paper, the San Francisco "Morning Call," and for some months thereafter
I was without money or work; then I had a pleasant turn of fortune. The proprietors of the
"Sacramento Union," a great and influential daily journal, sent me to the Sandwich Islands
to write four letters a month at twenty dollars apiece. I was there four or five months, and
returned to find myself about the best known honest man on the Pacific Coast. Thomas McGuire,
proprietor of several theatres, said that now was the time to make my fortune--strike while
the iron was hot!--break into the lecture field! I did it. I announced a lecture on the Sandwich
Islands, closing the advertisement with the remark, "Admission one dollar; doors open at half-past
7, the trouble begins at 8." A true prophecy. The trouble certainly did begin at 8, when I
found myself in front of the only audience I had ever faced, for the fright which pervaded
me from head to foot was paralyzing. It lasted two minutes and was as bitter as death, the
memory of it is indestructible, but it had its compensations, for it made me immune from timidity
before audiences for all time to come. I lectured in all the principal Californian towns and
in Nevada, then lectured once or twice more in San Francisco, then retired from the field rich--for
me--and laid out a plan to sail Westward from San Francisco, and go around the world. The proprietors
of the "Alta" engaged me to write an account of the trip for that paper--fifty letters of a
column and a half each, which would be about two thousand words per letter, and the pay to
be twenty dollars per letter.

