"I may believe as much or as little as I please of this," said Manfred; "but I will hear thy
own story before I examine into the truth of it.  Tell me, what reason did the Princess give
thee for making her escape? thy life depends on thy answer."

"She told me," replied Theodore, "that she was on the brink of destruction, and that if she
could not escape from the castle, she was in danger in a few moments of being made miserable
for ever."

"And on this slight foundation, on a silly girl's report," said Manfred, "thou didst hazard
my displeasure?"

"I fear no man's displeasure," said Theodore, "when a woman in distress puts herself under
my protection."

During this examination, Matilda was going to the apartment of Hippolita.  At the upper end
of the hall, where Manfred sat, was a boarded gallery with latticed windows, through which
Matilda and Bianca were to pass.  Hearing her father's voice, and seeing the servants assembled
round him, she stopped to learn the occasion. The prisoner soon drew her attention:  the steady
and composed manner in which he answered, and the gallantry of his last reply, which were the
first words she heard distinctly, interested her in his flavour.  His person was noble, handsome,
and commanding, even in that situation:  but his countenance soon engrossed her whole care.

"Heavens!  Bianca," said the Princess softly, "do I dream? or is not that youth the exact resemblance
of Alfonso's picture in the gallery?"

She could say no more, for her father's voice grew louder at every word.

"This bravado," said he, "surpasses all thy former insolence.  Thou shalt experience the wrath
with which thou darest to trifle.  Seize him," continued Manfred, "and 'bind him--the first
news the Princess hears of her champion shall be, that he has lost his head for her sake."

"The injustice of which thou art guilty towards me," said Theodore, "convinces me that I have
done a good deed in delivering the Princess from thy tyranny.  May she be happy, whatever becomes
of me!"

"This is a lover!" cried Manfred in a rage:  "a peasant within sight of death is not animated
by such sentiments.  Tell me, tell me, rash boy, who thou art, or the rack shall force thy
secret from thee."

"Thou hast threatened me with death already," said the youth, "for the truth I have told thee:
if that is all the encouragement I am to expect for sincerity, I am not tempted to indulge
thy vain curiosity farther."

"Then thou wilt not speak?" said Manfred.

"I will not," replied he.

"Bear him away into the courtyard," said Manfred; "I will see his head this instant severed
from his body."

Matilda fainted at hearing those words.  Bianca shrieked, and cried -

"Help! help! the Princess is dead!"  Manfred started at this ejaculation, and demanded what
was the matter!  The young peasant, who heard it too, was struck with horror, and asked eagerly
the same question; but Manfred ordered him to be hurried into the court, and kept there for
execution, till he had informed himself of the cause of Bianca's shrieks.  When he learned
the meaning, he treated it as a womanish panic, and ordering Matilda to be carried to her apartment,
he rushed into the court, and calling for one of his guards, bade Theodore kneel down, and
prepare to receive the fatal blow.

