"3rdly. I had charge of the Puget Sound Company's affairs, which, with great labour, I placed
upon a satisfactory footing--including the recovery of large sums from Government, and the
terminating complicated and ruinous engagements with bailiffs or tenants and partners. I paid
my expenses to Vancouver's Island, and devoted my whole time to the above matters, from 1st
January, 1857, to the period of my leaving the Island in 1861, without having received one
shilling of recompense. For the latter portion of the time I was paid by the H. B. Co., when
I had the sole charge of its affairs during a most anxious and harassing period--constantly
involved with all around me defending the rights of both companies.

"I say nothing as to my scale of pay under the old Board, but in making the changes which they
did I think they ought not to have assumed that I should continue to act for the same remuneration.

"The pay was not my inducement to come to the country, but when overtures were first made to
me, nothing being said to the contrary, I expected that I should at least receive the same
pay and be placed on an equally good footing with the late Sir George Simpson, who for a number
of years past lived at his ease at Lachine, and attended more, apparently, to his own affairs
than to those of the Company. The latter bear evidence in every district of having been left
entirely to themselves, while extreme discontent prevails in consequence of favouritism having
regulated the promotions.

"Though not a ground of complaint, or a matter requiring redress--yet I may call attention
to the inadequacy of my pay hitherto, when it is taken into account, that, from the unsettled
life I have led in the Company's service, I have been obliged to neglect my private affairs.
I have never received anything for outfit, and I was unlucky enough on my way out to have the
most of our traps burnt the night before we embarked at Liverpool, in the Adelphi Hotel. The
clothes ordered to replace these have all gone to the bottom in the 'Anglo Saxon.'

"I do not allude to these matters now with the view of obtaining higher pay for the future,
as you know my intention is to return to England in the spring, and with the business in fair
working order I can be of more avail there.

"It so happens that the fruits of my labours in America, both as regards the Hudson's Bay and
Puget Sound Companies, will be reaped mainly by the present proprietors. At the same time,
all such claims as the above ought to have been settled up to 31st May last by the old Board.

"A grumbling fellow is, I know, looked upon with great disfavour, especially when there is
nothing more to be got out of him. This, therefore, is intended for your own eye alone. The
substance of my complaint you may make use of as you see fit.

"Excuse this scrawl, and believe me in haste,
                                      "Very truly yours,
                                        "A. G. DALLAS.

"E. WATKIN, Esq., London."

                                      "FORT GARRY, RED RIVER,
                                        "16th October, 1863.

"MY DEAR MR. WATKIN,

"I arrived here on the 9th instant, after a wet, cold, and very miserable ride on horseback,
of 520 miles, from St. Cloud, and was not sorry to get home again.

"After parting from you I went to the Saguenay River and Lake St. John's, where I need say
no more than that my presence was very much wanted. No practical supervision had ever been
exercised over the posts in that district, so far as I could learn.

"Brydges accompanied me to St. Paul; but I could not induce him to come any further, as he
said he had a wife, eleven hundred children, and six miles of railway (more or less of either)
to look after.

"You will doubtless have seen what I have written to the Board in regard to the telegraph across
the Continent. The more I consider the subject the more satisfied I am that next year's operations
ought to be confined to a survey of the line, and to bring the material to Fort Garry. In addition
to sending a practical man, I would recommend that Mr. Wood himself come to Fort Carry. By
following the 'Crow Wing' route he will get a perfect idea of the difficulties to be encountered
along the whole line, as perfectly as a pinch of flour would represent the contents of the
whole sack.

"I wish to call your particular attention to a letter which I have this day addressed to the
Board, upon the subject of Indian claims to lands, and the officious part taken by the editor
of the 'Nor' Wester,' in the hope that you may be able to exercise some influence over the
Duke of Newcastle in prevailing upon him to discourage such men in some marked manner. As my
residence in that country will now be a very short one, and as I have no pecuniary interest
in the Company or the country, I write disinterestedly, and this knowledge may induce his Grace
to pay some attention to my warnings. There will be serious trouble hereafter with the Indians
and half-breeds, unless the local government is better supported, and such men as Ross and
others are discountenanced.

"My interest in the old Company was a nominal one, merely sufficient to qualify myself for
a seat on the Direction. That interest I sold out on accepting my present appointment. During
my residence at Vancouver Island and on this side, I have been working for honorary occupation--my
pay having formed no inducement, and being quite inadequate in countries where, in matters
of expenditure, a dollar passes for little more than a shilling in England, and liable, as
I was, from my wandering life, and with a family--to the losses incurred by a frequent breaking
up of establishment. I allude to these matters, not for the purpose of complaint, but in support
of the position that, as a disinterested and impartial administrator of the affairs entrusted
to my charge, I was actuated by no selfish or pecuniary motives.

"The formation of the colony of British Columbia could not have been carried on as it was but
for the assistance rendered by the H. B. Co., and I considered I was acting as much for the
Government as for the Company, in the services then rendered, which, being unofficial, have
not been in any way recognized. The unscrupulous way in which Douglas wished to saddle all
expenses on the Company, and his attempts to deprive us of the lands which he himself made
over to me as Company's property, led to serious differences between him and me, and which
may have caused me to be looked on with probably a hostile eye by the Government, when I was
actuated by the most impartial motives, and did at the same time everything I could to help
the local government in its elections and other views, where our influence was overwhelming.

"Since assuming office on this side, I have been thoroughly disheartened, in the midst of very
trying and difficult circumstances, between the Americans, Sioux Indians, and local disturbances
on one hand, and the want of any encouragement or support by Government on the other hand.
We have been not only ignored, but the worst enemies of the country have direct access to the
Colonial Office, and though, probably, not attended to, are yet encouraged, from the fact of
their petitions being received. No temptation would induce me to continue longer in office,
even were it considered desirable that I should continue to hold my appointment, which for
the good of the country I ought not. At the same time. Her Majesty's Government cannot continue
much longer to ignore this territory. By such a course they are only sowing the seeds of further
trouble, which I shall not be sorry to escape.

"I am afraid I have let my pen run away with me; but in our isolation local matters absorb
our whole energies, and we look upon the affairs of Europe, or even the fall of Charleston,
as of minor importance.

                                      "Believe me, yours very truly,
                                        "A. G. DALLAS.

"EDWARD WATKIN, Esq., London."

The extract from the "Grit" paper, the "Nor 'Wester" was as follows:--

"THE HUDSON'S BAY TERRITORY.

["From the 'Nor' Wester.']

"IMPORTANT STATEMENT OF PEGOWIS, THE INDIAN CHIEF.

"A few weeks ago, the venerable Chief of the Red River Indians, William King, or 'Pegowis,'
left his home at the Indian Settlement--a most unusual thing for him--and came up to Fort Carry
to make a formal statement, once for all, of the arrangement made by the late Earl of Selkirk
with the Indians of this region in regard to their land. This statement, which he made voluntarily
and deliberately, for the benefit of all whom it may concern, and for future reference if necessary,
he desired to be published in this journal, and a copy thereof to be forwarded to the Duke
of Newcastle. His immediate reason for doing this at present, is, he says, because he is now
the only surviving Chief of the five who treated with Lord Selkirk, and as there have been
many misrepresentations, he desires to see the facts placed on record before he passes off
the earthly stage.

"The following is his account, taken down at his own request, by one of the editors of this
journal:--

"'This transaction happened a long long time ago. I am now a very old man--I was then in the
prime and vigour of manhood. We were taken by surprise when, all of a sudden, those who came
before, disembarked. We had not been apprised of the coming of the foreigners--when they landed,
we were greatly surprised and wondered what they meant. We were in this neighbourhood at the
time. They only spoke among themselves, while the agents of the North-west Company were here.
We did not know what it meant, when they asked the North-westers into the plain. As soon as
they were done speaking among themselves the cannons were fired. We said, "What can it mean?
It must be some great affair." The apparent harmony of the two Companies did not last long.
The same summer differences arose which led to fighting: they fought twice that summer. We
wondered at their proceedings--meeting in friendly council together, and then, immediately
after, taking each others' lives!

"'As soon as the fighting was over, the report came that Lord Selkirk had arrived at Fort William.
The ensuing winter, I called together all the Indians round here--those at Red Lake, at the
Manitobah, and at the mouth of the Red River; I also invited the Crees on the Upper Assiniboine.
"Come," said I--"assemble here--come and listen--this great man cannot be coming for nothing."
A large multitude had gathered here early in the spring, when the Earl arrived with 30 canoes.

"'The day after he arrived, about noon, he sent for us. There were many of us, and we all left
our tents at his call, and marched to the place of conference. There lay before us six kegs.
He said--"Friends, I salute you." Immediately after the salutations, a day was fixed for a
Council. Two personages were appointed to meet us. On the day named, one gentleman arrived,
the other did not. He said--"Let us do without him who did not come." But the other soon came.

"'As soon as we had taken our seats, he said--"Friends, I have come to ask you about the lands,
if you will give them to me. I do not want much--give what you choose. Will you give me as
far from the river as you can distinguish the belly of a horse? It is to put settlers here--
people far off, who have misery in their own country. This is why I want it. They will not
trespass upon or spoil your lands that you retain outside of the limits I have named. I wish
to put inhabitants upon it to cultivate the soil. I will endeavour to make the country like
my own country. If I succeed in accomplishing what I intend, there will be merchants and traders
from one end of the Settlement to the other, who will furnish you with goods. They will be
at a little distance from each other, and you will have a chance of seeking out the best places
for trading. All this I will do, if we can arrange about the land."

"'We were five Chiefs. I represented this district, the other Chiefs, other districts. The
Earl said to me--"Speak you first--how much land will you give me?" I said--"I will speak last:
let the others speak before me." KITCHE OTTAWA (Grand Courte-Oreille) spoke first. He mentioned
Riviere aux Rose Aux. The Earl made no reply to this; whereupon the Chief mentioned as far
as Pembina. The Earl said--Yes. Then he appealed to Mahkatayihkoonaya, Le Grand Noir, and asked
what he would give. He said, from Pembina to Red Lake. Then he turned to La Robe Noir, who
said as far as Portage Laprairie. At this the gentlemen hummed among themselves for a little,
and the end was a question from the Earl. Is there no stream about there which you could mention
as a limit? Mahkatayihkoonayai replied--Yes, there is la Riviere Champignon, a little beyond.
The Earl said--There, that will be the limit. Then he asked Senna the Cree Chief, who said--No,
I do not want agriculturists, I only want traders! The Earl said--Do you think you will ever
see your trader again? (referring to the North-West Company). Never: he (the N. W. Co.) has
done a bad thing--he has killed people. The Earl added--Then you do not wish to get a load
of powder, a knife or a steel from settlers? Well, work diligently at the furs, and you will
find a trader (meaning the H. B. Co.). The nobleman then said to me--Your turn, speak. I said--This
is my place. How much will you give me for the part between this and the Rapids? I will then
go below that. He said--a little further down, if you will. I replied-- Yes, I will give you
to the bend of the river above Sugar Point. That point I like very much--I cannot part with
it--it is for my children. This satisfied the Earl, and he said further--Fear not: the people
I plant here will not trouble your wild animals--they will merely work the soil. If they pass
beyond the two-miles limit, do not allow them: they have no right there. At present we cannot
conclude the arrangement, for I have nothing to pay you with. Let us leave the matter as it
stands. I will come back, and then we will close the negociations. I am in a hurry, and cannot
remain longer, but I will be sure to return. I want to go to the States and get cattle, that
we may eat. That is the meat we eat. Perhaps even you may desire to get some of our cattle
when you see them with the inhabitants here. But before I leave, I would like to give you something
in consideration of the arrangement, which is to be made when I come back. What would you like
to have? I said--Powder is useful to Indians, and tobacco they like--rum, too, they would fain
have. We got what we asked. When we were done speaking, the Earl said--I want you to put your
names to a paper, to show in England what we propose to do. We all said, No--wait till you
come back. He asked us again to sign, but we refused, saying it would be time enough when the
arrangement was completed. The Earl said--If your names were down, it would be easier for me
to conclude the affair when I get back; besides, your young men would see, in the event of
your deaths, what you had proposed to do. So we consented. Our names and marks were put down.
We did not see why he pressed us to sign; but I now think it was in order to have us in his
power, should he not do what he promised. He did not tell us what was in the paper, and I regret
to say we did not even ask him what was in it. That was our ignorance. It was a great mistake,
as after events showed; Lord Selkirk never came back, and never completed the arrangements
about the lands. Our lands have not been bought from us--we have not received payment for them.
We got some things from time to time--small supplies--but less and less as time rolled along,
until we got nothing. These little presents we looked upon as a consideration for the use of
our land until a bargain should be properly made. Besides, we were friendly to the settlers,
and often saved them from harm. We thought this also a reason why we got things. For my part,
there was a great reason why I should receive something, irrespective of the land. I was the
means one time of saving Lord Selkirk's life. When he was going off, some half- breeds wished
to kill him--they asked us to take pemican to an ambush ahead. I refused, and prevented them
doing it. The Earl thanked me for this. The things we got, I repeat, were not in payment for
our lands. We never sold them. We only proposed to do so; but the proposal was never carried
out, as Lord Selkirk never came back. At the time we held council with him, there was no mention
of the Hudson's Bay Company. They were not spoken of, or taken into account at all. All of
a sudden, some years afterwards, it turned out that they were claiming to be masters here.

"'And now I wish this statement to go across the waters to my great and good Mother, and I
pray her to cause a proper settlement to be made with us for our lands, so that our children,
and our children's children, whose lands are being taken possession of by foreigners, may receive
what is just and fair for the loss of their lands. I am old and feeble. I am the only surviving
Chief of those who spoke to Lord Selkirk. I pray the great Mother, whose medal I have, to feel
for us and help us.

                                      "'(Signed)
                                           "WILLIAM KING.'"

I should like here to add a very interesting letter from the agent of the Hudson's Bay Company
in the United States:--

                                      "52, CEDAR STREET, NEW YORK,
                                      "24th August, 1863.

"DEAR SIR,

"If in addressing you, and expressing a sincere hope that you had a pleasant voyage to Liverpool
per the steamer 'Scotia,' I seem to take too much liberty, I beg your pardon, as it is not
my nature to be intrusive'.

"A friend, knowing that I am interested in the fur and skin trade, handed me, to-day, a copy
of the (London) 'Economist' of 4th ulto., calling my attention to the article headed 'The Hudson's
Bay Company.' As you are interested in the 'International Financial Society,' I thought it
proper, even at this late date, to call your attention to the ignorance, if not malice, displayed
by the editor.

"He says: 'Civilization destroys wild animals, we all know. An eager trade destroys them, too.
The moment they become either valuable to man, or disagreeable to man, they cease to live.'
This sounds very like Dr. Johnson, without Dr. Johnson: for any farmer, trapper, or trader
knows, that as the United States territory becomes settled, furred animals increase, because
the refuse of civilization--the hen-roosts, the corn-fields, &c.--feed, directly and indirectly,
the smaller animals, such as musquash, minks, foxes, racoons, opossums, skunks, and others;
but the larger animals, such as buffaloes, bears, wolves, deer, elk, and others, would suffer
from civilization were it not that they retire to the deserts, of which there will be enough
for hundreds of years. Germany (it is said) produces more red-foxes than all America; and wolves
are plentiful in France. As to an 'eager trade,' or excessive hunting, destroying wild animals,
it is impossible. If the 'catch' is excessive this year, the supply will exceed the demand,
and prices will fall; the hunt will be less eager next year, and the animals will increase.
In the March sales in London this year, there were only 3,094 skunks, and the demand was greater
than the supply, so that the price was as high as 7s. 2d., which stimulated the United States
collectors so much that very likely C. M. Lampson & Co. will have about 100,000 in their September
sale, and prices will very likely fall to 1s., or lower. The result will be, that the skunks
will live in peace, and increase and multiply for some years to come. The skunk is the most
'disagreeable' of animals to man; but it is not, therefore, destroyed. I have a catalogue (Row,
Row, Goad & Reece, brokers) of a fur sale (by the candle) at the London Commercial Sale Room,
Mincing Lane, on the 21st and 22nd March, 1821, which I compare below with catalogues of fur
sales in London on 27th and 28th January, and 2nd, 3rd, 4th, 5th, 6th, 9th, and 11th March,
1863. I include January, because musquash and beaver are sold in that month. This statement
does not embrace many other, but lesser, sales, which take place about the same time. A vast
quantity goes direct from here to Germany, which, in past years, went to London.

1821                                                 1863 ----                            
----

    300                   Musquash               1,289,773
  6,380                   Bears                      3,962
   None                   Beaver                    95,557
  8,290                   Otter                     12,933
  3,280                   Fisher                     5,485
108,850                   Martens                   66,827
 10,340                   Minks                     25,989
  8,190                   Foxes                     28,369
  2,500                   Wolves                     3,322
    370                   Wolverines                   918
 57,100                   Racoons                  204,888
   None                   Skunks                     3,094
   None                   Opossums                     560
   None                   Badgers                    1,370
 23,000                   Rabbits                   46,151
  5,631                   Lynx                       4,276
  2,285                   Cats                         100

"Do the above data of forty-two years prove his assertion, that 'the fur trade, by which old
profits were made, is a peculiar trade, tending to disappear' or do they prove the reverse?
The value or price of furs has steadily advanced also.

"Again: 'The hunters in the Hudson's Bay Company are as perishable a race as the animals hunted.'
Any trader knows this is false, except in the sense that we are all perishable. Applied to
the United States Indians, it is true, from the cause assigned--rum--and worse causes-- the
vices of civilization. The cost of transportation to any portion of the Hudson's Bay territory
heretofore has been so great that the rum used there must, to be profitable, be the purest
that can be found, as there is water enough in Prince Rupert's Land with which to dilute it:
so that what the Indian gets will not hurt him. The rivers in the United States (the Mississippi,
the Missouri, the Yellowstone, the Arkansas, the Platte, and others) easily and cheaply carry
'rot- gut' and death to the United States Indian. It seems to be the aim, and will be the gain,
of the United States to exterminate the Indian; it ought to be the aim, and would be the gain,
of the 'International Financial Society' to preserve him.

"Again: 'The climate forbids effectual fertility, and the distance from more habitable regions
forbids effectual transit. The regions to be colonized are mostly very cold and very barren.'
If such is the case, of what value, applied to the new Company, are his assertions: 'Civilization
destroys wild animals,' &c., and 'The hunters are as perishable,' &c.? The shareholders of
the International Financial Society need have no fears of a failure of the fur trade, whatever
may become of the 'sale of lands to new settlements, and the communication with British Columbia.'

"Again: 'In fact, the whole of the Red River region, such as it is, is best accessible from
the United States, and, in case of war, would be exposed to an inroad from Minnesota, which
adjoins it, without the possibility of aid from England.' If the editor would undertake to
travel from St. Paul to Pembina (about 600 miles), and also read the accounts of expeditions
in pursuit of hostile Indians in Minnesota, he would quickly get rid of his fear of the Americans
ever invading the British North Western Territory. One of my correspondents, an old Indian
trader, writes me on the 30th ult. that he had just reached Pembina, after a 'dirty and disagreeable
trip' of 25 days from St. Paul. So long as the British Indians are treated as they have been,
they could, and they would, sweep Minnesota clean of any army, even although as invincible
as the 'army of the Potomac.' Even if the redskins did not want help, the United States Indians
would unite with the British Indians, in order to be revenged on the pale faces.

"To my mind, the worst feature in the new Company is that of allowing a foreigner (American)
to hold office. He owes allegiance to the United States, and his position gives him, knowledge
which no American should possess. 'Blood is thicker than water,' says the proverb. Besides,
he has his own fur trade to attend to, and it is as true now, as it was in old times, that
'no man can serve two masters.' Although he should withdraw from his own firm, still 'blood
is thicker than water.' As to the idea that, being in the fur trade, his experience and influence
will benefit the new Company, will any furrier believe that? If the new Company will sell all
the furs they may have in their warehouse at the time of their regular sales, HOLDING BACK
NONE TO RAISE PRICES, they will always have the confidence of the buyers, always get full value,
and never require the influence or experience of any man. I am, unfortunately for myself, not
a shareholder in either the old or the new Company, but if I were, I would never rest satisfied
while an American was in the management.

"Should you ever visit this city, I will feel honoured if you call on me, and be glad to hear
from you, or be of service to you, at any time.

                                      "With great respect, yours truly,
                                        "WM. MACNAUGHTAN.

"E. W. Watkin, Esquire, "Care Hon. Hudson's Bay Co., London."

                                "Dunean, Inverness,
                                  "29th October, 1872. Midnight.

"My dear Sir Edward,

"Your letter reached me to-night, just in the nick of tune, and I enclose a letter which I
was just about to send to the Editor of the London 'Standard.' Please send it to that or any
other paper you like, barring the 'Times,' 'Saturday Review,' or 'Pall Mall Gazette.' I wrote
another letter to the 'Times,' by which they corrected the discrepancy between their statement
of the 18th Oct. and that of the 26th, that the Emperor had three channels to consider, but
they never published or acknowledged my letter. I suppose because it exposed their blunder,
and attacked the Government. I had written both to the 'Pall Mall' and 'Saturday Review' in
summer, pointing out that we had virtually surrendered our position by departing from the words
of the Treaty of 1846, on the American demand; but for certain reasons they would not publish
the letter, and you will observe that they now refrain from laying the blame on our Government.
You must read carefully the articles in the 'Times' of 18, 25 and 26 October, and in the 'Standard'
of Saturday last. The 'Standard' attacks our Government fairly and ably. You may give my name
as the writer of the enclosed letter, but not for publication, as I do not wish to make an
enemy of the 'Times.' Send me a copy of the paper in which it may appear, or make any use you
may like of it.

"I send you Tuckerman's Report. It is very satisfactory and re- assuring.

"I and some others here were much pleased at your expose of Fowler. He tried to set up here
as the cock of all our railways, but he got the worst of it, and now he has got his quietus
(that is, if you intend to let him rest), and has lost what he was very ambitious of, viz.,
high social position in the North. The Duke of Sutherland and others with whom he had gained
a footing, have given him the cold shoulder, and I hope you will, by some means or other, enlighten
his friends at the Egyptian Embassy. I may write a few lines to you tomorrow--being now in
great haste,

                                      "Yours truly,
                                        "A. G. DALLAS.

"P.S.--I have not kept a copy of my San Juan letter, which I have only just hurriedly written."

                                      "Dunean, Inverness, N.B.
                                        "30 October, 1872.

"My dear Sir Edward,

"I wrote you a few hurried lines last night, with an enclosure, for publication, on the subject
of the San Juan Arbitration.

"In the 'Times' of yesterday there is a letter signed 'The Ghost,' which, like all that the
'Times' permits to appear in its columns, is intended to throw dust in the eyes of the public,
and direct attention from the real authors of the calamity, viz., the present Government, to
that of Lord Aberdeen, or the German Emperor. The letter says, 'It is difficult to understand
how an arbitrator could have accepted the task imposed upon him,' &c., alluding to his being
debarred from deciding on the middle channel. An arbitrator will, of course, decide upon any
conditions laid down; but is it not much more difficult to understand why we should have imposed
such conditions on the arbitrator, on the demand of America, when we had the simple words of
the Treaty to go by?

"The same letter, in alluding to Harney's invasion, says, 'It is pleasant to remember how promptly
the American Government disavowed the act of their officer.' They never did so practically.
They never withdrew the offensive troops, and forced us to maintain an equal number of men
there since that date, at who can tell what cost to this country, and for what good end?

"In considering the main question, I all along held that we erred in claiming the Rosario Channel;
for the reason that although I have no doubt whatever it was the channel intended in the Treaty
(as against the Haro Channel, and excluding consideration of the middle channel), we cannot
prove to demonstration that it was so. In getting up a grievance it is now doubly dangerous
to claim it, as we know that, comparing it with the Haro Channel, it is decided against us,
on what we must suppose to be good reasons. On the above contention, too, we absolve our Government
of their blunder, and make a scape-goat of the Emperor of Germany. The words of the Treaty
define the boundary to be a line drawn southerly through the centre of the channel from the
centre of the channel separating Vancouver's Island from the mainland. Had the existence of
three channels been then known, one of them--the one meant--would certainly have been named.
Only one channel, Rosario, was known at the time, and the presumption is that it was meant.
Making too sure of this we claimed it. It is, however, clear to my mind that the whole space
between the Continent and Vancouver Island was treated as one channel. The Douglas, or middle
channel, would then fulfil to the letter the words of the Treaty, and give us all we wanted,
and still leave a channel free to the Americans. It was, I contend, a fatal error to abandon
this position. Having done so and departed from the words of the Treaty, it was really a toss
up which of the two other channels was selected by the umpire. Though we argued that Rosario
was the only channel known at the time of the Treaty, the Americans argue (as you know how)
that it was not so, and moreover that there was no intention to give us more than Vancouver
Island. Why such a red herring as this was allowed to decoy us from the straight path of the
words of the Treaty is what, in the words of Dundreary, 'No fellah can understand.'

"I hope I have made myself clear to you, and that you will ventilate the subject in Canada
(through the press), where and in British Columbia there must be a deep feeling of disappointment
and disgust, without a just appreciation of how we came to be so befooled.

"Don't forget to send me any paper that may be published on the subject through you. I feel
as if I had been personally swindled and insulted, and have lost all confidence in our present
ministry. I am writing this again at midnight, having been from home all day.

                                      "Yours truly,
                                        "A. G. DALLAS.

"P.S.--Laing passed through Inverness to-day, on his way to canvass the Orkneys."

At Victoria, Vancouver's Island, in a fine position fronting the sea, there is a granite pedestal
to record the services of Sir James Douglas, K.C.B., the father-in-law of Governor Dallas.
The services of Sir James, were rendered to the great benefit, not only of the island, but
of British Columbia generally. The colonist roads along the great mountain sides, across rivers,
and, through the forests, are of his doing, with the practical co-operation of ex-Governor
Trutch, a very able engineer; and to Douglas, Trutch, Sir Mathew Begbie, Mr. Dunsmuir, and
a few others, the order, obedience to the law, and progress of the country must be mainly attributed.
But no stone marks the services of Governor Dallas; no honour was offered him by our Government
at home; and he received scant reward from the Governor and Committee of the Hudson's Bay Company
sitting in London. Surely those who have profited by his self-denying labours might consider
whether his great services should be allowed to fall into oblivion for want of some adequate
monument to his memory.

CHAPTER XVI.

The Honorable Thomas d'Arcy McGee.

Amongst the men, able and earnest, who carried the union of the British, separated, Provinces,
and made the "Dominion," no man gave more soul and substance to the cause, by his eloquence,
than Mr. d'Arcy McGee. His had been a chequered career. Beginning, like Sir George Etienne
Cartier, in revolt against what he believed to be British tyranny, he ended his life, one of
the most loyal, as he was one of the most eloquent, of Her Majesty's subjects. In 1848 he was
one of the "Young Ireland" party, and became an exile from his country; and, at length, a denizen
of the United States. From thence he came to Canada. In Canada he found all the liberty, without
very much of the license, of politicians in the United States. In Canada he could think for
himself; in the United States he must think the thoughts of some secret organization--or perish.
In Canada he was welcomed, and soon made a position. I first met him, in a casual way, in Ireland,
in the time of O'Connell, I think in 1844; and in 1861 I made his acquaintance, and I knew
him well until his untimely death, by Fenian assassination, at Ottawa. He had faults--what
politician has not? But he was honorable and kindly; no man's enemy, unless it were his own.
He was remarkable in appearance; of middle height, very dark complexion, and with hair so curious
and curly that he always joked about his popularity with the negroes of Canada. He told a story
of a meeting in Montreal at a little public-house called "Uncle Tom's Cabin." Here he was addressing
an audience containing a considerable number of dark men. Mr. Holton, his colleague, had orated
about differential duties, very dry and Yankee- like, as usual. McGee followed in one of his
arousing speeches. When he sat down, the respected negro landlord of "Uncle Tom's Cabin" got
up to move a vote of confidence. And, according to McGee's story, said: "Bredren, we all on
us heah came to dis land on a venter. Mr. McGee he came heah on a venter. Dis child know nothing
bout dem disgreable duties. All we wants, bredren, is to pick out de best man. How is we to
do dat? Bredren, best way is to follow de hair. Mr. McGee has hair like good nigger. Bredren,
let us follow our hair." The result was McGee was adopted unanimously.

In 1865 a volume of Mr. McGee's speeches was published by Chapman & Hall. He did me the favour
to dedicate the book to me in these, too complimentary, terms: "To E. W. Watkin, Esq., M.P.
for Stockport, whose intimate connection with many great enterprises in which the material
future of British America is interwoven, and, still more, whose high- spirited advocacy of
a sound Colonial policy, both in and out of Parliament, has conferred lasting obligations,
upon these Provinces, this volume is very sincerely and cordially dedicated."

The last speech in this volume was delivered in the Legislative Assembly of Canada, at Quebec,
on the 9th February, 1865. I venture to record some portion of it in this book:--

"With your approbation, Sir, and the forbearance of the House, I will endeavour to treat this
subject in this way:--First, to give some slight sketch of the history of the question; then
to examine the existing motives which ought to prompt us to secure a speedy union of these
Provinces; then to speak of the difficulties which this question has encountered before reaching
its present fortunate stage; then to say something of the mutual advantages, in a social rather
than political point of view, which these Provinces will have in their union; and, lastly,
to add a few words on the Federal principle in general: when I shall have done. In other words,
I propose to consider the question of Union mainly from within, and, as far as possible, to
avoid going over the ground already so fully and so much better occupied by hon. friends who
have already spoken upon the subject.

"So far back as the year 1800, the Hon. Mr. Uniacke, a leading politician in Nova Scotia at
that date, submitted a scheme of Colonial Union to the Imperial authorities. In 1815, Chief
Justice Sewell, whose name will be well remembered as a leading lawyer of this city, and a
far-sighted politician, submitted a similar scheme. In 1822, Sir John Beverley Robinson, at
the request of the Colonial Office, submitted a project of the same kind; and I need not refer
to the report of Lord Durham, on Colonial Union, in 1839. These are all memorable, and some
of them are great, names. If we have dreamed a dream of Union (as some of you gentlemen say),
it is at least worth while remarking that a dream which has been dreamed by such wise and good
men, may, for aught we know, or you know, have been a sort of vision--a vision foreshadowing
forthcoming natural events in a clear intelligence: a vision--I say it without irreverence,
for the event concerns the lives of millions living, and yet to come--resembling those seen
by the Daniels and Josephs of old, foreshadowing the trials of the future, the fate of tribes
and peoples, the rise and fall of dynasties. But the immediate history of the measure is sufficiently
wonderful, without dwelling on the remoter predictions of so many wise men. Whoever, in 1862,
or even in 1863, would have told us that we should see even what we see in these seats by which
I stand--such a representation of interests acting together, would be accounted, as our Scotch
friends say, 'half daft'; and whoever, in the Lower Provinces, about the same time, would have
ventured to foretell the composition of their delegations which sat with us under this roof
last October, would probably have been considered equally demented. But the thing came about;
and if those gentlemen who have had no immediate hand in bringing it about, and, therefore,
naturally feel less interest in the project than we who had, will only give us the benefit
of the doubt-- will only assume that we are not all altogether wrong-headed--we hope to show
them still farther, though we think we have already shown them satisfactorily, that we are
by no means without reason in entering on this enterprise. I submit, however, we may very well
dismiss the antecedent history of the question for the present: it grew from an unnoticed feeble
plant, to be a stately and flourishing tree; and, for my part, any one that pleases may say
he made the tree grow, if I can only have hereafter my fair share of the shelter and the shade.
But in the present stage of the question, the first real stage of its success --the thing that
gave importance to theory in men's minds, was the now celebrated despatch, signed by two members
of this Government and an honourable gentleman formerly their colleague (Hon. Mr. Ross), a
member of the other House. I refer to the despatch of 1858. The recommendations in that despatch
lay dormant until revived by the Constitutional Committee of last Session, which led to the
Coalition, which led to the Quebec Conference, which led to the draft of the Constitution now
on our table, which will lead, I am fain to believe, to the union of all these Provinces. At
the same time that we mention these distinguished politicians, I think we ought not to forget
those zealous and laborious contributors to the public press, who, although not associated
with governments, and not themselves at the time in politics, yet greatly contributed to give
life and interest to this question, and, indirectly, to bring it to the happy position in which
it now stands. Of those gentlemen I will mention two. I do not know whether honorable gentlemen
of this House have seen some letters on Colonial Union, written in 1855--the last addressed
to the late Duke of Newcastle--by Mr. P. S. Hamilton, an able public writer of Nova Scotia,
and the present Gold Commissioner of that province; but I take this opportunity of bearing
my testimony to his well-balanced judgment, political sagacity, and the skilful handling the
subject received from him at a very early period. There is another little book, written in
English, six or seven years ago, to which I must refer. It is a pamphlet, which met with an
extraordinary degree of success, entitled Nova Britannia, by my honorable friend, the member
for South Lanark (Mr. Morris); and as he has been one of the principal agents in bringing into
existence the present Government, which is now carrying out the idea embodied in his book,
I trust he will forgive me if I take the opportunity, although he is present, of reading a
single sentence, to show how far he was in advance, and how true he was to the coming event
which we are now considering. At page 57 of his pamphlet--which I hope will be reprinted among
the political miscellanies of the Provinces when we are one country and one people--I find
this paragraph:--

"'The dealing with the destinies of a future Britannic empire, the shaping its course, the
laying its foundations broad and deep, and the erecting thereon a noble and enduring superstructure,
are indeed duties that may well evoke the energies of our people, and nerve the arms and give
power and enthusiasm to the aspirations of all true patriots. The very magnitude of the interests
involved, will, I doubt not, elevate many amongst us above the demands of mere sectionalism,
and enable them to evince sufficient comprehensiveness of mind to deal in the spirit of real
statesmen with issues so momentous, and to originate and develop a national line of commercial
and general policy, such as will prove adapted to the wants and exigencies of our position.'

"We, on this side, Mr. Speaker, propose for that better future our plan of Union; and, if you
will allow me, I shall go over what appear to me the principal motives which exist at present
for that Union. My hon. friend the Finance Minister mentioned the other evening several strong
motives for Union--free access to the sea, an extended market, breaking down of hostile tariffs,
a more diversified field for labour and capital, our enhanced credit with England, and our
greater effectiveness when united for assistance in time of danger. The Hon. President of the
Council, last night also enumerated several motives for Union in relation to the commercial
advantages which will flow from it, and other powerful reasons which may be advanced in favour
of it. But the motives to such a comprehensive change as we propose, must be mixed motives--partly
commercial, partly military, and partly political; and I shall go over a few--not strained
or simulated-- motives which must move many people of all these Provinces, and which are rather
of a social, or, strictly speaking, political than of a financial kind. In the first place,
I echo what was stated in the speech last night of my hon. friend, the President of the Council--that
we cannot stand still; we cannot stave off some great change; we cannot stand alone--Province
apart from Province--if we would; and that we are in a state of political transition. All,
even honorable gentlemen who are opposed to this description of Union, admit that we must do
something, and that that something must not be a mere temporary expedient. We are compelled,
by warning voices from within and without, to make a change, and a great change. We all, with
one voice who are Unionists, declare our conviction that we cannot go on as we have gone; but
you, who are all anti-Unionists, say--'Oh! that is begging the question; you have not yet proved
that.' Well, Mr. Speaker, what proofs do the gentlemen want? I presume there are the influences
which determine any great change in the course of any individual or State. First--His patron,
owner, employer, protector, ally, or friend; or, in our politics, 'Imperial connection.' Secondly--His
partner, comrade, or fellow-labourer, or near neighbour; in our case, the United States. And,
thirdly,--The man himself, or the Province itself. Now, all three have concurred to warn and
force us into a new course of conduct. What are these warnings? We have had at least three.
The first is from England, and is a friendly warning. England has warned us by several matters
of fact, according to her custom, rather than verbiage, that the Colonies had entered upon
a new era of existence, a new phase in their career. She has given us this warning in several
different shapes--when she gave us 'Responsible Government'--when she adopted Free Trade--when
she repealed the Navigation Laws--and when, three or four years ago, she commenced that series
of official despatches in relation to militia and defence which she has ever since poured in
on us, in a steady stream, always bearing the same solemn burthen- 'Prepare! prepare! prepare!'
These warnings gave us notice that the old order of things between the Colonies and the Mother
Country had ceased, and that a new order must take its place. About four years ago, the first
despatches began to be addressed to this country, from the Colonial Office, upon the subject.
From that day to this there has been a steady stream of despatches in this direction, either
upon particular or general points connected with our defence; and I venture to say, that if
bound up together, the despatches of the lamented Duke of Newcastle alone would make a respectable
volume--all notifying this Government, by the advices they conveyed, that the relations--the
military apart from the political and commercial relations--of this Province to the Mother
Country had changed; and we were told in the most explicit language that could be employed,
that we were no longer to consider ourselves, in relation to defence, in the same position
we formerly occupied towards the Mother Country. Then, Sir, in the second place, there came
what I may call the other warning from without--the American warning. Republican America gave
us her notices in times past, through her press, and her demagogues, and her statesmen, but
of late days she has given us much more intelligible notices--such as the notice to abrogate
the Reciprocity Treaty, and to arm the lakes, contrary to the provisions of the Convention
of 1818. She has given us another notice in imposing a vexatious passport system; another in
her avowed purpose to construct a ship canal round the falls of Niagara, so as 'to pass war
vessels from Lake Ontario to Lake Erie;' and yet another, the most striking one of all, has
been given to us, if we will only understand it, by the enormous expansion of the American
army and navy. I will take leave to read to the House a few figures which show the amazing,
the unprecedented, growth (which has not, perhaps, a parallel in the annals of the past) of
the military power of our neighbours, within the past three or four years. I have the details
here by me, but shall only read the results, to show the House the emphatic terms of this most
serious warning. In January, 1861, the regular army of the United States, including of course
the whole of the States, did not exceed 15,000 men. This number was reduced, from desertion
and other causes, by 5,000 men, leaving 10,000 men as the regular army of the United States.
In December, 1862, that is, from January, 1861, to January, 1863, this army of 10,000 was increased
to 800,000 soldiers actually in the service. No doubt there are exaggerations in some of these
figures--the rosters were, doubtless, in some cases filled with fictitious names, in order
to procure the bounties that were offered; but if we allow two-thirds as correct, we find that
a people who had an army of 10,000 men in 1861, had in two years increased it to an army of
600,000 men. As to their munitions and stock of war material at the opening of the war--that
is to say, at the date of the attack upon Fort Sumter--we find that they had of siege and heavy
guns 1,952; of field artillery, 231; of infantry firearms, 473,000; of cavalry firearms, 31,000;
and of ball and shell, 363,000. At the end of 1863, the latest period to which I have statistics
upon the subject, the 1,052 heavy guns had become 2,116; the 231 field pieces had become 2,965;
the 473,000 infantry arms had become 2,423,000; the 31,000 cavalry arms had become 369,000;
and the 363,000 ball and shell had become 2,925,000. Now as to the navy of the United States,
I wish also to show that this wonderful development of war power in the United States is the
second warning we have had, that we cannot go on as we have gone. In January, 1861, the ships
of war belonging to the United States were 83; in December, 1864, they numbered 671, of which
54 were monitors and iron-clads, carrying 4,610 guns, with a tonnage of 510,000 tons, and manned
by a force of 51,000 men. These are frightful figures; frightful for the capacity of destruction
they represent, for the heaps of carnage they represent, for the quantity of human blood spilt
they represent, for the lust of conquest they represent, for the evil passions they represent,
and for the arrest of the onward progress of civilization they represent. But it is not the
figures which give the worst view of the fact--for England still carries more guns afloat even
than our well-armed neighbours. It is the change which has taken place in the spirit of the
people of the Northern States themselves which is the worst view of the fact. How far have
they travelled since the humane Channing preached the unlawfulness of war--since the living
Sumner delivered his addresses to the Peace Society on the same theme! I remember an accomplished
poet, one of the most accomplished the New England States have ever produced, taking very strong
grounds against the prosecution of the Mexican war, and published the Bigelow Papers, so well
known in American literature, to show the ferocity and criminality of war. That poet made Mr.
Bird-o'-Freedom Sawin sing:

                 "'Ef you take a soaord an droar it,
                   An go stick a feller thru,
                   Guv'ment won't answer for it,
                   God'll send the bill to you!'

This was slightly audacious and irreverent in expression, but it was remarkably popular in
New England at that time. The writer is now one of the editors of a popular Boston periodical,
and would be one of the last, I have no doubt, to induce a Northern soldier to withdraw his
sword from the body of any unhappy Southerner whom he had, contrary to the poet's former political
ethics, 'stuck thru.' But it is not the revolution wrought in the minds of men of great intelligence
that is most to be deplored--for the powerful will of such men may compel their thoughts back
again to a philosophy of peace; no, it is the mercenary and military interests created under
Mr. Lincoln which are represented, the former by an estimated governmental outlay of above
$100,000,000 this year, and the other by the 800,000 men, whose blood is thus to be bought
and paid for; by the armies out of uniform who prey upon the army in uniform; by the army of
contractors who are to feed and clothe and arm the fighting million; by that other army, the
army of tax- collectors, who cover the land, seeing that no industry escapes unburthened, no
possession unentered, no affection even, untaxed. Tax! tax! tax! is the cry from the rear!
Blood! blood! blood! is the cry from the front! Gold! gold! gold! is the chuckling undertone
which comes up from the mushroom millionaires, well named a shoddy aristocracy. Nor do I think
the army interest, the contracting interest, and the tax-gathering interest, the worst results
that have grown out of this war. There is another and equally serious interest-- the revolution
in the spirit, mind, and principles of the people, that terrible change which has made war
familiar and even attractive to them. When the first battle was fought--when, in the language
of the Duke of Wellington, the first 'butcher's bill was sent in'--a shudder of horror ran
through the length and breadth of the country; but by- and-by, as the carnage increased, no
newspaper was considered worth laying on the breakfast table unless it contained the story
of the butchery of thousands of men.

'Only a thousand killed! Pooh, pooh, that's nothing!' exclaimed Mr. Shoddy, as he sipped his
coffee--in his luxurious apartment; and nothing short of the news of ten or fifteen thousand
maimed or slain in a day could satisfy the jaded palate of men craving for excitement, and
such horrible excitement as attends the wholesale murder of their fellow-creatures. Have these
sights and sounds no warning addressed to us? Are we as those who have eyes and see not; ears
and hear not; reason, neither do they understand? If we are true to Canada--if we do not desire
to become part and parcel of this people--we cannot overlook this, the greatest revolution
of our own times. Let us remember this, that when the three cries among our next neighbours
are shoddy, taxation, blood, it is tune for us to provide for our own security. I said, in
this House, during the session of the year 1861, that the first gun fired at Fort Sumter had
a 'message for us;' I was unheeded then; I repeat now that every one of the 2,700 great guns
in the field, and every one of the 4,600 guns afloat, whenever it opens its mouth, repeats
the solemn warning of England---Prepare! prepare! prepare! I think, Sir, I am justified in
regarding the American conflict, as one of the warnings we have received; and the third warning,
that things cannot go on in this country as they are, is a warning voice from within--a warning
voice from our own experience in the government of these Provinces. On these internal constitutional
difficulties existing among ourselves, which were so fully exposed last evening by my hon.
friend, the President of the Council, I need say little; they are admitted to have been real,
not imaginary, on all hands. An illustration was used in another place in explaining this part
of the subject by the venerable and gallant knight, our Premier, than which nothing could be
more clear. He observed that when we had had five administrations within four years, it was
full time to look out for some permanent remedy for such a state of things. True--most true--
Constitutional Government among us had touched its lowest point when it existed only by the
successful search of a messenger or a page after a member willingly or unwillingly absent from
his seat. Any one might in those days have been the saviour of his country. All he had to do
was, when one of the five successive Governments which arose in four years was in danger, to
rise in his place, say 'Yea!' and presto the country was saved. This House was fast losing,
under such a state of things, its hold on the country; the administrative departments were
becoming disorganized under such frequent changes of chiefs and policies; we were nearly as
bad as the army of the Potomac before its 'permanent remedy' was found in General Grant. Well,
we have had our three warnings: one warning from within and two from without. Some honorable
gentlemen, while admitting that we have entered, within the present decade, on a period of
political transition, have contended that we might have bridged the abyss with that Prussian
pontoon called a Zollverein. But if any one for a moment will remember that the trade of the
whole front of New Brunswick and Nova Scotia gravitates at present along-shore to Portland
and Boston, while the trade of Upper Canada, west of Kingston, has long gravitated across the
lakes to New York, he will see, I think, that a mere Zollverein treaty without a strong political
end to serve, and some political power at its back, would be, in our new circumstances, merely
waste paper. The charge that we have not gone far enough--that we have not struck out boldly
for a Consolidated Union, instead of a union with reserved local jurisdictions--is another
charge which deserves some notice. To this I answer that if we had had, as was proposed, an
Intercolonial Railway twenty years ago, we might by this time have been perhaps, and only perhaps,
in a condition to unite into one consolidated government; but certain politicians and capitalists
having defeated that project twenty years ago, special interests took the place great general
interest might by this time have occupied; vested rights and local ambitions arose and were
recognized; and all these had to be admitted as existing in a pretty advanced stage of development
when the late conferences were called together. The lesson to be learned from this squandering
of quarter centuries by British Americans is this, that if we lose the present propitious opportunity,
we may find it as hard a few years hence to get an audience, even for any kind of union (except
democratic union), as we should have found it to get a hearing last year for a legislative
union, from the long period of estrangement and non- intercourse which had existed between
these Provinces, and the special interests which had grown up in the meantime in each of them.
Another motive to union, or rather a phase of the last motive spoken of, is this, that the
policy of our neighbours to the south of us has always been aggressive. There has always been
a desire amongst them for the acquisition of new territory, and the inexorable law of democratic
existence seems to be its absorption. They coveted Florida, and seized it; they coveted Louisiana,
and purchased it; they coveted Texas, and stole it; and then they picked a quarrel with Mexico,
which ended by their getting California. They sometimes pretend to despise these our colonies
as prizes beneath their ambition; but had we not had the strong arm of England over us we should
not now have had a separate existence. The acquisition of Canada was the first ambition of
the American Confederacy, and never ceased to be so, when her troops were a handful and her
navy scarce a squadron. Is it likely to be stopped now, when she counts her guns afloat by
thousands and her troops by hundreds of thousands? On this motive a very powerful expression
of opinion has lately appeared in a published letter of the Archbishop of Halifax, Dr. Connolly.
Who is the Archbishop of Halifax? In either of the coast colonies, where he has laboured in
his high vocation for nearly a third of a century, it would be absurd to ask the question;
but in Canada he may not be equally well known. Some of my honorable friends in this and the
other House, who were his guests last year, must have felt the impress of his character as
well as the warmth of his hospitality.

Well, he is known as one of the first men in sagacity, as he is in position, in any of these
colonies; that he was for many years the intimate associate of his late distinguished confrere,
Archbishop Hughes of New York; that he knows the United States as thoroughly as he does the
Provinces,--and these are his views on this particular point; the extract is somewhat long,
but so excellently put that I am sure the House will be obliged to me for the whole of it:--

"Instead of cursing, like the boy in the upturned boat, and holding on until we are fairly
on the brink of the cataract, we must at once begin to pray and strike out for the shore by
all means, before we get too far down on the current. We must at this most critical moment
invoke the Arbiter of nations for wisdom, and abandoning in time our perilous position, we
must strike out boldly, and at some risks, for some rock on the nearest shore--some resting-place
of greater security. A cavalry raid, or a visit from our Fenian friends on horseback, through
the plains of Canada and the fertile valleys of New Brunswick and Nova Scotia, may cost more
in a single week than Confederation for the next fifty years; and if we are to believe you,
where is the security even at the present moment against such a disaster? Without the whole
power of the Mother Country by land and sea, and the concentration in a single hand of all
the strength of British America, our condition is seen at a glance. Whenever the present difficulties
will terminate--and who can tell the moment?--we will be at the mercy of our neighbours; and,
victorious or otherwise, they will be eminently a military people, and with all their apparent
indifference about annexing this country, and all the friendly feelings that may be talked,
they will have the power to strike when they please; and this is precisely the kernel and the
only touch-point of the whole question. No nation ever had the power of conquest that did not
use it, or abuse it, at the very first favourable opportunity. All that is said of the magnanimity
and forbearance of mighty nations can be explained on the principle of sheer inexpediency,
as the world knows. The whole face of Europe has been changed, and the dynasties of many hundred
years have been swept away within our own time, on the principle of might alone--the oldest,
the strongest, and, as some would have it, the most sacred of all titles. The thirteen original
States of America, with all their professions of self-denial, have been all the time, by money,
power, and by war, and by negociation, extending their frontier until they more than quadrupled
their territory within sixty years; and believe it who may, are they now of their own accord
to come to a full stop? No; as long as they have the power, they must go on onward: for it
is the very nature of power to grip whatever is within its reach. It is not their hostile feelings,
therefore, but it is their power, and only their power, I dread; and I now state it as my solemn
conviction, that it becomes the duty of every British subject in these Provinces to control
that power, not by the insane policy of attacking or weakening them, but by strengthening ourselves--rising,
with the whole power of Britain at our back, to their level, and so be prepared for any emergency.
There is no sensible or unprejudiced man in the community who does not see that vigorous and
timely preparation is the only possible means of saving us from the horrors of a war such as
the world has never seen. To be fully prepared is the only practical argument that can have
weight with a powerful enemy, and make him pause beforehand and count the cost. And as the
sort of preparation I speak of is utterly hopeless without the union of the Provinces, so at
a moment when public opinion is being formed on this vital point, as one deeply concerned,
I feel it a duty to declare myself unequivocally in favour of Confederation as cheaply and
as honourably as possible--but Confederation at all hazards and at all reasonable sacrifices.

"'After the most mature consideration, and all the arguments I have heard on both sides for
the last month, these are my inmost convictions on the necessity and merits of a measure which
alone, under Providence, can secure to us social order and peace, and rational liberty, and
all the blessings we now enjoy, under the mildest Government and the hallowed institutions
of the freest and happiest country in the world.'

"These are the words of a statesman--of a mitred statesman--one of that order of mighty men,
powerful in their generation, whose statesmanly gifts have been cast in the strong mould of
theological discipline-- such men as were Ximenes and Wolsey, Laud and Knox. The next motive
for Union to which I shall refer is, that it will strengthen rather than weaken the connection
with the Empire, so essential to these rising Provinces. Those who may be called, if there
are any such, the anti- Unionists, allege, that this scheme now submitted will bring separation
in its train. How, pray? By making these countries more important, will you make them less
desirable as connections to England? By making their trade more valuable, will you make her
more anxious to get rid of it? By reducing their Federal tariff, will you lessen their interest
for England? By making them stronger for each other's aid, will you make her less willing to
discharge a lighter than a greater responsibility? But if the thing did not answer itself,
England has answered that she 'cordially approves' of our plan of Union,--and she has always
been accounted a pretty good judge of her own Imperial interests. She does not consider our
union inimical to those interests. Instead of looking upon it with a dark and discouraging
frown, she cheers us on by her most cordial approval, and bids us a hearty 'God speed' in the
new path we have chosen to enter. But I put it on provincial grounds as well. When Canada proposed
to move, in 1859, Newfoundland alone responded; when Nova Scotia moved, in 1860, New Brunswick
alone agreed to go with her; at all events, Canada did not then concur. Of late years the language
of the Colonial Office, of Mr. Labouchere, of Sir Bulwer Lytton, and of the lamented Duke of
Newcastle, was substantially: 'Agree among yourselves, gentlemen, and we will not stand in
the way.' Ah! there was the rub--'Agree among yourselves!' Easier said than done, with five
Colonies so long estranged, and whose former negotiations had generally ended in bitter controversies.
Up to the last year there was no conjunction of circumstances favourable to bringing about
this union, and probably if we suffer this opportunity to be wasted we shall never see again
such another conjunction as will enable us to agree, even so far, among ourselves. By a most
fortunate concurrence of circumstances--by what I presume to call, speaking of events of this
magnitude, a providential concurrence of circumstances--the Government of Canada was so modified
last spring as to enable it to deal fearlessly with this subject, at the very moment when the
coast Colonies, despairing of a Canadian union, were arranging a conference of their own for
a union of their own. Our Government embraced among its members from the western section the
leaders of the former Ministry and former Opposition from that section. At the time it was
formed it announced to this House that it was its intention, as part of its policy, to seek
a conference with the Lower Colonies, and endeavour to bring about a general union. This House
formally gave the Government its confidence after the announcement of that policy, and although
I have no desire to strain terms, it does appear to me that this House did thereby fully commit
itself to the principle of a union of the Colonies, if practicable. Everything we did was done
in form and with propriety, and the result of our proceedings is the document that has been
submitted to the Imperial Government as well as to this House, and which we speak of here as
a treaty. And that there may be no doubt about our position in regard to that document, we
say, Question it you may, reject it you may, or accept it you may, but alter it you may not.
It is beyond your power, or our power, to alter it. There is not a sentence--not even a word--you
can alter without desiring to throw out the document. Alter it, and we know at once what you
mean--you thereby declare yourselves against the only possible union. On this point, I repeat,
after all my hon. friends who have already spoken, for one party to alter a treaty, is, of
course, to destroy it. Let us be frank with each other; you do not like our work, nor do you
like us who stand by it, clause by clause, line by line, and letter by letter. Well, we believe
we have here given to our countrymen of all the Provinces the possible best--that we have given
them an approximation to the right-- their representatives and ours have laboured at it, letter
and spirit, form and substance, until they found this basis of agreement, which we are all
confident will not now, nor for many a day to come, be easily swept away. And first, I will
make a remark to some of the French Canadian gentlemen who are said to be opposed to our project,
on French Canadian grounds only. I will remind them, I hope not improperly, that every one
of the Colonies we now propose to re-unite under one rule--in which they shall have a potential
voice--were once before united as New France. Newfoundland, the uttermost, was theirs, and
one large section of its coast is still known as the 'French shore;' Cape Breton was theirs
till the final fall of Louisburgh; Prince Edward Island was their Island of St. Jean; Charlottetown
was their Port Joli; and Frederickton, the present capital of New Brunswick, their St. Anne's;
in the heart of Nova Scotia was that fair Acadian land, where the roll of Longfellow's noble
hexameters may be heard in every wave that breaks upon the base of Cape Blomedon. In the northern
counties of New Brunswick, from the Mirimichi to the Metapediac, they had their forts and farms,
their churches and their festivals, before the English speech had ever once been heard between
those rivers. Nor is that tenacious Norman and Breton race extinct in their old haunts and
homes. I have heard one of the members for Cape Breton speak in high terms of that portion
of his constituency; and I believe I am correct in saying that Mr. Le Visconte, the late Finance
Minister of Nova Scotia, was, in the literal sense of the term, an Acadian. Mr. Cozzans, of
New York, who wrote a very readable little book the other day about Nova Scotia, describes
the French residents near the basin of Minas, and he says, especially of the women, 'they might
have stepped out of Normandy a hundred years ago!' In New Brunswick there is more than one
county, especially in the North, where business, and law, and politics, require a knowledge
of both French and English.

"I think it is to their honour, that the Highlanders in all the Lower Provinces preserve faithfully
the religion, as well as the language and traditions of their fathers. The Catholic Bishop
of Charlottetown is a McIntyre; his Right Rev. Brother of Arichat (Cape Breton) is a McKinnon;
and in the list of the clergy, I find a. constant succession of such names as McDonald, McGillis,
McGillvary, McLeod, McKenzie, and Cameron--all 'Anglo-Saxons' of course, and mixed up with
them Fourniers, Gauvreaus, Paquets, and Martells, whose origin is easy to discover. Another
of the original elements of that population remains to be noticed--the U. E. Loyalists, who
founded New Brunswick (as they founded Upper Canada), for whom New Brunswick was made a separate
Province in 1784, as Upper Canada was for their relatives in 1791. Their descendants still
flourish in the land, holding many positions of honour; and as a representative of the class,
I shall only mention Judge Wilmot, who the other day declared, in charging one of his grand
juries, that if it were necessary to carry Confederation in New Brunswick, so impressed was
he with the necessity of the measure, to the very existence of British laws and British institutions
on this continent, he was prepared to quit the Bench and return to politics. There are other
elements also not to be overlooked. The thrifty Germans of Lunenberg, whose homes are the neatest
upon the land, as their fleet is the tightest on the sea; and other small sub-divisions; but
I shall not prolong this analysis. I may observe, however, that this population is almost universally
a native population of three or four or more generations. In New Brunswick, at the most there
is about twelve per cent. of an immigrant people; in Nova Scotia, about eight; in the two Islands,
even less. In the eye of the law, we admit no disparity between natives and immigrants in this
country; but it is to be considered that where men are born in the presence of the graves of
their fathers, for even a few generations, the influence of the fact is great in enhancing
their attachment to that soil. I admit, for my part, as an immigrant, of no divided allegiance
to Canada and her interest; but it would be untrue and paltry to deny a divided affection between
the old country and the new. Kept within just bounds, such an affection is reasonable, is right
and creditable to those who cherish it. Why I refer to this broad fact, which distinguishes
the populations of all the four seaward Provinces, as much as it does Lower Canada herself,
is, to show the fixity and stability of that population; to show that they are by birth British-Americans;
that they can nearly all, of every origin, use that proud phrase when they look daily from
their doors, 'This is my own, my native land.' Let but that population and ours come together
for a generation or two--such are the elements that compose, such the conditions that surround
it--and their mutual descendants will hear with wonder, when the history of these present transactions
is written, that this plan of union could ever have been seriously opposed by statesmen in
Canada or elsewhere. I am told, however, by one or two members of this House, and by exclusive-minded
Canadians out of it, that they cannot get up any patriotic feeling about this union with New
Brunswick or Nova Scotia, and that they cannot look with any interest at those Colonies, with
which we have had hitherto so little association. 'What's Hecuba to me, or I to Hecuba!' Well,
I answer to that, Know them, and my word for it, you will like them. I have made several journeys
there, and I have seen much of the people, and the more I have seen of them, the more I respected
and esteemed them. I say, then, to these gentlemen, that if you desire any patriotism on the
subject; if you want to stir up a common sentiment of affection between these people and ourselves,
bring us all into closer relation together, and, having the elements of a vigorous nationality
within us, each will find something to like and respect in the other; mutual confidence and
respect will follow, and the feeling of being engaged in a common cause for the good of a common
nationality will grow up of itself without being forced by any man's advocacy. The thing who
shuts up his heart against his kindred, his neighbours, and his fellow-subjects, may be a very
pretty fellow at a parish vestry, but do you call such a forked- radish as that, a man? Don't
so abuse the noblest word in the language.

       *       *       *       *       *

"But there is one special source of wealth to be found in the Maritime Provinces, which was
not in any detail exhibited by my hon. friends--I allude to the important article of coal.
I think there can be no doubt that, in some parts of Canada, we are fast passing out of the
era of wood as fuel, and entering on that of coal. In my own city every year, there is great
suffering among the poor from the enormous price of fuel, and large sums are paid away by national
societies and benevolent individuals, to prevent whole families perishing for want of fuel.
I believe we must all concur with Sir William Logan, that we have no coal in Canada, and I
may venture to state, on my own authority, another fact, that we have--a five months' winter,
generally very cold.

"Sir W. E. Logan demonstrated by a laborious survey the thickness or depth of the whole group
in Northern Nova Scotia to be over 2 3/4 miles, an amount which far exceeds anything seen in
the coal formation in other parts of North America; in this group there are seventy-six coal
beds one above the other.

"These exhaustless coal fields will, under our plan--which is in fact our Reciprocity Treaty
with the Lower Provinces--become, hereafter, the great resource of our towns for fuel. I see
the cry is raised below by the anti-Unionists, that to proceed with Confederation would be
to entail the loss of the New England market for their coals. I do not quite see how they make
this out, but even an anti-Unionist might see that the population of Canada is within a fraction
of that of all New England put together, that we consume in this country as much fuel per annum
as they do in New England; and, therefore, that we offer them a market under the Union equal
to that which these theorizers want to persuade their followers they would lose. Sir, another
cry raised by the anti-Unionists below is, that they would have to fight for the defence of
Canada--a very specious argument. What, Sir, three millions and one million unite, and the
one million do the fighting for all! In proportion to their numbers no doubt these valiant
gentlemen will have to fight, if fighting is to be done, but not one man or one shilling more
than Canada, pro rata, will they have to risk or spend. On the contrary, the greater community,
if she should not happen to be first attacked, would be obliged to fight for them, and in doing
so, I do not hesitate to say, on far better authority than my own, that the man who fights
for the valley and harbour of St. John, or even for Halifax, fights for Canada. I will suppose
another not impossible case. I will suppose a hostile American army, on a fishery or any other
war, finding it easier and cheaper to seize the Lower Colonies by land than by sea, by a march
from a convenient rendezvous on Lake Champlain, through Lower Canada, into the upper part of
New Brunswick, and so downward to the sea--a march like Sherman's march from Knoxville to Savannah.
While we obstructed such a march by every means in our power, from the Richelieu to Riviere
du Loup, whose battles would we be fighting then? Why, the seaports aimed at, for our common
subjugation. But the truth is, all these selfish views and arguments are remarkably short-sighted,
unworthy of the subject, and unworthy even of those who use them. In a commercial, in a military,
in every point of view, we are all, rightly considered, dependent on each other. Newfoundland
dominates the Gulf, and none of us can afford to be separated from her. Lord Chatham said he
would as soon abandon Plymouth as Newfoundland to a foreign power, and he is thought to have
understood how to govern men. Nova Scotia and New Brunswick are Siamese twins, held together
by that ligature of land between Baie Verte and Cumberland Basin, and the fate of the one must
follow the fate of the other. Prince Edward Island is only a little bit broken off by the Northumberland
Strait from those two bigger brethren, and Upper and Lower Canada are essential to each other's
prosperity.

"If the honest and misguided would but reflect for a moment the risks they run by defeating,
or even delaying this measure, I am sure they would, even yet, retract. If we reject it now,
is there any human probability that we shall ever see again so propitious a set of circumstances
to bring about the same results? How they came about we all know. The strange and fortunate
events that have occurred in Canada; the extraordinary concessions made by the leaders of the
Governments below--Dr. Tupper, the Nova Scotian Premier, for instance, admitting to his confidence,
and bringing with him here as his co- representatives, the Hon. Messrs. Archibald and McCully,
two of his most determined political opponent--can we ever expect, if we reject this scheme,
that the same or similar things will occur again to favour it? Can we expect to see the leader
of the Upper Canadian Conservative party and the leader of the Upper Canadian Liberals sitting
side by side again, if this project fails to work out, in a spirit of mutual compromise and
concession, the problem of our constitutional difficulties? No, Sir, it is too much to expect.
Miracles would cease to be miracles if they were events of every-day occurrence; the very nature
of wonders requires that they should be rare; and this is a miraculous and wonderful circumstance,
that men at the head of the Governments in five separate Provinces, and men at the head of
the parties opposing them, all agreed at the same time to sink party differences for the good
of all, and did not shrink, at the risk of having their motives misunderstood, from associating
together for the purpose of bringing about this result. I have asked, Sir, what risks do we
run if we reject this measure? We run the risk of being swallowed up by the spirit of universal
democracy that prevails in the United States. Their usual and favourite motto is--

               "'No pent-up Utica contracts our powers,
                 But the whole boundless continent is ours.

That is the popular paraphrase of the Monroe doctrine. And the popular voice has favoured--aye,
and the greatest statesmen among them have looked upon it as inevitable--an extension of the
principles of democracy over this continent. Now, I suppose a universal democracy is no more
acceptable to us than a universal monarchy in Europe would have been to our ancestors; yet
for three centuries--from Charles V. to Napoleon--our fathers combated to the death against
the subjugation of all Europe to a single system or a single master, and heaped up a debt which
has since burdened the producing classes of the Empire with an enormous load of taxation, which,
perhaps, none other except the hardy and ever-growing industry of those little islands could
have borne up under. The idea of a universal democracy in America is no more welcome to the
minds of thoughtful men among us than was that of a universal monarchy to the minds of the
thoughtful men who followed the standard of the third William, or who afterwards, under the
great Marlborough, opposed the armies of the particular dynasty that sought to place Europe
under a single dominion.

"But if we are to have a universal democracy on this continent, the Lower Provinces--the smaller
fragments--will be 'gobbled up' first, and we will come in afterwards by way of dessert. The
proposed Confederation will enable us to bear up shoulder to shoulder; to resist the spread
of this universal democracy doctrine; it will make it more desirable to maintain on both sides
the connection that binds us to the parent State; it will raise us from the position of mere
dependent colonies to a new and more important position; it will give us a new lease of existence
under other and more favourable conditions; and resistance to this project, which is pregnant
with so many advantages to us and to our children, means simply this, ultimate union with the
United States. But these are small matters, wholly unworthy of the attention of the Smiths,
and Annands, and Palmers, who have come forward to forbid the banns of British-American Union.
Mr. Speaker, before I draw to a close the little remainder of what I have to say-- and I am
sorry to have detained the House so long--

I beg to offer a few observations apropos of my own position as an English-speaking member
for Lower Canada. I venture, in the first place, to observe that there seems to be a good deal
of exaggeration on the subject of race, occasionally introduced, both on the one side and the
other, in this section of the country. I congratulate my honorable friend, the Attorney-General
for this section, on his freedom from such prejudices in general, though I still think in matters
of patronage and the like he always looks first to his own compatriots for which neither do
I blame him. But this theory of race is sometimes carried to an anti-christian and unphilosophical
excess. Is not that the true theory of race? For my part, I am not afraid of the French Canadian
majority in the future local government doing injustice, except accidentally; not because I
am of the same religion as themselves; for origin and language are barriers stronger to divide
men in this world than is religion to unite them. Neither do I believe that my Protestant compatriots
need have any such fear. The French Canadians have never been an intolerant people; it is not
in their temper, unless they had been persecuted, perhaps, and then it might have been as it
has been with other races of all religions.

"All who have spoken on this subject have said a good deal, as was natural, of the interests
at stake in the success or failure of this plan of Confederation. I trust the House will permit
me to add a few words as to the principle of Confederation considered in itself. In the application
of this principle to former constitutions there certainly always was one fatal defect, the
weakness of the central authority. Of all the Federal constitutions I have ever heard or read
of, this was the fatal malady: they were short-lived, they died of consumption. But I am not
prepared to say that because the Tuscan League elected its chief magistrates but for two months
and lasted a century, that therefore the Federal principle failed. On the contrary, there is
something in the frequent, fond recurrence of mankind to this principle, among the freest people,
in their best times and in their worst dangers, which leads me to believe, that it has a very
deep hold in human nature itself--an excellent basis for a government to have. But, indeed,
Sir, the main question is the due distribution of powers in a Federal Union--a question I dare
not touch to-night, but which I may be prepared to say something on before the vote is taken.
The principle itself seems to me to be capable of being so adapted as to promote internal peace
and external security, and to call into action a genuine, enduring, and heroic patriotism.
It is a fruit of this principle that makes the modern Italian look back with sorrow and pride
over a dreary waste of seven centuries to the famous field of Legnano; it was this principle
kindled the beacons which yet burn on the rocks of Uri; it was this principle that broke the
dykes of Holland and overwhelmed the Spanish with the fate of the Egyptian oppressor. It is
a principle capable of inspiring a noble ambition and a most salutary emulation. You have sent
your young men to guard your frontier. You want a principle to guard your young men, and thus
truly defend your frontier. For what do good men who make the best soldiers fight? For a line
of scripture or chalk line--for a text or for a pretext? What is a better boundary between
nations than a parallel of latitude, or even a natural obstacle?--what really keeps nations
intact and apart?--a principle. When I can hear our young men say as proudly, 'our Federation,'
or 'our Country,' or 'our Kingdom,' as the young men of other countries do, speaking of their
own, then I shall have less apprehension for the result of whatever trials the future may have
in store for us. It has been said that the Federal Constitution of the United States has failed.
I, Sir, have never said it. The Attorney- General West told you the other night that he did
not consider it a failure; and I remember that in 1861, when in this House I remarked the same
thing, the only man who then applauded the statement was the Attorney-General West,--so that
it is plain he did not simply adopt the argument for use the other night when advocating a
Federal Union among ourselves. It may be a failure for us, paradoxical as this may seem, and
yet not a failure for them. They have had eighty years' use of it, and having discovered its
defects, may apply a remedy and go on with it eighty years longer. But we also were lookers
on, who saw its defects as the machine worked, and who have prepared contrivances by which
it can be improved and kept in more perfect order when applied to ourselves. And one of the
foremost statesmen in England, distinguished alike in politics and literature, has declared,
as the President of the Council informed us, that we have combined the best parts of the British
and the American systems of government; an opinion deliberately formed at a distance, without
prejudice, and expressed without interested motives of any description. We have, in relation
to the head of the Government, in relation to the judiciary, in relation to the second chamber
of the Legislature, in relation to the financial responsibility of the General Government,
and in relation to the public officials whose tenure of office is during good behaviour instead
of at the caprice of a party--in all these respects we have adopted the British system; in
other respects we have learned something from the American system, and I trust and believe
we have made a very tolerable combination of both.

"The principle of Federation is a generous principle. It is a principle that gives men local
duties to discharge, and invests them at the same time with general supervision, and excites
a healthy sense of responsibility and comprehension. It is a principle that has produced a
wise and true spirit of statesmanship in all countries in which it has ever been applied. It
is a principle eminently favourable to liberty, because local affairs are left to be dealt
with by local bodies, and cannot be interfered with by those who have no local interest in
them, while matters of a general character are left exclusively to a General Government. It
is a principle inseparable from every government that ever gave extended and important services
to a country, because all governments have been more or less confederations in their character.
Spain was a Federation, for although it had a king reigning over the whole country, it had
its local governments for the administration of local affairs. The British Isles are a quasi-Confederation,
and the old French dukedoms were confederated in the States-General. It is a principle that
runs through all the history of civilization in one form or another, and exists alike in monarchies
and democracies; and having adopted it as the principle of our future government, there were
only the details to arrange and agree upon. Those details are before you. It is not in our
power to alter any of them even if the House desires it. If the House desires, it can reject
the treaty, but we cannot, nor can the other Provinces, which took part in its negociation,
consent that it shall be altered in the slightest particular.

"Mr. Speaker, I am sorry to have detained the House so long, and was not aware till I had been
some time on my legs, that my physical strength was so inadequate to the exposition of those
few points which, not specially noticed by my predecessors in this debate, I undertook to speak
upon. We stand at present in this position: we are bound in honour, we are bound in good faith,
to four Provinces occupied by our fellow colonists, to carry out the measure of Union agreed
upon here in the last week of October. We are bound to carry it to the foot of the Throne,
and ask there from Her Majesty, according to the first resolution of the Address, that she
will be graciously pleased to direct legislation to be had on this subject. We go to the Imperial
Government, the common arbiter of us all, in our true Federal metropolis--we go there to ask
for our fundamental Charter. We hope, by having that Charter, which can only be amended by
the authority that made it, that we will lay the basis of permanency for our future government.
The two great things that all men aim at in free government, are liberty and permanency. We
have had liberty enough--too much, perhaps, in some respects--but, at all events, liberty to
our hearts' content. There is not on the face of the earth a freer people than the inhabitants
of these Colonies. But it is necessary there should be respect for the law, a high central
authority, the virtue of civil obedience, obeying the law for the law's sake; for even when
a man's private conscience may convince him sufficiently that the law in some cases may be
wrong, he is not to set up his individual will against the will of the country, expressed through
its recognized constitutional organs. We need in these Provinces, and we can bear, a large
infusion of authority. I am not at all afraid this Constitution errs on the side of too great
conservatism. If it be found too conservative now, the downward tendency in political ideas
which characterises this democratic age is a sufficient guarantee for amendment. Its conservatism
is the principle on which this instrument is strong, and worthy of the support of every colonist,
and through which it will secure the warm approbation of the Imperial authorities. We have
here no traditions and ancient venerable institutions; here, there are no aristocratic elements
hallowed by time or bright deeds; here, every man is the first settler of the land, or removed
from the first settler one or two generations at the farthest; here, we have no architectural
monuments calling up old associations; here, we have none of those old popular legends and
stories which in other countries have exercised a powerful share in the government; here, every
man is the son of his own works. We have none of those influences about us which, elsewhere,
have their effect upon government just as much as the invisible atmosphere itself tends to
influence life, and animal and vegetable existence. This is a new land--a land of young pretensions
because it is new; because classes and systems have not had that time to grow here naturally.
We have no aristocracy but of virtue and talent, which is the best aristocracy, and is the
old and true meaning of the term. There is a class of men rising in these Colonies, superior
in many respects to others with whom they might be compared. What I should like to see, is--that
fair representatives of the Canadian and Acadian aristocracy should be sent to the foot of
the Throne with that scheme, to obtain for it the royal sanction--a scheme not suggested by
others, or imposed upon us, but one the work of ourselves, the creation of our own intellect
and of our own free, unbiassed, and untrammelled will. I should like to see our best men go
there, and endeavour to have this measure carried through the Imperial Parliament--going into
Her Majesty's presence, and by their manner, if not actually by their speech, saying--'During
Your Majesty's reign we have had responsible Government conceded to us: we have administered
it for nearly a quarter of a century, during which we have under it doubled our population,
and more than quadrupled our trade. The small Colonies which your ancestors could hardly see
on the map, have grown into great communities. A great danger has arisen in our near neighbourhood.
Over our homes a cloud hangs, dark and heavy. We do not know when it may burst. With our own
strength we are not able to combat against the storm; but what we can do, we will do cheerfully
and loyally. We want time to grow; we want more people to fill our country, more industrious
families of men to develop our resources; we want to increase our prosperity; we want more
extended trade and commerce; we want more land tilled--more men established through our wastes
and wildernesses. We of the British North-American Provinces want to be joined together, that,
if danger comes, we can support each other in the day of trial. We come to Your Majesty, who
have given us liberty, to give us unity, that we may preserve and perpetuate our freedom; and
whatsoever charter, in the wisdom of Your Majesty and of Your Parliament, you give us, we shall
loyally obey and observe as long as it is the pleasure of Your Majesty and Your Successors
to maintain the connection between Great Britain and these Colonies.'"

CHAPTER XVII.

1851.--First Visit to America: a Reason for it.

My first visit to America was mainly induced by a misfortune which happened to me in the spring
of 1846. The year 1845 had been one of excitement, and my hands had been very full at that
time. I was to a great extent a water drinker. I had the habit of sticking to my work, various
and complicated as much of it was, day by day, until that day's work was done. It often happened
that I forgot to eat the modest lunch carefully put in my pocket by my wife on my leaving home,
in early morning. And often and often I did not get home till nine o'clock at night, so tired
that occasionally I fell asleep over my dinner; and my wife, seeing my condition of fatigue,
got into the habit of carving our frugal joints, a habit which has become permanent. Thus,
when I say, as a bit of pleasantry, that where the lady carves, you learn who is the master
of the house, Lady Watkin will retort by mentioning this old story of past and anxious times.

Well, the Trent Valley Railway, of which I was Secretary and Manager, was sold, at a large
profit--I think 438,000l.--to the London and Birmingham and Grand Junction Companies, then
about to amalgamate under the name of the "London and North Western." In the spring of 1846
it became necessary to close our accounts, and balance our books, with a view to give each
shareholder his share of principal and profit. It was arranged that the shareholders should
call at the office in Norfolk Street, in Manchester, for their cheques on and after a day in
April, 1846. Two days before this date, my Scotch book-keeper came to me to report that in
balancing the books he was out the small sum of 1s. 10d. (I think it was), and he proposed
to carry that to profit and loss ("Profeet and Loasse," he said). To which I, of course, replied,
"My good friend, a failure to balance of even a penny may conceal errors on the two sides of
the account by the hundred. Set all hands to work to call over every item." We set to work,
and I was up the best part of one, and the whole of another, night. I was so anxious that I
did not feel to want food; and drink I was unused to. A beefsteak and a pint of stout would
have saved me from ten years, more or less, of suffering, weakness, and all kinds of misery.
In the early morning of the day on which we were to begin paying off our shareholders, the
books balanced. We had discovered errors, both to debit and credit, probably a hundred at least
in number.

It was a clear, cold morning. I went out to a little barber's shop and got shaved. I did not
feel in want of food--and took none. At ten o'clock shareholders began to arrive: got their
cheques, and went away satisfied. One of them, who would gain about 30,000l., actually gave
me a 5l. note for the clerks, which was the only expression of gratitude of a practical character,
so far as I remember, now. About noon Mr. Henry Houldsworth, the father of the present member
for Manchester, called for his cheque; and, chatting with him at the time, as I was making
the upstroke of the letter H in "Houldsworth," I felt as if my whole body was forced up into
my head, and that was ready to burst. I raised my head, and this strange feeling went away.
I thought, how strange! I tried again, the same feeling came again and again, till, with a
face white as paper, that alarmed those about me, I fell forward on the desk. Water was given
me; but I could not swallow it. I never lost entire consciousness; but I thought I was going
to die. I never can forget all that in those moments passed through my brain. They put me into
a carriage, and took me to the consulting room, in Mosley Street, of my old friend William
Smith, the celebrated Manchester surgeon, nephew of the great Mr. Turner, the surgeon. He placed
me on a sofa, and asked me what it was,--feeling, or trying to find, my pulse the while. I
whispered, "Up all night--over-anxious--no food." He gave me brandy and soda water, and a biscuit,
and told me to lie still. I had never tasted this popular drink before. In about a quarter
of an hour I felt better, got up, and said, "Oh! I am all right now." But Mr. Smith, nevertheless,
ordered me to go home at once, go to bed, take a pill--I assume, a narcotic--which he gave
me, and not to get up till he had seen me in the morning. I insisted on calling at the office.
I felt able to go on with my work. But at the office, something in my looks induced them to
send a faithful clerk with me in the cab to our house, Woodland Cottage, Higher Broughton.
So he and I went away. I found afterwards, that some of the clerks said, "We shall never see
him again." But they did--shaky and seedy, as he was, for many a long day.

Well, just as our cab mounted the small hill on which our house stood, the faithful clerk,
with more zeal than discretion, said, "You look awful ill, sir; why your face is as white as
my shirt." I looked at his shirt, seemingly guiltless, for days past, of the washerwoman.

But I was within three minutes of home: and I was distressed at the thought of alarming my
wife, who was not in a condition to be alarmed. So, with what little strength I had left, I
rubbed my forehead, face, nose, lips, chin, with my clenched fist, to restore some slight colour.
Entering our door, I said, "I am rather worn out, and will go to bed. Up all night. Work done.
Now, please, I will go to bed."

So, after every affectionate care that a good wife could pay, I swallowed my narcotic pill--and
slept, slept, slept--till, at eight in the morning, the sun was coming in, charmingly, through
the windows. Nothing seemed to ail me. What weakness, what nonsense, said I. But I had promised
to remain in bed till Mr. Smith came. But I sent down for my clerks, and at 11 a.m. I was in
full activity, dictating to one man, listening to another, and giving orders to a third, in,
as I thought, the fullest voice--when in came Mr. Smith. He looked round in doubt, and then
went down stairs. I have only just forgiven him for that. For in a moment up came my wife.
"Edward," she said, "Mr. Smith declares that if you do not give over at once, you will have
brain fever." Oh! unwise Smith. The words were hardly out of my wife's mouth, when I felt I
could do no more. Had the world been offered to me, I could have done no more.

Alas! my nerve was gone.

At that tune I was working for a livelihood. Fortunate that it was so, otherwise a lunatic
asylum, or a permanent state of what the doctors call hypochondriasis, might have followed.

After some years of struggle with this nerve-demon, the child of overwork, I wrote, in 1850:--

"I am not fond of writing, and I know I must do it badly. Still I feel that the little narrative
I am about to put together may do some good to some few people who may be suffering. I know
that the roughest and dullest book ever written, had it contained a similar relation to this
of mine, would have brought balm to my mind and hope to my heart not many years ago. And who
knows but that other men (for the scenes of this world, and its good and evil, are very much
alike), may be suffering as I did, and may therefore be influenced by my rude scribbling, as
I might have been by some of theirs?

"There was a time, and not a very distant one either, when I was utterly ignorant of two things--first,
the existence, in my particular case, of the thing called the human stomach; and secondly,
the reality of those mysterious telegraphic wires--yclept NERVES. Often nave I sneered at 'bilious
subjects,' 'dyspepsia,' and that long string of woes which one hears of, in such luxuriance
of description, usually over breakfast, at Clifton, Tonbridge, or Harrogate. Like the old Duchess
of Marlborough, too, I used 'to thank God I was born before nerves came into fashion.'

"But 'live and learn.' I have lived; and I have learnt the utter misery which a deranged digestion
and jarring nerves, acting and reacting upon each other, can inflict upon their victims. To
be laid up in bed for a month with a violent disease is nothing. You are killed or cured; made
better, and your illness forgotten even by yourself; or quietly laid under the dust of your
mother earth, to lie there in oblivion, the busy world moving on, unheeding, over your cold
remains, till the great day of judgment. But to have, as it were, your whole 'mind, body, soul,
and strength' turned, with a resistless fascination, into the frightened study of your own
dreadful anatomy. To find your courage quail, not before real danger, but at phantoms and shadows--nay,
actually at your own horrid self--to feel every act of life and every moment of business a
task, an effort, a trial, and a pain. Sometimes to be unable to sleep for a week--sometimes
to sleep, but, at the dead of night, to wake, your bed shaking under you from the violent palpitation
of your heart, and your pillow drenched with cold sweat pouring from you in streams. But, worst
of all, if you are of a stubborn, dogged, temper, and are blessed with a strong desire to 'get
on'--to feel yourself unable to make some efforts at all, to find yourself breaking down before
all the world in others, and to learn, at last, in consequence, almost to hate the half-dead
and failing carcase tied to your still living will. This, not for months only, but for YEARS.
Years, too, in what ought to be your prime of manhood. Ah! old age and incapacity at thirty
is a bitter, bitter punishment. Better be dead than suffer it; for you must suffer it alone
and in silence--you may not hope for sympathy--you dare not desire it--you see no prospect
of relief--you wage a double warfare, with the world and with yourself. I do not, I dare not,
exaggerate. Indeed, a lady of a certain age could hardly feel more abashed at the sudden production
of her baptismal certificate than I--a man, a matter-of-fact man, a plain, hard-headed, unimaginative
man of business--do, at this confession. Suffice it to say, that in the last four years I have
lived the life of a soul in purgatory or an inhabitant of the 'Inferno,' and though I have
worked like a horse, determined, if possible, to rout out my evil genii--the wave of health
has gradually receded, till, at last, an internal voice has seemed solemnly to say, 'Thus far
shalt thou go and no farther.'

"If any one, who has not suffered similarly, has patience to read thus far (which is doubtful),
before now he has said, with Mr. Burchell in the 'Vicar of Wakefield'--'FUDGE.' No matter--I
should have so exclaimed once; and I now envy him his healthy ignorance. The history of my
derangements is told above in one word: that word is--OVERWORK.

"If any one who may not just like an actual dissection, will look at one of Quain's 'Plates
of the Bones, Muscles, and Nerves of the Human Body,' he will see that, growing as it were
out of the walls of the stomach, there are, in our wonderful human machine, great bunches of
nerves, called, by the medicals, the 'great ganglionic system,' and he will observe that these
nerves are in intimate and inseparable connection with the spinal cord, and the brain. Then,
if he recollects that a perpetual series of conversations and signals goes on by those agents
between the stomach and the brain--that, in fact, the two are talking together every moment
(without even the delay of that inappreciable interval for which the electric current lingers
on the wires in its wondrous progress of intelligence)--he will see that he cannot abuse either
great organ without a 'combination of parties' against his administration.

"My unfortunate mistake, therefore, was this: I overworked my brain. It rebelled. Stomach joined
the outbreak. Heart beat to the rescue; and all the other corporal powers sympathised in the
attempt to put me down. They would not stand ten days' work a week, and no Sunday,--relieved
though the labour might be by the amusement of speeches and leading articles.

"The first explosion of the conspiracy laid me fainting at the desk. A sort of truce followed
this. I consented for a few days to the terms of the belligerents.

I rested. But resting, I was restless. Unfit to work, I was tormented by an unnatural desire
for action. Thus I roused myself early--rode to the office (for I was too weak to walk), buried
myself amidst my letters, reports and accounts--and rushed on with the day's duties as if all
the work of the world had to be done in that one day, and that one day was the last. But an
hour or two usually settled the contest. Head swam, heart beat, fluttered, stopped, struggled,--knees
knocked together,--and out oozed that cold clammy sweat which reminds one of weakness and the
grave. So with a pale face, anxious eye, and hollow cheek, I had to quit the desk again and
ride mournfully home, the remainder of the day being consumed in a rest, which only increased
my melancholy feelings, because it made me more than ever conscious of my feebleness and excitability.

"But by great care and management of myself, by desperate strivings to get a little health,
I did improve. Two hours a day at work, two or three times a week, became two or three hours
every working day of the week. Then, as a wonderful achievement, at last I managed to endure
half a day's business at a time. And at the end of some months (one beautiful day in August,
bless the sunlight) I actually did a whole day's work! And so, at last, I got before the wind
sufficiently to engage again in the competition of business life, with some credit and success.
None of those, however, with whom I had to compete, and to whom work (as it should be to every
man in health) was easy and pleasant, knew the cost of many of my weary days and nights of
labour, or the nervous suffering and physical weakness; in spite of which I endeavoured always
to meet my compeers in the working world with pleasantry, or at least with a smile.

"I had many relapses--but I hardly ever laid up for more than an hour or two. In these cases
a loll, or rather a recumbent pant, upon the sofa, and a dose of some bitter tonic, or a strong
glass of brandy, usually brought down the palpitation, and enabled me to set to work again
as if nothing had happened. Indeed, as the eels get accustomed to skinning, so I got used to
all this; and it became at last an old habit, and bearable.

"Thus I went on from 1846 until 1850. Four years of incessant and various labour, relieved
only by the confidence and appreciation of those who directed, and the good feeling of those
who were engaged, like me, in the executive management of the great corporation with which,
during this (to me) memorable period of my life, I was connected. I need not repeat how thoroughly
I was sustained and comforted by the assiduity of one of the best of women. I tried to thank
her by making light of my many miseries.

"This sort of life was, however, too great and continued a strain for a rickety machine to
last. And at times, when I gave way to those strange thoughts about the use and end of human
existence, which crowd upon the mind in nervous disease--it seemed to me as if I could weigh
and measure the particles of vitality from my daily diminishing store-- expended in each unnatural
effort of labour--as if every stroke of my business craft represented so much of that daily
shortening distance which lay between me and the end. I felt the price I was paying for the
privilege of labour, and for its remuneration. But I thought, ever, of my wife and little babies,
and the thought roused me to a kind of desperation, and made me feel for the time as if I could
trample weakness under foot, and tear out, break in pieces, and cast away those miserable,
oversensitive organs, which chained, cramped, and hindered me. I like work, too. And I had
a sort of shame of confessing myself incapable. I morbidly derided the sympathising regret
likely to be shown by my friends, and I pictured the moribund predictions likely to follow
a temporary desertion of my post.

"But the estates of my mortal realm stepped in again.

"At the end of a time of hard, anxious, and difficult labours, I went down into the country
on business, and was seized, in the streets of a little town, with violent palpitation, and
with faintness. I had to take refuge in a shop; to resort to brandy, physic, and a doctor;
and, at the close of a day's confinement to my room, to sneak back to London, as miserable
as any poor dog, who, having run about all day with a tin kettle at his tail, is, at last,
released, to go limping and exhausted home.

"I struggled with this, too, and for some time would not 'give in.' But my face, now, would
not answer to my will. It would look pale and miserable. My friends began to commiserate me.
This was dreadful. So I at last yielded to the combined movement, of my own convictions of
necessity, the wishes of my friends, the orders of my physician, and, most effective of all,
the kind commands of one whom I deem it an honour, as it is a necessity, to obey in most things--I
went away from business. I went away without hope. I did not expect cure. I believed functional
derangement had become, at last, organic disease--and that my days were numbered. I tried the
water cure, homoeopathy, allopathy-- everything. Some day, I must recount my consultations,
on the same Sunday, with Sir James Clarke, Her Majesty's physician, and Dr. Quin, homoeopathist,
jester, and, as some said, quack."

At the end of five years of my suffering, I went to America. The trip did me good. It did not
cure me. I wrote a book--a very little one. Half-a-crown was its price. The present First Lord
of the Treasury, Mr. W. H. Smith, published it. All the edition was sold. I did not venture
another. I will quote some portions of it, as a preface to what is to follow.

When this book was just out of the press, I received the following letters from Mr. Cobden:--

                                      "DUNFORD, NEAR MIDHURST, SUSSEX,
                                      "6th January, 1852.

"MY DEAR WATKIN,

"When lately in Manchester I heard from S. P. Robinson that you had been to the United States;
that you had been much struck with what you saw there; that we were being fast distanced by
our young rival, &c. Since then I have seen an extract in a paper from a work published by
you; but being in an outlying place here, have no means of informing myself further about it.
Now, if the book be not large, and can be sent through the post, I wish you would let me have
a copy. I know how unreasonable it is to ask an author to give away his works; for, as Dr.
Johnson said to Thrale, the brewer, in vindication of his own rule never to make a present
of his writings, 'You do not give away your porter, Sir;' but I feel very anxious to know what
you think of the United States.

"I have long had my notions about what was coming from the West, and recorded my prophecy on
my return from America in 1835. People in England are determined to shut their eyes as long
as they can; but they will be startled out of their wilful blindness some day by some gigantic
facts proving the indisputable superiority of that country in all that constitutes the power,
wealth, and real greatness of a people.

"Hoping that you are quite well after your holiday, which you would not allow to be a holiday.

                                      "I remain, very truly yours,
                                        "R. COBDEN.

"EDWD. WATKIN, Esq."

In reference to a paragraph in the following, I should mention that in my letter transmitting
the book, I had written about my meetings with Kossuth, the Hungarian patriot, and had referred
to his visit to the United States.

                                      "DUNFORD, NEAR MIDHURST,
                                        "8th January, 1852.

"MY DEAR WATKIN,

"Many thanks for your kindness in sending me a copy of your work, which, so far as I have gone,
pleases me much. You could not have done a wiser and more patriotic service than to make the
people of this country better acquainted with what is going on in the United States. It is
from that quarter, and not from barbarous Russia, or fickle France, that we have to expect
a formidable rivalry--and yet that country is less studied or understood in England than is
the history of ancient Egypt or Greece. I should like to go once more to America, if only to
see Niagara again. But I am a bad sailor, and should dread the turmoil of public meetings when
I arrived there.

"My impression of Kossuth's phrenology was that there was not power or animal energy sufficient
to account for the ascendancy he acquired over a turbulent aristocracy and a rude uncivilized
democracy. The secret lies evidently in his eloquence, in which he certainly surpasses any
modern orator; and, taking all things into account, he is in that respect probably a phenomenon
without equal in past or present times. I fear when the French news reaches America, it will
damp the ardour of his friends there, and make them more than ever resolved to 'stand upon
their own ground' rather than venture into the quagmire of European politics. It has confirmed
me in my non-intervention policy. It is evident that we know nothing about the political state
of even our next neighbours, and how are we likely to be better informed about Germany or Italy?
Their ways are not our ways. Let us not attempt to judge them by our standard. Let us endeavour
to set them a good example. If 36 millions of Frenchmen, or 46 millions of Germans, submit
to a despotic Government, it is because they do not really desire anything better.

"If they wished for a different form of Government they could have it. What presumption in
us to think that our interference in the matter can be necessary!

                                      "Believe me, faithfully yours,
                                        "RICHARD COBDEN.

"EDWD. WATKIN, Esq."

I venture here a few extracts from my little book of 1851, as detailing my views, new and fresh
as they were, on American questions.

       *       *       *       *       *

"I have presumed to think that these hasty Letters, destitute as they are of all literary merit,
written during a visit to the 'New World,' may be, just now, worth presenting to 'every-day
sort of people,' like myself, who have little time to travel; and, unable to do both, would
rather watch the free growth of a new country, than observe the decadence and decrepitude of
old ones. For just now, when a large part of our labouring population is strangely awakening
to the impression, that a dollar a-day and a vote at elections in the United States are better
than eightpence a-day in Ireland; the New Home to which our fellow-countrymen are thus flocking--and
in which, somehow or other, they prosper and are independent--is especially interesting.

"Steam navigation and railways have so far reduced the difficulties and uncertainties of Western
travel, that it is now as easy and as cheap to spend one's autumn holidays, as I have done,
in a trip to America of some eleven thousand miles out-and-home, as fifteen years ago it was
to get to John o' Groats and back by land conveyance, or to go a-shooting in Sutherlandshire--which,
by-the-bye, is an out of the way and dismal sort of county even yet.

"Every one ought to know how easy it is, and how pleasant and instructive, to travel in the
States. But, though many people do know this, the plague of English travellers which annually
overspreads Europe, from July to December, and disturbs even the quiet of the Nile, has hardly
touched America. And while one cannot enter the drawing-room of any decent house without hearing
descriptions of scenery and manners in Germany, Italy, or Russia,--to have visited America
almost involves the suspicion of some commercial connection with that country. Yet no other
land in the world has so close an alliance with our own; and, while we are culpably ignorant
of almost everything but its peculiarities and its vices, no other country studies our history,
and watches our progress, with greater interest or more solicitude. Any English youngster will
tell you that Americans speak through their noses, spit, and hold slaves; but how few, even
of the most intelligent, know that better English is spoken by the mass of Americans, than
by the majority of English citizens, and that education is practically an institution of the
United States, and universal; though at home it hardly exists as a system, and can never be
extended in any truly national direction without exciting a war of parties! Be the reason what
it may, we have been in the habit of looking down on America. We shall soon perhaps have to
look up to it.

"It is but sixty-two years since the foundation of the Republic. It then consisted of thirteen
small States. It now comprises twenty-nine States; without reckoning the new dominions of Oregon,
California, New, Mexico, and Texas. Ten years ago its area was 2,000,000 square miles, or more
than 1,300,000,000 acres. That area has become, in 1850, 3,252,689 square miles, or 2,081,717,760
acres. It is thus nearly thirty times the size of Great Britain and Ireland.

"The Republic now possesses an ocean coast of 5,140 miles, viz.,--l,920 on the Atlantic, 1,620
on the Pacific, and 1,600 on the Gulf of Mexico.

"Its population in 1790 was less than 4,000,000; in 1840 it stood at 17,000,000; it is now
25,000,000. And if its vast territory, with a more productive soil, and greater resources of
all kinds, should some day become as thickly peopled as our own island, it will then contain
a population of 800,000,000 of souls speaking the English tongue. If the Federation hold together
in peace, why should this result, though distant, be doubtful? For it now comprises almost
every variety of soil, climate, vegetable productions, and mineral wealth.

Its 20,000 miles of river and lake navigation--its 10,000 miles of railway--its 4,000 miles
of canal--and its 11,000 miles of telegraphic wire--connect every part of its vast territory
together, and give to an interminable continent the compactness of a small island. The facilities
of communication, too, place at the command of the people of one part of the country the climate
of every other. When the thermometer is below zero at New York, a journey of three days will
bring the traveller to Savannah, where a genial temperature of 60 degrees, clear skies, and
verdant nature, await him. And when a scorching sun is filling New Orleans with fever, the
cool weather of the North, and upon the great lakes, is healthy and delightful. The apple bloomed
at Natchez, in 1850, as early as the 24th March; while at Montpelier, in Vermont, it bloomed
on the 10th June. The distance between the two places is but three or four days' travel.

"One can hardly name a staple article of production which some part or other of the States
will not grow--not as a mere garden curiosity, but as an article of profitable cultivation.
The champagne of Cincinnati is beginning to be noted, and tea is under experimental cultivation
in South Carolina.

"The mineral resources of the country are enormous; and their development is only limited by
the present want of capital to work them more efficiently. The coal of Pennsylvania--the iron
in various parts of the Union--the copper of Lake Superior--the lead about Galena on the Mississippi;
and lastly, the gold of California, which has already put in circulation a coinage of 15,000,000l.
sterling--all these are but the first tapping of almost boundless resources.

"In 1791, the public debt of the United States was $75,000,000. It is now, with six times the
population, only $64,000,000; and in the same period, the imports of the country have increased
from a value of $52,000,000 to $147,000,000; the exports from $19,000,000 to $145,000,000;
and the tonnage of shipping from 500,000 tons to 3,300,000 tons.

"The post-office statistics show how the transmission of intelligence has outstripped even
the march of population. In 1790, the number of post-offices in the entire States was 75; in
1850, the number was 16,789. In 1790, there were 4,875 miles of post routes; in 1850, there
were 167,703. In 1790, the whole post-office revenue was 37,905 dollars; in 1850, it was 4,905,176
dollars; which sum consisted of 4,082,762 dollars for letters, and 819,016 dollars for newspapers
and pamphlets. The mileage run in transportation of letters in 1850, was 42,544,069 miles,
at a cost, for transportation only, of a little more than twopence-halfpenny per mile. And
the total number of letters conveyed was 67,500,000; 62,000,000 of which were paid, and 5,500,000
free and franked.

"To come from letters to arms; it is a curious fact, as exhibiting the real military strength
of this great country, that the militia force of the States amounts to 1,960,265 men, or as
many as the whole population of Canada, or two-thirds of that of Scotland, who could be called
out and in the field in less than a month.

"The school funds belonging to the respective States, swelled by the constant addition of every
sixteenth section of government land sold, are very large. Those belonging to seventeen free
States amounted, in 1850, in fixed value, to 21,400,000 dollars. Popular education is the condition
on which all new States are admitted into the Union.

"There are 121 colleges in the States; with a total of 950 instructors; 50,115 alumni; 9,028
ministers; and 11,565 students; and having 769,079 volumes in their libraries.

"And without a farthing from the State, or from any source beyond the free-will offerings of
the people, to support them, there are in this country of yesterday, 30,217 churches (exclusive
of those belonging to the Wesleyans) connected with the various sects of Christians: 26,588
ministers; and 4,558,168 communicants, or 1 in 5 1/2 of the population.

"This country, then, possesses all the elements which are usually considered as contributing
to civilization and to power. It has far outstripped us in the rate of its progress; and it
becomes every day, more and more, the refuge for the industrious poverty, not only of Great
Britain, but of Europe.

"Those who wish to gaze at ruins need not go to it. Those who only yearn for the sight of crown
jewels, or ancient armour, had better stay away. But to all who would see the realm which Nature
has spread out, in her largest features, for the development of the Anglo-Saxon race, under
institutions once deemed Utopian, and even yet wondered at as experimental--to all who would
see how a people can GROW--North America is the country of irresistible attraction."

       *       *       *       *       *

As to slavery, I wrote:--

"Maryland is a slave State, and Baltimore exhibits traces of the existence of the 'Institution.'
At the railway stations--the one belonging to the line which connects Baltimore with Philadelphia,
for instance--are notices, stating 'that coloured persons desiring to go by the cars, must
be at the depot two hours before the starting of the train, to have their names registered
and their papers examined, or they will not be allowed to travel.'

"The following announcements in the 'Baltimore Clipper,' were amongst similar advertisements:--

"'SLAVES WANTED.--We are at all times purchasing Slaves, paying the highest cash prices. Persons
wishing to sell, will please call at 242, Pratt-street. (Slatter's Old Stand.) Communications
attended to.'

"'NEGROES WANTED.--I will pay the highest prices, in cash, for any number of Negroes with good
titles, slaves for life, or for a term of years, in large or small families, or single Negroes.
I will also purchase Negroes restricted to remain in the State, that sustain good characters.
Families never separated. Persons having Slaves for sale, will please call and see me, as I
am always in the market with the cash. Communications promptly attended to, and liberal commissions
paid, by John D. Denning, No. 18, South Frederick-street, between Market and Second-streets,
with trees in front of the house.'

"Maryland has 89,000 slaves, and the number is decreasing. Virginia, its neighbour State, has
448,000--the total number in the Union being 2,487,000.

"I have found throughout my tour, what all English travellers must find--that slavery is a
question which it is better not to go out of one's way to discuss. For, although I have had
many friendly conversations with its most ardent supporters and most violent opponents, I soon
discovered, on the one hand, that the question is practically compromised by the great political
parties in the Free States, from time to time, in order to conciliate Southern votes; and,
on the other, that the slave-owners consider the word 'abolition' as synonymous with confiscation
and civil war. The latter meet you at the outset of the argument by stating that their whole
property consists of land and slaves. That their lands of course derive their value from cultivation;
and that, apart from the mere question of cost, that cultivation is impossible in the hands
of the white man. They tell you, that while the negro endures the labour of the rice field
mid-leg deep in water, and with a scorching sun above his head, without danger, and can withstand
the miasma-hanging in the night air on the plantations-- the white man is attacked with hopeless
fever if he exposes himself to these influences. They declare that the unconditional abolition
of slavery, in a country abounding in unappropriated lands, where men may squat without being
disturbed, means simply the confiscation of three hundred millions sterling, the value of the
slaves, in the first place, and the abandonment and destruction of the entire planting interest,
in the second. To urge the morality of the question with these men, would be as successful
as a similar appeal to our opium traders; to the maker of fire-arms certain to burst; or, to
use an American free State illustration--to the successful manufacturer of wooden nutmegs.

"After hearing these statements, doubtless exaggerated, but which were made with earnestness,
and are at least partially true, I was not surprised to learn, that since the forcible seizure
of a slave at Boston, some months ago, by the abolitionists of that city, many of the Southern
merchants have transferred their purchases of manufactured goods to New York, to an extent
which, were it not stated on authority, would be beyond belief. Indeed I learn, that so strong
is this anti- abolition feeling, that where any option exists, the avowed abolitionists are
systematically avoided in business dealings. A first- class firm in New York, having a magnificent
shop in the Broadway, see their old Southern customers pass by to a rival establishment in
the same street, the only reason being that they are known to be earnest abolitionists, while
their rival has never publicly expressed any opinion on the question.

"This feeling, showing itself in an endless variety of shapes, is just now most-fierce, owing
to an outrage which has occurred in Pennsylvania, in which a Mr. Gorsuch has been shot down,
and his son seriously wounded, in an attempt to seize a fugitive slave (under the provisions
of the 'fugitive slave law'), which was resisted by a rising of the free black population,
and of some white abettors.

"The 'fugitive slave law' is, indeed, simply a declaratory act. For it is unfortunately the
fact, that the Southern States gave in their adhesion to the Federal Republic solely on condition
that, while the slave trade should cease, the institution of slavery should be respected, and
they should have the right to follow and seize fugitive slaves in any part of the Union. The
'fugitive slave law' was the work of the 'Union' party--a party composed of men of all shades
of opinion, who wished, by conciliation, to prevent the threatened withdrawal of South Carolina
and other slave States from the Union.

"Greatly as all just and dispassionate men must abhor slavery, every one must admit the difficulties
with which its immediate abolition is here surrounded. The negro does not possess the cordial
sympathy of the white man. For while a small, and, politically speaking, uninfluential, party
are prepared to make every sacrifice and run all risks in order to blot out slavery on the
instant, the influential and acting leaders of the majority, whatever their occasional language
of denunciation, and affectation of horror, are not disposed to brave the rebellion of the
South, and the possible disruption of the Republic, for the sake of shortening the thraldom
of the negro some fifty years. They profess to rely upon the natural progress of events, which,
by quiet change, has already banished slavery from the majority of the States originally parties
to the Union; and has, within the last few years, forbidden the future existence of slave States
north of latitude 36 degrees 3o'--for the gradual extinction of the system; and in the meantime
they are prepared to alleviate the lot of the slave; to refuse any extension of slavery; and,
as far as concession can obtain it, to narrow the area which it now occupies.

"Perhaps, should these cold political views still hold possession of the moving spirits of
the country, the next practical step in advance may be to secure to the slave a personal right
to some small portion of the day, and to the produce of his labour in that portion;--to say,
in fact, that after a stipulated number of hours' labour for his master, the remainder of his
time shall be his own. The effect of this would be to enable him legally to accumulate property.
And if, in addition, a minimum price be fixed at which his master should be bound to allow
him to redeem himself, and savings' banks were opened to receive the produce of his free earnings--some
glimmering of daylight would dawn upon his lot, and his condition, as a 'chattel' to be bought
and sold, would not be hopeless."

Referring to what I hereafter relate of the incident at Saratoga, I may, at this point, remind
the reader that, as late as 1862, President Lincoln, a sincere abolitionist, could not see
his way to declare the freedom of the slave. He told a deputation from Chicago that "a Pope
once issued a Bull against an eclipse, but the eclipse came along nevertheless." The moment
I saw black soldiers in Northern uniform, carrying Northern muskets, at the end of 1863, I
made up my mind that the North had won. In 1865 Dr. Mackay, registrar, showed me the registry
of the passage of John Brown's, corpse through New York. I quote from memory; but if I recollect
rightly, it was this:--

------------------------------------------------------------------- |    Date.         Name.
Age.  Occupation.  Cause of Death. | |    -----         -----       ----  -----------  ---------------
| | Nov., 1859.   John Brown      59     Farmer         Hanging     | |                   
| |                          Remarks.                        | |                          
| |   Tried and found guilty of treason and of inciting slaves to   | |   rebel against their
masters.                                  | -------------------------------------------------------------------

       *       *       *       *       *

"CHAMPION STEAMER, UP THE ST. LAWRENCE, "Thursday, September 4, 1851.

"Owing to the locomotive habits of the people, the hotels of America are more extensive and
more systematized than ours. One of their features is the system of charging a fixed sum per
day, which covers all the annoying extras of English hotel bills. On entering an hotel, you
write your name and address in a book, have the number of your bedroom placed opposite your
name, and receive a key, which, when you go out you leave in the office. The breakfast, lunch,
dinner, and tea, take place at stated hours, and are managed with great precision and discipline.

"At the 'United States Hotel,' Saratoga, the waiters are blacks, and are commanded by a black
maitre d'hotel. On dinner being served, the gong is sounded, and each guest takes his appointed
place. All being seated, the maitre d'hotel claps his hands, and in an instant, at one coup,
the covers are nipped away, as if with the same hand, by waiters stationed at regular distances
around the tables. Then the serious work of eating commences. If any embarrassment arises,
a clap of the hand calls attention to it, and a sign directs its immediate remedy. Then, as
each course is finished, another clap stations the waiters again at their old places, and at
a wave of the hand all the dishes skip off the table. Then, the table being cleared of dinner
dishes, the whole posse of waiters march two and two round the tables, and leave the room by
a side door. In a few seconds they return again in the same order, each man bearing three dishes,
and fall again into their places. Then, all eyes being fixed upon the maitre d'hotel, clap
one, and down goes one dish from the hands of each waiter all along the tables. Clap two brings
down dish the second; and clap three drops the third. And at a table of nearly 400 persons
all are thus served with dessert, as before they had been with each course, in about half a
moment, and each at the same time. Even in changing knives, forks, and plates, a system is
adopted. A portion of the waiters, obeying a sign, fall out of line, and divide into threes;
one of each three bears the plates, one the knives, and one the forks; and each party goes
round its allotted length of table. Black No. 1 dots down a plate opposite each person; No.
2 plants a knife on one side of it; No. 3 puts down a fork on the other side. The men do this
with an even regularity of movement, and a gravity which is quite amusing. All this rapid and
regular action drives dinner on amazingly; indeed, it almost hurries you. In fifty minutes
all is over, and the table cleared. The Americans, who seem to know the value of time, generally
get up and decamp immediately after the last mouthful, which is perhaps a sensible plan.

"At Saratoga we found a party of Indians. Eighteen of these children of the forest, who had
been down to New York to sell toys and ornaments, which they manufacture in the winter, were
on their return home, and were encamped outside the village during Sunday. They showed little
of the costume of their tribe, or rather, I suppose I should say, want of costume; one man
wearing a pair of red plush breeches, and some of the women having bonnets. Still there were
the features, the attitudes, and the language of the aborigines. We visited their camp at night,
a collection of gipsy-like tents, and conversed with one or two of them, which led others to
steal out and listen. I say steal out, for it was only upon turning round, that I became aware
that we were suddenly almost surrounded. One man spoke very good English. He said they were
Oneidas, or as he pronounced it 'Onidehs,' and were going back to their country, where they
would remain with their tribe, about two hundred and eighty of whom were left, till next year,
and then come down again.

"On Sunday evening I witnessed another and a very different spectacle. A Methodist preacher
came into the village in a little four-wheeled car, with a square black hood over it, and preached
from his car, on what is termed by the common voice 'Nigger abolition.' He was accompanied
by a young woman and a very pretty little child, who both sat behind him. He soon got an audience,
amongst whom were several men from the Southern States. He denounced slavery in no very measured
terms, and soon provoked the Southern men to interject--'Why don't you go into the South?'
'Why, Sir,' was the reply, 'you know, it would be as much as my life is worth.' 'Nonsense!
we will give you five hundred dollars to go, and you shall be safe.' 'To what State, Sir?'
'Georgia,' replied one voice; 'Alabama,' another; 'North Carolina,' another. 'Why,' was the
rejoinder, 'three of our preachers were expelled from those very States not a month ago.' 'Your
niggers here are free, and they are worse off than ours; why don't you mend their condition
first?' And so the attack and reply went on (this was Sunday evening) for half an hour, amidst
laughter, jeers, and the occasional propulsion, by fellows behind, of some unlucky lad or other
against the poor preacher's horse; a movement which endangered the woman and child especially,
but which appeared to give great satisfaction to many, and which no one interfered in any manner
to prevent. I left the spot in disgust. I have seen, however, as much petty intolerance at
home. I returned from my walk in time to hear the preacher pronounce his benediction, in the
midst of which there arose a hideous yell: three or four boys were shot against the horse,
and the car was nearly overthrown; after which a shouting multitude followed the retreating
abolitionist for some distance, to harass and annoy him, as he drove with difficulty away.

"On Monday morning, recruited by the previous day's rest, I left Saratoga, and travelled forty-one
miles by railway through a partially cleared, and, in many parts, very beautiful country, to
Whitehall, which is at the southern end of Lake Champlain, where we took a steamer, a nice,
orderly, and comfortable boat, and steamed to Rouse's Point, 132 miles further. The scenery
of the lake is very beautiful. The ruins of the old fortress of Ticonderoga rise upon it, standing
upon a steep rocky headland, and commanding the lake, which narrows at this point; a wide expanse
of water swelling out both above and below. Ticonderoga was taken from the French by the English,
by the use of artillery fired down from the mountain above it. In the American war of independence
it was taken from us by surprise by one Colonel Ethen Allen. It is reported that Allen awakened
the commandant, who was in bed, and told him to surrender. 'By what authority?' said the half-
awakened officer. 'By the authority of the Lord Jehovah and the Continental Congress,' replied
Allen.

"About the middle of the lake is the thriving town of Burlington, the chief town of Vermont.
Here we stopped to take in passengers, and were pleased with the bustle and activity of the
place. The wharf was crowded; and, as the day was hot, straw hats and shirt-sleeves, also the
mitigated form of comfort--viz., coat and trousers without waistcoat--were abundant.

"It was dusk when we arrived at Rouse's Point, and we had not so good a view as I could have
wished of the extensive wharves and landings; the boat, 300 feet long, built to carry over
whole trains; and the extensive station works of the Northern or Ogdensburgh Railroad, which
is just opened. 'I had been introduced, at Saratoga, to the superintendent of this line, Colonel
Schlatter, by Mr. Van Ransellaer, of the Saratoga and Washington line. Both these gentlemen
were very polite, and gave me orders to pass over their railways when I pleased. The Ogdensburgh
line extends from Rouse's Point to Ogdensburgh, near the head of Lake Ontario. It forms, with
other lines, a complete system from Boston and New York to Lake Ontario, and has many difficult
and extensive works in its course.

"From Rouse's Point we took the Champlain and St. Lawrence line, opened two days ago, and at
Isle aux Noix passed into British-American territory, and heard the old French patois of the
'habitans' of that locality, from the mouths of a crowd of curious people awaiting the arrival
of the train. At La Prairie we joined the ferry boat, an immense vessel as usual, and dropped
down the St. Lawrence for nine miles, to Montreal, where I got to bed at Donnegana's hotel,
at one o'clock on Tuesday morning, desperately tired.

"Montreal is a flourishing town of 50,000 inhabitants. It is built upon an island formed by
the confluence of the St. Lawrence and the Ottawa. The 'island' belonged to the Catholic priesthood
of the place, who still exercise rights over it similar to those of the 'lords' in cases of
English copyholds, and who obtain an annual revenue of some 30,000l. or 40,000l. from it. The
city was founded about 250 years ago, and has still many of the features of a French town,
though the improvements of the last twenty years, by obliterating single story and wooden houses
from the best quarters, have altered its character. In old times it was the depot for the great
fur trades. Now, however, it receives its furs almost entirely back from England, to which
country the Hudson's Bay Company send their whole supply, to be dressed and prepared for re-exportation.
It is the commercial emporium of this district; and, though it has suffered from the equalization
of duties, it is now recovering. The facilities for communication with the United States, by
the systems of railroad made and making, which may bring it within twelve hours of Boston and
New York, will doubtless urge forward its prosperity.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Montreal has considerable general commerce, commanding, as it does, the St. Lawrence, now
connected by railway directly with the United States, and being at the outlet of the Ottawa
river district. The island upon which it stands is some thirty miles long, and contains much
fine and valuable land, mostly under cultivation, and abounding in good farms and gardens,
and fine orchards. From the 'Mountain' above Montreal, a splendid view is obtained of the St.
Lawrence and its wooded shores; the dark forests of the Ottawa valley; the fine bright lands
of the islands; the city, and its villaed suburbs. In the distances, north and south, the 'green
mountains' of Vermont, and the distant summits which separate the cultivated parts of Lower
Canada from those far-off and savage regions, in which the trappers of the Hudson's Bay Company
and some scattered Indians are the sole monarchs of the woods--are visible. There can be no
view more beautiful, few more extensive. It gives all the peculiarities of this North American
scenery in its largest and finest features. And seen again from the high towers of the Catholic
Cathedral (the cathedral will hold several thousand people, and is the largest church in Canada),
to which I mounted, up 268 steps, it again delights the eye with its extent and beauty. From
this latter point, too, the St. Lawrence is seen just below, and you may watch the rushing
of the nearest rapids, and the struggles and windings of the boats and steamers, in passing
on their upward voyages.

"Montreal and Quebec (more especially) have the distinctive features of French towns with many
of the peculiarities of English ones. Here is the well-known countenance of the northern parts
of France. Carts such as might have been seen, no doubt, hundreds of years ago in France. The
Norman breed of horses: small, round, strong, and enduring. Every other signboard presents
a French name; the blacksmith styling himself 'forgeron;' the baker, 'boulanger;' the ladies'
attendant, 'sage- femme;'--and so on. The professional man generally has two plates upon his
door:--one telling you that he is 'M. Charles Robert,' 'avocat;' and the other, that he is
'Mr. C. Robert,' 'attorney at law.' In the 'Cote des Neiges,' behind the mountain, at Montreal,
and in the suburb or quarter 'St. Henry,' this French appearance is universal. 'Notre Dame
des Neiges,' in the former, with its gaudily painted inside and unpretending outside, its wooden
roof and tin-covered steeple, would recall to you the wooded districts of France; and the houses
in both quarters, the people with their 'bonnets rouges' (as distinguished from the 'bonnets
bleus' and 'bonnets gris' of the Quebec district), and innocence of English and English ways
of living, working, farming, and thinking, are even more French than the French themselves.
Indeed, so little have they changed since the settlement of the country two hundred years ago,
that they speak the French of that time without the alloy since introduced into the language.
Their old modes of farming are still in vogue; and they despise all change, satisfied to live
in quiet and simple comfort, without the worry of improvements. In the Quebec district the
farmers singe their pigs when they have killed them, and despise the use of hot water. Just
as farmers do in Normandy, and in some parts of the south of England. This pig-singeing is
a great event; and on one occasion during the Rebellion, the singeing of two or three pigs
on a hill-side at night, caused the Quebec garrison and the country volunteers to turn out,
under the belief that the light seen was that of a beacon fire, and that the enemy were at hand.

"Montreal, and Quebec also, abound in fine Catholic churches, and the streets swarm with comfortable-looking
priests, dressed in black cassocks and bands, and wearing big-buckled shoes and broad-brimmed hats.

"The difference in language, customs, and religion, divides the population into two distinct
sections, and is a bar to united effort and to the improvement of the country; which nevertheless
does improve in spite of this difficulty, though not as rapidly as it might and ought. I did
not fully appreciate this until I visited the Superior Law Court, then sitting in Montreal.
This court is held, during the erection of the new court-house, in the old, low-walled, high-roofed,
building in which the French Government conducted their public affairs a hundred and fifty
years ago. In this building, in 1839, the Privy Council decided to place the country under
martial law, and the proclamation was issued from it.

"The judges sitting when I visited the court were Smith, Van Feloon, and Mondelet, the latter
a French Canadian. The first case argued was a long-pending one between Sir John Stewart and
an architect, who had superintended the erection of some buildings on one of Sir John's farms.
The counsel were not over clever, but sufficiently verbose, and full enough of 'instances,'
both ancient and modern. The counsel for Sir John laid great stress upon the erroneous manner
in which the action had been laid, and contended that as the English form of' assumpsit' had
been taken, in order to get both debt and damages, instead of a single action of damages being
brought, all the consequences of the form adopted must be taken by the plaintiff, who, not
having proved damages, or even stated them, must be held by the court to have made out no case,
and be cast accordingly. The counsel quoted the old French law, and a French law-writer of
1700, Chardon, and also English and Canadian authorities. The French Canadian judge having,
during the oration, thrown in an observation or two in English, which he did not speak over
fluently, at length uttered in French a long comment upon the fallacy of the argument--which
sounded strangely. The counsel for the architect went at the argument of his opponent with
great vigour, stimulated by the expressed opinion of Judge Mondelet, and went back to the days
of ancient Rome to show that forms of action had been difficult even in those days, having
once caused a revolt. He declared that even in England they were as unsettled as ever; and
wound up by propounding as a dogma, that the Canadian law was neither English, French, Roman,
nor of any other precedent, but was founded upon common sense, which was the only guide and
authority in the administration of it. In corroboration of this, the little black eye of Judge
Mondelet brightly twinkled, and he nodded his head in dignified approbation. Judge Van Feloon,
who seemed more phlegmatic, quietly settled the matter by saying, that he supposed if a man
did work for another, and the other had agreed to pay him, he was entitled to the money, and
that therefore the court would have to see that a bargain had been made, and the work duly
performed, and then decide. The next case argued arose out of a fraudulent assignment; and
in this, too, French authorities, in the old language of a hundred and fifty years since, were
often appealed to--Chardon being apparently the standard book of reference. The mixture of
custom evidently caused embarrassment, and it was clear that no fixed decisions could regulate
disputes concerning property, while the precedents relied upon were based upon the differing
laws of two separate countries--laws, perhaps, not now operating in those very countries themselves.

"The tenure of property in Lower Canada is still in part based upon the old French feudal system.
There are still 'seigneurs' who hold lands, and have 'censitaires' or tenants, paying fee-rent
in produce, services, and money. It is true that a law has been passed enabling a fixed commutation,
in money, of these seigneurial rights; but I am told that the parties adhere in most cases
to the old usage, and despise innovation.

"A singular custom, too, prevails. Parents, when old and tired of labour, assign their property
to their children, or to one of them, in consideration of a string of conditions for their
own maintenance and comfort, each one of which is recited in the deed with minute exactness.
They stipulate usually for a house, so much meat, bread, sugar, tea, &c.; a caleche and horse
to take them to church on Sundays and holidays; so much tobacco or snuff; so many gowns and
bonnets, or suits of clothes and hats; and so on. These gifts lead to frequent law- suits;
and one can quite understand how, in a country with large tracts of its land held upon tenures
of the most complex character, under a system which has passed away even in the country from
whence it came, and where to this mass of difficulty is added the cause of dispute just alluded
to, the legal profession should flourish,--which I understand it does.

"Many of the public buildings of Montreal are excellent. The Bon Secours Market is a very fine
building, and puts many of ours at home to shame. The Jesuits' College is large and sombre;
and some of the convents and institutions are well worth a visit, both as buildings and as
institutions of the place.

"In the country little progress appears; but you see no misery, and much comfort and joyfulness.
Indeed, these French settlers seem happy upon their small properties, surrounded by their old
customs, and in the enjoyment of the fetes and holidays which their religion allows. They look
upon the rush of improvement with calmness, though often with a sort of incredulity as to the
agency by which it is brought about, and the righteousness of its existence. 'Mais, croyez-vous
que le bon Dieu permettra tout cela?' said one of them on seeing a train move along, dragged
by no visible horseflesh, and propelled without birds' wings. They are quite a contrast to
their American neighbours, who have often suggested that Lower Canada might go ahead if the
French population were 'improved off the face of the earth.'

"The priests set a good example of taking matters enjoyably and peacefully: their country farm
outside Montreal, at the foot of the mountain, for example. The house is situated so as to
command a beautiful view of the basin of the St. Lawrence, which, on a fine day, shows its
river gliding on with broad tranquil surface, peacefully towards the sea, and exhibits the
gardens, woods, and orchards, which cover the country with a fertile and smiling landscape.
The grounds are large and well planted; and the rude gaze of the multitude is shut out by a
high wall, which extends half round the farm itself. Here the good fathers come for a few days
at a time, and in turns, to recruit exhausted nature, and spend their hours in exercise and
reading. Fine old fellows! we need not envy them; but rather hope that all men may some day
have as many of the means of quiet and simple happiness to resort to.

"The short summer of Lower Canada causes great activity in business during the 'seasons.' The
summer and autumn are therefore the times of business; the short interval between them the
time for visits to the seaside, or to Saratoga, or the Caledonia Springs; while the winter,
with its snow and ice and long endurance, brings round a continuous carnival of pleasant racket,
and is really the season of society amongst all ranks of the people. I heard magnificent accounts
of the balls, parties, sleighings, and country frolics, which take place; also of the walking
expeditions far out into the wilds, with snow shoes, tents to sleep in, and Indian attendants;
and of the wild sport in hunting the moose-deer, and other tenants of the wood--during this
winter season. Some of the English agents spend five business months in Canada, and all the
rest of the year in England, going home in November and returning in April.

"The residences in the suburbs of Montreal are usually well built, large, and beautifully situated.
We drove through the suburbs to Monklands, which is on the western side of the mountain, and
commands a fine view of the country. This house, which is capacious and handsome, is now used
as an hotel. It was the seat of the Governor-General, Lord Elgin; and the landlord showed us
a point at the end of the now dilapidated, but some time beautiful, garden, from whence, he
said, his lordship viewed afar off the burning of the Parliament Houses at Montreal a year
or two back. Lord Elgin shut himself up in Monklands for about three months after this outrage,
and the Parliament and court were removed to Toronto, which, until the turn comes round to
some other place, has the exclusive honour of hearing the rather strong oratory of the Upper
Province. The country about Monklands is very beautiful, and there are still abundant openings
on the mountain sides for villas, similar to the very handsome and tasteful erections with
which they are at present pretty thickly studded.

"Leaving Montreal one evening by steamer, I dropped down to Quebec. The St. Lawrence below
Montreal is broad, deep, and, in some places, winding. The principal population of Lower Canada
is on its immediate shores; and the numerous cottages and houses, with cultivated fields around
them, would lead to a belief that the whole population of the country, so thickly appearing
on the margin of the river, was greater than it is. The sail by daylight must be beautiful,
and as the hours of day, which going and returning allowed, enabled me to see a great part
of the distance, I only regretted that I could not see more of so noble a river, and of the
industry and the people settled on its banks.

"When within five miles of Quebec, coming down the river, there commences a succession of wharfs,
to which the timber, which forms so great a trade here, is floated down stream, and from which
it is loaded into vessels for Europe and other parts of the world. The stock of timber balks
floating in the basins about these wharfs and landings is now so great, that for three miles
the margin of the river looks like one great raft. We passed two immense rafts of timber, floating
down the stream, to be stowed here, one of which was some 400 yards long, had eighteen sails
set, and four wooden houses complete, erected upon it.

"Quebec is admirably placed as a fortified city, and also as a point for commerce. It stands
on a high point of land opposite the Isle of Orleans, which here divides the St. Lawrence into
two large streams. The citadel overlooks the Bay of Quebec, the Isle of Orleans, and the high
banks of the St. Lawrence. The view from it is most extensive, in whichever direction the eye
wanders. Forty miles of the St. Lawrence are seen from it. The white wooden houses on the hill-sides,
and the broad fields of yellow grain, set off the dark wood; and the river--its bay, fronting
the point of land on which the city is placed, covered with sails and glistening in the sun--mellows
the landscape most exquisitely. Quebec, as seen from the river, too, has a fine commanding
aspect. The Citadel crowning the height does not give so great an appearance of extent or strength
as it possesses. In reality, Gibraltar preeminent over all, it is one of the most impregnable
strongholds in the world; and its underground works, I am told, are so extensive that 5,000
men may be garrisoned and hidden within the bowels of the earth beneath it. Visitors are not
allowed to walk on the west ramparts; and on complaining of this to a distinguished military
officer, I was assured that the workmen, who are still employed in the excavations below, are
taken in blindfold--that the engineer officer alone knows the form and shape of the works in
progress, and that the plan of the remainder is kept sealed up in the hands of the commandant,
to be opened only in case of actual need. This is mystery with a vengeance, and but for the
authority from whence I received the statement, I should doubt the fact--most decidedly.

"The lower town of Quebec stands upon the river bank, beneath the almost perpendicular face
of rock, surmounted by the Citadel. It is old, and the houses are principally of wood, and
ultra-French in appearance. The streets are narrow and not over clean. To reach the upper town
you drive up a very precipitous road, or walk up a long flight of timber steps, which shorten
the steepest portion of the way. The upper town is built on the acclivity and on the slopes
of the hill- side, which slide down to the river St. Charles, to the north. The fire of 1845
improved the town, by clearing out miserable old wooden dwellings; and the buildings erected
on the site are of good brick or stone. Since these fires, too, it has been forbidden to build
houses of wood, within the walls; and the use of shingles for roofing has been prohibited.
The roofs are mostly covered with tin, which shines and glares in the sun at mid-day, but reflects
the morning light very pleasantly.

"The Protestant and Catholic Cathedrals are fine buildings, as are the new Catholic church
outside the suburbs, the Catholic seminary, and many other edifices. But the narrow streets,
steep ascents, and ancient buildings, take away all beauty from the town itself, delightful
as is its situation, and beautiful as are the vistas and views from various parts of it.

"A pilgrimage to the Plains of Abraham, about a mile from the Citadel, which consist of the
high tableland between the St. Lawrence and the St. Foix road and St. Charles river, was to
me a traveller's duty.

"It was on the night of the 12th of September, 1759, that Wolfe, checked by the French, at
Montmorenci, two months before, dropped down the St. Lawrence with his army in boats, and succeeded
in landing at a little bend of the river, still half hidden by trees, where the high and precipitous
shores are most accessible, though yet most difficult of ascent. The troops scaled the heights,
meeting little opposition, formed into line across the plains, and waited the attack of the
French, who had marched that morning from Beauport, near to which the battle of Montmorenci
had been fought. The French came on gallantly, and the English stood their fire until they
approached within forty yards, and then delivered theirs. The French wavered, and Wolfe charged
at the head of his men, Montcalm heading his. A desperate fight took place, and Wolfe fell,
struck by the third ball, just as the French line broke in confusion, and the English cheer
of victory burst from his conquering army. Montcalm was mortally wounded immediately afterwards.

"On the spot where Wolfe fell, on the extreme right of his line, a plain unpretending pillar
is placed, bearing the simple inscription,--

"'HERE DIED WOLFE, VICTORIOUS, SEPT. 13, 1759.'

Near the Citadel, and in the town, another monument has been erected, which bears the name
of Wolfe on one side and that of Montcalm on the other.

"To see the country, I had a drive of twenty-five miles along the St. Charles river, through
the Indian village of Lorette, and back through the fine open district to the westward of the
town. Our road was good for a few miles, but then became such a collection of deep pits and
heaps of mud, that, but for a rude fence and wheel-marks, it would hardly have been distinguished
from the fields. The course of the St. Charles, however, at this point, is between precipitous
and sometimes rocky banks, covered with trees and jungle: and in enjoyment of the scenery,
the fresh pure air, cooled by the previous night's rain, and the sweet scents thrown out by
the trees and wild-flowers, the slow progress of the vehicle and the bumping of one's sides,
were forgotten.

"Lorette was originally a colony of Christianized Huron Indians, to whom lands were granted
by the French. The village is now principally inhabited by whites and half-breeds, though there
are some of the pure race left--the men wearing European dresses, the women adhering to the
ancient costume. Their cottages are generally neat and clean. Andre Romain, the chief, resides
in the centre of the village, a high pole denoting his residence and rank. I found him bending
over his simple dinner of milk and coarse bread. He was dressed in old, and somewhat ragged,
garments. He seemed so extremely old, that I did not trouble him with more than a very short
conversation, in French. He showed me a portrait of George IV., given to him, he said, from
the hands of that monarch, and a coloured engraving of the installation of one of the royal
princes as chief of the Hurons. The poor old man, broken down with extreme age, had still the
remains of a commanding presence, which even his miserable dress, unshaven beard, and bleared
and misty eye, could not altogether extinguish.

"This village gives an example of the fate of all the Indian tribes. Here, once brought together
to live after the manner of the whites, this tribe has been reduced in number, and finally
all but absorbed; and in a few years not one of the unmixed race will remain, and the language
of the tribe will be obliterated.

"At Lorette are the falls of the St. Charles, which are very interesting. After seeing them,
I had some milk at the 'Billy Button,' a public-house kept by a Yankee, who deals in the Indian
ornaments made in the village, and shows the falls, and then drove round to Quebec, through
a fine and richly-tilled district; and, in passing, saw a hotly-contested heat run upon the
course on the plains of Abraham--for it was Quebec races."

       *       *       *       *       *

"TORONTO, "Saturday, September 6th, 1851.

"Returning to Montreal, I spent Thursday in visiting various institutions of that city, and
drove out with Mr.---- to see the country residence of a friend of his, which is hidden in
a sweet little glen, from whence, however, glimpses of the St. Lawrence river are obtained.
This gentleman lives here in summer, and employs his leisure in the cultivation of the fruits
and flowers, which a fine soil and a forcing climate produce in perfection. He complains of
the destruction of the large trees in his vicinage, regretting that those who own the neighbouring
woods should be impelled to bring down, first, the oldest and finest timber, and should be
unable to preserve even so much of it as might illustrate hereafter the magnificent proportions
of the native forest wood. This is truly one of the sad features of advancing civilization.
The fine old forests, like the native Indians, lose their noblest chieftains, and, degenerating
to a few dwarfed and scattered specimens, at last disappear and are forgotten.

"Mr.---- told us much of the happy and comfortable lives of the farmers and settlers hereabouts.
All have land; food in abundance, including sugar from their own maple-bush; cattle; horses;
light spring waggons, which serve as family coaches when not required for the week-day's work;
good homely furniture and clothing: in short, an abundance of all the essentials of existence,
and even wealth--but they possess little money. In many cases, and now that agricultural improvement
has become a necessity, this want of money is found to be a great evil. The ordinary sized
farms, of 100 acres of good land, all in cultivation, are worth from 500l., to 1,000l.; and
very often an expenditure of 200l. or 300l. in improvements would double their value. The legal
rate of interest here is 6 per cent.; and as high a rate as 7 or 8 per cent could be got for
small loans on mortgages for these purposes were the money to be had. The banks, however, do
not, as a rule, lend money on mortgage, and the monied men of the country have usually lands
of their own requiring the same sort of development. Foreign capital is therefore looked to;
and doubtless it will ultimately be procured in abundance, the security being undeniable, and
the rate of interest so high.

"Mr.---- does not consider the long winter any impediment to farming, but rather the contrary,
as the sudden burst of spring, and the rapid growths of summer, make up for it; while in a
country like this, where roads are so scanty, many of the farmers' operations are performed
more easily during the snow and hard frosts which prevail.

"Leaving Montreal, by a short railroad of nine miles in length, constructed to avoid the rapids
of a bend of the St. Lawrence, I came to Lachine. Here are the head-quarters of the Hudson's
Bay Company, and the house of Sir George Simpson, the Governor; and hence, annually, towards
the end of April, proceed the 'maitre-canots,' or large canoes, of the company, manned by its
officers and hardy 'voyageurs,' up the waters of the Ottawa to Lake Nipissing, and down the
Riviere des Francais into Lake Huron.

"At Lachine I took the 'Champion,' a fine new steamer, built and equipped at Montreal, and
worked up the St. Lawrence, along Lake Ontario, to Toronto, a journey of 450 miles, and occupying
about forty hours in the performance.

"The navigation of the St. Lawrence is impeded by several large 'rapids,' formed by the action
of the suddenly descending current upon sunken rocks deep below the surface of the water. On
the upward voyage these are impassable for merchandize vessels; and, though the large steamers
struggle through many of them, there are others which no force can cope with. To remedy these
impediments, several fine canals, equal to any similar works in the world, have been constructed.
The first of these, the Beauharnois Canal, connects, by a cut eleven miles long, the broad
embayment called 'Lake St. Louis,' above Montreal, with the similar reach called 'Lake St.
Francis;' and in the narrow passage between these unruffled waters are the principal rapids--the
'Coteau du Lac,' the 'Cedars,' and the 'Cascades.' The passage through this 'sixteen miles'
declivity of boiling waters' is exciting. The large steamers rush down with the rapidity of
the wind, through waves lashed into foam--sweeping close past the rocks and islets in the stream,
and only kept in safety in their course by the united exertions of six or seven 'voyageurs,'
and a pilot, at the wheel.

"The upper shores of the St. Lawrence are populous and well cultivated. In stopping to take
in our supply of wood, which we had to do several times during the day and night, usually at
quiet secluded nooks along shore, or on some little island, I had many opportunities of seeing
the comfort of the people, and the progress of the country. The houses, usually of wood, painted
white, or of some showy colour, and having verandas covered with climbers, looked both commodious
and gay. It might be mistake, but I fancied that improvement was more perceptible when, passing
the point where line 45 degrees 'strikes' the river, we came into the American territory. I
was particularly struck with one farm near Warrington, over which I had half-an-hour's walk,
upon the best fields of which were still protruding the heavy stumps of the forest trees, cut
down ten or twenty years ago. The owner told us he had 160 acres, which he bought, partly cleared,
seventeen years ago, for ten dollars an acre. He had, a year ago, refused twenty dollars an
acre for it, intending to make it worth fifty; and during his occupation he had brought up
a large family in comfort and independence upon it, and saved money. The crop of oats he was
now clearing was a poor one, he said,--only forty-five bushels per acre.

"Arrived at Ogdensburgh, on the American side of the river, I spent some time, while waiting
the arrival of the train bearing Boston and other eastern passengers, in going through the
extensive and commodious depot of the Northern Railway. The works are not quite completed.
They will cover an area of some forty acres, and comprise warehouses for the stowage of corn
and other produce, a fine passenger shed, and large engine-houses and sheds for cars. The quantity
of corn and flour stored here in the fall is very large. Last year it was 80,000 barrels. Unfortunately,
however, for the railways, the rate for conveyance of these staples is brought down by the
competition of the steamers to a very low point; the charge from Toronto to Montreal being
but one shilling per barrel of 218 lbs., or a farthing per ton per mile.

"Opposite Ogdensburgh is the village of Prescott, remarkable as the scene of a deadly conflict
during the rebellion, the traces of which it still exhibits, in dismantled houses, and a windmill
in ruins.

"On the evening of this day we entered a part of the river, called, from the unceasing abundance
of islets which gem its surface, the 'Lake of the Thousand Isles.' These islets, above fifteen
hundred in number, vary in size from tiny things, little bigger than an upturned boat, to areas
of many hundred acres. They are a succession of rocky excrescences, mostly covered with wood,
which grows, or overhangs, down to the water's edge. Some of them are cultivated, but the mass
are just as nature left them, when--their broken and jutting strata having settled into bearings
far down below the stream, on the morrow of some vast convulsion and upheaving of nature--the
forest era was at last established. How long a time elapsed before the action of the weather
had produced, from the hard face of the stone itself, soil enough for the lichen and the moss,
or for these, in their turns, to become the receptacle of the seeds of forest trees, blown
from some distant region--is a problem. In threading these islands, sometimes our vessel passed
through tortuous passages apparently blocked up at the end, and within a few yards of land,
but by a sudden turn emerged into fine large basins, and so wound and twined its way along.
As the sun declined, every island made a full, clear reflection in the glassy surface of the
water; and the boughs and branches, the flowers by the water's edge, the very marks upon the
rocks, were repeated upside down, as if in a perfect mirror. The whole scene bore an air of
such complete seclusion, that our noisy passage through it appeared like a rude intrusion into
some fairy realm, before time uninvaded by mortal visits. The birds were disturbed from amongst
the trees, and the wild ducks and other water-fowl skimmed away, scared at the splashing of
our paddles and the panting of our engine.

"At sunset we stopped to take in wood at Gannanoque, a village sweetly placed on a swelling
hillock above the river. Here I entered some of the houses, and found considerable comfort,
plenty of dirt, and a good many pigs, who seemed on the best possible terms with the children.
An Irishwoman, standing at her door, her eldest son in her arms, a fine bright-eyed urchin,
told me, in return for my compliments on the healthy appearance of the child, that she 'had
been afther bathing him; for sure he had made himself dirty with playing with the pig.'

"The full moon had risen high when we left the last of the isles behind us; and late at night
we emerged from the St. Lawrence, and arrived at Kingston, the tin roofs of which shone brightly
in the moonlight.

"Kingston is an important town, and is the port of the Rideau Canal, which connects Bytown
and the Ottawa with Lake Ontario. A walk through the streets by moonlight enabled us to see
the market-house, a stone building, considered to be the finest in Upper Canada.

"Keeping along the north shore of Lake Ontario, we stopped at several thriving little ports,
and arrived in Toronto early on the afternoon of Saturday.

"Toronto is the chief city of Upper Canada, and is evidently a highly prosperous place. It
has a thoroughly Anglo-Saxon cast about it, and looks new and bright. The streets are long
and wide, the houses generally of brick, high and regular; and everywhere is the appearance
of vigorous trade and rapid extension. The houses of the richer classes are fully equal to
those in the suburbs of Montreal; while no old dilapidated dwellings, like those which appear
in that city, are here visible. There are many fine public buildings--St. Lawrence Hall, the
Banks, the Parliament House, and many others. The grounds of King's College are well worth
a visit. Toronto is at present the seat of Government, and the Governor-General resides here.

"This city, and its people, present many points of favourable contrast with the older cities
and population of Lower Canada. The soil and climate may perhaps be more favourable, and the
vicinity of American energy may have some effect; but the secret of the greater growth of this
province may be traced to its settlement by American Loyalists in 1783. These men, driven away
from their country by their adherence to the British Crown, here found a refuge and new home.
The whole land along the St. Lawrence, above the French settlements, was formed into townships,
and farms were allotted to these, the 'United Empire Loyalists,' who thus became the fathers
of Upper Canada. The population of Upper Canada was not more than 210,000 in 1830, now it is
nearly 1,000,000. Much of the land in the Province is equal to any in the world; and nature
seems to have given every aid to the formation of a great country. All that is wanting would
seem to be that independence, which, with all its reputed vices, would appear to be the condition
of Anglo-Saxon progress. Canada has been hitherto the resort of British settlers only, while
the United States have become a home for all the world."

What precedes was written nearly thirty-six years ago. I need not apologise for its crudeness,
for I only represent, in plain words, the impressions of the time. And I think I have troubled
the reader quite enough about my "first visit to America, and the reason for it." I may say,
however, that my trip induced many other visits to the growing countries of North America.
I was, to some extent, a pioneer traveller to the other side of the Atlantic.

CHAPTER XVIII.

The Reciprocity Treaty with the United States.

After asking various questions in the House of Commons, to which I received unsatisfactory
replies, I brought the subject of the Reciprocity Treaty with the United States before the
House of Commons late one night in February, 1865. My observations, as reported in "Hansard,"
were:--

"That the hour was too late to permit more than a speech in outline as to the Reciprocity Treaty
and the Bonding Acts. Under the latter, articles chargeable with duty could be sent through
United States territory and Canada in bond, and as Canada was for the present, and would be
until the completion of railway communication to Halifax on the Atlantic, cut off from access
to the ocean for five winter months of the year, the Bonding Acts enabled her commerce with
the outside world to pass unimpeded. The Northwestern States received in return corresponding
facilities of access through Canada. The Reciprocity Treaty included three essential provisions--the
rights of fishery on a shore line of 1,500 miles, the free navigation of the St. Lawrence,
and the free interchange of productions between the British Provinces and the United States.
(The beneficent theory of the treaty was to make two countries, politically distinct, commercially
one, and to induce the two peoples, otherwise opposed, to live in co-operation and in peace.)
The provision as to the fisheries had settled for the time difficult questions leading, in
past days, and over and over again, to dispute, collision, and sometimes the imminence of war.
The free navigation of the St. Lawrence and of Lake Michigan had removed jealousies and fostered
the idea of common interests in the great waterways to the ocean, while the results of trade
had been so happy that a total annual interchange of commodities of a value of nearly 10,000,000l.
a year in amount between the British Provinces and the United States now existed. They were
now threatened with the termination of this treaty at the end of twelve months, and no hope
appeared to be held out, so far, of an amicable revision and extension of its benefits. The
consequences to commerce were evident, and at first would be most serious. Trade at last, no
doubt, would take other channels, and the British Provinces, trading between each other and
with the Mother Country, and reducing their duties to a low rate, might at the end be largely
benefited at the price of a present loss; but that was merely the money view, and such a gain
would be dearly purchased at the cost of humanity and civilization if it broke up the commercial
and social union heretofore existing. He held that peace and progress and the future good relations
between Great Britain and the United States, on which peace and progress were largely based,
would suffer by such an isolation, and he would look with distrust upon a prosperity which
was not still shared between the people on each side of the border. He had travelled much on
both sides of the British lines, and it was cheering to see there how thoroughly one the two
peoples had become, socially and commercially. They traded together, went into partnership
together, visited together. A Canadian or New Brunswicker would often have a farm on each side
of the, practically imaginary, boundary line; and a citizen of the United States often lived
on his own and traded or manufactured on the other side of the border. In fact, the border
jealousies which had caused such bitterness and danger even in our own country had in this
generation all but disappeared in this case, under the operation of high-minded and far-sighted
legislation. Considering, therefore, the magnitude of the commercial interests, the grave questions
of navigation, ocean rights, and free communication, he must express the most anxious, surprise
to learn that Her Majesty's Government had allowed the matter to drift into its present position.
He was told that no effort whatever had been made to preserve the treaty as it was, or as it
might be amended, by negociations at Washington. His honorable friend, the Under-Secretary
for Foreign Affairs, had said, in answer to a question he had put in that House last May, that
no negociations were pending as to the Reciprocity Treaty, and that Government had no official
information upon the subject of the Bonding Acts. He was bound to take that answer as a correct
statement; and he then asked, Was it possible that her Majesty's Government could remain inactive
when a trade of 10,000,000l a year and the issues of future peace or disturbance were in the
balance? Were the proposed notice to terminate the treaty any matter of suddenness or by way
of surprise, he might comprehend it; but for above three years the subject had been agitated
and discussed in Congress, in Canada, and in all the Chambers of Commerce in the North-west.
It had been notorious to everybody that one party desired isolation from the British Provinces
and another desired the operations of the treaty to be extended. It was, therefore, a question
to be discussed in advance of the present entanglement; and, as Canada had no treaty-making
power, the responsibility rested with the Government at home. This was a question so serious
from every point of view that the House would have to take it up as soon as the noble lord
at the head of the Government laid upon the table the notice which he had told them would be
given on the 15th March next. Then would be the time to discuss it fully and in all its bearings.
His object now was to prepare for that discussion by obtaining all the facts. The papers laid
before the House last week did not go back far enough. It appeared that in the autumn of 1861
the New York Chamber of Commerce memorialized Congress for a revision of the treaty, and a
committee reported upon it in February, 1862. That report he had here. It did not advocate
notice; no, it advocated adherence to the principles of free exchange, and it proposed that
commissioners should negociate an extension of the treaty. In March, 1864, Mr. Ward reported
resolutions appointing commissioners for that purpose, and ultimately the discussion was postponed
to December, 1864. During all this time surely communications of some kind passed to or from
this country; and it was self-apparent that the treaty might have been revised and extended
before recent causes of irritation had appeared. Those causes had led to much bitter feeling,
and it might now be too late to restore the principle of the treaty and of the Bonding Acts
in all their integrity. He now moved for all papers subsequent to December, 1861, with a view
to further discussion hereafter. He would call attention to a very singular letter, given at
pages 70 and 77 in the papers printed last week. That letter had been intercepted by General
Augur, and was stated by Mr. Seward to be undoubtedly genuine. He would ask whether any explanation
of that letter had been offered by his Excellency the American Minister, Mr. Adams? And, if
so, why that explanation had not been printed? The letter was from a Confederate agent residing
in Canada, apparently to Mr. Seddon, the Confederate Secretary for War. It must have been written
at the end of October last year. It stated that the writer had made an arrangement with parties
'powerful and influential with the Government of the United States' to deliver supplies of
meat in exchange for cotton, 'at any port Mr. Secretary Seddon may designate on the east side
of the Mississippi,' or on 'the west side,' and after this delivery it was said that 'the way
was perfectly clear to deliver anywhere within General Butler's department.' He adds, that
he has made another contract with another Federal American citizen, 'by which supplies of meat
will be furnished at Mobile by written permission of the President of the United States to
the free passage of the blockading fleet at that port.' His contract, he says, is for 5,000,000
lbs. of meat in exchange for 5,000,000 lbs. of cotton. Now, if this were true, it opened up
a very large question. Merchants in England who had run the blockade had been most properly
censured for the practice. Their having done so was naturally matter of diplomatic complaint;
but here were the seal and the signature of the President of the United States himself made
use of to send supplies to the enemy on the one hand, and to give cotton to the manufacturers
of the Northern States on the other. He thought that letter ought not to have been printed
without some comment. If explanations had been given by Mr. Adams and were not printed, the
omission was a slight; and he thought a good understanding with the United States, desired
so sincerely by, he hoped, the House at large, would not be promoted by its publication."

The "Observer," referring to this speech, made the following remarks:--

"There is a great disadvantage in bringing any important question before the House of Commons
at a late hour of the night, because in such a case it is impossible, arising from the exigencies
of the morning papers, that full justice can be done by the parliamentary reporters to the
speech of the speaker. An illustration, of this occurred on Friday evening. Mr. Watkin, in
moving for papers respecting the Reciprocity Treaty between the United States and the British
North American Provinces, entered at considerable length and with great ability into that important
subject. His speech will be found in another part of our impression. It would not be easy to
overrate the importance of the interests to this country involved in the question which Mr.
Watkin so lucidly brought before the House. He showed that under the operation of the existing
treaty British trading interests to the extent of 10,000,000l. per annum were involved. This
is no inconsiderable sum. Assuredly it is much too large to be heedlessly sacrificed if means
can be found consistent with the honour of the country to prevent it. And yet, notwithstanding
the great and manifest importance of the subject, and though the United States have given notice
of their intention to terminate the treaty in twelve months from the present time, it would
appear that no steps have yet been taken on the part of the Imperial Government to avert the
evils of which the termination of that treaty would be productive to the British North American
Provinces, and through them to the Mother Country; for, apart from the stoppage that would
ensue to the international trade now existing between the States and Canada and her sister
provinces, the old vexed question as to the right of Americans to participate in the fisheries
in the Gulf of the St. Lawrence, along a shore upwards of 1,500 miles in length, is again raised.
To call attention to these facts was the main object of Mr. Watkin's speech. He had no wish
to embarass the Government in any way, but was simply desirous of impressing on it the importance
of early action in the matter, with the view to the preservation or modification of the Reciprocity
Treaty. It is to be hoped, now the matter has been so fully and ably brought before the British
Government, that steps will be immediately taken to enter into such negotiations with the United
States as will secure this desirable result. If this were done, we cannot doubt that the Government
of the United States will respond in a friendly spirit to the wishes of our own Government,
and that not only the best results will follow as regards the treaty in question, but also
as regards the general commercial relations between the United States, the British North American
Provinces, and this country."

I felt so strongly that great opportunities had been lost owing to the negligence and incapacity
of our rulers, that I drew up and widely circulated, various memoranda, intended to inform
public opinion in England. I felt convinced that, if once this wise and fraternal treaty were
allowed to expire, the future relations of the British Provinces and Canada must gravitate
towards antagonism, or towards annexation. My forebodings are, at this moment, justified by
the action of the United States Congress in the matter of the fisheries. Because Canada has
enforced the provisions of the, still existing, and recognized, Treaty of 1818, the Congress
of the United States has, in 1887, by statute, instructed the President to put in operation
odious "reprisals"-- reprisals which throw the "Milan Decrees" of the first Napoleon into the
shade of barbarism. The President, believed to be an enlightened man, threatens to put his
powers into strict operation. If he goes to the full length of this unique enactment, he may
practically close all industrial, and even social, intercourse between the British territory
--a territory larger in area than that over which he rules--and the United States. Such legislation,
so eagerly acted on, is simply sickening. Talk of fraternity and liberty for all mankind. Delusion
--mockery.

A concise resume of this question, written by me in 1865, here follows:--

"A treaty of amity and commerce between Great Britain and the United States of America, known
as the 'Reciprocity Treaty,' [Endnote 1] has been allowed to expire with the expiry of the
twelve months' notice, given on the 17th March, 1865, by the Government at Washington, under
the authority of the Senate.

"No explanation has been given to Parliament; nor has a single paper of any kind been laid
upon the table of the House by Her Majesty's Government. It is, therefore, thought to be time
to ask for explanations, and thereby, so far as may now be possible, to prevent that gradual
'drifting' into serious complication which disfigured the transactions of the Whig Government
in 1854 (Russian war), in 1861-2 (Poland), and in 1863-4 (Denmark). The Reciprocity Treaty
provided not merely for free interchange of commodities between Her Majesty's North American
Colonies and the United States, but it settled the fishery complications, on a coast line of
4,000 miles, and provided for the international navigation of the St. Lawrence (1,200 miles),
and of the canals and locks of that mighty river, and of Lake Michigan and its tributaries.
It thus dealt with questions which, unsettled and in doubt, had led to antagonism and the recurring
danger of war; and, in the twelve years of its existence, its operation has alike enlarged
the commerce and the friendship of the neighbouring subjects of the two powers parties to the
treaty. Perhaps no convention of modern times has more tended to produce material prosperity
and peace and goodwill amongst those concerned. But it has been, it is repeated, allowed to
expire, and, as will be shown, owing mainly to the culpable negligence and maladroit management
of those who have had charge of British interests.

"On the 27th June, 1854, Lord Clarendon said in the House of Lords, in answer to a question
put by Lord Fitzwilliam (see 'Hansard's Debates,' 27th June, 1854):--

"'It appeared to Her Majesty's Government that the return of Lord Elgin to Canada afforded
an opportunity which ought not to be neglected, of endeavouring to settle those numerous questions
which for years past have been embarrassing the two Governments. One of those questions especially,
that relating to the fisheries, has given rise to annually increasing causes of contention,
and has sometimes threatened collisions, which, I believe, have only been averted for the last
two years by the firmness and moderation of Sir George Seymour and of the British and American
naval commanders, and by that spirit of friendship and forbearance which has always characterized
the officers of both navies. But, my Lords, your Lordships are aware that there are other questions
which have given rise to embarrassing discussion between the Governments of the two countries--questions
which involve the commercial relations of our North American possessions with the United States,
and that those questions, which involve very divergent interests, have become so complicated
as to render their solution a matter of extreme difficulty.' And he added, 'I trust, therefore,
that nothing will occur to mar the completion of this great work, which, I firmly believe,
more than any other event of recent times, will contribute to remove all differences between
two countries, whose similarity of language and affinity of race, whose enterprise and industry,
ought to unite them in the bonds of cordial friendship, and to perpetuate feelings of mutual
confidence and goodwill.'

"In the conversation which ensued all parties coincided as to the vast importance of the treaty,
and Lord Derby, while doing so, took the opportunity of insisting that Her Majesty's Government
should keep such treaty negociations affecting the whole Empire in their own hands, and not
permit them to be dependent upon the will or consent of the local authorities. He said (see
'Hansard,' 1854):--

"'He was afraid that if we had to consult the Colonies, with respect to a treaty with a foreign
country, the effect would be that in such questions the Colonies would be independent.'

"It is well specially here to note, that the Government of that day, speaking by Lord Clarendon,
considered it as a condition, that the person highest in dignity, authority, and ability should
be selected as the fittest negociator; and that Lord Derby gave a caution which all who regard
the British Empire as 'one and indivisible,' must coincide in. It will be seen hereafter how,
in the present case, the actual Government has departed from both the condition and the caution.

"An extract from a letter from Mr. John Bright, M.P., to Mr. Joseph Aspinall, of Detroit, Michigan,
in response to an invitation to attend the Reciprocity Convention, held last year, will illustrate
the benevolent idea of the treaty, and exhibit the opinion of a distinguished admirer of the
United States upon the renewal of the instrument. The letter, itself, is dated London, 10th
June, 1865. 'The project of your convention gives me great pleasure. I hope it will lead to
a renewal of commercial intercourse with the British North American Provinces, for it will
be a miserable thing if, because they are in connection with the British Crown, and you acknowledge
as your Chief Magistrate your President at Washington, there should not be a commercial intercourse
between them and you, as free as if you were one people, living under one Government.'

"To make 'one people,' though living under two separate Governments, was the great, and has
been the successful, object of Lord Elgin and Mr. Marcy. But the 'miserable thing' has happened,
and the treaty is at an end.

"On the 23rd May, 1864, I put a question on the subject of the renewal of this treaty. The
question and the answer of the Under-Secretary for Foreign Affairs were as follows:--

[From "HANSARD," Monday, May 2nd, 1864.]

"'Mr. Watkin said he wished to ask the Undersecretary of State for Foreign Affairs to state
the present position of negociations with the Government of the United States in reference
to the proposed termination or repeal by the United States of the "Reciprocity Treaty," and
of the "Bonding Act," under which instruments facilities for mutual commercial interchange
have been afforded, and a large and increasing trade has grown up with the colonies of British
North America?

"'Mr. Layard, in reply, said there were no negociations pending with regard to the suspension
or repeal of the Reciprocity Treaty, and the Government had received no official information
upon the subject of the "Bonding Acts."'

"On the 17th February, 1865, I again called attention to the question becoming more and more
urgent, by moving for 'Copies of all papers in the possession of Her Majesty's Government respecting
the Reciprocity Treaty and the Bonding Acts, of dates subsequent to December, 1861.'

"In reply, the Under-Secretary for Foreign Affairs said (see 'Hansard,' 17th Feb. 1865):--

"'He had only to report what was stated by the noble lord the other night, that there were
no papers on the subject of the Reciprocity Treaty; as the hon. gentleman was aware, no notice
with respect to the treaty had been given to Her Majesty's Government. Resolutions on the subject
had been submitted to Congress, but there had been no intimation given to Her Majesty's Government,
consequently, there were really no papers to lay on the table.'

"Thus we have it on the direct declaration of the organ of the Government, that no negociations
were undertaken having any reference to the retention or renewal of the treaty up to the 23rd
May, 1864; and that there were no 'papers' even in the possession of the Government up to the
17th February, 1865, bearing upon so momentous an international question.

"The Bonding Act, or Acts, are above alluded to; and it will be well here to state, that under
these Acts of the Congress of the United States, goods liable to United States duties may be
sent in bond through United States territory into and through Canada or New Brunswick. In fact,
but for this privilege, Canada would be, under present circumstances, shut out for the five
months of her winter from access to Europe. That access could, of course, be given by the construction
of the remaining links of the 'Inter-colonial' Railway (about 360 miles), connecting Halifax,
Nova Scotia, with Quebec and the Canadian railway system; but pending such construction, it
is in the power of the United States thus to isolate Canada. Being in their power, we may ask,
What is their intention? and we may ask, What have the Government done to ascertain the one
and prevent the other? Have they ever thought of danger? Certainly, in May, 1864, both Mr.
Cardwell, the Colonial Secretary, and Mr. Layard, the Undersecretary for Foreign Affairs, were
puzzled to know what was meant by the 'Bonding Acts.'

"Particulars of these Acts are given in a note below. [Endnote 2]

"We must now briefly sketch the history of the discussions and events which more immediately
preceded the notice of the 17th March, 1865, given by the United States Government and Senate,
to put an end to the treaty. Subsequent to the treaty (1854) Great Britain (1859) founded the
Colonies of British Columbia and Vancouver's Island on the North Pacific. For this we are indebted
to the then colonial minister, Sir E. Bulwer Lytton. The first gave a new gold field; the second
contains all the bituminous coal to be found on the west side of the great North American Continent.
These new countries were not embraced in the operation of the treaty; nor does it seem that
after Sir E. Bulwer Lytton left office, any effort was made to enlarge the operations of the
treaty. But of course American commerce was anxious to extend itself, and Californian and American
cruisers in the Pacific wanted the coal of Vancouver. Hence a party in the States was formed
for an extension of the area of the treaty. Then Canada, having established her railway system
by the aid of British capital, and having expended large sums to promote public works generally,
got into debt and had to raise her taxation; and as import duties are, and must always be,
most easy of collection in a new country, and the most popular, or rather the least unpopular,
mode of taxation, she raised her import duties generally to a scale as high on many articles,
if not higher, than the import duties of the United States. This led to complaint; and hence
a party was formed in the United States for an extension of the 'free list,' or list of articles
to be admitted duty free into Canada. It is but fair to bear in mind that the Canadian import
duties on United States goods were the same as those on British goods; so that whatever ground
of complaint might be set up, Great Britain had the right to the largest share of it, because
she had the ocean freights to add to the duty, and pro tanto was at a disadvantage in competing
for Canadian custom with the manufacturers of the States.

"In 1861 the Chamber of Commerce of New York moved Congress on the whole subject. Their object
was the extension of the area and purposes of the treaty: in no sense its termination. Congress,
hereupon, referred the matter to the 'Committee on Commerce,' Mr. Ward being chairman. That
committee reported in February, 1862, in a most able document, usually known as Mr. Ward's
report. This report also recommended a more extended area, and more extended purposes; but
in no sense the abrogation of the treaty.

In March, 1864, Mr. Ward proposed a resolution in Congress for the appointment of commissioners
to negociate an extended and improved treaty with Great Britain. That resolution was laid over
by Congress till December, 1864. In the summer and autumn of 1864 a correspondence sprang up
between Earl Russell, Mr. Seward, Mr. Adams and others in reference to the dangers of the invasion
of the territory of the United States by Confederate agents asylumed in Canada. Mr. Seward
and Mr. Adams strongly urged that preventive measures should be taken by Great Britain, but
Earl Russell could not see it--did nothing, and the burning of United States steamers engaged
in peaceful commerce, and the robbery and murders at St. Albans and Vermont followed. Correspondence
in reference to the 'St. Albans' raids' was laid before Parliament last year. The following
is an extract, bearing, too, indirectly upon the Reciprocity Treaty, from one of the letters
of Mr. Adams, United States Ambassador in London, to Earl Russell, echoing a despatch of Mr.
Seward's and dated November 23rd, 1864:--

'In the use of the word exigency, the full sense of its effect is perfectly understood. The
welfare and prosperity of the neighbouring British Provinces are as sincerely desired on our
part as they can be by Great Britain. In a practical sense they are sources of wealth and influence
for the one country only in a less degree than for the other, though the jurisdiction appertain
only to the latter. That this is the sincere conviction of my Government has been proved by
its consent to enter into relations of reciprocal free commerce with them almost as intimate
as those which prevail between the several States of the Union themselves. Thus far the disposition
has been to remain content with those relations under any and all circumstances, and that disposition
will doubtless continue, provided always that the amity be reciprocated, and that the peace
and harmony on the border, indispensable to its existence, be firmly secured. The fulfilment
of that obligation must be, however, as your Lordship cannot fail to perceive at a glance,
the essential and paramount condition of the preservation of the compact. Even were my Government
to profess its satisfaction with less, it must be apparent that by the very force of circumstances
peace could scarcely be expected to continue long in a region where no adequate security should
be afforded to the inhabitants against mutual aggression and reprisal.

'Political agitation, terminating at times in civil strife, is shown by experience to be incident
to the lot of mankind, however combined in society. Neither is an evil confined to any particular
region or race. It has happened heretofore in Canada, and what is now a scourge afflicting
the United States may be likely at some time or other to re- visit her. In view of these very
obvious possibilities, I am instructed to submit to Her Majesty's Government the question whether
it would not be the part of wisdom to establish such a system of repression now as might prove
a rock of safety for the rapidly multiplying population of both countries for all future time.

                              "'I pray, &c.,
                                "'(Signed) CHARLES FRANCIS ADAMS.'

"But the 'Alabama' correspondence was also going on, and a new Congress had to sit in 1865.
Was it then surprising that on the 17th March, 1865, notice to put an end to the treaty was given?

"But in July, 1865, a convention, already alluded to (see Mr. Bright's letter), composed of
delegates from New York, Philadelphia, Baltimore, Cincinnati, St. Louis, Boston, Portland,
and in fact from almost every important town and district of the States north of Washington,
assembled at Detroit to consider the expiry of the treaty and the question of its renewal.
After long and earnest deliberations they unanimously approved the notice given, and as unanimously
passed the following resolution for transmission to the Government of the United States:--

"'That the convention do respectfully request the President of the United States to enter into
negociations with the Government of Great Britain, having in view the execution of a treaty
between the two countries, for reciprocity and commercial intercourse between the United States
and the several Provinces of British North America, including British Columbia, the Selkirk
Settlement, and Vancouver's Island, upon principles which should be just and equitable to all
parties, and which also shall include the free navigation of the St. Lawrence and other rivers
of British North America, with such improvements of the rivers, and enlargement of the canals,
as shall render them adequate for the requirements of the west communicating with the ocean.'

"At the time of passing this resolution a 'Revenue Commission' was sitting, and its members
recommended the Secretary of the Treasury, Mr. McCulloch, to have a special report upon the
treaty and its renewal. The task was, thereupon, committed to Mr. E. H. Derby, of Boston. The
Commission also includes this subject in their report. Their report (dated January, 1866,) says:--

"'In accordance with the resolutions of Congress and the notification of the Executive, the
commercial arrangement known as the "Reciprocity Treaty," under which the trade and commerce
between the United States and the British Provinces of North America have been carried on since
1854, expires on the 17th day of March, 1866. The consideration of the effect which the termination
of this important commercial arrangement is likely to have upon the revenue, as well as upon
the trade and commerce of the United States, has legitimately formed a part of the duties devolving
upon the Commission; and has also been especially commended to their attention by the Secretary
of the Treasury. The Commission do not, however, propose to present in this connection any
review of the history of the treaty, or of the circumstances which, in the opinion of Congress,
have rendered its termination expedient. This work has already been performed, under the auspices
of the Treasury Department, by E. H. Derby, Esq., of Boston, to whose able and exhaustive report
the Commission would refer, without, however, endorsing its conclusions. There are, however,
certain points connected with this subject to which the Commission would ask special attention.
[Footnote: The value of the import and export trade of the United States with the following
countries for the year ending June 30th, 1864, was, according to the Treasury Report, as follows
(in round numbers):

Great Britain ...................... $317,000,000 British North America ..............   68,000,000
Spanish West Indies ................   57,000,000 France .............................   29,000,000
Hamburg and Bremen .................   29,000,000 Mexico .............................   20,000,000
Brazil .............................   19,000,000 China ..............................   19,000,000
British West Indies ................   12,000,000]

"'It may also, they think, be fairly assumed that taking into consideration the growth of the
two countries in population and wealth, (that of Canada for the last ten years having preserved
a nearly equal ratio in this respect with that of the United States,) the trade as at present
existing is really but in its infancy, and that the future may be expected to develop an increase
equally as great as that of the past.

"'A change in the conditions under which a reciprocal commerce of such magnitude is carried
on, and is now developing, ought not, therefore, to be made without the most serious consideration.

"'As regards the present treaty, the Commission, as the result of their investigations, have
been led to the conclusion that its continuance, under existing circumstances, unless accompanied
with certain important modifications, is not desirable on the part of the United States.

"'They, however, are also unanimous in the opinion, that, in view of the close geographical
connection of the United States with the British Provinces--rendering them in many respects
but one country--and of the magnitude of the commercial relations existing between them, it
would be impolitic and to the detriment of the interests of the United States to decline the
consideration of all propositions looking to the re- establishment of some future and satisfactory
international commercial arrangement. Such a course would be in entire opposition to the spirit
of the age, the liberality of our people, and the policy of rapidly developing our resources
as a means of diminishing the burden of our public debt.

"'In view of such an arrangement, the question of whether either of the parties to the treaty
has, or has not, conformed to the spirit of its stipulations, is of little importance. It is
the future, not the past, that we are to consider; and if advantageous terms for the future
are offered--terms which are calculated to promote the development of the trade and commerce
of the United States, encourage good feeling and prevent difficulties with our neighbours,
and at the same time protect the revenues of the country from serious and increasing frauds--it
would be, in the opinion of the Commission, most impolitic to disregard them.

"'The offer on the part of the provincial authorities to re-negociate in respect to the commercial
relations of the two countries, is in itself an expression of desire to make an arrangement
that must be, in every respect, reciprocal; inasmuch as it is evident that no treaty can, for
any length of time, continue that does not conduce to the benefit of both parties.

"'It is evident that the necessities of the United States will for many years require the imposition
of high rates of taxation on many articles, and that with the production of such articles free,
or assessed at low rates of duty, in the British Provinces, the enforcement of the excise laws
on the borders will be a matter of no little difficulty, annoyance and expense; and under all
ordinary conditions a large annual loss of the revenue must inevitably occur. The experience
of all the nations of Europe has shown that to attempt to wholly prevent smuggling, under the
encouragement of high rates of duty, is an utter impossibility. If, however, such an arrangement
can be made with the British Provinces as will ensure a nearly or quite complete equalization
of duties--excise and customs--it must be apparent that all evasions of the revenue laws by
smugglers would instantly come to an end; and that the attainment of the above result would
be of immense advantage to the United States in a revenue point of view.

"'Again: it is also urged that under the existing system the products of American industry
subject to high rates of excise, are injuriously brought into competition with similar products
of provincial industry which are subjected to little or no excise, and then admitted into the
United States free of duty. That such is the fact cannot be denied; and is itself a reason
why the abrogation or modification of the present Reciprocity Treaty has become imperative.
But if it were possible to effect such an arrangement with the British Provinces as would allow
the imposition of duties equivalent to the American excise on all articles of provincial production
passing into the United States, it seems clear that the afore-mentioned objection would be
entirely removed.

"'As the whole subject, however, is now before Congress for consideration, the Commission do
not consider it as within their province to submit any specific recommendations; but would
content themselves with merely pointing out that, under certain circumstances, conditions of
great advantage to the United States, in a revenue point of view, might be secured.'

"Mr. Derby's report contains much that is sensational, and many curious admissions, but its
general tenor is strongly in favour of a new treaty, regard being had to the revenue necessities
of the United States; i.e., that articles admitted into the United States from Canada should
pay a duty equivalent to the internal revenue tax on the same articles charged in the States.
This is just as if Great Britain said that brandy from France coming into England should pay
a duty equivalent to the English excise duty upon spirits, which would be quite fair.

"The next fact in the history is that delegates from Canada, New Brunswick, and Nova Scotia,
are found at Washington on the 24th January, 1866, and that they remain there till the 24th
February, on which day they report that after many days' discussion they have failed to do
anything, and that the Reciprocity Treaty is finally at an end.

"Our Government having done nothing, the Provinces, it would appear, had, at the last moment,
to send 'delegates' themselves to negociate; a mode of procedure altogether very unlike the
action of 1854.

"The following papers give a resume of the discussion :--

                              "WASHINGTON,
                                 "February 7th, 1866.
"'SIR,

"'We have the honour to inform Your Excellency that our negociations for the renewal of Reciprocal
Trade with the United States have terminated unsuccessfully. You have been informed from time
to time of our proceedings, but we propose briefly to recapitulate them.

"'On our arrival here, after consultation with Your Excellency, we addressed ourselves with
your sanction to the Secretary of the Treasury, and we were by him put in communication with
the Committee of Ways and Means of the House of Representatives. After repeated interviews
with them, and on ascertaining that no renewal or extension of the existing treaty would be
made by the American authorities, but that whatever was done must be by legislation, we submitted
as the basis upon which we desired arrangements to be made the enclosed paper (marked A).

"'In reply we received the Memorandum from the Committee, of which a copy is enclosed (B).
And finding after discussion that no important modifications in their views could be obtained,
and that we were required to consider their proposition as a whole, we felt ourselves under
the necessity of declining it, which was done by the Memorandum also enclosed (C).

"'It is proper to explain the grounds of our final action.

"'It will be observed that the most important provisions of the expiring treaty, relating to
the free interchange of the products of the two countries, were entirely set aside, and that
the duties proposed to be levied were almost prohibitory in their character. The principal
object for our entering into negociations was therefore unattainable, and we had only to consider
whether the minor points were such as to make it desirable for us to enter into specific engagements.

"'These points are three in number.

"'With regard to the first--the proposed mutual use of the waters of Lake Michigan and the
St. Lawrence--we considered that the present arrangements were sufficient, and that the common
interests of both countries would prevent their disturbance. We were not prepared to yield
the right of interference in the imposition of tolls upon our canals. We believed, moreover,
that the privilege allowed the United States of navigating the waters of the St. Lawrence was
very much more than an equivalent for our use of Lake Michigan.

"'Upon the second point--providing for the free transit of goods under bond between the two
countries--we believed that in this respect, as in the former case, the interests of both countries
would secure the maintenance of existing regulations. Connected with this point was the demand
made for the abolition of the free ports existing in Canada, which we were not disposed to
concede, especially in view of the extremely unsatisfactory position in which it was proposed
to place the trade between the two countries.

"'On both the above points, we do not desire to be understood as stating that the existing
arrangements should not be extended and placed on a more permanent basis, but only that, taken
apart from the more important interests involved, it did not appear to us this time necessary
to deal with them exceptionally.

"'With reference to the third and last point--the concessions of the right of fishing in provincial
waters--we considered the equivalent proposed for so very valuable a right to be utterly inadequate.
The admission of a few unimportant articles free, with the establishment of a scale of high
duties as proposed, would not, in our opinion, have justified us in yielding this point.

"'While we regret this unfavourable termination of the negociations, we are not without hope
that, at no distant day, they may be resumed with a better prospect of a satisfactory result.

                  "'We have the honour to be,
                    "'Your Excellency's most obedient Servants,

                      "'A. T. GALT, Minister of Finance, Canada.
                      "'W. P. HOWLAND, Postmaster General, Canada.
                      "'W. A. HENRY, Attorney General, Nova Scotia,
                      "'A. J. SMITH, Attorney General, New Brunswick.

"'To His Excellency, SIR FREDERICK BRUCE, K.C.B., &c., &c., &c.'"

"'MEMORANDUM A.

"'The trade between the United States and the British Provinces should, it is believed, under
ordinary circumstances, be free in reference to their natural productions; but as internal
taxes exceptionally exist in the United States, it is now proposed that the articles embraced
in the free list of the Reciprocity Treaty should continue to be exchanged, subject only to
such duties as may be equivalent to that internal taxation. It is suggested that both parties
may add certain articles to those now in the said list. With reference to the fisheries and
the navigation of the internal waters of the continent, the British Provinces are willing that
the existing regulations should continue in effect; but Canada is ready to enter into engagements
with the view of improving the means of access to the ocean, provided the assurance be given
that the trade of the Western States will not be diverted from its natural channel by legislation;
and if the United States are not prepared at present to consider the general opening of their
coasting trade, it would appear desirable that, as regards the internal waters of the Continent,
no distinction should be made between the vessels of the two countries.

"'If the foregoing points be satisfactorily arranged, Canada is willing to adjust her excise
duties upon spirits, beer and tobacco upon the best revenue standard which may be mutually
adopted after full consideration of the subject; and if it be desired to treat any other articles
in the same way the disposition of the Canadian Government is to give every facility in their
power to prevent illicit trade.

"'With regard to the transit trade, it is suggested that the same regulations should exist
on both sides and be defined by law. Canada is also prepared to make her patent laws similar
to those of the United States.

"'WASHINGTON, D.C.,
   "'Feb. 2, 1866.'"

"'MEMORANDUM B.

"'In response to the Memorandum of the Hon. Mr. Galt and his associates, Hon. Mr. Smith, Hon.
Mr. Henry, and the Hon. Mr. Howland, the Committee of Ways and Means, with the approval of
the Secretary of the Treasury, are prepared to recommend to the House of Representatives for
their adoption a law providing for the continuance of some of the measures embraced in the
Reciprocity Treaty, soon to expire, viz.--For the use and privileges as enjoyed now under said
treaty in the waters of Lake Michigan, provided the same rights and privileges are conceded
to the citizens of the United States by Canada in the waters of the St. Lawrence and its canals
as are enjoyed by British subjects, without discrimination as to tolls and charging rates proportioned
to canal distance; also for the free transit of goods, wares, and merchandize in bond, under
proper regulations, by railroad across the territory of the United States to and from Portland
and the Canada line; provided equal privileges shall be conceded to the United States from
Windsor or Port Sarnia, or other western points of departure to Buffalo or Ogdensburg, or any
other points eastward, and that the free ports established in the Provinces shall be abolished;
also the bounties now given to American fishermen shall be repealed, and duties not higher
imposed upon fish than those mentioned in Schedule A., provided that all the rights of fishing
near the shores existing under the treaty heretofore mentioned shall be granted and conceded
by the United States to the Provinces, and by the Provinces to the United States.

"'It is also further proposed that the following list of articles shall be mutually free:--

                   Burr Millstones, unwrought.
                   Cotton and Linen Rags.
                   Firewood.
                   Grindstones, rough or unfinished.
                   Gypsum or plaster, unground.

"'SCHEDULE A.

FISH--Mackerel                                $1 50 per bbl "     Herrings, pickled or salted
1 00     " "     Salmon                                   2 50     " "     Shad           
2 00     " "     All other, pickled                       1 50     "

"'Provided that any fish in packages other than barrels shall pay in proportion to the rates
charged upon similar fish in barrels.

All other Fish                                  1/3 cent per lb

"'As to the duties which will be proposed upon the other articles included in the treaty, the
following are submitted, viz.-

Animals, living, all sorts                      20 per cent  ad val
Apples and Garden Fruit and Vegetables          10    "         "
Barley                                          15 cts  per bushel
Beans (except Vanilla or Castor Oil)            30    "        "
Beef                                             1 ct  per lb
Buckwheat                                       10 cts  per bushel
Butter                                           4    "      lb
Cheese                                           4    "       "
Corn (Indian) and Oats                          10 cts  per bushel
Corn-meal (Indian) and Oatmeal                  15  "         "
Coal, bituminous                                50  "        ton
  "   all other                                 25  "         "
Flour                                           25 per cent, ad val
Hams                                             2 cts per lb
Hay                                          $1 00 per ton
Hides                                           10 per cent  ad val
Lard                                             3 cts  per lb
Lumber--
Pine, round or in the log                    $1 50 per M
" sawed or hewn                               2 50   "
" planed, tongued and grooved or finish'd       25 per cent  ad val
Spruce and Hemlock, sawed or hewn            $1 00 per M
Planed, finished or partly finished             25 per cent  ad val
Shingle bolts                                   10     "        "
Shingles                                        20     "        "
All other, of Black Walnut, Chesnut, Bass,
White Wood, Ash, Oak, round, hewed or sawed     20     "        "
Planed, tongued and grooved or finished         25     "        "
Ores                                            10     "        "
Peas                                            25 cts  per bushel
Pork                                             1 ct  per lb
Potatoes                                        10 cts  per bushel
Seed, Timothy, and Clover                       20 per cent  ad val
Trees, Plants and Shrubs, Ornamental and Fruit  15    "         "
Tallow                                           2 cts  per lb
Wheat                                           20 cts  per bushel

"'MEMORANDUM C.

"'In reference to the Memorandum received from the Committee of Ways and Means, the Provincial
Delegates regret to be obliged to state that the proposition therein contained in regard to
the commercial relations between the two countries is not such as they can recommend for the
adoption of their respective Legislatures. The imposts which it is proposed to lay upon the
productions of the British Provinces on their entry into the markets of the United States are
such as in their opinion will be in some cases prohibitory, and will certainly seriously interfere
with the natural course of trade. These imposts are so much beyond what the delegates conceive
to be an equivalent for the internal taxation of the United States, that they are reluctantly
brought to the conclusion that the Committee no longer desire the trade between the two countries
to be carried on upon the principle of reciprocity. With the concurrence of the British Minister
at Washington, they are therefore obliged respectfully to decline to enter into the engagement
suggested in the memorandum, but they trust that the present views of the United States may
soon be so far modified as to permit of the interchange of the productions of the two countries
upon a more liberal basis.

"'WASHINGTON,
   "'February 6th, 1866.'

"This abortive negociation was followed (March, 1866) by a United States Bill for enabling
a new treaty upon impossible terms; that Bill was at last hung up in Congress, and so the matter
ended, so far as the States were concerned.

"The operation of the treaty from 1854 to 1866 may now be considered.

"The Report of the Revenue Commissioners shows that the trade under it increased from 20,000,000
dollars, to 68,000,000 dollars in 1864, and that this trade was larger than the trade of the
United States with any country in the world except Great Britain. It was 31/2 times more than
with China; 31/2 times more than with Brazil; above 3 times more than with even Mexico; 21/4
times more than with Hamburg and Bremen, notwithstanding the direct line of steamers to and
from New York; 21/4 times more than with France, with all its wines, silks, and fashions; and
one-third more than with Cuba and the Spanish West Indies.

"Then, on the whole, 'the balance of trade,' as it is called, was in favour of the States during
the whole period of the treaty by a sum of 56,000,000 dollars.

"As regards coal, the quantity taken in 1865-6 from Pennsylvania and other States to Upper
Canada was about 180,000 tons; while the quantity of Nova Scotian coal taken to Boston and
the Eastern States was about 200,000 tons. Thus the supply of districts 1,000 miles apart had
nearly balanced itself under the treaty. As regards fishing rights, the United States appeared
largely to have the advantage, for they had, by the treaty, access to excellent fishing grounds
and passage through the Gut of Canso, while the provincial fishermen rarely troubled the coasts
of Maine or Massachusetts--'bare pastures' for fish. As an example, the boats employed by the
United States in the mackerel fishery in 1852 were 250, the tonnage 18,150 tons, and the value
750,000 dollars, while the catch of fish was 850,000 dollars; while in 1864 it showed 600 vessels,
54,000 tons, 9,000 men, and a catch worth 4,567,500 dollars. This may be true. Or it may be
true that the Foreign Office have had papers, and the Colonial not. Or that the Board of Trade
have had papers, and the Foreign and Colonial people have not; but, however that may be, Canada
has made, in good time, very serious representations. It is believed that her Government had
long before made personal appeals to both the Colonial and the Foreign Offices, but the following
document (19th February, 1865), will speak for itself; and the Government at home cannot deny
that they had it, but which of the three departments will admit its receipt is yet to be seen;
always let it be remembered that in May, 1865, there were 'no papers:'--

"'Copy of a Report of a Committee of the Honorable the Executive Council, approved by his Excellency
the Governor-General on the 19th February, 1865.

"'The Committee of the Executive Council deem it to be their duty to represent to Your Excellency
that the recent proceedings in the Congress of the United States, respecting the Reciprocity
Treaty, have excited the deepest concern in the minds of the people of this Province.

"'Those proceedings have had for their avowed object the abrogation of the treaty at the earliest
moment consistent with the stipulations of the instrument itself.

"'Although no formal action indicative of the strength of the party hostile to the continuance
of the treaty has yet taken place, information, of an authentic character, as to the opinions
and purposes of influential public men in the United States has forced upon the Committee the
conviction that there is imminent danger of its abrogation, unless prompt and vigorous steps
be taken by Her Majesty's Imperial advisers to avert what would be generally regarded by the
people of Canada as a great calamity.

"'The Committee would specially bring under Your Excellency's notice the importance of instituting
negociations for the renewal of the treaty, with such modifications as may be mutually assented
to, before the year's notice required to terminate it shall be given by the American Government;
for they fear that the notice, if once given, would not be revoked; and they clearly foresee
that, owing to the variety and possibly the conflicting nature of the interests involved on
our own side, a new treaty could not be concluded, and the requisite legislation to give effect
to it obtained before the year would have expired, and with it the treaty.  Under such circumstances--even
with the certain prospect of an early renewal of the treaty--considerable loss and much inconvenience
would inevitably ensue.

"'It would be impossible to express in figures, with any approach to accuracy, the extent to
which the facilities of commercial intercourse created by the Reciprocity Treaty have contributed
to the wealth and prosperity of this Province; and it would be difficult to exaggerate the
importance which the people of Canada attach to the continued enjoyment of these facilities.

"'Nor is the subject entirely devoid of political significance.

"'Under the beneficent operation of the system of self-government, which the later policy of
the Mother Country has accorded to Canada, in common with the other Colonies possessing representative
institutions, combined with the advantages secured by the Reciprocity Treaty of an unrestricted
commerce with our nearest neighbours in the natural productions of the two countries, all agitation
for organic changes has ceased--all dissatisfaction with the existing political relations of
the Province has wholly disappeared.

"'Although the Committee would grossly misrepresent their countrymen if they were to affirm
that their loyalty to their Sovereign would be diminished in the slightest degree by the withdrawal,
through the unfriendly action of a foreign Government, of mere commercial privileges, however
valuable these might be deemed, they think they cannot err in directing the attention of the
enlightened statesmen who wield the destinies of the great Empire, of which it is the proudest
boast of Canadians that their country forms a part, to the connection which is usually found
to exist between the material prosperity and the political contentment of a people, for in
doing so they feel that they are appealing to the highest motives that can actuate patriotic
statesmen--the desire to perpetuate a dominion founded on the affectionate allegiance of a
prosperous and contented people.

"'The Committee venture to express the hope that Your Excellency will be pleased to bring this
subject and the considerations now submitted under the notice of Her Majesty's Imperial advisers.

"'W. H. LEE, C. E. C.'

"Does it not seem as if the whole business was let alone, neglected, despised?

"What were our Government doing from 1861 to 1865?

"POLAND exercised the minds of the Foreign Office from an early date, and they have given us
papers from July 31st, 1862, December 31st of that year, and on to April 23rd, 1863, when that
affair ended.

"DENMARK revived their old discussions in 1863, and they began to write despatches about them.
They have given Parliament papers about the 'Conference,' which only began January 23rd, 1864,
and ended March 26th, 1864.

"The whole number of papers printed for Parliament, and laid on the table in 1864, was 369.
Yet there was not, out of these, one single paper about the Reciprocity Treaty.

"The whole number of papers printed for Parliament, and laid likewise upon the table in 1865,
was 170, but not a line appears about the Reciprocity Treaty. So much for the attention of
the people we pay to watch over our affairs.

"The question, as regards our relations with the States, Was a great opportunity lost? arises.
Let us see. 1st, the Chamber of Commerce of New York, and its 1,300,000 people, ask for a treaty
in 1861; 2nd, Congress asks for it by appointing a committee in 1861; 3rd, the committee ask
for it by their report of 1862 and by their resolutions of 1864; 4th, Mr. Seward endorses it
even so late as November, 1864; and 5th, the Convention at Detroit ask for it so late as the
14th July, 1865. In further testimony, a member of Congress said, on the 14th March, 1866,
on the debate on the abortive Bill for regulating trade with British North American Provinces:--

"Mr. Brooks, 'Dem. N. Y.,' said, 'that he would not have risen to obtrude any remarks on the
committee on a subject that had been discussed with an ability and ingenuity reminding him,
of ancient times in the House, and demonstrating that upon subjects which interest our own
race there is as much ability here as of old, if he had not voted last year, with others, for
an abrogation of the Reciprocity Treaty, and if he did not see now, from the tendencies and
sympathies of the House, that the moment the Bill passed from the hands of the committee of
the whole it would receive its final death blow. He did not believe there would have been thirty
votes obtained in this House last year for the abrogation of the Reciprocity Treaty with Canada,
but for the explicit understanding that some sort of reciprocity in trade would be forthwith
re-established, either through the treaty-making power, or through the legislative power of
the Government. The people of the United States were ground down by the internal revenue taxation,
and he had not felt at liberty to let the Reciprocity Treaty stand, without being at liberty
to make some sort of bargain with the people of Canada, that whatever our internal revenues
might be, the same would be levied, either by them or by us, on our imports from them. It was
exclusively on that understanding that he had voted for the abrogation of the treaty. And he
now saw in the additional claims of those who represented the lumber interests, and the coal
and other interests of the country, that advantage was to be taken of the present opportunity,
and that never again were we to have reciprocity with the neighbouring Provinces. On the contrary,
we were to impose as high duties as could be imposed upon their products, higher if possible
than those now levied under the general tariff bill. If that were to be so, he never should
regret any vote that he gave in his life as he would regret his vote of last winter to abrogate
the treaty. He had given it with the understanding that it should be substantially renewed.
He spoke of the people of the Provinces as being connected with us by kindred and by blood,
and as rightfully belonging to us; and he hoped to live to see the day when the seats on this
floor and in the Senate would be occupied by representatives and senators from Canada, New
Brunswick, Nova Scotia, Prince Edward's Island, and all the other American dependencies of
Great Britain.'

"Then it will not be forgotten that the Government and Congress of the States ratified a treaty
with Great Britain, which never could before be acted on, viz., that affecting the African
slave trade, on the 7th April, 1862, and they agreed to the important additional article on
the 17th February, 1863. At these dates the Government and people of the United States were
most anxious, therefore, for friendly relations with us. But Earl Russell lost the golden opportunity.
British interests were entirely neglected.

"We must now look at the new features of difficulty which have sprung up; and first, there
is now a Congress with a Republican majority, and the majority of that majority are Protectionists:
while a considerable number are Annexationists.

"The Convention at Detroit was appealed to by the latter. Mr. Consul Potter, United States
Consul at Montreal, Canada, and Mr. O. S. Wood, Manager of the Montreal Telegraph Company,
appear in the following report of a speech of the Consul at a meeting specially convened by
him at Detroit:--

"Mr. Consul Potter, at Detroit, July 12th, 1865, said, "'I would meet the people of Canada
on the most friendly footing, but I would say to them, in making an arrangement, we must look
to our own interest as well as yours, and in looking to our interest we cannot forget that
the policy we may adopt in relation to reciprocity will have a very great influence on the
future relations of the two countries. Now, we are ready to give you in Canada the most perfect
reciprocity. We will give you complete free trade, but we ask you to come and share with us
the responsibilities of our own government. We make this proposition, but not in a spirit of
conquest, for, as I remarked before, if it were positively certain that by one day of war we
could obtain possession of the whole Provinces for ever I would say--No!--for this reason,
that after the conquest you would find a feeling of opposition to the United States and our
government on the part of the people of Canada which would prevent any harmonious working.
When they come, let them come by their own consent, let them come as brothers, and let us be
all brothers with one flag, under one destiny. The question then is, Shall we simply be content
to give the Canadians all the privileges of our markets? For the true policy is, that in getting
those privileges they should be placed on equal footing with our own citizens in relation to
our responsibilities and in relation to taxation. I believe I express the general feeling of
those who are the most friendly to the United States in Canada when I say it is not the policy
of our Government, or our policy, to continue this treaty, and I believe that in two years
from the abrogation of the Reciprocity Treaty, the people of Canada themselves will apply for
admission to the United States. I repeat that I believe in two years they would ask for admission.
I have a letter which I received on the evening of my departure for Detroit, and I may say
I came here, with the consent of my own Government, to express my views on reciprocity. This
letter is from a gentleman in Montreal, than whom none stands higher--a gentleman of intelligence
and wealth, and whose judgment is as good as that of any person in Canada on these matters:--

                              "'MONTREAL,
                                "'July 10th.

'"MY DEAR. MR. POTTER,

"'I am much delighted to hear that you have decided to attend the Detroit Convention, as it
is in my opinion of the greatest importance that the real friends of the United States who
reside here shall be represented at Detroit, or that our friends, before committing themselves
to a renewal of the Reciprocity Treaty, may know our views on the subject; and I can assure
you, from the knowledge I have of the sentiments of those who have been and still are the friends
of the United States in this country, that not one in fifty of them wants a renewal or extension
of the treaty. On the other hand, every man who has been openly hostile to us is for the renewal.
The reasons are obvious, as it is clear to all intelligent men that a failure to renew the
treaty will result in thorough reciprocity. All the friends of the Western States here, and
they are rapidly increasing in numbers and influence, would rejoice to submit to temporary
inconvenience and loss, for the purpose of accomplishing this result, while those who are against
us wish for a renewal of the treaty which, during the last four years, has given so much trouble
to both sides. They know that a renewal of the treaty would be the only effectual check on
the annexation movement. I believe the renewal of it would be one of the greatest political
blunders on the part of the United States. This is the feeling of our friends on this side,
and I am sure our friends on the other side of the frontier who have already suffered so much,
will join us heartily in this additional sacrifice, if such it should prove.'

"As Mr. Potter closed reading the letter there were loud cries from the Canadian delegates
of 'Name, name.'

"Mr. Potter gave the name, 'O. S. Wood, Superintendent of the Montreal Telegraph Company'--a
gentleman, he said, of wealth and the highest respectability in Montreal.

"Some one asked whether Wood was a born Canadian.

"Mr. Potter replied he was not, but came originally from New York.

"The Republican journals in the West have since taken up this tone, and Mr. Morrill, the Protectionist
chairman of the 'Committee of Ways and Means,' echoed it even in conference with the provincial
delegates at Washington last February:--Witness the following:--

"'Chicago Tribune' (Republican), Jan. 6th, 1866.

"The 'Tribune' concludes:--'The Canadians will soon discover that free trade and smuggling
will not compensate them for the loss of the Reciprocity Treaty. They will stay out in the
cold for a few years and try all sorts of expedients, but in the end will be constrained to
knock for admission into the Great Republic. Potter was right when he predicted that the abrogation
of the treaty would cause annexation.'

"(Mr. MORRILL, Chairman of Ways and Means, "Washington, Feb. 6th, 1866.)

"'Mr. GALT: We would not build those canals for our own trade alone. I think, indeed, it might
well be considered whether it would not suit both parties to put this trade on a better footing.
I am not authorized to make any proposition looking to this end, but my idea is that these
waters might be neutralized with advantage to both.

"'Mr. MORRILL: That will have to be postponed until you, gentlemen, assume your seats here.'

"Mr. Derby coolly discusses the question as to whether concession or coercion will best succeed
in inducing the British Provinces to 'come over,' and his recipe for all outstanding grievances
is the following. He says, in his report of January 1st, 1866:--

"'And if as an inducement for this treaty and in settlement of Alabama claims we can obtain
a cession of Vancouver's Island, or other territory, it will be a consummation most devoutly
to be wished for.'

"Would our Government 'devoutly wish' such a consummation?

"Mr. O. S. Wood had to resign his position as manager of the Montreal Telegraph Company: that
was done by public opinion in Canada. But Mr. Potter, who attends a meeting to enforce the
annexation of a part of the Queen's dominions, by the consent of the Washington Government,
is still Consul at Montreal.

"But what are these dominions which Mr. Potter would annex? Read what Mr. Ward's Report of
1862 says:--

"'The great and practical value of the British North American Provinces and possessions is
seldom appreciated. Stretching from the Atlantic to the Pacific Oceans, they contain an area
of at least 3,478,380 square miles--more than is owned by the United States, and not much less
than the whole of Europe, with its family of nations!

       *       *       *       *       *

"'The climate and soil of these Provinces and possessions, seemingly less indulgent than those
of tropical regions, are precisely those by which the skill, energy, and virtues of the human
race are best developed. Nature there demands thought and labour from man as conditions of
his existence, and yields abundant rewards to a wise industry.'

"Specially, as regards Canada; let us recapitulate her progress, as compared with that of her
giant neighbour, the United States.

"During the interval between the last census and the preceding one (1850-1860), the decennial
rate of increase of population in Canada exceeded that in the United States by nearly 51/2
per cent.--Canada adding 40.87 per cent. to her population in ten years, while the United States
added only 35.58 per cent. to theirs. She brought her wild land into cultivation at a rate,
in nine years, exceeding the rate of increase of cultivated lands in the United States in ten
years by nearly 6 per cent.,--Canada in 1860 having added 50 acres of cultivated land to every
100 acres under cultivation in 1851, while the United States in 1860 had only added 14 acres
to every 100 acres under cultivation in 1850. The value per cultivated acre of the farming
lands in Canada in 1860 exceeded the value per cultivated acre of the farming lands of the
United States--the average value per cultivated acre in Canada being $20.87 and in the United
States $16.32. In Canada a larger capital was invested in agricultural implements, in proportion
to the amount of land cultivated, than in the United States--the average value of agricultural
implements used on a farm having 100 cultivated acres being in Canada $182 and in the United
States $150. In proportion to population, Canada in 1860 raised twice as much wheat as the
United States--Canada in that year raising 11.2 bushels for each inhabitant, while the United
States raised only 5.50 bushels for each inhabitant. Bulking together eight leading staples
of agriculture--wheat, corn, rye, barley, oats, buckwheat, peas and bean, and potatoes,--Canada,
between 1851 and 1860, increased her production of these articles from 57 millions to 123 millions
of bushels--an increase; of 113 per cent.; while the United States in ten years, from 1850
to 1860, increased their productions of the same articles only 45 per cent. In 1860 Canada
raised, of those articles, 49.12 bushels for each inhabitant, against a production in the United
States of 43.42 bushels for each inhabitant. Excluding Indian corn from the list--Canada raised
of the remaining articles 48.07 bushels for each inhabitant, almost three times the rate of
production in the United States, which was 16.74 bushels for each inhabitant. And as regards
live stock and their products, Canada in 1850, in proportion to her population, owned more
horses and more cows, made more butter, kept more sheep, and had a greater yield of wool, than
the United States.

"Our British Government having thus allowed the treaty to expire, and having thereby damped
the energies of the colonies, and excited the hopes of the Protectionist and Annexationist
parties in the States, what are we to do?

"In the first place, Parliament should express its condemnation of the failure of the executive;
in the second, its desire for peace and fraternity with the United States; and in the third,
its determination to stand by the Queen's dominions on the other side of the Atlantic. Language
so just and so clear would lead to the inevitable result of renewed negociation. But who should
negociate? The incapable, nonchalant people who have so signally perilled the interests of
Great Britain,--or new and capable men? Or should the whole state of our relations with the
United States be remitted to a plenipotentiary?

"What ought we to seek now to secure, in the interests of peace and civilization?

"1. A neutralization of the 3,000 miles of frontier, rendering fortifications needless.

"2. A continuance of the neutrality of the lakes and rivers bordering upon the two territories.

"3. Common navigation of the lakes and the outlets of the sea.

"4. An enlargement of canals and locks, to enable the food of the west to flow unimpeded and
at the smallest cost direct in the same bottom to Europe, or any other part of the world.

"5. Neutrality of telegraphs and post routes between the Atlantic and Pacific, no matter on
which territory they may traverse.

"6. A free interchange of untaxed, and an exchange, at internal revenue duty rate only, of
taxed, commodities.

"7. The passage of goods in bond through the respective territories as heretofore.

"8. A common use of ports on both sides of the Continent."

It seems to me, now, in 1887, that this paper sums up a question of the past, now re-appearing
in full prominence. It also sums up what ought to be done if civilization and friendship between
English-speaking nations still exist.

And it is further agreed that, in order to prevent or settle any disputes as to the places
to which the reservation of exclusive right to British fishermen contained in this article,
and that of fishermen of the United States contained in the next succeeding article, apply,
each of the high contracting parties, on the application of either to the other, shall, within
six months thereafter, appoint a commissioner.

The commissioners shall name some third person to act as an arbitrator or umpire in any case
or cases on which they may themselves differ in opinion. If they should not be able to agree
upon the name of such third person, they shall each name a person, and it shall be determined
by lot which of the two persons so named shall be the arbitrator or umpire in cases of difference
or disagreement between the commissioners. The person so to be chosen to be arbitrator or umpire
shall, before proceeding to act as such in any case, make and subscribe to a solemn declaration
in a form similar to that which shall already have been made and subscribed by the commissioners,
which shall be entered on the record of their proceedings. In the event of the death, absence,
or incapacity of either of the commissioners, or of the arbitrator or umpire, or of their or
his omitting, declining, or ceasing to act as such commissioner, arbitrator, or umpire, another
and different person shall be appointed or named as aforesaid to act as such commissioner,
arbitrator, or umpire in the place and stead of the person so originally appointed or named
as aforesaid, and shall make and subscribe such declaration as aforesaid.

Such commissioners shall proceed to examine the coasts of the North American Provinces and
of the United States embraced within the provisions of the first and second articles of this
treaty, and shall designate the places reserved by the said articles from the common right
of fishing therein.

The decision of the commissioners and of the arbitrator or umpire shall be given in writing
in each case, and shall be signed by them respectively.

The high contracting parties hereby solemnly engage to consider the decision of the commissioners
conjointly, or of the arbitrator or umpire, as the case may be, as absolutely final and conclusive
in each case decided upon by them or him respectively.

ART. 2.

ART. 3. It is agreed that the articles enumerated in the schedule hereunto annexed, being the
growth and produce of the aforesaid British Colonies or of the United States, shall be admitted
into each, country respectively free of duty:--

SCHEDULE. Dye-stuffs. Flax, hemp, and tow, unmanufactured. Unmanufactured tobacco. Rags.

ART. 4. It is agreed that the citizens and inhabitants of the United States shall have the
right to navigate the river St. Lawrence, and the canals in Canada, used as the means of communicating
between the great lakes and the Atlantic Ocean, with their vessels, boats, and crafts, as fully
and freely as the subjects of Her Britannic Majesty, subject only to the same tolls and other
assessments as now are or may hereafter be exacted of Her Majesty's said subjects; it being
understood, however, that the British Government retains the right of suspending this privilege
on giving due notice thereof to the Government of the United States.

It is further agreed that, if at any time the British Government should exercise the said reserved
right, the Government of the United States shall have the right of suspending, if it think
fit, the operation of article three of the present treaty, in so far as the Province of Canada
is affected thereby, for so long as the suspension of the free navigation of the river St.
Lawrence or the canals may continue.

It is further agreed that British subjects shall have the right freely to navigate Lake Michigan
with their vessels, boats, and crafts, so long as the privilege of navigating the river St.
Lawrence, secured to American citizens by the above clause of the present article, shall continue;
and the Government of the United States further engages to urge upon the State Governments
to secure to the subjects of Her Britannic Majesty the use of the several State canals on terms
of equality with the inhabitants of the United States.

And it is further agreed that no export duty or other duty shall be levied on lumber or timber
of any kind cut on that portion of the American territory in the State of Maine watered by
the river St. John and its tributaries, and floated down that river to the sea, when the same
is shipped to the United States from the Province of New Brunswick.

ART. 5.

ART. 6. And it is further hereby agreed that the provisions and stipulations of the foregoing
articles shall extend to the Island of Newfoundland, so far as they are applicable to that colony.

ART. 7.

Done in triplicate at Washington, the fifth day of June, anno Domini one thousand eight hundred
and fifty-four.

                      W. L. MARCY.                  [L.S.]
                      ELGIN AND KINCARDINE.         [L.S.]]

[Endnote 2:]

Act cap. 71 [Dunlop's Laws of the United States, Federal], passed March 3rd, 1845, page 1075.

"SEC. 7.

NOTE--Several other ports have since been proclaimed, viz., Whitehall, Lewiston, and others.

"SEC. 11. That the Secretary of the Treasury is hereby further authorized to prescribe such
rules and regulations, not inconsistent with the laws of the United States, as he may deem
necessary to carry into effect the provisions of this Act, and to prevent the illegal re- importation
of any goods, wares, or merchandize which shall have been exported as herein provided; and
that all Acts or parts of Acts inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, be, and the same
are hereby repealed."

See, also, Warehousing Act of United States Congress, chapter 48, Dunlop's United States Statutes,
page 1106, passed 6th August, 1846, in which it is enacted as follows:--

"And in case the owner, importer, consignee or agent of any goods on which the duties have
not been paid shall give to the collector satisfactory security that the said goods shall be
landed out of the jurisdiction of the United States in the manner now required by existing
laws relating to exportations, for the benefit of drawback, the collector, &c., on an entry
to re-export the same shall, upon payment of the appropriate expenses, permit the said goods,
under the inspection of the proper officers, to be shipped without the payment of any duties
thereon," &c.

CHAPTER XIX.

The Defences of Canada.

In February and March, 1865, I spoke in the House of Commons on the general question of the
defences of Canada; and, also, on the special vote (carried by a majority of 235) of 50,000l.
for the fortifications of Quebec. The first of these speeches was delivered on the 13th March,
1865; the second on the 23rd March. On the second occasion I was followed by Lord Palmerston;
and I commend his speech, pithy and decisive as it was, to the statesmen who have to deal with
our Imperial relations with Canada, and with her Canadian Pacific Railway.

"Hansard" reports that,--

"Mr. WATKIN said that having, like the right hon. gentleman the member for Calne, visited Canada
not once but frequently, he felt unable to corroborate the description given of Quebec; nor
could he agree as to what had been said of other places. The fortifications of Quebec were
not those of the days of Wolfe; they had been systematically enlarged and strengthened. Quebec,
naturally a position of enormous strength, was now most efficiently fortified, and so far from
the nature of the surrounding country exposing it to attack, that country presented features
enabling the speedy and easy construction of additional works rendering the fortress impregnable.
In fact, it might easily be made the strongest work upon the continent. Nor was it fair to
say, as the gallant member opposite had declared, that the guns were all antiquated and the
gun-carriages rotten. It was true that many of the guns were old, but newer ordnance had been
supplied; there were abundant stores of shot, shell, and rockets, and a considerable number
of Armstrong guns had been received at the citadel very recently. Canada could be made capable
of defence, without difficulty, though, of course, not without cost. No one would contend that
the defence of Canada, if an Imperial duty, was simply an Imperial liability. Every one would
admit that the colony should contribute, both in times of peace and of war, its fair share
of the burden. Independence and defence were co-existent ideas, and Canada, desiring to be
free of foreign control, should, and he hoped would, be ready to defray her just and honest
share of the burden. He took this as admitted on all hands and on both sides of the Atlantic.
His objection, then, to the proposal of the Government was that it was not worthy of that emergency
which alone could justify the policy of the fortification of a frontier. But the question really
before the House was not one of the extent of territory to defend, but plainly this--Was this
House, was the country, ready to abandon--to alienate for ever from the British Crown--the
vast expanse of territory lying between the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans? There was no half-way
house between 'cutting the painter,' as one or two hon. gentlemen near him now and then suggested,
in conversation only, as regarded Canada, and severing all connection, now and for ever, with
Prince Edward's Island, Newfoundland, Nova Scotia, New Brunswick, and Canada, on the east;
British Columbia, one of the most thriving and hopeful of the British possessions, on the west;
and that vast intermediate country known as the 'Hudson's Bay Territory,' which they were told
contained within itself fertile land enough to sustain 50,000,000 of people--and holding on
to the Queen's possessions. Hon. gentlemen near him should remember their geography a little,
and they would cease to speak of Canada as more than a section of that northern continent over
which the Queen of Great Britain ruled, and which comprised an area larger than that of the
Federal and Confederate States put together. Now what was that great property? He could not
describe it better than in the language of the United States. If the House would refer to the
report on the Reciprocity Treaty laid before the House of Representatives at Washington in
1862 by Mr. Ward, they would find a glowing description of the vast extent, the wonderful means
of internal navigation, the richness of mineral resources, the bracing healthiness of climate,
and the immense extent of fertile soil which British North America contained. Now, knowing
something of America, he must express his belief that there was no very imminent danger of
war with the United States. The issues of peace and war, however, depended upon the attitude
of that House and of the country. Weakness never promoted peace, and an uncertain and half-
hearted attitude was provocative of war. This country had, he believed, the desire to preserve
its power and influence on the American continent. It was for the good of mankind that the
rule of the British Crown and the influence of the wisely-regulated liberty of Britain and
of the British Constitution should continue. The way to prevent war was not to talk of severing
the connection with Canada or of withdrawing our troops from Canada for fear they should be
caught in a net, but to announce boldly but calmly, in language worthy of the traditions of
that House, that these vast American possessions are integral parts of the great British Empire,
and come weal, come woe, would be defended to the last. If that language were held there would
be no war in America. The only danger arose from impressions produced by speeches in that House
and elsewhere, leading to the belief that we were indifferent to our duties or our interests
on the American Continent; for we had duties as well as interests. Those who thus spoke--humanitarians
by profession--could support the continuance of a war which, in his humble opinion, disgraced
the civilization of our time; and, while professing to be Liberals, they were ready to thrust
out from our Imperial home of liberty the populations of some of our most important possessions
to satisfy some imaginary economical theory of saving. They spoke of the Empire as if it were
this mere island, and they seemed enchanted with the idea of narrowing our boundaries everywhere.
That was not a question of simple arithmetic, it was a question of empire; not a question of
a single budget, but a question of the future destiny of our race. These gentlemen seemed to
prefer to live in a small country. For his part, he hoped he should all his life live in a
great one. No country could be stationary without becoming stagnant, or restrict its natural
progress without inviting its decay. It was so in all human affairs; it was so even in ordinary
business. Every man of business knew that if his enterprise ceased to grow bigger, it soon
began to dwindle down; and so a country must grow greater or else must slide away to weakness,
until at last it would be despised. Now the Government proposed to spend 50,000l. at Quebec;
50,000l., he repeated, was really nothing if it were necessary to carry out the fortification
policy at all. He had two objections to make. One was, that Quebec was not the vulnerable point;
that point was Montreal. Montreal was the key to Canada. Once holding that key, the enemy would
cut Canada in two--would separate Upper and Lower Canada from each other. Yet the Government
proposed to leave all that to the unaided resources of Canada--to do nothing, in fact, where,
if action were necessary at all, that action was pressing and imperative. He should deplore
to see this country commencing and carrying on a competition of expenditure on fortifications
with the United States. The results must be, as he warned the House, excessive votes of money,
of which this one was only the small beginning, and an entire change in the nature of those
relations which had so happily subsisted between the United States and the British North American
possessions. Let the House remember the case of France. England and France had for years been
running a race of competition of this kind. If France raised a new regiment, or added a new
ship of war, or built an ironclad, or erected a fortress, we must do the same. And thus it
had been that the forces still remained on a measure of some sort of equality, notwithstanding
a vast outlay, which had crippled the resources of both countries, and here at home had delayed
fiscal reform and retarded, nay even prevented, the most obvious measures for the elevation
and education of our people. Were we to play the same game over again with the States? Now,
as regards the great lakes and water ways of America, possessing a coast line of above 3,000
miles, we had since 1817 neutralized these waters as regards armaments. Under that truly blessed
arrangement, the sound of a hostile shot, or even of a shot fired for practice, had never been
heard now for nearly half a century. Here was a precedent of happy history and worthy of all
gratitude and of all imitation. Now, if they were to fortify, let it be done adequately, whatever
the cost. That cost would, he repeated, be great and also uncertain. Now he would venture to
make a suggestion to the Government. It was to try negociation. Place before the minds of American
statesmen the neutralization of the lakes and ask if the frontiers could not be neutralized
also. Was it not possible that if Her Majesty's Government took Brother Jonathan in a quiet
mood, he might be disposed to save his own pocket and thereby to save ours, and unite with
us to set a bright example to surrounding nations? The people of the United States had their
faults and we had ours; but they were distinguished by their common sense. No people had more
of it. This suggestion would, he thought, come home to it; for they would argue, if we lay
out millions so will the British, and, after all, it is merely adding burdens to both and not
really strength or dignity to either. Let the Government try. If they failed the trial would
have shown them to be just and in the right. If they succeeded how happy would it be for us.
Reference had been made by the right hon. gentleman to the fortifications at New York, Boston,
and Portland; but no one had mentioned a very strong work within forty miles of Montreal itself.
He had seen that work. It was called 'Fort Montgomery,' and there was a railway all the way
from it to Montreal. It was now very strong. He believed it had embrasures for some 200 guns.
All the time this war had been going on, this work had been going on also. Now this looked
like menace. Our Government had been informed about it, but he failed to find that they had
made any representation to Washington. Surely they might have said, and would have been justified
in saying to a friendly nation--'If you must have 200 guns 40 miles from Montreal, we must
have 250 at Montreal; and whatever you do, we must imitate--therefore, why should either of
us lay out our money?' But Government had done nothing; and now, before attempting any negociation,
they asked the House to agree to make fortifications. He had humbly offered a suggestion to
the Government. Let them take one of two decided courses. Let them deal firmly and wisely with
the question. Let them state, in no spirit of offence, to the United States that, as Canada
was part of the British Empire, we would defend it at all cost; or let them endeavour to induce
the Government of Washington to distinguish itself for ever by adopting the alternative--the
neutralization of the lakes and the avoidance of hostile fortifications on both sides of the
frontier."

The second speech is reported as follows:

"Mr. WATKIN, member for Stockport, said, that he felt concerned to hear the United States so
often spoken of in the debate as 'the enemy;' and if he thought that the vote before the committee
would in any manner increase international irritation, he should regret his vote in favour
of the proposition of the Government. As it was, he felt that he could not quite agree with
the policy the vote indicated. That policy was one of armament against an enemy. The proposition,
in his opinion, went either too far or not far enough. It did not go far enough to inspire
undoubted confidence and to deter attack by providing for absolute defence; and still it went
far enough to raise suspicion and to excite or to aggravate a frontier feeling. But he thought
that our actual relations with the United States were guiding considerations in reference to
the policy of this vote. Government ought, therefore, to tell the House how far they could
repeat the peaceful assurances of a former debate. Did the despatches by the mail just arrived
tend towards peace or misunderstanding? Was it true, on one side, that formal notice had a
few days ago been given to our Government by the United States to terminate the Reciprocity
Treaty? and was it true that that notice had been entirely unaccompanied by any overture or
suggestion for a re- discussion of the question? On the other and more friendly side, was it
true that the vexatious passport system had been abrogated? and, above all, was it also true
that the Government of Washington had expressed to Her Majesty's Government their intention
to revoke the notice to terminate the arrangement of 1817, and to place gunboats on the great
American lakes? If this was true, and if it should also appear that the notice to put an end
to the Reciprocity Treaty had either not yet been given or had been accompanied by some friendly
declaration of a desire to negociate anew, the House must receive the intelligence with satisfaction;
but should it, unfortunately, be the fact that non- intercourse regulations were maintained,
that the lakes were to be covered by armaments, and that international trade was to be interfered
with, then he thought the House would consider the question as one affecting a hostile neighbour,
whose unfriendly designs had to be met by preparation. He hoped, therefore, that the right
hon. gentleman would give the House all the information at his command. Had he been in possession
of all the facts, he should have been disposed to move as an amendment that it was inexpedient
to consider a vote of money for the construction of fortifications adjoining the United States
frontier until negociations had been undertaken and had failed, with a view to the suspension
of such works under treaty obligation. He was strongly in favour of negociation. There was
an example and precedent in the arrangement of 1817 for the neutralization of the lakes. That
peaceful compact had endured for fifty years, and had alike saved the expense and obviated
the dangers attending rival navies on the great internal waters of America. It was self-evident
that we must either fortify efficiently or let it alone. The United States could not fail to
see that if they laid out large sums on permanent works of defence, we must do the same; while
if we voted money, they must follow us. And thus while both countries made themselves poorer
in the process, neither became much stronger, because a sort of equilibrium of forces would
after all be maintained. The Government at Washington surely had no present desire to enter
upon a race of expenditure for military works on both sides of the frontier. If they had, the
sooner we knew it the better, for then the House would only have one course, however they might
deplore it, to pursue. But here was a case where the common sense of the American people could,
he thought, be appealed to not in vain. Instead of fortifying, let us neutralize the frontier--let
us agree to do away with the expenditure. [Mr. BRIGHT: On both sides the frontier?] Yes, on
both sides. If the American people were appealed to as the hon. member for Rochdale appealed
to the Emperor of the French in favour of the French treaty, he believed that similar earnestness
and tact could bring about an arrangement. The Government at Washington would thereby set an
example to all countries having long frontier lines, and a precedent would be established of
inestimable value to the world. What could be more deplorable than to substitute for neutrality
and the operation of the Reciprocity Treaty an armed frontier and practical non-intercourse?
He had before stated, from much personal observation on the spot, that border feeling and jealousy
had hardly an existence as between the people of our possessions, and of the United States;
but so soon as rival fortresses, frowned at each other on both sides of the line, and an armed
truce were, so to speak, established, all the feelings and prejudices of separate nationality
would grow up in abundance. The free exchanges of industry would, perhaps, be at the same time
arrested, and war itself might not be impossible. The Reciprocity Treaty practically made the
people of the United States and of the British North American possessions, each living under
a totally different form of government, one for all purposes of trade and intercourse. Why
should they be separated? But unfortunately our Government did not appreciate the value of,
or they did not appear disposed to undertake, negociations. Instead of endeavouring to come
to some friendly understanding first, they came down to the House and asked for a vote of money,
enough to change the aspect of discussion with the United States, but not enough to effectually
protect from danger. They would spend money first, he supposed, and then negotiate; they would
allow some great evil to happen, and remonstrate afterwards. The difficulties in Canada might
have been avoided by previous precaution. The threatened notice to put an end to the treaty,
which grew out of those difficulties, might have been avoided by a renewal of the engagement
two years ago. But the Government had done nothing. They had been--how many months?--without
a Minister at Washington at the most critical period of our relations with the United States.
Now it was proposed to send out a gentleman of many attainments, but who certainly was not
of the first order of diplomatists. Was he gone? [Mr. BRIGHT: They say he goes to-morrow.]
His hon. friend the member for Birmingham said he was to leave to-morrow. Hitherto all the
interests of this country had been left in the hands of Mr. Burnley, who, if only from his
position, was not able to meet on equal terms the able men of whom Mr. Lincoln's Cabinet was
composed. Ever since the 17th December a vexatious system of passports and consular regulations
as to merchandize had been in force. These regulations were probably in force now. They had
seriously impeded trade, produced uncertainty and alarm, and great losses to individuals. They
had also created great exasperation; yet during all this time we had no ambassador at Washington.
Since he entered the House, a letter, by the mail just in, had been placed in his hands, and
he would, with the permission of the House, read an extract from it. The writer, under date
Portland, March 11th, says:--'Some eighteen passengers, per "Belgian," arrived here without
passports for Canada. The United States Government, by order of General Dix, has detained them,
and sent a squad of soldiers to guard them on board the "Belgian." At this time of writing
they are still in custody, one of them being a clergyman. Only fancy, United States soldiers
taking charge of an English ship and English subjects! This is carrying the matter with a high
hand.' Now, he did not believe that the Government of the United States had purposely and of
malice aforethought committed this outrage, nor did he speak of it to increase irritation;
but did it not show how wrong the Government had been in leaving the interests of this country
so long without representation? What, in fact, was the use of an embassy at all if our ambassador
was not at his post? The Embassy at Washington was now the most important of our diplomatic
establishments abroad. We ought to place there the ablest man we could find, regardless of
all party or personal considerations. The people of the United States knew our own estimate
of our own officials well, and they took it as a slight if we did not send to Washington a
man of the first rank as a diplomatist. He would appeal to the noble lord at the head of the
Government to consider the suggestion he had ventured to make, and not to allow the country
to embark, without any attempt at negociation, in an expenditure of which this was but the
first beginning if the policy of it should be forced upon the House. Our fellow-subjects in
Canada ought to be assured that, if an unjust war broke out, this country would stand by them
at all hazards; but that assurance was quite consistent with the attempt which, he hoped, would
be made after all, to neutralize the frontier and the lakes and to re-establish the Reciprocity
Treaty. The House would, he felt assured, do nothing to raise up bitter feelings between the
British Provinces and the United States, nor to alienate still further two peoples of common
origin, who, for the sake of civilization itself, ought, as far as possible, to be one and
united in the interests of commerce and of peace."

"Lord PALMERSTON: Sir, this is not a Canadian question, it is not a local question, it is an
Imperial question. It is a question which affects the position and character, the honour, the
interests, and the duties of this great country; and I hold it to be of the utmost importance
to the character of the nation in a case like this, and when the great majority of the House
seem to be of the same opinion, that it should not go forth to the world that there has been
a difference of opinion on this motion; but that it should be seen to have been accepted by
a unanimous House of Commons. Sir, there are one or two points with regard to which I think
it right to express my dissent from some doctrines which have been laid down. Many gentlemen
have argued this question as if there was a general impression and belief that war with the
United States was imminent, and that this proposal of ours was for the purpose of meeting a
sudden danger which we apprehended to be hanging over us. Now, I think there is no danger of
war with America. Nothing that has recently passed indicates any hostile disposition on the
part of the United States towards us; and, therefore, I do not base this motion on the ground
that we expect war to take place between this country and America. But is it necessary that
when you propose to put a country in a state of defence you should show that war with some
powerful neighbour is imminent and likely soon to take place? Why, the whole practice of mankind
is founded on an entirely different assumption. Every country which is able to do so fortifies
its frontier if its neighbour is a powerful state, which might, if it thought fit, attack it.
But it is said that you cannot defend Canada. Now, I utterly deny that proposition. I think
that is assuming a conclusion which no man is entitled to assume. Does the example even of
the war now going on tend to justify that conclusion? The territory of the Confederates is
vast and extensive; have they attempted to defend every portion of that territory? They have
fortified certain important points, and those important points, although the rest of the country
may have been overrun, have resisted attack--some of them even to this day and others for three
or four years of the contest. Look at Richmond; is Richmond taken? Has not Richmond been attacked
for a great length of time? And what are its defences? Why, chiefly earthworks, with a force
behind them; and, though that force is inferior in numbers to the force which threatens it,
it has hitherto remained in Confederate hands. The mere occupation of territory by an army
that traverses through it without reducing its fortresses is no conquest. The conquest is limited
to the ground that the invading army occupies, and when that army passes to another part of
the country its conquest passes away with it. But all countries fortify particular points,
and when those points are secure they trust that the general bulk of the territory is safe
from any permanent occupation or conquest by any enemy who may attack it. It is urged that
Canada has an extended frontier; but are no other States similarly placed in that respect?
What country has the largest frontier? What is the extent of our own frontier? Why, the whole
coast of the United Kingdom; and we might as well say that it would be necessary for the security
of this country that we should line our whole coast with defensive works because we may be
attacked at any point of that great and extensive frontier. I maintain, therefore, that there
is nothing that has passed--nothing that is now passing--between the Government of the United
States and our Government which justifies any man in saying that the relations between the
two countries are likely, as far as present circumstances go, to assume a character of hostility
leading to war. But, then, the hon. member for Birmingham says that any danger which might
threaten Canada and our North American Provinces must arise from political disputes between
England and the United States. And, therefore, the hon. gentleman says the Canadians will find
that their best security is, not in fortifications or in British support, but in separating
themselves from Great Britain. Now, in the first place, that happens not to be the wish or
inclination of the Canadians. The Canadians are most anxious to maintain the connection with
this country. They are proud of that connection; they think it for their interest; they are
willing to make every exertion that their population and resources enable them to achieve,
and, in conjunction with the efforts of this country, to preserve that connection, and prevent
themselves from being absorbed by a neighbouring power. Is it not, therefore, alike the duty
and interest of this country, for the sake of that reputation which is the power and strength
of a nation, when we find the Canadas and our other Provinces desirous of maintaining the connection,
to do that which we may have the means of doing in assisting them to maintain that connection
and remain united with Great Britain? But, sir, is it true that the only danger which a smaller
colonial state runs from a more powerful and larger neighbour arises from quarrels that may
exist between the Mother Country and the foreign state? I say that is a total fallacy. Suppose
these provinces separated from this country--suppose them erected into a monarchy, a republic,
or any other form, of Government, are there not motives that might lead a stronger neighbour
to pick a quarrel with that smaller state with a view to its annexation? Is there nothing like
territorial ambition pervading the policy of great military states? The example of the world
should teach us that as far as the danger of invasion and annexation is concerned, that danger
would be increased to Canada by a separation from Great Britain, and when she is deprived of
the protection that the military power and resources of this country may afford. If these American
Provinces should desire to separate, we should not adopt the maxim that fell unconsciously
from the hon. member for Birmingham, who maintained that the North was right in suppressing
the rebellion of the South; we will not adopt his maxim, and think that we have a right to
suppress the rebellion of the North American Provinces. We should take a different line, no
doubt, and if these Provinces felt themselves strong enough to stand upon their own ground,
and if they should desire no longer to maintain their connection with us, we should say, 'God
speed you and give you the means to maintain yourselves as a nation!' That has not happened;
but, on the contrary, they much dislike the notion of annexation to their neighbours and cling
to their connection with this country. And I say that it will be disgraceful to this country--it
would lower us in the eyes of the world--it would weaken our power and leave consequences injurious
to our position in the world if, while they desire to maintain their connection with us, we
did not do what we could to assist them in maintaining their position. I think that the Government
are perfectly right in proposing this vote to the House. We are of opinion that all those examples
which my right hon. friend behind me (Mr. Lowe) has adduced are not applicable. We all know
that in winter the snow is so deep in Canada that if an army should march it could only be
in one beaten track, and that it would be impossible to carry on siege operations in winter.
We know that warlike operations must be limited to the summer months, and we think that we
can, by the fortifications now proposed--some to be made by the Canadians and some by this
country--put Canada into such a state of defence that, with the exertions of her own population,
and assisted by the military force of this country, she will be able to defend herself from
attack. My right hon. friend the member for Calne argued in a manner somewhat inconsistent
with himself, for what did he say? He says that you cannot defend Canada because the United
States can bring a military force into the field much superior to that which you can oppose
to them. Yet the right hon. gentleman says we ought to defend Canada. You ought not to relinquish
the connection, he says, but you should defend Canada elsewhere. Where? Why, as you are not
able to cope with the United States in Canada, where you have a large army, and where you can
join your forces to those of the Canadians, you should send an expedition and attack the people
of the United States in their own homes and in the centre of their own resources, where they
can bring a larger force to repel our invasion. If we are unable to defend Canada, we shall
not have much better prospects of success if we land an army to attack New York or any other
important city."

CHAPTER XX.

Intended Route for a Pacific Railway in 1863. A large part of this route has been completed.
For instance, an "Intercolonial" Railway-- constructed so as to serve many local, but no grand
through, purposes; constructed to satisfy local interests, or, probably, local political needs--has
been built. The Grand Trunk extension from Detroit to Chicago, an excellent Railway, has been
completed, thanks to the indomitable efforts of Mr. Hickson, the Managing Director of the Grand
Trunk. A line from St. Paul to Winnipeg has also been opened; but the route of the line from
Winnipeg to the Pacific has been deviated from, and, to save distance, the Kicking Horse and
Beaver River Passes have been chosen. I think needless cost has been incurred, and that future
maintenance will be greater than it need have been.

The British Columbian Railway has been constructed from Fort Moody to Kamloops, and is now
part of the Canadian Pacific.

It seemed to me, at that time, that the route of the Ottawa Valley, Lake Nipissing, and round
by the head of Lake Superior, was a great project of the future; and that to accomplish so
great a work, in such a country, the policy was to utilize existing outlays of capital, filling
in vacant spaces rather than duplicating what we had got.

It seemed to me, also, that the use of existing railways in the United States was not only
economical, but politic: and I knew that, at that time, the Government of the North would have
made every reasonable advance to meet England in affairs of mutual interest. There was every
desire, at that juncture, to work cordially with our Queen and her people. For example, the
passing of the Slave Trade Bill, modelled on English legislation, in, I think, 1863, through
both Houses of Congress at Washington, with hardly a hostile expression. Apropos of this Bill,
Mr. Charles Sumner told me, in 1865, at his house at Boston, the following story. "The Bill
for putting down the slave trade in association with England and the other anti-slave trade
countries passed so quickly as to astonish its friends. Charles Sumner, on the final question
being put, 'that the Bill do pass'--as we should put it at home--immediately ran across to
Mr. Seward, opened the door of Mr. Seward's private office, without knocking, and found Mr.
Seward asleep. He awoke him by calling out, 'Seward, Seward, the Bill is passed: the Bill is
passed.' Seward gradually opened his eyes, stared under his bushy eyebrows, and said, 'Then
what in ---- has become of the "great democratic party?"'"

Again, it was the fault of our own Government at home that the Reciprocity Treaty, nearly expiring,
was not renewed. Our Government did nothing. It was the "masterly inactivity" of Lord Granville,
and other Whigs, which has done so much harm to the prestige and power of our Empire. Opportunities
are everything--they are the statesman's chances. In this case the chance was lost. However,
I had every reason to believe that Mr. Seward would have been willing to agree to the use of
United States lines up to St. Paul (which he once predicted would become the centre, or "hub,"
of the United States) and through Minnesota to the boundary of the Hudson's Bay territory,--under
a treaty of international neutralization. There were, it is true, difficulties at home. The
authorities, at home, did not know what was to be the end of the Civil War. They did not know
the country to be passed through. They doubted if there was any precedent. I quoted the treaty,
of years before, between England, the United States, and other countries, for the neutralization
of a railway, if made, across Honduras, and other analogous cases. But I failed to bring about
any official action at that time. I think, in looking back for twenty-three years, I have nothing
to modify as respects this. Had my proposals been carried out millions sterling would have
been saved; throughout railway communication to the Pacific might have been secured fifteen
years sooner; and a friendly agreement with the United States for a great common object would,
no doubt, have led to many more equally friendly agreements.

As respects neutralization, I, unconsciously, put a spoke into my own wheel, and I was not
aware of it until I had a conversation with Mr. Bright a good while afterwards. Had I known
of the grievance at the time I would have gone right off to Washington and explained all about
it. The facts were these:--

I was at Quebec in July, 1863. At that time, and previously, and after, there was a tall, long-legged,
short-bodied, sallow-faced, sunken-eyed man, whose name, if he had reported it correctly, was
Ogden. He was called "consul" for the United States at Quebec. He reported, I was told, direct
to Mr. Seward at Washington. He was, in fact, the sort of diplomatist whose duties, as he apprehended
them, were those of a spy. He was a person disagreeable to look at, as in his odd-coloured
trousers, short waistcoat, and dark green dress-coat, with brass buttons, he went elbowing
about amongst the ladies and gentlemen promenading the public walk, which commands so beautiful
a view over the St. Lawrence, called the "Platform." Phrenology would have condemned him. Phrenology
and Physiognomy combined, would have hung him, on the certain verdict of any intelligent jury.

One day, as I was preparing to go West, a deputation from the "Stadacona" Club of Quebec, of
which I was a member, asked me to take the chair at a private dinner proposed to be given at
the club to Mr. Vallandigham, the democratic leader of Ohio, who had come across country from
Halifax, on his way homeward--through, free, Canada--after his seizure in bed, in Ohio, and
deportation across the Northern frontier into the land of secession. It appeared that Mr. Vallandigham,
not being a secessionist, merely desiring an honourable peace between North and South, which
he had ably advocated, had gone on to Nassau, thence to Halifax, thence to Quebec: where he was.

I at first declined the honour. But I was much pressed. I was told that leading citizens of
Quebec and members of the late Canadian Government would attend. That the dinner was merely
hospitality to a refugee landed upon our shores in distress; and that my presidency would take
away any suspicion that there was the slightest arriere-pensee in the matter. I concurred.
The dinner took place. Not a word was said of the great pending contest, unless some words
of Mr. Vallandigham, apologizing for the poverty of his dress, might be so construed. He said:
"Mr. Chairman, I must apologize for my costume. I can only explain that I am standing in the
clothes I was allowed to put on, after being taken out of my own bed, in my own house, without
warning and without warrant, and I have not had the means to re-clothe myself."

The dinner was certainly about as non-political and as innocent as any such assembly could
be. Mr. Vallandigham left for Niagara the same night. I saw him into the train. He declined
a friendly loan; but he accepted a free passage to Niagara, where, later on, I spent two or
three pleasant and interesting days in his society; our little party being Governor Dallas,
of the Hudson's Bay Company, D'Arcy McGee, Dr. Mackay, who had acted as correspondent of the
"Times," Professor Hind, my son, Mr. Watkin, and myself. The "consul" had, no doubt, misrepresented
our proceedings.

Now this is the whole story. I never after this got any answers to letters to Mr. Seward; and,
as stated above, I never knew of the grievance till spoken to by Mr. Bright, who had received
a letter of complaint of me from somebody at Washington.

CHAPTER XXI.

Letters from Sir George E. Cartier--Question of Honors.

The "Act for the Union of Canada, Nova Scotia, and New Brunswick, and the government thereof,
and for purposes connected therewith," received the Royal Assent on the 29th of March, 1867.

The following letters may be of some interest to the friends of the late Sir George Etienne
Cartier, and to mine:

                              "W. P. HOTEL, LONDON,
                                "30 April, 1867.

"My DEAR MR. WATKIN,

"I leave to-morrow for Liverpool on my way to Canada. Allow me, before my departure, to convey
to you personally and for 'Canada' the most sincere and grateful thanks for all the kindnesses
you have bestowed, on me since my sojourn in London, and for all the political services you
have rendered to 'Canada' in having so efficiently helped the carrying of the great confederation
measure. I hope that before long we will see you again in Canada, and rest assured that we
will be delighted to demonstrate to you our gratefulness.

"Be kind enough to present my best respects to Mrs. Watkin, and to ask her to accept from me
the within-enclosed photograph taken at 'Naples,' which I think is very good.

                         "Good bye, my dear Mr. Watkin, and believe me,
                              "Yours very truly,
                                 "GEO. ET. CARTIER.
"E. W. WATKIN, Esq., M.P."

MISTAKE ABOUT HONORS.

When the Act for Confederation had been passed, and while some of the delegates were still
in England, a notification was made of honors intended to be conferred by Her Majesty on some
of those who had devoted anxious hours of labour to the great cause of Union. In my case, my
name was mentioned for knighthood, while the names of Mr. Cartier and Mr. Galt were named for
the honor of "C. B.," and Mr. Langevin's name appeared to be entirely omitted. When, how, or
by whom, the leader of the great French-speaking section of the Canadian people was placed,
thus, in a position inferior to that of the leader of Upper Canada, who was made "K. C. B.,"
I do not care, now, to inquire. But I felt at the time, and I feel now, that it would have
been unjust-- unselfish and earnest as my services had been--to give to a man like Mr. Cartier,
an honor inferior to that which common report had attributed to me. I felt, also, that the
proposal would be treated as a slight to the Catholic and French-speaking people. I did all
in my, limited, power to represent the mistake and the danger to the leaders of the Government,
at home; and, as will be shown in the next Chapter, I wrote to Mr. Disraeli on this serious
question on the 3rd August, 1867.

                              "MONTREAL,
                                "23rd August, 1867.

"MY DEAR MR. WATKIN,

"I thank you very much for your kind letters. Really you are too good to espouse, as it were,
my cause respecting the honors conferred in Canada. There is no doubt that----is the cause
of all the evil in the matter of the honors conferred. Some other parties are also not exempt
from blame. I have not as yet received a reply to my letter declining the C. B. ship. I presume
I shall have it very soon. I have to tell you that I will make throughout all Lower Canada
the best electoral campaign I have ever made. The Rouges will not elect 10 members out of the
65 allotted to Lower Canada. Holton and Dorion, the leaders of the Rouge Party, will very likely
be defeated. I went to Chateaugay on Monday last to attend a meeting against Holton. I gave
it to him as he deserved. I will tell you in confidence that Gait and myself through the large
majority I will have in Lower Canada, will be stronger than ever. Mrs. Cartier and my girls
are at Rimouska. I will deliver them your kind messages as soon as I see them. My kindest regards
to Mrs. Watkin, and believe me,

                              "My dear Mr. Watkin,
                                "Yours very truly,
                                  "GEO. ET. CARTIER.

"E. W. WATKIN, Esq, M.P.,
        "London."

                              "MONTREAL,
                                "22nd September, 1867.

"MY DEAR MR. WATKIN,

"Accept my most sincere thanks for your such unappreciable kindness in having made common cause
with me in reference to the late distribution of honors in Canada. I do really think, and I
am convinced, that you have allowed your good heart to go too far in having declined the honor
and distinction offered to you, and which you so well deserved in every respect. I hope that
my matter will not stand in the way of you having your public and political services in England,
as well as in Canada, sooner or later fully recognized, and well rewarded by a proper and suitable
distinction. I hope so, for your own sake as well as for that of Mrs. Watkin and your son and
amiable daughter. The Chancellor of the Exchequer has written you a very nice letter, indeed.
With regard to my matter, would you imagine that the Duke of Buckingham has written a confidential
note to Lord Monck, telling to this latter that there being no precedent for a resignation
of the C. B., the only way to have my wishes carried out would be by the Queen directing by
order in the Gazette my name to be struck out from the Order, which proceeding, the Duke adds,
would be construed by outsiders and uninitiated that it was for misconduct. Lord Monck having
communicated to me the substance of the Duke's communication, I have asked Lord Monck to obtain
from the Duke leave to communicate to me the substance of his note in no confidential manner,
in order that I may reply to it. I do really think that the intention is to frighten me, in
order to induce me to withdraw my letter asking leave to resign the C. B. That I will not do,
and when the Duke's communication is under my eyes in no confidential manner, I will send such
a reply that will make people understand the injury done to me, and the slight so absurdly
offered to a million of good and loyal French Canadians. As a matter of course, all that I
say to you in this letter is strictly in confidence to you.

"Mrs. Cartier and myself have had the pleasure, yesterday, to have the company at dinner of
your friends Mr. and Mrs. Sidebottom. They are really a very nice couple, and we thank you
for having given us the opportunity of making their acquaintance. Be kind enough to present
on my behalf, and on that of Mrs. Cartier and my daughters, our best respects and regards to
Mrs. Watkin, and to believe me, my dear Mr. Watkin,

                              "Your devoted friend,
                                "GEO. ET. CARTIER.

"E. W. WATKIN, Esq., M.P., London."

                              "OTTAWA,
                                "24th November, 1867.

"MY DEAR MR. WATKIN,

"I am so much thankful to you for your kind wish of the 10th of October last. I do appreciate
with gratefulness your so kind expression of feelings towards me. I enclose you an extract
of the 'Montreal Gazette,' giving the report of a debate which took place in our House some
few days ago respecting the 'C.B.' matter, and also an 'extract' of the same paper, containing
some editorial remarks on the same subject. I like to keep you au courant of that matter, since
you are so good as to take interest in it. I took great care not to take any part in the debate.
I have not as yet got a copy of the Duke of Buckingham's letter. I will follow your advice
with regard to any answer to it on my part. I will never forget your disinterestedness in this
question of 'honor' and nothing will be more agreeable to me than to act in such a way, whenever
the opportunity will offer itself, as to show by reciprocal action my thanks and my feelings.

"'The Grand Trunk Act' will be read a second time to-morrow (Monday). Mrs. Cartier and my girls
are here for a few days. We were all sorry to hear that your son had an attack of fever. We
all hope that he got over it, and that he is well again. Be kind enough to present to Mrs.
Watkin and your dear son our best regards and kindest remembrance. I regret very much the retirement
of 'Galt' from our government. You will have heard that I have replaced him by Rose. I could
not do better under any circumstances.

                              "QUEBEC,
                                "15th February, 1868.

"MY DEAR MR. WATKIN,

"I am very grateful to you for your three kind letters of the 2nd, 13th, and 15th January last.
Be good enough to excuse me if I have not sooner acknowledged their receipt.

"I am in Quebec since a couple of weeks, attending the 'Local Parliament,' of which I am a
member. Things are going on very well. I got elected to the 'Local Parliament' in order to
help my friends, the 'Local Ministers' to carry on the 'Local Government' and I must say they
are doing it very well. The 'Quebec Legislature' carries this 'business' better than does the
'Ontario Legislature.' I will leave for Ottawa on the 17th instant, to be there on the 20th
to attend the Council Meeting for deciding on the route of the Intercolonial Railway.

"I felt so sorry to hear that your dear son was so long unwell. I hope that by this time he
is himself again.

"I gave to Mrs. Cartier and my daughters your kind message of good wishes for them and myself
during this present year. We are all thankful to you. Have the goodness to accept in return
from them and myself for you, Mrs. Watkin, and your dear son and daughter, our best wishes
for the prosperity and happiness of you all.

"I must say, my dear Mr. Watkin, that with regard to the C. B. matter, you do really take too
much trouble and interest for me. I am very thankful to you for it, and also to Mr. Baring
and Lord Wharncliffe. If you have occasion to intimate to them my thankfulness, if any opportunity
for so doing should offer itself to you, you would oblige me very much.

"Really it was too kind of Lord Wharncliffe to have brought that delicate matter before Lord
Derby, and to have written you about it. I thank you for the enclosures you have made to me
of what Lord Wharncliffe had written to you about the C. B.

"I have now to tell you something which happened about that subject since my last to you.

