Making a rush for these, we shoved them by main force back over the side, only just in time
to meet another group who had scrambled up. It was no longer possible to fire. We clubbed our
muskets and dealt about us lustily, cheers and yells and groans mingling in a babel the like
of which I had never heard before. I reckoned that there were at least three Frenchmen to every
one of us, and Duguay-Trouin was with them; I heard his voice shouting encouragement. 'Twas
lucky that their deck was lower than ours, for if we had been level I doubt not we had soon
been overpowered by the weight of numbers. But they, being below us, and crowded to boot, could
not use their superiority to advantage, and though they did what mortal men might to get at
us, we beat them back time after time.

Joe, beside me, was a host in himself. 'Twas clear fighting and not coopering was the trade
he was born to; he cut and thrust and jabbed and smote with his musket, and more than once
drove a Frenchman backward by mere shoving with his mighty shoulders, breathing hard, shouting
loving farewells to the men he heaved into the smack or the sea, some of them, I fear, never
to fight again. But in truth we all fought with might and main; we knew how much depended on
the issue.

And let no Englishman ever despise the French as an enemy, as 'tis the fashion with some vainglorious
folk to do. I have fought them, and I know, and I say they are gallant fighters, and as brave
as men can be.

How long the light continued I could not tell; but all at once, as it seemed to me, the enemy
disappeared; there was no one in front of me to hit.

"Fling off the grappling irons," I shouted, and in a trice we disengaged them and cast them
back whence they came. The two vessels broke apart, and though ere we had left the smack behind,
a volley of bullets fell among us, hitting three of our men, and giving me a burning wound
in the leg, the fight was over. We hailed our victory with a true English cheer, and I own
I felt no little pride in having worsted so renowned a captain as Duguay-Trouin.

But I was by no means sure that we were wholly out of peril. The sound of firing must have
been heard for miles around, and we could not tell but that Duguay-Trouin's own vessel, and
maybe others, too, were making sail towards us. Dilly had now set the course of the vessel
due north, but the wind was against us, and we had still many hours to sail before we gained
the open Channel. A big red moon was peering above the horizon, and (having stanched my wound
and done what was possible for my comrades who were hurt, none seriously, thank God!) I looked
anxiously for signs of vessels.

By and by, as the light increased with the whitening moon, I did indeed behold a large vessel
under full sail beating towards us, and I made no doubt 'twas Duguay-Trouin's privateer. The
bosun said her course would bring her athwart ours, and I felt how barren our late victory
would prove if she came to grips with us. 'Twas clear she was outsailing us, and the seasoned
mariners among my comrades foretold that in a couple of hours we should be at her mercy.

We had spread all the canvas we could carry, and could only wait and hope. I sat on a coil
of rope, suffering much pain from my wound, and trembling with anxiety as I watched the vessel
drawing nearer and nearer. A shifting of the wind helped us to mend our pace a little; two
hours, three hours, four hours passed, and still the enemy had not come within range of us.
And then, as day began to dawn, I gave up hope, foreseeing a speedy end to the chase and an
enforced surrender.

But a cry from Runnles, who had gone aloft, raised my drooping spirits.

"Four sail, sir, on the larboard bow," he shouted.

I sprang up (forgetting my wounded leg), and looked eagerly across the sea. By and by I discovered
four vessels of a large size bearing down upon us from the west. Whether friend or foe I could
not tell until I saw the privateer change her course and at last head directly back towards
the shore. Then a great shout of thankfulness broke from the throats of us tired men. We could
no longer doubt that these were English ships, and we were alive with excitement when we saw
two of them part from the others and go in chase of the privateer. Would they catch her? We
forgot our fatigue and wounds, so fascinated were we in watching the pursuit, and the other
two vessels were within hailing distance of us almost before we were aware. English colors
were now flying at our masthead, and a voice through a speaking trumpet called to know who we were.

"The brig Polly of Southampton," roared the bosun in reply, "run a-truant from Doggy-Trang.
And who be you?

"Ads bobs, sir," he added in a breath to me, "there be a white flag at her fore topmast."

"What's that mean?" I asked.

But I had my answer from the other vessel.

"The frigate Gloucester, with Admiral Benbow aboard."

And then Joe Punchard danced a pirouette ('twas a comical sight, he being so bandy), and shouted:

"'Tis my captain, my captain, dash my bowlines and binnacle."

And he caught the arm of one of the deserters, and danced him round the deck till he was dizzy.

Chapter 20: The King's Commission.

I have had many happy moments in my life, but none happier, I do think, than when Admiral Benbow
clapped me on the shoulder and cried, in his big quarterdeck voice:

"Why, my lad, we must have you a middy, and you shall serve the King."

I was in the admiral's own cabin on the Gloucester, whither I had been taken when my wound
was dressed. Mr. Benbow and the captain were both there, and to them I had to tell my story,
from the time of my setting forth from Shrewsbury to the late fight with Duguay-Trouin. Some
little concernments of my own (the fight with Topper in the barn, and my rescue of Mistress
Lucy on the highroad) I kept to myself, but the rest of my adventures I related as I have set
them down here, though, to be sure, more shortly. The officers found much entertainment in
my narrative, and in particular they were mightily tickled at the notion of escaped prisoners
capturing themselves. The admiral was good enough to speak in high praise of my doings (far
beyond my deserts), and then he told me that though he could not himself make a midshipman
without a warrant from a higher power, he would use his interest in my behoof, and had no doubt
that all would fall out as I most ardently desired.

I had to wear my leg in a sling for a week or more, but then I got about as nimbly as ever.
In all but name I was a junior midshipman, for the admiral said I must learn betimes the duties
of the rank which was to be mine as soon as he could compass it. And I set about doing so with
zest, for I was now turned eighteen, and there were boys in my mess four years younger who
were veterans in seamanship and ship drill compared with me.

My messmates welcomed me with much kindness; while I was laid up of my wound they had heard
of my adventures from Joe Punchard, who was a prime favorite aboard; and they all declared
they wished they had had my luck, though they agreed with me when I reminded them that a nine
months' imprisonment was after all a long price to pay. They told me I should certainly get
a good share of prize money for the recapture of the Polly of Southampton, and probably also
for the other prize of Duguay-Trouin's that was retaken. The two frigates sent in chase of
the privateer had failed to come up with her, but they had seized the prize lying off the point,
which proved to be an Indiaman richly laden.

The knowledge that I should soon have some money of my own was very grateful to me, and I felt
a natural elation of spirits at the wonderful change that had come over my fortunes.

I hoped that while I was on the admiral's ship I should see and take my part in a good set
battle between our squadron and the French; but in this I was disappointed. Admiral Benbow
was on his way to Dunkirk, to lie in wait for the French admiral Du Bart and pursue him if
he should put to sea. We cruised off the port for upwards of a month without any encounter
with the enemy; and when at last, towards the end of August, we gave chase to some of their
vessels which had slipped out, we failed to overtake any of them save a small privateer of
ten guns, which struck her colors on the first demand we made.

And then in September we learned that peace was proclaimed. The treaty about whose terms the
diplomatists had been wrangling for seven or eight months had at last been signed at Ryswick,
and the war was at an end. But none of the officers believed that the peace would endure. 'Twas
impossible, they said, that Dutch William would ever be a friend of French Lewis, and they
prognosticated that the lifelong struggle between the two kings would yet be fought out to
a bitter end.

Regarding war, as did all lads of my age, rather as a stage for the display of gallantry and
prowess than as the dreadful scourge it really is, I wished for nothing better than that I
should soon have an opportunity of serving under the brave admiral. He was already a hero to
me, and not to me only. All the world knows of his courage and daring and skill, but only those
who were closely connected with him know the full worth of that great-hearted man. The sailors
loved him. He would go and sit down with them in the foc'sle, chatting with them rather like
a brother than a high officer, yet without loss of dignity or respect. Bravery and seamanship
he rated at their true value, whether in peer or peasant; but he never could abide the fops
and fine gentlemen who thought they became officers merely by donning epaulets. With them he
had no patience, and in consequence he was as much hated as loved. The tars were his to a man:
but the officers were either his dear friends or his bitter foes.

Towards the end of September we ran into Portsmouth harbor, and the ships were then paid off.
I learned that some time must elapse before the prize money was distributed: but being eager
to get back to Shrewsbury and see my good friend and especially to acquaint Captain Galsworthy
with my wondrous good fortune, I was glad to accept the advance of twenty pounds which the
admiral offered me when I told him of my wish. I spent five pounds in buying a befitting suit
of clothes, devoting much care to the cloth and the cut. The admiral laughed when I went to
take leave of him, and jokingly said that he hoped I was not going to shame him by turning
into a beau and a lady-killer.

"I smoke you, by gad!" he cried with another laugh, when to my confusion I felt my cheeks go warm.

And the truth of it is I had determined to pay a visit to Mr. Allardyce on my way home, and
the wish to cut a different figure from that in which I had first appeared to the ladies of
his family had entered not a little into the consideration of my new garments. Why do I say
"the ladies"? Let me be honest and say 'twas Mistress Lucy I had in my mind.

There was no question of tramping to Shrewsbury afoot. I took passage to Bristowe in a coasting
vessel, and there, after having a chat with old Woodrow (who told me that his friend Captain
Reddaway had sworn to shew me a rope's end for deceiving him if I ever came athwart his hawser),
I booked a seat in the new diligence that ran between Bristowe and Worcester, and there indulged
myself in the luxury of a postchaise for the journey to the Hall. And I warrant you I was as
proud as a peacock when the chaise swung in at the gate, and rattled up the drive to the door.

'Twas Susan who opened it. She stared at me for a moment, then burst out a-giggling, and left
me standing while she rushed into the house with a cry of "Measter, here be Joe come back,
dressed like a lord!"

"The deuce he is!" came the answering roar, and down came Mr. Allardyce, pipe in hand, with
his wife and Mistress Lucy close behind him.

"How d'ye do, sir?" says I, advancing, feeling my face glow with pleasure at seeing my kind
friends again as much as any other emotion, I am sure.

"Come back for a job, Joe?" cries Mr. Allardyce, gripping my hand heartily. "Ah! you impostor!
We know all about you, you young dog, don't we, madam? Joe! Humph!"

"You can't shorten it like that, sir," said I, laughing, and giving a hand to the ladies in turn.

And I don't know whether 'twas due to the suit of clothes, but certainly I felt, as I shook
hands with Mistress Lucy, none of the shamefaced awkwardness that had overcome me when I stood
before her in rags and she called me "poor man."

They had me into the room where I had begged work of Mr. Allardyce, and despatched Susan (still
giggling) to bespeak a meal of Martha the cook.

"And you must give an account of yourself, Mr. Bold," says Mr. Allardyce, putting out a chair
for me and pushing a pipe into my hand.

"With all my heart, sir," said I, "but first will you please enlighten me as to how you know
my name?"

"Why we learned it a month after you left us," he replied. "'Twas Roger found it out.

"He is not here, hang it!" he said, his face falling a little. "We could not keep him at home
after you had gone, and now he's carrying an ensign in the foot regiment of General Webb.

"Well, 'twas he found out all about you. Having set his heart on going into the army, he must
needs go into Shrewsbury to take lessons in fencing from a Captain Galsworthy he had heard
of. And it appears that during his very first bout with the captain he tried a botte that you
had taught him. The captain drops his point, and stares a moment, and then cries 'Ads my life!
The only man in the world that knows that botte besides myself is Humphrey Bold. Where in the
name of Beelzebub did you learn it?' And so it all came out, and the whole story of the villainous
doings of those Cluddes and Lawyer Vetch--"

"Stay, sir," I interrupted; "Mr. Vetch is a very dear friend of mine, and I would lay my life
he is innocent of any share of the trickery that lost me my father's lands."

"Maybe, maybe: I know the story of the will," said Mr. Allardyce. "Roger was wild with excitement
when he came back, and nothing would satisfy him but that he must go to Bristowe and see if
he could learn any news of you. But he could learn nothing, and--"

"My dear," says Mistress Allardyce at this point, "you are keeping us waiting so long. Lucy
and I want to hear Mr. Bold."

"That's an extinguisher," cries he with a jolly laugh.

"Light my pipe, Lucy, my dear; it will last a good half hour, and maybe that will be long enough
for Mr. Bold's story."

But in truth he had smoked another couple of pipes before I had finished, and gave no heed
to Susan when she appeared at the door and said that my meal was ready. I have heard that a
speaker's eloquence depends much upon his hearers and the bond of sympathy betwixt him and
them, and sure I spoke with a freedom that surprised me. Certainly no man was ever better favored
in his audience; Mr. Allardyce let his pipe go out more than once. And the ladies hung on my
words, Mistress Lucy sitting forward in her chair, her lips parted, her eyes kindling, and
a ruddy glow suffusing her cheeks. The room rang with Mr. Allardyce's laughter when I described
our march across country with the gagged Frenchmen, and I vow I could almost hear the beating
of Mistress Lucy's heart as I told of our fight with Duguay-Trouin.

When I had ended my tale, Mr. Allardyce tugged at the bell rope, crying:

"Egad, we must drink the health of Mr. Midshipman Bold," and when Susan appeared, with surprising
celerity (I believe the minx had been listening at the door) he roared at her for keeping me
waiting so long a-fasting.

"And what do you think of that, Lucy?" he cries, turning to his niece. "Didst ever hear such
a tale of ups and downs and derring do?"

"I love Joe Punchard," said Mistress Lucy, and that set her uncle a-laughing again, though
I confess it somewhat mystified me.

My kind friends insisted that I should stay the night with them, and we sat up talking to a
late hour. I longed to ask how things stood in the matter of the guardianship of Mistress Lucy,
but the subject was ignored by tacit consent so long as the ladies were in the room. When they
had retired, however, Mr. Allardyce drew his chair alongside of mine, and said:

"Humphrey, I am worried out of my life. We are almost in a state of siege here. Ever since
that attempt at kidnapping Lucy that you so happily frustrated I have never felt easy about
her. She never goes forth unattended now: those morning rides are at an end. I have taken two
more menservants to act as special guard for her, and they two, or myself and one of them,
always accompany her, with well primed pistols, I warrant you. Men have been seen at various
times lurking about here, and I have taken pains to track them, and went so far as to commit
one of them for loitering with intent to commit a felony. But I had no proof, and an attorney
fellow in Shrewsbury named Moggridge threatened me with all sorts of pains and penalties if
I did not at once release the villain."

"But what does the law say to it, sir?" I asked.

"The law is uncommon slow to say anything, confound it! My lawyer in Bridgenorth was at first
all for an accommodation, as he called it; he wanted me to make terms with that rogue Cludde,
and a host of letters passed between him and Moggridge, who is Cludde's attorney. But that
failed; of course it did, since I wouldn't give way, and now my man has filed a bill in chancery
to make Lucy a ward of court, with me as her guardian. The other side is opposing, and the
case will not come on till next sessions and maybe not then. My man says we are bound to win,
the court, as he declares, being very jealous of the rights of minors, especially where property
is concerned. But meanwhile we live in constant fear of the girl being carried off, and if
they once get her there will be precious little chance of getting her back."

"Can we not imprison Dick Cludde for the former attempt?" I suggested. "Now that I am back
I could give evidence against him."

"He is away with his ship, and will be careful, you may be sure, not to show his nose again
in these parts while there is any danger."

"But the other fellow, Vetch--has he been seen hereabouts? I have often wondered what became
of him after he left prison."

"What is he like?"

"A tall, thin, weasel-faced fellow, with a sour look."

"No, I have not seen or heard of him."

"If I could hear of his whereabouts I would have him arrested for his complicity in my kidnapping.
I own I should feel more secure of Mistress Lucy's safety if I knew he was laid by the heels.
Could you give me a warrant, sir, which I could execute if ever I met him?"

"I will certainly do so, though I doubt if he'll ever give you the opportunity. Villains of
his stamp are uncommonly clever in running to earth. But you shall have the warrant."

"I shall see his uncle tomorrow," I said. "May I mention Mistress Lucy's affairs to him? He
was accounted a good lawyer until that unhappy business of my father's will, and as he has
no reason to love the Cluddes, or his nephew either, I am sure he would give the best advice
he knows."

"Do so, by all means; 'twill be some comfort to know that my man is taking the right course."

