NATHANIEL HAWTHORNE

BY

GEORGE E. WOODBERRY

PREFACE

The narrative of Hawthorne's life has been partly told in the autobiographical passages of
his writings which he himself addressed to his readers from time to time, and in the series
of "Note Books," not meant for publication but included in his posthumous works; the remainder
is chiefly contained in the family biography, "Nathaniel Hawthorne and his Wife" by his son
Julian Hawthorne, "Memories of Hawthorne" by his daughter, Mrs. Rose Hawthorne Lathrop, and
"A Study of Hawthorne," by his son-in-law, George Parsons Lathrop. Collateral material is also
to be found abundantly in books of reminiscences by his contemporaries. These are the printed
sources of the present biography.

The author takes pleasure in expressing his thanks to his publishers for the ample material
they have placed at his disposal; and also to Messrs. Harper and Brothers for their permission
to make extracts from Horatio Bridge's "Personal Recollections of Nathaniel Hawthorne," and
to Samuel T. Pickard, Esq., author of "Hawthorne's First Diary," and to Dr. Moncure D. Conway,
author of "Nathaniel Hawthorne" (Appleton's), for a like courtesy.

COLUMBIA COLLEGE, April 1, 1902.

CONTENTS

CHAP.

I. FIRST YEARS

II. THE CHAMBER UNDER THE EAVES

III. WEIGHER, GAUGER, AND FARMER

IV. THE OLD MANSE

V. THE SCARLET LETTER

VI. LITERARY LABORS

VII. LIFE ABROAD

VIII. LAST YEARS

NATHANIEL HAWTHORNE

       *       *       *       *       *

I.

FIRST YEARS.

The Hathorne family stock, to name it with the ancient spelling, was English, and its old home
is said to have been at Wigeastle, Wilton, in Wiltshire. The emigrant planter, William Hathorne,
twenty-three years old, came over in the Arbella with Winthrop in 1630. He settled at Dorchster,
but in 1637 removed to Salem, where he received grants of land; and there the line continued
generation after generation with varying fortune, at one time coming into public service and
local distinction, and at another lapsing again into the common lot, as was the case of the
long settled families generally. The planter, William Hathorne, shared to the full in the vigor
and enterprise of the first generation in New England. He was a leader in war and peace, trade
and politics, with the versatility then required for leadership, being legislator, magistrate,
Indian fighter, explorer, and promoter, as well as occasionally a preacher; and besides this
practical force he had a temper to sway and incite, which made him reputed the most eloquent
man in the public assembly. He possessed--and this may indicate another side to his character--a
copy of Sir Philip Sidney's "Arcadia," certainly a rare book in the wilderness. He was best
remembered, both in local annals and family tradition, as a patriot and a persecutor, for he
refused to obey the king's summons to England, and he ordered Quaker women to be whipped through
the country-side.

The next generation, born in the colony, were generally of a narrower type than their fathers,
though in their turn they took up the work of the new and making world with force and conscience;
and the second Hathorne, John, of fanatical memory, was as characteristically a latter-day
Puritan as his father had been a pioneer. He served in the council and the field, but he left
a name chiefly as a magistrate. His duty as judge fell in the witchcraft years, and under that
adversity of fortune he showed those qualities of the Puritan temperament which are most darkly
recalled; he examined and sentenced to death several of the accused persons, and bore himself
so inhumanely in court that the husband of one of the sufferers cursed him,--it must have been
dramatically done to have left so vivid a mark in men's minds,--him and his children's children.
This was the curse that lingered in the family memory like a black blot in the blood, and was
ever after used to explain any ill luck that befell the house. The third heir of the name,
Joseph, was a plain farmer, in whose person the family probably ceased from the ranks of the
gentry, as the word was then used. The fourth, Daniel, "bold Hathorne" of the Revolutionary
ballad, was a privateersman, robust, ruddy of face, blue-eyed, quick to wrath,--a strong-featured
type of the old Salem shipmaster. His son, Nathaniel, the fifth descendant, was also bred to
the sea, a young man of slight, firm figure, and in face and build so closely resembling his
famous son--for he was the father of Hawthorne--that a passing sailor once recognized the latter
by the likeness. What else he transmitted to his son, in addition to physique, by way of temperament
and inbred capacity and inclination, was to suffer more than a sea-change; but he is recalled
as a stern man on deck, of few words, showing doubtless the early aging of those days under
the influence of active responsibility, danger, and the habit of command, and, like all these
shipmasters--for they were men of some education--he took books to sea with him. He died at
Surinam in 1808, when thirty-two years old. He had married Elizabeth Clarke Manning, herself
a descendant in the fifth generation of Richard Manning, of St. Petrox Parish, Dartmouth, whose
widow emigrated to New England with her children in 1679. Other old colonial families that
had blended with the Hathornes and Mannings in these American years were the Gardner, Bowditch,
and Phelps stocks, on the one side, and the Giddings, Potter, and Lord, on the other. Of such
descent, Nathaniel Hawthorne, the second child and only son of this marriage, was born at Salem,
July 4, 1804, in his grandfather Daniel's house, on Union Street, near the wharves.

The pleasant, handsome, bright-haired boy was four years old when his mother called him into
her room and told him that his father was dead. She soon removed with him and his sisters,
of whom Elizabeth was four years older and Louisa two years younger than himself, to her father's
house in the adjoining yard, which faced on Herbert Street; and there the young mother, who
was still but twenty-seven, following a custom which made much of widows' mourning in those
times, withdrew to a life of seclusion in her own room, which, there or elsewhere, she maintained
till her death, through a period of forty years; and, as a perpetual outward sign of her solitude,
she took her meals apart, never eating at the common table. There is a touch of mercy in life
which allows childhood to reconcile itself with all conditions; else one might regret that
the lad was to grow up from his earliest memory in the visible presence of this grief separating
him in some measure from his mother's life; it was as if there were a ghost in the house; and
though early anecdotes of him are few and of little significance, yet in his childish threat
to go away to sea and never come back again, repeated through years, one can but trace the
deep print of that sorrow of the un-returning ones which was the tragedy of women's lives all
along this coast. His mother cared for him none the less, though she was less his companion,
and there seems to have been no diminution of affection and kindness between them, though an
outward habit of coldness sprang up as time went on. He had his sisters for playmates at first,
and as he grew up, he was much looked after by his uncles. His first master was Dr. Worcester,
the lexicographer, then just graduated from Yale, who set up a school in Salem; and, the lad
being lamed in ball-playing, the young teacher came to the house to carry on the lessons. The
accident happened when Hawthorne was nine years old, and the injury, which reduced him to crutches,
continued to trouble him till he was twelve, at least, after which, to judge by the fact that
he attended dancing-school, he seems to have entirely recovered from it. The habit of reading
came to him earlier, perhaps because of his confinement and disability for sports in these
three or four years; he was naturally thrown back upon himself. He is seen lying upon the floor
habitually, and when not playing with cats--the only boyish fondness told of him--reading Shakspere,
Milton, Thomson, the books of the household, not uncommon in New England homes, where good
books were as plenty then as all books are now; and on Sundays, at his grandmother Hathorne's,
across the yard, he would crouch hour after hour over Bunyan's "Pilgrim's Progress," that refuge
of boyhood on the oldtime Sabbaths. It is recollected that, by the time he was fourteen, he
had read Clarendon, Froissart, and Rousseau, besides "The Newgate Calendar," a week-day favorite;
and he may be said to have begun youth already well versed in good English books, and with
the habit and taste of literary pleasure established as a natural part of life. "The Faerie
Queene" was the first book he bought with his own money. He was vigorous enough now; but the
two outward circumstances that most affected his boyhood, the monotone of his mother's sorrow
and his own protracted physical disability, must have given him touches of gravity and delicacy
beyond his years. It is noticeable that nothing is heard of any boy friends; nor did he contract
such friendships, apparently, before college days.

In the fall of 1818, when Hawthorne was fourteen years old, the family removed to Raymond,
in Maine, where the Mannings possessed large tracts of land. The site of this township was
originally a grant to the surviving members and the heirs of Captain Raymond's militia company
of Beverly, the next town to Salem, for service in the French and Indian war; and Hawthorne's
grandfather, Richard Manning, being the secretary of the proprietors, who managed the property
and held their meetings in Beverly, had toward the close of the century bought out many of
their rights. After his death the estate thus acquired was kept undivided, and was managed
for his children by his sons Richard and Robert, and finally at any rate, more particularly
by the latter, who stood in the closest relation to Hawthorne of all his uncles, having undertaken
to provide for his education. He had built a large, square, hip-roofed house at Raymond, after
the model common in his native county of Essex, as a comfortable dwelling, but so seemingly
grand amid the humble surroundings of the Maine clearing as to earn the name of "Manning's
folly;" and, about 1814, he built a similar house for his sister, near his own, but she had
not occupied it until now, when she came to live there, at first boarding with a tenant. It
was pleasantly situated, with a garden and apple orchard, and with rows of butternut-trees
planted beside it; and perhaps she had sought this retirement with the hope of its being consonant
with her own solitude. The country round about was wilderness, most of it primeval woods. The
little settlement, only a mill and a country store and a few scattered houses, lay on a broad
headland making out into Sebago Lake, better known as the Great Pond, a sheet of water eight
miles across and fourteen miles long, and connected with other lakes in a chain of navigable
water; to the northwest the distant horizon was filled with the White Mountains, and northward
and eastward rose the unfrequented hill and lake country, remarkable only, then as now, for
its pure air and waters, and presenting a vast solitude. This was the Maine home of Hawthorne,
of which he cherished the memory as the brightest part of his boyhood. The spots that can be
named which may have excited his curiosity or interested his imagination are few, and similar
places would not be far off anywhere on the coast. There was near his home a Pulpit Rock, such
as tradition often preserves, and by the Pond there was a cliff with the usual legend of a
romantic leap, and under it were the Indian rock-paintings called the Images; but the essential
charm of the place was that in all directions the country lay open for adventure by boat or
by trail. Hawthorne had visited the scene before, in summer times, and he revisited it afterward
in vacations, but his long stay here was in his fifteenth year, the greater part of which he
passed in its neighborhood.

The contemporary record of these days is contained in a diary [Footnote: Hawthorne's First
Diary, with an account of its discovery and loss. By Samuel T. Pickard. Boston: Houghton, Mifflin
& Co. 1897. The volume has been withdrawn by its editor in consequence of his later doubts
of its authenticity.] which has been regarded as Hawthorne's earliest writing. The original
has never been produced, and the copy was communicated for publication under circumstances
of mystery that easily allow doubts of its authenticity to arise. The diary is said to have
been given to him by his uncle Richard "with the advice that he write out his thoughts, some
every day, in as good words as he can, upon any and all subjects, as it is one of the best
means of his securing for mature years command of thought and language,"--these words being
written on the first leaf with the date, "Raymond, June 1, 1816." Whether this inscription
and the entries which follow it are genuine must be left undetermined; there is nothing strange
in Hawthorne's keeping a boy's diary, and being urged to do so, in view of his tastes and circumstances,
and it would be interesting to trace to so early a beginning that habit of the note-book that
was such a resource to him in mature years; but the evidence is inconclusive. Whether by his
hand or not, the diary embodies the life he led in this region on his visits and during his
longer stay; the names and places, the incidents, the people, the quality of the days are the
same that the boy knew, wrote of in letters of the time, and remembered as a man; and though
the story may be the fabrication of his mulatto boy comrade of those days, it is woven of shreds
and patches of reality. After all, the little book is but a lad's log of small doings,--swapping
knives, swimming and fishing, of birds and snakes and bears, incidents of the road and excursions
into the woods and on the lake, and notices of the tragic accidents of the neighborhood. It
has some importance as illustrating the external circumstances of the place, a very rural place
indeed, and suggesting that among these country people Hawthorne found the secret of that fellowship--all
he ever had--with the rough and unlearned, on a footing of democratic equality, with the ease
and naturalness of a man. Here at Raymond in his youth, where his personal superiority was
too much a matter of course to be noticed, he must have learned this freemasonry with young
and old at the same time that he held apart from all in his own life. These were delightful
days.... I would skate all alone on Sebago Lake, with the deep shadows of the icy hills on
either hand. When I found myself far from home, and weary with the exhaustion of skating, I
would sometimes take refuge in a log cabin where half a tree would be burning on the broad
hearth. I would sit in the ample chimney, and look at the stars through the great aperture
through which the flames went roaring up. Ah, how well I recall the summer days, also, when
with my gun I roamed at will through the woods of Maine!" In these memories, it is evident,
many years, younger and older, are diffused in one recollection. For him, here rather than
by his native sea were those open places of freedom that boyhood loves, and with them he associated
the beginnings of his spirit,--the dark as well as the bright; near his end he told Fields,
as his mind wandered back to these days, "I lived in Maine like a bird of the air, so perfect
was the freedom I enjoyed. But it was there I first got my cursed habits of solitude." The
tone of these reminiscences is verified by his letters, when he went back to Salem; in the
first months he writes of "very hard fits of homesickness;" a year later he breaks out,--"Oh,
that I had the wings of a dove, that I might fly hence and be at rest! How often do I long
for my gun, and wish that I could again savageize with you! But I shall never again run wild
in Raymond, and I shall never be so happy as when I did;" and, after another year's interval,
"I have preferred and still prefer Raymond to Salem, through every change of fortune." There
can be no doubt where his heart placed the home of his boyhood; nor is it, perhaps, fanciful
to observe that in his books the love of nature he displays is rather for the woods than the
sea, though he was never content to live long away from the salt air.

It was plainly the need of schooling that took him from his mother's home at Raymond and brought
him back to Salem by the summer of 1819, when he was just fifteen years old. Even in the winter
interval he seems to have gone for a few weeks to the house of the Rev. Caleb Bradley, Stroudwater,
Westbrook, in the same county as Raymond, to be tutored. He remained in Salem with his uncles
for the next two years, and was prepared for college, partly, at least, by Benjamin Oliver,
a lawyer, at the expense of his uncle Robert, and during a portion of this time he earned some
money by writing in the office of his uncle William; but he was occupied chiefly with his studies,
reading, and early compositions. At the beginning of this period, in his first autumn letters,
he mentions having lately read "Waverley," "The Mysteries of Udolpho," "The Adventures of Ferdinand
Count Fathom," "Roderick Random," and a volume of "The Arabian Nights;" and he has learned
the easy rhyming of first verses, and stuffs his letters with specimens of his skill, clever
stanzas, well written, modulated in the cadences of the time, with melancholy seriousness and
such play of sad fancy as youthful poets use. He laid little store by his faculty for verse,
and yet he had practiced it from an early childish age and had a fair mastery of its simple
forms; and once or twice in mature life he indulged himself in writing and even in publishing
serious poems. In these years, however, verses were only a part of the ferment of his literary
talent, nor have any of them individuality. He practiced prose, too, and in the next summer,
1820, issued four numbers of a boy's paper, "The Spectator," bearing weekly date from August
21 to September 18, and apparently he had made an earlier experiment, without date, in such
adolescent journalism; it was printed with a pen on small note-paper, and contained such serious
matter as belongs to themes at school on "Solitude" and "Industry," with the usual addresses
to subscribers and the liveliness natural to family news-columns. The composition is smooth
and the manner entertaining, and there is abundance of good spirits and fun of a boyish sort.
The paper shows the literary spirit and taste in its very earliest bud; but no precocity of
talent distinguished it, though doubtless the thought of authorship fed on its tender leaves.
Such experiments belong to the life of growing boys where education is common and literary
facility is thought to be a distinction and sign of promise in the young; and Hawthorne did
not in these ways differ from the normal boy who was destined for college. Nothing more than
these trifles is to be gleaned of his intellectual life at that time, but two or three letters
pleasantly illustrate his brotherly feeling, his spirits, and his uncertainties in regard to
the future, at the same time that they display his absorption in the author's craft; and they
conclude the narrative of these early days before college. The first was written in October,
1820, just after the last issue of "The Spectator," to his younger sister Louisa, and shows
incidentally that these literary pleasures were a family diversion:--

Dear Sister,--I am very angry with you for not sending me some of your poetry, which I consider
a great piece of ingratitude. You will not see one line of mine until you return the confidence
which I have placed in you. I have bought the "Lord of the Isles," and intend either to send
or to bring it to you. I like it as well as any of Scott's other poems. I have read Hogg's
"Tales," "Caleb Williams," "St. Leon," and "Mandeville." I admire Godwin's novels, and intend
to read them all. I shall read the "Abbot," by the author of "Waverley," as soon as I can hire
it. I have read all Scott's novels except that. I wish I had not, that I might have the pleasure
of reading them again. Next to these I like "Caleb Williams." I have almost given up writing
poetry. No man can be a Poet and a bookkeeper at the same time. I do find this place most "dismal,"
and have taken to chewing tobacco with all my might, which, I think, raises my spirits. Say
nothing of it in your letters, nor of the "Lord of the Isles." ... I do not think I shall ever
go to college. I can scarcely bear the thought of living upon Uncle Robert for four years longer.
How happy I should be to be able to say, "I am Lord of myself!" You may cut off this part of
my letter, and show the other to Uncle Richard. Do write me some letters in skimmed milk. I
must conclude, as I am in a "monstrous hurry"!

Your affectionate brother,

NATH. HATHORNE.

P. S. The most beautiful poetry I think I ever saw begins:--

  "She 'a gone to dwell in Heaven, my lassie,
  She's gone to dwell in Heaven:
  Ye're ow're pure quo' a voice aboon
  For dwalling out of Heaven."

It is not the words, but the thoughts. I hope you have read it, as I know you would admire it.

A passage from a second letter, six months later, March 13, 1821, to his mother, reveals the
character of his relationship with her:--

I don't read so much now as I did, because I am more taken up in studying.

But as the mail closes soon, I must stop the career of my pen. I will only inform you that
I now write no poetry, or anything else. I hope that either Elizabeth or you will write to
me next week. I remain

Your affectionate son,

NATHL. HATHORNE.

Do not show this letter.

A third letter, June 19, 1821, also to his mother, on the eve of his departure for college,
is interesting for the solicitude it exhibits for her happiness in the solitary life she had
come to live.

"I hope, dear mother, that you will not be tempted by my entreaties to return to Salem to live.
You can never have so much comfort here as you now enjoy. You are now undisputed mistress of
your own house.... If you remove to Salem, I shall have no mother to return to during the college
vacations, and the expense will be too great for me to come to Salem. If you remain at Raymond,
think how delightfully the time will pass, with all your children round you, shut out from
the world, and nothing to disturb us. It will be a second Garden of Eden.

  'Lo, what an entertaining sight
  Are kindred who agree!'

"Elizabeth is as anxious for you to stay as myself. She says she is contented to remain here
for a short time, but greatly prefers Raymond as a permanent place of residence. The reason
for my saying so much on this subject is that Mrs. Dike and Miss Manning are very earnest for
you to return to Salem, and I am afraid they will commission uncle Robert to persuade you to
it. But, mother, if you wish to live in peace, I conjure you not to consent to it. Grandmother,
I think, is rather in favor of your staying."

A few weeks later, in the summer of 1821, being then seventeen years old, Hawthorne left Salem
for Bowdoin College, in Brunswick, Maine, by the mail stage from Boston eastward, and before
reaching his destination picked up by the way a Sophomore, Franklin Pierce, afterwards President
of the United States, and two classmates of his own, Jonathan Cilley, who went to Congress
and was the victim of the well-remembered political duel with Graves, and Alfred Mason; he
made friends with these new companions, and Mason became his room-mate for two years. Bowdoin
was a small college, graduating at that time about thirty students at its annual Commencement;
its professors were kindly and cultivated men, and its curriculum the simple academic course
of those days. Hawthorne's class, immortalized fifty years later by Longfellow's grave and
tender anniversary lines, "Morituri Salutamus," was destined to unusual distinction in after
life. Longfellow, its scholastic star, was a boy of fourteen, favored by the regard of the
professors, and belonging to the more studious and steady set of fellows, who gathered in the
Peucinian Society. Hawthorne joined the rival organisation, the Athenaeum, a more free and
boisterous group of lower standing in their studies, described as the more democratic in their
feelings. He is remembered as "a slender lad, having a massive head, with dark, brilliant,
and most expressive eyes, heavy eyebrows, and a profusion of dark hair." He carried his head
on one side, which gave a singularity to his figure, and he had generally a countrified appearance;
but he took his place among his mates without much observation. He was reticent in speech and
reserved in manner, and he was averse to intimacy; he had, nevertheless, a full share in collegiate
life and showed no signs of withdrawal from the common arena. He did not indulge in sports,
saving some rough-and-tumble play, nor did he ride horseback or drive, nor apparently did he
care for that side of youthful life at all, though he was willing to fight on occasion, and
joined the military company of which Pierce was captain. His athleticism seems to have been
confined to his form. He played cards for small stakes, being a member of the Androscoggin
Loo Club, and he took his part in the convivial drinking of the set where he made one, winning
the repute of possessing a strong head. These indulgences were almost too trifling to deserve
mention, for the scale of life at Bowdoin was of the most inexpensive order, and though there
was light gambling and occasional jollification, bad habits were practically impossible in
these directions. He was certainly not ashamed of his doings, for on being detected in one
of these scrapes, at the end of his Freshman year, anticipating a letter of the President,
he wrote to his mother, May 30, 1822, an account of the affair:--

MY DEAR MOTHER,--I hope you have safely arrived in Salem. I have nothing particular to inform
you of, except that all the card-players in college have been found out, and my unfortunate
self among the number. One has been dismissed from college, two suspended, and the rest, with
myself, have been fined fifty cents each. I believe the President intends to write to the friends
of all the delinquents. Should that be the case, you must show the letter to nobody. If I am
again detected, I shall have the honor of being suspended; when the President asked what we
played for, I thought it proper to inform him it was fifty cents, although it happened to be
a quart of wine; but if I had told him of that, he would probably have fined me for having
a blow. There was no untruth in the case, as the wine cost fifty cents. I have not played at
all this term. I have not drank any kind of spirits or wine this term, and shall not till the
last week.

       *       *       *       *       *

He takes up the subject again in a letter to one of his sisters, August 5, 1822:--

"To quiet your suspicions, I can assure you that I am neither 'dead, absconded, or anything
worse.' I have involved myself in no 'foolish scrape,' as you say all my friends suppose; but
ever since my misfortune I have been as steady as a sign-post, and as sober as a deacon, have
been in no 'blows' this term, nor drank any kind of 'wine or strong drink.' So that your comparison
of me to the 'prodigious son' will hold good in nothing, except that I shall probably return
penniless, for I have had no money this six weeks.... The President's message is not so severe
as I expected. I perceive that he thinks I have been led away by the wicked ones, in which,
however, he is greatly mistaken. I was full as willing to play as the person he suspects of
having enticed me, and would have been influenced by no one. I have a great mind to commence
playing again, merely to show him that I scorn to be seduced by another into anything wrong."

The last week of the term and the close of the Senior year appear to have been the seasons
of conviviality, and Hawthorne's life of this sort ended with his being an officer of the Navy
Club, an impromptu association of those of his classmates, fourteen out of thirty-eight, who
for one reason or another were not to have a Commencement part on graduation. The Club met
at the college tavern, Miss Ward's, near the campus, for weekly suppers and every night during
Commencement week; this entertainment was for these youths the happy climax of their academic
life together.

In his studies Hawthorne must have followed his own will very freely. He refused to declaim,
and no power could make him do so, and for this reason he was denied the honor of a Commencement
part, which he had won, being number eighteen by rank in his class; he was nervously shy about
declaiming, owing, it is said, to his having been laughed at on his first attempt as a school-boy
at Salem; but he either delivered or read a Latin theme at a Junior exhibition. He also paid
scant attention to mathematics and metaphysics, and had no pride as to failing in recitation
in those branches; but he distinguished himself as a Latin scholar and in English. His most
fruitful hours, as so often happens, were those spent in the little library of the Athenaeum
Society, a collection, as he writes home, of eight hundred books, among which he especially
mentions Rees's Cyclopaedia--such was the wealth of a boy of genius in those days--but among
the eight hundred books it is certain that the bulk of English literature was contained. He
practiced writing somewhat, though he had given up poetry; and he played a prank by sending
to a Boston paper a fabricated account of one of those destroying insects which visit that
region from time to time, with notes on ways of exterminating it,--all for the benefit of his
uncle, who took the paper; but no other trace of his composition remains except a memory of
his elder sister's that he wrote to her of "progress on my novel." His way of life intellectually
had not changed since his schoolboy days, for it is noticeable that then he never mentioned
his studies, but only the books he read; so now he read the books for pleasure, and let his
studies subsist as best they could in the realm of duty. He was poor, and even in the modest
simplicity of this country college, where his expenses could hardly have been three hundred
dollars a year, was evidently embarrassed with homely difficulties; the state of his clothes
seems to have been on his mind a good deal. But he was self-respecting, patient, and grateful;
he formed the good habit of hating debt; and he went on his way little burdened except by doubtful
hopes.

Though he was familiar with his classmates and contemporaries at college, and firm and fast
friends with a few, like Pierce and Cilley, forming with them the ties that last through all
things, he had but one confidant, Horatio Bridge, afterwards of the United States Navy. Hawthorne
roomed at first with Alfred Mason, in Maine Hall, and being burned out in their Freshman year,
they found temporary quarters elsewhere, but when the Hall was rebuilt returned to it and occupied
room number nineteen for the Sophomore year. The two chums, however, did not become intimate,
beyond pleasant companionship, and they belonged to different societies; and the last two years
Hawthorne roomed alone in a private house, Mrs. Cunning's, where both he and Bridge also boarded.
It is from the latter, who remained through life one of Hawthorne's most serviceable friends,
that the account of his college days mainly comes. He especially remembered, besides such matters
of fact as have been recounted, their walks and rambles together in the pine woods that stretched
about the college unbroken for miles, and by the river with its rafts of spring logs, and over
to the little bay sent up by a far-reaching arm of the sea; and he recalled the confidences
of Hawthorne in speaking of his hopes of being a writer, in repeating to him verses as they
leaned in the moonlight over the railing of the bridge below the falls, listening to the moving
waters, and in allowing him some inward glimpses of his solitary life in the brooding time
of youth. Bridge was a fellow of infinite cheer, and praised him, and clapped him, and urged
him on, and gave him the best companionship in the world for that time of life, if not for
all times,--the companionship of being believed in by a friend. Hawthorne did not forget it,
and in due time paid the tribute of grateful remembrance in the preface to the volume he dedicated
to Bridge, where he recalled his college days and his friend's part in them.

"If anybody is responsible for my being at this day an author, it is yourself. I know not whence
your faith came, but while we were lads together at a country college, gathering blueberries
in study hours under those tall, academic pines, or watching the great logs as they tumbled
along the current of the Androscoggin, or shooting pigeons or gray squirrels in the woods,
or bat-fowling in the summer twilight, or catching trout in that shadowy little stream which,
I suppose, is still wandering riverward through the forest, though you and I will never cast
a line in it again; two idle lads, in short (as we need not fear to acknowledge now), doing
a hundred things that the Faculty never heard of, or else it would have been the worse for
us--still, it was your prognostic of your friend's destiny that he was to be a writer of fiction."

The picture is a vignette of the time, and being in the open, too, pleasantly ends the tale
of college. On separating, it is pleasant to notice, the friends exchanged keepsakes.

The four years had lapsed quietly and quickly by, and Hawthorne, who now adopted the fanciful
spelling of the name after his personal whim, was man grown. There had been trying circumstances
in these early days, but he had met them hardily and lightly, as a matter of course; he had
practically educated himself by the help of books, and had also discharged his duties as they
seemed to the eyes of others; he could go home feeling that he had satisfied his friends. He
seems to have feared that he might have satisfied them too well; and, some commendation having
preceded him, he endeavored to put them right by a letter to his sister, July 14, 1825:--

"The family had before conceived much too high an opinion of my talents, and had probably formed
expectations which I shall never realize. I have thought much upon the subject, and have finally
come to the conclusion that I shall never make a distinguished figure in the world, and all
I hope or wish is to plod along with the multitude. I do not say this for the purpose of drawing
any flattery from you, but merely to set mother and the rest of you right upon a point where
your partiality has led you astray. I did hope that uncle Robert's opinion of me was nearer
to the truth, as his deportment toward me never expressed a very high estimation of my abilities."

This has the ring of sincerity, like all his home letters, and it is true that so far there
had been nothing precocious, brilliant, or extraordinary in him to testify of genius,--he was
only one of hundreds of New England boys bred on literature under the shelter of academic culture;
and yet there may have been in his heart something left unspoken, another mood equally sincere
in its turn, for the heart is a fickle prophet. As Mr. Lathrop suggests in that study of his
father-in-law which is so subtly appreciative of those vital suggestions apt to escape record
and analysis, another part of the truth may lie in the words of "Fanshawe" where Hawthorne
expresses the feelings of his hero in a like situation with himself at the end of college days:--

"He called up the years that, even at his early age, he had spent in solitary study,--in conversation
with the dead,--while he had scorned to mingle with the living world, or to be actuated by
any of its motives. Fanshawe had hitherto deemed himself unconnected with the world, unconcerned
in its feelings, and uninfluenced by it in any of his pursuits. In this respect he probably
deceived himself. If his inmost heart could have been laid open, there would have been discovered
that dream of undying fame, which, dream as it is, is more powerful than a thousand realities."

II.

THE CHAMBER UNDER THE EAVES.

In the summer of 1825 Hawthorne returned to Salem, going back to the old house on Herbert Street,--the
home of his childhood, where his mother, disregarding his boyish dissuasions, had again taken
up her abode three years before. He occupied a room on the second floor in the southwest sunshine
under the eaves, looking out on the business of the wharf-streets; and in it he spent the next
twelve years, a period which remained in his memory as an unbroken tract of time preserving
a peculiar character. The way of his life knew little variation from the beginning to the end.
He lived in an intellectual solitude deepened by the fact that it was only an inner cell of
an outward seclusion almost as complete, for the house had the habits of a hermitage. His mother,
after nearly a score of years of widowhood, still maintained her separation even from her home
world; she is said to have seen none of her husband's relatives and few of her own, and a visitor
must have been a venturesome person. The custom of living apart spread through the household.
The elder sister, Elizabeth, who was of a strong and active mind capable of understanding and
sympathizing with her brother, and the younger sister, Louisa, who was more like other people,
stayed in their rooms. The meals of the family, even, which usually go on when everything else
fails in the common life of house-mates, had an uncertain and variable element in their conduct,
as was not unnatural where the mother never came to the table. The recluse habits of all doubtless
increased with indulgence, and after a while Hawthorne himself, who was plainly the centre
of interest there, fell into the common ways of isolation. "He had little communication," writes
Mr. Lathrop, "with even the members of his family. Frequently his meals were brought and left
at his locked door, and it was not often that the four inmates of the old Herbert Street mansion
met in family circle. He never read his stories aloud to his mother and sisters, as might be
imagined from the picture which Mr. Fields draws of the young author reciting his new productions
to his listening family; though, when they met, he sometimes read older literature to them.
It was the custom in this household for the several members to remain very much by themselves;
the three ladies were perhaps nearly as rigorous recluses as himself; and, speaking of the
isolation which reigned among them, Hawthorne once said, 'We do not even live at our house!'"
He seldom went out by day, unless for long excursions in the country; an early sea bath on
summer mornings and a dark walk after supper, longer in the warm weather, shorter in the winter
season, were habitual, and a bowl of thick chocolate with bread crumbed into it, or a plate
of fruit, on his return prepared him for the night's work. Study in the morning, composition
in the afternoon, and reading in the evening, are described as his routine, but it is unlikely
that any such regularity ruled where times and seasons were so much at his own command. He
had no visitors and made no friends; hardly twenty persons in the town, he thought, were aware
of his existence; but he brought home hundreds of volumes from the Salem Athenaeum, and knew
the paths of the woods and pastures and the way along the beaches and rocky points, and he
had the stuff of his fantasy with which to occupy himself when nature and books failed to satisfy
him. At first there must have been great pleasure in being at home, for he had not really lived
a home life since he was fifteen years old, and he was fond of home; and, too, in the young
ambition to become a writer and his efforts to achieve success, if not fame, in fiction, and
in the first motions of his creative genius, there was enough to fill his mind, to provide
him with active interest and occupation, and to abate the sense of loneliness in his daily
circumstances: but as youth passed and manhood came, and yet fortune lagged with her gifts,
this existence became insufficient for him,--it grew burdensome as it showed barren, and depression
set in upon him like a chill and obscure fog over the marshes where he walked. This, however,
year dragging after year, was a slow process; and the kind of life he led, its gray and deadening
monotone, sympathetic though it was with his temperament, was seen by him better in retrospect
than in its own time.

It is singular that Hawthorne should have undertaken to live by his pen, or been allowed to
do so by his friends, as a practical way of life, but he was indulged at home, the young lord
of the family. "We were in those days," says Elizabeth, "almost absolutely obedient to him."
Occasionally he thought of going into his uncle's counting-room and so obtaining a business
and place in the world, but he never took this step. He probably drifted, more or less, into
authorship, partly through a dilatory reluctance to do anything else, and partly led on by
the hope of a success with some one of his tales which would justify him.

The first attempts he made in the craft are involved in some obscurity. He may have merely
carried over from college days what he then had in hand. At all events his sister Elizabeth,
from whom the information comes in respect to these details, remembered a little collection
which he had prepared for publication with the title "Seven Tales of my Native Land," and she
says that she read it in the summer of 1825; in that case these stories must have been written
at college, but her memory may have erred. She gives the names of two of them as "Alice Doane"
and "Susan Grey," and adds that he told her, while the volume was still in the stage of being
offered to publishers, that he would first "write a story which would make a smaller book,
and get it published immediately if possible, before the arrangements for bringing out the
'Tales' were completed." This was presumably "Fanshawe," which may also have been the novel
she recollected his writing to her about while at college.

"Fanshawe" [Footnote: Fanshawe. A Tale. Boston: Marsh & Capen, 362 Washington St. Press of
Putnam and Hunt, 1828. 12mo. Pp. 141.] was published in 1828 by Marsh and Capen, at Boston,
without the author's name but at his expense, one hundred dollars being the sum paid; it failed,
and Hawthorne looked on it with so much subsequent displeasure that he called in all the copies
he could find and destroyed them, and thus nearly succeeded in sinking the book in oblivion,
but the few copies which survived secured its republication after his death. The novel is brief,
with a melodramatic plot, well-marked scenes, and strongly contrasted character; the style
flows on pleasantly; but the book is without distinction. Like many a just graduated collegian,
Hawthorne had recourse to his academic experience in lieu of anything else, and in the setting
of the story and some of its delineation of character Longfellow recognized the strong suggestion
of Bowdoin days; in the same way the hero, Fanshawe, borrowed something from Hawthorne's own
temperament. The figure of the villain, too, adumbrates, though faintly, the type which engaged
Hawthorne's mind in later years. "Fanshawe" as a whole in all its scenes, whether in the house
of the old President, the tavern, the hut, or the outdoor encounters of the lovers and rivals,
is strongly reminiscent of Scott, the management being entirely in his manner; its low-life
tragedy, its romantic scenery, and its bookish humor, as well as the characterization in general,
are also from Scott; in fact, notwithstanding what Hawthorne had taken from his own observation
and feelings, this provincial sketch, for it is no more, is a Scott story, done with a young
man's clever mastery of the manner, but weak internally in plot, character, and dramatic reality.
It is as destitute of any brilliant markings of his genius as his undergraduate life itself
had been, and is important only as showing the serious care with which he undertook the task
of authorship. It is the only relic, except the shadowy "Seven Tales," of his literary work
in the first three years after leaving college. The "Tales" he is said to have burned; no better
publisher appearing, a young Salem printer, Ferdinand Andrews, undertook to bring them out,
but as he delayed the matter through lack of capital, Hawthorne, growing impatient and exasperated,
recalled the manuscript and destroyed it.

The example of Scott was, perhaps, the potent influence in fixing Hawthorne's attention on
a definite object, and incited him to seek in the history of his own country, and especially
in the colonial tradition of New England, which was so near at hand, the field of fiction.
He stored his mind, certainly, with the story of his own people during the two centuries since
the settlement, and prepared himself to describe its stirring events and striking characters
under the veil of imaginative history. The nature of his reading shows that this was a conscious
aim; and, besides, it was an opinion, loudly proclaimed and widely shared in that decade, that
American writers should look to their own country for their themes; Cooper was doing so in
fiction, and Longfellow felt this predilection in his choice of subject for verse. Salem was
a true centre of the old times; and a young imagination in that town and neighborhood, already
disposed to writing prose romance, would feel the charm of historical association and naturally
catch impulse from the past, especially if, as in the case of Hawthorne, the history of his
ancestors was inwoven with its good and evil. It is not surprising therefore that, as Hawthorne
had begun, though unsuccessfully, with tales of his native land, he should continue to work
the vein; and, to adopt what seems to be a reasonable inference, he now gathered from his materials
a new series which he knew as "Provincial Tales," in which it remains doubtful how much of
the old survived, for the burnt manuscripts of youth have something of the phoenix in their ashes.

The first trace of these is "The Young Provincial," an anonymous piece, [Footnote: It is unquestionable
that Hawthorne contributed to annuals and periodicals anonymous tales and sketches that he
never claimed, as he states in the preface to Twice-Told Tales and in a letter to Fields in
which he beseeches him not to revive them. The identification of such work, however, is beset
with much temptation to find a tale genuine, if it can be plausibly so represented, and in
few cases can the proof be conclusive. Mr. F. B. Sanborn presents the fullest list, all from
The Token, which he accepts as genuine, as follows: The Adventures of a Raindrop, 1828, The
Young Provincial, 1830, The Haunted Quack and The New England Village, 1831, My Wife's Novel,
1832, The Bald Eagle, 1833, The Modern Job, or The Philosopher's Stone, 1834. The correspondence
with Goodrich does not indicate that Hawthorne contributed to The Token before the issue for
1831. The Young Provincial seems to be the same sort of a tale as The Downer's Banner, as has
been intimated above: yet it would, perhaps, be more readily accepted, together with The Haunted
Quack and The Modern Job. The latest edition of Hawthorne includes all of these tales, given
above, except the first and last, but its editor does not vouch for their authenticity.] ascribed
to him on internal evidence and contributed to "The Token," an annual published at Boston,
for its issue of 1830. The story relates the adventures of a youthful Revolutionary soldier
who had handed down to his descendants a "grandfather's gun;" it tells of Bunker Hill, of imprisonment
at Halifax and of escape, and it may be from Hawthorne's pen. It must have been written early
in 1829, if not before, and it is noticed in the review of "The Token" in Willis's Boston periodical,
"The American Monthly Magazine" for September, 1829, where it is described as a "pleasing story,
told quite inartificially," and is illustrated by a brief extract. It may not be irrelevant
to observe that a similar "provincial tale" appeared in this number of the magazine, "The Downer's
Banner," and if it was not by the same youthful author, it shows that the same kind of subject
had singularly interested two writers in that neighborhood. It is, however, only in "The Token"
that Hawthorne can be further traced.

The editor of this annual, which was intended as a literary gift-book for Christmas, was S.
G. Goodrich, famous as "Peter Parley" in after days, and to him belongs the honor of being
Hawthorne's first literary friend, and he always remained a faithful one. He was a promoter
of publishers' enterprises, in that part of the field of literature which is distinctly pervaded
with business; and in it he was successful, as the millions of the Peter Parley books abundantly
attest. At this time he was sincerely interested, it must be believed, in furthering the interests
of American writers and artists, according to his lights and means, and Griswold, who was a
good judge, said of him, "It is questionable whether any other person has done as much to improve
the style of the book manufacture or to promote the arts of engraving." With such ambitions
he had begun, in 1828, the issue of the annual, which is now best remembered, and which in
its own day longest survived the changes of public taste. The nature of these volumes, of which
there were many in different publishing centres, is well described by a writer in Willis's
"Magazine" for 1829: "A few years ago, an elegant taste, joined, perhaps, to a love of 'filthy
lucre,' induced some English publishers to give to the world the first specimens of those souvenirs
and 'Forget Me Nots' which are now so common through our country. How beautiful they were at
their first appearance, the eagerness with which they were read will testify. How rapid was
their increase, may be seen by referring to the counters of every book-store. America, ready
and willing as she ever is to acknowledge the excellence, and imitate the example of the parent
country in every good thing, has imitated and improved upon the plan. We can now boast of a
species of literature, which is conducted almost wholly by young men, and which has merited
the affection, because it has developed the power of our native genius. Those who have made
their first essays in literature, through the medium of the pages of a Souvenir, will gain
confidence in proportion as they have tested their own strength. The American annuals do not
profess to be the works of the most finished or most accomplished writers of this country.
They should not be taken as specimens of what our literature is, but as indications of what
it may one day be. They are not the matured fruits, but the bright promise and blossoming of
genius; and thus far they have been an honor to the taste and talent of American writers, and
monuments of the swift progress of our artists towards excellence in their profession."

Such was the contemporary view of the annuals, and it is justified, perhaps, by the fact that
Longfellow, for example, was then contributing to the "Atlantic Souvenir" of Philadelphia,
the first of the brood, and that Hawthorne found in "The Token" the principal opportunity to
obtain a hearing for himself in his first productive years.

Mr. Goodrich, in his "Recollections," states that he sought out Hawthorne. "I had seen," he
says, "some anonymous publications which seemed to me to indicate extraordinary powers. I inquired
of the publishers as to the writer, and through them a correspondence ensued between me and
'N. Hawthorne.' This name I considered a disguise, and it was not till after many letters had
passed, that I met the author, and found it to be a true title, representing a very substantial
personage." This correspondence began, as nearly as can be judged, in 1829, and in the course
of it Hawthorne had already sent to Goodrich "The Young Provincial," if that is to be accepted
as by him, and also "Roger Malvin's Burial," and, apparently later than this last, at least
three other tales, "The Gentle Boy," "My Uncle Molineaux," and "Alice Doane." He had presented
these as specimens of the "Provincial Tales," for which he desired a publisher. Goodrich acknowledges
these, January 19, 1830, from Hartford, Connecticut, where he lived, and promises in the note
to endeavor to find a publisher for the book when he returns to Boston in April. He adds, "Had
'Fanshawe' been in the hands of more extensive dealers, I do believe it would have paid you
a profit;" from which it may be inferred that "Fanshawe" was the anonymous work which had attracted
Goodrich's attention. He praises the tales, and offers thirty-five dollars for "The Gentle
Boy" to be used in "The Token." The first letter from Hawthorne, in respect to the matter,
which has come to light, is on May 6, 1830, and is given in Derby's "Fifty Years."

"I send you the two pieces for 'The Token.' They were ready some days ago, but I kept them
in expectation of hearing from you. I have complied with your wishes in regard to brevity.
You can insert them (if you think them worthy a place in your publication) as by the author
of 'Provincial Tales,'--such being the title I propose giving my volume. I can conceive no
objection to your designating them in this manner, even if my tales should not be published
as soon as 'The Token,' or, indeed, if they never see the light at all. An unpublished book
is not more obscure than many that creep into the world, and your readers will suppose that
the 'Provincial Tales' are among the latter." The "two pieces" to which he refers were clearly
not members of the series he proposed to publish in the book, and perhaps they should be identified
as "Sights from a Steeple," certainly, and for the other either "The New England Village" or
"The Haunted Quack," both which, besides the first, were published in "The Token" for 1831,
and have been ascribed to Hawthorne on internal evidence of the same sort as that on which
"The Young Provincial" has been accepted.

Goodrich did not find a publisher for the "Provincial Tales," and Hawthorne allowed him to
use such as he desired for "The Token" for 1832. The publication of this annual, it should
be observed, was prepared for early in the preceding year, and the tales which it contained
must be regarded as at least a year old when issued. Thus, in respect to the issue for 1832,
just mentioned, Goodrich writes May 31, 1831: "I have made a very liberal use of the privilege
you gave me as to the insertion of your pieces in 'The Token.' I have already inserted four
of them; namely, 'The Wives of the Dead,' 'Roger Malvin's Burial,' 'Major Molineaux,' and 'The
Gentle Boy;'" and he adds that they are as good if not better than anything else he gets; and
in a later note, written on the publication of the volume, in October, he says, "I am gratified
to find that all whose opinion I have heard agree with me as to the merit of the various pieces
from your pen." In this issue, besides the four mentioned, the story "My Wife's Novel" has
also been attributed to Hawthorne.

The project of the "Provincial Tales" had by this time been abandoned, temporarily at least,
and the author's mind turned to other kinds of writing. He had already opened new veins in
attempting to sketch contemporary scenes, either after the fashion of the pleasant meditative
essay, such as "Sights from a Steeple," or else in the way of humorous description. The scenes
he looked down on, in fancy, in this first paper, were the roof-tops and streets and horizon
of Salem; but he had wandered in other parts of his native land also, though not widely, and
he used these journeys in his compositions. It is noticeable that Hawthorne always used all
his material, consumed it, and made stories, essays, and novels of it, except the slag. It
was his characteristic from youth. There is the same dubiousness about these journeys, his
earliest ventures in the world, as about his first attempts in the field of authorship. He
himself says, in the autobiographical notes he furnished to Stoddard, that he left Salem "once
a year or thereabouts," for a few weeks; and in his sketches there are traces of these excursions,
as at Martha's Vineyard, for example; but their times and localities are verifiable only to
a slight degree. It is stated that the fact that his uncles, the Mannings, were interested
in stage-lines gave him some privileges as a traveller, or perhaps this only gave occasion
for a journey now and then, in which he joined his uncles on some convenient business; thus,
it was in company with his uncle Samuel, that he was in New Hampshire in 1831, and visited
the Shaker community at Canterbury. Another known journey was in 1830, and took him through
Connecticut; and it is said, probably on conjecture, that it was at this time that he went
on, by the canal, to Niagara, and visited Ticonderoga on his return. If his writings, in which
he described these places, are to be taken literally, he even embarked for Detroit; but information
in respect to the whole Niagara excursion is of the scantiest. All that is known is that in
some way, during his long stay at Salem in these years, he made himself acquainted with portions
of Connecticut, Vermont, New York, and New Hampshire, to add to his knowledge of Massachusetts
and Maine; within this rather limited circle his wanderings were confined; and the period when
he went about with most freedom and vivacity of impression was the summer of 1830 and, perhaps,
the next year or two.

These experiences gave him the suggestion and in part the scene of his next compositions, "The
Canterbury Pilgrims" and "The Seven Vagabonds," the one a New Hampshire, the other a Connecticut
tale, and in Connecticut, too, is laid "The Bald Eagle," a humorous sketch of a reception of
Lafayette which failed to come off, attributed to Hawthorne on the same grounds as the other
doubtful pieces of these years; these three appeared in "The Token" for 1833, "The Seven Vagabonds"
as by the author of "The Gentle Boy," the others anonymously, and, in addition, that issue
also contained the historical sketch, "Sir William Pepperell," described as by the author of
"Sights from a Steeple." If "The Haunted Quack," which had already appeared in 1831, be regarded
as Hawthorne's, the journey by the canal which it records must have taken place as early as
1829, in order for the manuscript to have been ready in time for publication. The particular
times and stories, however, are of less importance; nor are these provincial travels noteworthy
except for the fact that Hawthorne found in them, whenever or wherever they occurred, suggestions
for his pen.

The idea which was the germ of his next conception for a book arose out of this country rambling
before the days of railroads. At the end of "The Seven Vagabonds," he represented himself as
taking up the character of an itinerant story-teller on the impulse of the moment. To this
he now returned, and proposed to write a series of tales on the thread of the adventures of
this vagrant, and call it "The Story-Teller." The work, such as he here conceived it, exists
only as a fragment, "Passages from a Relinquished Work," though he doubtless used elsewhere
the stories he intended to incorporate into it. In the young man as he is sketched in the opening
passage there is, notwithstanding the affectation of levity, a touch of Hawthorne's own position:--

"I was a youth of gay and happy temperament, with an incorrigible levity of spirit, of no vicious
propensities, sensible enough, but wayward and fanciful. What a character was this, to be brought
in contact with the stern old Pilgrim spirit of my guardian! We were at variance on a thousand
points; but our chief and final dispute arose from the pertinacity with which he insisted on
my adopting a particular profession; while I, being heir to a moderate competence, had avowed
my purpose of keeping aloof from the regular business of life. This would have been a dangerous
resolution, anywhere in the world; it was fatal, in New England. There is a grossness in the
conceptions of my countrymen; they will not be convinced that any good thing may consist with
what they call idleness; they can anticipate nothing but evil of a young man who neither studies
physic, law, nor gospel, nor opens a store, nor takes to farming, but manifests an incomprehensible
disposition to be satisfied with what his father left him. The principle is excellent, in its
general influence, but most miserable in its effect on the few that violate it. I had a quick
sensitiveness to public opinion, and felt as if it ranked me with the tavern-haunters and town-paupers,--with
the drunken poet, who hawked his own Fourth of July odes, and the broken soldier who had been
good for nothing since the last war. The consequence of all this was a piece of light-hearted
desperation."

The youth then takes up the character of the writer of "The Seven Vagabonds," saying, "The
idea of becoming a wandering story-teller had been suggested, a year or two before, by an encounter
with several merry vagabonds in a showman's wagon, where they and I had sheltered ourselves,
during a summer shower;" and he announces that he determined to follow that life, the account
of which he proceeds to give with this preliminary word of explanation:--

"The following pages will contain a picture of my vagrant life, intermixed with specimens,
generally brief and slight, of that great mass of fiction to which I gave existence, and which
has vanished like cloud-shapes. Besides the occasions when I sought a pecuniary reward, I was
accustomed to exercise my narrative faculty, wherever chance had collected a little audience,
idle enough to listen. These rehearsals were useful in testing the strong points of my stories;
and, indeed, the flow of fancy soon came upon me so abundantly, that its indulgence was its
own reward; though the hope of praise, also, became a powerful incitement. Since I shall never
feel the warm gush of new thought, as I did then, let me beseech the reader to believe, that
my tales were not always so cold as he may find them now. With each specimen will be given
a sketch of the circumstances in which the story was told. Thus my air-drawn pictures will
be set in frames, perhaps more valuable than the pictures themselves, since they will be embossed
with groups of characteristic figures, amid the lake and mountain scenery, the villages and
fertile fields, of our native land. But I write the book for the sake of its moral, which many
a dreaming youth may profit by, though it is the experience of a wandering story-teller."

He makes the acquaintance of another itinerant, a preacher, Eliakim Abbott, drawn after the
fashion of that crude grotesque which is found in Hawthorne's early work, and is not without
a reminiscence of Scott in the literary handling; and the two become fellows of the road, the
one with a sermon, the other with a story, and their fortune with their audiences is related.
The only adventure of note, however, is the appearance of the Story-Teller as an attraction
of a traveling theatrical company, by special engagement, announced by posters, which also
bear on a pasted slip of paper a notice of Eliakim Abbott's religious meeting. On this occasion
he recited with great applause the tale of "Mr. Higginbotham's Catastrophe." With this the
fragment ends.

It is plain that Hawthorne intended by this scheme to unite with his stories sketches of country
life and scenes as he had noticed their features in his wayside travels, and use the latter
as the background for his imaginative and fanciful work. These were the two sides of his literary
faculty, so far as he had tried his hand, and he would have the benefit of both in one work,
which would thereby gain variety and unity. The success of the experiment cannot be thought
striking, and it is doubtful how far he carried the actual composition of the intervening scenes.
He confided the plan to Goodrich, who did not encourage it, so far as can be judged, but took
the opening chapters to the editors of "The New England Magazine" on Hawthorne's behalf. This
periodical, which had three years before absorbed Willis's "Magazine," had been conducted on
somewhat grave and serious lines, as a kind of Boston cousin, as it were, of the "North American,"
and was now in a state of change. Mr. Buckingham relinquished the editorship, and the magazine
went into the hands of Dr. Samuel G. Howe and John O. Sargent. It was at this favorable moment
that Goodrich appeared with Hawthorne's manuscript; the piece was accepted; and it was published,
half in the first and half in the second number issued by the new editors, in November and
December, 1834. The connection proved a fortunate one for Hawthorne, and "The New England Magazine"
[Footnote: In the Riverside edition of Hawthorne's works a paper, Hints to Young Ambition,
which appeared in The New England Magazine, 1832, signed "H.," is included. The piece is one
of several, with the same signature, and there can he little hesitation in rejecting it, as
Goodrich would hardly have needed to introduce Hawthorne to a magazine to which he already
contributed. The other pieces are not in his vein, and "H." is a common signature in the periodicals
of the time. At all events, Hawthorne would have gone further afield for a pseudonym than the
initial of his own name, which he is not known ever to have used.] now became equally with
"The Token" a constant medium for the publication of his writings of all sorts. Park Benjamin,
who was soon associated with Howe and Sargent in the editorship, took sole charge in March,
1835, and was from the first, and always remained, a firm admirer of the new author's genius.
To him, next to Goodrich, Hawthorne owed his introduction to such readers as he then had.

If Hawthorne made any effort to break a way for himself in reaching the public, it has not
been traced, except that one letter exists, January 27, 1832, in which he offers his pen to
the "Atlantic Souvenir" of Philadelphia; but that annual was bought out by Goodrich the same
year and merged with "The Token," so that Hawthorne's venture only brought him back to the
old stand. In 1833 his connection with Goodrich appears to have been temporarily broken, as
"The Token" for 1834, which appeared that fall, contains nothing by him. For 1835 he contributed
to it "The Haunted Mind" and "The Mermaid, A Revery," now known as "The Village Uncle," anonymously,
and "Alice Doane's Appeal" as by the author of "The Gentle Boy." In "Youth's Keepsake" for
the same year appeared "Little Annie's Ramble." These stories were published in the fall of
1834, before the venture of "The Story-Teller." Early in 1835 he furnished for the next year's
"Token," 1836, "The Wedding Knell" and "The Minister's Black Veil" as by the author of "Sights
from a Steeple," and "The May-pole of Merry Mount" as by the author of "The Gentle Boy." What
there was left in his hands must have gone almost as a block to "The New England Magazine,"
and perhaps his stock of unused papers was thus exhausted. To complete the record, he published
in this magazine "The Gray Champion" as by the author of "The Gentle Boy," in January; "Old
News" anonymously, in February, March, and May; "My Visit to Niagara," in February; "Young
Goodman Brown," in April; "Wakefield," in May; "The Ambitious Guest," in June, and in the same
month, anonymously in both instances, "Graves and Goblins" and "A Bill from the Town Pump;"
"The Old Maid in the Winding Sheet," now known as "The White Old Maid," in July; "The Vision
of the Fountain," in August; "The Devil in Manuscript" as by "Ashley A. Royce," in November;
"Sketches from Memory" as by "A Pedestrian," in November and December. All these pieces, except
as stated above, are given as by the author of "The Gray Champion." It may fairly be thought
that he had emptied his desk of its accumulations, though a few tales may have been reserved
for Goodrich.

Hawthorne had now been before the public with increasing frequency for five years, but he had
made little impression, and his success as an author must have remained as doubtful to him
as at the start. Goodrich, in the passage already quoted from his "Recollections," went on
to describe him during this early time of their acquaintance, and shows how slight was his
progress in winning attention:--

"At this period he was unsettled as to his views; he had tried his hand in literature, and
considered himself to have met with a fatal rebuff from the reading world. His mind vacillated
between various projects, verging, I think, toward a mercantile profession. I combated his
despondence, and assured him of triumph if he would persevere in a literary career. He wrote
numerous articles which appeared in 'The Token;' occasionally an astute critic seemed to see
through them, and to discover the soul that was in them; but in general they passed without
notice. Such articles as 'Sights from a Steeple,' 'Sketches beneath an Umbrella,' 'The Wives
of the Dead,' 'The Prophetic Pictures,' now universally acknowledged to be productions of extraordinary
depth, meaning, and power, extorted hardly a word of either praise or blame, while columns
were given to pieces since totally forgotten. I felt annoyed, almost angry, indeed, at this.
I wrote several articles in the papers, directing attention to these productions, and finding
no echo to my views, I recollect to have asked John Pickering to read some of them, and give
me his opinion of them. He did as I requested; his answer was that they displayed a wonderful
beauty of style, with a kind of double vision, a sort of second sight, which revealed, beyond
the outward forms of life and being, a sort of Spirit World."

Park Benjamin, in a notice of "The Token" for 1836 published in "The New England Magazine,"
October, 1835, gave a single line to the author, speaking of him as "the most pleasing writer
of fanciful prose, except Irving, in the country;" and in November of the same year, in a review
of the same work, Chorley, the critic of the London "Athenaeum," commended his tales and gave
extracts from them. This was the first substantial praise of a nature to encourage the author.

In Hawthorne's own eyes the stories and sketches had become a source of depression, and the
difficulties he had met with in getting out a book had especially irritated him. It might be
thought, perhaps, that he had destroyed a good deal of his work, to judge by his own words,
but this seems unlikely, although he may have rewritten some of the earlier pieces. The tale
of "The Devil in Manuscript" is taken to be the autobiographical parable, at least, commemorating
the burning of the "Seven Tales of my Native Land;" but it was written some years later, and
reflects his general experience as a discouraged storyteller, and it contains touches of bitterness
more marked than occur elsewhere. Its personal character is emphasized by the hero's name,
"Oberon," a familiar signature Hawthorne used in his letters to his old college friend, Bridge.

These extracts set forth the mixed emotions of young authorship in a life-like manner. They
have the stamp of personal experience. A supplement to them is found in one of his more obscure
pieces, "The Journal of a Solitary Man," in which Hawthorne bids farewell to that eidolon of
himself which he had embodied as "Oberon." He describes the character as an imaginary friend,
from whose journals he gives extracts; but the veil thrown over his own personality is transparent.

"Merely skimming the surface of life, I know nothing, by my own experience, of its deep and
warm realities. I have achieved none of those objects which the instinct of mankind especially
prompts them to pursue, and the accomplishment of which must therefore beget a native satisfaction.
The truly wise, after all their speculations, will be led into the common path, and, in homage
to the human nature that pervades them, will gather gold, and till the earth, and set out trees,
and build a house. But I have scorned such wisdom. I have rejected, also, the settled, sober,
careful gladness of a man by his own fireside, with those around him whose welfare is committed
to his trust, and all their guidance to his fond authority. Without influence among serious
affairs, my footsteps were not imprinted on the earth, but lost in air; and I shall leave no
son to inherit my share of life, with a better sense of its privileges and duties, when his
father should vanish like a bubble; so that few mortals, even the humblest and the weakest,
have been such ineffectual shadows in the world, or die so utterly as I must. Even a young
man's bliss has not been mine. With a thousand vagrant fantasies, I have never truly loved,
and perhaps shall be doomed to loneliness throughout the eternal future, because, here on earth,
my soul has never married itself to the soul of woman.

"Such are the repinings of one who feels, too late, that the sympathies of his nature have
avenged themselves upon him. They have prostrated, with a joyless life and the prospect of
a reluctant death, my selfish purpose to keep aloof from mortal disquietudes, and be a pleasant
idler among care-stricken and laborious men. I have other regrets, too, savoring more of my
old spirit. The time has been when I meant to visit every region of the earth, except the poles
and Central Africa. I had a strange longing to see the Pyramids. To Persia and Arabia, and
all the gorgeous East, I owed a pilgrimage for the sake of their magic tales. And England,
the land of my ancestors! Once I had fancied that my sleep would not be quiet in the grave
unless I should return, as it were, to my home of past ages, and see the very cities, and castles,
and battle-fields of history, and stand within the holy gloom of its cathedrals, and kneel
at the shrines of its immortal poets, there asserting myself their hereditary countryman. This
feeling lay among the deepest in my heart. Yet, with this homesickness for the fatherland,
and all these plans of remote travel,--which I yet believe that my peculiar instinct impelled
me to form, and upbraided me for not accomplishing,-- the utmost limit of my wanderings has
been little more than six hundred miles from my native village. Thus, in whatever way I consider
my life, or what must be termed such, I cannot feel as if I had lived at all.

"I am possessed, also, with the thought that I have never yet discovered the real secret of
my powers; that there has been a mighty treasure within my reach, a mine of gold beneath my
feet, worthless because I have never known how to seek for it; and for want of perhaps one
fortunate idea, I am to die

  'Unwept, unhonored, and unsung.'"

"Oberon" is represented as in the position of the "Story-Teller," and leaves home because of
some fancied oppression; he visits Niagara, of which he gives some scenes as well as other
anecdotes of his pedestrian journey, but he falls ill and determines to return home to die.
As he approaches his birthplace he pleases himself with the fancy that there is some youth
there whom he can teach by the lesson of his life, and he moralizes in a vein in which self-criticism
may be read between the lines:--

"He shall be taught by my life, and by my death, that the world is a sad one for him who shrinks
from its sober duties. My experience shall warn him to adopt some great and serious aim, such
as manhood will cling to, that he may not feel himself, too late, a cumberer of this overladen
earth, but a man among men. I will beseech him not to follow an eccentric path, nor, by stepping
aside from the highway of human affairs, to relinquish his claim upon human sympathy. And often,
as a text of deep and varied meaning, I will remind him that he is an American."

Finally he describes the power he has obtained by the use of his imagination, in the view of
life:--

"I have already a spiritual sense of human nature, and see deeply into the hearts of mankind,
discovering what is hidden from the wisest. The loves of young men and virgins are known to
me, before the first kiss, before the whispered word, with the birth of the first sigh. My
glance comprehends the crowd, and penetrates the breast of the solitary man. I think better
of the world than formerly, more generously of its virtues, more mercifully of its faults,
with a higher estimate of its present happiness, and brighter hopes of its destiny."

These passages from "The Devil in Manuscript" and "The Journal of a Solitary Man" may fairly
be taken as a contemporary general account of Hawthorne's secret life in the years before his
own "Note-Books" begin. The latter afford rather a view of his existence, from day to day.
The earliest of them which has survived opens in the summer of 1835, and while containing scraps
of information that he had jotted down as in a commonplace book, and also brief memoranda of
ideas for tales and sketches, it also keeps record of his observations in his walks and drives,
and thus pictures his outward life. He lived at Salem still, in the habits of seclusion that
had always obtained in the house, and saw little of mankind. Society, if he sought it at all,
was found for him among common people at the tavern or by the wayside, and was of the sort
that he enjoyed on his summer journeys. But solitude was his normal state. This was indulged
in his own room; or else he took a morning or afternoon to wander out to the near Salem beaches
and points, or to the pleasant lanes of Danvers or across the river to the upland or seashore
of Beverly. He occasionally drove a dozen miles or more to Ipswich, Nahant, or Andover. What
he saw, however, was only rustic life of the countryside, or the natural views of wood and
sky and sea, with the nearer objects to attract particular attention, of which he has left
so many minute descriptions. His observation at such times, though without the naturalist's
preoccupation,--rather with the poet's or novelist's,--was as keen and detailed as Thoreau's.
These Note-Books, however, do not open his familiar life except as a record of changing seasons
and of detached thoughts to be worked up in fiction. Many of his later tales are found here
in the germ, in 1835 and for the year or two after; but the diary is not so much a confidant
as it afterward became.

The time had now come when he must make some further step in establishing himself in some means
of livelihood. He never showed much power of initiative, and at every stage was materially
aided by his friends in obtaining employment and position. In this instance it was Goodrich
again who gave him opportunity. It was not a great chance, but it was doubtless all Goodrich
had to offer. He procured for him the editorship of a small publication which undertook to
disseminate popular information, called "The American Magazine of Useful and Entertaining Knowledge,"
and published by the Bewick Company, at Boston, with which Goodrich had some connection through
his interests in engraving. His salary was to be five hundred dollars, and he entered on his
duties about the beginning of 1836. The change was welcomed by his friends, or such of them
as were still near enough to him to know of his affairs; and from this time his college mates,
Pierce, Cilley, and especially Bridge, interested themselves in his fortunes. Bridge, writing
from Havana, February 20, 1836, congratulated him, as did also Pierce from Washington, on the
intelligence concerning his "late engagement in active and responsible business," and particularly
on his having got "out of Salem," which he credits with "a peculiar dulness;" and in later
letters he continues to hearten him, subscribes for his magazine, reads and praises it, in
the most cordial and cheering way. But the event did not justify these hopes and prognostications
of a better fortune. The magazine was, after all, the merest hack-work. Hawthorne, with the
aid of his sister Elizabeth, wrote most of it, compiling the matter from books or utilizing
his own notes of travel. In it appeared, of such pieces as have found a place in his works,
"An Ontario Steamboat," "The Duston Family," "Nature of Sleep," "Bells," besides much that
has been suffered to repose in its scarce pages. The material, though conscientiously dealt
with according to the measure of time at his disposal, is the slightest in interest, and the
least re-worked from the raw state, of any of his writings. He had, however, little temptation
to do more for the magazine than its limited scope required. He found great difficulty in collecting
his salary, and for this he blames Goodrich, who had made promises of pay which he kept very
imperfectly. Hawthorne states that of forty-five dollars he was to receive on coming to Boston
he got only a small part, and on June 3, 1836, he received a notice, in answer to a dunning
letter, that the Bewick Company had made an assignment, and he would have to wait until the
settlement. Shortly after this he gave up the editorship, and returned to Salem. The incident
was unfortunate, as in the course of it he developed a great deal of irritation toward Goodrich,
who was his best friend in practical ways, and broke off communication with him. This, however,
did not last long; and Goodrich offered him the job of compiling a "Peter Parley" book, for
one hundred dollars. He wrote this, also with the aid of his sister Elizabeth, and gave her
the money. The volume was "Peter Parley's Universal History on the basis of Geography," [Footnote:
Peter Parley's Universal History on the basis of Geography. For the Use of Families. Illustrated
by Maps and Engravings. Boston: American Stationers' Company. John B. Russell, 1837. 12mo,
cloth. 2 vols., pp. 380, 374.] and was published in 1837, and had a very large sale, amounting
finally, it is said, to more than a million copies.

In the mean time, Hawthorne had found cause of complaint also in his relations with "The New
England Magazine." This periodical had come to an end in 1835, and at the close of that year
was merged in "The American Monthly Magazine" of New York, whither Park Benjamin, its editor,
went. It paid, according to its own statement, only one dollar a page for contributions, but
it appears to have been in arrears with Hawthorne at the time of the change. Bridge states
that when Hawthorne, in consequence, stopped writing for it, the editor "begged for a mass
of manuscript in his possession, as yet unpublished, and it was scornfully bestowed. 'Thus,'
wrote Hawthorne, 'has this man, who would be considered a Maecenas, taken from a penniless
writer material incomparably better than any his own brain can supply.'" In this Hawthorne,
if correctly reported, was scarcely just. Park Benjamin, who had a violent quarrel with Goodrich,
exempted Hawthorne from any adverse criticism, even when writing a short notice of "The Token,"
and always spoke well of him. The manuscripts he carried to New York could have been but few
and slight, unless they were burned in the fire which destroyed the archives of the "American
Monthly Magazine" not long afterwards. At all events, the only paper by Hawthorne in that magazine
appears to have been "Old Ticonderoga," a note of travel, published in February, 1836, unless
"The Journal of a Solitary Man," which did not appear till July, 1837, be added as one of the
left-over manuscripts, and also a paper, never yet attributed to him but which seems clearly
from his pen, "A Visit to the Clerk of the Weather," anonymously published in May, 1836. Whatever
the coolness was between Hawthorne and Benjamin, it was overcome by the end of the year, and
the quarrel was made up. In 1836, too, he kept his temper with Goodrich sufficiently to allow
him to contribute to "The Token" of 1837, published in the preceding fall, a group of tales,
eight in number: "Monsieur du Miroir," as by the author of "Sights from a Steeple;" "Mrs. Bullfrog,"
as by the author of "The Wives of the Dead;" "Sunday at Home" and "The Man of Adamant," both
as by the author of "The Gentle Boy," "David Swan, A Fantasy," "Fancy's Show Box, A Morality,"
and "The Prophetic Pictures," all anonymously; and "The Great Carbuncle," as by the author
of "The Wedding Knell." These papers constituted one third of the volume, and for them he was
paid a dollar a page, or one hundred and eight dollars, which may be regarded therefore as
the normal price he received from Goodrich. Two of these tales are on subjects set down in
his "Note-Book" of 1835; the others are perhaps earlier in conception. These tales were his
substantial work for the year.

They gave occasion for what appears to have been the first public mention of Nathaniel Hawthorne
as the author who had hitherto disguised himself under so many descriptions. It is not surprising
that his name was unknown, for he had sedulously suppressed it. His sister, referring to these
years, said, "He kept his very existence a secret so far as possible." He had never signed
an article in the twelve years since leaving college. He had preferred to become known in "the
author of Waverley" style, but the charm did not work. In "The Token" he was, in the main,
the author of "Sights from a Steeple" or "The Gentle Boy;" in "The New England Magazine" he
was the author of "The Gray Champion." But now his anonymity was to be dissipated in a friendly
if rude way. It was, doubtless, Park Benjamin, in New York, who wrote thus of these last tales
in "The Token," in "The American Monthly Magazine" for October, 1836:--

"The author of 'Sights from a Steeple,' of 'The Gentle Boy,' and of 'The Wedding Knell,' we
believe to be one and the same individual. The assertion may sound very bold, yet we hesitate
not to call this author second to no man in this country, except Washington Irving. We refer
simply to romance writing; and trust no wise man of Gotham will talk of Dewey, and Channing,
and Everett, and Verplanck. Yes, to us the style of NATHANIEL HAWTHORNE is more pleasing, more
fascinating, than any one's except their dear Geoffry Crayon! This mention of the real name
of our author may be reprobated by him. His modesty is the best proof of his true excellence.
How different does such a man appear to us from one who anxiously writes his name on every
public post! We have read a sufficient number of his pieces to make the reputation of a dozen
of our Yankee scribblers; and yet how few have heard the name above written! He does not even
cover himself with the same anonymous shield at all times; but liberally gives the praise,
which, concentrated on one, would be great, to several unknowns. If Mr. Hawthorne would but
collect his various tales and essays into one volume, we can assure him that their success
would be brilliant--certainly in England, perhaps in this country."

It was in this way that the world began to hear of Mr. Nathaniel Hawthorne, of Salem; but it
was still long before the public knew him. Meanwhile, at the very moment of the disclosure,
he was in the lowest ebb of discouragement, in spirits, that he ever knew. It is to this time
that his gloomiest memories attached themselves. He had tried to enter the world, he had even
tried to earn a living, and had failed. Cilley, his old college mate, was just elected to Congress
from Maine, Pierce was just elected Senator from New Hampshire, and Longfellow had found the
ways of literature as smooth as the primrose path to the everlasting bonfire. Hawthorne was
of a noble disposition, and glad of the fortunes that came to these of his circle in boyhood
at Bowdoin; but it was not in human nature to be oblivious of the difference in his own lot.
To this mood must be referred the dream he described afterwards as one that recurred through
life:--

"For a long, long while I have been occasionally visited with a singular dream; and I have
an impression that I have dreamed it ever since I have been in England. It is, that I am still
at college,--or, sometimes, even at school,--and there is a sense that I have been there unconscionably
long, and have quite failed to make such progress as my contemporaries have done; and I seem
to meet some of them with a feeling of shame and depression that broods over me as I think
of it, even when awake. This dream, recurring all through these twenty or thirty years, must
be one of the effects of that heavy seclusion in which I shut myself up for twelve years after
leaving college, when everybody moved onward, and left me behind."

Under another picture, he describes this same state in the preface to "The Snow Image," dedicated
to Bridge:--

"I sat down by the wayside of life, like a man under enchantment, and a shrubbery sprung up
around me, and the bushes grew to be saplings, and the saplings became trees, until no exit
appeared possible, through the entangling depths of my obscurity. And there, perhaps, I should
be sitting at this moment, with the moss on the imprisoning tree-trunks, and the yellow leaves
of more than a score of autumns piled above me, if it had not been for you. For it was through
your interposition--and that, moreover, unknown to himself--that your early friend was brought
before the public, somewhat more prominently than heretofore, in the first volume of 'Twice-Told
Tales.'"

Bridge had been, in fact, his only confidant from boyish days. To him he showed the misery
of "hope deferred" that then was in his heart, and to him allowed himself to speak in words
that went beyond his steady sense of the situation, though representing moments of low courage.
"I'm a doomed man," he wrote to him, "and over I must go."

It was under the impulse of the sight of this deep discouragement in Hawthorne, in 1836, that
this cheerful and sanguine friend made up his mind to find out why Hawthorne could not get
a volume of tales published. He applied to Goodrich for information, and received an answer,
October 20, 1836, in which it was stated that if a guarantee of two hundred and fifty dollars
were furnished by Bridge, an edition of one thousand copies, costing four hundred and fifty
dollars and paying Hawthorne a royalty of ten per cent, would be issued. Goodrich was not himself
a publisher, at that time, and he elsewhere says that he had previously attempted to have the
Stationers' Company, which now undertook the volume on Bridge's guarantee, publish it, but
without success; he adds that he relinquished his own rights to Hawthorne, who had sold the
tales to him so far as they had appeared in "The Token," and that he also joined in the bond
given by Bridge; but in these remarks he seems to be taking credit to himself, for the tales
were valueless to him and his property in them was of a sort not often claimed by an editor,
while Bridge took the real risk. This transaction was unknown to Hawthorne at the time, and
Bridge felt obliged to warn him not to be too grateful to Goodrich. A glance at the other letters
of this month shows that Bridge was almost alarmed by Hawthorne's depression, and endeavoring
in thoughtful ways to reassure him, as well as to bring him forward in public. "I have just
received your last," he writes, October 22, 1836, "and do not like its tone at all. There is
a kind of desperate coolness about it that seems dangerous. I fear you are too good a subject
for suicide, and that some day you will end your mortal woes on your own responsibility." The
prospect of the book, even, was not wholly an undoubted blessing to Hawthorne, now he had come
to its realization, and in December, on Christmas Day, the work being then in proofs, Bridge
writes to him again:--

"Whether your book will sell extensively may be doubtful; but that is of small importance in
the first one you publish. At all events, keep up your spirits till the result is ascertained;
and, my word for it, there is more honor and emolument in store for you, from your writings,
than you imagine. The bane of your life has been self-distrust. This has kept you back for
many years; which, if you had improved by publishing, would long ago have given you what you
must now wait a short time for. It may be for the best, but I doubt it.

"I have been trying to think what you are so miserable for. Although you have not much property,
you have good health and powers of writing, which have made, and can still make, you independent.

"Suppose you get but $300 per annum for your writings. You can, with economy, live upon that,
though it would be a tight squeeze. You have no family dependent upon you, and why should you
'borrow trouble'?

"This is taking the worst view of your case that it can possibly bear. It seems to me that
you never look at the bright side with any hope or confidence. It is not the philosophy to
make one happy.

"I expect, next summer, to be full of money, a part of which shall be heartily at your service,
if it comes."

Before the new volume went to press Hawthorne had made a connection, apparently on the editor's
initiative, with S. Gaylord Clark's "Knickerbocker Magazine," and contributed to it, in the
January number, "The Fountain of Youth," now known as "Dr. Heidegger's Experiment"; and in
the opening months of the year he was engaged in preparing his usual group of articles for
the next "Token." Goodrich had also offered to him a new "Peter Parley" book, on the manners
and customs of all nations, for three hundred dollars, but this Hawthorne seems to have declined.

"Twice-Told Tales" [Footnote: Twice-Told Tales. By Nathaniel Hawthorne. Boston: American Stationers'
Co. John B. Russell, 1837. 12mo, cloth. Pp. 334. It contained eighteen pieces only, out of
the thirty-six undoubtedly by Hawthorne published up to this time, to neglect all others which
have been ascribed to him during this period; and it must reflect his own judgment of what
was best in his work. Far as it was from being a complete collection, it was large and varied
enough to afford an adequate experiment of the public taste, and it included all those articles,
whether tale or essay, which had made him known in the circle of his readers. The reception
of the volume was, he thought, cool, but it sold somewhat from the first, and within two months
six or seven hundred copies had been disposed of. Goodrich states that it "was deemed a failure
for more than a year, when a breeze seemed to rise and fill its sails, and with it the author
was carried on to fame and fortune." Bridge was much pleased with the success of his venture,
and when he met Goodrich, in April, some of his good feeling overflowed upon him: "I like him
very much better than before," he wrote. "He told me that the book was successful. It seemed
that he was inclined to take too much credit to himself for your present standing, on the ground
of having early discovered and brought you forward. But, on the whole, I like him much." Hawthorne's
view of Goodrich is contained in a letter written to his sister-in-law, Elizabeth Peabody,
twenty years later:--

"As regards Goodrich's accounts of the relations between him and me, it is funny enough to
see him taking the airs of a patron; but I do not mind it in the least, nor feel the slightest
inclination to defend myself or be defended. I should as soon think of controverting his statement
about my personal appearance (of which he draws no very lovely picture) as about anything else
that he says. So pray do not take up the cudgels on my behalf; especially as I perceive that
your recollections are rather inaccurate. For instance, it was Park Benjamin, not Goodrich,
who cut up the 'Storyteller.' As for Goodrich, I have rather a kindly feeling towards him,
and he himself is a not unkindly man, in spite of his propensity to feed and fatten himself
on better brains than his own. Only let him do that, and he will really sometimes put himself
to some trouble to do a good-natured act. His quarrel with me was, that I broke away from him
before he had quite finished his meal, and while a portion of my brain was left; and I have
not the slightest doubt that he really felt himself wronged by my so doing. Really, I half
think so too. He was born to do what he did, as maggots to feed on rich cheese."

There is something too little generous in this. The record shows beyond any cavil that Goodrich
was the first and most constant friend of Hawthorne in the way of helping him to get his work
before the public; he was also interested in him, thoughtful for him, and gave him hack work
to do, which, though it be a lowly is a true service, however unwelcome the task may be in
itself; and he used such influence as he had in introducing Hawthorne to other employers and
to publishers. During these twelve years it may fairly be said that Goodrich was the only person,
not a relative, who cared for Hawthorne's genius or did anything for him until Park Benjamin
appeared as a second in the periodical world and Horatio Bridge came to the rescue as a business
friend. It is true that Goodrich did not succeed in exploiting his author; but he paid him
the market price and gave him his chance, and after all those days were not for Goodrich what
our days have since become for men of his calibre. Advertisement was not then the tenth Muse.

If the papers were "cool," as Hawthorne thought, there was a word of comfort here and there
in the periodicals. "The American Monthly Magazine," recalling its announcement of Hawthorne
as the author of these tales in the preceding fall, took occasion in a notice of "The Token"
for 1838 to flatter itself that the new volume was due to its own suggestion; and the writer,
who is presumably Park Benjamin, renews his old praise. A later notice of the book itself,
ascribed by Mr. Lathrop to Charles Fenno Hoffman, appeared in March, 1838, and, while somewhat
ineffective and sentimental, discovers at the end the right new word to say: "His pathos we
would call New England pathos, if we were not afraid it would excite a smile; it is the pathos
of an American, of a New Englander. It is redolent of the images, objects, thoughts, and feelings
that spring up in that soil and nowhere else." It was, however, to Longfellow that both Bridge
and Hawthorne looked to help his old college mate's book with the criticism that would have
the accent of good taste and literary authority, and would carry weight in those higher social
circles where fame was lost and won, at least as was then believed. Hawthorne sent him the
volume as soon as it was issued, with a note regretting that they were not better acquainted
at college and expressing his gladness in Longfellow's success as a writer, author of "Outre-Mer,"
and also in obtaining his Harvard professorship; and some three months later he followed this
with a letter, so characteristic and valuable autobiographically that it cannot be passed over,
and interesting also as beginning that easy and amiable friendliness which continued between
them unbroken thereafter:--

"Not to burden you with my correspondence, I have delayed a rejoinder to your very kind and
cordial letter, until now. It gratifies me that you have occasionally felt an interest in my
situation; but your quotation from Jean Paul about the 'lark's nest' makes me smile. You would
have been much nearer the truth if you had pictured me as dwelling in an owl's nest; for mine
is about as dismal, and like the owl I seldom venture abroad till after dusk. By some witchcraft
or other--for I really cannot assign any reasonable why and wherefore--I have been carried
apart from the main current of life, and find it impossible to get back again. Since we last
met, which you remember was in Sawtell's room, where you read a farewell poem to the relics
of the class,--ever since that time I have secluded myself from society; and yet I never meant
any such thing, nor dreamed what sort of life I was going to lead. I have made a captive of
myself, and put me into a dungeon, and now I cannot find the key to let myself out,--and if
the door were open, I should be almost afraid to come out. You tell me that you have met with
troubles and changes. I know not what these may have been, but I can assure you that trouble
is the next best thing to enjoyment, and that there is no fate in this world so horrible as
to have no share in either its joys or sorrows. For the last ten years, I have not lived, but
only dreamed of living. It may be true that there have been some unsubstantial pleasures here
in the shade, which I might have missed in the sunshine, but you cannot conceive how utterly
devoid of satisfaction all my retrospects are. I have laid up no treasure of pleasant remembrances
against old age; but there is some comfort in thinking that future years can hardly fail to
be more varied and therefore more tolerable than the past.

"You give me more credit than I deserve, in supposing that I have led a studious life. I have
indeed turned over a good many books, but in so desultory a way that it cannot be called study,
nor has it left me the fruits of study. As to my literary efforts, I do not think much of them,
neither is it worth while to be ashamed of them. They would have been better, I trust, if written
under more favorable circumstances. I have had no external excitement,--no consciousness that
the public would like what I wrote, nor much hope nor a passionate desire that they should
do so. Nevertheless, having nothing else to be ambitious of, I have been considerably interested
in literature; and if my writings had made any decided impression, I should have been stimulated
to greater exertions; but there has been no warmth of approbation, so that I have always written
with benumbed fingers. I have another great difficulty in the lack of materials; for I have
seen so little of the world that I have nothing but thin air to concoct my stories of, and
it is not easy to give a lifelike semblance to such shadowy stuff. Sometimes through a peep-hole
I have caught a glimpse of the real world, and the two or three articles in which I have portrayed
these glimpses please me better than the others.

"I have now, or shall soon have, a sharper spur to exertion, which I lacked at an earlier period;
for I see little prospect but that I shall have to scribble for a living. But this troubles
me much less than you would suppose. I can turn my pen to all sorts of drudgery, such as children's
books, etc., and by and by I shall get some editorship that will answer my purpose. Frank Pierce,
who was with us at college, offered me his influence to obtain an office in the Exploring Expedition;
but I believe that he was mistaken in supposing that a vacancy existed. If such a post were
attainable, I should certainly accept it; for, though fixed so long to one spot, I have always
had a desire to run round the world.... I intend in a week or two to come out of my owl's nest,
and not return till late in the summer,--employing the interval in making a tour somewhere
in New England. You who have the dust of distant countries on your 'sandal-shoon' cannot imagine
how much enjoyment I shall have in this little excursion."

Longfellow's notice of "Twice-Told Tales" appeared in the July number of "The North American
Review," and gave perhaps more pleasure to Hawthorne than he had hoped for; and in acknowledging
it he mentions, with a home-touch that carries more gratitude than a score of golden phrases,
the happiness that "my mother, my two sisters, and my old maiden aunt" have had in it. The
notice itself is elegant, kindly, warm even, with the old-fashioned academic distinction of
manner, through which the young poet's picturesque fancy keeps playing, like a flutter of light;
it gives one a strange sense of old-world youthfulness to read it now. Its characteristic passages,
apart from this glamour, are its praise of the lucid style and of the home-bred quality, "the
nationality" of the Tales: "The author has chosen his themes among the traditions of New England,
the dusty legends of 'the good old colony times when we lived under a king.' This is the right
material for story." But, notwithstanding the good-will of Hawthorne's few friends, and this
handsome treatment by that one of them who had the greatest opportunity to applaud him, his
place was not yet won.

Meanwhile, his political friends had not been idle. The problem of a livelihood, of an active
share in the world's business, which Hawthorne now sincerely desired, was not likely to be
much advanced by the publication of this volume. In any case, it would seem that Hawthorne's
friends were agreed that what he needed was to be got into an entirely different set of surroundings,
to have a change of scene. It was, perhaps, with some such idea that Pierce suggested to him
to join the South Sea Exploring Expedition, then being planned by Reynolds, as historian. There
is something humorous, unconscious though it was, in sending Hawthorne from the monotony and
loneliness of Salem to seek society in the polar regions, though no hint of it appears in the
correspondence. The scheme appealed to Hawthorne, however, and he was desirous to go; but though
his friends were active in his interest, and brought the Maine and New Hampshire delegations
to support his candidacy, success was doubtful, and, the expedition being temporarily abandoned,
the plan came to nothing. On its failure Hawthorne went to visit Bridge at his home in Augusta,
Maine, and passed the month of July with him very happily, as he tells at large in his Note-Books
of that period.

On his return to Salem at midsummer he could hardly have flattered himself on any perceptible
change in his position. He fell into the old life of rambling about the country and writing
new tales; and, except that he was in communication with his old friends, Bridge, Pierce, and
Cilley, and occasionally saw them in Boston, he was as much isolated and without prospects
as ever. The connection he had established with "The Knickerbocker Magazine" he had kept up
by contributing to it "A Bell's Biography" as by the author of "Twice-Told Tales," in March,
and he now published, in the September issue, "Edward Fane's Rosebud" anonymously. The publication
of the book had attracted to him the notice of the new "Democratic Review," edited by John
O'Sullivan, a young fellow of enterprise, spirits, and an Irish charm, who had solicited Hawthorne
to contribute to it, early in April. In reply to this application, presumably, "A Toll Gatherer's
Day," as by the author of "Twice-Told Tales," appeared in the October number. The stories which
Hawthorne had prepared in the spring for "The Token" of 1838 now came out in the fall of 1837,
five in number: two of them, "Peter Goldthwaite's Treasure" and "The Shaker Bridal" as by the
author of the "Twice-Told Tales," and three anonymously, "Night Scenes under an Umbrella,"
"Endicott and the Red Cross," and "Sylph Etheredge." He still persistently neglected to put
his own name to his work. There was a reason for his anonymity in "The Token," but elsewhere
he continued his old custom, and was to be known habitually only under the style "The Author
of 'Twice-Told Tales,'" which he adopted henceforth. To this time belong some further traces
of a more varied mixing with society in Salem than he had hitherto shown. He attended the meetings
of a club at Miss Burley's, where the transcendental group appears to have gathered, and among
them Jones Very. The most singular episode of the time, however, is one that would hardly be
credited, had it not been mentioned by those who should have known the truth. It is said that
Hawthorne's sympathies were so engaged by a lady who confided to him the injurious treatment
she alleged she had suffered from an acquaintance that he challenged the man to a duel; he
went to Washington for the purpose, and was only withdrawn from the affair, under the advice
of Cilley and Pierce, by the discovery that he had been practiced upon by the lady, who had
been led on by a spirit of mischief or malice to deceive him, there being no basis for the
affair. A dark turn is given to the incident by the suggestion that it was the citing of this
example of Hawthorne's to his friend Cilley which persuaded the latter to enter on the duel
with Graves, in which he lost his life not long after these events. Bridge, however, denies
that this was the case, and he should have known. Just when this incident occurred is not stated;
but Hawthorne's solitude in Salem must have been less complete than has been represented in
order for it to occur at all; and it must be believed that he had at all times associates,
whom he met in one way and another, both men and women, however small the circle.

The period of twelve years which he used to refer to as the time of his isolation in Salem
had now come to an end; but he remained in the old house for some time longer, though with
a difference in his mood and life. The habit of seclusion and the sense of separation from
the world had been somewhat broken up by the rally that his college friends, led by Bridge,
had made for him and the feeling of renewed companionship with them, as well as by his appearance
before the public in his own right as the author of "Twice-Told Tales;" the old state of affairs,
however, was not ended by these things, but by a more vital matter. There can be no doubt that
in his own mind the acquaintance and growing intimacy which now sprang up between himself and
Sophia Peabody coincided with the disappearance of the solitary depression of these years,--for
him the twelve years ended when he first saw this small, graceful, intensely alive invalid,
dressed in a simple white wrapper, who had come down from her room to meet him in the family
parlor. She might seem, indeed, like himself, rather a "visitant" than an inhabitant of this
planet, and their courtship not unlike one of his own stories of half immaterial lovers who
go hand in hand, with sentiments for sentences and great heedlessness of mortal matters, to
an idyllic union of hearts. He rose, on her entrance, to greet her, and looked at her with
great intentness; and it immediately occurred to her sister that he would fall in love with her.

The narrative of this love-making has been very fully told, and in the most lifelike way, since
the characters have been allowed to speak for themselves in their diaries and letters. It is
a story so touched with delicacies, and with such shades of humor, too, as to defy any re-telling;
even to outline it seems crude, because the effect lies all in the details of trifles, phrases,
and spontaneous things. The Peabody family was of a type that flourished in that period, as
good as was ever produced on this soil, with the most sterling qualities, and blending an intellectual
culture of transcendental kinship with practical and hospitable duties. The home, which was
one of very moderate means, was characterized by a moral high-mindedness pervading its life,
and by those literary and artistic tastes then spreading in the community, which, though it
is easy to smile at them in a vein of latter-day superiority, were everywhere the signs of
a nascent intellectual life among our people. In this case, the fruits are the best comment
on the home, for of the three daughters, the eldest, Elizabeth, passed a much honored and long
life as a teacher in Boston, the friend of every good cause; the second, Mary, became the wife
of Horace Mann; and the third, Sophia, the wife of Hawthorne. The Peabodys had been neighbors
of the Hawthornes in much earlier years, and the elder children had been little playmates together;
but the family had removed from Salem, and came back again in 1828. It was not, however, till
1837, on the publication of "Twice-Told Tales," that Elizabeth Peabody recognized in the author
the same person she had known as a child. She took steps to renew the acquaintance with his
sisters, and so to meet him again, till by many little attentions, notes, books, walks, flowers,
and whatever she could invent, she succeeded in establishing an interchange of social civility
between the two houses. She affords, in her recollections, the best glimpse of Hawthorne's
mother. "Madame Hawthorne," she says, "always looked as if she had walked out of an old picture,
with her antique costume, and a face of lovely sensibility and great brightness--for she did
not seem at all a victim of morbid sensibility, notwithstanding her all but Hindoo self-devotion
to the manes of her husband. She was a woman of fine understanding and very cultivated mind.
But she had very sensitive nerves." Elizabeth, Hawthorne's sister, was strong-minded but abnormally
retired, jealous of her brother, and not much disposed to have him stolen out of the house.
Louisa was more companionable, and with his mother would sit with Hawthorne after tea; and
there was an old maiden aunt flitting about in the little garden, apparently as recluse as
the rest. With these feminine members of the household Elizabeth Peabody made friends, and
though a year elapsed in the process, she then had her reward in receiving Hawthorne and his
sisters, who one evening came to call. She ran upstairs to her sister, exclaiming, "Oh, Sophia,
you must get up and dress and come down! The Hawthornes are here, and you never saw anything
so splendid as he is,--he is handsomer than Lord Byron!" But Sophia did not come down, and
it was only on the second call that the two met as has been described.

Sophia Peabody was at this time twenty-six years old, having been born in 1811, and had been
an invalid through her girlhood; she was afflicted with an acute nervous headache which lasted
uninterruptedly, says her son, from her twelfth to her thirty-first year, though the pain was
not so severe, her sister remarks, but that she could sometimes read. She had received her
education at home, mainly from her sister, who kept a school in the house, and in spite of
her ill-health had many and varied acquisitions. She read Latin, Greek, and Hebrew, and was
somewhat familiar with history. Passages in her journal show the character and range of her
reading, which was of that strangely mixed sort that belonged to the notion of culture in those
days; thus, for instance, in her twentieth year, she records having read on one day De Gerando,
Fenelon, St. Luke and Isaiah, Young, Addison, and four comedies of Shakspere, besides doing
some sewing. She was a good French and Italian scholar. Filled with intellectual enthusiasm
and ambition as she was, her sensibilities seem rather to have been roused by natural beauty,
effects of sky and weather and color, and her active powers took the direction of art; she
sketched, painted, and modeled in clay. In 1832 she had gone to Cuba with her mother for three
years, and received some benefit from the climate. She had especially practiced horseback-riding
there, of which she was fond. No permanent improvement, however, had followed, on her return
to Salem in 1835. When Hawthorne came to know her, she was living a half-invalid life, taking
her meals in her own room, which she had fitted up with artistic prettiness, and yet suffering
the full transcendental tide of culture and emotion. Perhaps no single passage can better illustrate
her mind and feelings than a description of Emerson's call in the spring of 1838, which she
writes to her sister, whom, at an earlier time, he had taught Greek:--

"We had an exquisite visit from Waldo. It was the warbling of the Attic bird. The gleam of
his diffused smile; the musical thunder of his voice; his repose, so full of the essence of
life; his simplicity--just think of all these, and of my privilege in seeing and hearing him.
He enjoyed everything we showed him so much! He talked so divinely to Raphael's Madonna del
Pesce! I vainly imagined I was very quiet all the while, preserving a very demure exterior,
and supposed I was sharing his oceanic calm. But the next day I was aware that I had been in
a very intense state. I told Mary, that night after he had gone, that I felt like a gem; that
was the only way I could express it. I don't know what Mary hoped to get from him, but I was
sure of drinking in that which would make me paint Cuban skies better than even my recollections
could have made me, were they as vivid as the rays of the sun in that sunniest of climates.
He made me feel as Eliza Dwight did once, when she looked uncommonly beautiful and animated.
I felt as if her beauty was all about the room, and that I was in it, and therefore beautiful
too. It seemed just so with Waldo's soul-beauty."

She had been in communication with others of the leading spirits of that day besides Emerson.
Dr. Channing and Allston sent her messages, kindly and flattering, about her drawings and painting.
She had copied some of Allston's pictures. Her studio was the centre of her life; and there
her friends "glided in," to use her phrase, with roses and columbines, little girls came to
take peeps at its wonders, and from it came the sunshine of the house. Here, to give some further
trifling indications, she described herself, after a visit of Hawthorne, as feeling "quite
lark-like, or like John of Bologna's Mercury;" or she indulged one of her "dearest visions,"
which was "to get well enough to go into prisons and tell felons I have sympathy for them,
especially women;" or, when Hawthorne called, lamented that she should have to smooth her hair,
and dress, "while he was being wasted downstairs." She felt his attractive power from the first,
and was happy in his attentions, in the walks they took, in their visits to Miss Burley's weekly
meetings, in the picture of Ilbrahim, "The Gentle Boy," which she made for him, in her story,
"Edward Randolph's Portrait," which he wrote for her, in the columbines and tulips that strewed
the way of love-making, and, in brief, in the thousand trifles of the old story. Hawthorne,
on his part, was equally attracted in his different ways, and responded to the vivacity and
ebullience of this intense feminine nature disclosed to him in the live woman who had met him,
as if coming out of a vision, on life's road. The spring budded and flowered into summer, and
when he took his habitual journey into the world,--this time into Berkshire and Vermont, from
July 23 to September 24,--meaning, as he told her, to cut himself wholly away from every one,
so that even his mother should not know his whereabouts, it is not unlikely that he was desirous
of this solitude to think it all over.

They became engaged at the close of the year, though the matter was kept a profound secret,
there being apparently some apprehension that his mother would not approve of it. His sister
Elizabeth, was, perhaps, not very cordial about it, also, but there was, as it proved, no occasion
for anxiety. It might well have seemed imprudent for Hawthorne, whose worldly success had been
slight, to marry an invalid wife. Fortune, however, was not wholly unkind, and George Bancroft,
whose attention had been called to Hawthorne's needs, gave him an appointment at the Boston
Custom House as weigher and gauger, at a salary of twelve hundred dollars. It was this opportunity,
possibly, which emboldened Hawthorne to take the final step; and marriage would be hoped for,
should this experiment of entering on a fixed employment prove successful.

During the progress of this courtship, to complete the chronicle of Hawthorne's literary publications,
he had written the carrier's address, "Time's Portraiture," for "The Salem Gazette," January
2, 1838, the home paper which had made him known to his fellow-townsmen by reprinting "The
Fountain of Youth," in the preceding March; and for the same paper he wrote the address for
the following year, January 1, 1839, "The Sister Years." He had also contributed to "The American
Monthly Magazine," for January, 1838. an article under his own name on his friend, Thomas Green
Fessenden, a Maine politician who had recently died; and to the same periodical, for March,
"The Three-fold Destiny" under the old pseudonym of Ashley Allen Royce. It was, however, "The
Democratic Review" which served as the principal channel of publication. It contained successively
"Footprints on the Beach," January; "Snowflakes," February; "Howe's Masquerade," May; "Edward
Randolph's Portrait," July; "Lady Eleanore's Mantle," "Chippings with a Chisel," and a sketch
of Jonathan Cilley, his friend who had just been shot by Graves in a duel, all in September;
and these tales he signed as by The Author of "Twice-Told Tales." The Province House series
was concluded by "Old Esther Dudley," in this same periodical, April, 1839, and to this he
affixed his own name for the first time. "The Lily's Quest" had appeared, January 19, 1839.
in "The Southern Rose," published at Charleston, South Carolina. Here the first stage of his
literary career ended.

He was now to leave that chamber under the eaves, in which these years, lengthened to fourteen
now, had been spent, but not without a farewell. Here he had written, in 1835, "In this dismal
chamber fame was won." A dismal sort of fame he thought it then.

This sentiment always continued to play about this room, and whenever he returned to it he
was apt to set down some word of memory. In one passage he even describes it as a shrine of
literary pilgrimage, and mentions, with that well-known touch, half fantastic, half grotesque,
its various articles of furniture,--the washstand, the mahogany-framed glass, the pine table,
the flag-bottomed chair, the old chest of drawers, the closet, the worn-out shoe-brush, imagining
the thoughts of the pilgrim on beholding these relics. It was the type for him of the old life
of loneliness, of disappointment, of household gloom; but it was also the place where he had
spent those "tranquil and not unhappy years," of which he afterwards said these early tales
were the memorials; and, however the room might darken in comparison with the happiness of
his married life, his last thought in regard to it was that contained in a letter written late
in life: "I am disposed to thank God for the gloom and chill of my early life, in the hope
that my share of adversity came then, when I bore it alone."

III.

WEIGHER, GAUGER, AND FARMER.

Early in January, 1839, Hawthorne took up his new duties as weigher and gauger in the Boston
Custom House. He wrote very cheerfully to Longfellow that he had no reason to doubt his capacity
to fulfill his duties, since he had not yet learned what they were, and he indulges his humor
in fancying imaginary little essays which he will write in the unoccupied time he pleasantly
anticipates will be his lot. He was glad to have a material task to do, something with the
stubbornness of fact in its resistance, a practical duty such as belongs in the ordinary lives
of men. This desire to come out of his old way of existence, with its preoccupation with the
imaginary world, had become a strong and rooted feeling, a fixed idea. "If I could only make
tables," he said, "I should feel myself more of a man." In the bustle of the wharves he felt
himself in touch with the world's business, and he took hold of his work with interest and
vigor as well as with that conscientious fidelity which belonged to his character. Bancroft,
a few months later, told Emerson that he was "the most efficient and best of the Custom House
officers," and Mr. Lathrop says that he "used to make it a point in all weathers to get to
the wharf at the earliest possible hour," so that the laborers, who were employed by the hour,
might not lose their time. The life he led is fully described in his own journals, with all
its details of shipping business, of the sailors and laborers and their tasks, of the salt,
salt fish, oil, iron, molasses, and other inelegant merchandise, and the day's work in its
various aspects of character, things, and weather. Hawthorne's powers of observation, which
he had previously exercised in the taverns of New England and along his native roadside and
beaches, were now fully occupied and newly animated with the novelty of the scene and his part
in it. He made these careful notes almost by instinct, but after all, they were of curiously
little use to him; it would seem rather that they gave his mind occupation in the intervals
of his imaginative creation; they were a resource to him like the recreation of a walk; they
represent the vacant and idle times of his genius; and for this reason his observations, which
are in the main a kind of admirable reporting, afford a well-nigh complete setting for his
life, and constitute an external autobiography. He is hardly to be truly seen apart from them.

At the end of six months he had begun to feel the wearisome drag upon his spirits which was
to be expected from toilsome days. Practical life as a sort of vacation was welcome, but as
it became the continuing business of his time, and that other world of the artistic faculty
was now, in turn, known only by visiting glimpses, the look of the facts changed. At first,
no doubt, the outdoor occupation and the having to do with sea and harbor life, for which he
had an hereditary affection, were important elements in his happiness; and the association
with rough and hardy men, whose contact with life was primitive and had the genuineness and
health of such occupations, was the kind of human companionship which he felt most naturally
and pleasurably. But the wearing in of the facts upon him is seen in the way in which the blackness
of coal and the whiteness of salt begin to color the page, until it would seem as if he handled
and saw no other objects, and also in the comfort that the cold sea-wind, and freshening waves,
and the horizon of cloud and green are to him.

He looks out over the waters. He is convinced that "Christian's burden consisted of coal,"
and he takes comfort in salt: "Salt is white and pure--there is something holy in salt." Yet
this tone was not constant, and from time to time he shows something of his first appreciation
and enjoyment of the element of labor and reality in the experience.

The truth was that Hawthorne led a life apart in his own genius, and this life of the spirit
rose out of his daily and habitual existence, or flowed through it like a hidden stream, and
did not mingle with the tide of the hours as they passed. He felt the need of a fuller, earthly,
practical life, a real life, as he would have called it by contrast with the impalpable things
of his genius, and sought it in outward employments; but in these, when his spirit awoke, he
felt himself a captive, and defrauded of that higher life of the soul; and after the day's
work or the year's labor was over, he could not be content with the fact that it had been,
and had served its purpose, and was gone, but he still was compelled to ask how it had served
this higher life, in what ways it had fed the spirit which should be master of all the days
of one's life, and he found no satisfactory answer except the crude one that possibly his experience
and observation might be useful, though doubtfully, as material for the books that were to
be. After all he was not content with practical life as an end; it was a means only, such was
the necessity of his constitution; he felt its interference with his creative faculty and he
was far from being convinced that he had gained anything from it which would be fruitful when
he should find time and strength to write again. The leisure he had fondly anticipated was
only a dream. He had to work too hard.

During these two years, from January, 1839, to April, 1841, the other part of Hawthorne's life
lay in his companionship with Sophia Peabody. At first, communication was mostly by letters;
but the Peabodys removed from Salem to Boston in 1840, and after that the two lovers--for they
were lovers in the most simple sense--met constantly. The memorials of the time, touching as
they are in their intimacy of feeling, have that essential privacy which best bespeaks a noble
nature. The exchanges of confidences, the little gifts, such as the two pictures which she
sent him and which he always held so preciously in his affection, the trifles of lovers' talk,
like his confession that he always washed his hands before reading her letters, the quiet,
firm advice, the consolations, the happy praise he renders her,--all these belong to the love-story,
if it must needs be told. But, besides this, Hawthorne felt toward this love of his married
life in a peculiar way not often so purely disclosed; there were touches of solemnity in it,
something not of this world; there was that sense of what can be described only as sacredness,
which he intimates and in part reveals as a thing never absent from his heart, whether with
her or away from her. Love had come to him, not in his youth, but after the years of solitude
had ripened both heart and imagination,--a man's love; it filled his whole nature, and with
it went a feeling of glad release from the past, of the coming of a freeing power bringing
new life, which gave something of heavenly gratitude to his bosom. How deep, serious, truly
sacred, his love was, can be read in all the lines of his writing that even remotely allude
to it; and at this time he gave expression to it with a sincerity so unconscious that in reading
his letters--and there are many of them, though happily he destroyed his wife's--one looks
straight into his heart. It is strange, he thinks, that "such a flower as our affection should
have blossomed amid snow and wintry winds;" and in all ways this love had the singularity that
deep natures feel in their own experiences. So one might weave the chain of lovers' phrases,
linking the old words over; but here, at least, it will be enough to let one or two separate
passages stand for his abiding mood. In June, 1840, he writes to her when she is at Concord:--

"My heart thirsts and languishes to be there, away from the hot sun, and the coal-dust, and
the steaming docks, and the thick-pated, stubborn, contentious men, with whom I brawl from
morning till night, and all the weary toil that quite engrosses me, and yet occupies only a
small part of my being, which I did not know existed before I became a measurer. I do think
I should sink down quite disheartened and inanimate if you were not happy, and gathering from
earth and sky enjoyment for both of us; but this makes me feel that my real, innermost soul
is apart from all these unlovely circumstances, and that it has not ceased to exist, as I might
sometimes suspect, but is nourished and kept alive through you. You know not what comfort I
have in thinking of you amid those beautiful scenes and amid those sympathizing hearts. If
you are well and happy, if your step is light and joyous there, and your cheek is becoming
rosier, and if your heart makes pleasant music, then is it not better for you to stay there
a little longer? And if better for you, is it not so for me likewise? Now, I do not press you
to stay, but leave it all to your wisdom; and if you feel it is now time to come home, then
let it be so." Sitting in this chamber, where my youth wasted itself in vain, I can partly
estimate the change that has been wrought. It seems as if the better part of me had been born
since then. I had walked those many years in darkness, and might so have walked through life,
with only a dreamy notion that there was any light in the universe, if you had not kissed my
eyelids and given me to see. You, dearest, have always been positively happy. Not so I,--I
have only not been miserable."

To turn to other matters, the preoccupation of Hawthorne's mind with his business, together
with the distraction of his courtship, proved unfavorable to imaginative work. It may be, too,
that the impulse to create had been somewhat exhausted by the rapid production of his later
tales in the year or two preceding. Only one original story appeared in this period of labor
and love, "John Inglefield's Thanksgiving," which was published in the "Democratic Review"
for March, 1840, as by the Rev. A. A. Royce. An interesting edition of "The Gentle Boy," [Footnote:
The Gentle Boy. A Thrice Told Tale. By Nathaniel Hawthorne. With an Original Illustration.
Boston: Weeks, Jordan & Co., 121 Washington Street. New York & London: Wiley & Putnam. 1839.
4to. Pp. 20.] under Hawthorne's name, had been issued in 1839 at his own expense; it contained
the original sketch of Ibrahim, by Sophia Peabody, engraved by J. Andrews, and was evidently
intended only as a kind of lover's gift to her, to whom it was dedicated. He gave his attention
now to writing some children's books, partly under the influence of his old "Peter Parley"
instruction and experience, and partly, no doubt, under the encouragement and advice of Elizabeth
Peabody, who was interested in such literature. The Peabodys, on removing to Boston, had opened
a shop, a library and book-store and homoeopathic drug-store, all in one, of which she was
the head, and with her name Hawthorne associated his new ventures. He had contemplated writing
children's books, as a probable means of profit, before he received his appointment in the
Custom House, as he said in his letter to Longfellow; and he merely stuck to the plan under
the new conditions. The result was three volumes of historical tales for young people, drawn
from New England in the colonial and revolutionary times, under different titles, but making
one series: "Grandfather's Chair," [Footnote: Grandfather's Chair. A History for Youth. By
Nathaniel Hawthorne, author of Twice-Told Tales. Boston: E. P. Peabody. New York: Wiley & Putnam.
1841. 32mo. Pp. vii, 140. The preface is dated Boston, November, 1840.] "Famous Old People,"
[Footnote: Famous Old People. Being the Second Epoch of Grandfather's Chair. By Nathaniel Hawthorne,
author of Twice-Told Tales. Boston: E. P. Peabody, 13 West St. 1841. 32mo. Pp. vii, 158. The
preface is dated December 30, 1840.] and "Liberty Tree." [Footnote: Liberty Tree. The preface
is dated Boston, February 27, 1841.] They appeared in rapid succession in 1841, and were successful.
But notwithstanding the high character of these little books as entertainment for children,
it will hardly be thought that literature had profited much by the devotion of genius to coal
and salt and the oversight of day laborers.

In the spring of 1841, immediately after the change of administration in March, Hawthorne lost
his place in the Custom House, and he at once betook himself to Brook Farm, in Roxbury, a suburb
of Boston, or, to give its full name, "The Brook Farm Institute of Agriculture and Education."
The place, the celebrities who gathered there in their youth, and their way of life, have all
been many times described, so that there is no occasion to renew a detailed account, especially
as Hawthorne's interest in the scheme was purely incidental. He must have had his plans already
made in preparation for a change in his life. The shop of the Peabodys in Boston was a centre
of transcendentalism, "The Dial" being published there; and Hawthorne's attention may have
been drawn to the movement for a practical application of the new social ideas by this circumstance,
and he may well have made the acquaintance of Ripley, the chief projector, through these family
friends. It is to be remembered, too, that he had been interested previously in the community
idea, in the case of the Shakers, and had twice written tales on motives suggested by their
life. But an experiment in the regeneration of society by a group of radicals would hardly
have given him much practical concern, had it not fallen in with some peculiarities of his
private position. Something, it is true, is to be allowed for the infection of the time, which
would touch a morally speculative mind such as Hawthorne's to some degree; he would have observed
these dreamers, breaking out new paths in the hardened old world of custom and inheritance,
and would have followed the fortunes of the dream in its effects on individual lives, for it
would appeal to the moral imagination and to his general sentiment about human life; but to
become one of the promoters would require, in a man so wary, so hard-headed and cool as he
naturally was in one half of his brain at least, a certain pressure of fact upon him. No man
was less of a reformer than Hawthorne; he was constitutionally phlegmatic about society, a
party man in politics, and an ironical critic of all "come-outers," as these people were then
popularly named; and, in this instance, which is the only apparently freakish action of his
life, he was certainly swayed by what he supposed to be his own interest. He was merely prospecting
for a home in which to settle. He was anxious to be married; he was thirty-seven years old,
and Sophia was thirty, and the engagement had already lasted two years and more. In this new
community hopes were held out that there would be cottages for families, and the whole business
of supporting a family was to be simplified and made easier by the joint arrangements of the
community, in an economical sense; moreover, that blessed union of manual toil with intellectual
labor was a prime part of the enterprise, and something akin to this Hawthorne still very much
desired in his own mind. To have some material work to do, to sustain a practical relation
with men and their general life, to have daily contact with matter of fact as a means of escape
from the old life of shadows, were still very definite and prized ends with him. He was fairly
possessed with this idea for some years. It may fairly be believed that he had no ulterior
purpose or belief in the affair, but merely for his personal convenience desired on the one
hand to solve the old problem of living in the world while not of it, and to provide a house
for his wife to come to. He was willing to try the new scheme, nothing else seeming so feasible
at the time to accomplish his immediate purpose; and he put into it all his savings, one thousand
dollars, but with the idea of withdrawing this capital in case he was dissatisfied with the
results, and should return to the ordinary ways of the world.

Hawthorne arrived at the farm among the first of the new settlers, in an April snowstorm, on
the twelfth of the month, and began at once to make the acquaintance of the barnyard. He was
entirely destitute of agricultural talents, original or acquired, a green hand in every sense
of the word, with that muscular willingness to learn which exhibits itself by unusual destructive
capacity upon implements of toil and the docility of patient farm animals. He had physical
strength, and after attempting to chop, hay, and milk, he was given a dung-fork and set to
work at a pile of manure. He writes about these details with a softening of the raw facts by
elegancies of language, and much gentle fun, but from the start he shows a playfulness of disposition
in regard to the whole affair, like a great boy on a vacation, as if the sense of it all being,
so far as he was concerned, a surprising joke on a novel scale were in his mind and attitude
all the time; and it is this humor, interlacing on the page like sunshine, that makes the life
of his narrative. Occasionally there is the touch of true enjoyment out of doors, as when,
under the clear blue sky on the hillside, it seemed as if he "were at work in the sky itself,"
and he notices the wild flowers coming into the chill world; but, as before at the wharf, so
now at his farming, doubts assail his mind whether this manual labor is a satisfactory solution
of his difficulties in adjusting himself to the world and opening communication with his fellow-men.
The disillusion, if there really had ever been any true hope on his part, was effected even
more quickly than before.

Ten weeks more finished the matter. It is not so."

Shortly after this outburst he made a visit to his home at Salem, where he had been much missed.
The few letters that his sister Louisa wrote to him after he first went to the farm afford
the pleasantest, and almost the only glimpse of his place in the family. His experiment was
plainly not welcome to them; his mother "groaned over it;" but, apart from that, in which there
may have been some family pride, though there was also real personal solicitude, it is noticeable
how his sister counts the weeks he has been gone, and expresses their vehement desires for
his return, and shows the thoughtfulness of the family for him in many ways. "Mother apostrophizes
your picture because you do not come home," she writes, after "nine weeks" of absence,--"a
great deal too long." In that secluded home he must indeed have been missed, and doubtless
it seemed to them day by day more certain that he had really gone out from them into another
world of his own. When he was in Salem in September, however, he no sooner crossed the threshold
than he felt the old deserted life fall on him again like an evil spirit. "How immediately
and irrecoverably," he writes to Sophia, "should I relapse into the way of life in which I
spent my youth! If it were not for you, this present world would see no more of me forever.
The sunshine would never fall on me, no more than on a ghost. Once in a while people might
discern my figure gliding stealthily through the dim evening,--that would be all. I should
be only a shadow of the night; it is you that give me reality, and make all things real for
me. If, in the interval since I quitted this lonely old chamber, I had found no woman (and
you were the only possible one) to impart reality and significance to life, I should have come
back hither ere now, with a feeling that all was a dream and a mockery."

Nevertheless he went back for a while, not now as a farmhand, but apparently as a boarder,
though he was made a trustee of the association and chairman of the committee on finance. He
took, from this time, little part in the working life of the community. He had made up his
mind that there was to be no home for him there, though "weary, weary, thrice weary of waiting
so many ages." He turns his mind to other plans of book-making, but does not have the seclusion
he had found necessary for composition, and rather mournfully writes that he "must observe,
and think, and feel, and content myself with catching glimpses of things which may be wrought
out hereafter." He did observe with his habitual closeness the people who came and went, and
the life of the inmates, sitting himself apart a good deal with a book before his face. He
made friends with a few, a very few, of whom George Bradford and Frank Farley remained to him
in later times; but he was, as always, averse to literary society, and came nearer to men of
a different type in his human intercourse. Sophia, who had seen him there amid the fraternity,
described his relationship to the others accurately, one of "courtesy and conformableness and
geniality;" but, she tells him, the expression of his countenance was "that of a witness and
hearer rather than of comradeship." In the fall weather he spent much of his time rambling
about, and the scarlet color of the pastures, the warmth of the autumn woods, and the fading
of the blue-fringed gentian, last blossom of the year, made up the texture of his notable life,
just as similar things had earlier done by the Salem shore. In the spring he left the community,
and made ready to go to Concord, where a place had been found for him to settle.

In the production of literature, life at Brook Farm had proved as barren as the years on Long
Wharf. He had contributed one story, "A Virtuoso's Collection," to "The Boston Miscellany"
for May, 1842, and had added one more to his little books, "Biographical Stories [Footnote:
Biographical Stories for Children. Benjamin West, Sir Isaac Newton, Samuel Johnson, Oliver
Cromwell, Benjamin Franklin, Queen Christina. By Nathaniel Hawthorne. Author of Historical
Tales for Youth, Twice-Told Tales, etc. Boston: Tappan and Dennet, 114 Washington St. 1842.
18mo. Pp. v, 161. "Historical Tales for Youth" was made up by binding the three Grandfather's
Chair books in the 18mo second edition, 1842, together with this volume, and issued as four
volumes in two, so labeled on the back.] for Children." The volume was added to the "Grandfather's
Chair" series, which was brought out in a new edition in 1842. 1842. 2 vols. 12mo. Pp. 331,
356. The first volume contained the same tales as the former edition, with The Toll-Gatherer's
Day added. The second volume contained the following: Howe's Masquerade, Edward Randolph's
Portrait, Lady Eleanore's Mantle, Old Esther Dudley, The Haunted Mind, The Village Uncle, The
Ambitious Guest, The Sister Years, Snowflakes, The Seven Vagabonds, The White Old Maid, Peter
Goldthwaite's Treasure, Chippings with a Chisel, The Shaker Bridal, Night Sketches, Endicott
and the Red Cross, The Lily's Quest, Footprints on the Sea-Shore, Edward Fane's Rosebud, The
Threefold Destiny.] in two volumes, in which the number of stories was doubled, but the collection
still left out many titles which were afterwards gathered.

Hawthorne had now been practically idle, so far as his genius was concerned, for three years,
and had experimented to his heart's content in other modes of life. He had decided on immediate
marriage. Sophia had recovered from her invalidism, and the lifelong headache she had experienced
disappeared. It remained only to inform Madam Hawthorne of the engagement which had been so
long concealed. He felt some trepidation, since, he says, "almost every agitating circumstance
of her life had cost her a fit of illness." But his fears were groundless; she came out of
her chamber to meet him as soon as he arrived, looking better and more cheerful than usual,
and full of kindness. "Foolish me," he writes happily to Sophia, "to doubt that my mother's
love could be wise, like all other genuine love!... It seems that our mother had seen how things
were a long time ago; at first her heart was troubled, because she knew that much of outward
as well as inward fitness was requisite to secure our peace; but gradually and quietly God
has taught her that all is good, and so we shall have her fullest blessing and concurrence.
My sisters, too, begin to sympathize as they ought, and all is well. God be praised! I thank
Him on my knees, and pray Him to make me worthy of the happiness you bring me." The quiet marriage
took place on July 9, 1842, at the home of the Peabodys in Boston, and Hawthorne and his wife
went to Concord to reside at the Old Manse.

IV.

THE OLD MANSE.

The life upon which the Hawthornes now entered for a period of three years and more was one
of village quiet and country happiness. Concord was a characteristic town of eastern Massachusetts,
with woodland, pasture, and hill lying unevenly in a diversified landscape, and in the midst
the little river winding its slow way along by the famous bridge. The neighbors were few, and
for the most part were members of the literary group of residents or visitors which gave Concord
its later distinction. Yet even here, amid this rural peace and in so restricted a society,
life at the Old Manse had a still deeper seclusion, as of a place of retreat and inviolable
privacy; there was an atmosphere of solitude about it, wrapping it round, a sense of life with
nature, and only slight and distant contact with the world, the privacy of a house that is
snow-bound, lasting on as if by enchantment through July heats as well as February drifts.
Hawthorne enjoyed this freedom in the place that first seemed to him like real home; and he
and his wife pleased their fancy with thinking of it as a native paradise, with themselves
as the new Adam and Eve, a thought which he had held in prospect before marriage and now clung
to with a curious tenacity, pursuing it through many changes of idea; and, on the level of
fact, he used to write that he had never lived so like a boy since he really was a boy in the
old days in Maine.

The situation of the house lent itself to his tastes and inclinations. It was set back from
the street, toward which an avenue of trees led out, and in the rear was the apple orchard
with the river on its edge. He could look from his windows on the life of the road, with its
occasional passers-by, for it was seldom that any one turned up the avenue to call; and he
could go down to the stream to bathe and fish in summer, and to skate in winter on the black
ice. He would wander out over the fields and into the woods with Ellery Channing, and go boating
with Thoreau, both of whom were companions he liked to be with; or if he met Margaret Fuller
in the paths of Sleepy Hollow, he could spend an hour or two in such half transcendental, half-sentimental
talk as he records from such a chance encounter. Emerson came, also, to talk and walk with
a man who was so firm-set in his own ways, being attracted to him by the subtleties of personality,
for he never could read Hawthorne's tales then or afterwards, so profound was the opposition
of their genius. If visitors stayed at the manse, it would be George Bradford, whom Hawthorne
respected in the highest degree which his appreciation of others ever reached, or Frank Farley,
the half-crazy Brook Farmer, whom he gave himself to in a more self-sacrificing way to aid
and comfort in his bewildered and imperfect state; or else Hillard would arrive, with much
cheerfulness and news from Longfellow or others of the Cambridge men. But Hawthorne still kept
the social world at a distance from his private and intimate self; these men, though he maintained
kindly intercourse with them, never penetrated the shell of his true reserve; the contact was
but superficial; and though they were good for company, he was often glad when they were gone
and he was again alone with nature and his dreams, and the ways and things of household life.

In doors, and out doors, too, the new life was full of happiness. The gentle felicity of the
literary recluse breathes through the description he gave of the place and time and habits
of existence in the Manse, which he wrote out for his readers in the pleasantest of his autobiographical
papers; and as for details to supply a more complete picture,--are they not written at large
in the family letters? His wife worshiped him, and named him all the names of classic mythology
and history,--Endymion, Epaminondas, Apollo,--glorying in his physical kinghood, as she saw
it, when he glided skating in the rose-colored air of twilight, and also in the divine qualities
of his spirit in doors, where he, on occasion--and the occasion grew more and more frequent--would
wash the dishes, do the chores, cook the meals even, relieving her of every care of this kind
in servant matters. He read to her in the evenings Macaulay, all of Shakspere, the Sermon on
the Mount for Sunday, and generally the old books over, Thomson's "Castle," Spenser's faeryland,
and the rest. She rejoiced in him and all that was his; and she painted and modeled a good
deal and worked out her artistic instincts very happily for herself, and much to her husband's
sympathetic pleasure. Una, the first child, was born March 3, 1844, and with this new revelation
life went on in deeper and sweeter ways of feeling, thought, and service. The home is easily
to be seen now, though it was then so private a place,--a home essentially not of an uncommon
New England type, where refined qualities and noble behavior flourished close to the soil of
homely duties and the daily happiness of natural lives under whatever hardships; a home of
friendly ties, of high thoughts within, and of poverty bravely borne.

There is no other word for it. Into this paradise of the Manse at Concord, set in the very
heart of outer and inward peace so complete, poverty had come. Hawthorne had never had any
superfluity in the things that give comfort and ease to life even on a small scale. The years
at Salem had been marked by strict economies always, it is plain; there was no more than enough
in that house, and thence arose in part its proud instinct of isolation; and Bridge, it may
be recalled, had cheered up Hawthorne's doubting spirits on one occasion by telling him that
the three hundred dollars he earned, at the age of thirty, was sufficient to support him. On
such a scale, he would not have called himself poor. But he was poor now, with that frank meaning
that the word has to a man willing to do without, who cannot pay his small debts; in fact the
smallness of the debt gives its edge to the misery. Hawthorne's whole New England nature rebelled
against it; for there is nothing so deep-grained in the old New England character as the dislike
to be "dependent," as the word is used. Hawthorne had gone through his training, too, in boyhood;
he had never contracted debts till he had the money to pay them; and now he had miscalculated
the "honesty"--as he doubtless named it in his thoughts--of other men. He had expected to draw
out the thousand dollars invested at Brook Farm, and he supposed he would get it, especially
if he really needed it, so unbusiness-like were his ideas; but as a matter of fact, he had
lost that money in the speculation as much as if he had risked it in any other way. There was
more to justify his irritation in the fact that "The Democratic Review," which had begun by
paying five dollars a page, and had dropped to twenty dollars an article independent of length,
had practically failed. He could not get paid for his work, and so he could not pay the small
bills of household expenses. They were insignificant, in one sense, but the fact that they
were not paid was independent of the amount. Emerson told him, so his wife writes, "to whistle
for it, ... everybody was in debt, ... all worse than he was." There had been hardship almost
from the first, as appears from Hawthorne's anger at Mr. Upham for telling tales in Salem of
their "poverty and misery," on which his most significant comment, perhaps, is, "We never have
been quite paupers." This was in March, 1843, and it is not unlikely that the modest ways of
the house, and possibly that disregard for regular meals in which Hawthorne had long been experienced,
may have given an impression of greater economy than there was need of; but, for all Hawthorne's
natural disclaimer, the family plainly spent as little as possible, and he found the kitchen
garden, whose fortunes he follows with such interest, gave him food as well as exercise. The
"Paradisaical dinner," on Christmas Day, 1843, "of preserved quince and apple, dates, and bread
and cheese, and milk," though of course its simplicity was only due to the cook's absence in
Boston, indicates other difficulties of housekeeping, as also do a hundred half-amusing details
of the household life. But the time of trouble came in dead earnest in the course of 1845,
and in the fall of that year extremity is seen nigh at hand when Mrs. Hawthorne writes to her
mother: "He and Una are my perpetual Paradise, and I besieged heaven with prayers that we might
not find it our duty to separate, whatever privations we must outwardly suffer in consequence
of remaining together."

The way out of all this trouble was found for Hawthorne by the same friends who had formerly
rescued him in the time of his bitter discouragement before his engagement. In the spring of
1845, Bridge and Frank Pierce appeared on the scene, and finding Hawthorne at his daily task
of chopping wood in the shed, they had a meeting of the old college-boy sort that brightens
the page with one of those human scenes that, occurring seldom in Hawthorne's life, have such
realistic effect.

"Mr. Bridge caught a glimpse of him, and began a sort of waltz towards him. Mr. Pierce followed;
and when they reappeared, Mr. Pierce's arm was encircling my husband's old blue frock. How
his friends do love him! Mr. Bridge was perfectly wild with spirits. He danced and gesticulated
and opened his round eyes like an owl.... My husband says Mr. Pierce's affection for and reliance
upon him are perhaps greater than any other person's. He called him 'Nathaniel,' and spoke
to him and looked at him with peculiar tenderness."

The friends agreed that something should be done for Hawthorne through political influence,
and in the course of the succeeding months there was much discussion of one and another office
without immediate result; and meanwhile Hawthorne prepared to remove to Salem again, where
he would so arrange matters that his mother and sisters should live in the same house with
him. He had occasionally visited them during his married life, and on one of these short stays
at home an incident occurred that should be recorded, not only for its singularity, but for
its glimpse of his mother in a new light.

"For the first time since my husband can remember, he dined with his mother! This is only one
of the miracles which the baby is to perform. Her grandmother held her on her lap till one
of us should finish dining, and then ate her own meal. She thinks Una is a beauty, and, I believe,
is not at all disappointed in her. Her grandmother also says she has the most perfect form
she ever saw in a baby."

It was a year later than this anecdote that the family was reunited in Salem, but before following
Hawthorne in his return to his native, though never very well loved town, his literary work
in these years at Concord should be looked at.

When Hawthorne came to live at the Old Manse it was some time since he had produced any imaginative
work, or, indeed, written anything except the stories for children in "Grandfather's Chair,"
which hardly rise above the class of hack work. Since leaving Salem in January, 1840, he had
published but one paper that is remembered in his better writings, and that, "A Virtuoso's
Collection," was of a peculiar character, being no more than a play of fancy, a curiosity of
literary invention. After the lapse of two years and a half, during which his imagination was
uncreative, it might have been anticipated that, under the new conditions of tranquillity and
private happiness, in the favorable surroundings of the Manse, he would have shown unusual
fruitfulness; but such was not the case. In the additional three years and a half that had
now passed since he settled at Concord, he gave to the world only eighteen papers. They did
not begin until 1843, and were distributed, for the most part, evenly over the next two years.
"Little Daffydowndilly" appeared in "The Boys' and Girls' Magazine" in 1843. Lowell's periodical,
"The Pioneer," which lived only through the first three months of that year, contained "The
Hall of Fantasy," in the February, and "The Birthmark," in the March number. "The Democratic
Review," which was still edited by O'Sullivan, a warm friend though editorially impecunious,
received the remaining tales and sketches with a few exceptions. It published them as follows:
in 1843, "The New Adam and Eve," February; "Egotism, or The Bosom Serpent," March; "The Procession
of Life," April; "The Celestial Railroad," May; "Buds and Bird Voices," June; "Fire Worship,"
December; in 1844, "The Christmas Banquet," January; "The Intelligence Office," March; "The
Artist of the Beautiful," June; "A Select Party," July; "Rappaccini's Daughter," December;
in 1845, "P.'s Correspondence," April. "Earth's Holocaust" had appeared in "Graham's Magazine,"
March, 1844, apparently on Griswold's invitation; and two tales, "Drowne's Wooden Image," and
"The Old Apple Dealer," were published, if at all, in some unknown place. All of these appeared
under the author's own name, except that he once relapsed into his old habit by sending forth
"Rappaccini's Daughter" as a part of the writings of Aubepine, a former pseudonym. "The Celestial
Railroad" [Footnote: The Celestial Railroad. By Nathaniel Hawthorne. Boston: published by Wilder
& Co., No. 46 Washington Street. 1843. 82mo, paper. Pp. 32.] was published separately as a
pamphlet. He had edited for "The Democratic Review" also the "Papers of an old Dartmoor Prisoner;"
and, in 1845, he assisted his friend Bridge to appear as an author by arranging and revising
his "Journal of an African Cruiser." [Footnote: Journal of an African Cruiser. Comprising Sketches
of the Canaries, The Cape de Verdes, Liberia, Madeira, Sierra Leone, and Other Places of Interest
on the West Coast of Africa. By an Officer of the U. S. Navy. Edited by Nathaniel Hawthorne.
New York & London: Wiley and Putnam. 1845. 12mo. Pp. 179.] This amount of literary work, taken
altogether, is not considerable, and it is noticeable that in the last year, 1845, he seems
to have practically ceased writing. He may have been a slow, and possibly an infrequent writer;
such, in fact, is the inference to be drawn also from his earlier years, when he does not seem
to have been a rapid producer except at the time of the issue of "Twice-Told Tales," when he
had the strongest spur of ambition and most felt the need of succeeding. He had written, in
all, about ninety tales and sketches in twenty years, so far as is known, of which thirty-nine
had been collected in the "Twice-Told Tales." He now took all his new tales and, adding to
them five others from his earlier uncollected stock, wrote the introductory sketch of his Concord
life, and issued them as "Mosses from an Old Manse" [Footnote: Mosses from an Old Manse. By
Nathaniel Hawthorne. In two parts. New York: Wiley and Putnam. 1846. 12mo. Pp. 211. The volume,
the two parts bound as one, contained The Old Manse, The Birthmark, A Select Party, Young Goodman
Brown, Rappaccini's Daughter, Mrs. Bullfrog, Fire Worship, Buds and Bird Voices, Monsieur du
Miroir, The Hall of Fantasy, The Celestial Railroad, The Procession of Life.] in Wiley and
Putnam's Library of American Books, New York. The work appeared in the earlier part of 1846.
Later he was to gather up the yet uncollected papers of the first period, and add the very
few tales afterwards written; but, in fact, Hawthorne's activity as a writer of tales practically
ended with his leaving Concord. His work of that kind was done; and some idea of what he had
accomplished, some analysis of his temperament and art as disclosed in these tales that were
the only enduring fruits of the score of years since he left college and began the literary
life, may now fairly be built on the total result.

These hundred tales and sketches of Hawthorne, broadly speaking, embody the literary results
of his life, especially from his thirtieth to his fortieth year, and represent all its activities.
In comparison with his later romances on the larger scale of life, they are studies, the 'prentice
work of his learning hand, and they disclose successively the varieties and modes of his growth,
which was one of slow and almost imperceptible gradations, until his method was fully formed,
perhaps unconsciously, and became the artistic mould of his genius. In his first attempts there
was little, if anything, more than in the instinctive motions of a bird's wings,--the disposition
for flight. He had the faculty of literary expression, which had been nourished within and
outwardly shaped in manner by constant contact with the English classic authors, and especially
with good prose, clear, simple, and direct, from which melodious cadence had not yet been eliminated.
He was touched, also, by some vague literary ambition, not well defined, but predisposed to
fiction; and he had a physically indolent habit, which kept him disengaged from practical affairs
and led him more and more into meditative ways. He did not have any inspiration from within,
any enthusiasm of sympathy or purpose, any life of his own, seeking expression; nor did he
find easily a definite subject outside himself to observe, describe, and animate. He turned,
in his early tales, to the local traditions and memories of his native place, and his stories
were no more than sketched history, provincial in atmosphere; nor did his genius show even
faintly in them any of its characteristic lines. Scott, undoubtedly, was the author who had
most affected his mental habit, and with this exception, notwithstanding what some critics
have alleged of his so-called "American predecessors," Charles Brockden Brown and the author
of "Peter Rugg," there is no trace of any other literary influence upon him either in this
preparatory time or later in life; but something of Scott is to be found permanently in his
creative work,--in the figure-grouping, the high speeches, the oddities of character humorously
treated, and especially in the use of set scenes individually elaborated to give the high lights
and to advance the story. But Scott's method was at first inadequately applied, nor is there
any sign that the young author yet appreciated the artistic capabilities of the material he
was using.

Hawthorne's instinct was always right in the preferences he showed among his works, of which
he was an excellent critic. It was not merely by accident that he was first known as the author
of "Sights from a Steeple," though accident may have had its share in the matter; and he long
continued to use this signature. This little essay is very carefully written, and displays
in remarkable perfection one quality that became so characteristic of his work that he has
no rival in it except Poe; it has that harmony of tone which is known as keeping a unity of
design and development so pervasive that the heavens above and the earth below are seen from
the little steeple as from a centre, and nature and life seem to revolve around the eye at
that altitude with complete breadth as well as smallness of proportion. It is the simplest
of trifles, as a composition; and, like much of Hawthorne's writing, has a curious accent of
the school reader, as if it were meant for that, so well is it adjusted to ready comprehension,
so mild is its interest, so matter-of-fact yet playful in fancy is its substance, and so immediate
is its village charm. He was proud of it as a piece of writing, and justly enough, for though
it may seem like one of the books of Lilliput, it perfectly accomplishes its little life. The
type once struck out in this clear way, Hawthorne returned to it again and again, and always
with the same happiness in execution and the same delight in the thing itself. In such a frame
he would set the miniature of a day, as in "The Toll-Gatherer's Day," or "Footprints on the
Sea-Shore," or "Sunday at Home;" or he would enclose a portrait, of Dutch faithfulness in detail,
and suggestive also of the school in other ways, as in "The Old Apple Dealer," or with greater
breadth of life, in "The Village Uncle." "A Rill from the Town Pump" and "Main Street" belong
to the same kind of writing; and most akin to it, at least, are such mingled nature and home
pieces as "Snowflakes," "Buds and Bird Voices," and "Fire Worship." These titles cover the
whole period of the tales, but there is no change in the manner or quality,--they are all of
one kind.

To make sketches so slight as these interesting, much more to embalm them in literature, requires
some magical touch either in the hand of the author or the heart of the reader. They are the
thistledown of literature, creatures of a contemplative idleness as pure as childhood's own,
the sun's impartial photography on the film of a rambler's eye; yet in these few pages are
condensed some thousands, probably, of Hawthorne's days. The life they depict has been called
barren, and the literary product has been described as thin. "What triviality, what monotony,
what emptiness!" the critics exclaim. It is, indeed, provincial; rusticity is its element.
Hawthorne, however, did not choose it, as a topic, for that reason, with a conscious intention
to exploit it. He could not have been aware, he could not have half known even, how provincial
it was, for he had never gone out of this countryside in which he was bred, or become acquainted
with a different world; even on his journeys in stage-coaches he had not got free of it. The
sketches made no artificial appeal; they have the true flavor of the soil, and are written
for those who sprang from it and dwelt upon it and would be buried in it. This is the charm
that still clings to them, and indeed pervades them like an aromatic odor in East Indian wood.
They are true transcripts of life, though vanished now from its place at least in that region,
which then enjoyed the seclusion of a nest of villages uninvaded by railroads, and was nearer
perhaps to Calcutta and Sumatra and the Gold Coast than to New York. He was not so solitary
and alone in this life, after all. That part of New England was not far from being a Forest
of Arden, when Emerson might be met any day with a pail berrying in the pastures, or Margaret
Fuller reclining by a brook, or Hawthorne on a high rock throwing stones at his own shadow
in the water. There was a Thoreau--there still is--in every New England village, usually inglorious.
The lone fisherman of the Isaak Walton type had become, in the New World, the wood-walker,
the flower-hunter, the bird-fancier, the berry-picker, and many another variety of the modern
ruralist. Hawthorne might easily have found a companion or two of similar wandering habits
and half hermit-like intellectual life, though seldom so fortunate as to be able to give themselves
entirely up to vagrancy of mind, like himself. Thoreau is, perhaps, the type, on the nature
side; and Hawthorne was to the village what Thoreau was to the wild wood.

The truth of these sketches is their prime quality, for Hawthorne wrote them with the familiar
affection and home-attachment of one who had fleeted the golden time of his youth amid these
scenes of common day, and prolonged it far into manhood, and should never quite lose its glow
of mere existence, its kindliness for humble things, its generous leisure for the perishable
beauty of nature dotted here and there with human life. It is a countrified scene that is disclosed,
but this truth which characterizes it, this fidelity of fact and sentiment and mood, suggests
new and deeper values,--a charm, a health, even a power comes to the surface as one gazes,
the power of peace in quiet places; and even a cultivated man, if he be not callous with culture,
may feel its attractiveness, a sense that the tide of life grows full in the still coves as
well as on all the sounding beaches of the world; and an existence in which the smell of peat-smoke
is an event, and the sight of some children paddling in the water is a day's memory, and the
mere drawing in of the salt sea wind is life itself, may seem as important in its simplicity
as the varied impressions of a day in the season. This was Hawthorne's life; was it after all
so valueless? He was well aware that even the native moralist, though unenlightened, would
call him to account for wasting his time; and he made his apology after having obeyed his mood:--

"Setting forth at my last ramble on a September morning, I bound myself with a hermit's vow
to interchange no thoughts with man or woman, to share no social pleasure, but to derive all
that day's enjoyment from shore and sea and sky,--from my soul's communion with these, and
from fantasies and recollections, or anticipated realities. Surely here is enough to feed a
human spirit for a single day. Farewell, then, busy world! Till your evening lights shall shine
along the street,--till they gleam upon my sea-flushed face as I tread homeward,--free me from
your ties, and let me be a peaceful outlaw.

"... But grudge me not the day that has been spent in seclusion, which yet was not solitude,
since the great sea has been my companion, and the little sea-birds my friends, and the wind
has told me his secrets, and airy shapes have flitted around me in my hermitage. Such companionship
works an effect upon a man's character, as if he had been admitted to the society of creatures
that are not mortal. And when, at noontide, I tread the crowded streets, the influence of this
day will still be felt; so that I shall walk among men kindly and as a brother, with affection
and sympathy, but yet shall not melt into the indistinguishable mass of humankind. I shall
think my own thoughts, and feel my own emotions, and possess my individuality unviolated."

The apology seems adapted to the comprehension of the native moralist, it must be confessed,
and is only an afterthought; for Hawthorne enjoyed his out-door life for its own sake, with
little reference to its ameliorating influence on his social behavior. It is his own life,
nothing more or less, that he thus describes, in the surroundings that heaven vouchsafed to
him for better or worse in the Salem streets, in the Danvers lanes, by the coves of Marblehead,
and along the western river uplands or the winding seashore of Beverly beside the islands.
If he went far afield to Nantucket, he returned with "Chippings with a Chisel;" if he took
an umbrella for a walk in the rain at home, he brought back "Night Sketches." Such was his
place. His own delight in this existence is noticeable, for it fitted his nature; in none of
his works is the pleasure of the author in writing them so marked a trait, and in none does
one come nearer to his natural self. They are complete and intimate revelations of the life
of his senses, the sounds and sights and happenings of daily life. They pleased the readers
he had at that time in New England, because they were a faithful reproduction of the commonplace,
played upon by sentiment and slightly moralized, but quite in the tone of the community; and
all men like to see themselves and their ways reflected in the mirror of words. They continue
to yield the same mild pleasure now, perhaps rather by virtue of a reminiscent charm, for this
life still exists on the horizons of memory as a part of the days gone by. They belong with
the literature of the old red schoolhouse, the moss-covered bucket, and the barefoot boy,--they
are of a past that was countrified and old-fashioned, and are its best record; and even in
the style, the mode of conception, they have the look of antiquated things. Their nearness
to the school has been adverted to; the cognate piece, "A Bell's Biography," has the completeness
of a boy's composition; there is a touch of nonage in them all, intellectually. In this, too,
they are true to the time. Things provincial seen by a provincial mind and set forth by a provincial
art,--such are these delicately minute sketches; and unless one takes them so, he misses their
excellence, their virtue, the vitality they have. Life in the provinces, however, is also a
divine gift, and its values have seldom been better portrayed, its breadth, its narrowness,
its shadings through sunshine and nightfall, its sentiment, its miscellaneousness, its weariness;
but its controlling characteristic is its rural peace, such as one likes to see in a painting
on the wall for year-long contemplation, and if this be broken, it is with real tragedy, disasters
of the sea, or such an inland story as the drowning of the young woman at Concord so accurately
told in the "Note-Books." Hawthorne's personality counts for much, too, in these pieces, as
Irving's also does in his sketches. The sense of a kindly temperament, hospitable to all that
lives and is in the dusty world, is felt like a touch of nature making us akin to the writer;
the classic quality of the prose itself gilds all with sunshine; and one only needs love of
the soil to complete the charm.

These records of memory and sentiment, however, belong to Hawthorne's ocular observation, in
the main, and to the exterior sphere of his art. It is in the historical tales that his imagination
first acts with seeing power; and here, too, the story by which he preferred to be known, "The
Gentle Boy," stands out, though its prominence is rather a matter of priority than of distinction,
for it is the fruit of his sympathies more than of his imagination. The remembrance of his
ancestor's share in the persecution of the Quakers may have suggested the theme, and specially
drawn out his own gentleness in the treatment. The singularity of the tale is partly due to
the fascination of the child's name, Ilbrahim, which brings before the mind an eastern background,
emphasizes his loneliness, and gives a suggestion of Scriptural charm to the narrative. One
almost expects to see palm-trees growing up over him. He is, however, not individualized,--he
is the universal orphan child; nor does it require any stretch of fancy to see in him the Christchild
that St. Christopher bore over the river, for so might that Child have come into this wilderness
preaching the eternal lesson. The pathetic story is a fable of piety, in fact, and is somewhat
nervelessly handled for reality; the figures seem to glide in their motions, they are not quite
set on the earth, they are impalpable except in their emotions. The facts lack firmness, though
the feeling is wrought out with truth and refinement and makes an irresistible appeal of pity.
It is, however, rather in the second historical tale which Hawthorne chose to stand as his
pseudonym of authorship, "The Gray Champion," that he finds the type whose method he afterward
repeats while developing it more richly. This tale is a picture, a scene, ending in a tableau;
the surrounding stir of life, excitement, and atmosphere is first prepared, then the procession
comes down the street, and is arrested, challenged, and thrown back by the venerable figure
of the old Puritan who stands alone, like a prophet come back from the dead to deliver the
people. The composition, the development, the focusing are in Scott's manner; it is from him
that this dramatic presentation of history in a single scene, as here, or by a succession of
scenes carrying on a story, is derived; partly pictorial, partly theatrical, always dramatic,
this is the method which Hawthorne applied, the art of "The Author of Waverley," who was its
great master in English fiction. "Endicott and the Red Cross" is a small study of the same
sort; and in that sketch, and elsewhere, it is noticeable that in bearing and language the
characters resemble the Covenanters, as Scott fixed the type in literature, more than they
recall the real New England Puritans. Hawthorne's interest in colonial history found its most
complete early expression in the "Tales of the Province House," in which he for once succeeded
in grouping a series in a natural and effective way so as to make a larger whole. "Sir William
Howe's Masquerade" is told by a succession of scenes, quite in the manner described, and the
suggestion of mystery, the supernatural intention felt in the incident though not explicitly
present in the fact, which in this story attends the last descending figure of the line of
royal governors, as it also attended the figure of the Gray Champion, is also in Scott's manner,
though more subtly effected. In "Edward Randolph's Portrait" the appearance of the picture
on the faded canvas is mechanically accounted for, but at the moment of its discovery this
same supernatural expectancy, as it were, is aroused in the beholders; the incident itself
recalls the appearance of the portrait of old Lord Ravenswood at the marriage ball of "The
Bride of Lammermoor," though the analogy may very likely never have occurred to Hawthorne.
"Old Esther Dudley" is hardly more than a character portrait,--the memory of the Province House
and all it stood for preserved in the devotion of the old servant into whose life it had passed
and whose spirit it occupied like a reliquary of old time. The best of these four tales is
"Lady Eleanore's Mantle," and it is so because in it Hawthorne's genius passed out of the sphere
of history and touched on that universal moral world where his most original creation was to
lie. It is necessary here only to observe that in this tale he has fully seized the power of
the physical object, plainly sensible to all as matter of fact, to serve as the medium for
moral suggestion often difficult to put into words, of that sort whose effect is rather in
the feelings than in thought; and this, without turning the object into an express symbol.
The mantle of Lady Eleanore is a garment of pride, and also a garment of death in its dread
form of pestilence; the story continually returns to it, as its physical theme, and the imagination
fixes upon it by a kind of fascination, as through it the double aspect of Lady Eleanore's
isolation is sensibly clothed, her haughtiness and her contagion, whose fatal bond is in this
mantle, which finally seems not only to express her life but to rule her tragedy. Here one
feels a new power, because while Hawthorne still retains the method of narration he had adopted,
he has enriched it with an art and genius distinctly his own. In another tale,--which is provincial
if not historical, and which was one of his earlier pieces,--"Roger Malvin's Burial," there
is also a noticeable beginning in his art, for in this he uses undesigned coincidence to give
that impression of a guided accomplishment of fate, which is so dramatically effective to the
moral sense. From these few instances it will be observed that Hawthorne reached artistic consciousness,
and a mastery of aim and method, slowly and along no one line of development; rather his genius
seemingly put forth many tendrils, seeking direction and support and growth, and gradually
in these hundred tales he found himself and his art.

History assisted Hawthorne's imagination in its operation by affording that firmness and distinctness
of outline which was most needed in his work; it gave body to his creations, but in his most
characteristic and original tales this body was not to be one of external fact, but of moral
thought. His genius contained a primary element of reflection, of meditation on life, of the
abstract; and while his imagination might take its start and find an initial impulse, an occasion,
in some concrete object on which it fastened, its course in working itself out was governed
by this abstract moral intention. In dealing with life directly, and not through history, the
tales which are at the least remove from mere observation are those that were immediately suggested
by his journeys and embody these experiences in their background if not in the whole; such
are "The Seven Vagabonds" and the two Shaker episodes, "The Canterbury Pilgrims" and "A Shaker
Bridal." His experiments in the grotesque style, "Mr. Higginbotham's Catastrophe" and "Mrs.
Bullfrog," can be left one side, for they never passed the stage of amateurish weakness, and
led to nothing. His meditation on life sometimes centres about an individual, but this is only
seeming; his real interest was always in collective life or in the atmosphere round about all
lives. To take a simple case, but one typical of his point of view and method, "The Haunted
Mind" is a study in the night-atmosphere of the human soul, in a certain state, and is rendered
with the vividness of personal experience. "Fancy's Show-Box" is a more individualized variant
of the same motive, and yet its substance is the frankly abstract question of responsibility
for guilt which is not acted but only entertained; and as in this tale the story is of the
sins that hover round the soul waiting to be born, so in "David Swan" the story is of the events
that might happen to an unsuspecting man, but pass by innocuous after merely shadowing his
sleep like a threat. To this atmosphere of life also belongs the elaborate shadow sketch, "Monsieur
de Miroir," a motive often treated in literature and here more lightly handled than one would
have anticipated, and hence more ineffectively, for Hawthorne's power did not lie in his playfulness
of fancy so much as in its darker workings. Hawthorne let his mind brood over these possibilities
of life, these half-vital acts, thoughts, and beings, like fears in an anxious mind, things
that have only partial being, but are real enough at times to trouble the mind's eye. A touch
of this atmosphere of unreality is found, also, in such a tale as "Wakefield," the story of
the man who disappeared from his place in life though he remained in the neighborhood unknown;
the main theme is rather the man cut off from life, which Hawthorne so often recurred to, but
the element of life's contingency, the nearness of an event that might happen but never does,
is what makes the strangeness of this curious study.

In approaching life itself in its individual forms, the slightness of Hawthorne's attempt in
the earlier pieces is very marked. A good example of it is "The Wives of the Dead." Two wives,
who suppose their husbands have been lost at sea, are told separately at different hours of
the night, in the house they occupy together, that the lost has been saved; each believing
the other a widow leaves her to sleep. Here are merely two dramatic moments described and opposed,
a perfect example of likeness in difference on a small scale, done with great truth to nature;
the sketch is finely wrought, and gains by its intense condensation of situation and its brief
single mood. Two such moments, in his simpler tales, Hawthorne was accustomed to take, and
treat by opposition; the power lies in the contrast. Such, to give examples, are "The White
Old Maid," "Edward Fane's Rosebud," and with less distinctness, "The Wedding Knell," where
the contrast goes back to lost youth for effect. In the very artificial fable, which has elements
of the fairy story in it, "The Three-fold Destiny," there is this simple construction, and
it is found also in "The Prophetic Pictures," though that tale is primarily a study in the
idea of fate, a subject seldom touched by Hawthorne, the notion of an inevitable destiny foreseen
by the painter's intuition and forecast on the canvas, but implicit from the beginning in character.
In all these tales scene, situation, and character, as well as the dialogue, are handled with
little variation; pictorial and dramatic effects are sought, and the slight plot is developed,
by the means usual to Hawthorne's hand. The allegorizing method, it should be observed, though
it appears with greater or less influence, is not employed with any exclusiveness, but takes
its place with other resources of his art. In "The Great Carbuncle," however, and in "The Man
of Adamant," the allegory is predominant and absorbs the tale. Perhaps it is as an offshoot
of this allegorizing mood that the tales of pure fancy should be regarded, those masque-like
inventions, "A Select Party" and "The Hall of Fantasy," together with "The Intelligence Office"
and "A Virtuoso's Collection," also remnants of old-fashioned ingenuity. In such fantasy Hawthorne
found a better channel for that play of his mind which had earlier sought expression in the
grotesque; oddity of thought he had in plenty, and the sense of oddity was often as far as
his humorous faculty reached, for it was perceptive rather than sympathetic.

Of collective life, frankly so treated, Hawthorne wrote frequently,--the group is an important
one. The crowd attracted him by its polarity to his own solitude, and it is curious to observe
how fond he was of the processional in his work. The simple illustration of this sort is "The
Procession of Life;" here he marshals mankind, as with the power of a magician's rod, in hordes.
In "The New Adam and Eve" he reviews society in its institutions and its garniture of civilization;
and the conception is a happy device by which to obtain the requisite distance and wholeness
for a single point of view. "Earth's Holocaust," though superficially different, is a variant
of the same theme, presenting the product of life in masses; its inclusion of the indestructibility
of the good is noticeable as a philosophical idea such as he rarely introduced in an explicit
way. The felicitous allegory of "The Celestial Railroad" satirizes human nature without bitterness;
but, while the universality of Bunyan's emblems is strikingly shown by the ease with which
they are adapted to the new age of steam, the tale is, as it were, music transposed; the cleverness
is Hawthorne's, but Bunyan wrote the piece. These four tales, admirable as they are in breadth,
are nevertheless essentially reflective. The imaginative group of the same scope is of a higher
rank. In it the general life is set forth with more individuality, though life in the abstract
still occupies the foreground. To set aside such a moral parable as "The Lily's Quest," or
such an illustration of the power of love to raise a man above himself temporarily as "Drowne's
Wooden Image," or such a study of isolation as "The Man of Adamant," in all of which the didacticism
is rather nakedly felt, there are two tales that equally exemplify this class, "Dr. Heidegger's
Experiment" and "The Christmas Banquet." In the first the ghastliness of the reversal of the
course of life backward, as the guests drink the elixir of youth, while it suggests the paltriness
of our pleasures, is a powerful lesson in the beneficence of that daily death whereby we resign
the past; this rejuvenation violates nature, and so shocks us, and by the very shock we are
reconciled with nature, from which we had parted in thought. "The Christmas Banquet" is one
of the most artistically conceived of all the tales, though its subject repels us; the wretchedness
of life is shown in the persons of numerous guests through a succession of years, with the
effect of a multiplicity of instances; yet at the end it is found that the worst wretch of
all is the constant guest with the cold, unfeeling heart,--the climax of misery is not to have
lived at all. The tale is carefully composed, especially in those points of keeping, balance,
and contrast in which Hawthorne was expert, yet by some misadventure it fails to interpret
itself clearly. In proportion, however, as imagination enters into these stories under the
impulse of the artistic faculty, it will be seen that they lend themselves less readily to
such definite classification as has thus far been attempted; the various elements of Hawthorne's
genius and art draw together and combine, and in the group that remains to be noticed his originality
is most conspicuous, and this requires a more flexible treatment, though without exception
these tales fall under the head of the general life set forth reflectively in the forms of
concrete imagination.

Probably in no one point is Hawthorne's peculiarity so obviously marked as in the persistency
with which he clings to a physical image, vividly impressing it upon the mind, like a text
which gathers atmosphere and discloses significance under the special treatment of the preacher.
It is said that he had, artistically, the allegorizing temperament, and he in fact did use
all those forms of imagery--the fable, apologue, parable--which belong to this mode of presentation;
but in his most effective work the allegory is more subtly embodied,--it exists in suggestion,
and its appeal is as much emotional as didactic. The nucleus of this new mystery is the physical
object that he seizes upon and in which his imagination works as if it were clay, recreating
it so that it becomes more than pure symbol, as has been illustrated in "Lady Eleanore's Mantle;"
and sometimes it is almost vitalized into a life of its own. This power of such an object to
become the medium of thought and emotion as well as to convey merely allegorical meaning he
gradually discovered; and doubtless he especially valued its function to afford by its crude
definiteness a balance to the tenuous and impalpable, the vagueness, refinement, and mystery,
to which it is the complement, in his art; he gains reality by its presence for what else,
as a whole, might seem too insubstantial, too much a part of that shadow world in which he
dreaded to dwell altogether.

Such an object is, at all events, a necessity for him in his greater work. A crude form of
it is the snake, in the tale of "The Bosom Serpent," one of those "allegories of the heart"
which he apparently meant to write in a series of which he never found the key. The idea is
an old one; the man with a snake in his bosom is a hypochondriac, who by centring his thoughts
on himself has developed this fancy and is tortured by it. The cure is wrought when he forgets
himself in returning to the love of his wife. The almost physical dismissal of the serpent
into the fountain, which is neither averred nor denied, like a devil cast out as in old times,
is puerile; but Hawthorne was, in other tales, not averse to a naturalistic explanation of
his mysteries, as if a basis of matter of fact, however irrelevant essentially, gave more plausibility
to their truth. If the snake is "egotism," if it is the torture of self in a man, if its cure
is the loss of self in love, then making the snake real and physical is absurdity; medicine
and morals are confounded; the scientific fact has nothing to do with the artistic meaning
and is a concession to the gross senses of the reader. The story illustrates the method, rather
than its successful application; for the physical horror is really greater here than the moral
revulsion. In "The Minister's Black Veil" the object is more happily dealt with. It is to be
noticed that Hawthorne did not invent these objects, he found them; and, in this case, he has
used the tradition of an old Puritan minister of the past age. He uses the veil to typify man's
concealment of himself from others, even the nearest; and while it visibly isolates the minister
among his fellow-men, it finally unites him with them in a single lot; for to the mind's eye,
educated by this image to a new power of seeing, all men wear this veil; humanity is clothed
with it in life, and moulders away beneath it in the grave, whither its secrets are carried.
The seeming exception is found to be the rule; the horror attaching to the one unseen face
is now felt in all faces; the race is veiled, and the bit of crape has fallen like the blackness
of night upon all life, for life has become a thing of darkness, a concealment. Here the moral
idea is predominant, and in it the symbol issues into its full life.

Hawthorne's art became always, not only more vividly symbolized, but more deeply moralized.
The secrecy of men's bosoms was a matter that interested him very much; the idea had a fascination
for him. It is the substance of the tale of "Young Goodman Brown," who goes to the witches'
Sabbath in the Essex woods and there sees those who have taught him religion, the righteous
and the good, men and women, and his own wife,--sees them or their devil-brewed phantasms;
he calls on heaven, and finds himself suddenly alone; but when he returns to the village, and
looks again on the venerable fathers and mothers of his childhood and his own tender and loving
wife, he cannot free his mind from the doubt,--were they what they seemed or had he indeed
beheld them there in the woods at their orgy? It is as if for him the veil were lifted, and
he alone saw, like omniscience, into the bosoms of all. Suspicion, arising from his own contact
with evil, though he escaped, has imparted the look of hypocrisy to all life; this is his bedevilment.
Here the place of the physical object is taken by the incident of the woods, and the moral
idea is less clearly stated; the story is one of those whose significance is felt to contain
mystery which Hawthorne meant to remain in its dark state.

In "The Birthmark" the physical object is again found as the initial point of the tale and
the guiding clue of the imagination in working it out. The situation presents the opposition
of the love of science to human love, but no conflict is described, because the first is the
master passion from the beginning, and, being indulged, leads to the loss of the second in
the death of the wife, who perishes in having the birthmark removed. The moral idea, as not
unfrequently happens, seems to flake off from the tale, like the moral of the old fable, and
is to the effect that imperfection belongs to mortal life, and if it is removed wholly mortality
must go with it; and the lesson is of the acceptance of imperfection in what men love, as a
permanent condition, and indeed almost as the humanizing feature, of earthly life. It is noticeable
that the clergyman, the physician, and the artist are the only specific types that attracted
Hawthorne; he held them all romantically, and science he conceived as alchemy. This same predisposition
appears in "Rappaccini's Daughter;" she was the experiment of her father in creating a live
poison-woman, a vitalized flower, the Dryad as it were of the poison-tree humanized in mortal
shape; the physical object is here the flowering tree, with its heavy fragrance; and the plot
lies only in the gradual transformation of the young man by continuous and unconscious inoculation
until he is drawn into the circle of death to share the woman's isolation as a lover, both
being shut off from their kind by the poison atmosphere that exhales from them; the catastrophe
lies in the moral idea that for such poison there is no antidote but death, and the lady dies
in drinking the draught that should free her. The fact that Hawthorne, when writing the story,
said he did not know how it would end, is interesting as indicating that his literary habit
was to let the story tell itself from within according to its impulses, and not to shape it
from without by his own predetermined purpose; a pure allegorist, it may be observed, would
have followed naturally the latter method. This may account for the indefiniteness and mystery
of effect often felt, as well as for the inartistic didacticism in the concluding sentences,
frequently to be observed, where it appears as one or more afterthoughts possibly to be drawn
from the story, but not exhausting its moral significance. In this case, powerful as the tale
is, the moral intention is left vague, though except as a parable the invention is meaningless.

In the last story to be instanced, "The Artist of the Beautiful," the lucidity of the parable
is complete. The physical object is the butterfly; on its wings the tale moves, and perishes
in its destruction. The moral idea lies in the exposition of achievement as a freeing of the
artist's soul so that his work has become a thing of indifference to him, let its fortunes
be what they will,--it is the dead chrysalis from which he has escaped; and the isolation of
the artist's life is set forth pathetically but with no suggestion of evil in it, for though
the world has rejected him he lives in his own world in the calm of victory. No tale is so
delicately wrought as this; in it the symbolism, which is carried out in minute and precise
detail, the moral significance, which is as clear as it is deep, and the presence of a spiritual
world in life for which a visible language is found, are all present, in harmonious blending;
and it has the added and rare charm of happiness without loss of truth. It is unique; and if
one were to choose a single tale, best representing Hawthorne's powers, methods, and successes,
technically and temperamentally as well as in imaginative reach and spiritual appeal, it is
by this he should be known.

In these six tales in which Hawthorne's originality is most characteristically expressed, the
idea of isolation is common to all; like the secrecy of men's bosoms, this solitude in life
is a fixed idea in his imagination, an integral part of life as it was viewed by him, and he
seldom freed his attention from it even temporarily. On the other hand, sin, conscience, evil,
though their realm is felt to be a neighboring province, are not here directly dealt with.
His probings in that sphere belong to a later time. These tales, like the others, are studies
of life, not of the evil principle by itself as a thing of special interest; they view life
as lying under a shadow, it is true, but this shadow is their atmosphere, not their world.
The point should be defined, perhaps more explicitly: the Calvinism of New England, its interest
in the perversion of man's will, his sinful state, and the mysterious modes of salvation, is
not the region of Hawthorne's imagination, as here disclosed. It is enough to note this, here,
as bearing on his representative character. The most surprising thing, however, is that his
genius is found to be so purely objective; he himself emphasized the objectivity of his art.
From the beginning, as has been said, he had no message, no inspiration welling up within him,
no inward life of his own that sought expression. He was not even introspective. He was primarily
a moralist, an observer of life, which he saw as a thing of the outside, and he was keen in
observation, cool, interested. If there was any mystery in his tales, it was in the object,
not in the author's breast; he makes no confessions either direct or indirect,--he describes
the thing he sees. He maintained that his tales were perfectly intelligible, and he meant this
to apply not only to style but to theme. It is best to cite his own testimony. His personal
temper is indicated in the fragmentary phrase in the "Note-Books;"

In the preface to "Twice-Told Tales," which however was prefixed to a late edition and may
be fairly held to cover his view of his tales in general, he directs attention to their objectivity
in another form:--

"The sketches are not, it is hardly necessary to say, profound; but it is rather more remarkable
that they so seldom, if ever, show any design on the writer's part to make them so. They have
none of the abstruseness of idea or obscurity of expression which mark the written communications
of a solitary mind with itself. They never need translation. It is, in fact, the style of a
man of society. Every sentence, so far as it embodies thought or sensibility, may be understood
and felt by anybody who will give himself the trouble to read it, and will take up the book
in a proper mood."

A little further on he adds his statement of what the sketches both are and are not:--

"They are not the talk of a secluded man with his own mind and heart (had it been so, they
could hardly have failed to be more deeply and permanently valuable), but his attempts, and
very imperfectly successful ones, to open an intercourse with the world."

To Hawthorne himself these tales seemed so external; and his analysis, however much may be
allowed for modesty in the statement, appears to be true.

Hawthorne left himself out of his work, so far as a man can. Indeed, his own life was neither
vigorous nor one of much variety of faculty, outside of his art. He had the indolence of the
meditative habit, or of the artistic nature, if one chooses to call it so. He clearly spent
a great deal of time doing nothing in particular; he read, observed the world of the passing
seasons, made long memoranda of nature and human nature and short notes of ideas for tales
and sketches, and had in fact large leisure, except in the years when he was in the Boston
Custom House, and he was not without leisure even then. He shows no inclination toward scholarship,
but was a desultory reader of English, with some French; he had no intellectual interests,
apparently, of a philosophical kind; the aloofness in which he stood from Longfellow and Emerson,
for example, was not shyness of nature wholly, but stood for the real aloofness of his mind
from their ways of life, from the things that absorbed them in their poetic and speculative
activity; it is but another example, if it is added that he took no interest in public affairs,
truly speaking. He was a Democrat, but that does not fully account for his indifference to
those philanthropies which his literary friends shared; for, as a party man, he was not zealous.
His nature was torpid in all these ways; there was dullness of temperament, indifference to
all except the one thing in which he truly lived, his artistic nature; and here he was an observer,
using an objective method with as little indebtedness to personal experience as ever artist
had. His reserve amounted to suppression; and, in fact, his personal life was not of the sort
that must find a voice. He seemed to feel that the "Twice-Told Tales," at least, which he described
as "memorials of tranquil and not unhappy years," had contracted some faintness of life from
their author's mind, as if a low vital tone characterized them, owing to his incapacity to
yield himself with fullness of power even to this reflective or creative art:--

"They have the pale tint of flowers that blossomed in too retired a shade,--the coolness of
a meditative habit, which diffuses itself through the feeling and observation of every sketch.
Instead of passion there is sentiment; and, even in what purport to be pictures of actual life,
we have allegory, not always so warmly dressed in its habiliments of flesh and blood as to
be taken into the reader's mind without a shiver. Whether from lack of power, or an unconquerable
reserve, the Author's touches have often an effect of tameness; the merriest man can hardly
contrive to laugh at his broadest humor; the tenderest woman, one would suppose, will hardly
shed warm tears at his deepest pathos. The book, if you would see anything in it, requires
to be read in the clear, brown, twilight atmosphere in which it was written; if opened in the
sunshine, it is apt to look exceedingly like a volume of blank pages."

This is, of course, the natural overstatement of an author whose work has gone from him and
seems less vital because he has outlived it; but nevertheless it contains sound judgment as
to the limitations of his art.

But notwithstanding Hawthorne's objectivity and reserve, of which he justly makes so much,
and the low vital tone of his work, resulting from whatever cause, he did not altogether escape
from himself in his art; his shadow followed him into that world. The "clear brown twilight
atmosphere" of which he speaks was an affair of temperament; it exhaled from his personality.
That recurring idea of isolation, the sense of the secrecy of men's bosoms, the perception
of life as always lying in the shadow that falls on it, proceeded from predilections of his
own, differentiating him from other men; there may have been no very perilous stuff in his
breast, nothing to confess or record peculiar to himself in act or experience, no intensity
of self-life, but there was this temperament of the solitary brooder upon life. In that common
fund of human nature which he said was the basis of sympathy between himself and the world,
there was also some specialization, which is rightly ascribed to his race qualities. He took
practically no interest in life except as seen under its moral aspects as a life of the soul;
and this absorption in the moral sphere was due to his being a child of New England. It was
his inheritance from Puritanism. What distinguished Puritan life and the people who grew up
under its influences was an intense self- consciousness of life in the soul,--in a word, spirituality
of life; and Hawthorne, as he came to find himself in his growth, disclosed one form of this
spirituality both reflectively and imaginatively in his writings, the form that lived in him.
The moral world, the supremacy of the soul's interests, how life fared in the soul, was his
region; he thought about nothing else. He desired to present what he saw through the medium
of romantic art, but he was never able to be wholly content with this medium; he desired to
make assurance doubly sure by expressing it in its abstract moral terms also, either explicitly
in an idea which shows through the story, or else imperfectly in an allegory or symbol where
the moral element should be definitely felt in its intellectual, its unartistic form. The fact
that this abstract element really outvalues the tale and its characters is shown, for example,
by the lack of interest one feels in the future of his characters, in what becomes of them
at the end of the story; they are lost from the mind, because their function is fulfilled in
illustrating an idea; and, that once conveyed, the characters cease to have life,--they disappear,
like the man of science or the artist of the beautiful, into the background of the general
world; they fade out. It is by this abstract moral element that Hawthorne's art is universalized.

His manner, it must be acknowledged, retains provinciality; in the best of the tales, just
as in those sketches of observation in Salem, there is something countrified in the mode of
handling, something archaic and stiff in the literary mould, something awkward, cramped, and
bare in the way his art works in its main motions, however felicitous in word and fall is the
garment of prose as language. There is a lack of urban ease, certainty, and perfection of manner.
The limitation, however, stops there. The world in which the artist works is the universal
world of man's nature, just as much as is Shakespeare's. He escapes from provincialism here,
in the substance, because he was a New Englander, not in spite of that fact; for the spirituality
which is the central fact of New England life itself escapes from provincialism, being a pure
expression of that Christianity in which alone true cosmopolitanism is found, of that faith
which presents mankind as one and indivisible. Hence arises in Hawthorne a second distinctly
Puritan trait, his democracy. He looks only at the soul; all outward distinctions of rank and
place, fortune, pride, poverty, disappear as unconcerning things; he sees all men as in the
light of the judgment day. He does this naturally, too, almost without knowing it, so inbred
in him is that preconception of the Christian soul, whose moral fortune constitutes alone the
significance of life. In these ways the race element, the New England element, is shown; from
it springs the moral prepossession of his art, its universal quality, and its democratic substance.
This was the nucleus of inheritance and breeding, which together with his temperament governs
his art from within, even amid all its personal reserve and its objectivity. The gradually
increasing power of these elements gave his tales greater intensity and reach, and was to lift
his romances to another level; for what was inchoate and experimental in the tales, in many
ways, was to receive a new and greater development in his later work, on which his world-wide
fame rests. The tales had not brought him fame; as yet, his audience was small, and confined
to New England. He had advanced so far as to seem like one talking to his friends, instead
of, as at first, one talking to himself in a dark place, as he said; but recognition, such
as he desired, he had not obtained. There is certainly some irritation in his repeated references
to the early neglect he felt from the public, at the time when, as he says, he "was for a good
many years the obscurest man of letters in America." He thought this lack of appreciation palsied
his efforts, so that he did not do what he might have done, and it may have been the case;
but before the days when he wrote "The Artist of the Beautiful" he must have learned that one
must serve the Muses for themselves alone.

V.

THE SCARLET LETTER.

Amid the hard conditions of his life at Concord Hawthorne had decided to place himself again
under the aegis of his political friends to earn his living as a public officer. He had no
confidence in his literary capacity as a means of livelihood. He found himself, he says, unable
to write more than a third of the time, and he composed slowly and with difficulty; he refers
more than once to that hatred of the pen which belongs to a tired writer, and he was frequently
indisposed to composition for long periods; and, in any event, he thought that what he wrote
must appeal necessarily to so small an audience that, should he continue to devote himself
exclusively to a literary career, he must do so as a professional hack-writer of children's
books, translations, newspaper essays, and such miscellaneous drudgery. His habits, formed
in his years at Salem, included an element of large leisure, an indulgence of one's self in
times and seasons of mental activity, a certain lethargy of life; and he had not shown any
power of sustained production in the monotony of daily work for bread. He felt a dread of such
necessity. "God keep me," he writes to Hillard before this time, "from ever being really a
writer for bread!" The only alternative for him was office-holding.

The election of Polk to the Presidency gave his friends the opening, and the campaign to secure
an appointment was begun. Bridge, then living in bachelor quarters at Portsmouth Navy Yard,
conceived the rather daring idea of a sailor house-party with Hawthorne as its centre, for
the purpose of making him acquainted with the political group in whose hands influence lay;
and, if it be remembered that the Hawthornes had not spent an evening out for years, and still
continued their seclusive life, the proposition may well seem a bold stroke. The party, however,
gathered in the summer of 1845; Franklin Pierce and his wife, Senator Atherton and his wife,
of New Hampshire, and Senator Fairfield of Maine, to mention the notables, were the principal
guests, and there were several others, making a greater company than Hawthorne had been thrown
with since he lodged at Brook Farm. It was an informal naval picnic, apparently, of two or
three weeks, and Bridge thought that its main object of popularizing Hawthorne with the Senators
was attained. The point of attack was the Salem Post Office, but this proved impracticable,
and attention was turned to the Custom House, where either the surveyorship or the naval office
might be got. Meanwhile Bancroft offered him a clerkship in the Charlestown Navy Yard, which
he declined. He was sufficiently sure of success to make him remove from Concord to Salem to
reside, and early in October he was established again in the old chamber of his youth, having
decided to share his mother's house for the present. He spent his time in writing the introductory
sketch of the Old Manse, and in seeing the "Mosses" through the press. The appointment lagged,
owing to local complications in the party, but an arrangement was finally made which was agreeable
to all concerned, so that Hawthorne took office without enmity from disappointed candidates
who would have benefited if he had not appeared upon the scene backed by what must have been
locally regarded as outside interference. He received notice of his nomination as surveyor
on March 23, 1846, and it was described "as decidedly popular with the party," as well as with
men of letters and the community; he soon took charge of the office, those who had made way
for him were appointed inspectors under him, and he entered on the enjoyment of a salary of
twelve hundred dollars.

It was indeed a singular chance of life that had transformed the recluse romancer of the silent
Herbert Street house, where for all the years of early manhood he had lived unnoticed and almost
unknown, into the high business official of the Custom House, the lofty neighbor of that humble
dwelling, on whose wide granite steps, columned portico, and emblematic eagle, with the flag
over all, he must have looked so often with never a thought that there was to be his distinguished
place in the world of men; and yet Hawthorne, on coming into this office, seems to have been
pleased with a sense of making a part of Salem as his ancestors had done in the old days. He
did not love Salem, but genuine truth gives body to those passages of autobiography in which
he claims his parentage and kinship and seems writing the obituary of his race there, in connection
with his memories of the Custom House. He knew himself a story-teller whom these ancestors
would little approve, for all his mask as the surveyor, but in his official place he felt himself
a Salemite with some peculiar thoroughness; and, familiar as the passage is, no other words
can take the place of his own expression of this sense of rootedness in the soil, which is
so close to the secret of his genius:--

"This old town of Salem--my native place, though I have dwelt much away from it, both in boyhood
and maturer years--possesses, or did possess, a hold on my affections, the force of which I
have never realized during my seasons of actual residence here. Indeed, so far as its physical
aspect is concerned, with its flat, unvaried surface, covered chiefly with wooden houses, few
or none of which pretend to architectural beauty,--its irregularity, which is neither picturesque
nor quaint, but only tame,--its long and lazy street lounging wearisomely through the whole
extent of the peninsula, with Gallows Hill and New Guinea at one end, and a view of the almshouse
at the other,--such being the features of my native town, it would be quite as reasonable to
form a sentimental attachment to a disarranged checkerboard. And yet, though invariably happiest
elsewhere, there is within me a feeling for old Salem, which, in lack of a better phrase, I
must be content to call affection. The sentiment is probably assignable to the deep and aged
roots which my family has struck into the soil. It is now nearly two centuries and a quarter
since the original Briton, the earliest emigrant of my name, made his appearance in the wild
and forest-bordered settlement, which has since become a city. And here his descendants have
been born and died, and have mingled their earthly substance with the soil, until no small
portion of it must necessarily be akin to the mortal frame wherewith, for a little while, I
walk the streets. In part, therefore, the attachment which I speak of is the mere sensuous
sympathy of dust for dust. Few of my countrymen can know what it is; nor, as frequent transplantation
is perhaps better for the stock, need they consider it desirable to know.

"But the sentiment has likewise its moral quality. The figure of that first ancestor, invested
by family tradition with a dim and dusky grandeur, was present to my boyish imagination, as
far back as I can remember. It still haunts me, and induces a sort of home-feeling with the
past, which I scarcely claim in reference to the present phase of the town. I seem to have
a stronger claim to a residence here on account of this grave, bearded, sable-cloaked and steeple-crowned
progenitor,--who came so early, with his Bible and his sword, and trode the unworn street with
such a stately port, and made so large a figure, as a man of war and peace,--a stronger claim
than for myself, whose name is seldom heard and my face hardly known. He was a soldier, legislator,
judge; he was a ruler in the Church; he had all the Puritanic traits, both good and evil. He
was likewise a bitter persecutor, as witness the Quakers, who have remembered him in their
histories, and relate an incident of his hard severity towards a woman of their sect, which
will last longer, it is to be feared, than any record of his better deeds, although these were
many. His son, too, inherited the persecuting spirit, and made himself so conspicuous in the
martyrdom of the witches, that their blood may fairly be said to have left a stain upon him.
So deep a stain, indeed, that his old dry bones, in the Charter Street burial-ground, must
still retain it, if they have not crumbled utterly to dust!... Let them scorn me as they will,
strong traits of their nature have intertwined themselves with mine.

"Planted deep, in the town's earliest infancy and childhood, by these two earnest and energetic
men, the race has ever since subsisted here,-- always, too, in respectability; never, so far
as I have known, disgraced by a single unworthy member; but seldom or never, on the other hand,
after the first two generations, performing any memorable deed, or so much as putting forward
a claim to public notice. Gradually, they have sunk almost out of sight, as old houses, here
and there about the streets, get covered halfway to the eaves by the accumulation of new soil.
The boy, also, in due time, passed from the forecastle to the cabin, spent a tempestuous manhood,
and returned from his world-wanderings, to grow old, and die, and mingle his dust with the
natal earth. This long connection of a family with one spot, as its place of birth and burial,
creates a kindred between the human being and the locality, quite independent of any charm
in the scenery or moral circumstances that surround him. It is not love, but instinct. The
new inhabitant--who came himself from a foreign land, or whose father or grandfather came--has
little claim to be called a Salemite; he has no conception of the oysterlike tenacity with
which an old settler, over whom his third century is creeping, clings to the spot where his
successive generations have been imbedded. It is no matter that the place is joyless for him;
that he is weary of the old wooden houses, the mud and dust, the dead level of site and sentiment,
the chill east wind, and the dullest of social atmospheres,--all these, and whatever faults
besides he may see or imagine, are nothing to the purpose. The spell survives, and just as
powerfully as if the natal spot were an earthly paradise. So has it been in my case. I felt
it almost as a destiny to make Salem my home; so that the mould of features and cast of character
which had all along been familiar here--ever, as one representative of the race lay down in
his grave, another assuming, as it were, his sentry-march along the main street--might still
in my little day be seen and recognized in the old town.... On emerging from the Old Manse,
it was chiefly this strange, indolent, unjoyous attachment for my native town that brought
me to fill a place in Uncle Sam's brick edifice, when I might as well, or better, have gone
somewhere else. My doom was on me."

Long as this extract is, it dispenses with pages of critical analysis, and the hundred details
requisite to build up such an impression of ancestry from the soil, of the way in which the
New England past had entered into the fibre of Hawthorne's nature, of the sort of historic
consciousness that was latent, like clairvoyance, in his imagination. Here, too, it serves
to give Hawthorne a natural right in his new public place in the community. He did not feel
himself a stranger there; the floor of the Custom House was as much home to his feet as a ship's
deck. He made, it is said, a good surveyor, as in Boston previously he had been an excellent
under officer. His duties were not arduous; they consumed about three hours and a half of his
day, leaving him ample leisure. He has himself made of his stay at the Custom House a half
humorous story by drawing the characters of his associates and setting forth the general atmosphere
of the place with such lifelike drollery as only genius can achieve. He does it with no kindly
hand. He was capable of great irritation, at times; and, as was shown on rare occasions, he
had outbursts of anger. Dr. Loring describes him as "tempestuous and irresistible when aroused,"
and tells the anecdote of one dismayed captain who "fled up the wharf and took refuge in the
office, inquiring, 'What in God's name have you sent on board my ship as an inspector?'" In
writing of his old associates satirically, he was not indulging in any rage of anger, but he
would hardly have felt the impulse to give his pen such liberty unless grievances had still
rankled in his memory. The scene he sets forth is one of burlesque, done like fiction. "On
ascending the steps you would discern," he says, "a row of venerable figures, sitting in old-fashioned
chairs, which were tipped on their hind legs back against the wall. Oftentimes they were asleep,
but occasionally might be heard talking together, in voices between speech and a snore, and
with that lack of energy that distinguishes the occupants of almshouses, and all other human
beings who depend for subsistence on charity, on monopolized labor, or anything else but their
own independent exertions. These old gentlemen--seated, like Matthew, at the receipt of customs,
but not very liable to be summoned thence, like him, for apostolic errands--were Custom House
officers." When he comes to the details, in this style, the portrait approaches--if it does
not realize--caricature. There was another side, we may be sure, to the lives and characters
of these men whom Hawthorne has portrayed as if human nature existed to be the pigment of an
artist's brush and should laugh or weep, look silly or solemn, at the whim of his temperament
and will. All the time he got on with them very amiably, and if he found some of them in his
own silent thoughts rather foolish and superfluous, doubtless it would have been the same in
any other group among whom his lot might have been thrown. With others of his associates, whatever
he thought of them and their ways, he was friendly and tolerant, if not sociable; it was in
connection with these that the gossip circulated of his "loafing about with hard drinkers."
Dr. Loring describes them to the life as "a group of men all of whom had remarkable characteristics,
not of the best many times, but original, strong, highly-flavored, defiant democrats, with
whom he was officially connected, who made no appeal to him, but responded to the uncultivated
side of his nature, and to whose defects he was blind on account of their originality." This
picture must be added to that which Hawthorne gave, and between the two, if some allowance,
also, be made for the unfavorable temper in which he wrote, it will appear, perhaps, that in
the Custom House he found human nature about as it is always in an office having to do with
sea business, in which naturally a rough, racy, unpolished, original, sturdy stock took a leading
part, and a place was found for the retired old hulks of the profession to enjoy a comfortable
anchorage.

Hawthorne, in fact, repeated in the Custom House the experience he had formerly had on the
Boston wharf and at Brook Farm. At first, the change was a pleasure and a relief to him. He
had once more escaped, if not from the dreamland of his own solitary fancy, at least from the
unreality which the literary life seems always to have had for him, and which he now associated
particularly with the character of his friendships. The tone of relief is unmistakable:--

"After my fellowship of toil and impracticable schemes with the dreamy brethren of Brook Farm;
after living for three years within the subtile influence of an intellect like Emerson's; after
those wild, free days on the Assabeth, indulging fantastic speculations, beside our fire of
fallen boughs, with Ellery Channing; after talking with Thoreau about pine-trees and Indian
relics, in his hermitage at Walden; after growing fastidious by sympathy with the classic refinement
of Hillard's culture; after becoming imbued with poetic sentiment at Longfellow's hearth-stone,--it
was time, at length, that I should exercise other faculties of my nature, and nourish myself
with food for which I had hitherto had little appetite. Even the old inspector was desirable,
as a change of diet, to a man who had known Alcott. I look upon it as an evidence, in some
measure, of a system naturally well balanced, and lacking no essential part of a thorough organization,
that, with such associates to remember, I could mingle at once with men of altogether different
qualities, and never murmur at the change."

So he mixed in the new scene, laughed with the others at the old sea-yarns and jokes, joined
in with his associates on more even terms than was his habit with the literary friends of Concord,
and was once more a part of this material world. But it was not long before the old disgust
and restlessness came over him; he felt his imaginative nature deadened; this after all was
not his own life, and the figures that moved in it, the business they were concerned with,
the existence they led round about him took on the same shabby color of fact that had formerly
spread over the coal and salt of the wharf, and the manure of Brook Farm; and that feeling
of repulsion from it all, which came to involve also a half-contempt for the people and their
affairs, grew in him. He describes the torpor that fell upon his faculties; he ceased to write,
just as in the earlier time; he could not create, and though he had time enough, and the sea
and the woods and the winter moonlight were all there, they did not unlock his magical power
as of old. He laments over it, but confesses it; he had temporarily ceased to be a man of letters.

Domestic affairs contributed to withhold him from his pen. The old Herbert Street house had
proved an inconvenient domicile for the two families, and they had removed to a dwelling in
Chestnut Street. For a while Mrs. Hawthorne had been absent in Boston, and there a boy, Julian,
had been born, so that there were two children in the nursery. It was in this room that Hawthorne
spent his afternoons, for he had no study, and there for a year his desk stood, says his wife,
without having been once opened. They moved again to another house, more easily adapted to
the needs of both households, in Mall Street, and here Hawthorne again had a study "high from
all noise," and Madame Hawthorne was provided for with a suite wholly separate. She and her
two daughters still maintained the lifelong habit of isolation. "Elizabeth," says Mrs. Hawthorne,
"is an invisible entity. I have seen her but once in two years; and Louisa never intrudes;"
and she adds her satisfaction in knowing that Madame Hawthorne would have the pleasure of her
son's and the children's company for the rest of her life. "I am so glad to win her out of
that Castle Dismal, and from the mysterious chamber into which no mortal ever peeped till Una
was born, and Julian,--for they alone have entered the penetralia. Into that chamber the sun
never shines. Into these rooms in Mall Street it blazes without stint." Mrs. Hawthorne was
very happy in this life with her husband, though they were still retired in their habits. He
had, however, become an officer of the Lyceum, and they attended the lectures. They went out
very seldom, only on such an occasion as when Emerson was visiting a neighbor, for example.
The happiness was all indoors and in their hearts. "No art nor beauty," the wife writes, "can
excel my daily life, with such a husband and such children, the exponents of all art and beauty.
I really have not even the temptation to go out of my house to find anything better." The husband
expresses the same felicity, in his turn, repeatedly, as on one occasion during a visit of
Mrs. Hawthorne in Boston. "Oh, Phoebe," he writes to her, "I want thee much. Thou art the only
person in the world that ever was necessary to me. Other people have occasionally been more
or less agreeable; but I think I was always more at ease alone than in anybody's company, till
I knew thee. And now I am only myself when thou art within my reach. Thou art an unspeakably
beloved woman."

They still spent their evenings together, mostly in reading. He never wrote at night, and for
a year and a half seems not to have written at all, except some slight unremembered article,
it might be, for a Salem newspaper. In November, 1847, he began to compose regularly every
afternoon. In the year following he produced "The Snow Image," "The Great Stone Face," "Main
Street," and possibly "Ethan Brand," but these, with the exception of the third, which appeared
in Elizabeth Peabody's "Aesthetic Papers," 1849, remained unpublished. He had exhausted himself
as a writer of short tales and sketches; the kind no longer appealed to him, and he wrote with
much difficulty and against the grain. "At length," he writes in a letter of literary business,
December 14, 1848, "by main strength I have wrenched and torn an idea out of my miserable brain;
or rather, the fragment of an idea, like a tooth ill-drawn, and leaving the roots to torture
me." His imagination had, in fact, begun to work upon a larger scale and in a higher world
of art, though he apparently did not know the change in scope that he was undergoing, and thought
of his new story only as a longer tale; the idea of "The Scarlet Letter," after lying for some
years in his brain, was unfolding in the form of a great romance. It was to be his resource
when the Custom House failed.

It was on June 8, 1849, that the news of his dismissal from office came. Tyler's Whig administration
had come in, and Democratic heads would naturally fall; but Hawthorne, having obtained office,
as he conceived it, as a literary man provided for by government, had not expected to be turned
out on the change of parties, especially as he was not a partisan or in fact a politician at
all. He resented the action, even when it was only threatened, as unjust, and took some steps
to secure himself in place by suggesting an appeal to men in Boston, among whom he mentions
Rufus Choate, "whose favorable influence," he says, "would make it impossible to remove me,
and whose support and sympathy might fairly be obtained on my behalf,--not on the ground that
I am a very good writer, but because I gained my position, such as it is, by my literary character,
and have done nothing to forfeit that tenure." When he found, however, that he had been removed,
ostensibly at least, on the ground of a paper forwarded from Salem and charging him with political
partisanship, both as a writer for the newspaper press and in his official capacity, his resentment
became a much warmer feeling. The story of a removal from office is usually unedifying, and
there is no occasion to go into all the details. It appears that one man, Charles W. Upham,
was especially singled out by Hawthorne as the principal mover, and on him he deliberately
avenged himself at a later time. The charges Hawthorne met very fully and specifically, and
showed that he had indeed rather incurred the reproach of his party for not taking a partisan
course than deserved the criticism of his enemies. He was, however, very angry; his wife writes
to her father, "The lion was roused in him;" and the numerous letters to his friends show that
he was much disturbed, but much more by what he regarded as the attack made secretly upon his
character than by the loss of the office. There was a small tempest in the town, in which his
friends male and female bore their part, and plans of one kind and another were discussed to
secure his retention; but, as usually happens in such cases, the affair soon blew over. In
a political scuffle, Hawthorne was a man out of his element.

The most unfortunate thing in the whole incident was the effect it had on Hawthorne's attachment
to his native place. It turned his cold love to a bitter feeling that he never overcame; and
it also threw upon Salem the reproach of having injured as well as neglected her most famous
son. Citizens of both parties joined in the movement by which he was ousted, and no one of
influence withstood them; but there was probably no enmity in the matter, and the simple explanation,
perhaps, was that the new candidate had more cordial friends in the community on both sides,
for Hawthorne was not personally popular with the merchants as a class. He kept them at a distance
just as he did men of letters, and could not mix with them on even and frank terms. Dr. Loring,
in discussing the subject of Hawthorne's treatment by his fellow townsmen, very justly says
that "Salem did not treat its illustrious son, at all, because he gave it no opportunity."
He was, so far as then appeared, an author, forty-five years old, who had written two or three
books of short tales and sketches, not yet famous, and he held a not very lucrative public
office, which he had secured, not in the usual way, by party service, but by the political
influence of his old college mates, who were strangers to the town. He was inoffensive, but
he was not liked, and took no pains to make himself one of the community; he was ignored by
the citizens of the place because he ignored them, and when his Washington friends lost power,
there was no one else interested in keeping him in office, and he had no influence of his own
on the spot. In private life he was uncommonly solitary, and he was in no sense a public man.
What happened was perfectly natural, and might fairly have been foreseen; for the notion of
providing a government post for a man because he was an author, and retaining him in it by
a literary tenure, must have seemed very novel to the gentlemen of the Essex district in those
days, as it would seem now. But Hawthorne had the sense of superiority, the silent, suppressed
pride, the susceptibility of a solitary nature; and whatever might be the public side of the
matter, of which he was no very good judge, privately he felt aggrieved and outraged; that
irritability toward the general public which has already been remarked upon, just because he
was "for some years the most obscure man of letters in America," was condensed, as it were,
and discharged upon Salem, which stood as the deaf and blind and hateful embodiment of the
unappreciative world that would have none of him, but rather took away the little bread and
salt he had contrived to earn for himself, and would not give him room even in a paltry office
among the old sea-dogs he has described. "I mean as soon as possible," he writes two months
later, "to bid farewell forever to this abominable city."

Apart from the disagreeable circumstances of his removal and the penniless condition in which
it left him, there is no reason to think that Hawthorne was anything but happy to leave office.
His first thought was of his poverty; before he had laid down the telegram he heard the wolf
at the door. He at once wrote the news to Hillard, and after saying that he had paid his old
debts but had saved nothing, requests his friendly aid in words through which, brief and straight
as they are, one feels the stern grip of the fact as it immediately took hold on him, the poor
man's need:--

"If you could do anything in the way of procuring me some stated literary employment, in connection
with a newspaper, or as corrector of the press to some printing establishment, etc., it could
not come at a better time. Perhaps Epes Sargent, who is a friend of mine, would know of something.
I shall not stand upon my dignity; that must take care of itself. Perhaps there may be some
subordinate office connected with the Boston Athenaeum.

He went home at once to tell his wife, and as his son tells the story, on his meeting her expression
of pleasure at seeing him so soon with the remark that "he had left his head behind him," she
exclaimed, "Oh, then you can write your book!" and when he smiled and answered that it "would
be agreeable to know where their bread and rice were to come from while the story was writing,"
she brought forth from a hiding-place "a pile of gold"--it appears to have been one hundred
and fifty dollars--that she had saved from the household weekly expenses. So for the time being
anxiety was lessened.

The fact that Hawthorne was glad at heart to be free again comes out in many ways. Something
may be due to his wife's bearing the news "better than a man," perhaps, but on the same day
it came she is found writing to her mother, "I have not seen my husband happier than since
this turning out. He has felt in chains for a long time, and being a man he is not alarmed
at being set on his own feet again,--or on his head I might say, for that contains the available
gold of a mine scarcely yet worked at all." He himself, a few days later, writes to Hillard,
"I have come to feel that it is not good for me to be here. I am in a lower moral state than
I have been--a duller intellectual one. So let me go; and, under God's providence, I shall
arrive at something better." It would not be long before he would be looking back to the last
three years, and saying, "The life of the Custom House lies like a dream behind me," in almost
the identical words that he used of Boston wharfs and the Brook Farmers. The pendulum of temperament
had swung again to the other extreme, and he was now all for the imaginative world once more.

There was, however, to be one sad experience before his new life began. In the midst of these
troubles, while he was still writing his vain letters and receiving the vain sympathy of his
friends in the injury he had felt, his mother fell into serious illness, and it was plain that
the end of her long vigil was near. With that strange impulse which led Hawthorne, out of his
sensitive reserve and almost morbid seclusion, to make an open book of his private life, writing
it all at large in his journals, he spent the hours of her last days in describing the scenes
and incidents of the house in its shadow of death. His wife had the main care of the invalid,
and to him was left the charge of the children, Una and Julian, who played in the yard in the
warm July weather and were seized with the singular fancy of acting over in their play the
scenes of the sick chamber above, while their father watched them from the window of his room
and wrote down their prattle. Hawthorne was attached to his mother, and had been a good son,
but there was something now that startled his nature, perhaps in the unusual nearness in which
he found himself to her life, and he was hardly prepared for the distress of the circumstances.
His wife wrote, "My husband came near a brain fever after seeing her for an hour;" and the
hour is the one which Hawthorne himself recorded, in a passage vividly recalling the tone and
character of those scenes in which Carlyle painted the darker moments of his own shadow-haunted
life:--

"About five o'clock I went to my mother's chamber, and was shocked to see such an alteration
since my last visit. I love my mother; but there has been, ever since boyhood, a sort of coldness
of intercourse between us, such as is apt to come between persons of strong feelings if they
are not managed rightly. I did not expect to be much moved at the time,--that is to say, not
to feel any overpowering emotion struggling just then,--though I knew that I should deeply
remember and regret her. Mrs. Dike was in the chamber; Louisa pointed to a chair near the bed,
but I was moved to kneel down close by my mother, and take her hand. She knew me, but could
only murmur a few indistinct words; among which I understood an injunction to take care of
my sisters. Mrs. Dike left the chamber, and then I found the tears slowly gathering in my eyes.
I tried to keep them down, but it would not be; I kept filling up, till, for a few moments,
I shook with sobs. For a long time I knelt there, holding her hand; and surely it is the darkest
hour I ever lived. Afterwards I stood by the open window and looked through the crevice of
the curtain. The shouts, laughter, and cries of the two children had come up into the chamber
from the open air, making a strange contrast with the death-bed scene. And now, through the
crevice of the curtain, I saw my little Una of the golden locks, looking very beautiful, and
so full of spirit and life that she was life itself. And then I looked at my poor dying mother,
and seemed to see the whole of human existence at once, standing in the dusty midst of it."

The next day the children continued the play--they have never left it off--of their grandmother's
death-bed, and Hawthorne writes it all down in his journal with minute realism. His genius
felt some appeal in it that let him go on unchecked in the transcript of baby-life mocking
death in all innocence and unwitting:--

"Now Una is transformed into grandmamma, and Julian is mamma taking care of her. She groans,
and speaks with difficulty, and moves herself feebly and wearisomely; then lies perfectly still,
as if in an insensible state; then rouses herself and calls for wine; then lies down on her
back with clasped hands; then puts them to her head. It recalls the scene of yesterday to me
with frightful distinctness; and out of the midst of it little Una looks at me with a smile
of glee. Again, Julian assumes the character. 'You're dying now,' says Una; 'so you must lie
still,'"--and so the journal goes on through the slow quarter-hours, till it stops when Madame
Hawthorne's heart ceased to beat.

The death of his mother removed the last and only reason for Hawthorne's continuing to reside
in Salem, but he remained there through the summer and winter. He was hard at work on "The
Scarlet Letter," perhaps being more absorbed in it than he ever was in any other of his compositions.
It was a time of much trouble in every way. There was sickness in the family, he was himself
afflicted with pain, and his wife's sister Elizabeth Peabody seems to have come to the rescue
of domestic comfort for the household. O'Sullivan, the kind-hearted editor of the defunct "Democratic
Review," bethought himself of his old debt to Hawthorne and sent him a hundred dollars; so
the purse was replenished. It was in early winter that the cheerful personality of James T.
Fields, the publisher, appeared on the scene, and it was a fortunate hour for Hawthorne that
brought such an appreciative, enthusiastic, and faithful friend to his door. Fields was just
the man to warm Hawthorne's genius into action,--cordial, whole-souled, and happily not so
much a man of letters as to repel him with that alienation which he certainly felt in his contact
with authors by profession like Emerson and his other contemporaries. Fields was, too, in a
very real sense, the messenger and herald of fame standing at last in the humble doorway of
the Mall Street house that had latterly been the scene of such a tangle of human events.

The romance that was thus captured was not yet in the form which it finally took. Hawthorne
had conceived it as a rather longer tale of the same sort that he had previously written, and
designed to make it one story in a new collection such as his former volumes had been. He thought
it was too gloomy to stand alone, and in fact did not suspect that here was a new kind of work,
such that it would put an end forever to his old manner of writing. He intended to call the
new volume "Old-Time Legends: together with Sketches, Experimental and Ideal,"--a title that
is fairly ghostly with the transcendental nonage of his genius, pale, abstract, ineffectual,
with oblivion lurking in every syllable. Fields knew better than that. But he gave him something
more than advice; he cheered him with his extravagant appreciation, as it seemed to Hawthorne,
and invigorated him by a true sympathy with his success. Fields urged that the story be elaborated,
filled out, and made into a single volume; and, under this wise suggestion, Hawthorne went
to work upon it with renewed interest and with something probably of the power of a new ambition.

His friends, too, had come to his aid with material assistance, and apart from the fact that
he was thus enabled to go on with the labor of composition, free from the immediate pressure
of poverty and its trials of the spirit, he was stimulated by their confidence and kindness
to do all he could for himself. Hillard was the medium of this friendliness, and accompanied
the considerable sum of money with a letter, January 17, 1850:--

"It occurred to me and some other of your friends that, in consideration of the events of the
last year, you might at this time be in need of a little pecuniary aid. I have therefore collected,
from some of those who admire your genius and respect your character, the enclosed sum of money,
which I send you with my warmest wishes for your health and happiness. I know the sensitive
edge of your temperament; but do not speak or think of obligation. It is only paying, in a
very imperfect measure, the debt we owe you for what you have done for American Literature.
Could you know the readiness with which every one to whom I applied contributed to this little
offering, and could you have heard the warm expressions with which some accompanied their gift,
you would have felt that the bread you had cast upon the waters had indeed come back to you.
Let no shadow of despondency, my dear friend, steal over you. Your friends do not and will
not forget you. You shall be protected against 'eating cares,' which, I take it, mean cares
lest we should not have enough to eat."

Kindly as this letter was, it could only temper what was for Hawthorne a rough and bitter experience;
for he had, in intense form, that proud independence in such matters which characterizes the
old New England stock. It is sweet to be remembered and cared for by one's friends--some of
whom know me for what I am, while others, perhaps, know me only through a generous faith--sweet
to think that they deem me worth upholding in my poor work through life. And it is bitter,
nevertheless, to need their support. It is something else besides pride that teaches me that
ill-success in life is really and justly a matter of shame. I am ashamed of it, and I ought
to be. The fault of a failure is attributable--in a great degree at least--to the man who fails.
I should apply this truth in judging of other men; and it behooves me not to shun its point
or edge in taking it home to my own heart. Nobody has a right to live in the world unless he
be strong and able, and applies his ability to good purpose. He read the last scene to his
wife, just after writing it, on that evening,--"tried to read it, rather," he wrote to Bridge
the next day, "for my voice swelled and heaved, as if I were tossed up and down on an ocean
as it subsides after a storm. But I was in a very nervous state then, having gone through a
great diversity of emotion while writing it for many months." He had, indeed, put his whole
energy into the book, writing "immensely," says his wife in the previous autumn, as much as
nine hours a day. He now felt the reaction, and besides he had a less healthy regimen of life
than hitherto, and had fallen into middle-age habits of lowered physical tone, less active
now in his out-door life these last three or four years. He continues in the letter to Bridge,
just quoted: "I long to get into the country, for my health latterly is not quite what it has
been for many years past. I should not long stand such a life of bodily inactivity and mental
exertion as I have lived for the last few months. An hour or two of daily labor in a garden,
and a daily ramble in country air, or on the sea-shore, would keep all right. Here, I hardly
go out once a week. Do not allude to this matter in your letters to me, as my wife already
sermonizes me quite sufficiently on my habits; and I never own up to not feeling perfectly
well. Neither do I feel anywise ill; but only a lack of physical vigor and energy, which reacts
upon the mind." "The Scarlet Letter" [Footnote: The Scarlet Letter. A Romance. By Nathaniel
Hawthorne. Boston: Ticknor, Reed and Fields. 1850. 12mo. Pp. iv, 322.] was already in the publisher's
hands, before the last scene was written, and was rapidly put through the press. It was issued
early in April in an edition of five thousand copies, which was soon exhausted; a new edition
followed at once, and Hawthorne's fame was at last established.

"The Scarlet Letter" is a great and unique romance, standing apart by itself in fiction; there
is nothing else quite like it. Of all Hawthorne's works it is most identified with his genius
in popular regard, and it has the peculiar power that is apt to invest the first work of an
author in which his originality finds complete artistic expression. It is seldom that one can
observe so plainly the different elements that are primary in a writer's endowment coalesce
in the fully developed work of genius; yet in this romance there is nothing either in method
or perception which is not to be found in the earlier tales; what distinguishes it is the union
of art and intuition as they had grown up in Hawthorne's practice and had developed a power
to penetrate more deeply into life. Obviously at the start there is the physical object in
which his imagination habitually found its spring, the fantastically embroidered scarlet letter
on a woman's bosom which he had seen in the Puritan group described in "Endicott and the Red
Cross." It had been in his mind for years, and his thoughts had centred on it and wandered
out from it, tracking its mystery. It has in itself that decorative quality, which he sought
in the physical object,--the brilliant and rich effect, startling to the eye and yet more to
the imagination as it blazes forth with a secret symbolism and almost intelligence of its own.
It multiplies itself, as the tale unfolds, with greater intensity and mysterious significance
and dread suggestion, as if in mirrors set round about it,--in the slowly disclosed and fearful
stigma on the minister's hidden heart over which he ever holds his hand, where it has become
flesh of his flesh; in the growing elf-like figure of the child, who, with her eyes always
fastened on the open shame of the letter on her mother's bosom or the hidden secret of the
hand on her father's breast, has become herself the symbol, half revealed and half concealed,
is dressed in it, as every reader remembers, and fantastically embodies it as if the thing
had taken life in her; and, as if this were not enough, the scarlet letter, at a climax of
the dark story, lightens forth over the whole heavens as a symbol of what cannot be hid even
in the intensest blackness of night. The continual presence of the letter seems to have burnt
into Hawthorne's own mind, till at the end of the narrative he says he would gladly erase its
deep print from the brain where long meditation had fixed it. In no other work is the physical
symbol so absorbingly present, so reduplicated, so much alive in itself. It is the brand of
sin on life. Its concrete vividness leads the author also by a natural compulsion as well as
an artistic instinct to display his story in that succession of high-wrought scenes, tableaux,
in fact, which was his characteristic method of narrative, picturesque, pictorial, almost to
be described as theatrical in spectacle. The background, also, as in the early tales, is of
the slightest, no more than will suffice for the acting of the drama as a stage setting sympathetic
with the central scene,--a town, with a prison, a meeting-house, a pillory, a governor's house,
other habitations on a street, a lonely cottage by the shore, the forest round about all; and
for occasion and accessories, only a woman's sentence, the incidental death of Winthrop unmarked
in itself, a buccaneering ship in the harbor, Indians, Spanish sailors, rough matrons, clergy;
this will serve, for such was Hawthorne's fine economy, knowing that this story was one in
which every materialistic element must be used at its lowest tone. Though the scene lay in
this world, it was but transitory scaffolding; the drama was one of the eternal life.

The characteristic markings of Hawthorne's genius are also to be found in other points. He
does not present the scene of life, the crowd of the world with its rich and varied fullness
of interest, complexity of condition and movement, and its interwoven texture of character,
event, and fate, such as the great novelists use; he has only a few individual figures, and
these are simplified by being exhibited, not in their complete lives, but only in that single
aspect of their experience which was absorbing to themselves and constituted the life they
lived in the soul itself. There are three characters, Hester, the minister, and the physician;
and a fourth, the child, who fulfills the function of the chorus in the old drama, in part
a living comment, in part a spectator and medium of sympathy with the main actors. In all four
of these that trait of profound isolation in life, so often used before in the earlier tales,
is strongly brought out; about each is struck a circle which separates not only one from another,
but from all the world, and in the midst of it, as in a separate orb, each lives an unshared
life. It is inherent, too, in such a situation that the mystery that had fascinated Hawthorne
in so many forms, the secrecy of men's bosoms, should be a main theme in the treatment. He
has also had recourse to that method of violent contrast which has been previously illustrated;
on the one hand the publicity of detected wrongdoing, on the other the hidden and unsuspected
fact; here the open shame and there the secret sin, whose sameness in a double life is expressed
by the identity of the embroidered letter and the flesh-wrought stigma. But it is superfluous
to illustrate further the genesis of this romance out of Hawthorne's art and matter in his
earlier work, showing how naturally it rose by a concentration of his powers on a single theme
that afforded them scope, intensity, and harmony at once. The new thing here is the power of
his genius to penetrate, as was said above, deep into life.

The romance begins where common tales end. The crime has been committed; in it, in its motives,
circumstances, explanation, its course of passion and human tide of life, Hawthorne takes no
interest. All that is past, and, whatever it was, now exists only as sin; it has passed from
the region of earthly fact into that of the soul, out of all that was temporal into the world
where eternal things only are. Not crime, not passion, not the temptation and the fall, but
only sin now staining the soul in consequence is the theme; and the course of the story concerns
man's dealing with sin, in his own breast or the breasts of others. It is a study of punishment,
of vengeance if one will; this is the secret of its gloom, for the idea of salvation, of healing,
is but little present and is not felt; there is no forgiveness in the end, in any sense to
dispel the darkness of evil or promise the dawn of new life in any one of these tortured souls.
The sin of the lovers is not the centre of the story, but only its initial source; that sin
breeds sin is the real principle of its being; the minister is not punished as a lover, but
as the hypocrite that he becomes, and the physician is punished as the revenger that he becomes.
Hester's punishment is visibly from the law, and illustrates the law's brutality, the coarse
hand of man for justice, the mere physical blow meant to hurt and crush; it is man's social
way of dealing with sin, and fails because it makes no connection with the soul; the victim
rises above it, is emancipated from its ideas, transforms the symbol of disgrace into a message
of mercy to all who suffer, and annuls the gross sentence by her own higher soul-power. The
minister's punishment, also, is visibly from the physician, who illustrates man's individual
way of dealing with sin in another; but it is not the minister's suffering under the hand of
revenge working subtly in secret that arrests our attention; it is the physician's own degeneracy
into a devil of hate through enjoyment of the sight and presence of this punishment, that stamps
him into the reader's mind as a type of the failure of such a revenge. "Vengeance is mine,
saith the Lord" is the text here blazed forth. In the sphere of the soul human law and private
revenge have no place. It is in that sphere that Hester is seen suffering in the touch of the
child, being unable to adjust the broken harmonies of life; her incapacity to do that is the
ever-present problem that keeps her wound open, not to be stanched, but rather breaking with
a more intimate pain with the unfolding of little Pearl's wide-eyed soul. In that sphere, too,
the minister is seen suffering--not for the original sin, for that is overlaid, whelmed, forgotten,
by the second and heavier transgression of hypocrisy, cowardice, desertion,--but merely from
self-knowledge, the knowledge that he is a living lie. The characters, so treated, become hardly
more than types, humanly outlined in figure, costume, and event, symbolic pictures of states
of the soul, so simplified, so intense, so elementary as to belong to a phantasmagoric rather
than a realistic world, to that mirror of the soul which is not found in nature but in spiritual
self-consciousness, where the soul is given back to itself in its nakedness, as in a secret place.

Yet it is in the sense of reality that this romance is most intense. It is a truthful story,
above all; and only its truth could make it tolerable to the imagination and heart, if indeed
it be tolerable to the heart at all. A part of this reality is due to the fact that there is
a story here that lies outside of the moral scheme in which Hawthorne's conscious thought would
confine it; the human element in it threatens from time to time to break the mould of thought
and escape from bondage, because, simple as the moral scheme is, human life is too complex
to be solved by it even in this small world of the three guilty ones and the child. This weakness
of the moral scheme, this rude strength of human nature, this sense of a larger solution, are
most felt when Hawthorne approaches the love element, and throughout in the character of Hester,
in whom alone human nature retains a self-assertive power. The same thing is felt vaguely,
but certainly, in the lack of sympathy between Hawthorne and the Puritan environment he depicts.
He presents the community itself, its common people, its magistrates and clergy, its customs,
temper, and atmosphere, as forbidding, and he has no good word for it; harshness characterizes
it, and that trait discredits its ideals, its judgments, and its entire interpretation of life.
Hester, outcast from it, is represented as thereby enfranchised from its narrowness, enlightened,
escaped into a world of larger truth:--

"The world's law was no law for her mind. It was an age in which the human intellect, newly
emancipated, had taken a more active and a wider range than for many centuries before. Men
of the sword had overthrown nobles and kings. Men bolder than these had overthrown and rearranged--not
actually, but within the sphere of theory, which was their most real abode--the whole system
of ancient prejudice, wherewith was linked much of ancient principle. Hester Prynne imbibed
this spirit. She assumed a freedom of speculation, then common enough on the other side of
the Atlantic, but which our forefathers, had they known it, would have held to be a deadlier
crime than that stigmatized by the scarlet letter. In her lonesome cottage, by the sea-shore,
thoughts visited her, such as dared to enter no other dwelling in New England; shadowy guests,
that would have been as perilous as demons to their entertainer, could they have been seen
so much as knocking at her door."

This is the foregleam of the next age, felt in her mind, the coming of a larger day. Hawthorne
does not develop this or justify it; he only states it as a fact of life. And in the motive
of the story, the love of Hester and Arthur, much is left dim; but what is discerned threatens
to be unmanageable within the limits of the scheme. Did Hester love her lover, and he love
her, through those seven years in silence? Did either of them ever repent their passion for
its own sake? And when Hester's womanhood came back in its bloom and her hair fell shining
in the forest sunlight, and she took her lover, hand and head and form, in all his broken suffering
to her affectionate care and caress, and planned the bold step that they go out together across
the seas and live in each other's lives like lovers in truth and reality,--was this only the
resurrection of a moment or the firm vital force of a seven years' silent passion? Had either
of them ever repented, though one was a coward and the other a condemned and public criminal
before the law, and both had suffered? Was not the true sin, as is suggested, the source of
all this error, the act of the physician who had first violated Hester's womanhood in a loveless
marriage as he had now in Arthur's breast "violated in cold blood the sanctity of a human heart"?
"Thou and I," says Arthur, "never did so." The strange words follow, strange for Hawthorne
to have written, but better attesting his truth to human nature than all his morality:--

"Never, never!" whispered she. "What we did had a consecration of its own. We felt it so! We
said so to each other! Hast thou forgotten it?"

"Hush, Hester!" said Arthur Dimmesdale, rising from the ground. "No; I have not forgotten!"

That confession is the stroke of genius in the romance that humanizes it with a thrill that
is felt through every page of the stubborn, dark, harsh narrative of misery. It was not a sin
against love that had been committed; it was a sin against the soul; and the sin against the
soul lay in the lack of confession, which becomes the cardinal situation of the romance solved
in the minister's dying acknowledgment. But the love problem is never solved, just as the hate
problem in the physician is never solved; both Hester and Roger Chillingworth, one with her
mystery of enduring love, the other with his mystery of insatiable hatred, are left with the
issue, the meaning of their lives inexplicable, untold. Yet it is from the presence of these
elements in the story that something of its intense reality comes.

It remains true, however, that the essential reality lies in the vivid sense of sin, and its
experience in conscience. Hawthorne has not given a historical view of New England life; such
a village, with such a tragedy, never existed, in that environing forest of the lone seacoast;
but he has symbolized historical New England by an environment that he created round a tragedy
that he read in the human heart, and in this tragedy itself he was able also to symbolize New
England life in its internal features. One thing stood plainly out in our home Puritanism,--spirituality;
the transcendent sense of the reality of the soul's life with God, its conscience, its perils,
and its eternal issue. Spirituality remained the inheritance of the New England blood; and
Hawthorne, who was no Puritan in doctrine or sympathy even, was Puritan in temperament, and
hence to him, too, spirituality in life was its main element. He took that sin of passion which
has ever been held typical of sin against the purity of the soul's nature, and transformed
it into the symbol of all sin, and in its manifestation revolved the aspects of sin as a presence
in the soul after the act,--the broken law disturbing life's external harmonies but working
a worse havoc within, mining all with corruption there, while it infects with disease whatever
approaches it from without. It is by its moral universality that the romance takes hold of
the imagination; the scarlet letter becomes only a pictorial incident, but while conscience,
repentance, confession, the modes of punishment, and the modes of absolution remain instant
and permanent facts in the life of the soul, many a human heart will read in this book as in
a manual of its own intimate hours.

The romance is thus essentially a parable of the soul's life in sin; in its narrower scope
it is the work of the moral intellect allegorizing its view of life; and where creative genius
enters into it, in the Shakespearean sense of life in its own right, it tends to be a larger
and truer story breaking the bonds of its religious scheme. It has its roots in Puritanism,
but it is only incidentally a New England tale; its substance is the most universal experience
of human nature in religious life, taking its forms only, its local habitation and name, from
the Puritan colony in America, and these in a merely allegorical, not historical manner. Certain
traits, however, ally it more closely to New England Puritanism. It is a relentless tale; the
characters are singularly free from self-pity, and accept their fate as righteous; they never
forgave themselves, they show no sign of having forgiven one another; even God's forgiveness
is left under a shadow in futurity. They have sinned against the soul, and something implacable
in evil remains. The minister's dying words drop a dark curtain over all.

"Hush, Hester, hush!" said he, with tremulous solemnity. "The law we broke!--the sin here so
awfully revealed!--let these alone be in thy thoughts! I fear! I fear! It may be that, when
we forgot our God,--when we violated our reverence each for the other's soul,--it was thenceforth
vain to hope that we could meet hereafter, in an everlasting and pure reunion."

Mercy is but a hope. There is also a singular absence of prayer in the book. Evil is presented
as a thing without remedy, that cannot change its nature. The child, even, being the fruit
of sin, can bring, Hester and Arthur doubt, no good for others or herself. In the scheme of
Puritan thought, however, the atonement of Christ is the perpetual miracle whereby salvation
comes, not only hereafter but in the holier life led here by grace. There is no Christ in this
book. Absolution, so far as it is hinted at, lies in the direction of public confession, the
efficacy of which is directly stated, but lamely nevertheless; it restores truth, but it does
not heal the past. Leave the dead past to bury its dead, says Hawthorne, and go on to what
may remain; but life once ruined is ruined past recall. So Hester, desirous of serving in her
place the larger truth she has come to know, is stayed, says Hawthorne, because she "recognized
the impossibility that any mission of divine and mysterious truth should be confided to a woman
stained with sin, bowed down with shame, or even burdened with a life-long sorrow." That was
never the Christian gospel nor the Puritan faith. Indeed, Hawthorne here and elsewhere anticipates
those ethical views which are the burden of George Eliot's moral genius, and contain scientific
pessimism. This stoicism, which was in Hawthorne, is a primary element in his moral nature,
in him as well as in his work; it is visited with few touches of tenderness and pity; the pity
one feels is not in him, it is in the pitiful thing, which he presents objectively, sternly,
unrelentingly. It must be confessed that as an artist he appears unsympathetic with his characters;
he is a moral dissector of their souls, minute, unflinching, thorough, a vivisector here; and
he is cold because he has passed sentence on them, condemned them. There is no sympathy with
human nature in the book; it is a fallen and ruined thing suffering just pain in its dying
struggle. The romance is steeped in gloom. Is it too much to suggest that in ignoring prayer,
the atonement of Christ, and the work of the Spirit in men's hearts, the better part of Puritanism
has been left out, and the whole life of the soul distorted? Sin in the soul, the scarlet flower
from the dark soil, we see; but, intent on that, has not the eye, and the heart, too, forgotten
the large heavens that ensphere all--even this evil flower--and the infinite horizons that
reach off to the eternal distance from every soul as from their centre? This romance is the
record of a prison-cell, unvisited by any ray of light save that earthly one which gives both
prisoners to public ignominy; they are seen, but they do not see. These traits of the book,
here only suggested, have kinship with the repelling aspects of Puritanism, both as it was
and as Hawthorne inherited it in his blood and breeding; so, in its transcendent spirituality,
and in that democracy which is the twin-brother of spirituality in all lands and cultures,
by virtue of which Hawthorne here humiliates and strips the minister who is the type of the
spiritual aristocrat in the community, there is the essence of New England; but, for all that,
the romance is a partial story, an imperfect fragment of the old life, distorting, not so much
the Puritan ideal--which were a little matter--but the spiritual life itself. Its truth, intense,
fascinating, terrible as it is, is a half-truth, and the darker half; it is the shadow of which
the other half is light; it is the wrath of which the other half is love. A book from which
light and love are absent may hold us by its truth to what is dark in life; but, in the highest
sense, it is a false book. It is a chapter in the literature of moral despair, and is perhaps
most tolerated as a condemnation of the creed which, through imperfect comprehension, it travesties.

With this book Hawthorne came into fame; but his fellow townsmen were ill pleased to find some
disrepute of their own accompanying his success. It is surely to be regretted that this was
the case; and, effective as his sketch of the Custom House is, one feels that Hawthorne stooped
in taking his literary revenge on his humble associates by holding them up to personal ridicule.
The tone of pleasantry veils ill feeling, which is expressed without cover in a letter he wrote
to Bridge a day or two before he left the town:--

"As to the Salem people, I really thought that I had been exceedingly good-natured in my treatment
of them. They certainly do not deserve good usage at my hands after permitting me to be deliberately
lied down--not merely once, but at two several attacks, on two false indictments-- without
hardly a voice being raised on my behalf; and then sending one of the false witnesses to Congress,
others to the Legislature, and choosing another as the mayor.

"I feel an infinite contempt for them--and probably have expressed more of it than I intended--for
my preliminary chapter has caused the greatest uproar that has happened here since witch-times.
If I escape from town without being tarred and feathered, I shall consider it good luck. I
wish they would tar and feather me; it would be such an entirely novel kind of distinction
for a literary man. And, from such judges as my fellow-citizens, I should look upon it as a
higher honor than a laurel crown."

He had said his farewell in the too famous sketch, with an ill grace, shaking the dust of his
native place from his feet, and frankly taking upon himself the character of the unappreciated
genius, which is seldom a becoming one. The passage fitly closes this chapter in which his
nativity, for better or worse, is most apparent.

"Soon my old native town will loom upon me through the haze of memory, a mist brooding over
and around it, as if it were no portion of the real earth, but an overgrown village in cloud-land,
with only imaginary inhabitants to people its wooden houses, and walk its homely lanes, and
the unpicturesque prolixity of its main street. Henceforth it ceases to be a reality of my
life. I am a citizen of somewhere else. My good townspeople will not much regret me; for--though
it has been as dear an object as any, in my literary efforts, to be of some importance in their
eyes, and to win myself a pleasant memory in this abode and burial-place of so many of my forefathers--there
has never been, for me, the genial atmosphere which a literary man requires, in order to ripen
the best harvest of his mind. I shall do better amongst other faces; and these familiar ones,
it need hardly be said, will do just as well without me."

VI.

LITERARY LABORS.

In the late spring of 1850 Hawthorne removed his family and household goods to the little red
cottage amid the Berkshire Hills which was to be a nature's hermitage to him for the next year
and a half. It was a story-and-a-half building, rude and simple, on a great hillside, commanding
a view of a small lake below and of beautiful low mountain horizons. Here began again that
secluded happy family life which had belonged to the Old Manse, and he was perhaps happier
than he had ever been. The home had the same internal look as of old, for he had brought with
him the relics of family furniture, the oriental objects from over sea that were heirlooms
from his father, and the Italian Madonnas, the casts and paintings with which his wife delighted
to surround the home-life in an atmosphere of artistic adornment and suggestion; and, as the
quarters were very small, the effect was one of mingled homeliness and refinement. Bridge soon
joined them, and devoted himself in a practical way to making things shipshape, providing necessary
closets and shelves out of packing boxes, and generally eking out the interior arrangements
with a sailor's ready ingenuity. Outside there was a barnyard, and a two-story hencoop to be
put to rights, with its brood of pet chickens each with its name,--Snowdrop, Crown Imperial,
Queenie, Fawn, and the like decorative appellations. The two children, Una and Julian, were
in a paradise. Other friends came, too, to visit or to call. Mrs. Hawthorne soon remarked that
they seemed to see more society than ever before. Herman Melville lived near by, at Pittsfield,
and became a welcome guest and companion, with his boisterous genuine intellectual spirits
and animal strength. Fanny Kemble made an interesting figure on her great black horse at the
gate. The Sedgwick neighbors were thoughtful and serviceable. O'Sullivan reappeared for a moment
in all his Celtic vivacity, and Fields, Holmes, Duyckinck, and others of the profession came
and went in the summer days. Hawthorne breathed the air of successful authorship at last, and
knew its vanities and its pleasures. The mail brought him new acquaintances, and now and then
a hero-worshiper lingered at the gate for a look. But as the warm days went by, and the frosts
came, he found himself in his old sheltering nook, in a place removed from the world, living
practically alone with his wife and children, though the increasing sense of friendliness in
the world cheered and warmed him.

He had, however, begun to age. He was forty-six years old, and the last year had told upon
him, with its various anxieties, excitement, and hard labor with the pen. He was more easily
fatigued, he was less robust and venturesome, less physically confident. He showed the changes
of time. On his arrival, "weary and worn," says his wife, "with waiting for a place to be,
to think, and to write in," he gave up with something like nervous fever; "his eyes looked
like two immense spheres of troubled light; his face was wan and shadowy, and he was wholly
uncomfortable." He soon recovered tone; but though he pleaded that his mind never worked well
till the frosts brought out the landscape's autumnal colors and had some similar alchemy for
his own brain, it was a needed rest that he enjoyed while giving and receiving these early
hospitalities in a new country. He even found the broad mountain view, with the lake in its
bosom, a distraction which made it hard for him to write in its presence. He had always been
used to narrow outlooks from his windows; even at the Old Manse the scene was small though
open. With the coming of the fall days, however, he again took up his writing, and showed how
stimulating to his ambition and energies the first taste of popularity had been. Indeed from
this time he was more productive than at any other period, and wrote regularly and successfully
as he had never before done. The scale of the novel gave more volume to his work of itself,
and its mere continuity sustained his effort; moreover the excitement of a new kind of work
was a strong stimulus. He now began to write novels, differently studied and composed from
his earlier stories, more akin to the usual narrative of fiction. "The Scarlet Letter," a work
of pure imagination, was the climax of his tales, the furthest reach of his romantic allegorizing
moral art in creation; but he now undertook to utilize his experience and observation in the
attempt to delineate life in its commoner and more realistic aspects of character and scene.
He began "The House of the Seven Gables" in September and finished it early in January. He
wrote regularly, but the story went on more slowly than he had hoped, requiring more care and
thought than "The Scarlet Letter," because the latter was all in one tone, while here there
was variety. He had to wait for the mood, at times; but the composition was really rapid, and
seemed slow only because he was used to the smaller scale of effort. The book was at once sent
to press and published in the spring. [Footnote: The House of The Seven Gables. A Romance.
By Nathaniel Hawthorne. Boston: Ticknor, Reed and Fields. 1851. 12mo. Pp. vi, 344.]

"The House of the Seven Gables" is a succession of stories bound together to set forth the
history of a family through generations under the aspect of an inherited curse which inheres
in the house itself. The origin of the curse and of the plot lies in the founder of the family,
Colonel Pyncheon, whose character, wrong-doing, and death make the first act; the second, which
is no more than an illustrative episode and serves to fill out the history of the house itself,
is the tale of Alice, the mesmerized victim of a later generation, in which the witchcraft
element of the first story is half rationalized; the third part, which these two lead up to
and explain, is the body of the novel, and contains the working out of the curse and its dissipation
in the marriage of the descendants of the Colonel and the old wizard Maule, from whose dying
lips it had come. The curse itself, "God will give him blood to drink," is made physical by
the fact that death comes to the successive heirs by apoplexy, an end which lends itself to
an atmosphere of secrecy, mysteriousness, and judgments; but the permanence of those traits
which made the Colonel's character harsh and harmful, his ambition, will-power, and cruelty,
gives moral probability to the curse and secures its operation as a thing of nature. There
is, nevertheless, a lax unity in the novel, owing to this dispersion of the action; and its
somewhat thin material in the contemporary part needs the strengthening and enrichment that
it derives from the historical elements. The series is united by the uncut thread of a vengeful
punishment that must continue until the original wrong itself shall disappear; but when that
happens, the Indian deed hidden behind the portrait is worthless, the male line is extinct,
and the house itself a thing of the past. The presence of the past in life, both as inheritance
and environment, is the moral theme, and here it is an evil past imparting misery to whomever
it touches. The old house is its physical sign and habitation; the inhabitants are its victims,
and in the later story they are innocent sufferers, as Alice had been in the intermediate time.

Such a canvas is one which Hawthorne loved to fill up with the shadowed lights, the melodramatic
coloring and fantastic decorativeness of his fancies. The characters are, as always, few. There
are but five of them, Hepzibah, Clifford, Phoebe, the daguerreotypist, and the Judge, with
the contributory figures of Uncle Venner and little Ned Higgins. They have also the constant
Hawthorne trait of great isolation, and live entirely within the world of the story. In sketching
them Hawthorne had recourse to real life, to observation, as also in all the contemporary background
and atmosphere. The substance and attraction of the novel lie in this fidelity to the life
he knew so minutely; for the plot, the crime, the curse, except in their own historical atmosphere,
in the Colonel and in Alice's story, interest us but little and languidly. It is, perhaps,
not refining too much to see in the novel a closer relationship to those earlier tales and
sketches which drew their matter from observation, were less imaginative, more realistic, and
belong to a less purely creative art. If "The Scarlet Letter" was the culmination of the finer
tales, "The House of the Seven Gables" is the climax of this less powerful, but more every-day
group of the familiar aspect of country life. It was, possibly, with some vague sense of this
that Hawthorne preferred this novel as one "more characteristic of my mind, and more proper
and natural for me to write;" it came from his more familiar self. He was able to introduce
into it that realistic detail concerning trifles which he delighted to record in his journals;
and the minute analysis which in the great romance he gave to the feelings and inner life of
pain, he here gives rather to the elaboration of the scene, to external things, to the surface
and texture of the physical elements. He has succeeded consequently in delineating and coloring
a picture of New England conditions with Dutch faithfulness, and this is the charm of the work.
It appeals, like life and memory themselves, to the people of that countryside, and goes to
their hearts like the sight of home. To others it can be only a provincial study, with the
attraction of such life in any land, and for them more dependent on its romantic setting, its
moral suggestion, and general human truth. Those who have the secret and are of kin to New
England, however, find in the mere description something that endears the book. The life of
the little back street, as it revives in Clifford's childishly pleased senses, with its succession
of morning carts, its scissor-grinder, and other incidents of the hour; the garden of flowers
and vegetables, with the Sunday afternoon in the ruinous arbor, the loaf of bread and the china
bowl of currants; the life of the immortal cent-shop, with its queer array, and its string
of customers jingling the bell; the hens, evidently transported from the great coop of the
Berkshire cottage, but with the value of an event in the novel,--all these things, with a hundred
other features that are each but a trifle, make up a glamour of reality that grows over the
whole book like the mosses on the house. In the characters themselves this local realism is
carried to the highest degree of truth, especially in Hepzibah, who in her half-vital state,
with her faded gentility and gentle, heroic heart of patient love, in all her outer queerness
and grotesquely thwarted life, is the most wholly alive of all of Hawthorne's characters; in
Phoebe, too, though in a different way, is the same truth, a life entirely real; and, on the
smaller scale, Uncle Venner is also to be reckoned a character perfectly done. Clifford is
necessarily faint, and does not interest one on his own account; he is pitiable, but his love
of the beautiful is too much sentimentalized to engage sympathy in the special way that Hawthorne
attempts, and one sees in him only the victim of life, the prisoner whom the law mistook and
outraged and left ruined; and Holgrave is no more than a spectator, mechanically necessary
to the action and useful in other ways, but he does not affect us as a character. There remains
Judge Pyncheon, on whom Hawthorne evidently exhausted his skill in the effort to make him repellent.
He is studied after the gentleman who was most active in the removal of Hawthorne from the
Custom House, and was intended to be a recognizable portrait of him in the community. Perhaps
the knowledge of this fact interferes with the proper effect of the character, since it makes
one doubt the truth of it. The practice of introducing real persons into literature as a means
of revenge by holding them up to detestation is one that seldom benefits either fiction or
truth; it was the ugliest feature of Pope's character, and it always affects one as unhandsome
treatment. In this instance it detracts from the sense of reality, inasmuch as one suspects
caricature. But taken without reference to the original, Judge Pyncheon is somewhat of a stage
villain, a puppet; his villainy is presented mainly in his physique, his dress and walk, his
smile and scowl, and generally in his demeanor; it is not actively shown, though the reader
is told many sad stories of his misbehaviour; even at the end, in the scene in which he comes
nearest to acting, the plot never gets further than a threat to do a cruel thing. In other
words it is a portrait that is drawn, not a character that is shown in its play of evil power
actually embodying itself in life. He is the bogy of the house, the Pyncheon type incarnated
in each generation; and when he sits dead in the old chair, he seems less an individual than
the Pyncheon corpse. In the long chapter which serves as his requiem, and in which there is
the suggestion of Dickens not in the best phase of his art, the jubilation is somewhat diabolic;
it affects one as if Hawthorne's thoughts were executing a dance upon a grave. The character
is too plainly hated by the author, and it fails to carry conviction of its veracity. Yet in
certain external touches and aspects it suggests the hypocrite who everywhere walks the streets,
placid, respectable, sympathetic in salutations, but bearing within a cold, gross, cruel, sensual,
and selfish nature which causes a shudder at every casual glimpse that betrays its lurking
hideousness. The character is thoroughly conceived, but being developed by description instead
of action, seems overdone; prosperity has made him too flabby to act, and kills him with a
fit as soon as he works himself up to play the role.

After all, the story in its contemporary phase is but a small part of the novel, which does
not much suffer even if the Judge in his youthful, hard-hearted, cowardly crime and the victim
in his aesthetic delicacy are both ineffective in making the impression the author aimed at.
The real scene is the singularly trivial and barren life of the old house, where nothing takes
place but the purchase of a Jim Crow, a breakfast of mackerel, a talk about chickens, gossip
with Uncle Venner, and the passing of a political procession in the street; and one too easily
forgets the marvelous art which could make such a life interesting and stimulating and engaging
to the affections, even with the aid of Hepzibah and Phoebe in their simpleness. What makes
the happiness of the story is to be found in these details, and in the century-old atmosphere
which Hawthorne has generated about them, compounding into one element the witchcraft memories,
the foreign horizons, the curse in the house, the threadbare gentility, the decay material
and spiritual, the odor of time, all of which he had absorbed from his Salem life; thence it
came that he was able to give to New England its only imaginative work that has ancestral quality.
All this, too, is distilled from the soil. Hawthorne felt in his own life the weight of this
past; its elements were familiar and near to him, so that his own family legend imparts coloring
to the tale and gives him sympathy with it; and in leaving Salem it was from such a past that
he desired to be free. He expresses himself, in these matters, through Holgrave, in his democratic
new life urging Hepzibah to abandon gentility and be proud of her cent shop as a genuine thing
in a practical and real world,--she would begin to live now at sixty, such was his narrowness
of youthful view; but the democratic sentiment is Hawthorne's. So, too, in his rhetorical impeachment
of the past, though the passage is meant to summarize the point of view of reform, there is
an emphasis such as sincerity gives:--

"'Shall we never, never get rid of this Past?' cried he, keeping up the earnest tone of his
preceding conversation. 'It lies upon the Present like a giant's dead body! In fact, the case
is just as if a young giant were compelled to waste all his strength in carrying about the
corpse of the old giant, his grandfather, who died a long while ago, and only needs to be decently
buried. Just think a moment, and it will startle you to see what slaves we are to bygone times,--to
Death, if we give the matter the right word!'

"'But I do not see it,' observed Phoebe.

"'For example, then,' continued Holgrave, 'a dead man, if he happen to have made a will, disposes
of wealth no longer his own; or, if he die intestate, it is distributed in accordance with
the notions of men much longer dead than he. A dead man sits on all our judgment-seats; and
living judges do but search out and repeat his decisions. We read in dead men's books! We laugh
at dead men's jokes, and cry at dead men's pathos! We are sick of dead men's diseases, physical
and moral, and die of the same remedies with which dead doctors killed their patients! We worship
the living Deity according to dead men's forms and creeds. Whatever we seek to do, of our own
free motion, a dead man's icy hand obstructs us! Turn our eyes to what point we may, a dead
man's white, immitigable face encounters them, and freezes our very heart! And we must be dead
ourselves before we can begin to have our proper influence on our own world, which will then
be no longer our world, but the world of another generation, with which we shall have no shadow
of a right to interfere. I ought to have said, too, that we live in dead men's houses; as,
for instance, in this of the Seven Gables!'"

This is in the form of dialogue; but Hawthorne's own attitude toward reform is clearly disclosed
in the analytic passages in which he discusses Holgrave, though it is observable that he embodies
no adverse criticism upon it in the character itself, as he was to do in his next novel. He
appears to take the same view of reform that is sometimes found in respect to prayer, that
it has great subjective advantages and is good for the soul, but is futile in the world of
fact. It was well for Holgrave, he says, to think as he did; this enthusiasm "would serve to
keep his youth pure and make his aspirations high," and he goes on with his own judgment on
the matter:--

"And when, with the years settling down more weightily upon him, his early faith should be
modified by inevitable experience, it would be with no harsh and sudden revolution of his sentiments.
He would still have faith in man's brightening destiny, and perhaps love him all the better,
as he should recognize his helplessness in his own behalf; and the haughty faith, with which
he began life, would be well bartered for a far humbler one at its close, in discerning that
man's best directed effort accomplishes a kind of dream, while God is the sole worker of realities."

This may be profound truth, as it is intended to be; but it needs no penetration to see here
a man whose sympathies with all kinds of those "come-outers" who then multiplied exceedingly
in his neighborhood, would be infinitesimal. He had not, however, yet engaged with this problem
so closely as he was to do. So far one would discern only that fatalistic and pessimistic trait
indicated by "The Scarlet Letter" and found in "The House of the Seven Gables" in the hard
conclusion that there was no remedy for the harm that had been done in the long past. The curse
was done with now, it is true, by the marriage of Phoebe and Holgrave, but for Clifford and
Hepzibah there was no amends for the lives the dead Judge had ruined by the aid of an imperfect
and blundering human law; they were wrecks, so Hawthorne represents it,--they had missed life's
happiness and were now in hospital, as it were, till they should die; but in their lives evil
had been triumphant, had made them innocent victims, and for this there was neither help nor
compensation. The irremediableness of the breach that sin makes in the soul had been preached
in "The Scarlet Letter;" here is the other half of the truth, as Hawthorne saw it, the irremediableness
of the injury done to others. So far as the book has ethical meaning it lies in the implacability
of the uncanceled wrong lingering as a curse, destroying the bad and blasting the good descendants
of the house, and presenting the mystery of evil as something positive, persisting, and unchecked
in its career. The moral element, nevertheless, lies well in the background and is overlaid
with romantic and legendary features; its hatefulness in the main story is not the principal
theme; and the novel pleases and succeeds, not by these traits, but by its humble realism,
its delicate character-drawing, and that ancestral power which makes it the story of a house
long lived in.

On finishing this work Hawthorne took that rest which he always required after any great intellectual
exertion, and spent the time with his children and wife. His second daughter, Rose, was born
in the spring. A happier childhood seldom gets into books than that which appears in the reminiscences
of this small family, whether they were in Salem, or Berkshire, or Liverpool. Hawthorne lived
much with his children, and he had the habit of observing them minutely and writing down the
history of their little lives in his journals. All winter their play and recreation, their
sayings and adventures and habits, diversified the Berkshire days; they thrived on "the blue
nectared air," and had rosy cheeks and abounding spirits, and their heads were stuffed with
fairy tales. The year was a glorious one in Julian's memory, and the page he makes of it may
be taken as a leaf of his father's life at home, disclosing his daily life and home-nature,
as it was through years of domestic happiness. Hawthorne, indeed, is never so attractive as
when seen with the light of his children's eyes upon him:--

"He made those spring days memorable to his children. He made them boats to sail on the lake,
and kites to fly in the air; he took them fishing and flower-gathering, and tried (unsuccessfully
for the present) to teach them swimming. Mr. Melville used to ride or drive up, in the evenings,
with his great dog, and the children used to ride on the dog's back. In short, the place was
made a paradise for the small people. In the previous autumn, and still more in the succeeding
one, they all went nutting, and filled a certain disused oven in the house with such bags upon
bags of nuts as not a hundred children could have devoured during the ensuing winter. The children's
father displayed extraordinary activity and energy on these nutting expeditions; standing on
the ground at the foot of a tall walnut-tree, he would bid them turn their backs and cover
their eyes with their hands; then they would hear, for a few seconds, a sound of rustling and
scrambling, and, immediately after, a shout, whereupon they would uncover their eyes and gaze
upwards; and lo! there was their father--who but an instant before, as it seemed, had been
beside them--swaying and soaring high aloft on the topmost branches, a delightful mystery and
miracle. And then down would rattle showers of ripe nuts, which the children would diligently
pick up, and stuff into their capacious bags. It was all a splendid holiday; and they cannot
remember when their father was not their playmate, or when they ever desired or imagined any
other playmate than he."

The spirit of such a fatherhood, and all this delight in the children's world, was distilled
for the great multitude of other children in "The Wonder-Book" and its sequel "Tanglewood Tales."
From very early in his career he had written charming childhood sketches, of which "Little
Annie's Ramble" and "Little Daffydown-dilly" are easily recalled; and his association with
his wife's sister, Elizabeth Peabody, had directed his attention particularly to literature
for children, and "Grandfather's Chair" had been the result. Whenever he fell into discouragement
in respect to the earning capacity of his pen, his first thought was that he would write children's
books for a living. For some time he had meditated a volume which should adapt the classical
tales of mythology to the understanding and interests of such children as his own, and he now
put the plan in execution. He began "The Wonder-Book" with the summer, and finished it at one
effort in six weeks of June and July; the ease with which he accomplished the task indicates
how pleasurable it was, and well adapted to his sympathies and powers; and the result was very
successful, a book of sunshine from cover to cover. It [Footnote: A Wonder-Book for Girls and
Boys. By Nathaniel Hawthorne, with Engravings by Baker from designs by Billings. Boston: Ticknor,
Reed and Fields. 1852. 16mo. Pp. vi. 256.] was published in the fall, and was followed after
an interval by its second part, "Tanglewood Tales." [Footnote: Tanglewood Tales for Girls and
Boys. Being a Second Wonder-Book. By Nathaniel Hawthorne, with Fine Illustrations. Boston:
Ticknor, Reed and Fields. 1853. 16mo. Pp. 336.]

A multitude of children have loved these books, for whom their very names are a part of the
golden haze of memory; and, in view of the association of Hawthorne's genius and temperament
with quite other themes and the darker element in grown lives, this band of children make a
kind of halo round his figure. Whether the thing done should have been so done, whether Greek
should have been turned into Gothic, is a foolish matter. To please a child is warrant enough
for any work; and here romantic fancy plays around the beautiful forms and noble suggestion
of old heroic and divine life, and marries them to the hillside and fireside of New England
childhood with the naturalness of a fairy enchantment; these tales are truly transplanted into
the minds of the little ones with whose youngest tendrils of imagination they are intertwined.
To tear apart such tender fibres were a poor mode of criticism, for the living fact better
speaks for itself; and, in the case of the present writer, whose earliest recollection of the
great world of literature, his first dawn-glimpse of it, lying in dreamy beauty, was Bellerophon's
pool, the memory is potent and yields an appreciation not to be distilled in any other alembic.
Few facts are more fixed in his memory than that he was the child who watched the pool for
the tall boy with the shining bridle who was his strange friend from another world. If to wake
and feed the imagination and charm it, and fill the budding mind with the true springtime of
the soul's life in beautiful images, noble thoughts, and brooding moods that have in them the
infinite suggestion, be success for a writer who would minister to the childish heart, few
books can be thought to equal these; and the secret of it lies in the wondering sense which
Hawthorne had of the mystical in childhood, of that element of purity in being which is felt
also in his reverence for womanhood, and which, whether in child or woman, was typical of the
purity of the soul itself,--in a word, the spiritual sense of life. His imagination, living
in the child-sphere, pure, primitive, inexperienced, found only sunshine there, the freshness
of the early world; nor are there any children's books so dipped in morning dews.

On finishing "The Wonder-Book" Hawthorne devoted himself to life with Julian for three weeks,
during the absence of the rest of the family on a visit, and wrote a daily account of it with
such fullness that this history would fill a hundred pages of print. Some passages have been
published, and they illustrate how this amusement had taken the place of the earlier note-books
which recorded his observations of ordinary and even trivial life round about him. There may
be some wonder that a mind of Hawthorne's powers should find its play in such literary journalizing,
and the inference is ready that, when not at work in imagination, he was mentally unoccupied;
his intellectual interests were, however, always limited in scope, and his readings in the
evening to his wife were confined to pure literature; outside of such books he apparently had
no intellectual life, and his thoughts and affections found their exercise in the domestic
circle just as his eyes were engaged with the look of the landscape, the incidents of the road,
and the changes of the weather. His capacity for idleness was great, and as his vigor had already
somewhat waned his periods of repose were long. He undertook no new work during the summer,
but prepared for the press a new volume of tales, "The Snow Image," [Footnote: The Snow Image
and other Twice-Told Tales. By Nathaniel Hawthorne. Boston: Ticknor, Reed and Fields. 1852.
12mo, brown cloth. Pp. 273. The contents and source of the tales were as follows: The Snow
Image, International Review, November, 1850; The Great Stone Face, National Era, January 24,
1850; Main Street, AEsthetic Papers, 1849; Ethan Brand, Dollar Magazine, May, 1851; A Bell's
Biography, Knickerbocker Magazine, March, 1837; Sylph Etherege, Boston Token, 1838; The Canterbury
Pilgrims, Boston Token, 1833; No. I, Old News, New England Magazine, February, 1835; No. II,
The Old French War, March, 1835; No. III, The Old Tory, May, 1835; The Man of Adamant, Boston
Token, 1837; The Devil in Manuscript, New England Magazine, May, 1835; John Inglefield's Thanksgiving,
Democratic Review, March, 1840; Old Ticonderoga, Democratic Review, February, 1836; The Wives
of the Dead, Boston Token, 1832; Little Daffydowndilly, Boys' and Girls' Magazine, Boston,
1843; Major Molineux, Boston Token, 1832.] which was ready by the first of November and was
soon afterwards issued. It is made up of stories and sketches out of old periodicals, which
had not been gathered in the former collection, some of them dating from the beginning of his
career. Three, however, were later in composition, and were perhaps among those which he had
thought of binding up with "The Scarlet Letter," had that been issued according to his original
plan as one of several new tales. These stories require no comment, as the types to which they
belong are well marked. They were, in reality, his last trials of his art as a teller of tales.

Late in November, the family again removed to a new dwelling-place. The inland air had proved,
it was thought, less favorable to health than was expected, and except in the bracing months
of mid-winter Hawthorne found it enervating. He had been, however, very happy in Berkshire,
as happy probably as it was in his nature to be, and the distant beauty and near wildness of
the country had been attractive; the house, nevertheless, was very small, and he fretted at
its inconveniences, not in a disagreeable way, but desiring to have a house and home of his
own among more familiar scenes and within reach of the sea; he regarded the new move as a makeshift,
and settled in West Newton, a suburb of Boston, where his wife's family lived, until he should
purchase a place of his own. The change from the winter picturesqueness of Berkshire was marked,
but the village was of the usual New England type and his surroundings were not essentially
different from those he was accustomed to at Concord and Salem.

West Newton was near to Roxbury and the scenes of his rural experience at Brook Farm; but he
hardly needed to refresh his memory of the places and persons that had been so much a part
of his life ten years before. Brook Farm, as an experiment in the regeneration of society,
had run its course, and was gone; but much that was characteristic of it externally was now
to be transferred to the novel Hawthorne had in hand as his next work. "The Blithedale Romance"
Pp. viii, 288.] was written during the winter, and was finished as early as May, 1852, when
it was at once issued. It is the least substantial of any of his longer works. It lacks the
intensity of power that distinguishes "The Scarlet Letter," and the accumulated richness of
surface that belongs to "The House of the Seven Gables," due to the overlaying of story on
story in that epitome of a New England family history. "The Blithedale Romance," on the contrary,
has both less depth and less inclusiveness; and much of its vogue springs from the fact of
its being a reflection of the life of Brook Farm, which possesses an interest in its own right.
Hawthorne used his material in the direct way that was his custom, and transferred bodily to
his novel, to make its background and atmosphere, what he had preserved in his note-books or
memory from the period of his residence with the reformers. The April snowstorm in which he
arrived at the farm, his illness there, the vine-hung tree that he made his autumnal arbor,
the costume and habits, the fancy-dress party, the Dutch realism of the figure of Silas Foster,
and many another detail occur at once to the mind as from this origin; his own attitude is
sketched frankly in Miles Coverdale, and the germs of others of the characters, notably Priscilla,
are to be found in the same experience. The life of the farmhouse, however, is not of sufficient
interest in itself to hold attention very closely, and the socialistic experiment, after all,
is not the theme of the story; these things merely afford a convenient and appropriate ground
on which to develop a study of the typical reformer, as Hawthorne conceived him, the nature,
trials, temptations, and indwelling fate of such a man; and to this task the author addressed
himself. In the way in which he worked out the problem, he revealed his own judgment on the
moral type brought so variously and persistently under his observation by the wave of reform
that was so strongly characteristic of his times.

The characters are, as usual, few, and they have that special trait of isolation which is the
birthmark of Hawthorne's creations. Zenobia, Priscilla, and Hollingsworth are the trio, who,
each in an environment of solitude, make the essence of the plot by their mutual relations.
Zenobia is set apart by her secret history and physical nature, and Priscilla by her magnetic
powers and enslavement to the mesmerist; Hollingsworth is absorbed in his mission. It is unlikely
that Hawthorne intended any of these as a portrait of any real person, though as the seamstress
of Brook Farm gave the external figure of Priscilla, it may well be that certain suggestions
of temperament were found for the other two characters among his impressions of persons whom
he met. Neither Zenobia nor Priscilla, notwithstanding the latter's name, are essentially New
England characters; in each of them there is something alien to the soil, and they are represented
as coming from a different stock. Hollingsworth, on the other hand, is meant as a native type.
The unfolding of the story, and the treatment of the characters, are not managed with any great
skill. Hawthorne harks back to his old habits, and does so in a feebler way than would have
been anticipated. He interjects the short story of The Veiled Lady, for example, in the middle
of the narrative, as he had placed the tale of Alice in "The House of the Seven Gables," but
very ineffectively; it is a pale narrative and does not count visibly in the progress of the
novel, but only inferentially. He uses also the exotic flower, which Zenobia wears, as a physical
symbol, but it plays no part and is only a relic of his old manner. The description of the
performance in the country hall seems like an extract from one of the old annuals of the same
calibre as the Story-Teller's Exhibition. Mesmerism is the feebler substitute for the old witchcraft
element. In a word, the work is not well knit together, and the various methods of old are
weakly combined. One comes back to the moral situation as the centre of interest; and in it
he exhibits the reformer as failing in the same ways in which other egotists fail, for he perceives
in the enthusiasm of the humanitarian only selfishness, arrogance, intolerance in another form.
Hollingsworth, with the best of motives apparently, since his cause is his motive, as he believes,
is faithless to his associates and willing to wreck their enterprise because it stands in his
way and he is out of sympathy with it; he is faithless to Priscilla in so far as he accepts
Zenobia because she can aid him with her wealth, and on her losing her wealth he is faithless
to her in returning to Priscilla; he has lost the power to be true, in the other relations
of life, through his devotion to his cause. One feels that Hollingsworth is the victim of Hawthorne's
moral theory about him. It is true that at the end Hawthorne has secured in the character that
tragic reversal which is always effective, in the point that Hollingsworth, who set out to
be the friend and uplifter and saviour of the criminal classes, sees at last in himself the
murderer of Zenobia; but this is shown almost by a side-light, and not as the climax of the
plot, perhaps because the reader does not hold him guilty in any true sense of the disaster
which overtakes Zenobia. In its main situation, therefore, the plot, while it suggests and
illustrates the temptations and failures of a nature such as Hollingsworth's, does not carry
conviction. Description takes the place of action; much of Zenobia's life and of Hollingsworth's,
also, is left untold in the time after Coverdale left them; as in the case of Judge Pyncheon,
the wrong-doing is left much in the shadow, suggested, hinted at, narrated finally, but not
shown in the life; and such wrong-doing loses the edge of villainy. It might be believed that
Hollingsworth as a man failed; but as a typical man, as that reformer who is only another shape
of the selfish and heartless egotist sacrificing everything wrongfully to his philanthropic
end, it is not so easily believed that he must have failed; it is the absence of this logical
necessity that discredits him as a type, and takes out of his character and career the universal
quality. This, however, may be only a personal impression. The truth of the novel, on the ethical
side, may be plainer to others; it presents some aspects of moral truth, carefully studied
and probably observed, but they seem very partial aspects, and too incomplete to allow them,
taken all together, to be called typical. The power of the story lies rather in its external
realism, and especially in that last scene, which was taken from Hawthorne's experience at
Concord on the night when he took part in rescuing the body of the young woman who had drowned
herself; but with the exception of this last scene, and of some of the sketches that reproduce
most faithfully the life and circumstances of Brook Farm, the novel does not equal its predecessors
in the ethical or imaginative value of its material, in romantic vividness, or in the literary
skill of its construction. The elements of the story are themselves inferior; and perhaps Hawthorne
made the most of them that they were capable of; but his mind was antipathetic to his main
theme. His representation of the New England reformer is as partial as that of the Puritan
minister; both are depraved types, and in the former there is not that vivid truth to general
human nature which makes the latter so powerful a revelation of the sinful heart.

Hawthorne had purchased at some time during the winter, while at work upon this novel, the
house at Concord that he named The Wayside. It had belonged to Mr. Alcott, and was an ordinary
country residence with about twenty acres of ground, part of which was a wooded hillside rising
up steeply back of the house, which itself stood close to the road. The family took possession
of this new home early in June, and it soon took on the habitual look of their domicile, which,
wherever it might be, had a character of its own. Mrs. Hawthorne, as usual, was much pleased
with everything, and wrote an enthusiastic account of its prettiness and comfort, though no
important changes were then made in the house itself. She describes the "Study," and the passage,
which is in a letter to her mother, gives the very atmosphere of the place:--

"The study is the pet room, the temple of the Muses and the Delphic shrine. The beautiful carpet
lays the foundation of its charms, and the oak woodwork harmonizes with the tint in which Endymion
is painted. At last I have Endymion where I always wanted it--in my husband's study, and it
occupies one whole division of the wall. In the corner on that side stands the pedestal with
Apollo on it, and there is a fountain-shaped vase of damask and yellow roses. Between the windows
is the Transfiguration [given by Mr. Emerson]. (The drawing-room is to be redeemed with one
picture only,--Correggio's Madonna and Christ.) On another side of the Study are the two Lake
Comos. On another, that agreeable picture of Luther and his family around the Christmas-tree,
which Mr. George Bradford gave to Mr. Hawthorne. Mr. Emerson took Julian to walk in the woods,
the other afternoon. I have no time to think what to say, for there is a dear little mob around
me. Baby looks fairest of fair to-day. She walks miles about the house."

No words but her own do justice to the happiness of her married life. She worshiped her husband,
who always remained to her that combination of adorable genius and tender lover and strong
man that he had been ten years before when they were wedded. He had been on his part as devoted
to her, and especially he had never allowed the burden of poverty to fall upon her in any physical
hardship. In the absence of servants, for example, he himself did the work, and would not permit
her to task herself with it. He was never a self-indulgent man, except toward his genius; he
had early learned the lesson of "doing without," as the phrase is, and she describes him as
being "as severe as a Stoic about all personal comforts" and says he "never in his life allowed
himself a luxury." But I have never thought of him as in time, and so the Hours have nothing
to do with him.

This was written in the Berkshire days, but it represents her habitual feeling at all times;
and now, in the pleasant society of Concord and among the scenes which were endeared to their
memory as those of their early married life, this strain of happiness often overflows in her
letters like a flood of sunshine. "All that ground," she writes of the neighborhood of the
Old Manse, "is consecrated to me by unspeakable happiness; yet not nearly so great happiness
as I now have, for I am ten years happier in time, and an uncounted degree happier in kind.
I know my husband ten years better, and I have not arrived at the end; for he is still an enchanting
mystery, beyond the region I have discovered and made my own. Also, I know partly how happy
I am, which I did not well comprehend ten years ago."

One scene, out of scores that are contained in her correspondence, is too pretty and characteristic
to miss, and, besides, serves by a single glimpse to give the home life of this new Concord
sojourn with great vividness, yielding--what is the hardest of all to obtain in such intimate
views--its quality, like a tone of color. It describes Hawthorne's return from a three weeks'
absence at the Isles of Shoals during which he had also attended his class reunion at Bowdoin:--

"I put the vase of delicious rosebuds, and a beautiful China plate of peaches and grapes, and
a basket of splendid golden Porter apples on his table; and we opened the western door and
let in a flood of sunsetting. Apollo's 'beautiful disdain' seemed kindled anew. Endymion smiled
richly in his dream of Diana. Lake Como was wrapped in golden mist. The divine form in the
Transfiguration floated in light. I thought it would be a pity if Mr. Hawthorne did not come
that moment. As I thought this, I heard the railroad-coach--and he was here. He looked, to
be sure, as he wrote in one of his letters, 'twice the man he was.'"

Earlier in the summer this happy home had been shadowed by the tragedy of the death of Hawthorne's
sister, Louisa, who was lost in a steamship disaster on the Hudson. Like all such natures,
Hawthorne took his griefs hard and in loneliness; but in such a home healing influences were
all about him, and even such a sorrow, which he deeply felt, could only add another silence
to his life. His summer work, to which he had turned with reluctance and had rapidly finished
by the end of August, was the campaign biography of Franklin Pierce, his life-long friend,
who was now a candidate for the Presidency. It is a brief but sufficient book, [Footnote: Life
of Franklin Pierce. By Nathaniel Hawthorne. Boston: Ticknor, Reed and Fields. 1852. Pp. 144.
12mo.] done well though without distinction, and it holds no real place among his works. Much
adverse criticism has, however, been made upon him for writing it at all. It is thought that
as a man of letters he lost dignity by using his skill for a political end, and also that as
a Northerner he placed himself upon the wrong side in the important public questions then coming
to a great national crisis. This is an unjust view. It has already become plain, in the course
of the story of his life, that he was not a reformer nor in any real sympathy with reform.
He was not only not an abolitionist, which in itself, in view of the closeness of his association
with the friends of the cause, argues great immobility in his character; he was, on the contrary,
a Democrat in national politics, and took the party view of the slavery question, not with
any energy, but placidly and stolidly, so far as one can judge. In fact he took little or no
interest in the matter. There was no objection in his mind to writing the biography because
of Pierce's political position; he did not hesitate on that score. He did not hang back, on
the other hand, because he felt that he could not tell the truth about his friend in a book
pledged to see only the good in him. He was as honest as the granite, so far as that is concerned;
and he respected as well as loved his friend, and was quite willing to serve him by showing
his life and character as he knew them. He had no intention to deceive any one by a eulogy.
He indulged in no illusions about Pierce, nor about any of his other friends. He was, in fact,
an unsparing critic of men's characters, and he had a trait, not rare in New England,--a willingness
to underrate men and minimize them. His fellow-citizens are not natural hero-worshipers; to
them "a man is a man, for a' that," with an accent that levels down as well as up. Hawthorne
had to the full this democratic, familiar, derogatory temper. Pierce was to him a politician,
just as Cilley had been, and for politicians as a class he had a well-defined contempt. He
believed Pierce to be a man of honor, sagacity, and tact, a true man, not great in any way,
but quite the equal of other men in the country and fit in ability, experience, and character
to be President, if his fellow-citizens desired him to serve in that office. The biography
Hawthorne wrote contains no conscious untruth. It cannot be thought that Hawthorne compromised
with himself either with regard to the national question involved or to the personal character
of the candidate. His reluctance to write the book had no deeper root than a dislike to seem
to be paid for doing it by an office. He knew that Pierce would provide him with a lucrative
post in any case; and the public would say that office was his pay. The prospect of this situation
was so irksome to him that he decided beforehand to refuse the office, since he preferred rather
to do that than to decline the request of his friend to oblige him with his literary service
at such a crisis of his career. It is unjust to Hawthorne to suppose that the act had any political
complexion, or was anything else than a mere piece of friendliness, natural and proper in itself;
his association with the political group, of which Pierce was one, did not proceed from principle,
but was an accident of college companionship; the fact is, however strange it may seem, he
had no politics, but stood apart from the great antislavery cause just as he did from the transcendental
philosophy; neither of these two main movements in the life of his times touched him at all
in a personal way. It belongs to the shallowness of his objection to undertake the biography,
his dislike to take office as a kind of pay, that it was easily removed. Fields very sensibly
persuaded him that he should not neglect so favorable an opportunity to provide for his wife
and children, who had no support but his life. When the newly elected President, therefore,
offered him the best office in his gift, the Liverpool consulate, Hawthorne decided to take
it. The nomination was confirmed March 26, 1853; and, after sending "Tanglewood Tales" to the
press, which had been his winter's work, he prepared to leave Concord for a long residence abroad.

VII.

LIFE ABROAD.

