A large portion of the dry-farm territory of the United States is covered with sagebrush and
related plants. It is always a difficult and usually an expensive problem to clear sagebrush
land, for the shrubs are frequently from two to six feet high, correspondingly deep-rooted,
with very tough wood. When the soil is dry, it is extremely difficult to pull out sagebrush,
and of necessity much of the clearing must be done during the dry season. Numerous devices
have been suggested and tried for the purpose of clearing sagebrush land. One of the oldest
and also one of the most effective devices is two parallel railroad rails connected with heavy
iron chains and used as a drag over the sagebrush land. The sage is caught by the two rails
and torn out of the ground. The clearing is fairly complete, though it is generally necessary
to go over the ground two or three times before the work is completed. Even after such treatment
a large number of sagebrush clumps, found standing over the field, must be grubbed up with
the hoe. Another and effective device is the so-called "mankiller." This implement pulls up
the sage very successfully and drops it at certain definite intervals. It is, however, a very
dangerous implement and frequently results in injury to the men who work it. Of recent years
another device has been tried with a great deal of success. It is made like a snow plow of
heavy railroad irons to which a number of large steel knives have been bolted. Neither of these
implements is wholly satisfactory, and an acceptable machine for grubbing sagebrush is yet
to be devised. In view of the large expense attached to the clearing of sagebrush land such
a machine would be of great help in the advancement of dry-farming.

Away from the sagebrush country the virgin dry-farm land is usually covered with a more or
less dense growth of grass, though true sod is seldom found under dry-farm conditions. The
ordinary breaking plow, characterized by a long sloping moldboard, is the best known implement
for breaking all kinds of sod. (See Fig. 7a a.) Where the sod is very light, as on the far
western prairies, the more ordinary forms of plows may be used. In still other sections, the
dry-farm land is covered with a scattered growth of trees, frequently pinion pine and cedars,
and in Arizona and New Mexico the mesquite tree and cacti are to be removed. Such clearing
has to be done in accordance with the special needs of the locality.

Plowing

Plowing, or the turning over of the soil to a depth of from seven to ten inches for every crop,
is a fundamental operation of dry-farming. The plow, therefore, becomes one of the most important
implements on the dry-farm. Though the plow as an agricultural implement is of great antiquity,
it is only within the last one hundred years that it has attained its present perfection. It
is a question even to-day, in the minds of a great many students, whether the modern plow should
not be replaced by some machine even more suitable for the proper turning and stirring of the
soil. The moldboard plow is, everything considered, the most satisfactory plow for dry-farm
purposes. A plow with a moldboard possessing a short abrupt curvature is generally held to
be the most valuable for dry-farm purposes, since it pulverizes the soil most thoroughly, and
in dry-farming it is not so important to turn the soil over as to crumble and loosen it thoroughly.
Naturally, since the areas of dry-farms are very large, the sulky or riding plow is the only
kind to be used. The same may be said of all other dry-farm implements. As far as possible,
they should be of the riding kind since in the end it means economy from the resulting saving
of energy.

The disk plow has recently come into prominent use throughout the land. It consists, as is
well known, of one or more large disks which are believed to cause a smaller draft, as they
cut into the ground, than the draft due to the sliding friction upon the moldboard. Davidson
and Chase say, however, that the draft of a disk plow is often heavier in proportion to the
work done and the plow itself is more clumsy than the moldboard plow. For ordinary dry-farm
purposes the disk plow has no advantage over the modern moldboard plow. Many of the dry-farm
soils are of a heavy clay and become very sticky during certain seasons of the year. In such
soils the disk plow is very useful. It is also true that dry-farm soils, subjected to the intense
heat of the western sun become very hard. In the handling of such soils the disk plow has been
found to be most useful. The common experience of dry-farmers is that when sagebrush lands
have been the first plowing can be most successfully done with the disk plow, but that after.
the first crop has been harvested, the stubble land can be best handled with the moldboard
plow. All this, however, is yet to be subjected to further tests.

While subsoiling results in a better storage reservoir for water and consequently makes dry-farming
more secure, yet the high cost of the practice will probably never make it popular. Subsoiling
is accomplished in two ways: either by an ordinary moldboard plow which follows the plow in
the plow furrow and thus turns the soil to a greater depth, or by some form of the ordinary
subsoil plow. In general, the subsoil plow is simply a vertical piece of cutting iron, down
to a depth of ten to eighteen inches, at the bottom of which is fastened a triangular piece
of iron like a shovel, which, when pulled through the ground, tends to loosen the soil to the
full depth of the plow.

The subsoil plow does not turn the soil; it simply loosens the soil so that the air and plant
roots can penetrate to greater depths.

In the choice of plows and their proper use the dryfarmer must be guided wholly by the conditions
under which he is working. It is impossible at the present time to lay down definite laws stating
what plows are best for certain soils. The soils of the arid region are not well enough known,
nor has the relationship between the plow and the soil been sufficiently well established.
As above remarked, here is one of the great fields for investigation for both scientific and
practical men for years to come.

Making and maintaining a soil-mulch

After the land has been so well plowed that the rains can enter easily, the next operation
of importance in dry-farming is the making and maintaining of a soil-mulch over the ground
to prevent the evaporation of water from the soil. For this purpose some form of harrow is
most commonly used. The oldest and best-known harrow is the ordinary smoothing harrow, which
is composed of iron or steel teeth of various shapes set in a suitable frame. (See Fig. 79.)
For dry-farm purposes the implement must be so made as to enable the farmer to set the harrow
teeth to slant backward or forward. It frequently happens that in the spring the grain is too
thick for the moisture in the soil, and it then becomes necessary to tear out some of the young
plants. For this purpose the harrow teeth are set straight or forward and the crop can then
be thinned effectively. At other times it may be observed in the spring that the rains and
winds have led to the formation of a crust over the soil, which must be broken to let the plants
have full freedom of growth and development. This is accomplished by slanting the harrow teeth
backward, and the crust may then be broken without serious injury to the plants. The smoothing
harrow is a very useful implement on the dry-farm. For following the plow, however, a more
useful implement is the disk harrow, which is a comparatively recent invention. It consists
of a series of disks which may be set at various angles with the line of traction and thus
be made to turn over the soil while at the same time pulverizing it. The best dry-farm practice
is to plow in the fall and let the soil lie in the rough during the winter months. In the spring
the land is thoroughly disked and reduced to a fine condition. Following this the smoothing
harrow is occasionally used to form a more perfect mulch. When seeding is to be done immediately
after plowing, the plow is followed by the disk harrow, and that in turn is followed by the
smoothing harrow. The ground is then ready for seeding. The disk harrow is also used extensively
throughout the summer in maintaining a proper mulch. It does its work more effectively than
the ordinary smoothing harrow and is, therefore, rapidly displacing all other forms of harrows
for the purpose of maintaining a layer of loose soil over the dry-farm. There are several kinds
of disk harrows used by dry-farmers. The full disk is, everything considered, the most useful.
The cutaway harrow is often used in cultivating old alfalfa land; the spade disk harrow has
a very limited application in dry-farming; and the orchard disk harrow is simply a modlfication
of the full disk harrow whereby the farmer is able to travel between the rows of trees and
so to cultivate the soil under the branches of the trees without injuring the leaves or fruit.

One of the great difficulties in dry-farming concerns itself with the prevention of the growth
of weeds or volunteer crops. As has been explained in previous chapters, weeds require as much
water for their growth as wheat or other useful crops. During the fallow season, the farmer
is likely to be overtaken by the weeds and lose much of the value of the fallow by losing soil-moisture
through the growth of weeds. Under the most favorable conditions weeds are difficult to handle.
The disk harrow itself is not effective. The smoothing harrow is of less value. There is at
the present time great need for some implement that will effectively destroy young weeds and
prevent their further growth. Attempts are being made to invent such implements, but up to
the present without great success. Hogenson reports the finding of an implement on a western
dry-farm constructed by the farmer himself which for a number of years has shown itself of
high efficiency in keeping the dry-farm free from weeds. Several improved modifications of
this implement have been made and tried out on the famous dry-farm district at Nephi, Utah,
and with the greatest success. Hunter reports a similar implement in common use on the dry-farms
of the Columbia Basin. Spring tooth harrows are also used in a small way on the dry-farms.

They have no special advantage over the smoothing harrow or the disk harrow, except in places
where the attempt is made to cultivate the soil between the rows of wheat. The curved knife
tooth harrow is scareely ever used on dry-farms. It has some value as a pulverizer, but does
not seem to have any real advantage over the ordinary disk harrow.

Cultivators for stirring the land on which crops are growing are not used extensively on dry-farms.
Usually the spring tooth harrow is employed for this work. In dry-farm sections, where corn
is grown, the cultivator is frequently used throughout the season. Potatoes grown on dry-farms
should be cultivated throughout the season, and as the potato industry grows in the dry-farm
territory there will be a greater demand for suitable cultivators. The cultivators to be used
on dry-farms are all of the riding kind. They should be so arranged that the horse walking
between two rows carries a cultivator that straddles several rows of plants and cultivates
the soil between. Disks, shovels, or spring teeth may be used on cultivators. There is a great
variety on the market, and each farmer will have to choose such as meet most definitely his needs.

The various forms of harrows and cultivators are of the greatest importance in the development
of dry-farming. Unless a proper mulch can be kept over the soil during the fallow season, and
as far as possible during the growing season, first-class crops cannot be fully respected.

The roller is occasionally used in dry-farming, especially in the uplands of the Columbia Basin.
It is a somewhat dangerous implement to use where water conservation is important, since the
packing resulting from the roller tends to draw water upward from the lower soil layers to
be evaporated into the air. Wherever the roller is used, therefore, it should be followed immediately
by a harrow. It is valuable chiefly in the localities where the soil is very loose and light
and needs packing around the seeds to permit perfect germination.

Subsurface packing

The subsurface packer invented by Campbell is [shown in Figure 83--not shown--ed.]. The wheels
of this machine eighteen inches in diameter, with rims one inch thick at the inner part, beveled
two and a half inches to a sharp outer edge, are placed on a shaft, five inches apart. In practice
about five hundred pounds of weight are added.

This machine, according to Campbell, crowds a one-inch wedge into every five inches of soil
with a lateral and a downward pressure and thus packs firmly the soil near the bottom of the
plow-furrow. Subsurface packing aims to establish full capillary connection between the plowed
upper soil and the undisturbed lower soil-layer; to bring the moist soil in close contact with
the straw or organic litter plowed under and thus to hasten decomposition, and to provide a
firm seed bed.

The subsurface packer probably has some value where the plowed soil containing the stubble
is somewhat loose; or on soils which do not permit of a rapid decay of stubble and other organic
matter that may be plowed under from season to season. On such soils the packing tendency of
the subsurface packer may help prevent loss of soil water, and may also assist in furnishing
a more uniform medium through which plant roots may force their way. For all these purposes,
the disk is usually equally efficient.

Sowing

It has already been indicated in previous chapters that proper sowing is one of the most important
operations of the dry-farm, quite comparable in importance with plowing or the maintaining
of a mulch for retaining soil-moisture. The old-fashioned method of broadcasting has absolutely
no place on a dry-farm. The success of dry-farming depends entirely upon the control that the
farmer has of all the operations of the farm. By broadcasting, neither the quantity of seed
used nor the manner of placing the seed in the ground can be regulated. Drill culture, therefore,
introduced by Jethro Tull two hundred years ago, which gives the farmer full control over the
process of seeding, is the only system to be used. The numerous seed drills on the market all
employ the same principles. Their variations are few and simple. In all seed drills the seed
is forced into tubes so placed as to enable the seed to fall into the furrows in the ground.
The drills themselves are distinguished almost wholly by the type of the furrow opener and
the covering devices which are used. The seed furrow is opened either by a small hoe or a so-called
shoe or disk. At the present time it appears that the single disk is the coming method of opening
the seed furrow and that the other methods will gradually disappear. As the seed is dropped
into the furrow thus made it is covered by some device at the rear of the machine. One of the
oldest methods as well as one of the most satisfactory is a series of chains dragging behind
the drill and covering the furrow quite completely. It is, however, very desirable that the
soil should be pressed carefully around the seed so that germination may begin with the least
difficulty whenever the temperature conditions are right. Most of the drills of the day are,
therefore, provided with large light wheels, one for each furrow, which press lightly upon
the soil and force the soil into intimate contact with the seed The weakness of such an arrangement
is that the soil along the drill furrows is left somewhat packed, which leads to a ready escape
of the soil-moisture. Many of the drills are so arranged that press wheels may be used at the
pleasure of the farmer. The seed drill is already a very useful implement and is rapidly being
made to meet the special requirements of the dry-farmer. Corn planters are used almost exclusively
on dry-farms where corn is the leading crop. In principle they are very much the same as the
press drills. Potatoes are also generally planted by machinery. Wherever seeding machinery
has been constructed based upon the principles of dry-farming, it is a very advantageous adjunct
to the dry-farm.

Harvesting

The immense areas of dry-farms are harvested almost wholly by the most modern machinery. For
grain, the harvester is used almost exclusively in the districts where the header cannot be
used, but wherever conditions permit, the header is and should be used. It has been explained
in previous chapters how valuable the tall header stubble is when plowed under as a means of
maintaining the fertility of the soil. Besides, there is an ease in handling the header which
is not known with the harvester. There are times when the header leads to some waste as, for
instance, when the wheat is very low and heads are missed as the machine passes over the ground.
In many sections of the dry-farm territory the climatic conditions are such that the wheat
cures perfectly while still standing. In such places the combined harvester and thresher is
used. The header cuts off the heads of the grain, which are passed up into the thresher, and
bags filled with threshed grain are dropped along the path of the machine, while the straw
is scattered over the ground. Wherever such a machine can be used, it has been found to be
economical and satisfactory. Of recent years corn stalks have been used to better advantage
than in the past, for not far from one half of the feeding value of the corn crop is in the
stalks, which up to a few years ago were very largely wasted. Corn harvesters are likewise
on the market and are quite generally used. It was manifestly impossible on large places to
harvest corn by hand and large corn harvesters have, therefore, been made for this purpose.

Steam and other motive power

Recently numerous persons have suggested that the expense of running a dry-farm could be materially
reduced by using some motive power other than horses. Steam, gasoline, and electricity have
all been suggested. The steam traction engine is already a fairly well-developed machine and
it has been used for plowing purposes on many dry-farms in nearly all the sections of the dry-farm
territory. Unfortunately, up to the present it has not shown itself to be very satisfactory.
First of all it is to be remembered that the principles of dry-farming require that the topsoil
be kept very loose and spongy. The great traction engines have very wide wheels of such tremendous
weight that they press down the soil very compactly along their path and in that way defeat
one of the important purposes of tillage. Another objection to them is that at present their
construction is such as to result in continual breakages. While these breakages in themselves
are small and inexpensive, they mean the cessation of all farming operations during the hour
or day required for repairs. A large crew of men is thus left more or less idle, to the serious
injury of the work and to the great expense of the owner. Undoubtedly, the traction engine
has a place in dry-farming, but it has not yet been perfected to such a degree as to make it
satisfactory. On heavy soils it is much more useful than on light soils. When the traction
engine works satisfactorily, plowing may be done at a cost considerably lower than when horses
are employed.

In England, Germany, and other European countries some of the difficulties connected with plowing
have been overcome by using two engines on the two opposite sides of a field. These engines
move synchronously together and, by means of large cables, plows, harrows, or seeders, are
pulled back and forth over the field. This method seems to give good satisfaction on many large
estates of the old world. Macdonald reports that such a system is in successful operation in
the Transvaal in South Africa and is doing work there at a very knew cost. The large initial
cost of such a system will, of course, prohibit its use except on the very large farms that
are being established in the dry-farm territory.

Gasoline engines are also being tried out, but up to date they have not shown themselves as
possessing superior advantages over the steam engines. The two objections to them are the same
as to the steam engine: first, their great weight, which compresses in a dangerous degree the
topsoil and, secondly, the frequent breakages, which make the operation slow and expensive.

Over a great part of the West, water power is very abundant and the suggestion has been made
that the electric energy which can be developed by means of water power could be used in the
cultural operations of the dry-farm. With the development of the trolley car which does not
run on rails it would not seem impossible that in favorable localities electricity could be
made to serve the farmer in the mechanical tillage of the dry-farm.

The substitution of steam and other energy for horse power is yet in the future. Undoubtedly,
it will come, but only as improvements are made in the machines. There is here also a great
field for being of high service to the farmers who are attempting to reclaim the great deserts
of the world. As stated at the beginning of this chapter, dry-farming would probably have been
an impossibilityfifty or a hundred years ago because of the absence of suitable machinery.
The future of dry-farming rests almost wholly, so far as its profits are concerned, upon the
development of new and more suitable machinery for the tillage of the soil in accordance with
the established principles of dry-farming.

Finally, the recommendations made by Merrill may here be inserted. A dry-farmer for best work
should be supplied with the following implements in addition to the necessary wagons and hand
tools:--

One Plow. One Disk. One Smoothing Harrow. One Drill Seeder. One Harvester or Header. One Mowing
Machine.

CHAPTER XVI

IRRIGATION AND DRY-FARMING

Irrigation-farming and dry-farming are both systems of agriculture devised for the reclamation
of countries that ordinarily receive an annual rainfall of twenty inches or less. Irrigation-farming
cannot of itself reclaim the arid regions of the world, for the available water supply of arid
countries when it shall have been conserved in the best possible way cannot be made to irrigate
more than one fifth of the thirsty land. This means that under the highest possible development
of irrigation, at least in the United States, there will be five or six acres of unirrigated
or dry-farm land for every acre of irrigated land. Irrigation development cannot possibly,
therefore, render the dry-farm movement valueless. On the other hand, dry-farming is furthered
by the development of irrigation farming, for both these systems of agriculture are characterized
by advantages that make irrigation and dry-farming supplementary to each other in the successful
development of any arid region.

Under irrigation, smaller areas need to be cultivated for the same crop returns, for it has
been amply demonstrated that the acre yields under proper irrigation are very much larger than
the best yields under the most careful system of dry-farming. Secondly, a greater variety of
crops may be grown on the irrigated farm than on the dry-farm. As has already been shown in
this volume, only certain drouth resistant crops can be grown profitably upon dry-farms, and
these must be grown under the methods of extensive farming. The longer growing crops, including
trees, succulent vegetables, and a variety of small fruits, have not as yet been made to yield
profitably under arid conditions without the artificial application of water. Further, the
irrigation-farmer is not largely dependent upon the weather and, therefore, carries on this
work with a feeling of greater security. Of course, it is true that the dry years affect the
flow of water in the canals and that the frequent breaking of dams and canal walls leaves the
farmer helpless in the face of the blistering heat. Yet, all in all, a greater feeling of security
is possessed by the irrigation farmer than by the dry-farmer.

Most important, however, are the temperamental differences in men which make some desirous
of giving themselves to the cultivation of a small area of irrigated land under intensive conditions
and others to dry-farming under extensive conditions. In fact, it is being observed in the
arid region that men, because of their temperamental differences, are gradually separating
into the two classes of irrigation-farmers and dry-farmers. The dry-farms of necessity cover
much larger areas than the irrigated farms. The land is cheaper and the crops are smaller.
The methods to be applied are those of extensive farming. The profits on the investment also
appear to be somewhat larger. The very necessity of pitting intellect against the fierceness
of the drouth appears to have attracted many-men to the dry-farms. Gradually the certainty
of producing crops on dry-farms from season to season is becoming established, and the essential
difference between the two kinds of farming in the arid districts will then he the difference
between intensive and extensive methods of culture. Men will be attracted to one or other of
these systems of agriculture according to their personal inclinations.

The scarcity of water

For the development of a well-rounded commonwealth in an arid region it is, of course, indispensable
that irrigation be practiced, for dry-farming of itself will find it difficult to build up
populous cities and to supply the great variety of crops demanded by the modern family. In
fact, one of the great problems before those engaged in the development of dry-farming at present
is the development of homesteads in the dry-farms. A homestead is possible only where there
is a sufficient amount of free water available for household and stock purposes. In the portion
of the dry-farm territory where the rainfall approximates twenty inches, this problem is not
so very difficult, since ground water may be reached easily. In the drier portions, however,
where the rainfall is between ten and fifteen inches, the problem is much more important. The
conditions that bring the district under the dry-farm designation imply a scarcity of water.
On few dry-farms is water available for the needs of the household and the barns. In the Rocky
Mountain states numerous dry-farms have been developed from seven to fifteen miles from the
nearest source of water, and the main expense of developing these farms has been the hauling
of water to the farms to supply the needs of the men and beasts at work on them. Naturally,
it is impossible to establish homesteads on the dry-farms unless at least a small supply of
water is available; and dry-farming will never he what it might be unless happy homes can be
established upon the farms in the arid regions that grow crops without irrigation. To make
a dry-farm homestead possible enough water must be available, first of all, to supply the culinary
needs of the household. This of itself is not large and, as will be shown hereafter, may in
most cases be obtained. However, in order that the family may possess proper comforts, there
should be around the homestead trees, and shrubs, and grasses, and the family garden. To secure
these things a certain amount of irrigation water is required. It may be added that dry-farms
on which such homesteads are found as a result of the existence of a small supply of irrigation
water are much more valuable, in case of sale, than equally good farms without the possibility
of maintaining homesteads. Moreover, the distinct value of irrigation in producing a large
acre yield makes it desirable for the farmer to use all the water at his disposal for irrigation
purposes. No available water should be allowed to flow away unused.

Available surface water

The sources of water for dry-farms fall readily into classes: surface waters and subterranean
waters. The surface waters, wherever they may be obtained, are generally the most profitable.
The simplest method of obtaining water in an irrigated region is from some irrigation canal.
In certain districts of the intermountain region where the dry farms lie above the irrigation
canals and the irrigated lands below, it is comparatively easy for the farmers to secure a
small but sufficient amount of water from the canal by the use of some pumping device that
will force the water through the pipes to the homestead. The dry-farm area that may be so supplied
by irrigation canals is, however, very limited and is not to be considered seriously in connection
with the problem.

A much more important method, especially in the mountainous districts, is the utilization of
the springs that occur in great numbers over the whole dry-farm territory. Sometimes these
springs are very small indeed, and often, after development by tunneling into the side of the
hill, yield only a trifling flow. Yet, when this water is piped to the homestead and allowed
to accumulate in small reservoirs or cisterns, it may be amply sufficient for the needs of
the family and the live stock, besides having a surplus for the maintenance of the lawn, the
shade trees, and the family garden. Many dry-farmers in the intermountain country have piped
water seven or eight miles from small springs that were considered practically worthless and
thereby have formed the foundations for small village communities.

Of perhaps equal importance with the utilization of the naturally occurring springs is the
proper conservation of the flood waters. As has been stated before, arid conditions allow a
very large loss of the natural precipitation as run-off. The numerous gullies that characterize
so many parts of the dry-farm territory are evidences of the number and vigor of the flood
waters. The construction of small reservoirs in proper places for the purpose of catching the
flood waters will usually enable the farmer to supply himself with all the water needed for
the homestead. Such reservoirs may already be found in great numbers scattered over the whole
western America. As dry-farming increases their numbers will also increase.

When neither canals, nor springs, nor flood waters are available for the supply of water, it
is yet possible to obtain a limited supply by so arranging the roof gutters on the farm buildings
that all the water that falls on the roofs is conducted through the spouts into carefully protected
cisterns or reservoirs. A house thirty by thirty feet, the roof of which is so constructed
that all that water that falls upon it is carried into a cistern will yield annually under
a a rainfall of fifteen inches a maximum amount of water equivalent to about 8800 gallons.
Allowing for the unavoidable waste due to evaporation, this will yield enough to supply a household
and some live stock with the necessary water. In extreme cases this has been found to be a
very satisfactory practice, though it is the one to be resorted to only in case no other method
is available.

It is indispensable that some reservoir be provided to hold the surface water that may be obtained
until the time it may be needed. The water coming constantly from a spring in summer should
be applied to crops only at certain definite seasons of the year. The flood waters usually
come at a time when plant growth is not active and irrigation is not needed.

The rainfall also in many districts comes most largely at seasons of no or little plant growth.
Reservoirs must, therefore, be provided for the storing of the water until the periods when
it is demanded by crops. Cement-lined cisterns are quite common, and in many places cement
reservoirs have been found profitable. In other places the occurrence of impervious clay has
made possible the establishment and construction of cheap reservoirs. The skillful and permanent
construction of reservoirs is a very important subject. Reservoir building should be undertaken
only after a careful study of the prevailing conditions and under the advice of the state or
government officials having such work in charge. In general, the first cost of small reservoirs
is usually somewhat high, but in view of their permanent service and the value of the water
to the dry-farm they pay a very handsome interest on the investment. It is always a mistake
for the dry-farmer to postpone the construction of a reservoir for the storing of the small
quantities of water that he may possess, in order to save a little money. Perhaps the greatest
objection to the use of the reservoirs is not their relatively high cost, but the fact that
since they are usually small and the water shallow, too large a proportion of the water, even
under favorable conditions, is lost by evaporation. It is ordinarily assumed that one half
of the water stored in small reservoirs throughout the year is lost by direct evaporation.

Available subterranean water

Where surface waters are not readily available, the subterranean water is of first importance.
It is generally known that, underlying the earth's surface at various depths, there is a large
quantity of free water. Those living in humid climates often overestimate the amount of water
so held in the earth's crust, and it is probably true that those living in arid regions underestimate
the quantity of water so found. The fact of the matter seems to be that free water is found
everywhere under the earth's surface. Those familiar with the arid West have frequently been
surprised by the frequency with which water has been found at comparatively shallow depths
in the most desert locations. Various estimates have been made as to the quantity of underlying
water. The latest calculation and perhaps the most reliable is that made by Fuller, who, after
a careful analysis of the factors involved, concludes that the total free water held in the
earth's crust is equivalent to a uniform sheet of water over the entire surface of the earth
ninety-six feet in depth. A quantity of water thus held would be equivalent to about one hundredth
part of the whole volume of the ocean. Even though the thickness of the water sheet under arid
soils is only half this figure there is an amount, if it could be reached, that would make
possible the establishment of homesteads over the whole dry-farm territory. One of the main
efforts of the day is the determination of the occurrence of the subterranean waters in the
dry-farm territory.

Ordinary dug wells frequently reach water at comparatively shallow depths. Over the cultivated
Utah deserts water is often found at a depth of twenty-five or thirty feet, though many wells
dug to a depth of one hundred and seventy-five and two hundred feet have failed to reach water.
It may be remarked in this connection that even where the distance to the water is small, the
piped well has been found to be superior to the dug well. Usually, water is obtained in the
dry-farm territory by driving pipes to comparatively great depths, ranging from one hundred
feet to over one thousand feet. At such depths water is nearly always found. Often the geological
conditions are such as to force the water up above the surface as artesian wells, though more
often the pressure is simply sufficient to bring the water within easy pumping distance of
the surface. In connection with this subject it must be said that many of the subterranean
waters of the dry-farm territory are of a saline character. The amount of substances held in
solution varies largely, but frequently is far above the limits of safety for the use of man
or beast or plants. The dry-farmer who secures a well of this type should, therefore, be careful
to have a proper examination made of the constituents of the water before ordinary use is made
of it.

Now, as has been said, the utilization of the subterranean waters of the land is one of the
living problems of dry-farming. The tracing out of this layer of water is very difficult to
accomplish and cannot be done by individuals. It is a work that properly belongs to the state
and national government. The state of Utah, which was the pioneer in appropriating money for
dry-farm experiments, also led the way in appropriating money for the securing of water for
the dry-farms from subterranean sources. The world has been progressing in Utah since 1905,
and water has been secured in the most unpromising localities. The most remarkable instance
is perhaps the finding of water at a depth of about five hundred and fifty feet in the unusually
dry Dog Valley located some fifteen miles west of Nephi.

Pumping water

The use of small quantities of water on the dry-farms carries with it, in most cases, the use
of small pumping plants to store and to distribute the water properly. Especially, whenever
subterranean sources of water are used and the water pressure is not sufficient to throw the
water above the ground, pumping must be resorted to. The pumping of water for agricultural
purposes is not at all new. According to Fortier, two hundred thousand acres of land are irrigated
with water pumped from driven wells in the state of California alone. Seven hundred and fifty
thousand acres are irrigated by pumping in the United States, and Mead states that there are
thirteen million acres of land in India which are irrigated by water pumped from subterranean
sources. The dry-farmer has a choice among several sources of power for the operation of his
pumping plant. In localities where winds are frequent and of sufficient strength windmills
furnish cheap and effective power, especially where the lift is not very great. The gasoline
engine is in a state of considerable perfection and may be used economically where the price
of gasoline is reasonable. Engines using crude oil may be most desirable in the localities
where oil wells have been found. As the manufacture of alcohol from the waste products of the
farms becomes established, the alcohol-burning engine could become a very important one. Over
nearly the whole of the dry-farm territory coal is found in large quantities, and the steam
engine fed by coal is an important factor in the pumping of water for irrigation purposes.
Further, in the mountainous part of the dry-farm territory water Power is very abundant. Only
the smallest fraction of it has as yet been harnessed for the generation of the electric current.
As electric generation increases, it should be comparatively easy for the farmer to secure
sufficient electric power to run the pump. This has already become an established practice
in districts where electric power is available.

During the last few years considerable work has been done to determine the feasibility of raising
water for irrigation by pumping. Fortier reports that successful results have been obtained
in Colorado, Wyoming, and Montana. He declares that a good type of windmill located in a district
where the average wind movement is ten miles per hour can lift enough water twenty feet to
irrigate five acres of land. Wherever the water is near the surface this should be easy of
accomplishment. Vernon, Lovett, and Scott, who worked under New Mexico conditions, have reported
that crops can be produced profitably by the use of water raised to the surface for irrigation.
Fleming and Stoneking, who conducted very careful experiments on the subject in New Mexico,
found that the cost of raising through one foot a quantity of water corresponding to a depth
of one foot over one acre of land varied from a cent and an eighth to nearly twenty-nine cents,
with an average of a little more than ten cents. This means that the cost of raising enough
water to cover one acre to a depth of one foot through a distance of forty feet would average
$4.36. This includes not only the cost of the fuel and supervision of the pump but the actual
deterioration of the plant. Smith investigated the same problem under Arizona conditions and
found that it cost approximately seventeen cents to raise one acre foot of water to a height
of one foot. A very elaborate investigation of this nature was conducted in California by Le
Conte and Tait. They studied a large number of pumping plants in actual operation under California
conditions, and determined that the total cost of raising one acre foot of water one foot was,
for gasoline power, four cents and upward; for electric power, seven to sixteen cents, and
for steam, four cents and upward. Mead has reported observations on seventy-two windmills near
Garden City, Kansas, which irrigated from one fourth to seven acres each at a cost of seventy-five
cents to $6 per acre. All in all, these results justify the belief that water may be raised
profitably by pumping for the purpose of irrigating crops. When the very great value of a little
water on a dry-farm is considered, the figures here given do not seem at all excessive. It
must be remarked again that a reservoir of some sort is practically indispensable in connection
with a pumping plant if the irrigation water is to be used in the best way.

The use of small quantities of water in irrigation

Now, it is undoubtedly true that the acre cost of water on dry-farms, where pumping plants
or similar devices must be used with expensive reservoirs, is much higher than when water is
obtained from gravity canals. It is, therefore, important that the costly water so obtained
be used in the most economical manner. This is doubly important in view of the fact that the
water supply obtained on dry-farms is always small and insufficient for all that the farmer
would like to do. Indeed, the profit in storing and pumping water rests largely upon the economical
application of water to crops. This necessitates the statement of one of the first principles
of scientific irrigation practices, namely, that the yield of a crop under irrigation is not
proportional to the amount of water applied in the form of irrigation water. In other words,
the water stored in the soil by the natural precipitation and the water that falls during the
spring and summer can either mature a small crop or bring a crop near maturity. A small amount
of water added in the form of irrigation water at the right time will usually complete the
work and produce a well-matured crop of large yield. Irrigation should only be supplemented
to the natural precipitation. As more irrigation water is added, the increase in yield becomes
smaller in proportion to the amount of water employed. This is clearly shown by the following
table, which is taken from some of the irrigation experiments carried on at the Utah Station:--

Effect of Varying Irrigations on Crop Yields Per Acre

Depth of Water    Wheat      Corn       Alfalfa   Potatoes   Sugar Beets Applied (Inches) 
(Bushels)  (Bushels)  (Pounds)  (Bushels)  (Tons) 5.0               40                    
194        25 7.5               41         65 10.0              41         80             
213        26 15.0              46         78                   253        27 25.0        
49         77         10,056    258 35.0              55                    9,142     291 
26 50                60         84         13,061

The soil was a typical arid soil of great depth and had been so cultivated as to contain a
large quantity of the natural precipitation. The first five inches of water added to the precipitation
already stored in the soil produced forty bushels of wheat. Doubling this amount of irrigation
water produced only forty-one bushels of wheat. Even with an irrigation of fifty inches, or
ten times that which produced forty bushels, only sixty bushels of wheat, or an increase of
one half, were produced. A similar variation may be observed in the case of the other crops.
The first lesson to be drawn from this important principle of irrigation is that if the soil
be so treated as to contain at planting time the largest proportion of the natural precipitation,--that
is, if the ordinary methods of dry-farming be employed,--crops will be produced with a very
small amount of irrigation water. Secondly, it follows that it would be a great deal better
for the farmer who raises wheat, for instance, to cover ten acres of land with water to a depth
of five inches than to cover one acre to a depth of fifty inches, for in the former case four
hundred bushels and in the second sixty bushels of wheat would be produced. The farmer who
desires to utilize in the most economical manner the small amount of water at his disposal
must prepare the land according to dry-farm methods and then must spread the water at his disposal
over a larger area of land. The land must be plowed in the fall if the conditions permit, and
fallowing should be practiced wherever possible. If the farmer does not wish to fallow his
family garden he can achieve equally good results by planting the rows twice as far apart as
is ordinarily the case and by bringing the irrigation furrows near the rows of plants. Then,
to make the best use of the water, he must carefully cover the irrigation furrow with dry dirt
immediately after the water has been applied and keep the whole surface well stirred so that
evaporation will be reduced to a minimum. The beginning of irrigation wisdom is always the
storage of the natural precipitation. When that is done correctly, it is really remarkable
how far a small amount of irrigation water may be made to go.

Under conditions of water scarcity it is often found profitable to carry water to the garden
in cement or iron pipes so that no water may be lost by seepage or evaporation during the conveyance
of the water from the reservoir to the garden. It is also often desirable to convey water to
plants through pipes laid under the ground, perforated at various intervals to allow the water
to escape and soak into the soil in the neighborhood of the plant roots. All such refined methods
of irrigation should be carefully investigated by the who wants the largest results from his
limited water supply. Though such methods may seem cumbersome and expensive at first, yet they
will be found, if properly arranged, to be almost automatic in their operation and also very
profitable.

Forbes has reported a most interesting experiment dealing with the economical use of a small
water supply under the long season and intense water dissipating conditions of Arizona. The
source of supply was a well, 90 feet deep. A 3 by 14-inch pump cylinder operated by a 12-foot
geared windmill lifted the water into a 5000-gallon storage reservoir standing on a support
18 feet high. The water was conveyed from this reservoir through black iron pipes buried 1
or 2 feet from the trees to be watered. Small holes in the pipe 332 inch in diameter allowed
the water to escape at desirable intervals. This irrigation plant was under expert observation
for considerable time, and it was found to furnish sufficient water for domestic use for one
household, and irrigated in addition 61 olive trees, 2 cottonwoods, 8 pepper trees, 1 date
palm, 19 pomegranates, 4 grapevines, 1 fig tree, 9 eucalyptus trees, 1 ash, and 13 miscellancous,
making a total of 87 useful trees, mainly fruit-bearing, and 32 vines and bushes. (See Fig.
95.) If such a result can be obtained with a windmill and with water ninety feet below the
surface under the arid conditions of Arizona, there should be little difficulty in securing
sufficient water over the larger portions of the dry-farm territory to make possible beautiful
homesteads.

The dry-farmer should carefully avoid the temptation to decry irrigation practices. Irrigation
and dry-farming of necessity must go hand in hand in the development of the great arid regions
of the world. Neither can well stand alone in the building of great commonwealths on the deserts
of the earth.

CHAPTER XVII

THE HISTORY OF DRY-FARMING

The great nations of antiquity lived and prospered in arid and semiarid countries. In the more
or less rainless regions of China, Mesopotamia, Palestine, Egypt, Mexico, and Peru, the greatest
cities and the mightiest peoples flourished in ancient days. Of the great civilizations of
history only that of Europe has rooted in a humid climate. As Hilgard has suggested, history
teaches that a high civilization goes hand in hand with a soil that thirsts for water. To-day,
current events point to the arid and semiarid regions as the chief dependence of our modern
civilization.

In view of these facts it may be inferred that dry-farming is an ancient practice. It is improbable
that intelligent men and women could live in Mesopotamia, for example, for thousands of years
without discovering methods whereby the fertile soils could be made to produce crops in a small
degree at least without irrigation. True, the low development of implements for soil culture
makes it fairly certain that dry-farming in those days was practiced only with infinite labor
and patience; and that the great ancient nations found it much easier to construct great irrigation
systems which would make crops certain with a minimum of soil tillage, than so thoroughly to
till the soil with imperfect implements as to produce certain yields without irrigation. Thus
is explained the fact that the historians of antiquity speak at length of the wonderful irrigation
systems, but refer to other forms of agriculture in a most casual manner. While the absence
of agricultural machinery makes it very doubtful whether dry-farming was practiced extensively
in olden days, yet there can be little doubt of the high antiquity of the practice.

Kearney quotes Tunis as an example of the possible extent of dry-farming in early historical
days. Tunis is under an average rainfall of about nine inches, and there are no evidences of
irrigation having been practiced there, yet at El Djem are the ruins of an amphitheater large
enough to accommodate sixty thousand persons, and in an area of one hundred square miles there
were fifteen towns and forty-five villages. The country, therefore, must have been densely
populated. In the seventh century, according to the Roman records, there were two million five
hundred thousand acres of olive trees growing in Tunis and cultivated without irrigation. That
these stupendous groves yielded well is indicated by the statement that, under the Caesar's
Tunis was taxed three hundred thousand gallons of olive oil annually. The production of oil
was so great that from one town it was piped to the nearest shipping port. This historical
fact is borne out by the present revival of olive culture in Tunis, mentioned in Chapter XII.

Moreover, many of the primitive peoples of to-day, the Chinese, Hindus, Mexicans, and the American
Indians, are cultivating large areas of land by dry-farm methods, often highly perfected, which
have been developed generations ago, and have been handed down to the present day. Martin relates
that the Tarahumari Indians of northern Chihuahua, who are among the most thriving aboriginal
tribes of northern Mexico, till the soil by dry-farm methods and succeed in raising annually
large quantities of corn and other crops. A crop failure among them is very uncommon. The early
American explorers, especially the Catholic fathers, found occasional tribes in various parts
of America cultivating the soil successfully without irrigation. All this points to the high
antiquity of agriculture without irrigation in arid and semiarid countries.

Modern dry-farming in the United States

The honor of having originated modern dry-farming belongs to the people of Utah. On July 24th,
1847, Brigham Young with his band of pioneers entered Great Salt Lake Valley, and on that day
ground was plowed, potatoes planted, and a tiny stream of water led from City Creek to cover
this first farm. The early endeavors of the Utah pioneers were devoted almost wholly to the
construction of irrigation systems. The parched desert ground appeared so different from the
moist soils of Illinois and Iowa, which the pioneers had cultivated, as to make it seem impossible
to produce crops without irrigation. Still, as time wore on, inquiring minds considered the
possibility of growing crops without irrigation; and occasionally when a farmer was deprived
of his supply of irrigation water through the breaking of a canal or reservoir it was noticed
by the community that in spite of the intense heat the plants grew and produced small yields.

Gradually the conviction grew upon the Utah pioneers that farming without irrigation was not
an impossibility; but the small population were kept so busy with their small irrigated farms
that no serious attempts at dry-farming were made during the first seven or eight years. The
publications of those days indicate that dry-farming must have been practiced occasionally
as early as 1854 or 1855.

About 1863 the first dry-farm experiment of any consequence occurred in Utah. A number of emigrants
of Scandinavian descent had settled in what is now known as Bear River City, and had turned
upon their farms the alkali water of Malad Creek, and naturally the crops failed. In desperation
the starving settlers plowed up the sagebrush land, planted grain, and awaited results. To
their surprise, fair yields of grain were obtained, and since that day dry-farming has been
an established practice in that portion of the Great Salt Lake Valley. A year or two later,
Christopher Layton, a pioneer who helped to build both Utah and Arizona, plowed up land on
the famous Sand Ridge between Salt Lake City and Ogden and demonstrated that dry-farm wheat
could be grown successfully on the deep sandy soil which the pioneers had held to be worthless
for agricultural purposes. Since that day the Sand Ridge has been famous as a dry-farm district,
and Major J. W. Powell, who saw the ripened fields of grain in the hot dry sand, was moved
upon to make special mention of them in his volume on the "Arid Lands of Utah," published in
1879. After some years of experimentation, with numerous failures these and other pioneers
established the practice of dry-farming in Cache Valley, which at present is one of the most
famous dry-farm sections in the United States. In Tooele County, Just south of Salt Lake City,
dry-farming was practiced in 1877--how much earlier is not known. In the northern Utah counties
dry-farming assumed proportions of consequence only in the later '70's and early '80's. During
the '80's it became a thoroughly established and extensive business practice in the northern
part of the state.

California, which was settled soon after Utah, began dry-farm experiments a little later than
Utah. The available information indicates that the first farming without irrigation in California
began in the districts of somewhat high precipitation. As the population increased, the practice
was pushed away from the mountains towards the regions of more limited rainfall. According
to Hilgard, successful dry-farming on an extensive scale has been practiced in California since
about 1868. Olin reports that moisture-saving methods were used on the Californian farms as
early as 1861. Certainly, California was a close second in originating dry-farming.

The Columbia Basin was settled by Mareus Whitman near Walla Walla in 1836, but farming did
not gain much headway until the railroad pushed through the great Northwest about 1880. Those
familiar with the history of the state of Washington declare that dry-farming was in successful
operation in isolated districts in the late '70's. By 1890 it was a well-established practice,
but received a serious setback by the financial panic of 1892-1893. Really successful and extensive
dry-farming in the Columbia Basin began about 1897. The practice of summer fallow had begun
a year or two before. It is interesting to note that both in California and Washington there
are districts in which dry-farming has been practiced successfully under a precipitation of
about ten inches whereas in Utah the limit has been more nearly twelve inches.

In the Great Plains area the history of dry-farming Is hopelessly lost in the greater history
of the development of the eastern and more humid parts of that section of the country. The
great influx of settlers on the western slope of the Great Plains area occurred in the early
'80's and overflowed into eastern Colorado and Wyoming a few years later. The settlers of this
region brought with them the methods of humid agriculture and because of the relatively high
precipitation were not forced into the careful methods of moisture conservation that had been
forced upon Utah, California, and the Columbia Basin. Consequently, more failures in dry-farming
are reported from those early days in the Great Plains area than from the drier sections of
the far West Dry-farming was practiced very successfully in the Great Plains area during the
later '80's. According to Payne, the crops of 1889 were very good; in 1890, less so; in 1891,
better; in 1892 such immense crops were raised that the settlers spoke of the section as God's
country; in 1893, there was a partial failure, and in 1894 the famous complete failure, which
was followed in 1895 by a partial failure. Since that time fair crops have been produced annually.
The dry years of 1893-1895 drove most of the discouraged settlers back to humid sections and
delayed, by many years, the settlement and development of the western side of the Great Plains
area. That these failures and discouragements were due almost entirely to improper methods
of soil culture is very evident to the present day student of dry-farming. In fact, from the
very heart of the section which was abandoned in 1893-1895 come reliable records, dating back
to 1886, which show successful crop production every year. The famous Indian Head experimental
farm of Saskatchewan, at the north end of the Great Plains area, has an unbroken record of
good crop yields from 1888, and the early '90's were quite as dry there as farther south. However,
in spite of the vicissitudes of the section, dry-farming has taken a firm hold upon the Great
Plains area and is now a well-established practice.

The curious thing about the development of dry-farming in Utah, California, Washington, and
the Great Plains is that these four sections appear to have originated dry-farming independently
of each other. True, there was considerable communication from 1849 onward between Utah and
California, and there is a possibility that some of the many Utah settlers who located in California
brought with them accounts of the methods of dry-farming as practiced in Utah. This, however,
cannot be authenticated. It is very unlikely that the farmers of Washington learned dry-farming
from their California or Utah neighbors, for until 1880 communication between Washington and
the colonies in California and Utah was very difficult, though, of course, there was always
the possibility of accounts of agricultural methods being carried from place to place by the
moving emigrants. It is fairly certain that the Great Plains area did not draw upon the far
West for dry-farm methods. The climatic conditions are considerably different and the Great
Plains people always considered themselves as living in a very humid country as compared with
the states of the far West. It may be concluded, therefore, that there were four independent
pioneers in dry-farming in United States. Moreover, hundreds, probably thousands, of individual
farmers over the semiarid region have practiced dry-farming thirty to fifty years with methods
by themselves.

Although these different dry-farm sections were developed independently, yet the methods which
they have finally adopted are practically identical and include deep plowing, unless the subsoil
is very lifeless; fall plowing; the planting of fall grain wherever fall plowing is possible;
and clean summer fallowing. About 1895 the word began to pass from mouth to mouth that probably
nearly all the lands in the great arid and semiarid sections of the United States could be
made to produce profitable crops without irrigation. At first it was merely a whisper; then
it was talked aloud, and before long became the great topic of conversation among the thousands
who love the West and wish for its development. Soon it became a National subject of discussion.
Immediately after the close of the nineteenth century the new awakening had been accomplished
and dry-farming was moving onward to conquer the waste places of the earth.

H. W. Campbell

The history of the new awakening in dry-farming cannot well be written without a brief account
of the work of H. W. Campbell who, in the public mind, has become intimately identified with
the dry-farm movement. H. W. Campbell came from Vermont to northern South Dakota in 1879, where
in 1882 he harvested a banner crop,--twelve thousand bushels of wheat from three hundred acres.
In 1883, on the same farm he failed completely. This experience led him to a study of the conditions
under which wheat and other crops may be produced in the Great Plains area. A natural love
for investigation and a dogged persistence have led him to give his life to a study of the
agricultural problems of the Great Plains area. He admits that his direct inspiration came
from the work of Jethro Tull, who labored two hundred years ago, and his disciples. He conceived
early the idea that if the soil were packed near the bottom of the plow furrow, the moisture
would be retained better and greater crop certainty would result. For this purpose the first
subsurface packer was invented in 1885. Later, about 1895, when his ideas had crystallized
into theories, he appeared as the publisher of Campbell's "Soil Culture and Farm Journal."
One page of each issue was devoted to a succinct statement of the "Campbell Method." It was
in 1898 that the doctrine of summer tillage was begun to be investigated by him.

In view of the crop failures of the early '90's and the gradual dry-farm awakening of the later
'90's, Campbell's work was received with much interest. He soon became identified with the
efforts of the railroads to maintain demonstration farms for the benefit of intending settlers.
While Campbell has long been in the service of the railroads of the semiarid region, yet it
should be said in all fairness that the railroads and Mr. Campbell have had for their primary
object the determination of methods whereby the farmers could be made sure of successful crops.

Mr. Campbell's doctrines of soil culture, based on his accumulated experience, are presented
in Campbell's "Soil Culture Manual," the first edition of which appeared about 1904 and the
latest edition, considerably extended, was published in 1907. The 1907 manual is the latest
official word by Mr. Campbell on the principles and methods of the "Campbell system." The essential
features of the system may be summarized as follows: The storage of water in the soil is imperative
for the production of crops in dry years. This may be accomplished by proper tillage. Disk
the land immediately after harvest; follow as soon as possible with the plow; follow the plow
with the subsurface packer; and follow the packer with the smoothing harrow. Disk the land
again as early as possible in the spring and stir the soil deeply and carefully after every
rain. Sow thinly in the fall with a drill. If the grain is too thick in the spring, harrow
it out. To make sure of a crop, the land should be "summer tilled," which means that clean
summer fallow should be practiced every other year, or as often as may be necessary.

These methods, with the exception of the subsurface packing, are sound and in harmony with
the experience of the great dry-farm sections and with the principles that are being developed
by scientific investigation. The "Campbell system" as it stands to-day is not the system first
advocated by him. For instance, in the beginning of his work he advocated sowing grain in April
and in rows so far apart that spring tooth harrows could be used for cultivating between the
rows. This method, though successful in conserving moisture, is too expensive and is therefore
superseded by the present methods. Moreover, his farm paper of 1896, containing a full statement
of the "Campbell method," makes absolutely no mention of "summer tillage," which is now the
very keystone of the system. These and other facts make it evident that Mr. Campbell has very
properly modified his methods to harmonize with the best experience, but also invalidate the
claim that he is the author of the dry-farm system. A weakness of the "Campbell system" is
the continual insistence upon the use of the subsurface packer. As has already been shown,
subsurface packing is of questionable value for successful crop production, and if valuable,
the results may be much more easily and successfully obtained by the use of the disk and harrow
and other similar implements now on the market. Perhaps the one great weakness in the work
of Campbell is that he has not explained the principles underlying his practices. His publications
only hint at the reasons. H. W. Campbell, however, has done much to popularize the subject
of dry-farming and to prepare the way for others. His persistence in his work of gathering
facts, writing, and speaking has done much to awaken interest in dry-farming. He has been as
"a voice in the wilderness" who has done much to make possible the later and more systematic
study of dry-farming. High honor should be shown him for his faith in the semiarid region,
for his keen observation, and his persistence in the face of difficulties. He is justly entitled
to be ranked as one of the great workers in behalf of the reclamation, without irrigation,
of the rainless sections of the world.

The experiment stations

The brave pioneers who fought the relentless dryness of the Great American Desert from the
memorable entrance of the Mormon pioneers into the valley of the Great Salt Lake in 1847 were
not the only ones engaged in preparing the way for the present day of great agricultural endeavor.
Other, though perhaps more indirect, forces were also at work for the future development of
the semiarid section. The Morrill Bill of 1862, making it possible for agricultural colleges
to be created in the various states and territories, indicated the beginning of a public feeling
that modern methods should be applied to the work of the farm. The passage in 1887 of the Hatch
Act, creating agricultural experiment stations in all of the states and territories, finally
initiated a new agricultural era in the United States. With the passage of this bill, stations
for the application of modern science to crop production were for the first time authorized
in the regions of limited rainfall, with the exception of the station connected with the University
of California, where Hilgard from 1872 had been laboring in the face of great difficulties
upon the agricultural problems of the state of California. During the first few years of their
existence, the stations were busy finding men and problems. The problems nearest at hand were
those that had been attacked by the older stations founded under an abundant rainfall and which
could not be of vital interest to arid countries. The western stations soon began to attack
their more immediate problems, and it was not long before the question of producing crops without
irrigation on the great unirrigated stretches of the West was discussed among the station staffs
and plans were projected for a study of the methods of conquering the desert.

The Colorado Station was the first to declare its good intentions in the matter of dry-farming,
by inaugurating definite experiments. By the action of the State Legislature of 1893, during
the time of the great drouth, a substation was established at Cheyenne Wells, near the west
border of the state and within the foothills of the Great Plains area. From the summer of 1894
until 1900 experiments were conducted on this farm. The experiments were not based upon any
definite theory of reclamation, and consequently the work consisted largely of the comparison
of varieties, when soil treatment was the all-important problem to be investigated. True in
1898, a trial of the "Campbell method" was undertaken. By the time this Station had passed
its pioneer period and was ready to enter upon more systematic investigation, it was closed.
Bulletin 59 of the Colorado Station, published in 1900 by J. E. Payne, gives a summary of observations
made on the Cheyenne Wells substation during seven years. This bulletin is the first to deal
primarily with the experimental work relating to dry-farming in the Great Plains area. It does
not propose or outline any system of reclamation. Several later publications of the Colorado
Station deal with the problems peculiar to the Great Plains.

At the Utah Station the possible conquest of the sagebrush deserts of the Great Basin without
irrigation was a topic of common conversation during the years 1894 and 1895. In 1896 plans
were presented for experiments on the principles of dry-farming. Four years later these plans
were carried into effect. In the summer of 1901, the author and L. A. Merrill investigated
carefully the practices of the dry-farms of the state. On the basis of these observations and
by the use of the established principles of the relation of water to soils and plants, a theory
of dry-farming was worked out which was published in Bulletin 75 of the Utah Station in January,
1902. This is probably the first systematic presentation of the principles of dry-farming.
A year later the Legislature of the state of Utah made provision for the establishment and
maintenance of six experimental dry-farms to investigate in different parts of the state the
possibility of dry-farming and the principles underlying the art. These stations, which are
still maintained, have done much to stimulate the growth of dry-farming in Utah. The credit
of first undertaking and maintaining systematic experimental work in behalf of dry-farming
should be assigned to the state of Utah. Since dry-farm experiments began in Utah in 1901,
the subject has been a leading one in the Station and the College. A large number of men trained
at the Utah Station and College have gone out as investigators of dry-farming under state and
Federal direction.

The other experiment stations in the arid and semi-arid region were not slow to take up the
work for their respective states. Fortier and Linfield, who had spent a number of years in
Utah and had become somewhat familiar with the dry-farm practices of that state, initiated
dry-farm investigations in Montana, which have been prosecuted with great vigor since that
time. Vernon, under the direction of Foster, who had spent four years in Utah as Director of
the Utah Station, initiated the work in New Mexico. In Wyoming the experimental study of dry-farm
lands began by the private enterprise of H. B. Henderson and his associates. Later V. T. Cooke
was placed in charge of the work under state auspices, and the demonstration of the feasibility
of dry-farming in Wyoming has been going on since about 1907. Idaho has also recently undertaken
dry-farm investigations. Nevada, once looked upon as the only state in the Union incapable
of producing crops without irrigation, is demonstrating by means of state appropriations that
large areas there are suitable for dry-farming. In Arizona, small tracts in this sun-baked
state are shown to be suitable for dry-farm lands. The Washington Station is investigating
the problems of dry-farming peculiar to the Columbia Basin, and the staff of the Oregon Station
is carrying on similar work. In Nebraska, some very important experiments dry-farming are being
conducted. In North Dakota there were in 1910 twenty-one dry-farm demonstration farms. In South
Dakota, Kansas, and Texas, provisions are similarly made for dry-farm investigations. In fact,
up and down the Great Plains area there are stations maintained by the state or Federal government
for the purpose of determining the methods under which crops can be produced without irrigation.

At the head of the Great Plains area at Saskatchewan one of the oldest dry-farm stations in
America is located (since 1888). In Russia several stations are devoted very largely to the
problems of dry land agriculture. To be especially mentioned for the excellence of the work
done are the stations at Odessa, Cherson, and Poltava. This last-named Station has been established
since 1886.

In connection with the work done by the experiment stations should be mentioned the assistance
given by the railroads. Many of the railroads owning land along their respective lines are
greatly benefited in the selling of these lands by a knowledge of the methods whereby the lands
may be made productive. However, the railroads depend chiefly for their success upon the increased
prosperity of the population along their lines and for the purpose of assisting the settlers
in the arid West considerable sums have been expended by the railroads in cooperation with
the stations for the gathering of information of value in the reclamation of arid lands without
irrigation.

It is through the efforts of the experiment stations that the knowledge of the day has been
reduced to a science of dry-farming. Every student of the subject admits that much is yet to
be learned before the last word has been said concerning the methods of dry-farming in reclaiming
the waste places of the earth. The future of dry-farming rests almost wholly upon the energy
and intelligence with which the experiment stations in this and other countries of the world
shall attack the special problems connected with this branch of agriculture.

The United States Department of Agriculture

The Commissioner of Agriculture of the United States was given a secretaryship in the President's
Cabinet in 1889. With this added dignity, new life was given to the department. Under the direction
of J. Sterling Morton preliminary work of great importance was done. Upon the appointment of
James Wilson as Secretary of Agriculture, the department fairly leaped into a fullness of organization
for the investigation of the agricultural problems of the country. From the beginning of its
new growth the United States Department of Agriculture has given some thought to the special
problems of the semiarid region, especially that part within the Great Plains. Little consideration
was at first given to the far West. The first method adopted to assist the farmers of the plains
was to find plants with drouth resistant properties. For that purpose explorers were sent over
the earth, who returned with great numbers of new plants or varieties of old plants, some of
which, such as the durum wheats, have shown themselves of great value in American agriculture.
The Bureaus of Plant Industry, Soils, Weather, and Chemistry have all from the first given
considerable attention to the problems of the arid region. The Weather Bureau, long established
and with perfected methods, has been invaluable in guiding investigators into regions where
experiments could be undertaken with some hope of success. The Department of Agriculture was
somewhat slow, however, in recognizing dry-farming as a system of agriculture requiring special
investigation. The final recognition of the subject came with the appointment, in 1905, of
Chilcott as expert in charge of dry-land investigations. At the present time an office of dry-land
investigations has been established under the Bureau of Plant Industry, which cooperates with
a number of other divisions of the Bureau in the investigation of the conditions and methods
of dry-farming. A large number of stations are maintained by the Department over the arid and
semiarid area for the purpose of studying special problems, many of which are maintained in
connection with the state experiment stations. Nearly all the departmental experts engaged
in dry-farm investigation have been drawn from the service of the state stations and in these
stations had received their special training for their work. The United States Department of
Agriculture has chosen to adopt a strong conservatism in the matter of dry-farming. It may
be wise for the Department, as the official head of the agricultural interests of the country,
to use extreme care in advocating the settlement of a region in which, in the past, farmers
had failed to make a living, yet this conservatism has tended to hinder the advancement of
dry-farming and has placed the departmental investigations of dry-farming in point of time
behind the pioneer investigations of the subject.

The Dry-farming Congress

As the great dry-farm wave swept over the country, the need was felt on the part of experts
and laymen of some means whereby dry-farm ideas from all parts of the country could be exchanged.
Private individuals by the thousands and numerous state and governmental stations were working
separately and seldom had a chance of comparing notes and discussing problems. A need was felt
for some central dry-farm organization. An attempt to fill this need was made by the people
of Denver, Colorado, when Governor Jesse F. McDonald of Colorado issued a call for the first
Dry-farming Congress to be held in Denver, January 24, 25, and 26, 1907. These dates were those
of the annual stock show which had become a permanent institution of Denver and, in fact, some
of those who were instrumental in the calling of the Dry-farming Congress thought that it was
a good scheme to bring more people to the stock show. To the surprise of many the Dry-farming
Congress became the leading feature of the week. Representatives were present from practically
all the states interested in dry-farming and from some of the humid states. Utah, the pioneer
dry-farm state, was represented by a delegation second in size only to that of Colorado, where
the Congress was held. The call for this Congress was inspired, in part at least, by real estate
men, who saw in the dry-farm movement an opportunity to relieve themselves of large areas of
cheap land at fairly good prices. The Congress proved, however, to be a businesslike meeting
which took hold of the questions in earnest, and from the very first made it clear that the
real estate agent was not a welcome member unless he came with perfectly honest methods.

The second Dry-farming Congress was held January 22 to 25, 1908, in Salt Lake City, Utah, under
the presidency of Fisher Harris. It was even better attended than the first. The proceedings
show that it was a Congress at which the dry-farm experts of the country stated their findings.
A large exhibit of dry-farm products was held in connection with this Congress, where ocular
demonstrations of the possibility of dry-farming were given any doubting Thomas.

The third Dry-farming Congress was held February 23 to 25, 1909, at Cheyenne, Wyoming, under
the presidency of Governor W. W. Brooks of Wyoming. An unusually severe snowstorm preceded
the Congress, which prevented many from attending, yet the number present exceeded that at
any of the preceding Congresses. This Congress was made notable by the number of foreign delegates
who had been sent by their respective countries to investigate the methods pursued in America
for the reclamation of the arid districts. Among these delegates were representatives from
Canada, Australia, The Transvaal, Brazil, and Russia.

The fourth Congress was held October 26 to 28, 1909, in Billings, Montana, under the presidency
of Governor Edwin L. Morris of Montana. The uncertain weather of the winter months had led
the previous Congress to adopt a time in the autumn as the date of the annual meeting. This
Congress became a session at which many of the principles discussed during the three preceding
Congresses were crystallized into definite statements and agreed upon by workers from various
parts of the country. A number of foreign representatives were present again. The problems
of the Northwest and Canada were given special attention. The attendance was larger than at
any of the preceding Congresses.

The fifth Congress will be held under the presidency of Hon. F. W. Mondell of Wyoming at Spokane,
Washington, during October, 1910. It promises to exceed any preceding Congress in attendance
and interest.

The Dry-farming Congress has made itself one of the most important factors in the development
of methods for the reclamation of the desert. Its published reports are the most valuable publications
dealing with dry-land agriculture. Only simple justice is done when it is stated that the success
of the Dry-farming Congress is due in a large measure to the untiring and intelligent efforts
of John T. Burns, who is the permanent secretary of the Congress, and who was a member of the
first executive committee.

Nearly all the arid and semiarid states have organized state dry-farming congresses. The first
of these was the Utah Dry-farming Congress, organized about two months after the first Congress
held in Denver. The president is L. A. Merrill, one of the pioneer dry-farm investigators of
the Rockies.

Jethro Tull (see frontispiece)

A sketch of the history of dry-farming would be incomplete without a mention of the life and
work of Jethro Tull. The agricultural doctrines of this man, interpreted in the light of modern
science, are those which underlie modern dry-farming. Jethro Tull was born in Berkshire, England,
1674, and died in 1741. He was a lawyer by profession, but his health was so poor that he could
not practice his profession and therefore spent most of his life in the seclusion of a quiet
farm. His life work was done in the face of great physical sufferings. In spite of physical
infirmities, he produced a system of agriculture which, viewed in the light of our modern knowledge,
is little short of marvelous. The chief inspiration of his system came from a visit paid to
south of France, where he observed "near Frontignan and Setts, Languedoc" that the vineyards
were carefully plowed and tilled in order to produce the largest crops of the best grapes.
Upon the basis of this observation he instituted experiments upon his own farm and finally
developed his system, which may be summarized as follows: The amount of seed to be used should
be proportional to the condition of the land, especially to the moisture that is in it. To
make the germination certain, the seed should be sown by drill methods. Tull, as has already
been observed, was the inventor of the seed drill which is now a feature of all modern agriculture.
Plowing should be done deeply and frequently; two plowings for one crop would do no injury
and frequently would result in an increased yield. Finally, as the most important principle
of the system, the soil should be cultivated continually, the argument being that by continuous
cultivation the fertility of the soil would be increased, the water would be conserved, and
as the soil became more fertile less water would be used. To accomplish such cultivation, all
crops should be placed in rows rather far apart, so far indeed that a horse carrying a cultivator
could walk between them. The horse-hoeing idea of the system became fundamental and gave the
name to his famous book, "The Horse Hoeing Husbandry," by Jethro Tull, published in parts from
1731 to 1741. Tull held that the soil between the rows was essentially being fallowed and that
the next year the seed could be planted between the rows of the preceding year and in that
way the fertility could be maintained almost indefinitely. If this method were not followed,
half of the soil could lie fallow every other year and be subjected to continuous cultivation.
Weeds consume water and fertility and, therefore, fallowing and all the culture must be perfectly
clean. To maintain fertility a rotation of crops should be practiced. Wheat should be the main
grain crop; turnips the root crop; and alfalfa a very desirable crop.

It may be observed that these teachings are sound and in harmony with the best knowledge of
to-day and that they are the very practices which are now being advocated in all dry-farm sections.
This is doubly curious because Tull lived in a humid country. However, it may be mentioned
that his farm consisted of a very poor chalk soil, so that the conditions under which he labored
were more nearly those of an arid country than could ordinarily be found in a country of abundant
rainfall. While the practices of Jethro Tull were in themselves very good and in general can
be adopted to-day, yet his interpretation of the principles involved was wrong. In view of
the limited knowledge of his day, this was only to be expected. For instance, he believed so
thoroughly in the value of cultivation of the soil, that he thought it would take the place
of all other methods of maintaining soil-fertility. In fact, he declared distinctly that "tillage
is manure," which we are very certain at this time is fallacious. Jethro Tull is one of the
great investigators of the world. In recognition of the fact that, though living two hundred
years ago in a humid country, he was able to develop the fundamental practices of soil culture
now used in dry-farming, the honor has been done his memory of placing his portrait as the
frontispiece of this volume.

CHAPTER XX

DRY-FARMING IN A NUTSHELL

Locate the dry-farm in a section with an annual precipitation of more than ten inches and,
if possible, with small wind movement. One man with four horses and plenty of machinery cannot
handle more than from 160 to 200 acres. Farm fewer acres and farm them better.

Select a clay loam soil. Other soils may be equally productive, but are cultivated properly
with somewhat more difficulty.

Make sure, with the help of the soil auger, that the soil is of uniform structure to a depth
of at least eight feet. If streaks of loose gravel or layers of hardpan are near the surface,
water may be lost to the plant roots.

After the land has been cleared and broken let it lie fallow with clean cultivation, for one
year. The increase in the first and later crops will pay for the waiting.

Always plow the land early in the fall, unless abundant experience shows that fall plowing
is an unwise practice in the locality. Always plow deeply unless the subsoil is infertile,
in which case plow a little deeper each year until eight or ten inches are reached Plow at
least once for each crop. Spring plowing; if practiced, should be done as early as possible
in the season.

Follow the plow, whether in the fall or spring, with the disk and that with the smoothing harrow,
if crops are to be sown soon afterward. If the land plowed in the fall is to lie fallow for
the winter, leave it in the rough condition, except in localities where there is little or
no snow and the winter temperature is high.

Always disk the land in early spring, to prevent evaporation. Follow the disk with the harrow.
Harrow, or in some other way stir the surface of the soil after every rain. If crops are on
the land, harrow as long as the plants will stand it. If hoed crops, like corn or potatoes,
are grown, use the cultivator throughout the season. A deep mulch or dry soil should cover
the land as far as possible throughout the summer. Immediately after harvest disk the soil
thoroughly.

Destroy weeds as soon as they show themselves. A weedy dry-farm is doomed to failure.

Give the land an occasional rest, that is, a clean summer fallow. Under a rainfall of less
than fifteen inches, the land should be summer fallowed every other year; under an annual rainfall
of fifteen to twenty inches, the summer fallow should occur every third or fourth year. Where
the rainfall comes chiefly in the summer, the summer fallow is less important in ordinary years
than where the summers are dry and the winters wet. Only an absolutely clean fallow should
be permitted.

The fertility of dry-farm soils must be maintained. Return the manure; plow under green leguminous
crops occasionally and practice rotation. On fertile soils plants mature with the least water.

Sow only by the drill method. Wherever possible use fall varieties of crops. Plant deeply--three
or four inches for grain. Plant early in the fall, especially if the land has been summer fallowed.
Use only about one half as much seed as is recommended for humid-farming.

All the ordinary crops may be grown by dry-farming. Secure seed that has been raised on dry-farms.
Look out for new varieties, especially adapted for dry-farming, that may be brought in. Wheat
is king in dry-farming; corn a close second. Turkey wheat promises the best.

Stock the dry-farm with the best modern machinery. Dry-farming is possible only because of
the modern plow, the disk, the drill seeder, the harvester, the header, and the thresher.

Make a home on the dry-farm. Store the flood waters in a reservoir; or pump the underground
waters, for irrigating the family garden. Set out trees, plant flowers, and keep some live stock.

Learn to understand the reasons back of the principles of dry-farming, apply the knowledge
vigorously, and the crop cannot fail.

Always farm as if a year of drouth were coming.

Man, by his intelligence, compels the laws of nature to do his bidding, and thus he achieves joy.

CHAPTER XIX

THE YEAR OF DROUTH

The Shadow of the Year of Drouth still obscures the hope of many a dry-farmer. From the magazine
page and the public platform the prophet of evil, thinking himself a friend of humanity, solemnly
warns against the arid region and dry-farming, for the year of drouth, he says, is sure to
come again and then will be repeated the disasters of 1893-1895. Beware of the year of drouth.
Even successful dry-farmers who have obtained good crops every year for a generation or more
are half led to expect a dry year or one so dry that crops will fail in spite of all human
effort. The question is continually asked, "Can crop yields reasonably be expected every year,
through a succession of dry years, under semiarid conditions, if the best methods of dry-farming
be practiced?" In answering this question, it may be said at the very beginning, that when
the year of drouth is mentioned in connection with dry-farming, sad reference is always made
to the experience on the Great Plains in the early years of the '90's. Now the fact of the
matter is, that while the years of 1893,1894, and 1895 were dry years, the only complete failure
came in 1894. In spite of the improper methods practiced by the settlers, the willing soil
failed to yield a crop only one year. Moreover, it should not be forgotten that hundreds of
farmers in the driest section during this dry period, who instinctively or otherwise farmed
more nearly right, obtained good crops even in 1894. The simple practice of summer fallowing,
had it been practiced the year before, would have insured satisfactory crops in the driest
year. Further, the settlers who did not take to their heels upon the arrival of the dry year
are still living in large numbers on their homesteads and in numerous instances have accumulated
comfortable fortunes from the land which has been held up so long as a warning against settlement
beyond a humid climate. The failure of 1894 was due as much to a lack of proper agricultural
information and practice as to the occurrence of a dry year.

Next, the statement is carelessly made that the recent success in dry-farming is due to the
fact that we are now living in a cycle of wet years, but that as soon as the cycle of dry years
strikes the country dry-farming will vanish as a dismal failure. Then, again, the theory is
proposed that the climate is permanently changing toward wetness or dryness and the past has
no meaning in reading the riddle of the future. It is doubtless true that no man may safely
predict the weather for future generations; yet, so far as human knowledge goes, there is no
perceptible average change in the climate from period to period within historical time; neither
are there protracted dry periods followed by protracted wet periods. The fact is, dry and wet
years alternate. A succession of somewhat wet years may alternate with a succession of somewhat
dry years, but the average precipitation from decade to decade is very nearly the same. True,
there will always be a dry year, that is, the driest year of a series of years, and this is
the supposedly fearful and fateful year of drouth. The business of the dry-farmer is always
to farm so as to be prepared for this driest year whenever it comes. If this be done, the farmer
will always have a crop: in the wet years his crop will be large; in the driest year it will
be sufficient to sustain him.

So persistent is the half-expressed fear that this driest year makes it impossible to rely
upon dry-farming as a permanent system of agriculture that a search has been made for reliable
long records of the production of crops in arid and semiarid regions. Public statements have
been made by many perfectly reliable men to the effect that crops have been produced in diverse
sections over long periods of years, some as long as thirty-five or forty year's, without one
failure having occurred. Most of these statements, however, have been general in their nature
and not accompanied by the exact yields from year to year. Only three satisfactory records
have been found in a somewhat careful search. Others no doubt exist.

The first record was made by Senator J. G. M. Barnes of Kaysville, Utah. Kaysville is located
in the Great Salt Lake Valley, about fifteen miles north of Salt Lake City. The climate is
semiarid; the precipitation comes mainly in the winter and early spring; the summers are dry,
and the evaporation is large. Senator Barnes purchased ninety acres of land in the spring of
1887 and had it farmed under his own supervision until 1906. He is engaged in commercial enterprises
and did not, himself, do any of the work on the farm, but employed men to do the necessary
labor. However, he kept a close supervision of the farm and decided upon the practices which
should be followed. From seventy-eight to eighty-nine acres were harvested for each crop, with
the exception of 1902, when all but about twenty acres was fired by sparks from the passing
railroad train. The plowing, harrowing, and weeding were done very carefully. The complete
record of the Barnes dry-farm from 1887 to 1905 is shown in the table on the following page.

Record of the Barnes Dry-farm, Salt Lake Valley, Utah (90 acres)

Year   Annual    Yield     When    When
      Rainfall  per Acre  Plowed   Sown
      (Inches)   (Bu.)
1887   11.66      ---      May     Sept.
1888   13.62    Failure    May     Sept.
1889   18.46     22.5      ---   Volunteer+
1890   10.38     15.5      ---     ---
1891   15.92    Fallow     May     Fall
1892   14.08     19.3      ---     ---
1893   17.35    Fallow     May     Fall
1894   15.27     26.0      ---     ---
1895   11.95    Fallow     May     Aug.
1896   18.42     22.0      ---     ---
1897   16.74    Fallow    Spring   Fall
1898   16.09     26.0      ---     ---
1899   17.57    Fallow     May     Fall
1900   11.53     23.5      ---     ---
1901   16.08    Fallow    Spring   Fall
1902   11.41     28.9      Sept.   Fall
1903   14.62     12.5      ---     ---
1904   16.31    Fallow    Spring   Fall
1905   14.23     25.8      ---     ---

+About four acres were sown on stubble.

The first plowing was given the farm in May of 1887, and, with the exception of 1902, the land
was invariably plowed in the spring. With fall plowing the yields would undoubtedly have been
better. The first sowing was made in the fall of 1887, and fall grain was grown during the
whole period of observation. The seed sown in the fall of 1887 came up well, but was winter-killed.
This is ascribed by Senator Barnes to the very dry winter, though it is probable that the soil
was not sufficiently well stored with moisture to carry the crop through. The farm was plowed
again in the spring of 1888, and another crop sown in September of the same year. In the summer
of 1889, 22-1/2 bushels of wheat were harvested to the acre. Encouraged by this good crop Mr.
Barnes allowed a volunteer crop to grow that fall and the next summer harvested as a result
15-1/2 bushels of wheat to the acre. The table shows that only one crop smaller than this was
harvested during the whole period of nineteen years, namely, in 1903, when the same thing was
done, and one crop was made to follow another without an intervening fallow period. This observation
is an evidence in favor of clean summer fallowing. The largest crop obtained, 28.9 bushels
per acre in 1902, was gathered in a year when the next to the lowest rainfall of the whole
period occurred, namely, 11.41 inches.

The precipitation varied during the nineteen years from 10.33 inches to 18.46 inches. The variation
in yield per acre was considerably less than this, not counting the two crops that were grown
immediately after another crop. All in all, the unique record of the Barnes dry-farm shows
that through a period of nineteen years, including dry and comparatively wet years, there was
absolutely no sign of failure, except in the first year, when probably the soil had not been
put in proper condition to support crops. In passing it maybe mentioned that, according to
the records furnished by Senator Barnes, the total cost of operating the farm during the nineteen
years was $4887.69; the total income was $10,144.83. The difference, $5257.14, is a very fair
profit on the investment of $1800--the original cost of the farm.

The Indian Head farm

An equally instructive record is furnished by the experimental farm located at Indian Head
in Saskatchewan, Canada, in the northern part of the Great Plains area. According to Alway,
the country is in appearance very much like western Nebraska and Kansas; the climate is distinctly
arid, and the precipitation comes mainly in the spring and summer. It is the only experimental
dry-farm in the Great Plains area with records that go back before the dry years of the early
'90's. In 1882 the soil of this farm was broken, and it was farmed continuously until 1888,
when it was made an experimental farm under government supervision. The following table shows
the yields obtained from the year 1891, when the precipitation records were first kept, to 1909:--

RECORD OF INDIAN HEAD EXPERIMENTAL FARM AND MOTHERWELL'S FARM, SASKATCHEWAN, CANADA

Year   Annual    Bushels of Wheat  Bushels of Wheat  Bushels of Wheat
      Rainfall   per Acre          per Acre          per Acre
      (Inches)+  Experimental      Experimental      Motherwell's Farm
                 Farm--Fallow      Farm--Stubble
1891  14.03      35                32                30
1892   6.92      28                21                28
1893  10.11      35                22                34
1894   3.90      17                 9                24
1895  12.28      41                22                26
1896  10.59      39                29                31
1897  14.62      33                26                35
1898  18.03      32                ---               27
1899   9.44      33                ---               33
1900  11.74      17                 5                25
1901  20.22      49                38                51
1902  10.73      38                22                28
1903  15.55      35                15                31
1904  11.96      40                29                35
1905  19.17      42                18                36
1906  13.21      26                13                38
1907  15.03      18                18                15
1908  13.17      29                14                16
1909  13.96      28                15                23

+Snowfall not included. This has varied from 2.3 to 1.3 inches of water.

The annual rainfall shown in the second column does not include the water which fell in the
form of snow. According to the records at hand, the annual snow fall varied from 2.3 to 1.3
inches of water, which should be added to the rainfall given in the table. Even with this addition
the rainfall shows the district to be of a distinctly semiarid character. It will be observed
that the precipitation varied from 3.9 to 20.22 inches, and that during the early '90's several
rather dry years occurred. In spite of this large variation good crops have been obtained during
the whole period of nineteen years. Not one failure is recorded. The lowest yield of 17 bushels
per acre came during the very dry year of 1894 and during the somewhat dry year of 1900. Some
of the largest yields were obtained in seasons when the rainfall was only near the average.
As a record showing that the year of drouth need not be feared when dry-farming is done right,
this table is of very high interest. It may be noted, incidentally, that throughout the whole
period wheat following a fallow always yielded higher than wheat following the stubble. For
the nineteen years, the difference was as 32.4 bushels is to 20.5 bushels.

The Mother well farm

In the last column of the table are shown the annual yields of wheat obtained on the farm of
Commissioner Motherwell of the province of Saskatchewan. This private farm is located some
twenty-five miles away from Indian Head, and the rainfall records of the experimental farm
are, therefore, only approximately accurate for the Motherwell farm. The results on this farm
may well be compared to the Barnes results of Utah, since they were obtained on a private farm.
During the period of nineteen years good crops were invariably obtained; even during the very
dry year of 1894, a yield of twenty-four bushels of wheat to the acre was obtained. Curiously
enough, the lowest yields of fifteen and sixteen bushels to the acre were obtained in 1907
and 1908 when the precipitation was fairly good, and must be ascribed to some other factor
than that of precipitation. The record of this farm shows conclusively that with proper farming
there is no need to fear the year of drouth.

The Utah drouth of 1910

During the year of 1910 only 2.7 inches of rain fell in Salt Lake City from March 1 to the
July harvest, and all of this in March, as against 7.18 inches during the same period the preceding
year. In other parts of the state much less rain fell; in fact, in the southern part of the
state the last rain fell during the last week of December, 1909. The drouth remained unbroken
until long after the wheat harvests. Great fear was expressed that the dry-farms could not
survive so protracted a period of drouth. Agents, sent out over the various dry-farm districts,
reported late in June that wherever clean summer fallowing had been practiced the crops were
in excellent condition; but that wherever careless methods had been practiced, the crops were
poor or killed. The reports of the harvest in July of 1910 showed that fully 85 per cent of
an average crop was obtained in spite of the protracted drouth wherever the soil came into
the spring well stored with moisture, and in many instances full crops were obtained.

Over the whole of the dry-farm territory of the United States similar conditions of drouth
occurred. After the harvest, however, every state reported that the crops were well up to the
average wherever correct methods of culture had been employed.

These well-authenticated records from true semi-arid districts, covering the two chief types
of winter and summer precipitation, prove that the year of drouth, or the driest year in a
twenty-year period, does not disturb agricultural conditions seriously in localities where
the average annual precipitation is not too low, and where proper cultural methods arc followed.
That dry-farming is a system of agricultural practice which requires the application of high
skill and intelligence is admitted; that it is precarious is denied. The year of drouth is
ordinarily the year in which the man failed to do properly his share of the work.

CHAPTER XVIII

THE PRESENT STATUS OF DRY-FARMING

It is difficult to obtain a correct view of the present status of dry-farming, first, because
dry-farm surveys are only beginning to be made and, secondly, because the area under dry-farm
cultivation is increasing daily by leaps and bounds. All arid and semiarid parts of the world
are reaching out after methods of soil culture whereby profitable crops may be produced without
irrigation, and the practice of dry-farming, according to modern methods, is now followed in
many diverse countries. The United States undoubtedly leads at present in the area actually
under dry-farming, but, in view of the immense dry-farm districts in other parts of the world,
it is doubtful if the United States will always maintain its supremacy in dry-farm acreage.
The leadership in the development of a science of dry-farming will probably remain with the
United States for years, since the numerous experiment stations established for the study of
the problems of farming without irrigation have their work well under way, while, with the
exception of one or two stations in Russia and Canada, no other countries have experiment stations
for the study of dry-farming in full operation. The reports of the Dry-farming Congress furnish
practically the only general information as to the status of dry-farming in the states and
territories of the United States and in the countries of the world.

California

In the state of California dry-farming has been firmly established for more than a generation.
The chief crop of the California dry-farms is wheat, though the other grains, root crops, and
vegetables are also grown without irrigation under a comparatively small rainfall. The chief
dry-farm areas are found in the Sacramento and the San Joaquin valleys. In the Sacramento Valley
the precipitation is fairly large, but in the San Joaquin Valley it is very small. Some of
the most successful dry-farms of California have produced well for a long succession of years
under a rainfall of ten inches and less. California offers a splendid example of the great
danger that besets all dry-farm sections. For a generation wheat has been produced on the fertile
Californian soils without manuring of any kind. As a consequence, the fertility of the soils
has been so far depleted that at present it is difficult to obtain paying crops without irrigation
on soils that formerly yielded bountifully. The living problem of the dry-farms in California
is the restoration of the fertility which has been removed from the soils by unwise cropping.
All other dry-farm districts should take to heart this lesson, for, though crops may be produced
on fertile soils for one, two, or even three generations without manuring, yet the time will
come when plant-food must be added to the soil in return for that which has been removed by
the crops. Meanwhile, California offers, also, an excellent example of the possibility of successful
dry-farming through long periods and under varying climatic conditions. In the Golden State
dry-farming is a fully established practice; it has long since passed the experimental stage.

Columbia River Basin

The Columbia River Basin includes the state of Washington, most of Oregon, the northern and
central part of Idaho, western Montana, and extends into British Columbia. It includes the
section often called the Inland Empire, which alone covers some one hundred and fifty thousand
square miles. The chief dry-farm crop of this region is wheat; in fact, western Washington
or the "Palouse country" is famous for its wheat-producing powers. The other grains, potatoes,
roots, and vegetables are also grown without irrigation. In the parts of this dry-farm district
where the rainfall is the highest, fruits of many kinds and of a high quality are grown without
irrigation. It is estimated that at least two million acres are being dry-farmed in this district.
Dry-farming is fully established in the Columbia River Basin. One farmer is reported to have
raised in one year on his own farm two hundred and fifty thousand bushels of wheat. In one
section of the district where the rainfall for the last few years has been only about ten or
eleven inches, wheat has been produced successfully. This corroborates the experience of California,
that wheat may really be grown in localities where the annual rainfall is not above ten inches.
The most modern methods of dry-farming are followed by the farmers of the Columbia River Basin,
but little attention has been given to soil-fertility, since soils that have been farmed for
a generation still appear to retain their high productive powers. Undoubtedly, however, in
this district, as in California, the question of soil-fertility will be an important one in
the near future. This is one of the great dry-farm districts of the world.

The Great Basin

The Great Basin includes Nevada, the western half of Utah, a small part of southern Oregon
and Idaho, and also a part of Southern California. It is a great interior basin with all its
rivers draining into salt lakes or dry sinks. In fact, the Great Basin is made up of a series
of great valleys, with very level floors, representing the old lake bottom. On the bench lands
are seen, in many places, the effects of the wave action of the ancient lake. The chief dry-farm
crop of this district is wheat, but the other grains, including corn, are also produced successfully.
Other crops have been tried with fair success, but not on a commercial scale. Grapevines have
been made to grow quite successfully without irrigation on the bench lands. Several small orchards
bearing luscious fruit are growing on the deep soils of the Great Basin without the artificial
application of water. Though the first dry-farming by modern peoples was probably practiced
in the Great Basin, yet the area at present under cultivation is not large, possibly a little
more than four hundred thousand acres.

Dry-farming, however, is well established. There are large areas, especially in Nevada, that
receive less than ten inches of rainfall annually, and one of the leading problems before the
dry-farmers of this district is the determination of the possibility of producing crops upon
such lands without irrigation. On the older dry-farms, which have existed in some cases from
forty to fifty years, there are no signs of diminution of soil-fertility. Undoubtedly, however,
even under the conditions of extremely high fertility prevailing in the Great Basin, the time
will soon come when the dry-farmer must make provision for restoring to the soil some of the
fertility taken away by crops. There are millions of acres in the Great Basin yet to be taken
up and subjected to the will of the dry-farmer.

Colorado and Rio Grande River Basins

The Colorado and Rio Grande River Basins include Arizona and the western part of New Mexico.
The chief dry-farm crops of this dry district are wheat, corn, and beans. Other crops have
also been grown in small quantities and with some success. The area suitable for dry-farming
in this district has not yet been fully determined and, therefore, the Arizona and New Mexico
stations are undertaking dry-farm surveys of their respective states. In spite of the fact
that Arizona is generally looked upon as one of the driest states of the Union, dry-farming
is making considerable headway there. In New Mexico, five sixths of all the homestead applications
during the last year were for dry-farm lands; and, in fact, there are several prosperous communities
in New Mexico which are subsisting almost wholly on dry-farming. It is only fair to say, however,
that dry-farming is not yet well established in this district, but that the prospects are that
the application of scientific principles will soon make it possible to produce profitable crops
without irrigation in large parts of the Colorado and Rio Grande River Basins.

The mountain states

This district includes a part of Montana, nearly the whole of Wyoming and Colorado, and part
of eastern Idaho. It is located along the backbone of the Rocky Mountains. The farms are located
chiefly in valleys and on large rolling table-lands. The chief dry-farm crop is wheat, though
the other crops which are grown elsewhere on dry-farms may be grown here also. In Montana there
is a very large area of land which has been demonstrated to be well adapted for dry-farm purposes.
In Wyoming, especially on the eastern as well as on the far western side, dry-farming has been
shown to be successful, but the area covered at the present time is comparatively small. In
Idaho, dry-farming is fairly well established. In Colorado, likewise, the practice is very
well established and the area is tolerably large. All in all, throughout the mountain states
dry-farming may be said to be well established, though there is a great opportunity for the
extension of the practice. The sparse population of the western states naturally makes it impossible
for more than a small fraction of the land to be properly cultivated.

The Great Plains Area

This area includes parts of Montana, North Dakota, South Dakota, Nebraska, Kansas, Wyoming,
Colorado, New Mexico, Oklahoma, and Texas. It is the largest area of dry-farm land under approximately
uniform conditions. Its drainage is into the Mississippi, and it covers an area of not less
than four hundred thousand square miles. Dry-farm crops grow well over the whole area; in fact,
dry-farming is well established in this district. In spite of the failures so widely advertised
during the dry season of 1894, the farmers who remained on their farms and since that time
have employed modern methods have secured wealth from their labors. The important question
before the farmers of this district is that of methods for securing the best results. From
the Dakotas to Texas the farmers bear the testimony that wherever the soil has been treated
right, according to approved methods, there have been no crop failures.

Canada

Dry-farming has been pushed vigorously in the semiarid portions of Canada, and with great success.
Dry-farming is now reclaiming large areas of formerly worthless land, especially in Alberta,
Saskatchewan, and the adjoining provinces. Dry-farming is comparatively recent in Canada, yet
here and there are semiarid localities where crops have been raised without irrigation for
upwards of a quarter of a century. In Alberta and other places it has been now practiced successfully
for eight or ten years, and it may be said that dry-farming is a well-established practice
in the semiarid regions of the Dominion of Canada.

Mexico

In Mexico, likewise, dry-farming has been tried and found to be successful. The natives of
Mexico have practiced farming without irrigation for centuries--and modern methods are now
being applied in the zone midway between the extremely dry and the extremely humid portions.
The irregular distribution of the precipitation, the late spring and early fall frosts, and
the fierce winds combine to make the dry-farm problem somewhat difficult, yet the prospects
are that, with government assistance, dry-farming in the near future will become an established
practice in Mexico. In the opinion of the best students of Mexico it is the only method of
agriculture that can be made to reclaim a very large portion of the country.

Brazil

Brazil, which is greater in area than the United States, also has a large arid and semiarid
territory which can be reclaimed only by dry-farm methods. Through the activity of leading
citizens experiments in behalf of the dry-farm movement have already been ordered. The dry-farm
district of Brazil receives an annual precipitation of about twenty-five inches, but irregularly
distributed and under a tropical sun. In the opinion of those who are familiar with the conditions
the methods of dry-farming may be so adapted as to make dry-farming successful in Brazil.

Australia

Australia, larger than the continental United States, is vitally interested in dry-farming,
for one third of its vast area is under a rainfall of less than ten inches, and another third
is under a rainfall of between ten and twenty inches. Two thirds of the area of Australia,
if reclaimed at all, must be reclaimed by dry-farming. The realization of this condition has
led several Australians to visit the United States for the purpose of learning the methods
employed in dry-farming. The reports on dry-farming in America by Surveyor-General Strawbridge
and Senator J. H. McColl have done much to initiate a vigorous propaganda in behalf of dry-farming
in Australia. Investigation has shown that occasional farmers are found in Australia, as in
America, who have discovered for themselves many of the methods of dry-farming and have succeeded
in producing crops profitably. Undoubtedly, in time, Australia will be one of the great dry-farming
countries of the world.

Africa

Up to the present, South Africa only has taken an active interest in the dry-farm movement,
due to the enthusiastic labors of Dr. William Macdonald of the Transvaal. The Transvaal has
an average annual precipitation of twenty-three inches, with a large district that receives
between thirteen and twenty inches. The rain comes in the summer, making the conditions similar
to those of the Great Plains. The success of dry-farming has already been practically demonstrated.
The question before the Transvaal farmers is the determination of the best application of water
conserving methods under the prevailing conditions. Under proper leadership the Transvaal and
other portions of Africa will probably join the ranks of the larger dry-farming countries of
the world.

Russia

More than one fourth of the whole of Russia is so dry as to be reclaimable only by dry-farming.
The arid area of southern European Russia has a climate very much like that of the Great Plains.
Turkestan and middle Asiatic Russia have a climate more like that of the Great Basin. In a
great number of localities in both European and Asiatic Russia dry-farming has been practiced
for a number of years. The methods employed have not been of the most refined kind, due, possibly,
to the condition of the people constituting the farming class. The government is now becoming
interested in the matter and there is no doubt that dry-farming will also be practiced on a
very large scale in Russia.

Turkey

Turkey has also a large area of arid land and, due to American assistance, experiments in dry-farming
are being carried on in various parts of the country. It is interesting to learn that the experiments
there, up to date, have been eminently successful and that the prospects now are that modern
dry-farming will soon be conducted on a large scale in the Ottoman Empire.

Palestine

The whole of Palestine is essentially arid and semi-arid and dry-farming there has been practiced
for centuries. With the application of modern methods it should be more successful than ever
before. Dr. Aaronsohn states that the original wild wheat from which the present varieties
of wheat have descended has been discovered to be a native of Palestine.

China

China is also interested in dry-farming. The climate of the drier portions of China is much
like that of the Dakotas. Dry-farming there is of high antiquity, though, of course, the methods
are not those that have been developed in recent years. Under the influence of the more modern
methods dry-farming should spread extensively throughout China and become a great source of
profit to the empire. The results of dry-farming in China are among the best.

These countries have been mentioned simply because they have been represented at the recent
Dry-farming Congresses. Nearly all of the great countries of the world having extensive semiarid
areas are directly interested in dry-farming. The map on pages 30 and 31 shows that more than
55 per cent of the world's surface receives an annual rainfall of less than twenty inches.
Dry-farming is a world problem and as such is being received by the nations.