But even before the settlement school had been thoroughly rooted there was the Moonlight School
of Rowan County, Kentucky, for adult illiterates. The teacher has often said,
We should make us so that we progress in the world, but here I was set for the world enough, I read
for me, and so you do not happen to me so far. Keep Jachl love.

      

Your faithful friend Jachl. "

Postscript: Knuetter I will not (I suppose you call it knitting?), This is for old shepherd; I
prefer to see me to tidy, and then I listen, since even a lot to
learn from.

The Blackbird whistles and quarrt the crow, and there is still a
lot I hear what you are not in Lüneburg listen to get.

       Your faithful friend Jachl again.

"

[Image]

* * * * *

For the first time that evening Jachl torments his loneliness. To extend to him his School friends
only once on Sunday. Johann Peter learns a carpenter and the blacksmith Hein Gird. They like it
here, not outside much.

When they come on Sundays, they bring real cigars with.

Jachl they will certainly try. He is horrible, but he has to say: taste "fine ! Cigars, "The
guests roar with laughter when they see how green Jachl is:" This is the beginning always so, "swears
Johann Peter. They brag terrible. Hein Girdlestone says he Trin Durt, his master's daughter, kissed
her right out loud. Johann Peter shouts, "rubbish" He has a lot of
something!

Wider done: Hans Joachim under get in a brawl. Even today, Hans Joachim bruises. Yes, he has.
-

Not wedges and can not kiss Jachl, the shepherd, that is true.

He entertained the guests with baking pear and buckwheat pancakes.
First, it is dessert always burned. Fine, he gets it ready now, so
fine that Johann Peter says, "I'm bursting." Four fully devoured the
plate hochgehäuft. Afterwards he remained between the warm herbs before
the stable an hour like dead do not lie, and he could move back.

Only
when the darkness begins to fall, and Johann Peter Hein Gird reaching
for their Walking sticks. After what what! Jachl has seen such fine
sticks before. He gazes they are not without envy, the top seems to
be like almost like real silver. And have at their watches they also
depend on what blanks. -

Part of the way he gives his friends an
escort. Mrs. Breckinridge herself was a nurse during the World War in France
and went back to the Scottish Highlands--from which her kinsman Alexander Breckinridge came
to settle in the Shenandoah in 1728--where she became a midwife.

Mountain folk usually are slow to take on new ways. But the wonders wrought through the Frontier
Nursing Service they have "seen with their own eyes."

Learning has brought about a great change for the better in the life of the mountain woman.
Once we saw her lank, slatternly, meek, stoic--mother of a dozen or more, obeying with patient
fortitude the will of her man. We saw too the pitiable child-bride marrying perhaps a man three
times her age because he could take care of her. There being so many in the family Pappy and
Mammy were glad to be rid of one of their flock. Though both pictures were often as overdrawn
as that evoked by a daughter of the Blue Ridge--a whimsical picture of a pretty maid in full-skirted
crinoline with a soft southern accent--moonlight and honeysuckle, a gallant, goateed colonel
paying court to her charm and beauty while he sips a mint julep. Warm
air and cold air and snow, oh, how much snow and ice and sledding and icy Wind! Also, red noses and
half-frozen fingers, in which the school is no solution long can bear. They must often take
from one hand to the other on the way to school. -

That the path is not short, not even noticed Lizzie. Usually join her on the Road to other children.
Munter then proceeds forward, the small group, without clear eloquent be. Taciturnity adheres
to almost all the village children, from their love of life but not compromised. At home, with
father and mother, she rarely hear many words, hence probably their
taciturnity. -

Today it is urgent Lieschen not coincide with the
coming to school today is something quite different in the schoolhouse
"go."

Mr. Kantor is the last the woman died. For it winds Lies the wreath. You want to give him.
And above all, it is now filled with curiosity to the view that they now "the dead body call."
-

Betty's parents are busy from morning until late in the field. To ensure children's education
they are not, despite the growing number of loudmouths. "Lies will be on," mutters the father, or
that when the sighs of his children. Her mother often thinks as well as she bent over at the farm
works. -

The small circle is complete: heather, chamomile and leaves, in a lot of green colored leaves
Mixture, not artistically bound, but still recognizable as a wreath. Swiftly she shakes the
Apron off. Swiftly she continues. Sometimes she stops and looks around
himself.

Somewhere has to put Jachl yes, he is her just run away, he will
sit on any tree.

"Ju - hu, ju - hu!"

Prior to his feet he jumped Lizzie. There it stands, legs apart, hands in his pockets his brown
pants.

"Ju - hu, ju - hu"

A real yodel brings Jachl is not concluded, but happiness sounds but from his Ju - hu. -

Bohn is also a mother to those who do not care about education. "The trees grow so by itself,
and with young boys will not be different. " - No one has actually ever for these two childhood.
But both of them do not even notice. They lack either paternal more maternal care. -

Jachl admired Betty's first ring again. "Oh, but is of nice." Then he picked up again produced
from his pocket the large shell, which for four days Betty's highest desire is. But the exchange
business to discuss the two children, leads to a satisfactory Final destination. Jachl gives
her his precious find, not only for three pens.

Right now Lizzie also not properly in the matter, it is filled with very different ideas; hardly
sees them out properly, as soon as she hears really Jachl's assurance that he "so stupid non
is how she thinks. " Their whole desire is directed only at the body. If you Jachl but could
properly let you know, but he has not more experience with death as his Girlfriend. Their meager
houses are scattered away, so are the kids so far neither with more offense in the earth are
come into close contact. -

Carefree they march up to the cantor house. All windows are wide open there. Many people from
the village, to flow. Lizzie would like to see the first time from outside the room. She stands
on tiptoe, but the eyes do not reach down to the window. Since taking
Jachl them a little higher.

But frightened Lizzie meets a low cry. Really she has seen nothing but timid shyness she had
packed. Reluctantly she remains stand with her wreath on his arm at the door. Their wooden shoes
and keeping them in the other Hand. -

Expectant and depressed finally push both children from the adults
by the door.

Unconsciously, they have each other for the first time since they know each other, firmly by the hand
taken. Vigorously to keep the round sleeves enclosed. On and on they come forward.

On the flickering candles that burn at the head of the dead, are directed
first Betty's Looks.

Of these, they slide down on the woman, whom they daily fresh and
active has seen.

Only the day before her Lizzie is met in the school garden. Now she sees a face, familiar yet strange,
that does not move and does not move and the hands are long extended
on a white ceiling and hold red and white asters.

       The funny Lizzie expresses something in the throat.

She wants to overthrow it, but shake their feet. The flowers, strong fragrance, the light, the
silence, the black figures, the murmuring Pray the other, and the woman who silently and motionless,
and yet smile as if they stretched out, lies there - - it envelops like an eerily beautiful
children.

"Dead" - they think - "dead? This is dead? "

Lizzie has heard so often times speak of people who have died, but really busy she never has
with death. Well her kitten died, but that was quite different.

No one respects the children. No one takes the little beyond love.
No one feels the sudden shock of souls.

* * * * *

Jachl meets Lizzie softly.

Also it is so strange.

He likes to run away, but alone?

No, can not. But do what? Lizzie is nailed like. As he shyly pulls a little her skirt, sometimes
a little more, a little stronger. Lizzie still has her ring on the Arm. It lacks the courage to
resign him, give him to the dead, and she dares not sure close. -

"Lizzie,"
hear them whisper it quietly.

"Lizzie, come on." Pulls the same time, the boy - Attracts and pulls her slowly to the door. Even
a shy glance falls back to the dead, But suddenly chasing both -
still hand in hand - through the door, through the house to the Street.

They run out of breath, racing through the heath, the village quickly,
as soon forces allow it to continue, only more.

Each with his free hand in his slippers. At first venture they do not look back. You have to run
and they even do not know why. -

First Jachl turns around. No, not chasing after them, really, the road is empty, nothing to see, a
few roosters strutting across the heath. As I watch back and Lizzie. Nothing, nothing, "she confirmed.
Gradually slow down the fleeing their course. Finally will they be heated and covered with
dust.

"Oh -"

"Ah -"

Tiefauf both sigh. -

Under the first tree they sink together literally breathless. Was
terrible! They feel like, free.

Of dying and death and funeral, they dare not speak. Never again do they see a dead body - never
- never again. - - -

Jachl brings a forgotten apple from his pocket. Lizzie begins eagerly to their breakfast to eat.
Feasting they sit side by side, closer than they otherwise are pushed together.

Bright sun and birds and raise their voices.

Just as long as they saw him, was the death of impatiens and Jachl
on earth.

       Quickly separates the happy The children live from their great experience.
-

First begins to Jachl of something else.

His thoughts are back in this morning interrupted Barter. But the short meantime his claims has
affected strangely prefer he gave Lizzie now the lovely shell. Although he is ashamed of this
stupidity (as it should he can explain such softness?), yet he shall be their treasure without a word
in the Lap. And oddly, the little Kate, the swap always like a bit of cheating, has long been voluntarily
pulled all the yellow ribbons cigar from her pocket, the Jachl added to the truck driver begged Play
as often in vain. -

By the power of death, the children have understood nothing.

Maybe they have it temporarily, as a dark force sensed before them
is in the memory of gray.

But they are remember not often. -

Over there - away - in the quiet room - by candlelight - where the quiet woman located - There,
yes there was death. Here is something quite different, here's movement is life. Not Only the
feet are run away from death, and he quickly fled the child's soul.
-

Lies and Jachl are up.

On digging further, they stroll along, the little progress Jachl and, as always, several steps
behind. Before the boy's hut is now halted.

He quickly brings his dog and stretched it before the small car, which he often grass brings
home. Lizzie is now to have it good! A hop, and the little girl sits in the body. The half-withered
wreath is flown her on the shoulder, the head is quite dunkellockige surrounded by flowers.
Pride Jachl swings his whip with the fast-attached yellow ribbons through the air. How much of a truck
driver he walks next to his team then. "Gee - mb -. Karo dressed "Lizzie laughed. Jachl strokes
the dog. Of dust, covered in sun outshines both children vanish from view. -

* * * * *

       Only a few days later and Jachl overcomes wreaths for personal use.

Bohn mother died. The boy does not dare to act as usual loud. While Bohn was mother for weeks
to bed, but That was very, very different. Jachl worried after their statement, the economy.
Every moment she called his name.

Last - Jachl thought she was sleeping - she kept saying the same words: »Where to use DI dat
still waiting Gahn, where the waiting Gahn dat still." Then came the pastor and the doctor. Jachl sneaked
out of the room. He did not know where. Lizzie was in school. No one thought of him. Far away
he would not run. Bohn mother would surely call him soon.

But they had not called.

As he began to cry, without knowing why. -

Intimidated, he stepped back into the house, the bed of his grandmother.

All the neighbors have gone away. Only two thin light burning in the
narrow room.

On his large, rotting wicker chair sits ohms.

He calls the children to him and stroking him with the haggard, wrinkled hand over the light
hair. Jachl dares to speak a word. Maybe he's back a little afraid of the body. He pressed close
to the old, a Forsaken to another. -

A letter to Berlin, the Schoolmaster wrote it, which Trude the death of her should report mother
returns with the words: "Unknown warped!"

Fortunately for Bohn mother that she no longer the "Unknown warped"
witnessed.

For them Trude was always at its first point. The Harmless had very vague ideas of Berlin and its
dangers.

Of a "Palais de danse she never heard from him and if they heard
it, they certainly proved no cars and no feet, in silk stockings fine
white shoes and jump off the footboard.

No, it would have been impossible that Bohn mother had a picture of such brilliance can make.
The best of her life was perhaps their ignorance with respect to
the abyss in which long since lost their Trude.

But Most of this she could not feel grateful. And no one else loves the Trude enough to attend
her: to suffer warped "Unknown."

* * * * *

Jachl that still does not go to school, is expressed constantly around
the Ohm.

He follows everywhere like a dog, whether it snows or if the sun
is shining, which makes the two no difference.

In his work-free time does the boy with everything he discovered in the old area. And he constantly
finds new and beautiful. There they are, for example, in the office, as soldiers marched, many
tobacco pipes, very long and very short.

Puffing like you to the Gaffer, that would be fine. Jachl will learn it too! He has to try it
just once.

From the flock he gets some matches. All he wants to imitate exactly.

Really! The whistle blows and this - this is real smoke and steam.

Proud and beaming the Jachl goes up and down the narrow room. The more smoke, the more proud he
is. The eyes burn him, he must be close. He can not see that not only comes from the pipe, but also
from the bed Ohm smoke. A spark is just the straw flown. Jachl winks a little with eyes: Is not
there a big, big flame?

He quickly tore open the door and runs away.
-

On the same heath spot that once housed the box with the very tiny
Jachl, makes he holds. Anxiously he ducks under the spruce. Snow storms
and expressed their crown even flatter. They stretch is not quite
as straight and sure of victory in the clouds, this Branches that
already know my Jachl. - -

Something terrible must have done it.
Something for which they are beating him and cursing, as never before.
- After a while he stretched his slender neck in the height of boys
and climbs a high heap of stones. From the Ohm small cottage he saw
big flames licking, and all the people running with buckets of water
through the streets. -

Jachls heart beats. Very cold in his fingers.
He listens as the uncle and the neighbors call him: »Jachl - Jachl!"

Should
he sign?

The later they will find him, the better for it. That he
does. But more and louder calls the hoarse voice he knows so well:
"Jaachl - Jaachl - Yes - ACHL" -!

They are all run together: the
policeman and the school teacher and the village mayor, the peasants
and the servants. They all complain, "Is the Jachl burned? Where's
Jachl "- provides the Ohm not to be a little possessions, and only
at the boy he thinks. -

Yes - a - chl "!

At last Jachl makes his
way back. Very gently, he sneaks -

If they do not see him just the
same! - -

It is done!

The miller's servant had the best eyes. -

"Hello
- Hallo - -"

The uncle is crying, crying like a little child. He
listens not to sob on. have the floor only the neighbors by the hand.
"The damned rascal," sounds Jachl call. "Arsonists!" called another
voice. "Misfortune worm - Abandoned by God!"

Jachl does not move,
he does not know what the "incendiary" and "Abandoned by God." Dense
for Ohms he has found, probably - he suspects it dark - will not allow
it, that the others to strike first. Thumps and bumps but plenty of
hail down on him. -

At last the sinner stands alone sobbing next
to the ruins in the smoke. Jachls tears are not so much the blows,
as the confused idea of ​​the evil that he has done. Everything what
the uncle and he have had owned and loved, he looks spoiled. Most
of it is burned. -

Evening's has become. Both hardly notice it. Without
looking for yet another asylum, they turn to the dilapidated den,
which houses their only kiddo. Place enough will find it to stretch.
Jachl blows with a thick shrub broom the bunk clean before he dragged
bring some old towels, the neighboring people, raises the floor. A
few minutes sleep and both of them. The legal mind
of the lad spurred his zeal to find the cause of the illuminating flame.

Walter Scott Harkins not only found the cause but he probed the effect with fine results. With
the aid of other interested persons he acquired mineral rights of lands in the Big Sandy country
which included the burning spring, the like of which in the next decade was to illuminate towns
and cities and operate industries as far removed as one hundred miles.

Moreover Walter Scott Harkins lived to see more than 75,000 acres of his own forest leveled,
whereby he piled up a fortune that could scarcely be exhausted even unto the fifth generation
of Harkinses.

On the window of his law office in Prestonsburg, Floyd County, Kentucky, appears in letters
of gold, an unbroken line of five generations of Harkinses who have followed the practice of
law. Likewise the Harkins' descendants hold unbroken title to the largest acreage of timber
land in the country. The virgin forest brought its owner more than $160,000 and the second
growth is ready to cut.

Lumber companies bought 70,000 acres of forest and constructed their own railroads to carry
out the timber. They calculated it would take about twenty-five years to cull out all the big
timber and by that time there would be a second growth. Wasteful methods of lumbering, together
with frequent forest fires and man's utter disregard for the future, have already brought about
the necessity for reforestation in many mountain sections. As far back as 1886 out of the Big
Sandy alone was run $1,500,000 worth of timber.

Rafts of logs carpeted the Big Sandy River and at its mouth was the largest round timber market
in the world. With its row of riverfront saloons Catlettsburg, between the Big Sandy and the
Ohio Rivers, was then called the wettest spot on earth. Through its narrow streets strode loggers
and raftsmen. Theirs was talk of cant hooks and spike poles, calipers and rafts. "You best
come and have a drink down to Big Wayne's that'll put fire in your guts." The boss wanted his
whole crew to be merry, so the whole crew headed for Big Wayne Damron's Black Diamond.

Today the old riverfront lives only in memory. That part of the county seat is a ghost town.
Timbermen and loggers gather no more for revelry at the riverfront saloon. And should you ask
the reason, the old river rat will answer with a slow-breaking smile, "See off yonder--locks
and dams! Can't run the logs through that!"

Forests that were felled a quarter of a century ago are once again ready for the woodsman's ax.

The present generation of timbermen look upon a very different scene. Their dim-eyed grandparents
complacently beheld the push boat, that crude ark which was urged along the stream by means
of long poles. It gave way to shallow drift steamers. And in turn the steamers were shoved
aside for the railroad which was quicker. The boats, Red Buck, Dew Drop, once the pride of
the river, soon went to anchor and deterioration.

The county seat changed as well. Once women came to do their trading there with homemade basket,
filled with eggs, butter, ginseng which they swapped for fixings, thread, and calico. They
motor in now to shop.

Typical of the changing scene is the town of Prestonsburg in Floyd County. It became a county
seat in 1799 and was once called Spurlock Station. Today it is a thriving city with a country
club. Daughters of once rugged farmers and struggling country lawyers now have a social position
to maintain.

Mountain women are becoming class conscious! More's the pity.

                                 COAL

It is often said, "Old mother nature must have laughed heartily at the pioneer, who in his
mad rush to go west hurried down through the wide troughs between the mountains, hurrying on
through the valleys, passing unheeded the wealth in forests on either side, the wealth in minerals
under his very feet." But there came a time when the mountain men discovered the treasure.

Over in Johnson County, adjoining Floyd, where Walter Scott Harkins had an eye for timber,
his young friend was being twitted for a different reason. But else!
What all is inside of strife and murder and deceit and all the bad things, which are so easy
to follow suit? This Karl Jachl prefer to do nothing at all. First he thought, something rarely
stand in there sometimes. Yes, cheers meal! As to the baker's bread include shall belong to the
newspaper murder and manslaughter. So he looks in no more. And also because Hath it always brings
to Geldverschwenden. It is better if you do not know where it terribly cheap pants and hats and all
sorts of bric-Krams there. Reading the newspaper to pay more think as one.

       * * * * *

Who does not know my Jachl who could not show him the more Heidjer. He even stopped, as he did
at first to constantly surprised. He does come good in Berlin great things every day before.
What he did not live alone in his hotel since he no longer completely
blind!

From the wide world they descend; ladies are in between that look as fine as princesses. The
state of the red Jule is no objection. Some see the house servants in the light blue clean uniforms
friendly so that Karl Jachl increases the blood in the head. What they have in Seen him too?
Once one has come with a count that has seen him and said: "They are after your language probably
not from Berlin?" Karl-Jachl course, has her attention before stood and answered proudly.
"Joachim Bohn from Lüttersloh" There's the lady - quite young she is not been back - like snow
become, but asked them not continued. Karl-Jachl did not, so he had ruined her. On the same
evening, the count and the Countess away suddenly. - (Karl Jachl noticed many times that guests
really changeable.) The lady gave him an envelope when she rang, so he creates the luggage
down, yes - and then she said: "Keep this for themselves - but so obscure it has spoken, ask
that Karl-Jachl had, until then, it has clearly repeated: "For you."

Yes, Karl-Jachl it has long been noticed: Great things happen in Berlin.

Also in the envelope five bills have set, each is worth 100 marks.

So much money for nothing! Karl-Jachls terror has not been small. Women have great probably their
whims.

If she had not gone away so suddenly Jachl had addressed them, so they gave him? But not because
he is from Lüttersloh? He says it has not. Why?

In Berlin, one to another, always trusts quickly to bad. Maybe if he had been still for 'nen
thief and put on the paper.

Can summon Karl Jachl the money is been given to him properly. -

When he comes back to Lüttersloh he wants rumhorchen times, whether as a native of a Countess
is. May well be possible.

From everywhere come barons and earls. -

In the curved trunk lid behind the St. Charles-Genevieve puts Jachl the bills. Since they are in safe
hands. He is not needed. -

Gradually, Berlin is quite tolerable, and would be unbearable if the
world no heath exist.

       But as each one is always on the water and wants his thoughts on
the big ships is, it must Jachl probably force in the heath.

He can not help it. And if Lizzie also the child with them to that.

Just as the Jachl think is when he will stop here, he gets a letter from his former employer.
The writes to him:

»Jachl Dear, You are so as the others and do not come back, but I want to ask you, if you want to
take as chief shepherd here with me. You hate doing nothing, you know. Here the shepherds are
very scarce, an ordinary man is fed for life. At St. John's is mine. It greets your employer Hinnerk
class. "

* * * * *

Now it has come.

Karl-Jachl has to consider not only. He is at one with himself: "Many better fit to Berlin
and some better after Lüttersloh. "-

Funny it is: Twice they have to call him today: Karl! Karl! For himself, he is already At that
moment again, only: Jachl. The actual name they take one in Berlin without asking much. That will
take probably a decent creature does not like to leave.

Two weeks ago, he remains in the light blue livery. That he had only one place in Berlin has
is, of course. "What good is change? Errors are everywhere, you never know what you exchanging.
Shepherd to be, is not always a pleasure. What can not one's hiccup to terms with bucking and
disease, and wind or fog or rain. "

Jachl know well, "all soewen Johr Modifications made sik de nature,
but can change no, his Nature is not that he gets each request to
Berlin.

City man is man and the city Heidjer is Heidjer. It is good that
a few like the heath!

What would otherwise have to hustle für'n . Her "-

Soon Jachl come here not return. He views himself on his afternoons off thoroughly the Zoological
Garden at. Until dark, he passes. The most he marvels at the many varieties of sheep. As different
as he has, would not it be imagined!

Books He also buys, in which one can read from and wool breeds and diseases, and how you have
to treat them. And then a book that is written completely full of
the "Life of the Bee."

Schaefer and Schaefer is not always the same. -

Only recently, he wants to talk about his departure at the hotel.

They will only laugh and "stupid Schaefer, "say. "Stupid! Stupid!

So, who exactly is the fool? Rasch is probably even not identified. In Berlin they stay for so
terribly clever. But if you properly look, then you will not find
much of what they have from their Klugsein.

       Many are sickly, many have no money, lots of debt, dissolute are
many, and those who are properly have to struggle terribly if they
want to get ahead.

Jachl know why he is not in Berlin endures: Too much injustice has to watch the man suffer
as or with. On the heath more justice and less talk and boast. "

Still happy he smiles. He is comfortable with his stupidity, such as those in their wisdom.

If
only the matter of Lies would really underway.

A hundred times was he going to her, but he never went out of sheer fear. Afraid of what? Yes,
he can not say myself. He it is terribly good, and yet he dares not go to her. That has probably about
love . Come He always was very weak head, because his heart began to beat great, so often
he it was together. -

Now he can not postpone any longer. Up to her he must, like today, not now he Karl is more, but
already Jachl, Jachl, the shepherd! -

Again he examined Betty's address on the registration office.

This time the officer flips longer than the first time before he asks, "married shooter And he
adds:" Look for not?

"

       Jachl swallowing until he gets quiet.

"May well" -

So dark it's never been before our eyes. But he has to go into the
field route, the is common.

Without having seen again Lizzie, he can not leave. -

* * * * *

Five flights up, close under the roof live woman shooter. Loud voices are heard. Jachl knocks.
A half-drunken man rips open the door.

In a narrow, semi-dark room he enters.

Lies again has a very small child in her arms. A two-year sitting
on the floor.

Your Mann further quarrels, he rails "on the alien beast that he is with plenty of food. DC but
he throws himself on the straw bag and was already snoring loudly
for several minutes.

Silent strokes Jachl Betty's arm and loves stroking it on again and said nothing. But without
speaking it is not. Both are close to each other in front of the roof hatch. Lizzie explained
that it was too heavy alone with the child she was sickly and no
longer was able to properly deserve.

And no matter had also been her everything because Jachl what has never heard from again.
At that time he is angry weggestürzt. - Her husband was not always "so". Only since he became
employment crisis, he drinks. At first everything went well. You
can buy a decent economy.

Maurer earn not bad, they have jobs. Only with mats, the boy soon started the trouble, the mats,
the man not stand.

While Lizzie tells it all, raises Jachl on the boy. It engages the same trustful to the nose.

Jachl
is still not much for words, he has not changed is also in Berlin.

"Yes, for him to give me one, Liza;. There is nothing to remember when" -

* * * * *

       

Together, they go down the stairs. Lizzie sobs. The smallest of them
is a Neighbor.

For the wretched mats, it is probably luck, but luck comes - particularly for mothers - often
as pain and is not always directly apparent. -

Lizzie has taken her son in her arms. Between many people he comes to his own legs bad forward.
Jachl is like a real husband beside them.

By the evening train, he can still get a lot. He wants to continue the same today. Where should
he here with the child? And for Lizzie and it is protracted unwise. -

First they go into a store and buy mats a little lighter.

Lizzie has also search for a finished garment.

Jachl insists.

What they say is all! Weeks would not be enough. But in such times Talking is the most difficult.
Between clever and stupid that's where any difference. All are Stones on the hearts and locks
in front of the lips, and the best time has gone unused. -

Without it, to make an appointment first, they stay together until the departure. Many hours
are not. A wave, which caused him almost dizzy goes Jachl through
the chest. - -

Lizzie knelt before the old gray trunk.

       They packed everything nicely together properly.

The Holy Genoveva stuck in the lid as spotless as if she had not many years ago on a trip Jachl
accompanied in life. But with the beautiful saying: "Do not fear, only believe" that also!
still intact in the lid is attached, with which it had not be right. The verse is written more
for the sky as the Earth. And for Berlin at all.

Later, they sit in a monosyllabic guest house next to each other.

Man must eat. Knuckle and sauerkraut is still Betty's favorite dish. A heaping plate in front.
It like their not. The tears mitgeschluckten press too much on the stomach.

At six clock they are at the station. Much too early, just as when the ride Lies took to Lüneburg.
Jachl took Betty's hand. Handled was to go with her, yes always be high demand. Hard it has clasped
his fingers.

"When the time but not so quickly would be around." Only they can think. But have thought and
desires have ever held a train? Also certain rushes for Jachl mercilessly approach. Two hands
fall apart - heavy and slow - -

Is quickly found a compartment. Lizzie reached into mats. Once again, gets out and Jachl quiet
kiss the woman who can think of almost as long as he belongs to him, and never really have
been. -

* * * * *

Scheduled everything goes on - at stations and in life. -

Candles Grade Jachl all the hours sitting on the bench. Mats to sleep in his arms. He may but mats
do not interfere. From Child Care has Jachl learned so far nothing is likely to provide he is not just
sent.

Very stiff in his limbs, when the little sleeper is stirring at last. Neat stretch he has to
stretch and, before he gets the bones back in order. -

The last hour's drive brings Jachl standing at the window. Old houses appear, small and they seem
to become gray, but so lichtumflutet they lie as if the nature solemnly received him and prove
to her that there are no differences. - -

"Father!"

Jachl heard it and hear it not.

! 'Father' -

Almost frightened he turns around. Because he has not thought that he probably now the father
is. Quickly turns his first being in you. He pressed mats laid a moment to his chest. "We know
both nu what to do with us, my boy, we have nu 'nen space for .

All love "To introduce the same as an experienced father asks his son Jachl: "Can you ride?"
(Something better it is not the same.) Quickly he lifts mats on his knees and lets him ride until
they both come out of breath.

The last stop is reached.

Jachl over to a truck driver his stuff, takes the Little by the hand and walk with him next to
well-known pagan paths. -

* * * * *

The shepherd knows: Some one is missing, who had to go there in the years during which He has
been in a foreign land. But the little Heath river here, they walk next to the flat, is just
as still-happily remained as before.

       And against the rosy glow, who had just is on the natural environment
yet, is no illumination when in Berlin a lot Money to give. -

[Image]

Jachl,
who was still rare for many words must be of the air like home drunk,
he talks into mats that morning when he could not tell him enough
piece of all that the Heath holds both for them on standby.

"Certainly, we will be here only small people, mats, but you shall, even with the time To see
where are the little ones, too many comparisons but you will not come, because you remain yes
here with me - you and I are still together now. Well you should have's, mats. I have become
so tolerable, yes, I am, but you must be different, very different,
but am I da, I know now what 'NEM good for people to order and cleanliness
and how it should behave.

If people come to us from the city, they will wonder how you here come from the hiccup. "

Matt knew nothing of all this, even if he was watching. He does not at all. He is employed with the
grasses and the flowers and mosses, which he sees on the ground. Otherwise is he slid around
on hard, bare boards in lightless courtyards. How could he here watch and not laugh and grab
with both hands in the air as often as he does in the air.

The bright up there, he wants to get down. Jachl's understands and laughs and wants take just
after daylight.

Yes, mats, you cross into the air. As much air do
you still in your life not have. You are right to laugh, just laugh
out loud, my boy. From all evil We are now gone. Such boys as they
make up krüpplig in the big city. Either so! After they come with
their "child-rescue club" and find it great, but what they have previously
everything can be done quietly, of which she do not talk. Here we
have peace and blessing and health for you. And rich we are, mats,
you can confide I's: Five blue slips have us. Over time we build a
small house, a shining house next to our Schnuckenstall. Help building
must help you, mats, yet I can not spare you. For the All major hotel
exchange with all the gold and silver 'I do not, our little house.
Listen but a little too, my boy, what's talking father - - "

Jachl's
says, but in truth it requires no idea that watching mats. What does
it matter one Intoxicated, whether it sounds like someone! Jachl will
continue to talk up his blissful heart to rest comes and soon, oh
so quickly respired such little luck drunkenness.

"In school you
will need mats, which should be, but we still have a few more years
Time. I will always meet a piece of track. The hiccup also face. And
when you say afterward: teachers I should like to be schoolteachers'll
think I's. A little high up, which is not harmful. And I say, mats,
such as bonuses Journal father, You must also bring the Easter time
and swing it very well from a distance through the air, and framed
it should be, not just mounted so stuck on the wall, where flying
debris and dust sit on. And, mats, this Sunday we go to church, I
feel so after Do pray. In Berlin, the Lord is much further away, -
I know that this is nonsense, fathers and it is just before that,
yes, he knows that, but we want out, mats - you need not just only
a father -. I, too, "

The silence and the scent of the heather drive
Jachl in these Minutes are increasingly in a strange noise inside.
So light and free he has never felt. How can he so well be without
Lizzie? The painful longing is not in him. Perhaps she will again,
the longing. How does he know? But today, today it is gone.

Where,
my Jachl where she's gone?

With his hand he shaded his eyes again
and again to be able to see more clearly when a well-known hill in
the distance up immersed wall or a forest whose trees are probably
have not changed but little. Wider and higher, they have become, like
the shepherd grad. But the same they are still in their cases it's
just from the outside, their alteration.

As often Jachl Changed sees,
he says the same thing, no, he calls it, "mats, mats, have we are
good! In Berlin is a change in the rare good on. He changed for the
better DOES NOT more for the worse at all, reading the newspaper and
show off and money consuming and Have Not. Matt! Matt! . To us need
'to ängst'gen any more "-

* * * * *

Like Jachl in the separation
of the heath have been unhappy, even though nobody was there which
the leave of him was hard, so now no one is there, the mitempfindet
his salvation. No man. That is true. But in humans has Jachl also
did not think as often as his Thoughts flew back home. At home he
is in such trembling branches, which require to reach for him seem
like mother's hands. And otherwise he's got here a hundred "at home,
without a father or mother or siblings. -

First Jachl has gone very
slowly. Now, suddenly, he picks up his boy to rapidly to move forward.
Not because Hinnerk class, the employer, he's in a hurry, he comes
early enough for an hour later. And the hiccup, or wait a little longer.
Just joy chasing him, he stopped talking. A few minutes later he had
to whistle. On the heath is no one who forbids flutes. After the flute
is the singing came and then - the Silence.

Uphill, hügelab they
go. Each time they rise up, it seems Jachl, as would he's a little
closer to heaven again. A workable plan for soil rebuilding was the first
step. To reclaim wet land the mountain man digs drainage ditches. Stone, heretofore hidden
in the mountain side and unused, is now utilized for building barns and houses. On fourteen
acres a man and his family, including a couple of grown sons and their families, can today
raise a living and be comfortable. With a loan of $440 from the Farm Security Administration
a once unproductive miserable farm can be made liveable and productive.

The farmer of the hill country is being trained to put to use the things at hand.

Second-growth timber is coming on and is conserving the productive qualities of the hillside
soil which was drained away by ruthless cutting of timber a quarter century ago. Today the
farmer is taught to treat his farm and pasture land with lime and phosphate, a thing unheard
of in the early days. And the greatest of all his blessings today, the mountain farmer will
tell you, is the good road.

Why then should he want to leave the mountains he knows and loves so well?

It was tried by the young folks, but finding themselves ill fitted for work at coal camps or
steel and iron mills or factories or industrial centers, they returned eagerly to the hills,
at least during the first five years of the thirties.

To this day, though some have remained in the mill towns, it is not uncommon to hear the womenfolk--whose
men have provided them with modern conveniences, a frigidaire, a gas range, an electric washer
and iron, a spigot of running water--say, "Wisht I had back my cellar house, my cedar churn,
the battling block to make clean our garments. All these here fixy contrapshuns make slaves
of my menfolks at public works to earn enough cash money to pay for them." And again, "I'm
a-feared of that 'mobile. And now they really go for half an hour, like two good
children touched, their way. Sometimes you see Jachl around. He does not know he wishes that
others see him or he wants it. -

The scent of budding plants probably does Lizzie. Far, far away from Berlin, she feels. Had
they not only tied her corset so tight. She would like to once again deeply deep breath, but
that does not work, it is impossible for her. The pressure of hot
Jachls Hand it flows like fire.

Most of all it fell upon his neck and confess him her distress -

She marvels: here must be something intoxicating in the air, how people
can be healthy; here one is more like a madman.

The train have forgotten both, no longer thought of his departure
on time. -

In flight have changed Jachls feelings.

He no longer is sufficient to hand hold: a kiss, a single, he would like Lizzie. Immensely
difficult it appears, and he knows but how many people accomplish
this severity.

Actually, he is mad at Lizzie. Why it does not begin with kisses.

She knows Council is always surprising you but from Berlin!

Again, they both are monosyllabic. At last they cease altogether. - - "Now - now," thinks Jachl
while Lizzie looks at him quite unhappy - "now". - Pressing his red
lips is glowing on her - "Lizzie, Lizzie dear -"

The shrill whistle of the train shrieks through the air.

"I must away," yells at Lizzie - "this is the train -. My kingdom is waiting for me" She hastily
tore herself loose.

       

Jachl understand, since there is no detention. The fact that right now has to get the train now
at the moment, who taught him that kissing is not difficult!

What a pity!

Both run breathlessly to the station. In time may Lizzie to the crowd in the Platform mix. Hundreds
chattering crowd in the car. Lizzie is sitting squeezed in between singing boys. Not even with
her handkerchief, she can wave to Jachl. -

Much longer he remains on the platform, once it has seen from the course any more. Slowly He
turns around. So much joy was probably never in it!

Almost like sobbing sounds a happy sigh at. -

* * * * *

Joachim Bohn settled yet in the work so well, "says the head gardener," but at the last He is
fallen like auf'n head "-

Yes, this is Jachl. Love is also a state where no one knows, one has still has a head or it does
not. -

When talking to others of a bride, Jachl involved now, but only a small voice. Was that a kiss
Verlobungskuß? What does he know this for? Fort he can not here so suddenly, and his long letter has
not been answered Lizzie. Waiting for the answer is worse than a disease. Jachl surprised that
the doctors of such Homesickness disease do not notice anything. Him she is usually jerks.
Since Betty's visit has he almost daily a few hours. -

Love, longing, longing for him are the same.

He never turns from Lizzie in Berlin, only on the heath. The poet makes him with Lizzie he hears
in his imagination the robins sing and whistle the March chokes, and with her he is under
the cherry tree, and they rejoice in the rich, red harvest. He put a cherry in the mouth, the so- angry
that she makes a face. Furthermore, they both laugh. Jachl promises, only with sweet cherries
come. -

Lizzie knows Lüttersloh, but not the wide heath, placed on the Jachls Schnuckenstall is, they will
realize it soon myself. Many days will be necessary to her the glories to show, between which
they now live over and over again may.

Berlin has been rapidly as the heath. Expensive flowers are there probably in moderation, but
who has such a hazel bush in Berlin on their own or those walnut?

Jachls grass garden is a glory. How much Entertainment blooms not depending on the season: snowdrops,
peonies, student and marigolds. If the grass yellow buttercups shine
Jachl is always very funny to make sense.

Lizzie is only in the grass garden believe that Berlin will continue
when comparing bad.

Jachl can imagine a life more entertaining, like the one on the heath. -

       

Pentecost it for a day leave and ask to have the case in Berlin in order. October should he be
released from the sanatorium. He counts the days. -

"Our patient Parade! Is no longer for recognition, "says the doctor,
while he Jachl foreign doctors presented.

"Has reached the's." Then the doctor speaks a bit of »Minor food intake, beneficial effect of physical
activity in well-ventilated bedroom houses and "of planned attacks
in genome Menem fight against tuberculosis.

Jachl, the exotic Write word so often hear, that he himself quite
smoothly without stuttering, even on the lips goes. -

Shortly before
Pentecost Lizzie writes at length.

Jachl dares not open his letter. Good that he is alone with the watering, no one can see how long
it between the paper fingers up and down spins. -

So with his trip to Berlin, there is nothing. Lizzie has its rule in a beach support, they
will continue long, many months. -

Writing would "not settle" Jachl with her. He is here more for the verbal. After Pentecost, the
time goes well faster. Maybe he gets a couple of days in the September holidays.

[Image]

Neatly in the terms of his fear is gone. But "what can we do about it?" - -

* * * * *

Between the convalescent sanatorium, all discussions on plans now.

Mere words such as: "At home, at Mom's, position, work, progress" can be heard.

The long August insured Jachl countless times, "that he would be a shame to as a shepherd to
stagnate. "hundreds of bodies he can get him in Berlin. Snap! In the figure!

Am happy most is the little artist that he and his neighbors will
continue along.

These boys Jachl as he has never met in Berlin. -

Jachl says little. I believe his soul trembles. Again he feels as the sun was shining brightly.

First
he wants - no matter when it arrives - in Berlin get the engagement ring, but no, that does
not work, he must have the measure of Betty's fingers. - Very miserable it is sometimes before
Joy and longing. Sometimes he does not know himself, he looks forward most to Lies or to hiccup.
It is difficult to distinguish. Neat as a fever it is, but with the lungs, it has nothing
to do. - Yes, the hiccup!

Whether forget probably one can, of them have lived together, and
their sufferings and joys knows exactly?

Jochem, who has now been so long Jachls hiccup in treatment can really
ever not write.

Laborious, tedious Jachl spelled out the notes, which from time to time Arrive what happened
in "his" stall. Always remains of his Schnuckenstall ".

Which would he get pretty rough, which doubted that his rights. -

Now today he says good-bye to all, but it gives him a shove, a whole day he just to do with
thank. Letter and he will never forget how good all of been there, and always living as he has
learned here. Yes, he will. Then they can rely on.

Connect with him twenty young people on the journey, not just the
trip to another city, but also the same trip to the hardships of life.

All moves are happy, expectant and confident of victory. -

This time, the houses appear Jachl the capital no longer as high as
the time of his first arrival.

He still finds that the sky between the roofs is as crammed.

The widest street in front of him is airless. He remains in front of butcher shops are still standing,
but not for very long. - Take it easy, he enters a pub, when he feels hungry. The Jachl little
artist has introduced into his sleeping place ".

Until the following morning, do to see if Lizzie is back. -

Posted she no longer has. He repeated again that they are serving hard time for Letter-writing
place.

Tired Jachl embarks on the first day of the bunk. The difference between the poorly ventilated,
confined space and the sleeping house that he lived so long, but very large. Only the restless
expectation of the imminent reunion to him the blood more rapidly than usual coursing through
the veins makes him insensitive to the noise of the incoming echoes
from the street and against talking loud in the room.

In like himself well that night the noise be greatest. -

If a shepherd has nerves? While he is a man: Yes!

My Jachl has no one who gives him grief and shock from the road.

Not always he will stand up in the big city.

Sometimes I am ashamed of him a little , Although I have to understand
that a sad heart is a bad companion. -

On this first night in Berlin
again, only the few words in it, "hangs from Lizzie it - from Lizzie,
it depends.

"-

Schliemann hard you quite a long time, my Jachl.

When will you wake up again so expect happy as in the days to come! -

The little artist is on time as a companion to the site.

First, the necessary purchases Jachls for beautification are made. He wonders: for sure it goes
beyond the Roads.

The cars he dodges without timidity.

In the large department store, he was raised trying on his suit with such composure in front
of the mirror, as he had always been on this As noted the impression created by it and a new suit.
-

The small painting is a good leader.

Early on against ten clock sit and strengthen both in the large department
store. - Jachl is now like a real city mansion, dressed, but for today's
visit is the waste really necessary. -

In front of the house: "Schaperstraße
24" taken leave of the painters. -

Joachim Bohn considered until
every window of the house before he rings the porter.

Maybe Lizzie just cleans the windows. see No, it is not. He slowly rises up the stairs up. Three
high stairs. "Left", the doorman has still called after him. -

"*
* Dr. Marwitz," reads Jachl.

He rings the bell. It always takes so long before someone opens?

Finally heard Jachl steps. It could be. The door opens.

"Oh, please, I want to Miss Lizzie."

Sees the light, smiling maid Joachim checking in: "Oh, the - the
past five months away from here - -"

Jachl marriage can still ask something, he stands before the closed door. -

Never thought of it has come Lizzie could have changed the location. Just innocently grandmother
as the Jachl Bohn seems to be. Only they'd better like him. She needed not seeking to take to
the registration office and they never knew how often the place Trude
had changed, until it was ever "finished"

Make Accept. - -

Something terrible is a registration office.

So calm Jachl moves then in Berlin has on the long corridors of police
headquarters he is quite dizzy.

Twice has the little artist, who was still before the house Schaperstraße 24, came down as Jachl,
Remember that the information would cost twenty-five pfennigs. Then Jachl studied so long
in his Wallet, when he could no longer distinguish one mark out of ten pence. -

"They are looking for John Doe?"

The little artist in the affirmative the question.

Minute long leaves.

"Jane Smith, currently in the maternity home, Acacia Avenue." -

Done! Done!

Jachl is on the road. He does not hear what persuaded his guide. He has such a terrible buzzing in the head,
when all cars run straight through his head, only through his head.

Up to her he must. This is nothing to remember.

About four clock he has asked to by Acacia Avenue. The road was long.

Jachl wish he would have been much longer. -

A very small sign is placed at the entrance. "Maternity home" stands out.

The first to meet him in the courtyard of the building, Liza. She carries a child on the arm
that has exactly her eyes and her nose and mouth. Immediately recognize the Jachl, although
he actually looks like everything by fog. -

In one corner of the yard they were substitutes. Lizzie has become kalkbleich. Do not know what
to say.

"It's not something so bad," she finally sought almost angry. -

Anger, pain, jealousy seize Jachl. Anger overcomes him. His arm trembled. He wants the Hand up
and hit them, he would strangle her. -

The child protection Lizzie. He has enough sense to keep: the child he does not want to hurt
you. -

Stumm, rumbling are the old friends of each other a few seconds. -

Jachl knew that girls have lovers, and that they have children, but Lizzie, be Lizzie! He feels
something dangerous rages within him. "Am I that?

What is so me red before the eyes? Just gone, here go, "he thinks.

When he had committed a crime, is running out Jachl. - -

Heart, you know nothing of Shepherd and King. You know only by people suffering and human desire.
- -

Even after a quarter of an hour Jachl slowed his pace. Before long, he steals only. In the chest
it hurts something terrible. moves from one street to another he is without purpose, without any
clear idea. -

       

Bright electric light reminds him that the evening must have long since fallen. Without to choose,
he enters a bar, a cellar, open label, according to clock up early
remains.

At a long table he sits down next half-drunken men.

»Jauersche and potato salad," he heard a voice.

"I, too," cries Jachl.

"And a White." -

"I, too," he repeated.

He eats and drinks, listen and drink until all sorrow disappears, not only dwindling, but has
given a bright gaiety. By Lizzie and her child he knows all soon more. What go at him? Since a
buxom young lady sitting next to him, one that barely seventeen is, with curly red hair and many
rings on her fingers and a mouth as red is how Jachl never saw a mouth. A white blouse stretched
over her chest, clearly you can see pink ribbon under and a shirt that is completely covered
with spikes.

"How Such fine in'n cellar? "simulated Jachl. "And so they just pushed me? In must be amazed!
Too bad that the little artist is not here, certainly knew the decision to give. "-

Unsure Jachl remembers that he was still yesterday in the sanatorium have been that he firmly promised,
all the best, what he had learned to observe further: to avoid bad air and bad Society and smoke
and heat, and alcohol and many, many things that he is now no longer remembers. Even today,
no longer remembers! -

Always fun it is fulfilled in the dim, haze of booze, overheated room.

Jachl hears the most common abuse of Article lurching figures out of the cellar. Other, stumbling
even, fall down the steps. Yelling rise men, their faces flushed dark and dripping with sweat are.
For seconds, the Jachl still wonder how he is sitting here between them. Then but will also
stop wondering. -

All have a girl by the arm. They fight and they kiss. -

Together with many Jachl is at last on the road. He noted he has one arm in arm; He thinks it's
laced with the shirt. Exactly he knows it is not. -

Jachl can not pay more. The red Jule gave him her stuffed wallet. Is heavy and fat! He weighs
admiringly in his hand. "Because I like you," she added he said and added loudly smacking a
kiss. "Zounds," laughs Jachl, 'tastes, the taste, so what's with you only here in Berlin. "

For
several minutes the fresh air has made it clear in my head. He noted the red Jule envy of others.
"Yes, this is mine," he shouts, "I heard that." Here he comes with elbows around. "Nobody ran -
no one ran," he repeated countless times, just yelling like the others.

The red Jule strokes him and tried to calm him down. Her friends treat
her the beautiful, strong boy not. She quickly comes to a sleeping
driver. "Hey, Manneken, 'Ne load. "-

In soft cushion falls Jachl.
For the first time in his life, he drives a cab.

Where the beautiful
Jules drives with him, he does not know. -

Only the next morning
when he steps out of the house, he studies: "grains road." He turns
all around. Where is he? In this area he was not before. But that
does not care now. How he died is going on.

"Goodbye," has called
the red Jule and petted him and kissed him and "treasure" said, and
"love. -

He lives after all. That is certain. But he is sick! is
to so much suffering and depravity my Jachl not used to. Not even
his hiccup he thinks. No matter they are to him, all the same. No,
he has little desire for them. He must now stay in Berlin. Yes, he
has to. Money for onward travel has not the shepherd. Does not hurt.
Whether Berlin or Lüttersloh is now matter. Nothing matters, everything,
everything. -

Grinning, he receives the little artist. Not surprised.
Yes, Berlin! If he has not previously told how things get there? Well,
to provide advice is not difficult. The new suit, yes, the need they
enable. In the old divide must Jachl back. "This is no accident; auf'n
body gets what comforts you again, "the friend.

Jachl that comes
to mind is gradually a look on his face at gottesjämmerliche the idea
of ​​the rapid separation of the best suit he had enjoyed in life.

Bravely,
the smaller painting with him in every need. Is offset quickly as
purchased. Then Go to the Hunter Street. »Mietskontor" it says. Jachls
great figure like. After twenty Minutes, he is employed, or how the
little artist calls it, "sold", so everything goes quickly, Jachl
that did not come to their senses. -

* * * * *

Jachl is suddenly
no longer Joachim, not Jachl, his name is Karl. And Shepherd is He
no longer, but servant. Shepherd will not be used in Berlin.

The
little painter assured Joachim had hit the jackpot: house servant
in livery with such make hotel. Equal exchange, he wants to! The main
thing is, in Berlin has a "what "Imagine. Yes, and imagine the "what"
is the little friend did not cooperate. -

From early to late hears
Karl Jachl call his new name. Always a commanding him, sometimes two.
He comes in front of me only as a kiddo, where he has to call no more,
here it is only ever called. In the evening he is so tired that he
falls asleep immediately. While the day he must be very careful so
as not yell rude. -

First, it was always, as I met him a blow auf'n
head. This must probably from the shock have occurred in the maternity
home. After a week it was better. - Not even so much time Jachl remains
the quiet reflection. And not so much rest, because that was the People's
Treatment Centre work against the superb, between the Jachl now has.
Silk and velvet, gold and silver, wherever he looks. His thoughts
must have an intermediate together, otherwise, they can not For use.
To the many large mirrors around the house, one have to get used.
And Then the fine folks! Jachl not like them and not Berlin, but he
well knows, being laughed at, who admits that. In Berlin, adjust the
main thing, the He quickly noted. -

Jachl never would have stayed
here, Lizzie had not turned his life completely. It is indeed with
the red Jule, this is true, but go with one and think of another,
this can happen. -

Sometimes it comes before Jachl such as if one
of which is not to see every day a great Sandbag and pour it over
Berlin. Every grain of sand is a child or an immigrant, and after
every grain of sand to watch alone, that it is not stamped into the
ground. This is probably stupid thought, but if Jachl in livery still
fine in hotel mirrors sees over and over he is the one of the sand
grains. - Yes, on the moors! There was He probably something like
a firmly rooted tree!

Very quietly, they have crept back into it,
the thought of the hiccup and the grassy garden and to Heide routes
and at the Black Angel Mach bushes, the brown bull, to the red oaks,
on the soft moss, the shy deer, the shrews and the colorful Schnirkelschnecken.
They are always with all here in this fine home. -

Best of the hotel
is a country man, even one who does not like the Berlin also. Right
Holiday hours spend both in secret, when they speak of "their" territory.
First seen they are always anxious, they know, like it is, one is
a fool if he Berlin has no pleasure. But then they start. Talkative
as usual is never Jachl. Initially the conversation is a rapidly bubbling
spring, then it slows, until everyone with a weary sigh, get up.

"Now,
what about now on the heath?," Says Karl-Jachl. "In the burning heat
of the sun the Schnuckenwege lie - man is in the hot sun are on the
moorland and peat Sting he will build the black pieces to dry up.
No one is like here in the Nearby, the calls still continue. "Or they
talk of juniper field. Or Jachl raves from the bright Nights when
it is bright like here with all the electric light. And how different
the rain trickling down than here, where it disturbs only, and where
no man has been waiting for him and day night and he longs for and
"giving thanks to God 'at the first drop and also more pleased when
he is thrown down for hours in Mollen from above.

"Sing of our rhododendron and its dark-green, wax-like leaf and purple flower; of Mingo's mighty
oak that weathered six hundred winters; of our highest peak, Spruce Knob, bony above the lush
forest; of Cranberry Glades and their strong plants native to Equator and Pole; bracing altitudes,
averaging highest east of the Mississippi.

"Sing a lay for the strawberries of Buckhannon, buckwheat of Kingwood, our lowly but uprising
spud, tobacco at Huntington, and the wine-smell of orchards in Berkeley; for the horses of
Greenbrier, Herefords of Hampshire, sheep on Allegheny slopes, deer in a dozen State Parks,
and bears in the pines of Pocahontas.

"Sing of timber, iron and steel; of coal heaved by brawny miners into the bituminous bin of
the Nation; of oil gushers and gas flow; of vitrolite and chromium, plastics and neon, rayon
and nylon; of glass stained for cathedrals of Europe; of billions of kilowatts from coal, and
potentially more water power; of fluorescent bulbs at Fairmont, and poisonous red flakes in
the Kanawha sky from metallurgical plants--fire poppies blooming in the night.

"Sing of deeds and events of deathless renown; of Morgan Morgan and his first white settlement
at Bunker Hill; of James Rumsey and his steamboat on the Potomac; of Chesapeake and Ohio's
epic completion across the State in '73 to the tune of legendary John Henry's steel-driving
ballad in Big Bend tunnel; of turnpikes, taverns and toll houses long abandoned; of our leaders,
Negro and white, in business, industry, education, religion and government; of our stalwarts
of union labor whose vision, social comprehension and courage helped to bring a new day for
all; of our cherished democracy, flexible and self-righting in a world where popular rule is
a rarity.

"I have catalogued in clumsy prose what a Thomas Dunn English or a Roy Lee Harmon could peel
off in crisp, singing lines. Surely we have gifted souls who can illumine our story in song--the
story of Mountaineers Always Free, of West Virginians always Mountaineers--for a better understanding
by the country at large ... of this land of heroic past, exhilarating present, and promising
future."

A journey through the Mountain State convinces the traveler that on her side of the Blue Ridge
West Virginia offers as many wonders under the earth as above it, if one is not a claustrophobe.
There's Gandy Sinks where my friends of the Speleological Society were trapped by a cloudburst
on August 1, 1940; and Seneca Caverns, in Monongahela National Forest, once the refuge of Seneca
Indians about twenty miles west of Franklin on U. S. Route 33, and six miles from Spruce Knob.
Caves as unbelievably beautiful as the Luray Caverns of Virginia, where the great council room
of the Seneca tribe remains as it was in the day of the redskins. There is even a legend about
Snow Bird, the only daughter of Bald Eagle and White Rock, his wife. Inside the cavern, if
you look carefully, there is to be seen the outline of the lovely face of Snow Bird on the
great stone wall. There are a Wigwam, and an Iceberg, an Alligator, and the Golden Horseshoe
and Balcony of the Metropolitan, all in natural stone formation.

West Virginia has developed 84,186 acres in its state-park and forest system. Sparkling rivers
flow throughout the state. At the junction of the Ohio and Kanawha Rivers where Daniel Boone
once roamed there is a monument commemorating the battle of the Revolution between colonial
troops and Indians. Here too are the graves of a woman scout, "Mad Anne" Bailey, and a Shawnee
chieftain, Cornstalk. There are hundreds of miles of trails, safe underfoot, but flanked by
as wild and rugged lands as ever infested by the Indian.

                            VALLEY OF PARKS

If Dr. Walker, the English explorer, should return to the earth today and visit the Big Sandy
country near the point where he first entered the state of Kentucky, he'd be amazed at the
sight which would greet his eyes. Cities have sprung up where once was wilderness. Yet one
natural beauty of the country remains unchanged: the great gorge made by Russell Fork of Levisa
Fork of the Big Sandy, breaking through the mountain at an elevation of 2800 feet--The Breaks
of Big Sandy. First,
he, seeing it is the "Jachl," had no idea that he was called. But like do it to him, and woe
to him from now on call otherwise; only the uncle, who can do this because he yet so old, call
next »Jachl."

Joachim painted in quiet enthusiasm letters. No one cares about his school work, as no one has
worried about its games. He spells busy, not because he diligently to be considered necessary,
but because he is curious, "what" is. Prior to six months goes to school, he knows his reading
book by heart, each poem and each story. Always He has to his uncle a patient listener. I see,
well, uncle, "he asks at all times. Jachl has not unjustified feeling that the pitch of the
old habit of more than the Springs from understanding. Terrible he must speak loudly, the uncle
is over the years quite become deaf. He can see bad. That one could ask a doctor, is both
not one. For "doctoring" the old man never was.

Also not for reflection. -

"Ohm, where I will stay if you're dead?"

Asks the boy.

"I live has still Jachl."

"But when you die?"

A little fear is sometimes mistaken by Jachls head, and only a weak ancestors that children better
than he could. Maybe not better, just different. -

If freedom really would be a precious gift ever, one would Jachl to the landowners are counted. It
is certain that he is not aware of such property, and that he was
too young Is to not be threatened by it often. -

No eye is there,
for his suit is too poor or too thin.

Three years ago, inherited Jachl its current of the mayor's son. At that time he was shaking
him by the gaunt limbs. Now long stretch his arms far out from the short sleeves. Contrary to
custom, First that the shorts have their turn and then the long, holds the Jachl's vice versa.
Only a little above the knee allows the pants, the color of long
unfathomable become is drag. -

Jachl knows no illness.

Once he had a toothache. The uncle immediately offered to Off. Without long preparation -
despite uncertain knowledge - the old man really tore the real culprits
out.

Jachl roared to a minute, but he did not doubt that the Extracting
a tooth is always the case, could only be done Sun -

After a brawl
in the village street one day, the eight-year-old with a request to
the old man fed skipped:

"You, Ohm, where is'n eijentlich my father?"

"God knows where the'm gonna wind in the world!"

'And my Mutta? "

      
      "I know also non -> address unknown '"!

The
      hut in which they both live,
      got gradually a strange wall decoration.
      At the beginning of the Easter
      holidays Jachl always brings home
      a large printed sheet on which
      of Rosen crowned the words are
      read:
      

"Because you from every evil thing Stayed away and held up modestly And attentive in every
department You give all possible effort So take this in remembrance This honor as a sign of leaf,
That thou in all things If possible, done enough And bear it home as a feast for the eyes To your
parents' comfort and joy. "

Carefully glued Jachl leaves his honor on the wall, another and another
and another one of to do so.

Long since he knows the red ink strokes, that the teacher through the "To your Parents' comfort
and pleasure driving, "and the even letters for his consolation Ohmes and proclaim joy. To him
the beautiful verse appears no less beautiful. - Only consolation? The Ohm's no consolation needed,
and of too much joy it is watching the honor blade nothing to note.

Do as much science teachers are not required by the Lord. Just the basic subjects complain the
heads of his farm boys. How much Jachl despite good watching does not understand happen in school
never to light. As is often the religion lesson of moral force the speech. Force for puffing
and pushing, which is the boy in the school that may not be but moral
force is only deficient in their thick skulls bring. has no hesitation
Jachl in the Christian doctrine of the words recited: "The wicked
gang robbed me, but I forget thy law do not.

       "Although he does not know when the wicked gang robbed him, but all
that the Lord proclaimed teacher of the Bible, which is to be so.

So try the school boy to believe in this robbery.

* * * * *

The more I know my Jachl, the more I am inclined to the idea, one
should actually are among the lucky children.

He always takes things as they are. Then it does not have Overcoming or tedious Consider brought, but innate predisposition.
Maybe Is it a happy instinct with which he was blessed; rebellion is not in his life list, and
yet one can not call it temperament.

       

If I only knew who his father was! I would like to inheritance Jachl sake deep into all possibilities
. Sink - From his mother I could not explore much. I must have her dress learned to see them
but not know their heart.

* * * * *

The thirteen-year-old is kind of the "breadwinner" of the family. Tiny enough though their consumption,
although he may be afraid of no work, if they are getting tired want.

Earn money appears Jachl the very first, no matter how old one.

The school allowed him only occupations. Stables can scour the farmers,
cows To milk to feed pigs.

Jachl find all these wonderful works. It is very important before. The brown stains cow certainly
knows him, and every pig grunts just him particularly lovingly. The uncle has in the few moments
that Jachl eating next to him, spends always nod when the boy tells of all his wonderful adventures.

What
is the Jachl but a strange! No evidence of "neglect" are at it. How a Gentile Busch, it occurs
to me, the weather is doing no damage easily. He does not know different that all sorts of
adversity there is about him. "What should we do about it? It's so. "-

The heath with all that blooms on it and grows and breathes, filled
his mind constantly.

To steal or cheat, they can not free him. In the winter, in summer, is always much Living attracted
to her and just the living Jachl. He knows near each krüpplige Spruce, at Heather Lane, each
black Mach Angel Busch, each and every Schnuckenstall Scheper. Before the May trees, he is
young and looks at her as he could see them grow.

No Natural history book in his possession, but he has watched so good when the uncle and the
Schaefer and tell the servants that he has sprung to deal with animal and plant understands.

Jachl
charged for months after the dates have yet to pass before him - to him alone - The hiccup or
the geese or the cows are entrusted. It varies, which flock would
be his favorite.

In his mind he lives alternately with lamb, geese and A cow.

Each type requires another understanding. The white Jachl.

Over a career break to his head, he is spared. Before an election he will not made. What should
he be different as a shepherd? Were it only has Easter! Until then Jachl of much worry, but afterwards
- then - yes, then surely listened to all the toil! A wandering on the heath hats boys surely
can anything again?

[Image]

Only the Jachl go but in a colorful, wild confusion thousand things to mind: A nonexistent confirmation
suit, then the confirmation verse: "Even though my father and My mother left me, take me to
the Lord, "to the admonitions of the priest this sentence ties, and
also the concern that the farmer also choose no other hats for boys
is, and the question of when the airship, from which the tourists
speak Schulze, really and will fly the ones in the summer here on
Lüttersloh?

Moment is deeply thoughtful Jachl before the Ohms Sunday trousers. The old man can do without
them; he has given him. If the worst posts would be cut?

It could be fine. Schneider Kiekebusch are at work but certainly no trouble. Jachl turns the
pants back and forth. Whether he tried to change it yourself? First, he starts with water to soap
and rub. With zeal, he is fiery red. During school hours he hangs it on Drying on a rod that
is driven outside the stable in the ground.

On this day, watching in the class is very difficult. How will he see his treasure? Unchanged
greasy and stained or beautifully clean? At a gallop he runs the stairs after school down. A few
minutes later, he triumphantly tells the Ohms his treasure.

He finds the Pants almost as good as a brand-new. -

Late at night to torment Jachl to make them tighter.

That can not be that hard.

Two Needles but are already broken and nothing is yet achieved. What to do? Girls understand
something better. What should he ask?

Too small, he wants his "nice" pants now but not trust, and a wide dares not approach it right.
- It must, however, probably be. Lies he remembers. He has spoken for years barely. With the
girl has a boy but nothing to say. Right now she is learning to sew, by chance he learned it.
Terrible fear he has in front of being laughed at. Does anyone know how girls are! But he took courage.
There is no other way. Marching go! The best thing is, he immediately tries his luck.

He quietly slips under the window to hear if the machine is still rattling. Yes, Liza sew. She seems
to be alone in the room.

Jachl knocks on the window.

"What is?"

Cries a young voice.

'Come to the window. "

Lizzie gets up quick. Although she is two years older than the boy, he towers over them significant.
Would pass someone, he would suggest a rendezvous.

Stuttering brings Jachl his request. He has never really girls with twenty words spoken. The pants
he keeps Lizzie before his eyes in order to explain quite accurately, where and how much it
has to be stitched. They readily promised their help.

"If I not only corrupts, "she adds uncertainly. The next evening will Jachl his property back
as. Flip! The window is flown. Relieved and happy he jumps to Home. -

So close Jachl girl has never seen. What they have just for the eyes! They shine so great like
a Stallatern '! -

Jachl that does not yet spent sleepless night, threw himself uneasily.
"Will she they spoil?

What has his hands for Lizzie, and how were their hair?

Indeed, black such as coal. "

In Jachls head to Lizzie has crept into it! Very wide makes and drives him anything from the
chest. -

The next morning, it does not like him otherwise, that his presence in the stable for each Cow
is a pleasure. He thinks only of his pants and in the evening. -

About 9 clock he knocks on the neighboring window. Lizzie keeps him beaming out their work,
thereby she asked him anxiously: "Where is because your skirt?

And you have a hat for the consecration? "

Yes, coat and hat and boots! Jachl told that the farmer has promised him a skirt. Still very good
teacher should be just too great. And a hat he may buy new, quite correctly new. But boots?
From the grandmother still stand as two pair, not bad they are.

If they wanted to see Lizzie?

She wants. Soon she accompanies her new friend in his room. The uncle
snores.

Jachl try the boots. Ever, now his feet are larger than that of the grandmother were! But if
he pulls hard, but maybe he will get the boot. The occurrence was first very difficult, but after
a few minutes's hurts less. And boots "in" are probably never be a pleasure.

Lizzie decides: Jachl can wear the boots still. No one will recognize you.

For Hutkauf they will go too, and the rock they want, as the trousers, preparing together. -

"Well, because until tomorrow, Jachl!"

In the next few days to learn Jachl know for the first time in his life being sick. He does not
like Do not eat, sleep, a terrible burning sensation in the chest and he was very loud heartbeat. His
legs tremble sometimes, and everything danced before his eyes.

If he do with Lizzie discusses the disease is worst.

From the Ohm Jachl has an aversion to the "Dokters" inherited. He tries so alone his suffering
is finished. Terribly hard it is, to feed pigs, milk the cows, to scrub stables, taking confirmation
classes to do homework, wardrobe needs by suffering, while still get rid of a disease like!

Jachl cooks tea, get the same tea, which the cow when she yells too much. It helps a little,
but has to be for ever Jachl sick time? -

       

As he trots beside Lizzie in the next small town, he probably still shaking, but they but happy
talk of everything possible. On the way home he is almost well. Its stiff Hat he wears well
wrapped under his arm. He has him aufprobiert before a long, wide mirror, is not a bit has
been broken. For the first time provides Jachl himself. "The light-haired, laughing, big man
- I am? Really? "

One second it passes through unbridled joy.

"What are you looking for still?" Asked Lizzie, "a lovely art thou, that thou knowest."

Jachl goes way: "A pretty are you - a handsome you are!"

Schneider Kiekebusch must be called to convert the coat yet. He is not to . Deal Lizzie is alone
dares not approach. Jachl asks first and it was not long, because:
"Is certain" safe.

Has he noticed yet in adapting the "beautiful" pants with dismay that Lizzie has a little stitched
too much, and that the tightness of pants is anything but agreeable is. - Great match but then
the day after Betty's blessing of the Judgement whole suit. No one knows how much press Jachl the shoes,
just as it is in the "nice" pants pressed, and in that the black gloves (they are also the grandmother)
has the curvature of a finger to make a misery.

      "In the safe condition by the
      next day from" a made man
      to be overcome, Jachl all
      the inconveniences. -

For
      several minutes he hoped
      the good Lord, whose kindness
      he very much in the last few weeks,
      heard him will surprise you on this very day with his father or mother.

      But it was not involved.
      -
      
      Today, all are dressed in
      Lüttersloh as the city gentlemen.
      Jachl is also terribly nobel
      before.
      

His thoughts are not as much as it is prescribed, the dear God.

      While the very solemn moment
      of kneeling is, him - oh, it
      is shameful - That he lacked an
      umbrella, and that just an umbrella in her hand a well-dressed Boys
always first "complete" do. -

That afternoon Jachl again feels much
the disease.

This is because he must take leave of Lies, which is leased to the city.

* * * * *

In the weeks that their friendship has Jachl often as possible close to his only friend sought.
Once - it is ridiculous - as if he had met with massive, and their Lies Put his hand gently on
the body has become blue, Jachl promised and "mother" said to her. Both were laughing hard! Mother!
The boy that name has never before so placed tenderly on the lips. -

So, wants to Lüneburg Lizzie, to where the girls instead of caps hats on the thick Hair Braiding
stülpen. In Jachls idea is frightening Lüneburg large: about as big
Newyork , or London for experienced travelers.

So far in the world, he will probably never come!

What should He also Lüneburg?

Shepherd will be there, they have more than they need, and Jachls senses and efforts goes
so only after the shepherd state. -

Until the next station, he helps take Betty's basket. Each of them has one of the fixed side handles
combined. In comparison to his own possessions appear Jachl Betty's Possession of clothing and
lingerie huge. He does not know how happy are their parents, that now from the back of a large
group of children goes independent, and may result in a foreign land. -

       

Due to high juniper they walk in the first days earlier. Much Jachl would say. In Lüneburg,
in such a big, big city, they all certainly a treasure. Yes there
are also perhaps soldiers!

This idea makes again Jachls disease much worse. Only monosyllabic as otherwise he walks on.
Lizzie promises to write and respond Jachl. When Go they begin to sing. Due to the fine silvery
mist of it moves, it sounds less well as loud

When would hope not,
' So I no longer alive; Because the only hope Can ease the pain.

And how it went for, And how it went for her - And how it went for her - - When hope would not
'?

In winter, we must Great Cold ausstahn, - And in summer there it is A gruesome Hitz! - - And
how it went for, And how it went for her - And how it went for her - - When hope would not '?

Ten,
twenty times to repeat mechanically the same way:

And how it went for, And how it went for her - And how it went for her - - When hope would not '? - -

Lizzie is in your mind already far away. Each step brings them even closer to the new life.

What a shame that the affliction Jachl blows, "she thinks. "What did he just why he stares at me
today always like that? He knows how I look. "

Yes, he knows it really?

Does he know that he goes there next to a sparkling clean girl? I think not. In Lüttersloh
they all have rosy cheeks, long tresses and laughing eyes. Only that Betty's a little different
than most, he feels uncertain.

But if they would do otherwise, would have the Jachl but with all of its unspent tenderness clinging
to them. Someone who has time for him! Someone mitberührt his weal and woe! That someone must
not put his whole heart in turmoil? -

All too soon the tiny station appeared from the fog. You arrive an hour early. Such Travelers
such as these are always at least an hour early. -

Evaporated slowly approached the local railway.

"Well, then take care," Lizzie calls when shaking hands.

Jachl pushes sent the basket in the * * Class IV, and after Lizzie
jumps.

Before he quite understand, he stands alone on the sidewalk. -

[Image]

Boys know, do not cry. When boys cry, it's a disgrace. Around the world this applies only Jachl
pulls out a colorful handkerchief, blows his nose loudly and go west
at the Opportunity over the eyes.

Once and several times.

Then he stuffed the cloth slowly in the bag, turns around and trots back out for Lüttersloh. -
* * * * *

Lots of time to grieve him not all. He also has days later
at his service. Not Cows, not the geese, but the Heidschnucken passed
his care. -

The uncle does not make much fuss about Jachls first
took office. "One after another is unusable, then the next person's
turn '; Jachl today is it - is not forever stay tuned "-

As is the
custom, the shepherd moves with spacious inside in the barn. Only
a grid separated Shepherd and flock. On the deserted steppe is stable,
for the hiccup need large areas. Not rise rapidly after the grazed
heather. -

Jachl never heard the eloquent people. "Lazy," he scold
his friends. Who not better understood, who may well call it that.
His thoughts are so diligent. Now it's probably fortunate that he
is not of many words, or he would run at breakneck speed back to Lüttersloh.
-

Many of the customs and rules which are required by its new state,
are not unknown to him. From a den, he moved into a house; this is
his change of residence. The five-year Jachl already attracted every
bell sounding Schnuckenherde. He passionately attached to animals
and he has always envied the boy hats. Them eagerly followed his gaze.
-

The house he now entrusted to him seems particularly valuable.
Ancient oaks and pines high surround him. You see when you look volatile,
little more than a shaggy, blackish Roof, the edges almost touch the
ground. The square in front of the lower roof is gnawed bare and completely
crushed. -

Tried old shepherd is a "rare" items. Poor easy to set
up a lot of damage. Sometimes money and give good words no good shepherd.
Lighter is a professor replaced as a Schnuckenschäfer.

Jachl feels
almost created for this office. No other state seems to him so wonderfully.
A real shepherd must probably have just such thoughts as they rumble
in his head. And such a love for everything that crawls and flies.
And so little curiosity about all this, what else going on in the
world. -

Many, many thousands of small, blue-gray heather sheep are
in Jachls stable over the years been squeezed. Neat devoutly agrees
with the boys this idea. If he but only all would have seen!

A few
steps away from Jachls Schnuckenstall a cross is erected. Countless
times He has heard the tale, as once an old shepherd leaning against
a birch tree, asleep standing is. The nod of the sleeper had seen
the goat as a challenge to a fight and so furiously pounced on the
shepherd, that the unfortunate man with a shattered skull Ground sank.
Jachl always raises a shy glance at the cross, when he has it over.
-

Its introduction into the service, it cuts pretty irreverent often
with the words: "Does it - do so," is to him along with that, if disease
breaks out in the herd. or if it otherwise met a mishap. He is not,
as he calls it, "the breath" , He must also go out fro for hours on
the moorland sheep. He knows that they best day and night, winter
and summer, moving in erratic haste out there. Before cold and damp
Night air, he wants to preserve certain. Each animal will guard it
like life itself.

[Image]

"Does it - do it! Even in winter they
run, bowed their heads, sliding and tripping through the snow. But
when this giant mountaineer's eyes were opened to the evil of his ways, after the death of
his father, Alvin C. York forsook his old habits once and for all. When the World War came
he declared himself a conscientious objector. His church--the Church of Christ in Christian
Union--held that war was a sin. York had a terrific struggle deciding his duty between God
and patriotism. He loved his God. He loved his country. He made every effort to obtain exemption
because he firmly believed it a sin to fight and to kill, even for the sake of one's country.
But for all that, he could not gain exemption. Whereupon York went alone into the mountains
and fervently prayed for guidance. When the voice of God pointed the way he followed, with
the result that all the world knows.

"You might call my escape from death purely a matter of luck, but I know different," he says.
"It was faith in God that kept me safe. I prayed that day alone on the mountain and asked Him
to bring me back home alive and well and He did. I knowed He would. That's what faith in God
will do for a man."

Alvin York is a true mountain man. He seeks neither praise nor self-glory. Upon returning from
the World War he spurned a fortune in pictures and vaudeville appearances, refusing steadfastly
to commercialize his war record. And with the same determination he declined to sell out to
small politicians who tried to use him when he undertook to raise funds to start a school for
mountain boys and girls. Knowing the need of the young people of his Tennessee mountains, York
has made his life purpose to give them "a heap o' larnin'." This he has continued to do year
after year through the York Agricultural School near Jamestown, Tennessee. Mountain folk call
it Jimtown. Now there's a highway running through the town called York Highway.

Sergeant York likes to sing. He "takened lessons in Byrdstown," and being especially fond of
singing hymns, he acquired the name of "The Singing Elder." He teaches a Sunday School class
and did even before he went to war. He admits smilingly that his fight with "small politicians"
who wanted to use him and his war record was a worse battle than that of the Argonne Forest.
Alvin York married his childhood sweetheart, Gracie Williams, upon returning from war, and
the Governor of Tennessee performed the ceremony at Pall Mall where the mountain hero was born.
He is the father of seven children. For some time he served as project superintendent at a
CCC camp in the Tennessee mountains. He is president emeritus of the school he founded and
has written his life's story in a simple, straightforward way, with never the slightest hint
of boastfulness.

When it came to putting in parts of official records and commendation of his heroism, Sergeant
York did so reluctantly. "But it has to be put in, I reckon." He finally had to give in.

Sergeant York's achievement, capturing single-handed 132 Germans, killing 20 others, and destroying
35 machine-gun nests stands unparalleled. Waste is your eloquence,
is your image transfer, is the seed that you ausstreust.

       

* * * * *

Jachl, which is nothing but the Scheper, as the peasant boy is, but perhaps by the Heide "even
a" become! Not only by the heath, but with their help. Yes, that is he! Absolutely! He does
not need to be in front of a city or before a student apprentice or to be embarrassed in front
of a prince, although he was only a blue-colored linen jacket with two With rows of bright buttons
and a loose umbrella hat, from the skin of a young black Schnuckenlammes is sewn. "From patent leather
shoes and embroidered Chemisetts and all the" necessities, which surely must have a young man,
he knows nothing.

But - need to hide - no but he is not my Jachl. Especially because of his thoughts, I mean. And
thoughts are I suppose the main thing.

What Jachl really think?

Never great, accessible only to the ordinary, such as in cattle or
to pasture or wool trade or peat or beets or small servants or Great
servants and more like what is - but, yes, a 'but' is there.

But what a? You have to feel it well, I think. For it is hard to explain.

       

Ideas also have their license and their sheen.

Maybe I have my Jachl only so much, because he never gets the idea that on Earth are people
who have it much, much better than him. He leaves, spikes, thorns, and be Rosen, Rosen, he seeks
not ask to see the mountains, he sees much beauty in the valley. - -

      
      * * * * *

Lizzie has said in one of her letters, "a shepherd who only sit around
on the heath, what is boring. " Well, then, must Jachl but sometimes
a Sunday dance in the near Kirchdorf . Try What must be must be! Lizzie
will understand it well! Girls are to something better. - From Jachls
poor health, she knows nothing. If it were in his Nearby, they would
have long been lured away from him and his hiccup. As always, she
sang:

"Come, dance with me, dance with me, I have 'ne colorful apron
"- -

considered and it has always Jachl! Mr. Stamper is the father of twenty-seven children, seventeen of whom are living."

               WHEN SINGING COMES IN, FIGHTING GOES OUT

Mountain folk, especially those who have had the misfortune of being mixed in troubles (feuds
to the outside world) believe earnestly that "when singing comes in, fighting goes out." "Look
at the Hatfields and McCoys," they say. "They make music together now at the home of one side
and now at the home of them on t'other side. They sit side-by-side on the bench at the Singing
Gathering down on the Mayo Trail come the second Sunday in June every year. If not in the night, but in the morning or in the mornings. Just be patient
must have one, then it can not do anything here. -

Jachl do not know, is he the soft snow that gives way or is that mud
on the spot yet so soft and shaky.

Reels the Jachl or the Moor?

"'S is still the cumin," he decides, angry at his pleasure trip.

He vows to never make more than one or sometimes with Lizzie, as a fit for the on the other.

In the heat of the vow noted Jachl initially did not want him worrying
deeper into the white Moor has slipped.

Above the knee, he's in it. Sudden horror seized him. Terrible it is felt. The life he is
suddenly so alert and before the death of so sad.

"No - do not die," he shouts, "Do not die - no, without stopping,
piercing only the two words - screaming - screaming, then quieter,
softer than ever - no whining " do not die - - do not die - die "-

Apathetic
and silently drops down the thick snow. -

Jachl knows the danger
in which it is located.

He touched, so it might be even faster in depth. - Hot lust for life torturing him. What to do? What
to do? In agony, he suddenly begins to whistle, it's so loud and uproariously, as he has never been
geflötet in life. Perhaps the assumption listening to a man in the morning and look across the
heath and where the sound comes. Jachl can scream no more, no more screaming, no whining, all
of his power has the flutes implemented. He whistles, it whistles, as if the cessation of his certain
death.

[Image]

On bog ditch along two heath hunter walking through the white desert. Full of expectation, they
keep Umschau. They listen. They stare at one point, they realize that something there in the
snow , There is something that has to save the man. Cautiously they venture closer. You keep
the Jachl a long, solid spear point, which they carry.

       Carefully he picks, firm, very determined yet he listens not to whistle.

Yes, indeed: the shepherd has fluting the death of the Turned back.

* * * * *

Jachl death really came back? Sure it is not.
First the cow doctor shook his head. Why should not it understand?
"Cattle are cattle," he says when he gets time to treat an ox instead
of a servant.

Months have passed since Jachls dance journey. Long
he stores again with his hiccup in the summer heat, long talk back
all kinds of birds in the reeds and in the bushes.

The mosquitoes
have been a little too bold. They have taught some hiccup large wounds.
In vain she rubbed Jachl with axle grease and tar.
The press is cognizant of the farflung effort throughout the land. The Atlanta Journal (September
19, 1928) says, "The collection and preservation of mountain folk music is a singularly gracious
work and one of rare value to history. Collected in its natural environment, it is perforce
authentic both in tune and idiom, and sincere collectors are not content with this alone--they
complete the record by tracing the songs to their origins. Such is a most gracious work and
one which lovers of beauty, whether music or in legend or in local history, throughout the
South, would do well to imitate."

Far removed from the metropolitan area where great singers interpret the simple songs of our
forbears and urge the necessity of their preservation, an untrained mountain minstrel is lending
his every effort to aid not only in conserving but in correlating as well the folk lore of
the Blue Ridge Country. 

Jachl opens his eyes, as far as possible because he believes he can thereby see better.

Narrow and long is the unknown, with wings that run like wheels, and
the roaring ever closer approach.

Fire red is Jachl. There is no one who could study with him the miracle.

The only hiccup. They have pressed close together; the noise is not them feel uncomfortable.
But even by shrugs it Jachl: An airship - that must be a blimp! -

First, he stops as nailed, and then he begins to run. Without thought, he runs burning in blazing
heat for hours after the airship - it must yet again become visible, - Track and run with him
all his hiccup like the furies. -

Jachl is like a madman. It drives him on, just continue.

He does not feel the heat, he hears not bark Pitt and pot, and he does not notice that he appears
tough perennials that his feet . Puncture Criss-cross, he is always
looking through the eyes of the wonder, the rustling seemed to be
sailing.

The arms he stretched into the air, as if to tear the airship from the sky; He cranes his neck,
which is not yet extend to a gooseneck. - - -

Jachl, my Jachl, stand still!

Do not run into the distance so unwise! What do you care about the air ship? You do not belong
to the pilots - not you. - But can not you hear my voice. Poor Jachl. -

In restless zigzag the shepherd runs for hours. Perhaps he did catch sight again! Rasch, still
faster! The hiccup he has forgotten. He does not notice that sweat and they covered the body. To heat
the Jachl is accustomed, at night it is often for months as bathed
in sweat. -

Towards evening, he collapses in a sand hole.

Never mind. He will quickly rise. Something warm it springs from the mouth. He grasps with his
hand after that. The hand is turned red. Is that blood? Oh yes, blood. -

Jachl not frightened. He wants to wipe it, but more and more, ever faster it flows it red and
hot on the lips.

His eyes fall: heather, airship, stoves are vanished. -

A quarter of an hour passes, as something which comes Jachl the leg. He still can not move.
His hiccup is there, then run over to him, Tripp - Tripp, back and forth, as may please them especially
in this rough piece of heath. - Pitt and barking furiously pot.

Yes, They are right to resent about the shepherd who was only too quickly, and now the lazy lie
in the sand remains. - -

Finally makes Jachl slowly on its way. How far is he away from his stall? He can be found not
cope. Quite light, it is no more.

And is on his feet he quite weak. He is looking bushes and logs,
where he can talk.

Something which has to catch it. The hiccup is missing their pet, but today he is missing from the
shepherds.

Stretch out who wants to cover and warm and sleep, no sleep. -

Moth stagger through the air. Bats flit in the juniper bushes. Stars twinkle. Everywhere light
and air, despite the night time to sleep but the good Lord created
is how Jachl has always meant.

He has never watched through a night out so completely. -

Slowly
sweeps in the east on the red sky. Jachl falls on a tree stump. He
must be a While resting, he can not continue.

His thoughts are his
own strange. What do they want other ideas?

Experienced people call
the feeling that you, my Jachl, oppressed in these minutes: longing.
But you should know to call it right?

You just take deep into your
content-rich pocket and looking until you have something wrapped bits
have been found. Cautiously you take a picture of it and see it sink
again between And matches keys and pocket knives and scissors and
string and all the many other things that you do employ necessary.
-

About 10 clock in the morning Jachl looks at long last the distance
his stable. Though maybe sometime it's been for
the best. This piece was writ by a mighty knowing man. His name is Robert J. Casey and he flew
from Chicago for his paper the Chicago Daily News to hear with his own ears the music of the
mountains from the lips of mountain singers at Traipsin' Woman cabin on the Mayo Trail the
second Sunday in June, 1938." 

Finally, finally, thank God, it will be there.

"Berlin! get everything, "the conductor calls by 6 clock 1 minutes early in the morning.

Jachl follows his path comrades. It can be up to the lock with push through. Outside studied
He once again the note on which it is concerned to proceed carefully written. - A few hours
he has to look good in Berlin. This is yet not different. Will this be a job!

With the little sky - it looks like it - that's right! Such crowd is always between the tall buildings,
crowded together as if to hiccup.

Jachl it is often the way - He knows well that's just stupid of him - as the houses shook with
the many, many Windows. In front of a butcher shop he stops. The sheep, which he considered
checking, are the first sensible thing he saw in Berlin. Most of all he did not move from here
Stain. The Street is so, how would storm when the time.

What people have invented just everything! And as so many think of it! If Jachl home goes over
the field, then he knows he can not do anything, but this may well
each Day will come that died.

This comes only from the many inventions. Why is this necessary?

Jachl has indeed his cough, but are otherwise healthy but most strongly and that nothing to
do with Berlin and all its Erfinderei have. For this purpose they have in such a hurry, all run
always as Jachl exceptionally runny times behind a kiddo.

Yes, have to walk them out. One does not look to the other. How can there be here so please
Lies?

In Hamburg, she has not gone long.

She voluntarily went to Berlin.

Jachl know that there are plenty in the world, with a say he can not, however, may wonder he says.
That he may not defend. So hard times at first he wondered about that a Man can voluntarily travel
to Berlin.

Neat easier it is during the wondering. Almost like it is contempt. But the does not distinguish my
Jachl. -

Although he growls of the stomach, it will not enter a pub.

He does not dare. Rather starve and thirst.

What must a man know everything will, in Berlin, do not worry.

Jachl is certainly not a coward. As he is at home alone hergerannt behind the box, as it had
made the wasp wild! And otherwise, he feared no danger. But here in Berlin must be of an entirely
different science be. He feels as if they all are too proud and have
eyes in the back and front. Many Years may well belong to, to get
as much of an eye, that he fashioned from all the not come to harm.
-

Probably has ten times Jachl pulled his clock to see if it still
does not continue can.

If he at least knew the house where Lizzie
lives. But in the last letter she has he wrote down a road that no
one here knows. "Berlin," general delivery. People laugh as often
as he asks: "Please, where can I get general delivery to the street"
-?

Then decides Jachl quietly endure before the butcher shop window
until it is time to leave. He watches the girls who enter the shop
the business. Clean they are all. That's true!

"'... The day of isolated communities and isolated culture in the United States is already
past.... The hill folk have been known to the flatland people chiefly for feuds and moonshine.
Perhaps tempers are no less quick, but it's less trouble to get to court and have grievances
adjudicated according to law. And the music is going--and the traditional dances. Are you healthy? I think of you every night.

      

Your warm Lies. "

There is already Jachls disease: Heart palpitations and strange feeling in which we do not know
one should walk or sit still and laugh or cry.

The time on the heath has improved the disease, and now she is come again. It is almost as if the letter
she brought. Jachl turns it back and forth, and he must think again, whether there Lieschen already acquired
a treasure.

"What a piece of paper," he muses, "comes from far away, approached
no differently than a bird."

And just such a bird, he will now let fly. Writing was always his favorite hour. Previously,
he has no fear. The teacher praised him there and told the other boys should make it so proper.
Yes - yes - but that was just written off or dictation, something what to think up alone,
the Jachl tried before.

Writing paper he has not, must surely be the bow. But on the bright yellow, clean Paper bag, which
he has combined well with him, he can try it.

Between a thousand crumbs and tools he finds in his pocket a small blue pen. Just as he has
chosen a good place to start with, bark Pitt and pot, the dogs, husky
and angry.

"What's the matter?" Jachl stumbles on the ground to long hinwindenden pines. Peacefully grazing
the flock. Pitt and pot seem Jachl letter writing not to succumb to. "Just wait, you - -"

Once again he is preparing to start. The table replaces a short, smooth
stump. Without long consideration, he paints cowering letter by letter:

"Dear
Lizzie, I know no beginning. But he is yet. In school I was good at
Spelling, but a letter is probably quite different. Once we had one
on a Describe holiday. I had very good underneath. I only knew at
first, write to whom, I wrote to my dear mother.

With quick gesture he enumerated upon his fingers as he named some of them: "There's the Forest
Festival held in October at Elkins, West Virginia, with a pretty mountain maid for its Queen;
the Tobacco Festival in Shelbyville, Kentucky, that pays homage to the leading product of the
Blue Grass country, next to the race horse, of course; there's the Mountain Laurel Festival
at Pineville, Kentucky, in May, glorifying the beauty and profusion of the mountain flower;
the Virginia Apple Blossom Festival in April in the Shenandoah Valley at Winchester, Virginia--a
wilderness of blossoms that has made beautiful a once lonely valley; the Rhododendron Festival
in Webster Springs, West Virginia, in July, that vies in charm with a like event in Kentucky;
the Sweet Potato Festival in Paris, Tennessee, that pays tribute to the yam; the American Folk
Song Festival in the foothills of Kentucky. That was nonsense
with "chronic. -

The little painter dedicates Jachl - in spite of "chronic" - the secrets of Berlin, not in the
worst of all, but in things that a herding boy if he was already a Schaefer is correct, can
know nothing. To his illness, assured the neighbor was the sleeping place blame, well, because
what happens! and his fiancee, who's also on the Lung. -

That each
have a bride in Berlin with sixteen and eighteen years, must Jachl
shines again not one.

In Berlin, they are probably much further.

Most of all the little artist tells of the theater. Theater is very difficult to understand if
It has a never seen before. Jachl will not argue, but what can at all that had powers, what it all
is his only thought up? His eyes are still blue from her than before. He always has something like "pondering"
in the eyes, "something decent," he has in itself - something like - what they laugh in Berlin.
Why Lizzie has not only visited him earlier? She was left well alone
God?