If we realize that all visible things must have their origin in spirit, then the whole creation
around us is the standing evidence that the starting-point of all things is in thought-images
or ideas, for no other action than the formation of such images can be conceived of spirit
prior to its manifestation in matter. If, then, this is spirit's modus operandi for self-expression,
we have only to transfer this conception from the scale of cosmic spirit working on the plane
of the universal to that of individualized spirit working on the plane of the particular, to
see that the formation of an ideal image by means of our thought is setting first cause in
motion with regard to this specific object. There is no difference in kind between the operation
of first cause in the universal and in the particular, the difference is only a difference
of scale, but the power itself is identical. We must therefore always be very clear as to whether
we are consciously using first cause or not. Note the word "consciously" because, whether consciously
or unconsciously, we are always using first cause; and it was for this reason I emphasized
the fact that the Universal Mind is purely subjective and therefore bound by the laws which
apply to subjective mind on whatever scale. Hence we are always impressing some sort of ideas
upon it, whether we are aware of the fact or not, and all our existing limitations result from
our having habitually impressed upon it that idea of limitation which we have imbibed by restricting
all possibility to the region of secondary causes. But now when investigation has shown us
that conditions are never causes in themselves, but only the subsequent links of a chain started
on the plane of the pure ideal, what we have to do is to reverse our method of thinking and
regard the ideal as the real, and the outward manifestation as a mere reflection which must
change with every change of the object which casts it. For these reasons it is essential to
know whether we are consciously making use of first cause with a definite purpose or not, and
the criterion is this. If we regard the fulfilment of our purpose as contingent upon any circumstances,
past, present, or future, we are not making use of first cause; we have descended to the level
of secondary causation, which is the region of doubts, fears, and limitations, all of which
we are impressing upon the universal subjective mind with the inevitable result that it will
build up corresponding external conditions. But if we realize that the region of secondary
causes is the region of mere reflections we shall not think of our purpose as contingent on
any conditions whatever, but shall know that by forming the idea of it in the absolute, and
maintaining that idea, we have shaped the first cause into the desired form and can await the
result with cheerful expectancy.

It is here that we find the importance of realizing spirit's independence of time and space.
An ideal, as such, cannot be formed in the future. It must either be formed here and now or
not be formed at all; and it is for this reason that every teacher, who has ever spoken with
due knowledge of the subject, has impressed upon his followers the necessity of picturing to
themselves the fulfilment of their desires as already accomplished on the spiritual plane,
as the indispensable condition of fulfilment in the visible and concrete.

When this is properly understood, any anxious thought as to the means to be employed in the
accomplishment of our purposes is seen to be quite unnecessary. If the end is already secured,
then it follows that all the steps leading to it are secured also. The means will pass into
the smaller circle of our conscious activities day by day in due order, and then we have to
work upon them, not with fear, doubt, or feverish excitement, but calmly and joyously, because
we know that the end is already secured, and that our reasonable use of such means as present
themselves in the desired direction is, only one portion of a much larger co-ordinated movement,
the final result of which admits of no doubt. Mental Science does not offer a premium to idleness,
but it takes, all work out of the region of anxiety and toil by assuring the worker of the
success of his labour, if not in the precise form he anticipated, then in some other still
better suited to his requirements. But suppose, when we reach a point where some momentous
decision has to be made, we happen to decide wrongly? On the hypothesis that the end is already
secured you cannot decide wrongly. Your right decision is as much one of the necessary steps
in the accomplishment of the end as any of the other conditions leading up to it, and therefore,
while being careful to avoid rash action, we may make sure that the same Law which is controlling
the rest of the circumstances in the right direction will influence our judgment in that direction
also. To get good results we must properly understand our relation to the great impersonal
power we are using. It is intelligent and we are intelligent, and the two intelligences must
co-operate. We must not fly in the face of the Law by expecting it to do for us what it can
only do through us; and we must therefore use our intelligence with the knowledge that it is
acting as the instrument of a greater intelligence; and because we have this knowledge we may,
and should, cease from all anxiety as to the final result. In actual practice we must first
form the ideal conception of our object with the definite intention of impressing it upon the
universal mind--it is this intention which takes such thought out of the region of mere casual
fancies--and then affirm that our knowledge of the Law is sufficient reason for a calm expectation
of a corresponding result, and that therefore all necessary conditions will come to us in due
order. We can then turn to the affairs of our daily life with the calm assurance that the initial
conditions are either there already or will soon come into view. If we do not at once see them,
let us rest content with the knowledge that the spiritual prototype is already in existence
and wait till some circumstance pointing in the desired direction begins to show itself. It
may be a very small circumstance, but it is the direction and not the magnitude which is to
be taken into consideration. As soon as we see it we should regard it as the first sprouting
of the seed we have sown in the Absolute, and do calmly, and without excitement, whatever the
circumstances may seem to require, and then later on we shall see that this doing will in turn
lead to further circumstances in the same direction until we find ourselves conducted step
by step to the accomplishment of our object. In this way the understanding of the great principle
of the Law of Supply will, by repeated experiences, deliver us more and more completely out
of the region of anxious thought and toilsome labour and bring us into a new world where the
useful employment of all our powers, whether mental or physical, will only be an unfolding
of our individuality upon the lines of its own nature, and therefore a perpetual source of
health and happiness; a sufficient inducement, surely, to the careful study of the laws governing
the relation between the individual and the Universal Mind.

X.

INTUITION.

We have seen that the subjective mind is amenable to suggestion by the objective mind; but
there is also an action of the subjective mind upon the objective. The individual's subjective
mind is his own innermost self, and its first care is the maintenance of the individuality
of which it is the foundation; and since it is pure spirit it has its continual existence in
that plane of being where all things subsist in the universal here and the everlasting now,
and consequently can, inform the lower mind of things removed from its ken either by distance
or futurity. As the absence of the conditions of time and space must logically concentrate
all things into a present focus, we can assign no limit to the subjective mind's power of perception,
and therefore the question arises, why does it not keep the objective mind continually informed
on all points? And the answer is that it would do so if the objective mind were sufficiently
trained to recognize the indications given, and to effect this training is one of the purposes
of Mental Science. When once we recognize the position of the subjective mind as the supporter
of the whole individuality we cannot doubt that much of what we take to be the spontaneous
movement of the objective mind has its origin in the subjective mind prompting the objective
mind in the right direction without our being consciously aware of it. But at times when the
urgency of the case seems to demand it, or when, for some reason yet unknown, the objective
mind is for a while more closely en rapport with the subjective mind, the interior voice is
heard strongly and persistently; and when this is the case we do well to pay heed to it. Want
of space forbids me to give examples, but doubtless such will not be wanting in the reader's
experience.

The importance of understanding and following the intuition cannot be exaggerated, but I candidly
admit the great practical difficulty of keeping the happy mean between the disregard of the
interior voice and allowing ourselves to be run away with by groundless fancies. The best guide
is the knowledge that comes of personal experience which gradually leads to the acquisition
of a sort of inward sense of touch that enables us to distinguish the true from the false,
and which appears to grow with the sincere desire for truth and with the recognition of the
spirit as its source. The only general principles the writer can deduce from his own experience
are that when, in spite of all appearances pointing in the direction of a certain line of conduct,
there is still a persistent feeling that it should not be followed, in the majority of instances
it will be found that the argument of the objective mind, however correct on the facts objectively
known, was deficient from ignorance of facts which could not be objectively known at the time,
but which were known to the intuitive faculty. Another principle is that our very first impression
of feeling on any subject is generally correct. Before the objective mind has begun to argue
on the subject it is like the surface of a smooth lake which clearly reflects the light from
above; but as soon as it begins to argue from outside appearances these also throw their reflections
upon its surface, so that the original image becomes blurred and is no longer recognizable.
This first conception is very speedily lost, and it should therefore be carefully observed
and registered in the memory with a view to testing the various arguments which will subsequently
arise on the objective plane. It is however impossible to reduce so interior an action as that
of the intuition to the form of hard and fast rules, and beyond carefully noting particular
cases as they occur, probably the best plan for the student will be to include the whole subject
of intuition in the general principle of the Law of Attraction, especially if he sees how this
law interacts with that personal quality of universal spirit of which we have already spoken.

XI.

HEALING.

The subject of healing has been elaborately treated by many writers and fully deserves all
the attention that has been given to it, but the object of these lectures is rather to ground
the student in those general principles on which all conscious use of the creative power of
thought is based, than to lay down formal rules for specific applications of it. I will therefore
examine the broad principles which appear to be common to the various methods of mental healing
which are in use, each of which derives its efficacy, not from the peculiarity of the method,
but from it being such a method as allows the higher laws of Nature to come into play. Now
the principle universally laid down by all mental healers, in whatever various terms they may
explain it, is that the basis of all healing is a change in belief. The sequence from which
this results is as follows:--the subjective mind is the creative faculty within us, and creates
whatever the objective mind impresses upon it; the objective mind, or intellect, impresses
its thought upon it; the thought is the expression of the belief; hence whatever the subjective
mind creates is the reproduction externally of our beliefs. Accordingly our whole object is
to change our beliefs, and we cannot do this without some solid ground of conviction of the
falsity of our old beliefs and of the truth of our new ones, and this ground we find in that
law of causation which I have endeavoured to explain. The wrong belief which externalizes as
sickness is the belief that some secondary cause, which is really only a condition, is a primary
cause. The knowledge of the law shows that there is only one primary cause, and this is the
factor which in our own individuality we call subjective or sub-conscious mind. For this reason
I have insisted on the difference between placing an idea in the sub-conscious mind, that is,
on the plane of the absolute and without reference to time and space, and placing the same
idea in the conscious intellectual mind which only perceives things as related to time and
space. Now the only conception you can have of yourself in the absolute, or unconditioned,
is as purely living Spirit, not hampered by conditions of any sort, and therefore not subject
to illness; and when this idea is firmly impressed on the sub-conscious mind, it will externalize
it. The reason why this process is not always successful at the first attempt is that all our
life we have been holding the false belief in sickness as a substantial entity in itself and
thus being a primary cause, instead of being merely a negative condition resulting from the
obsence of a primary cause; and a belief which has become ingrained from childhood cannot be
eradicated at a moment's notice. We often find, therefore, that for some time after a treatment
there is an improvement in the patient's health, and then the old symptoms return. This is
because the new belief in his own creative faculty has not yet had time to penetrate down to
the innermost depths of the subconscious mind, but has only partially entered it. Each succeeding
treatment strengthens the sub-conscious mind in its hold of the new belief until at last a
permanent cure is effected. This is the method of self-treatment based on the patient's own
knowledge of the law of his being.

But "there is not in all men this knowledge," or at any rate not such a full recognition of
it as will enable them to give successful treatment to themselves, and in these cases the intervention
of the healer becomes necessary. The only difference between the healer and the patient is
that the healer has learnt how to control the less self-conscious modes of the spirit by the
more self-conscious mode, while the patient has not yet attained to this knowledge; and what
the healer does is to substitute his own objective or conscious mentality, which is will joined
to intellect, for that of the patient, and in this way to find entrance to his sub-conscious
mind and impress upon it the suggestion of perfect health.

The question then arises, how can the healer substitute his own conscious mind for that of
the patient? and the answer shows the practical application of those very abstract principles
which I have laid down in the earlier sections. Our ordinary conception of ourselves is that
of an individual personality which ends where another personality begins, in other words that
the two personalities are entirely separate. This is an error. There is no such hard and fast
line of demarcation between personalities, and the boundaries between one and another can be
increased or reduced in rigidity according to will, in fact they may be temporarily removed
so completely that, for the time being, the two personalities become merged into one. Now the
action which takes place between healer and patient depends on this principle. The patient
is asked by the healer to put himself in a receptive mental attitude, which means that he is
to exercise his volition for the purpose of removing the barrier of his own objective personality
and thus affording entrance to the mental power of the healer. On his side also the healer
does the same thing, only with this difference, that while the patient withdraws the barrier
on his side with the intention of admitting a flowing-in, the healer does so with the intention
of allowing a flowing-out: and thus by the joint action of the two minds the barriers of both
personalities are removed and the direction of the flow of volition is determined, that is
to say, it flows from the healer as actively willing to give, towards the patient as passively
willing to receive, according to the universal law of Nature that the flow must always be from
the plenum to the vacuum. This mutual removal of the external mental barrier between healer
and patient is what is termed establishing a rapport between them, and here we find one most
valuable practical application of the principle laid down earlier in this book, that pure spirit
is present in its entirety at every point simultaneously. It is for this reason that as soon
as the healer realizes that the barriers of external personality between himself and his patient
have been removed, he can then speak to the sub-conscious mind of the patient as though it
were his own, for both being pure spirit the thought of their identity makes them identical,
and both are concentrated into a single entity at a single point upon which the conscious mind
of the healer can be brought to bear, according to the universal principle of the control of
the subjective mind by the objective mind through suggestion. It is for this reason I have
insisted on the distinction between pure spirit, or spirit conceived of apart from extension
in any matrix and the conception of it as so extended. If we concentrate our mind upon the
diseased condition of the patient we are thinking of him as a separate personality, and are
not fixing our mind upon that conception of him as pure spirit which will afford us effectual
entry to his springs of being. We must therefore withdraw our thought from the contemplation
of symptoms, and indeed from his corporeal personality altogether, and must think of him as
a purely spiritual individuality, and as such entirely free from subjection to any conditions,
and consequently as voluntarily externalizing the conditions most expressive of the vitality
and intelligence which pure spirit is. Thinking of him thus, we then make mental affirmation
that he shall build up outwardly the correspondence of that perfect vitality which he knows
himself to be inwardly; and this suggestion being impressed by the healer's conscious thought,
while the patient's conscious thought is at the same time impressing the fact that he is receiving
the active thought of the healer, the result is that the patient's sub-conscious mind becomes
thoroughly imbued with the recognition of its own life-giving power, and according to the recognized
law of subjective mentality proceeds to work out this suggestion into external manifestation,
and thus health is substituted for sickness.

It must be understood that the purpose of the process here described is to strengthen the subject's
individuality, not to dominate it. To use it for domination is inversion, bringing its appropriate
penalty to the operator.

In this description I have contemplated the case where the patient is consciously co-operating
with the healer, and it is in order to obtain this co-operation that the mental healer usually
makes a point of instructing the patient in the broad principles of Mental Science, if he is
not already acquainted with them. But this is not always advisable or possible. Sometimes the
statement of principles opposed to existing prejudices arouses opposition, and any active antagonism
on the patient's part must tend to intensify the barrier of conscious personality which it
is the healer's first object to remove. In these cases nothing is so effective as absent treatment.
If the student has grasped all that has been said on the subject of spirit and matter, he will
see that in mental treatment time and space count for nothing, because the whole action takes
place on a plane where these conditions do not obtain; and it is therefore quite immaterial
whether the patient be in the immediate presence of the healer or in a distant country. Under
these circumstances it is found by experience that one of the most effectual modes of mental
healing is by treatment during sleep, because then the patient's whole system is naturally
in a state of relaxation which prevents him offering any conscious opposition to the treatment.
And by the same rule the healer also is able to treat even more effectively during his own
sleep than while waking. Before going to sleep he firmly impresses on his subjective mind that
it is to convey curative suggestion to the subjective mind of the patient, and then, by the
general principles of the relation between subjective and objective mind this suggestion is
carried out during all the hours that the conscious individuality is wrapped in repose. This
method is applicable to young children to whom the principles of the science cannot be explained;
and also to persons at a distance: and indeed the only advantage gained by the personal meeting
of the patient and healer is in the instruction that can be orally given, or when the patient
is at that early stage of knowledge where the healer's visible presence conveys the suggestion
that something is then being done which could not be done in his absence; otherwise the presence
or absence of the patient are matters perfectly indifferent. The student must always recollect
that the sub- conscious mind does not have to work through the intellect or conscious mind
to produce its curative effects. It is part of the all-pervading creative force of Nature,
while the intellect is not creative but distributive.

From mental healing it is but a step to telepathy, clairvoyance and other, kindred manifestations
of transcendental power which, are from time to time exhibited by the subjective entity and
which follow laws as accurate as those which govern what we are accustomed to consider our
more normal faculties; but these subjects do not properly fall within the scope of a book whose
purpose is to lay down the broad principles which underlie all spiritual phenomena. Until these
are clearly understood the student cannot profitably attempt the detailed study of the more
interior powers; for to do so without a firm foundation of knowledge and some experience in
its practical application would only be to expose himself to unknown dangers, and would be
contrary to the scientific principle that the advance into the unknown can only be made from
the standpoint of the known, otherwise we only come into a confused region of guess-work without
any clearly defined principles for our guidance.

XII.

