WITHIN THE TEMPLE OF ISIS.

BY

BELLE M. WAGNER.

Denver, Colorado: ASTRO-PHILOSOPHICAL PUBLISHING CO., 1899.

COPYRIGHT, 1899, BY HENRY WAGNER, M.D.

DEDICATION.

TO MY HUSBAND,

Henry Wagner, M.D.,

IN ACKNOWLEDGEMENT OF HIS TRUE WORTH AS A WARRIOR IN THE CAUSE OF TRUTH, AND HIS DEVOTION TO
THE BROTHERHOOD AND SISTERHOOD OF MAN, AND THE FATHERHOOD AND MOTHERHOOD OF GOD, I DEDICATE
THIS BOOK.

BY THE AUTHORESS.

PUBLISHER'S PREFACE.

We are safe in saying that "Within The Temple of Isis" is unique and stands alone. There is
no other book in print like it, and if Solomon of old had not said, "There is nothing new under
the sun," we would be inclined to contradict him.

"Within the Temple of Isis" God's word was law as interpreted by his Hierophants; their oneness
with the fountain of Being made them conscious of Nature's secret operations, and enabled them,
as it does the wise ones of to-day, to enter the Temple of Isis and observe the hidden mysteries
concealed behind the veil.

Purity of motive and sincerity of purpose brought its own reward to them of old as it does
to those of to-day who purify themselves before seeking for the knowledge and wisdom hidden
within the "Holy of Holies"--"The Temple of Isis."

Isis means Mother of all, while Osiris means Father of all.

The Temple of Two Truths as matter and spirit must be realized within.

The Polar Opposites are those of sex dually expressed as two poles of one law or principle
as taught by Hermetic Philosophy before the law of polarization of spirit into matter, and
matter back into spirit, can be understood.

The Alchemist and the Astrologer, alike, possess this wisdom, and it was this knowledge that
made the Priests Kings of Egypt, so justly famous as Magicians or Wise Men.

They still exist in spirit realms and can transmit to this plane of earth their wisdom, that
would make earth a veritable paradise if only the race could be made to realize its magical powers.

Scientific inventions of great moment to the race are thus projected to the earth, and spiritual
Adepts in occult laws will again revive the "Wisdom Religion" upon earth in all its beauty
and grandeur as the western race becomes fitted intellectually and spiritually to receive it.

Nature ever repeats herself in cycles of time on the spiritual and mental, as well as the physical
planes of life.

End, there is none. Time and eternity are the ever-present Now, so far as the spirit is concerned.
Therefore, the readers of this strange occult book will some day realize its truths as realities
of natural law on the spiritual planes of life. It is a clear, practical statement of Soul
Marriage and of Soul Transfer from one earthly temple to that of another.

Nature's laws are ever the same; therefore, the same experiences herein narrated are applicable
to Neophytes seeking soul initiation to-day as they were in the days of The Temple of Isis,
and if the veil of Isis could be raised for one single moment the world would be startled by
the mysterious revelations disclosed.

To the Seers and the Occult Initiates alike, this book will appeal with magical force. Its
truths are those of the soul and spirit, and can await the reader's soul development for verification.

Truth needs no apology; therefore, none will be offered as an excuse for this publication.
It is our desire that our readers may some day know for themselves that Truth is indeed stranger
than Fiction.

INTRODUCTION.

In presenting this little volume to our readers we ask them to accept it, not as fiction, but
as divine truth as to the laws herein revealed.

Not a statement is made that is not possible to the divine will of man. Although it can not
be proven to your outward knowledge, do not reject and declare it is not true.

History will teach you there actually existed a "Temple of Isis," and the translations thereof,
although many of them are very incorrect, of the wonderful magic therein performed, lead one
to think there was some Wisdom issued from that Temple that is yet beyond the human family,
as a whole, to understand.

"The Temple of Isis" exists no more in external form, and the Hierophants of that Temple have
passed from this to the spiritual planes above. But, need we think by that, the blind forces
of Nature can no more be controlled? The forces are just the same to-day, but man's mind fails
to grasp the truth that history repeats itself.

Mighty Hierophants are upon the earth to-day, in embryo, and when the time comes that points
favorably for active spiritual work on the Western Continent, they will be called forth and
Egypt will not be ashamed of her true children nor their works.

The Wisdom Religion of Egypt still exists and we can contact that Wisdom by the development
of our souls. Even do the Wise Men of the East, that was, exert their spiritual influence upon
us to-day if we but knew it.

The trouble lies with us not with them. They will never conceal it from the honest soul truly
seeking for Light, Life and Love.

Follow us carefully to the end, without prejudice, and when you have finished, if you still
think it fiction, strive to prove its falsity and stop not until you have reached that stage
of soul unfoldment that will enable you to occupy that plane whereby you can stand beside the
great Hierophants of "The Temple of Isis."

THE AUTHORESS.

WITHIN THE TEMPLE OF ISIS.

CHAPTER I.

THE REVELATION OF THE ASTROLOGER.

Although the hour was very late, near midnight, the Priestess had just retired to her apartments
for repose.

The Rites of the day had been extremely long and fatiguing, as they always were for a Priestess
of Isis attendant upon the burial service of one in high rank; and a great nobleman of the
land, as well as a near relative of the Priestess herself, had been buried that day.

Thus personal sorrow had mingled with and added weight to the impressive and solemn grandeur
of the occasion, yet, strangely enough her mind was neither with the events of the day nor
the dead, but her thoughts were resting now where they had wandered many times throughout the
day, namely, to her little handmaid and special attendant, as well as Vestal in the Temple,
Sarthia.

Sarthia, who at the very beginning of the Chants and Litany, had failed in her part and had,
with such a pitiable moan and beseeching glance at her, been hastily withdrawn from the assembly
and assisted to the private courts.

Poor child, she thought, the strain upon her emotions, the solemn occasion, was too great for
her in view of the crisis, which all unknown to her, must be now impending. However, upon learning
from an attendant that the young girl was resting quietly and apparently not ill, she had not
herself personally visited her, but concluded to wait until morning.

Once, twice, thrice, just as the Priestess had, as it were, passed the border-land of sleep
the pale face, with its pleading eyes and plaintive cry, had started her back to vivid consciousness.

"Ah! this will never do," she said, springing to her feet. "Something is indeed wrong," and
taking up her mantle she glided swiftly through the corridors, and a few moments later was
bending over the silent and motionless form of Sarthia.

Noiseless as had been the approach of the Priestess some interior vibration had informed Sarthia
of her coming and, with a quivering and swift movement, she sprang from her couch and threw
herself impulsively into the arms of the Priestess.

"Ah! sweet Mother, well beloved of our blessed and divine Isis, hear me and help me," said
the girl, in a whisper, tense and low, so low as only to reach the listening ear of the Priestess.

"Speak child," answered the Priestess, caressingly clasping Sarthia to her bosom with one strong
arm, and with the other making soft, mesmeric passes over her trembling body.

"Ah! thank you, sweet Mother; this is so good and kind of you to come to me to-night. I have
suffered so all day from your thought; you have been disappointed in your Sarthia and with
reason, too. A Vestal, who all but faints at the sight of death, is not made of the stuff required
in the Temple Service. But, believe me, dear Priestess, the trouble is far deeper than appears
upon the surface. The Ritual this morning but furnished the occasion or, rather, hastened some
crisis that was already near at hand. For some time now I am haunted by most potent premonitions
of a violent death. Night after night, dark apparitions hang around my bed, and only last night
I awoke to find the Bird of Nu, the Owl, from out the inner Sanctuary of the Temple, perched
upon my pillow and shaking his head and croaking at me most mournfully."

"What!" exclaimed the Priestess. "The Bird of Nu. Ah! this is indeed very serious. The matter
must be investigated at once. But, my child, if all these portents prove true, do you fear
death? Have all our teachings been in vain? Have you made so little progress in knowledge and
the philosophy of existence as to be overcome by dark shadows and grow faint in the presence
of the sentiment and show of an external ceremony? The pageantry, which appeals so overwhelmingly
to the emotions of the outside world, is the necessary means of teaching the people these awful
and stupendous mysteries of life and death. But the Initiate should be sustained by actual
experiences within these hidden realms and possess a knowledge of their inner nature which
places him on a plane far above the reach of Fear; besides being endowed with that burning
love for wisdom which calmly discerns good in evil, and immortal life in the shadow, called
death. Do not think I am chiding you, my child. I am only seeking to recall my real Sarthia,
who is incapable of Fear, back to this physical expression called body.

"There, already the bright soul shines again with its usual clear light. Hold it firmly and
do not let it flicker so again, and now I must leave you to seek an interview with the chief
of the Astrologers. The record and Horoscope of your birth must be carefully looked up, and
the meaning of these portents determined. Good-night, my child."

With a kiss, fond and maternal, the Priestess withdrew. She proceeded leisurely and thoughtfully
toward a distant part of the Temple, having first dispatched a messenger before her to announce
her coming, seeking an audience, well knowing that at this now early hour of morning the Astrologer
Priests would all be in the midst of their busiest studies, calculations and most profound
observations.

But Sarthia, when left alone, although marvelously calmed and comforted by the tender presence
and lofty words of her idolized Priestess could not compose herself to sleep. Instead, she
soon floated into a state of restful contemplation, drifting from one topic to another, until
suddenly she found herself confronted by a most intensely vivid and startling vision. "Can
it be?" Yes, true enough, there sat the venerable Astrologer holding in his hand before him,
her chart of birth. Beside him, engaged in completing the necessary calculations, sat the scribe
and youthful Astrologer Priest, Hermo. There was a strange pallor over his face and a compression
of the lips which betrayed unusual emotion. The Priestess was partially facing them, composed,
yet with a serious thoughtfulness of mien.

At last, Hermo, looking up, said, "The directions for the present year of life are made out,
and the fatal arc carefully computed, Venerated Master," and handed his work to the Astrologer
who took it, studied a moment briefly, and turned to the Priestess.

"What is the result, Venerated Father?" she asked gently.

The Astrologer slowly shook his head and replied impressively, "According to all the laws of
our Science, and you know how true they are, the physical organism of Sarthia can not survive
this present cycle of yonder fair Goddess of the night." And, with a majestic move, he pushed
aside a curtain, revealing the Moon now low in the west.

"So short a time," said the Priestess. "To-morrow night will be the full, and must we indeed
lose our Sarthia before another new Moon? What is the nature of these evil influences?"

"The planets, in their configurations, indicate sudden and violent dissolution," was the reply.

"Ah, now," said Sarthia to herself resolutely, at this point turning away from the vision,
"now I understand it all," and with a feeling of amaze at her newly-attained clairvoyance she
fell into a deep and refreshing sleep.

CHAPTER II.

IN THE PRESENCE OF THE HIEROPHANT.

With the first waking moments a sharp pang recalled to Sarthia the vision and its revealments
of the previous night. But her mind had fully recovered its philosophic tone and she proceeded
about her customary routine of duties, calm and firm, and, as is often the case, in view of
some inevitable and stupendous catastrophy close at hand, life only seemed larger, more intensely
real. So, when later in the day she received summons to meet the great Hierophant and High
Priest, what, at any other time, would have seemed a most momentous event, appeared now only
in the light of the expected and necessary.

As she was ushered into the presence of the Holy Father the whole apartment seemed pervaded
by an atmosphere of genial warmth and electrical-giving life which somehow emanated from the
inner nature of the Priest himself, radiating also spiritual and mental, as well as physical force.

For some moments the Hierophant regarded the young Vestal in silence, but Sarthia was conscious
that he was reading her inmost thought and motive like an open book, even down to her vision
of the Astrologer and his fatal announcement regarding her life.

"My child," he said at length, "are you ready for the great change now already at hand?"

"No, Father, not ready but resigned to what seems to be the inevitable decrees of the planets
that rule my physical destiny."

"Thou hast well said thou art not ready. Your life has yet but only begun for you. Its experiences,
its many lessons and duties, are all unlearnt and you would pass to the spirit world immatured.
Your young soul, like fruit plucked from the tree too soon, would ripen slowly, losing many
of its flavors and never attaining certain of its best and highest qualities, for as you well
know, progress in the next stage of existence depends upon the attainments in this.

"Thou art not ready, yet say you are willing to bow to the inevitable. This is wise, still
have you not heard it said many times that man is the arbiter of his own destiny and that the
soul was the inheritor of God-like powers by which it could rise to the plane whereby it ruled,
instead of obeying the blind or planetary forces of Nature?"

"True, O Venerated Father, I have indeed heard all this, but I am very ignorant. Are there
such possibilities for my soul?" and somehow imperceptibly hope began to dawn within her heart
and quicken the life forces.

"Ruling the blind forces of Nature is very like ruling the wild beast, although the beast is
much stronger than man and capable of tearing him to pieces, yet man, by forethought, can evade
or trap and chain or otherwise overcome him. So my child, there are ways wherein man, assisted
by his own knowledge, and by the instruction of departed spirits; aye, by the immortal Gods
themselves, can evade even the malefic planets in their devastating course.

"To my clairvoyant vision, as I now at this moment look at you, every minute atom of your physical
organism is in the subtle process of depolarization from unity toward chaos and disintegration.
You are not yourself conscious of this condition only as it has been revealed to you, for your
soul is so alive that it has become almost unconscious of its physical expression and for this
very reason the shock of dissolution would be all the greater when it did come; for example,
witness your unexpected collapse yesterday morning. Ah! sudden death is a most deplorable calamity,
and your pitiable state of mind was but a foretaste of what would be the state of your soul
for many long years, if you had died then, and will yet be, to a less extent now, unless this
swift-coming blow can be evaded.

"However, in case the worst comes to worst, you have about ten days more of this external life
and under our special care and preparation you can live years of experience in hours of physical
time, and your soul thus equipped may courageously enter upon its journey to the spirit world.
Rest assured, my child, everything possible shall be done for you."

"Ah, thank you; thank you, kind and good Father," exclaimed Sarthia, casting herself at the
feet of the Hierophant and, with tears streaming from her eyes, kissing the hem of his robe.

"But, truly life is sweet, especially to the young, is it not, my child?" said the Priest,
gently raising Sarthia to his side and holding her trembling form in a firm clasp. "Happily,
there is an alternative which we have to offer for your most careful consideration and decision.

"Listen now, and give me your closest attention. Know you the young Princess Nu-nah?" Sarthia
bowed assent.

"For now these many weeks she lies in a semi-conscious condition, the soul hovering about its
earthly temple uncertain whether to go or stay. In some respects her condition corresponds
with your own, only that with you, as dissolution approaches, your soul grows brighter and
more active, while hers becomes more and more latent; this result being largely the difference
of environment--a contrast of the soul unfoldment possible in Temple life and that amid the
distractions of the outside world.

"To-night, the night of the full Moon, the Princess Nu-nah will be brought to the Temple and
the Rites performed initiatory to the soul's great change. You, also, my child, must bear her
company. The same journey lies before you both and you can go hand in hand through the dark
valley of the shadow of death.

"And now, right here is a point where all will depend upon your decision. It is possible for
us, by aid of the arts of Magic known to us, to bring your two souls in such magnetic rapport
that at a certain point the vibrations of the two will, for a single instant of time, be in
unison. At that momentous instant the polarity of the two souls can be interchanged so that
the subsequent vibrations of your soul will draw you toward Nu-nah's body, while Nu-nah's soul
will be drawn toward your organism, and thus will be accomplished the first great step in the
drama.

"This great change will hasten the physical crisis in each organism. But your soul, while connected
with Nu-nah's body, can easily overcome the malefic planetary influences which would destroy
it if she were there; while her soul in your body renders nil, by its very non-resistance,
the influences which would be absolutely fatal were you still there when the evil descends.
And thus do you evade the blind forces of Nature. Two lives are spared for the duties and experiences
of this world. This will be the second part of the drama, and now comes the third and last
point to consider, the Result.

"In just the proportion as this is a most stupendous change in your soul life, so indeed, perhaps,
even appalling to your present comprehension, will be the effect.

"After your soul has once entered its new temple it will be obliged to remain there polarized
by the new forces set in operation while passing the crisis. Then, Sarthia, our bright and
well-beloved Vestal, will henceforth be known as Princess Nu-nah, and will be obliged for a
time to live the life and perform the duties of the Princess.

"On the other hand, the Princess Nu-nah will put on the external body of our Vestal Sarthia
and enter upon the life of the Temple Service, but with this difference; that while this change
is consciously made by you, Nu-nah will probably never know it until she passes finally to
the spirit world. Her past life has already faded from memory while consciousness of the new
life will dawn gradually as upon an infant, and therefore, since she can not be consulted in
the matter, the decision rests solely with you.

"To-night, at midnight, your answer will be required. Until then, fare thee well, and God be
with you."

CHAPTER III.

THE MIDNIGHT OF THE FULL MOON.

It yet lacked several hours of the fateful midnight, as Sarthia, her body perfumed and annointed,
according to the prescribed rites, was borne by faithful attendants from the bath into the
courts of the Sanctuary and placed upon a couch beside another, upon which already rested the
unconscious form of the lovely Princess Nu-nah.

But Sarthia, although to an external, observer as unconscious as the fair Nu-nah, was never
more intensely awake, every atom of her being and soul alert to all transpiring about her and
conveyed to her through her marvelous new gifts of clairvoyance and clairaudience.

Never, with the external eye, had she seen more vividly the vista upon vista of columns and
corridors winding in and about the Sanctuary, now illuminated by the full-orbed Queen of the
Night, which she could see shining through a certain archway, and her heart thrilled as she
counted the number of archways fair Luna must pass until, at midnight, she would shine down
through the one just above her.

Already had begun the weird chants, interspersed with solos of exquisite harmonies of stringed
and wind instruments--responses and echoes.

Incense burned and perfumes arose and blended in an indescribable union with melody and motion,
while as the fragrant vapors from the burning censers wafted and wreathed about the colonnades
and porticoes, Spirit forms added their presence to the sublime scene, bringing with them flowers,
aromas and harmonies from the divine abodes of the very Gods themselves.

Oblivious of the passage of time, while intently absorbed in every minutest detail of the wonders
passing about her, Sarthia was almost becoming drowsy, when suddenly, the Moon looked in upon
her, fast nearing the final archway, and yet she was undecided. She turned and gazed upon her
companion, mentally asking, "Can I become Nu-nah?"

Nu-nah was very beautiful and a Princess. But Sarthia was also beautiful and the blood in her
veins was royal, though of a different branch from the present ruling House.

Nu-nah was cold and haughty, accustomed to rule and be obeyed.

Sarthia was humble externally, a Vestal of the Temple, but in her mind and soul as imperious
as a Queen of the realm of Heaven. Passionately devoted to the pursuit of Wisdom and the possibilities
of obtaining knowledge, even Magic was open to her, in the Temple Service. Could she leave
her Temple home, her opportunities for growth, her idolized Priestess, to go into the environments
of Nu-nah?

The thought seemed to her worse than death itself. "Every one has to die," she mused, "and
I may as well die one time as another."

Then another thought came into her mind--Hermo. He had begun to teach her the mysteries of
his science of Astrology. Hermo, for whom she had a pure sisterly regard and who was so proud
of her swift proficiency in his favorite study. And then she recalled the vision of the previous
night when Hermo had shown to her clairvoyant eye his agitation at her impending doom.

"But if I become Nu-nah and Nu-nah becomes Sarthia, Hermo will never know the difference and
thus be spared the pain of loving his young sister. And furthermore, Nu-nah has a lover to
whom she is betrothed and would have married, ere this, but for her lingering malady, the superb
young Prince Rathunor, whom I have never seen."

Ah! here was indeed a most dire complication. Love was a most mysterious and unknown emotion
to her. She might hate Prince Rathunor and "then we would both wish I had died," and she half
laughed to herself at the domestic comedy thus presented to her mind.

At this period, either as a reaction from the light thrown, or lighter thought upon her overwrought
nature, or possibly from some subtle, potent influence emanating from the censer burning near
her, Sarthia lapsed into sudden and most profound unconsciousness.

A few moments later--it seemed to Sarthia as if ages had intervened--she began a fierce struggle
to awake. "Why, how is this?" she thought. She seemed enveloped in a dead wall of some kind.
The brain, the heart, the infinite ramification of nerves in no way responded to her will and
her utmost effort. Almost worn out with the unequal battle it began to dawn upon her that she
was really endeavoring to animate the other body. "Am I becoming Nu-nah?" Yes, in the excitement
of the moment she raised herself upon her couch and, resting upon her elbow, gazed upon the
rigid form of what a moment before had been herself.

But her movement had startled a form beside the couch, some one who had approached, unobserved
by Sarthia, during the interval of unconsciousness.

A young man who seemed to her the most God-like being she had ever beheld and perceiving her
glance, with a low exclamation of joy, sprang toward her, clasped her hand in his, and turning
her face upward, gazed with most passionate tenderness into her eyes.

"My Nu-nah, you will live," he murmured. "Do you know your Rathunor?"

Thrilled to suffocation by the love in his eyes, every atom of her soul vibrating to a new-born
and overwhelming emotion, she felt herself slowly but surely losing control of her new body.
With, however, one supreme effort she pressed the hand holding hers and returning the look
in his eyes she gave one deep, quivering sigh and was gone.

When again she regained consciousness she was within her own body. Rathunor had vanished and
the first slanting rays of the Moon were descending the last aperture.

It was midnight, and she found herself in communication with the Hierophant, who, from a different
portion of the Sanctuary, was seriously regarding her and again reading her inmost thoughts.

A few moments before she had all but decided that she could not be Nu-nah, that death now,
here in this Holy Sanctuary were better far than hundreds of years as a Princess of the realm
of materiality. But, a new factor had now entered her being. A force, more subtle than all
Wisdom,--more potent than life or eternity itself,--had transfused her soul--Love! Love, the
first, the highest, the all-embracing force of the mighty Universe, and with this new love
had been ushered also into being, Jealousy.

"Rathunor loved Nu-nah! Am I not a strange interloper? Was it not worse by my decision to rob
Nu-nah of her lover than to deprive her of continued physical life?"

For, it seemed to her now, that life without love would be more than the agonies of the lowest
hells. Then again, to live with Rathunor as his wife, while he all the time thought her to
be Nu-nah, would be an incessant torture, keener and more intense than if she were chained
by, as a third person, to behold him loving the actual Nu-nah in her own body.

"Holy Father and revered Hierophant," she moaned, "help me, I can not decide."

"My child," came the mental response to her call, "if you could be assured that Rathunor would
love you in Nu-nah's body, would the decision be easy?"

"Aye, indeed, dear Father."

"Then rest assured it will be as you desire. We give you our sacred word that Rathunor will
love you."

Then, raising his arm, as in benediction, he slowly repeated thrice, like an incantation, the
words, "Rest in Peace," and, ere the echoes of his voice had died away, the soul of Sarthia
had left forever its earthly abode and Temple.

CHAPTER IV.

WITHIN THE ADYTUM.

For several days, after floating from her body into the Astral world, Sarthia remained in a
state of profound, dreamless slumber and then gradually passed into a condition of semi-consciousness
with occasional fitful gleams of memory until one day she realized herself in close proximity
to two persons engaged in earnest conversation and became fully aware of the momentous events
that had just transpired and her present disembodied situation. And with a thrill indescribable
she recognized the voice of Rathunor addressing the Hierophant.

"And so, most revered Father, all things are progressing favorably and toward a satisfactory
culmination?" he said.

"Even so, my son," was the reply. "And yet," continued the Prince, "save the one momentary
gleam of recognition, upon the first night of the ceremonies, the soul of the Princess Nu-nah,
to all outward appearance, has left entirely. The body is sustained, apparently, by some magical
process, the nature of which I do not understand."

"True, my son, but that need not disquiet you. The resources of Nature are many and far from
being exhausted. But then, youth is naturally impatient. Did you so deeply love the Princess?"

At this point Sarthia would have withdrawn but she found that her desire to stay chained her
to the spot, and glancing at the Hierophant she realized that her presence was known to him
and that he wished her to remain.

The Prince mused thoughtfully for a few moments before replying and then said with a half sigh,
"You know, O Father, that I myself did not particularly desire that marriage. From my earliest
childhood I have been fond of my cousin and playfellow. As she matured I have admired, with
family pride, her perfect beauty of form, her haughty spirit and her ability to rule. And yet,
as you, who can so easily read the innermost secrets of the heart, must know I have not been
able to discern the happiness for myself in this union that my soul would crave, or that you
led me to expect in wedded love. If my ambition irresistibly impelled me to fill the external
destinies of mankind, to become a monarch of unsurpassed power and magnificence, then would
Nu-nah be the royal consort absolutely adapted for such pride and pomp. But, you know, O Father,
all these things are as empty bubbles and child toys to one aspiring to become a Priest King,
to him who hungers and thirsts, day and night for wisdom, for knowledge of the more inner secrets
of Nature, guarded so jealously by the Priesthood but revealed by the very Gods themselves
to those worthy to know and fit to use and assist in carrying out the plans and orderly workings
of the very Universe itself.

"In form and feature Nu-nah's image meets my highest ideal, but when I would speak of the thoughts
and ambitions upon which my soul dwells, then her cold look of incomprehension appalls me with
the vast difference in our natures. Her thoughts can never penetrate the realm wherein my life-forces
are all centered. Never have I experienced from her the response my love would crave."

"Have you then never at any time felt that Nu-nah's love for you could be trained and in time
evolved to the plane whereby she would respond to you?"

