The introduction of steel vice whalebone, was opposed by the trade and the public in general,
like many other great improvements; and it required several years in order to convince purchasers
that steel would not only last much longer than whalebone, but would not be so liable to break,
provided it was properly made and tempered. The misfortune was that, at the outset, a great
number of inferior articles were introduced, and consequently the public naturally lost confidence,
and it demanded great exertions on the part of the more respectable members of the trade, ere
the merits of the new invention were recognised. At present, it is generally allowed that a
good steel-rib Umbrella can be as easily procured as a carefully tempered razor or sword.

A Swiss watch-spring maker, named Sanguinede, had discovered a secret of tempering steel which
gave it great strength, and he had made some, very light umbrellas, but they were immensely
dear. On his death the secret died with him, and Mr. Fox set to work to discover a method which
should combine strength and lightness.

Mr. Fox's Paragon frame, simple in its construction, half the weight of whalebone, but equally
strong, is admitted to be the greatest improvement yet introduced in the manufacture of an
Umbrella. The ribs are made in the form of a trough with flat sides, by which shape the greatest
amount of strength is obtained. The same principle, as is well known, has been successfully
applied in the construction of the Great Tubular Bridge over the Menai Straits, from which
Mr. Fox took the idea.

The weight of the Umbrella having been thus reduced, the next question was, whether some amendment
could not be made in the covering material. For a long time, Umbrellas were only covered with
two materials--silk and cotton, and the want of some substance, which would resist the greater
friction and consequent wear than an Umbrella invariably undergoes, formed a subject of anxious
attention to the writer of this little book. Several materials were tried without success,
until a fabric called Alpaca, made of the wool of the Chilian and Peruvian sheep, presented
itself, and for this a patent was immediately taken out. Of its merits it becomes us not to
speak, but we may be permitted to quote the following remarks from the Grand Jury Report of
the Great Exhibition of 1851:--

"SANGSTER, WILLIAM AND JOHN. Prize Medal for Silk Parasols and Umbrellas of excellent quality,
'and for their application of Alpaca cloth to the coverings of Parasols and Umbrellas."

To the above flattering testimonial the following remarks were appended:--

"Alpaca cloth is made of undyed wool of the Peruvian and Chili sheep, and it is therefore is
not liable to fade, nor is it acted upon by salt water; hence Alpaca Parasols and Umbrellas
are much used at watering-places.

"The demand for the Paragon Umbrella is so great, that the patentee is able to supply them
at a price not much exceeding the ordinary sorts. The frames are guaranteed for two years,
but in consequence of the superior quality of the article, the number found to require repair
is much less than the average of other kinds. In the course of the two years succeeding their
introduction, upwards of 50,000 Paragon Umbrellas mere sold.

"Nor was the progress of the Alpaca Umbrella less cheering. Though the material is in some
respects inferior to silk, it has been found to wear so much longer, and to cost so much less,
that its use is now becoming general among that numerous class with whom economy and an Umbrella
are equally indispensable. The sale of Alpaca Umbrellas, in the year 1854, amounted to upwards
of 45,000."

Since this time W. & J. S. have sold, under their patent, Umbrellas to the number of nearly
four millions.

