" John, I'll give you a couple of two-bit pieces if you'll get me a bite of something," I persist.
John's small, black eyes twinkle at the suggestion of two-bit pieces, and his expressive countenance
assumes a commerical air as, with a ludicrous change of front, he replies:

" Wha'.  You gib me flore bittee, me gib you bitee eatee.  " "That's what I said, John; and
please be as lively as possible about it."

" All li; you gib me flore bittee me fly you Melican plan-cae." " Yes, pancakes will do.  Go
ahead!"

Visions of pancakes and molasses flit before my hunger-distorted vision as I sit outside until
he gets them ready.  In ten minutes John calls me in.  On a tin plate, that looks as if it
has just been rescued from a barrel of soap-grease, reposes a shapeless mass of substance resembling
putty-it is the " "they won't. but if they should i have my gun, haven't I, and i'll see them of they
see me. Go before, i tell you. We've lost too already time much. Think towards that mob and Barbara.
You've got to go, Holmes."

The engineer turned on his horse. 
It is simply a chunk of tenacious dough, made of flour and water only, and soaked for a few
minutes in warm grease.  I call for molasses; he doesn't know what it is.  I inquire for syrup,
thinking he may recognize my want by that name.  He brings a jar of thin Chinese catsup, that
tastes something like Limburger cheese smells.  I immediately beg of him to take it where its
presumably benign influence will fail to reach me.  He produces some excellent cold tea, however,
by the aid of which I manage to "bolt" a portion of the "plan-cae." One doesn't look for a
very elegant spread for fifty cents in the Sage-brush State; but this "Melican plan-cae" is
the worst fifty-cent meal I ever heard of.

To-night I stay in Winnemucca, the county seat of Humboldt County, and quite a lively little
town of 1,200 inhabitants.  "What'll yer have." is the first word on entering the hotel, and
"Won't yer take a bottle of whiskey along." is the last word on leaving it next morning.  There
are Piutes and Piutes camped at Winnemucca, and in the morning I meet a young brave on horseback
a short distance out of town and let him try his hand with the bicycle.  I wheel him along
a few yards and let him dismount; and then I show him how to mount and invite him to try it
himself.  He gallantly makes the attempt, but springs forward with too much energy, and over
he topples, with the bicycle cavorting around on top of him. 's mind? What's the matter anyway?
What's all have this front about? "Abe
faced the engineer with hard, straight look." Don't you to know what
it's never be for?

"" ravenously so as i sit it see it's all on
nothing about all.

Tell me. "" well, Mr. Holmes, i will. 
The river runs through green meadows of rich bottom-land hereabouts; but the meadows soon disappear
as I travel eastward.  Twenty miles east of Winnemucca the river arid railroad pass through
the ca¤on in a low range of mountains, while my route lies over the summit.  It is a steep
trundle up the fountains, but from the summit a broad view of the surrounding country is obtained.
The Humboldt River is not a beautiful stream, and for the greater part of its length it meanders
through alternate stretches of dreary sage-brush plain and low sand-hills, at long intervals
passing through a ca¤on in some barren mountain chain. But "distance lends enchantment to the
view," and from the summit of the mountain pass even the Humboldt looks beautiful.