But when my essay was examined, the three gentlemen above-named were affrighted.  There are
truths the unstudied simplicity of which emits a lustre which obscures all the results of an
eloquence which exaggerates or extenuates; Louis XIII. furnished such proofs in abundance.
I had contented myself by showing them forth; but this picture tarnished those which followed--so
at least it appeared to those who had gilded the latter.  They applied themselves, therefore,
to cut out, or weaken, everything that might, by comparison, obscure their hero.  But as they
found at last that it was not me they had to correct, but the thing itself, they gave up the
task altogether, threw aside my writing, and printed the history without any notice whatever
of Louis XIII. under his portrait--except to note that his death caused his son to ascend the
throne.

Reflections upon this kind of iniquity would carry me too far.

In the early part of this year (1702), King William (of England), worn out before his time
with labours and business, in which he had been engaged all his life, and which he had carried
on with a capacity, an address, a superiority of genius that acquired for him supreme authority
in Holland, the crown of England, the confidence, and, to speak the truth, the complete dictatorship
of all Europe--except France;--King William, I say, had fallen into a wasting of strength and
of health which, without attacking or diminishing his intellect, or causing him to relax the
infinite labours of his cabinet, was accompanied by a deficiency of breath, which aggravated
the asthma he had had for several years.  He felt his condition, and his powerful genius did
not disavow it.  Under forged names he consulted the most eminent physicians of Europe, among
others, Fagon; who, having to do, as he thought, with a cure, replied in all sincerity, and
with out dissimulation, that he must prepare for a speedy death.  His illness increasing, William
consulted Fagon, anew, but this time openly.  The physician recognised the malady of the cure--he
did not change his opinion, but expressed it in a less decided manner, and prescribed with
much feeling the remedies most likely if not to cure, at least to prolong.  These remedies
were followed and gave relief; but at last the time had arrived when William was to feel that
the greatest men finish like the humblest and to see the nothingness of what the world calls
great destinies.

He rode out as often as he could; but no longer having the strength to hold himself on horseback,
received a fall, which hastened his end by the shock it gave him.  He occupied himself with
religion as little as he had all his life.  He ordered everything, and spoke to his ministers
and his familiars with a surprising tranquillity, which did not abandon him until the last
moment.  Although crushed with pain, he had the satisfaction of thinking that he had consummated
a great alliance, which would last after his death, and that it would strike the great blow
against France, which he had projected.  This thought, which flattered him even in the hour
of death, stood in place of all other consolation,--a consolation frivolous and cruelly deceitful,
which left him soon the prey to eternal truths! For two days he was sustained by strong waters
and spirituous liquors. His last nourishment was a cup of chocolate.  He died the 19th March,
1702, at ten o'clock in the morning.

The Princess Anne, his sister-in-law, wife of Prince George of Denmark, was at the same time
proclaimed queen.  A few days after, she declared her husband Grand Admiral and Commander-in-Chief
(generalissimo), recalled the Earl of Rochester, her maternal uncle, and the Earl of Sunderland,
and sent the Count of Marlborough, afterwards so well known, to Holland to follow out there
all the plans of his predecessor.

