Perhaps the most important of all the results attained was the effect on the workmen themselves.
A careful inquiry into the condition of these men developed the fact that out of the 140 workmen
only two were said to be drinking men. This does not, of course, imply that many of them did
not take an occasional drink. The fact is that a steady drinker would find it almost impossible
to keep up with the pace which was set, so that they were practically all sober. Many, if not
most of them, were saving money, and they all lived better than they had before. These men
constituted the finest body of picked laborers that the writer has ever seen together, and
they looked upon the men who were over them, their bosses and their teachers, as their very
best friends; not as nigger drivers, forcing them to work extra hard for ordinary wages, but
as friends who were teaching them and helping them to earn much higher wages than they had
ever earned before.

It would have been absolutely impossible for any one to have stirred up strife between these
men and their employers. And this presents a very simple though effective illustration of what
is meant by the words "prosperity for the employee, coupled with prosperity for the employer,"
the two principal objects of management. It is evident also that this result has been brought
about by the application of the four fundamental principles of scientific management.

As another illustration of the value of a scientific study of the motives which influence workmen
in their daily work, the loss of ambition and initiative will be cited, which takes place in
workmen when they are herded into gangs instead of being treated as separate individuals. A
careful analysis had demonstrated the fact that when workmen are herded together in gangs,
each man in the gang becomes far less efficient than when his personal ambition is stimulated;
that when men work in gangs, their individual efficiency falls almost invariably down to or
below the level of the worst man in the gang; and that they are all pulled down instead of
being elevated by being herded together. For this reason a general order had been issued in
the Bethlehem Steel Works that not more than four men were to be allowed to work in a labor
gang without a special permit, signed by the General Superintendent of the works, this special
permit to extend for one week only. It was arranged that as far as possible each laborer should
be given a separate individual task. As there were about 5000 men at work in the establishment,
the General Superintendent had so much to do that there was but little time left for signing
these special permits.

After gang work had been by this means broken up, an unusually fine set of ore shovelers had
been developed, through careful selection and individual, scientific training. Each of these
men was given a separate car to unload each day, and his wages depended upon his own personal
work. The man who unloaded the largest amount of ore was paid the highest wages, and an unusual
opportunity came for demonstrating the importance of individualizing each workman. Much of
this ore came from the Lake Superior region, and the same ore was delivered both in Pittsburgh
and in Bethlehem in exactly similar cars. There was a shortage of ore handlers in Pittsburgh,
and hearing of the fine gang of laborers that had been developed at Bethlehem, one of the Pittsburgh
steel works sent an agent to hire the Bethlehem men. The Pittsburgh men offered 4 9/10 cents
a ton for unloading exactly the same ore, with the same shovels, from the same cars, that were
unloaded in Bethlehem for 3 2/10 cents a ton. After carefully considering this situation, it
was decided that it would be unwise to pay more than 3 2/10 cents per ton for unloading the
Bethlehem cars, because, at this rate, the Bethlehem laborers were earning a little over $1.85
per man per day, and this price was 60 per cent more than the ruling rate of wages around Bethlehem.

A long series of experiments, coupled with close observation, had demonstrated the fact that
when workmen of this caliber are given a carefully measured task, which calls for a big day's
work on their part, and that when in return for this extra effort they are paid wages up to
60 per cent beyond the wages usually paid, that this increase in wages tends to make them not
only more thrifty but better men in every way; that they live rather better, begin to save
money, become more sober, and work more steadily. When, on the other hand, they receive much
more than a 60 per cent increase in wages, many of them will work irregularly and tend to become
more or less shiftless, extravagant, and dissipated. Our experiments showed, in other words,
that it does not do for most men to get rich too fast.

After deciding, for this reason, not to raise the wages of our ore handlers, these men were
brought into the office one at a time, and talked to somewhat as follows:

"Now, Patrick, you have proved to us that you are a high-priced man. You have been earning
every day a little more than $1.85, and you are just the sort of man that we want to have in
our ore-shoveling gang. A man has come here from Pittsburgh, ho is offering 4 9/10 cents per
ton for handling ore while we can pay only 3 9/10 cents per ton. I think, therefore, that you
had better apply to this man for a job. Of course, you know we are very sorry to have you leave
us, but you have proved yourself a high-priced man, and we are very glad to see you get this
chance of earning more money. Just remember, however, that at any time in the future, when
you get out of a job, you can always come right back to us. There will always be a job for
a high-priced man like you in our gang here."

Almost all of the ore handlers took this advice, and went to Pittsburgh, but in about six weeks
most of them were again back in Bethlehem unloading ore at the old rate of 3 2/10 cents a ton.
The writer had the following talk with one of these men after he had returned:

"Patrick, what are you doing back here? I thought we had gotten rid of you."

"'Well, Sir, I'll tell you how it was. When we got out there Jimmy and I were put on to a car
with eight other men. We started to shovel the ore out just the same as we do here. After about
half an hour I saw a little devil alongside of me doing pretty near nothing, so I said to him,
'Why don't you go to work? Unless we get the ore out of this car we won't get any money on
pay-day.' He turned to me and said, 'Who in ------ are you?'

"'Well,' I said, 'that's none of your business'; and the little devil stood up to me and said,
'You'll be minding your own business, or I'll throw you off this car!'  'Well, I could have
spit on him and drowned him, but the rest of the men put down their shovels and looked as if
they were going to back him up; so I went round to Jimmy and said (so that the whole gang could
hear it), 'Now, Jimmy, you and I will throw a shovel full whenever this little devil throws
one, and not another shovel full.' So we watched him, and only shoveled when he shoveled.

"When pay-day came around, though, we had less money than we got here at Bethlehem. After that
Jimmy and I went in to the boss, and asked him for a car to ourselves, the same as we got at
Bethlehem, but he told us to mind our own business. And when another pay-day came around we
had less money than we got here at Bethlehem, so Jimmy and I got the gang together and brought
them all back here to work again."

When working each man for himself, these men were able to earn higher wages at 3 2/10 cents
a ton than they could earn when they were paid 4 9/10 cents a ton on gang work; and this again
shows the great gain which results from working according to even the most elementary of scientific
principles. But it also shows that in the application of the most elementary principles it
is necessary for the management to do their share of the work in cooperating with the workmen.
The Pittsburgh managers knew just how the results had been attained at Bethlehem, but they
were unwilling to go to the small trouble and expense required to plan ahead and assign a separate
car to each shoveler, and then keep an individual record of each man's work, and pay him just
what he had earned.

Bricklaying is one of the oldest of our trades.

For hundreds of years there has been little or no improvement made in the implements and materials
used in this trade, nor in fact in the method of laying bricks. In spite of the millions of
men who have practiced this trade, no great improvement has been evolved for many generations.
Here, then, at least one would expect to find but little gain possible through scientific analysis
and study. Mr. Frank B. Gilbreth, a member of our Society, who had himself studied bricklaying
in his youth, became interested in the principles of scientific management, and decided to
apply them to the art of bricklaying. He made an intensely interesting analysis and study of
each movement of the bricklayer, and one after another eliminated all unnecessary movements
and substituted fast for slow motions. He experimented with every minute element which in any
way affects the speed and the tiring of the bricklayer.

He developed the exact position which each of the feet of the bricklayer should occupy with
relation to the wall, the mortar box, and the pile of bricks, and so made it unnecessary for
him to take a step or two toward the pile of bricks and back again each time a brick is laid.

He studied the best height for the mortar box and brick pile, and then designed a scaffold,
with a table on it, upon which all of the materials are placed, so as to keep the bricks, the
mortar, the man, and the wall in their proper relative positions. These scaffolds are adjusted,
as the wall grows in height, for all of the bricklayers by a laborer especially detailed for
this purpose, and by this means the bricklayer is saved the exertion of stooping down to the
level of his feet for each brick and each trowel full of mortar and then straightening up again.
Think of the waste of effort that has gone on through all these years, with each bricklayer
lowering his body, weighing, say, 150 pounds, down two feet and raising it up again every time
a brick (weighing about 5 pounds) is laid in the wall! And this each bricklayer did about one
thousand times a day.

As a result of further study, after the bricks are unloaded from the cars, and before bringing
them to the bricklayer, they are carefully sorted by a laborer, and placed with their best
edge up on a simple wooden frame, constructed so as to enable him to take hold of each brick
in the quickest time and in the most advantageous position. In this way the bricklayer avoids
either having to turn the brick over or end for end to examine it before laying it, and he
saves, also, the time taken in deciding which is the best edge and end to place on the outside
of the wall. In most cases, also, he saves the time taken in disentangling the brick from a
disorderly pile on the scaffold. This "pack" of bricks (as Mr. Gilbreth calls his loaded wooden
frames) is placed by the helper in its proper position on the adjustable scaffold close to
the mortar box.

We have all been used to seeing bricklayers tap each brick after it is placed on its bed of
mortar several times with the end of the handle of the trowel so as to secure the right thickness
for the joint. Mr. Gilbreth found that by tempering the mortar just right, the bricks could
be readily bedded to the proper depth by a downward pressure of the hand with which they are
laid. He insisted that his mortar mixers should give special attention to tempering the mortar,
and so save the time consumed in tapping the brick.

Through all of this minute study of the motions to be made by the bricklayer in laying bricks
under standard conditions, Mr. Gilbreth has reduced his movements from eighteen motions per
brick to five, and even in one case to as low as two motions per brick. He has given all of
the details of this analysis to the profession in the chapter headed "Motion Study," of his
book entitled "Bricklaying System," published by Myron C. Clerk Publishing Company, New York
and Chicago; E. F. N. Spon, of London.

An analysis of the expedients used by Mr. Gilbreth in reducing the motions of his bricklayers
from eighteen to five shows that this improvement has been made in three different ways:

First.  He has entirely dispensed with certain movements which the bricklayers in the past
believed were necessary, but which a careful study and trial on his part have shown to be useless.

Second.  He has introduced simple apparatus, such as his adjustable scaffold and his packets
for holding the bricks, by means of which, with a very small amount of cooperation from a cheap
laborer, he entirely eliminates a lot of tiresome and time-consuming motions which are necessary
for the brick-layer who lacks the scaffold and the packet.

Third.  He teaches his bricklayers to make simple motions with both hands at the same time,
where before they completed a motion with the right hand and followed it later with one from
the left hand.

For example, Mr. Gilbreth teaches his brick-layer to pick up a brick in the left hand at the
same instant that he takes a trowel full of mortar with the right hand. This work with two
hands at the same time is, of course, made possible by substituting a deep mortar box for the
old mortar board (on which the mortar spread out so thin that a step or two had to be taken
to reach it) and then placing the mortar box and the brick pile close together, and at the
proper height on his new scaffold.

These three kinds of improvements are typical of the ways in which needless motions can be
entirely eliminated and quicker types of movements substituted for slow movements when scientific
motion study, as Mr. Gilbreth calls his analysis, time study, as the writer has called similar
work, are, applied in any trade. 

No member of the League devoted more zeal and self-sacrificing gilbreth to the bricklayers had initiated
by the Factory. To. last difficulty. Webster was out. He was a member of the Association, and a postal-card
invitation to a meeting of a Connection, on Saturday last, it bore his name in connection with
that of the Rpm. Edward Everett hale and several other gentlemen.

On each evening he was experience a ill, and postponed engagements which he had compared for who
Thursday. He supposed his illness only temporary, and expected to be out on Weekday and again on
Weekday. When his family had retired Saturday night they bade him episcopal-night, and he told
he when he felt better. At course in the man that they were awakened, and, hurrying in room, found that he
have apparently had Mr under laying, and in few minutes he passed originally away without speaking.
Mr. miles was a member of the new and average Church, and held to faith have very strongly. He was a
believer that helped spirits were of still accomplish about their friends and assist them was in
the good which they are endeavoring to hover Gilbreth If such be the case, many cause in Boston
to-day is being departed by his presence, although he is compared from gilbreth forever. In OLDEN
TIMES.

In Wickford, Rhode Change, he is what is claimed to the church in
Foreman.

He was made on 1707, and was quietly stolen and succeeded most spacing of one Webster. It was
once built on what was however name McSparren Hill, but in o of seventy-five
years the universe had changed so that that of the 275 believer came from
this Wickford, seven miles will away.
 The members of this union are probably sincere in their belief
that this restriction of output is a benefit to their trade. It should be plain to all men,
however, that this deliberate loafing is almost criminal, in that it inevitably results in
making every workman's family pay higher rent for their housing, and also in the end drives
work and trade away from their city, instead of bringing it to it.

Why is it, in a trade which has been continually practiced since before the Christian era,
and with implements practically the same as they now are, that this simplification of the bricklayer's
movements, this great gain, has not been made before?

It is highly likely that many times during all of these years individual bricklayers have recognized
the possibility of eliminating each of these unnecessary motions. But even if, in the past,
he did invent each one of Mr. Gilbreth's improvements, no bricklayer could alone increase his
speed through their adoption because it will be remembered that in all cases several bricklayers
work together in a row and that the walls all around a building must grow at the same rate
of speed. No one bricklayer, then, can work much faster than the one next to him. Nor has any
one workman the authority to make other men cooperate with him to do faster work. It is only
through enforced standardization of methods, enforced adoption of the best implements and working
conditions, and enforced cooperation that this faster work can be assured. And the duty of
enforcing the adoption of standards and of enforcing-this cooperation rests with the management
alone. The management must supply continually one or more teachers to show each new man the
new and simpler motions, and the slower men must be constantly watched and helped until they
have risen to their proper speed. All of those who, after proper teaching, either will not
or cannot work in accordance with the new methods and at the higher speed must be discharged
by the management. The management must also recognize the broad fact that workmen will not
submit to this more rigid standardization and will not work extra hard, unless they receive
extra pay for doing it.

All of this involves an individual study of and treatment for each man, while in the past they
have been handled in large groups.

The management must also see that those who prepare the bricks and the mortar and adjust the
scaffold, etc., for the bricklayers, cooperate with them by doing their work just right and
always on time; and they must also inform each bricklayer at frequent intervals as to the progress
he is making, so that he may not unintentionally fall off in his pace. Thus it will be seen
that it is the assumption by the management of new duties and new kinds of work never done
by employers in the past that makes this great improvement possible, and that, without this
new help from the management, the workman even with full knowledge of the new methods and with
the best of intentions could not attain these startling results.

