(30) Firstly, I ask what shall we do if reason prove recalcitrant? (31) Shall we still be bound
to affirm whatever Scripture affirms, and to deny whatever Scripture denies? (32) Perhaps it
will be answered that Scripture contains nothing repugnant to reason. (33) But I insist !hat
it expressly affirms and teaches that God is jealous (namely, in the decalogue itself, and
in Exod. xxxiv:14, and in Deut. iv:24, and in many other places), and I assert that such a
doctrine is repugnant to reason. (34) It must, I suppose, in spite of all, be accepted as true.
If there are any passages in Scripture which imply that God is not jealous, they must be taken
metaphorically as meaning nothing of the kind. (35) So, also, Scripture expressly states (Exod.
xix:20, &c.) that God came down to Mount Sinai, and it attributes to Him other movements from
place to place, nowhere directly stating that God does not so move. (36) Wherefore, we must
take the passage literally, and Solomon's words (I Kings viii:27), "But will God dwell on the
earth? (37) Behold the heavens and earth cannot contain thee," inasmuch as they do not expressly
state that God does not move from place to place, but only imply it, must be explained away
till they have no further semblance of denying locomotion to the Deity. (38) So also we must
believe that the sky is the habitation and throne of God, for Scripture expressly says so;
and similarly many passages expressing the opinions of the prophets or the multitude, which
reason and philosophy, but not Scripture, tell us to be false, must be taken as true if we
are io follow the guidance of our author, for according to him, reason has nothing to do with
the matter. (39) Further, it is untrue that Scripture never contradicts itself directly, but
only by implication. (40) For Moses says, in so many words (Deut. iv:24), "The Lord thy God
is a consuming fire," and elsewhere expressly denies that God has any likeness to visible things.
(Deut. iv. 12.) (41) If it be decided that the latter passage only contradicts the former by
implication, and must be adapted thereto, lest it seem to negative it, let us grant that God
is a fire; or rather, lest we should seem to have taken leave of our senses, let us pass the
matter over and take another example.

(42) Samuel expressly denies that God ever repents, "for he is not a man that he should repent"
(I Sam. xv:29). (43) Jeremiah, on the other hand, asserts that God does repent, both of the
evil and of the good which He had intended to do (Jer. xviii:8-10). (44) What? (45) Are not
these two texts directly contradictory? (46) Which of the two, then, would our author want
to explain metaphorically? (47) Both statements are general, and each is the opposite of the
other - what one flatly affirms, the other flatly, denies. (48) So, by his own rule, he would
be obliged at once to reject them as false, and to accept them as true.

(49) Again, what is the point of one passage, not being contradicted by another directly, but
only by implication, if the implication is clear, and the nature and context of the passage
preclude metaphorical interpretation? (50) There are many such instances in the Bible, as we
saw in Chap. II. (where we pointed out that the prophets held different and contradictory opinions),
and also in Chaps. IX. and X., where we drew attention to the contradictions in the historical
narratives. (51) There is no need for me to go through them all again, for what I have said
sufficiently exposes the absurdities which would follow from an opinion and rule such as we
are discussing, and shows the hastiness of its propounder.

(52) We may, therefore, put this theory, as well as that of Maimonides, entirely out of court;
and we may, take it for indisputable that theology is not bound to serve reason, nor reason
theology, but that each has her own domain.

(53) The sphere of reason is, as we have said, truth and wisdom; the sphere of theology, is
piety and obedience. (54) The power of reason does not extend so far as to determine for us
that men may be blessed through simple obedience, without understanding. (55) Theology, tells
us nothing else, enjoins on us no command save obedience, and has neither the will nor the
power to oppose reason: she defines the dogmas of faith (as we pointed out in the last chapter)
only in so far as they may be necessary, for obedience, and leaves reason to determine their
precise truth: for reason is the light of the mind, and without her all things are dreams and
phantoms.

(56) By theology, I here mean, strictly speaking, revelation, in so far as it indicates the
object aimed at by Scripture namely, the scheme and manner of obedience, or the true dogmas
of piety and faith. (57) This may truly be called the Word of God, which does not consist in
a certain number of books (see Chap. XII.). (58) Theology thus understood, if we regard its
precepts or rules of life, will be found in accordance with reason; and, if we look to its
aim and object, will be seen to be in nowise repugnant thereto, wherefore it is universal to
all men.

(59) As for its bearing on Scripture, we have shown in Chap. VII. that the meaning of Scripture
should be gathered from its own history, and not from the history of nature in general, which
is the basis of philosophy.

(60) We ought not to be hindered if we find that our investigation of the meaning of Scripture
thus conducted shows us that it is here and there repugnant to reason; for whatever we may
find of this sort in the Bible, which men may be in ignorance of, without injury to their charity,
has, we may be sure, no bearing on theology or the Word of God, and may, therefore, without
blame, be viewed by every one as he pleases.

(61) To sum up, we may draw the absolute conclusion that the Bible must not be accommodated
to reason, nor reason to the Bible.

(62) Now, inasmuch as the basis of theology - the doctrine that man may be saved by obedience
alone - cannot be proved by reason whether it be true or false, we may be asked, Why, then,
should we believe it? (63) If we do so without the aid of reason, we accept it blindly, and
act foolishly and injudiciously; if, on the other hand, we settle that it can be proved by
reason, theology becomes a part of philosophy, and inseparable therefrom. (64) But I make answer
that I have absolutely established that this basis of theology cannot be investigated by the
natural light of reason, or, at any rate, that no one ever has proved it by such means, and,
therefore, revelation was necessary. (65) We should, however, make use of our reason, in order
to grasp with moral certainty what is revealed - I say, with moral certainty, for we cannot
hope to attain greater certainty, than the prophets: yet their certainty was only, moral, as
I showed in Chap. II.

(66) Those, therefore, who attempt to set forth the authority of Scripture with mathematical
demonstrations are wholly in error: for the authority, of the Bible is dependent on the authority
of the prophets, and can be supported by no stronger arguments than those employed in old time
by the prophets for convincing the people of their own authority. (67) Our certainty on the
same subject can be founded on no other basis than that which served as foundation for the
certainty of the prophets.

(68) Now the certainty of the prophets consisted (as we pointed out) in these elements:- (69)
(I.) A distinct and vivid imagination. (70) (II.) A sign. (71) (III.) Lastly, and chiefly,
a mind turned to what is just and good. It was based on no other reasons than these, and consequently
they cannot prove their authority by any other reasons, either to the multitude whom they addressed
orally, nor to us whom they address in writing.

(72) The first of these reasons, namely, the vivid imagination, could be valid only for the
prophets; therefore, our certainty concerning revelation must, and ought to be, based on the
remaining two - namely, the sign and the teaching. (73) Such is the express doctrine of Moses,
for (in Deut. xviii.) he bids the people obey the prophet who should give a true sign in the
name of the Lord, but if he should predict falsely, even though it were in the name of the
Lord, he should be put to death, as should also he who strives to lead away the people from
the true religion, though he confirm his authority with signs and portents. (74) We may compare
with the above Deut. xiii. (75) Whence it follows that a true prophet could be distinguished
from a false one, both by his doctrine and by the miracles he wrought, for Moses declares such
an one to be a true prophet, and bids the people trust him without fear of deceit. (76) He
condemns as false, and worthy, of death, those who predict anything falsely even in the name
of the Lord, or who preach false gods, even though their miracles be real.

(77) The only reason, then, which we have for belief in Scripture or the writings of the prophets,
is the doctrine we find therein, and the signs by which it is confirmed. (78) For as we see
that the prophets extol charity and justice above all things, and have no other object, we
conclude that they did not write from unworthy motives, but because they really thought that
men might become blessed through obedience and faith: further, as we see that they confirmed
their teaching with signs and wonders, we become persuaded that they did not speak at random,
nor run riot in their prophecies. (79) We are further strengthened in our conclusion by the
fact that the morality they teach is in evident agreement with reason, for it is no accidental
coincidence that the Word of God which we find in the prophets coincides with the Word of God
written in our hearts. (80) We may, I say, conclude this from the sacred books as certainly
as did the Jews of old from the living voice of the prophets: for we showed in Chap. XII. that
Scripture has come down to us intact in respect to its doctrine and main narratives.

(81) Therefore this whole basis of theology and Scripture, though it does not admit of mathematical
proof, may yet be accepted with the approval of our judgment. (82) It would be folly to refuse
to accept what is confirmed by such ample prophetic testimony, and what has proved such a comfort
to those whose reason is comparatively weak, and such a benefit to the state; a doctrine, moreover,
which we may believe in without the slightest peril or hurt, and should reject simply because
it cannot be mathematically proved: it is as though we should admit nothing as true, or as
a wise rule of life, which could ever, in any possible way, be called in question; or as though
most of our actions were not full of uncertainty and hazards.

(83) I admit that those who believe that theology and philosophy are mutually contradictory,
and that therefore either one or the other must be thrust from its throne - I admit, I say,
that such persons are not unreasonable in attempting to put theology on a firm basis, and to
demonstrate its truth mathematically. (84) Who, unless he were desperate or mad, would wish
to bid an incontinent farewell to reason, or to despise the arts and sciences, or to deny reason's
certitude? (85) But, in the meanwhile, we cannot wholly absolve them from blame, inasmuch as
they invoke the aid of reason for her own defeat, and attempt infallibly to prove her fallible.
(86) While they are trying to prove mathematically the authority and truth of theology, and
to take away the authority of natural reason, they are in reality only bringing theology under
reason's dominion, and proving that her authority has no weight unless natural reason be at
the back of it.

(87) If they boast that they themselves assent because of the inward testimony of the Holy
Spirit, and that they only invoke the aid of reason because of unbelievers, in order to convince
them, not even so can this meet with our approval, for we can easily show that they have spoken
either from emotion or vain-glory. (88) It most clearly follows from the last chapter that
the Holy Spirit only gives its testimony in favour of works, called by Paul (in Gal. v:22)
the fruits of the Spirit, and is in itself really nothing but the mental acquiescence which
follows a good action in our souls. (89) No spirit gives testimony concerning the certitude
of matters within the sphere of speculation, save only reason, who is mistress, as we have
shown, of the whole realm of truth. (90) If then they assert that they possess this Spirit
which makes them certain of truth, they speak falsely, and according to the prejudices of the
emotions, or else they are in great dread lest they should be vanquished by philosophers and
exposed to public ridicule, and therefore they flee, as it were, to the altar; but their refuge
is vain, for what altar will shelter a man who has outraged reason? (91) However, I pass such
persons over, for I think I have fulfilled my purpose, and shown how philosophy should be separated
from theology, and wherein each consists; that neither should be subservient to the other,
but that each should keep her unopposed dominion. (92) Lastly, as occasion offered, I have
pointed out the absurdities, the inconveniences, and the evils following from the extraordinary
confusion which has hitherto prevailed between the two subjects, owing to their not being properly
distinguished and separated. (93) Before I go further I would expressly state (though I have
said it before) that I consider the utility and the need for Holy Scripture or Revelation to
be very great. (94) For as we cannot perceive by the natural light of reason that simple obedience
is the path of salvation [Endnote 25], and are taught by revelation only that it is so by the
special grace of God, which our reason cannot attain, it follows that the Bible has brought
a very great consolation to mankind. (95) All are able to obey, whereas there are but very
few, compared with the aggregate of humanity, who can acquire the habit of virtue under the
unaided guidance of reason. (96) Thus if we had not the testimony of Scripture, we should doubt
of the salvation of nearly all men.

End of Part 3 - Chapters XI to XV.

AUTHOR'S ENDNOTES TO THE THEOLOGICO-POLITICAL TREATISE

CHAPTER XI.

Endnote 24. (1) "Now I think." (2) The translators render the {Greek} word "I infer", and assert
that Paul uses it as synonymous with {a Greek word}. (3) But the former word has, in Greek,
the same meaning as the Hebrew word rendered to think, to esteem, to judge. (4) And this signification
would be in entire agreement with the Syriac translation. (5) This Syriac translation (if it
be a translation, which is very doubtful, for we know neither the time of its appearance, nor
the translators and Syriac was the vernacular of the Apostles) renders the text before us in
a way well explained by Tremellius as "we think, therefore."

CHAPTER XV.

Endnote 25. (1) "That simple obedience is the path of salvation." (2) In other words, it is
enough for salvation or blessedness, that we should embrace the Divine decrees as laws or commands;
there is no need to conceive them as eternal truths. (3) This can be taught us by Revelation,
not Reason, as appears from the demonstrations given in Chapter IV.

End of Part III - Chapters XI to XV.