The dramatic and conversational turn which forms the distinguishing feature and greatest charm
of the Spectator and Tatler, is quite lost in the Rambler by Dr. Johnson. There is no reflected
light thrown on human life from an assumed character, nor any direct one from a display of
the author's own. The Tatler and Spectator are, as it were, made up of notes and memorandums
of the events and incidents of the day, with finished studies after nature, and characters
fresh from the life, which the writer moralises upon, and turns to account as they come before
him: the Rambler is a collection of moral Essays, or scholastic theses, written on set subjects,
and of which the individual characters and incidents are merely artificial illustrations, brought
in to give a pretended relief to the dryness of didactic discussion. The Rambler is a splendid
and imposing common-place-book of general topics, and rhetorical declamation on the conduct
and business of human life. In this sense, there is hardly a reflection that has been suggested
on such subjects which is not to be found in this celebrated work, and there is, perhaps, hardly
a reflection to be found in it which had not been already suggested and developed by some other
author, or in the common course of conversation. The mass of intellectual wealth here heaped
together is immense, but it is rather the result of gradual accumulation, the produce of the
general intellect, labouring in the mine of knowledge and reflection, than dug out of the quarry,
and dragged into the light by the industry and sagacity of a single mind. I am not here saying
that Dr. Johnson was a man without originality, compared with the ordinary run of men's minds,
but he was not a man of original thought or genius, in the sense in which Montaigne or Lord
Bacon was. He opened no new vein of precious ore, nor did he light upon any single pebbles
of uncommon size and unrivalled lustre. We seldom meet with anything to "give us pause;" he
does not set us thinking for the first time. His reflections present themselves like reminiscences;
do not disturb the ordinary march of our thoughts; arrest our attention by the stateliness
of their appearance, and the costliness of their garb, but pass on and mingle with the throng
of our impressions. After closing the volumes of the Rambler, there is nothing that we remember
as a new truth gained to the mind, nothing indelibly stamped upon the memory; nor is there
any passage that we wish to turn to as embodying any known principle or observation, with such
force and beauty that justice can only be done to the idea in the author's own words. Such,
for instance, are many of the passages to be found in Burke, which shine by their own light,
belong to no class, have neither equal nor counterpart, and of which we say that no one but
the author could have written them! There is neither the same boldness of design, nor mastery
of execution in Johnson. In the one, the spark of genius seems to have met with its congenial
matter: the shaft is sped; the forked lightning dresses up the face of nature in ghastly smiles,
and the loud thunder rolls far away from the ruin that is made. Dr. Johnson's style, on the
contrary, resembles rather the rumbling of mimic thunder at one of our theatres; and the light
he throws upon a subject is like the dazzling effect of phosphorus, or an ignis fatuus of words.
There is a wide difference, however, between perfect originality and perfect common-place:
neither ideas nor expressions are trite or vulgar because they are not quite new. They are
valuable, and ought to be repeated, if they have not become quite common; and Johnson's style
both of reasoning and imagery holds the middle rank between startling novelty and vapid common-place.
Johnson has as much originality of thinking as Addison; but then he wants his familiarity of
illustration, knowledge of character, and delightful humour. What most distinguishes Dr. Johnson
from other writers is the pomp and uniformity of his style. All his periods are cast in the
same mould, are of the same size and shape, and consequently have little fitness to the variety
of things he professes to treat of. His subjects are familiar, but the author is always upon
stilts. He has neither ease nor simplicity, and his efforts at playfulness, in part, remind
one of the lines in Milton:--

                               "----The elephant
  To make them sport wreath'd his proboscis lithe."

His Letters from Correspondents, in particular, are more pompous and unwieldy than what he
writes in his own person. This want of relaxation and variety of manner has, I think, after
the first effects of novelty and surprise were over, been prejudicial to the matter. It takes
from the general power, not only to please, but to instruct. The monotony of style produces
an apparent monotony of ideas. What is really striking and valuable, is lost in the vain ostentation
and circumlocution of the expression; for when we find the same pains and pomp of diction bestowed
upon the most trifling as upon the most important parts of a sentence or discourse, we grow
tired of distinguishing between pretension and reality, and are disposed to confound the tinsel
and bombast of the phraseology with want of weight in the thoughts. Thus, from the imposing
and oracular nature of the style, people are tempted at first to imagine that our author's
speculations are all wisdom and profundity: till having found out their mistake in some instances,
they suppose that there is nothing but common-place in them, concealed under verbiage and pedantry;
and in both they are wrong. The fault of Dr. Johnson's style is, that it reduces all things
to the same artificial and unmeaning level. It destroys all shades of difference, the association
between words and things. It is a perpetual paradox and innovation. He condescends to the familiar
till we are ashamed of our interest in it: he expands the little till it looks big. "If he
were to write a fable of little fishes," as Goldsmith said of him, "he would make them speak
like great whales." We can no more distinguish the most familiar objects in his descriptions
of them, than we can a well-known face under a huge painted mask. The structure of his sentences,
which was his own invention, and which has been generally imitated since his time, is a species
of rhyming in prose, where one clause answers to another in measure and quantity, like the
tagging of syllables at the end of a verse; the close of the period follows as mechanically
as the oscillation of a pendulum, the sense is balanced with the sound; each sentence, revolving
round its centre of gravity, is contained with itself like a couplet, and each paragraph forms
itself into a stanza. Dr. Johnson is also a complete balance-master in the topics of morality.
He never encourages hope, but he counteracts it by fear; he never elicits a truth, but he suggests
some objection in answer to it. He seizes and alternately quits the clue of reason, lest it
should involve him in the labyrinths of endless error: he wants confidence in himself and his
fellows. He dares not trust himself with the immediate impressions of things, for fear of compromising
his dignity; or follow them into their consequences, for fear of committing his prejudices.
His timidity is the result, not of ignorance, but of morbid apprehension. "He runs the great
circle, and is still at home." No advance is made by his writings in any sentiment, or mode
of reasoning. Out of the pale of established authority and received dogmas, all is sceptical,
loose, and desultory: he seems in imagination to strengthen the dominion of prejudice, as he
weakens and dissipates that of reason; and round the rock of faith and power, on the edge of
which he slumbers blindfold and uneasy, the waves and billows of uncertain and dangerous opinion
roar and heave for evermore. His Rasselas is the most melancholy and debilitating moral speculation
that ever was put forth. Doubtful of the faculties of his mind, as of his organs of vision,
Johnson trusted only to his feelings and his fears. He cultivated a belief in witches as an
out-guard to the evidences of religion; and abused Milton, and patronised Lauder, in spite
of his aversion to his countrymen, as a step to secure the existing establishment in church
and state. This was neither right feeling nor sound logic.

The most triumphant record of the talents and character of Johnson is to be found in Boswell's
Life of him. The man was superior to the author. When he threw aside his pen, which he regarded
as an incumbrance, he became not only learned and thoughtful, but acute, witty, humorous, natural,
honest; hearty and determined, "the king of good fellows and wale of old men." There are as
many smart repartees, profound remarks, and keen invectives to be found in Boswell's "inventory
of all he said," as are recorded of any celebrated man. The life and dramatic play of his conversation
forms a contrast to his written works. His natural powers and undisguised opinions were called
out in convivial intercourse. In public, he practised with the foils on: in private, he unsheathed
the sword of controversy, and it was "the Ebro's temper." The eagerness of opposition roused
him from his natural sluggishness and acquired timidity; he returned blow for blow; and whether
the trial were of argument or wit, none of his rivals could boast much of the encounter. Burke
seems to have been the only person who had a chance with him; and it is the unpardonable sin
of Boswell's work, that he has purposely omitted their combats of strength and skill. Goldsmith
asked, "Does he wind into a subject like a serpent, as Burke does?" And when exhausted with
sickness, he himself said, "If that fellow Burke were here now, he would kill me." It is to
be observed, that Johnson's colloquial style was as blunt, direct, and downright, as his style
of studied composition was involved and circuitous. As when Topham Beauclere and Langton knocked
him up at his chambers, at three in the morning, and he came to the door with the poker in
his hand, but seeing them, exclaimed, "What, is it you, my lads? then I'll have a frisk with
you!" and he afterwards reproaches Langton, who was a literary milksop, for leaving them to
go to an engagement "with some un-idead girls." What words to come from the mouth of the great
moralist and lexicographer! His good deeds were as many as his good sayings. His domestic habits,
his tenderness to servants, and readiness to oblige his friends; the quantity of strong tea
that he drank to keep down sad thoughts; his many labours reluctantly begun, and irresolutely
laid aside; his honest acknowledgment of his own, and indulgence to the weaknesses of others;
his throwing himself back in the post-chaise with Boswell, and saying, "Now I think I am a
good-humoured fellow," though nobody thought him so, and yet he was; his quitting the society
of Garrick and his actresses, and his reason for it; his dining with Wilkes, and his kindness
to Goldsmith; his sitting with the young ladies on his knee at the Mitre, to give them good
advice, in which situation, if not explained, he might be taken for Falstaff; and last and
noblest, his carrying the unfortunate victim of disease and dissipation on his back up through
Fleet Street, (an act which realises the parable of the good Samaritan)--all these, and innumerable
others, endear him to the reader, and must be remembered to his lasting honour. He had faults,
but they lie buried with him. He had his prejudices and his intolerant feelings; but he suffered
enough in the conflict of his own mind with them. For if no man can be happy in the free exercise
of his reason, no wise man can be happy without it. His were not time-serving, heartless, hypocritical
prejudices; but deep, inwoven, not to be rooted out but with life and hope, which he found
from old habit necessary to his own peace of mind, and thought so to the peace of mankind.
I do not hate, but love him for them. They were between himself and his conscience; and should
be left to that higher tribunal, "where they in trembling hope repose, the bosom of his Father
and his God." In a word, he has left behind him few wiser or better men.

The herd of his imitators shewed what he was by their disproportionate effects. The Periodical
Essayists, that succeeded the Rambler, are, and deserve to be, little read at present. The
Adventurer, by Hawksworth, is completely trite and vapid, aping all the faults of Johnson's
style, without any thing to atone for them. The sentences are often absolutely unmeaning; and
one half of each might regularly be left blank. The World, and Connoisseur, which followed,
are a little better; and in the last of these there is one good idea, that of a man in indifferent
health, who judges of every one's title to respect from their possession of this blessing,
and bows to a sturdy beggar with sound limbs and a florid complexion, while he turns his back
upon a lord who is a valetudinarian.

Goldsmith's Citizen of the World, like all his works, bears the stamp of the author's mind.
It does not "go about to cozen reputation without the stamp of merit." He is more observing,
more original, more natural and picturesque than Johnson. His work is written on the model
of the Persian Letters; and contrives to give an abstracted and somewhat perplexing view of
things, by opposing foreign prepossessions to our own, and thus stripping objects of their
customary disguises. Whether truth is elicited in this collision of contrary absurdities, I
do not know; but I confess the process is too ambiguous and full of intricacy to be very amusing
to my plain understanding. For light summer reading, it is like walking in a garden full of
traps and pitfalls. It necessarily gives rise to paradoxes, and there are some very bold ones
in the Essays, which would subject an author less established to no very agreeable sort of
censura literaria. Thus the Chinese philosopher exclaims very unadvisedly, "The bonzes and
priests of all religions keep up superstition and imposture: all reformations begin with the
laity." Goldsmith, however, was staunch in his practical creed, and might bolt speculative
extravagances with impunity. There is a striking difference in this respect between him and
Addison, who, if he attacked authority, took care to have common sense on his side, and never
hazarded anything offensive to the feelings of others, or on the strength of his own discretional
opinion. There is another inconvenience in this assumption of an exotic character and tone
of sentiment, that it produces an inconsistency between the knowledge which the individual
has time to acquire, and which the author is bound to communicate. Thus the Chinese has not
been in England three days before he is acquainted with the characters of the three countries
which compose this kingdom, and describes them to his friend at Canton, by extracts from the
newspapers of each metropolis. The nationality of Scotchmen is thus ridiculed:--"Edinburgh.
We are positive when we say, that Sanders Macgregor, lately executed for horse-stealing, is
not a native of Scotland, but born at Carrickfergus." Now this is very good; but how should
our Chinese philosopher find it out by instinct? Beau Tibbs, a prominent character in this
little work, is the best comic sketch since the time of Addison; unrivalled in his finery,
his vanity, and his poverty.

I have only to mention the names of the Lounger and the Mirror, which are ranked by the author's
admirers with Sterne for sentiment, and with Addison for humour. I shall not enter into that:
but I know that the story of La Roche is not like the story of Le Fevre, nor one hundredth
part so good. Do I say this from prejudice to the author? No: for I have read his novels. Of
the Man of the World I cannot think so favourably as some others; nor shall I here dwell on
the picturesque and romantic beauties of Julia de Roubigné, the early favourite of the author
of Rosamond Gray; but of the Man of Feeling I would speak with grateful recollections: nor
is it possible to forget the sensitive, irresolute, interesting Harley; and that lone figure
of Miss Walton in it, that floats in the horizon, dim and ethereal, the day-dream of her lover's
youthful fancy--better, far better than all the realities of life!

VIII

THE ENGLISH NOVELISTS

There is an exclamation in one of Gray's Letters--"Be mine to read eternal new romances of
Marivaux and Crebillon!"--If I did not utter a similar aspiration at the conclusion of the
last new novel which I read (I would not give offence by being more particular as to the name)
it was not from any want of affection for the class of writing to which it belongs: for, without
going so far as the celebrated French philosopher, who thought that more was to be learnt from
good novels and romances than from the gravest treatises on history and morality, yet there
are few works to which I am oftener tempted to turn for profit or delight, than to the standard
productions in this species of composition. We find there a close imitation of men and manners;
we see the very web and texture of society as it really exists, and as we meet with it when
we come into the world. If poetry has "something more divine in it," this savours more of humanity.
We are brought acquainted with the motives and characters of mankind, imbibe our notions of
virtue and vice from practical examples, and are taught a knowledge of the world through the
airy medium of romance. As a record of past manners and opinions, too, such writings afford
the best and fullest information. For example, I should be at a loss where to find in any authentic
documents of the same period so satisfactory an account of the general state of society, and
of moral, political, and religious feeling in the reign of George II, as we meet with in the
Adventures of Joseph Andrews and his friend Mr. Abraham Adams. This work, indeed, I take to
be a perfect piece of statistics in its kind. In looking into any regular history of that period,
into a learned and eloquent charge to a grand jury or the clergy of a diocese, or into a tract
on controversial divinity, we should hear only of the ascendancy of the Protestant succession,
the horrors of Popery, the triumph of civil and religious liberty, the wisdom and moderation
of the sovereign, the happiness of the subject, and the flourishing state of manufactures and
commerce. But if we really wish to know what all these fine-sounding names come to, we cannot
do better than turn to the works of those, who having no other object than to imitate nature,
could only hope for success from the fidelity of their pictures; and were bound (in self-defence)
to reduce the boasts of vague theorists and the exaggerations of angry disputants to the mortifying
standard of reality. Extremes are said to meet: and the works of imagination, as they are called,
sometimes come the nearest to truth and nature. Fielding in speaking on this subject, and vindicating
the use and dignity of the style of writing in which he excelled against the loftier pretensions
of professed historians, says that in their productions nothing is true but the names and dates,
whereas in his everything is true but the names and dates. If so, he has the advantage on his side.

I will here confess, however, that I am a little prejudiced on the point in question; and that
the effect of many fine speculations has been lost upon me, from an early familiarity with
the most striking passages in the work to which I have just alluded. Thus nothing can be more
captivating than the description somewhere given by Mr. Burke of the indissoluble connection
between learning and nobility; and of the respect universally paid by wealth to piety and morals.
But the effect of this ideal representation has always been spoiled by my recollection of Parson
Adams sitting over his cup of ale in Sir Thomas Booby's kitchen. Echard "On the Contempt of
the Clergy" is, in like manner, a very good book, and "worthy of all acceptation:" but, somehow,
an unlucky impression of the reality of Parson Trulliber involuntarily checks the emotions
of respect, to which it might otherwise give rise: while, on the other hand, the lecture which
Lady Booby reads to Lawyer Scout on the immediate expulsion of Joseph and Fanny from the parish
casts no very favourable light on the flattering accounts of our practical jurisprudence which
are to be found in Blackstone or De Lolme. The most moral writers, after all, are those who
do not pretend to inculcate any moral. The professed moralist almost unavoidably degenerates
into the partisan of a system; and the philosopher is too apt to warp the evidence to his own
purpose. But the painter of manners gives the facts of human nature, and leaves us to draw
the inference: if we are not able to do this, or do it ill, at least it is our own fault.

The first-rate writers in this class, of course, are few; but those few we may reckon among
the greatest ornaments and best benefactors of our kind. There is a certain set of them who,
as it were, take their rank by the side of reality, and are appealed to as evidence on all
questions concerning human nature. The principal of these are Cervantes and Le Sage, who may
be considered as having been naturalised among ourselves; and, of native English growth, Fielding,
Smollett, Richardson, and Sterne.[132] As this is a department of criticism which deserves
more attention than has been usually bestowed upon it, I shall here venture to recur (not from
choice, but necessity) to what I have said upon it in a well-known periodical publication;
and endeavour to contribute my mite towards settling the standard of excellence, both as to
degree and kind, in these several writers....

