Thuggee became known to the British authorities in India about 1810, but its wide prevalence
was not suspected; it was not regarded as a serious matter, and no systematic measures were
taken for its suppression until about 1830.  About that time Major Sleeman captured Eugene
Sue's Thug-chief, "Feringhea," and got him to turn King's evidence.  The revelations were so
stupefying that Sleeman was not able to believe them. Sleeman thought he knew every criminal
within his jurisdiction, and that the worst of them were merely thieves; but Feringhea told
him that he was in reality living in the midst of a swarm of professional murderers; that they
had been all about him for many years, and that they buried their dead close by.  These seemed
insane tales; but Feringhea said come and see--and he took him to a grave and dug up a hundred
bodies, and told him all the circumstances of the killings, and named the Thugs who had done
the work.  It was a staggering business.  Sleeman captured some of these Thugs and proceeded
to examine them separately, and with proper precautions against collusion; for he would not
believe any Indian's unsupported word.  The evidence gathered proved the truth of what Feringhea
had said, and also revealed the fact that gangs of Thugs were plying their trade all over India.
The astonished government now took hold of Thuggee, and for ten years made systematic and relentless
war upon it, and finally destroyed it.  Gang after gang was captured, tried, and punished.
The Thugs were harried and hunted from one end of India to the other.  The government got all
their secrets out of them; and also got the names of the members of the bands, and recorded
them in a book, together with their birthplaces and places of residence.

The Thugs were worshipers of Bhowanee; and to this god they sacrificed anybody that came handy;
but they kept the dead man's things themselves, for the god cared for nothing but the corpse.
Men were initiated into the sect with solemn ceremonies.  Then they were taught how to strangle
a person with the sacred choke-cloth, but were not allowed to perform officially with it until
after long practice.  No half-educated strangler could choke a man to death quickly enough
to keep him from uttering a sound--a muffled scream, gurgle, gasp, moan, or something of the
sort; but the expert's work was instantaneous: the cloth was whipped around the victim's neck,
there was a sudden twist, and the head fell silently forward, the eyes starting from the sockets;
and all was over.  The Thug carefully guarded against resistance.  It was usual to to get the
victims to sit down, for that was the handiest position for business.

If the Thug had planned India itself it could not have been more conveniently arranged for
the needs of his occupation.

There were no public conveyances.  There were no conveyances for hire. The traveler went on
foot or in a bullock cart or on a horse which he bought for the purpose.  As soon as he was
out of his own little State or principality he was among strangers; nobody knew him, nobody
took note of him, and from that time his movements could no longer be traced.  He did not stop
in towns or villages, but camped outside of them and sent his servants in to buy provisions.
There were no habitations between villages.  Whenever he was between villages he was an easy
prey, particularly as he usually traveled by night, to avoid the heat.  He was always being
overtaken by strangers who offered him the protection of their company, or asked for the protection
of his--and these strangers were often Thugs, as he presently found out to his cost.  The landholders,
the native police, the petty princes, the village officials, the customs officers were in many
cases protectors and harborers of the Thugs, and betrayed travelers to them for a share of
the spoil.  At first this condition of things made it next to impossible for the government
to catch the marauders; they were spirited away by these watchful friends. All through a vast
continent, thus infested, helpless people of every caste and kind moved along the paths and
trails in couples and groups silently by night, carrying the commerce of the country--treasure,
jewels, money, and petty batches of silks, spices, and all manner of wares.  It was a paradise
for the Thug.

When the autumn opened, the Thugs began to gather together by pre-concert.  Other people had
to have interpreters at every turn, but not the Thugs; they could talk together, no matter
how far apart they were born, for they had a language of their own, and they had secret signs
by which they knew each other for Thugs; and they were always friends.  Even their diversities
of religion and caste were sunk in devotion to their calling, and the Moslem and the high-caste
and low-caste Hindoo were staunch and affectionate brothers in Thuggery.

When a gang had been assembled, they had religious worship, and waited for an omen.  They had
definite notions about the omens.  The cries of certain animals were good omens, the cries
of certain other creatures were bad omens.  A bad omen would stop proceedings and send the
men home.

The sword and the strangling-cloth were sacred emblems.  The Thugs worshiped the sword at home
before going out to the assembling-place; the strangling-cloth was worshiped at the place of
assembly.  The chiefs of most of the bands performed the religious ceremonies themselves; but
the Kaets delegated them to certain official stranglers (Chaurs).  The rites of the Kaets were
so holy that no one but the Chaur was allowed to touch the vessels and other things used in them.

Thug methods exhibit a curious mixture of caution and the absence of it; cold business calculation
and sudden, unreflecting impulse; but there were two details which were constant, and not subject
to caprice: patient persistence in following up the prey, and pitilessness when the time came
to act.

Caution was exhibited in the strength of the bands.  They never felt comfortable and confident
unless their strength exceeded that of any party of travelers they were likely to meet by four
or fivefold.  Yet it was never their purpose to attack openly, but only when the victims were
off their guard.  When they got hold of a party of travelers they often moved along in their
company several days, using all manner of arts to win their friendship and get their confidence.
At last, when this was accomplished to their satisfaction, the real business began.  A few
Thugs were privately detached and sent forward in the dark to select a good killing-place and
dig the graves.  When the rest reached the spot a halt was called, for a rest or a smoke. 
The travelers were invited to sit. By signs, the chief appointed certain Thugs to sit down
in front of the travelers as if to wait upon them, others to sit down beside them and engage
them in conversation, and certain expert stranglers to stand behind the travelers and be ready
when the signal was given.  The signal was usually some commonplace remark, like "Bring the
tobacco."  Sometimes a considerable wait ensued after all the actors were in their places--the
chief was biding his time, in order to make everything sure.  Meantime, the talk droned on,
dim figures moved about in the dull light, peace and tranquility reigned, the travelers resigned
themselves to the pleasant reposefulness and comfort of the situation, unconscious of the death-angels
standing motionless at their backs.  The time was ripe, now, and the signal came: "Bring the
tobacco."  There was a mute swift movement, all in the same instant the men at each victim's
sides seized his hands, the man in front seized his feet, and pulled, the man at his back whipped
the cloth around his neck and gave it a twist the head sunk forward, the tragedy was over.
The bodies were stripped and covered up in the graves, the spoil packed for transportation,
then the Thugs gave pious thanks to Bhowanee, and departed on further holy service.

The Report shows that the travelers moved in exceedingly small groups --twos, threes, fours,
as a rule; a party with a dozen in it was rare.  The Thugs themselves seem to have been the
only people who moved in force. They went about in gangs of 10, 15, 25, 40, 60, 100, 150, 200,
250, and one gang of 310 is mentioned.  Considering their numbers, their catch was not extraordinary--particularly
when you consider that they were not in the least fastidious, but took anybody they could get,
whether rich or poor, and sometimes even killed children.  Now and then they killed women,
but it was considered sinful to do it, and unlucky.  The "season" was six or eight months long.
One season the half dozen Bundelkand and Gwalior gangs aggregated 712 men, and they murdered
210 people.  One season the Malwa and Kandeish gangs aggregated 702 men, and they murdered
232.  One season the Kandeish and Berar gangs aggregated 963 men, and they murdered 385 people.

Here is the tally-sheet of a gang of sixty Thugs for a whole season--gang under two noted chiefs,
"Chotee and Sheik Nungoo from Gwalior":

     "Left Poora, in Jhansee, and on arrival at Sarora murdered a
     traveler.

     "On nearly reaching Bhopal, met 3 Brahmins, and murdered them.

     "Cross the Nerbudda; at a village called Hutteea, murdered a Hindoo.

     "Went through Aurungabad to Walagow; there met a Havildar of the
     barber caste and 5 sepoys (native soldiers); in the evening came to
     Jokur, and in the morning killed them near the place where the
     treasure-bearers were killed the year before.

     "Between Jokur and Dholeea met a sepoy of the shepherd caste; killed
     him in the jungle.

     "Passed through Dholeea and lodged in a village; two miles beyond,
     on the road to Indore, met a Byragee (beggar-holy mendicant);
     murdered him at the Thapa.

     "In the morning, beyond the Thapa, fell in with 3 Marwarie
     travelers; murdered them.

     "Near a village on the banks of the Taptee met 4 travelers and
     killed them.

     "Between Choupra and Dhoreea met a Marwarie; murdered him.

     "At Dhoreea met 3 Marwaries; took them two miles and murdered them.

     "Two miles further on, overtaken by three treasure-bearers; took
     them two miles and murdered them in the jungle.

     "Came on to Khurgore Bateesa in Indore, divided spoil, and
     dispersed.

     "A total of 27 men murdered on one expedition."

Chotee (to save his neck) was informer, and furnished these facts. Several things are noticeable
about his resume.  1. Business brevity; 2, absence of emotion; 3, smallness of the parties
encountered by the 60; 4, variety in character and quality of the game captured; 5, Hindoo
and Mohammedan chiefs in business together for Bhowanee; 6, the sacred caste of the Brahmins
not respected by either; 7, nor yet the character of that mendicant, that Byragee.

A beggar is a holy creature, and some of the gangs spared him on that account, no matter how
slack business might be; but other gangs slaughtered not only him, but even that sacredest
of sacred creatures, the fakeer--that repulsive skin-and-bone thing that goes around naked
and mats his bushy hair with dust and dirt, and so beflours his lean body with ashes that he
looks like a specter.  Sometimes a fakeer trusted a shade too far in the protection of his
sacredness.  In the middle of a tally-sheet of Feringhea's, who had been out with forty Thugs,
I find a case of the kind.  After the killing of thirty-nine men and one woman, the fakeer
appears on the scene:

     "Approaching Doregow, met 3 pundits; also a fakeer, mounted on a
     pony; he was plastered over with sugar to collect flies, and was
     covered with them.  Drove off the fakeer, and killed the other
     three.

     "Leaving Doregow, the fakeer joined again, and went on in company to
     Raojana; met 6 Khutries on their way from Bombay to Nagpore.  Drove
     off the fakeer with stones, and killed the 6 men in camp, and buried
     them in the grove.

     "Next day the fakeer joined again; made him leave at Mana.  Beyond
     there, fell in with two Kahars and a sepoy, and came on towards the
     place selected for the murder.  When near it, the fakeer came again.
     Losing all patience with him, gave Mithoo, one of the gang, 5 rupees
     ($2.50) to murder him, and take the sin upon himself.  All four were
     strangled, including the fakeer.  Surprised to find among the
     fakeer's effects 30 pounds of coral, 350 strings of small pearls, 15
     strings of large pearls, and a gilt necklace."

It it curious, the little effect that time has upon a really interesting circumstance.  This
one, so old, so long ago gone down into oblivion, reads with the same freshness and charm that
attach to the news in the morning paper; one's spirits go up, then down, then up again, following
the chances which the fakeer is running; now you hope, now you despair, now you hope again;
and at last everything comes out right, and you feel a great wave of personal satisfaction
go weltering through you, and without thinking, you put out your hand to pat Mithoo on the
back, when --puff! the whole thing has vanished away, there is nothing there; Mithoo and all
the crowd have been dust and ashes and forgotten, oh, so many, many, many lagging years!  And
then comes a sense of injury: you don't know whether Mithoo got the swag, along with the sin,
or had to divide up the swag and keep all the sin himself.  There is no literary art about
a government report.  It stops a story right in the most interesting place.

These reports of Thug expeditions run along interminably in one monotonous tune: "Met a sepoy--killed
him; met 5 pundits--killed them; met 4 Rajpoots and a woman--killed them"--and so on, till
the statistics get to be pretty dry.  But this small trip of Feringhea's Forty had some little
variety about it.  Once they came across a man hiding in a grave --a thief; he had stolen 1,100
rupees from Dhunroj Seith of Parowtee. They strangled him and took the money.  They had no
patience with thieves. They killed two treasure-bearers, and got 4,000 rupees.  They came across
two bullocks "laden with copper pice," and killed the four drivers and took the money.  There
must have been half a ton of it.  I think it takes a double handful of pice to make an anna,
and 16 annas to make a rupee; and even in those days the rupee was worth only half a dollar.
Coming back over their tracks from Baroda, they had another picturesque stroke of luck:  "'The
Lohars of Oodeypore' put a traveler in their charge for safety."  Dear, dear, across this abyssmal
gulf of time we still see Feringhea's lips uncover his teeth, and through the dim haze we catch
the incandescent glimmer of his smile.  He accepted that trust, good man; and so we know what
went with the traveler.

Even Rajahs had no terrors for Feringhea; he came across an elephant-driver belonging to the
Rajah of Oodeypore and promptly strangled him.

"A total of 100 men and 5 women murdered on this expedition."

Among the reports of expeditions we find mention of victims of almost every quality and estate.

Also a prince's cook; and even the water-carrier of that sublime lord of lords and king of
kings, the Governor-General of India!  How broad they were in their tastes!  They also murdered
actors--poor wandering barnstormers.  There are two instances recorded; the first one by a
gang of Thugs under a chief who soils a great name borne by a better man --Kipling's deathless
"Gungadin":

     "After murdering 4 sepoys, going on toward Indore, met 4 strolling
     players, and persuaded them to come with us, on the pretense that we
     would see their performance at the next stage.  Murdered them at a
     temple near Bhopal."

Second instance:

     "At Deohuttee, joined by comedians.  Murdered them eastward of that
     place."

But this gang was a particularly bad crew.  On that expedition they murdered a fakeer and twelve
beggars.  And yet Bhowanee protected them; for once when they were strangling a man in a wood
when a crowd was going by close at hand and the noose slipped and the man screamed, Bhowanee
made a camel burst out at the same moment with a roar that drowned the scream; and before the
man could repeat it the breath was choked out of his body.

The cow is so sacred in India that to kill her keeper is an awful sacrilege, and even the Thugs
recognized this; yet now and then the lust for blood was too strong, and so they did kill a
few cow-keepers.  In one of these instances the witness who killed the cowherd said, "In Thuggee
this is strictly forbidden, and is an act from which no good can come.  I was ill of a fever
for ten days afterward.  I do believe that evil will follow the murder of a man with a cow.
If there be no cow it does not signify."  Another Thug said he held the cowherd's feet while
this witness did the strangling.  He felt no concern, "because the bad fortune of such a deed
is upon the strangler and not upon the assistants; even if there should be a hundred of them."

There were thousands of Thugs roving over India constantly, during many generations.  They
made Thug gee a hereditary vocation and taught it to their sons and to their son's sons.  Boys
were in full membership as early as 16 years of age; veterans were still at work at 70.  What
was the fascination, what was the impulse?  Apparently, it was partly piety, largely gain,
and there is reason to suspect that the sport afforded was the chiefest fascination of all.
Meadows Taylor makes a Thug in one of his books claim that the pleasure of killing men was
the white man's beast-hunting instinct enlarged, refined, ennobled.  I will quote the passage:

CHAPTER XLVII.

Simple rules for saving money: To save half, when you are fired by an
eager impulse to contribute to a charity, wait, and count forty.  To save
three-quarters, count sixty.  To save it all, count sixty-five.
                                  --Pudd'nhead Wilson's New Calendar.

The Thug said:

"How many of you English are passionately devoted to sporting!  Your days and months are passed
in its excitement.  A tiger, a panther, a buffalo or a hog rouses your utmost energies for
its destruction--you even risk your lives in its pursuit.  How much higher game is a Thug's!"

That must really be the secret of the rise and development of Thuggee. The joy of killing!
the joy of seeing killing done--these are traits of the human race at large.  We white people
are merely modified Thugs; Thugs fretting under the restraints of a not very thick skin of
civilization; Thugs who long ago enjoyed the slaughter of the Roman arena, and later the burning
of doubtful Christians by authentic Christians in the public squares, and who now, with the
Thugs of Spain and Nimes, flock to enjoy the blood and misery of the bullring.  We have no
tourists of either sex or any religion who are able to resist the delights of the bull-ring
when opportunity offers; and we are gentle Thugs in the hunting-season, and love to chase a
tame rabbit and kill it. Still, we have made some progress-microscopic, and in truth scarcely
worth mentioning, and certainly nothing to be proud of--still, it is progress: we no longer
take pleasure in slaughtering or burning helpless men.  We have reached a little altitude where
we may look down upon the Indian Thugs with a complacent shudder; and we may even hope for
a day, many centuries hence, when our posterity will look down upon us in the same way.

There are many indications that the Thug often hunted men for the mere sport of it; that the
fright and pain of the quarry were no more to him than are the fright and pain of the rabbit
or the stag to us; and that he was no more ashamed of beguiling his game with deceits and abusing
its trust than are we when we have imitated a wild animal's call and shot it when it honored
us with its confidence and came to see what we wanted:

     "Madara, son of Nihal, and I, Ramzam, set out from Kotdee in the
     cold weather and followed the high road for about twenty days in
     search of travelers, until we came to Selempore, where we met a very
     old man going to the east.  We won his confidence in this manner: he
     carried a load which was too heavy for his old age; I said to him,
     'You are an old man, I will aid you in carrying your load, as you
     are from my part of the country.'  He said, 'Very well, take me with
     you.'  So we took him with us to Selempore, where we slept that
     night.  We woke him next morning before dawn and set out, and at the
     distance of three miles we seated him to rest while it was still
     very dark.  Madara was ready behind him, and strangled him.  He
     never spoke a word.  He was about 60 or 70 years of age."

Another gang fell in with a couple of barbers and persuaded them to come along in their company
by promising them the job of shaving the whole crew--30 Thugs.  At the place appointed for
the murder 15 got shaved, and actually paid the barbers for their work.  Then killed them and
took back the money.

A gang of forty-two Thugs came across two Brahmins and a shopkeeper on the road, beguiled them
into a grove and got up a concert for their entertainment.  While these poor fellows were listening
to the music the stranglers were standing behind them; and at the proper moment for dramatic
effect they applied the noose.

The most devoted fisherman must have a bite at least as often as once a week or his passion
will cool and he will put up his tackle.  The tiger-sportsman must find a tiger at least once
a fortnight or he will get tired and quit.  The elephant-hunter's enthusiasm will waste away
little by little, and his zeal will perish at last if he plod around a month without finding
a member of that noble family to assassinate.

But when the lust in the hunter's heart is for the noblest of all quarries, man, how different
is the case! and how watery and poor is the zeal and how childish the endurance of those other
hunters by comparison. Then, neither hunger, nor thirst, nor fatigue, nor deferred hope, nor
monotonous disappointment, nor leaden-footed lapse of time can conquer the hunter's patience
or weaken the joy of his quest or cool the splendid rage of his desire.  Of all the hunting-passions
that burn in the breast of man, there is none that can lift him superior to discouragements
like these but the one--the royal sport, the supreme sport, whose quarry is his brother.  By
comparison, tiger-hunting is a colorless poor thing, for all it has been so bragged about.

Why, the Thug was content to tramp patiently along, afoot, in the wasting heat of India, week
after week, at an average of nine or ten miles a day, if he might but hope to find game some
time or other and refresh his longing soul with blood.  Here is an instance:

     "I (Ramzam) and Hyder set out, for the purpose of strangling
     travelers, from Guddapore, and proceeded via the Fort of Julalabad,
     Newulgunge, Bangermow, on the banks of the Ganges (upwards of 100
     miles), from whence we returned by another route.  Still no
     travelers! till we reached Bowaneegunge, where we fell in with a
     traveler, a boatman; we inveigled him and about two miles east of
     there Hyder strangled him as he stood--for he was troubled and
     afraid, and would not sit.  We then made a long journey (about 130
     miles) and reached Hussunpore Bundwa, where at the tank we fell in
     with a traveler--he slept there that night; next morning we followed
     him and tried to win his confidence; at the distance of two miles we
     endeavored to induce him to sit down--but he would not, having
     become aware of us.  I attempted to strangle him as he walked along,
     but did not succeed; both of us then fell upon him, he made a great
     outcry, 'They are murdering me!' at length we strangled him and
     flung his body into a well.  After this we returned to our homes,
     having been out a month and traveled about 260 miles.  A total of
     two men murdered on the expedition."

And here is another case-related by the terrible Futty Khan, a man with a tremendous record,
to be re-mentioned by and by:

     "I, with three others, traveled for about 45 days a distance of
     about 200 miles in search of victims along the highway to Bundwa and
     returned by Davodpore (another 200 miles) during which journey we
     had only one murder, which happened in this manner.  Four miles to
     the east of Noubustaghat we fell in with a traveler, an old man.  I,
     with Koshal and Hyder, inveigled him and accompanied him that day
     within 3 miles of Rampoor, where, after dark, in a lonely place, we
     got him to sit down and rest; and while I kept him in talk, seated
     before him, Hyder behind strangled him: he made no resistance.
     Koshal stabbed him under the arms and in the throat, and we flung
     the body into a running stream.  We got about 4 or 5 rupees each ($2
     or $2.50).  We then proceeded homewards.  A total of one man
     murdered on this expedition."

There.  They tramped 400 miles, were gone about three months, and harvested two dollars and
a half apiece.  But the mere pleasure of the hunt was sufficient.  That was pay enough.  They
did no grumbling.

Every now and then in this big book one comes across that pathetic remark: "we tried to get
him to sit down but he would not."  It tells the whole story.  Some accident had awakened the
suspicion in him that these smooth friends who had been petting and coddling him and making
him feel so safe and so fortunate after his forlorn and lonely wanderings were the dreaded
Thugs; and now their ghastly invitation to "sit and rest" had confirmed its truth.  He knew
there was no help for him, and that he was looking his last upon earthly things, but "he would
not sit."  No, not that--it was too awful to think of!

There are a number of instances which indicate that when a man had once tasted the regal joys
of man-hunting he could not be content with the dull monotony of a crimeless life after ward.
Example, from a Thug's testimony:

     "We passed through to Kurnaul, where we found a former Thug named
     Junooa, an old comrade of ours, who had turned religious mendicant
     and become a disciple and holy.  He came to us in the serai and
     weeping with joy returned to his old trade."

Neither wealth nor honors nor dignities could satisfy a reformed Thug for long.  He would throw
them all away, someday, and go back to the lurid pleasures of hunting men, and being hunted
himself by the British.

Ramzam was taken into a great native grandee's service and given authority over five villages.
"My authority extended over these people to summons them to my presence, to make them stand
or sit.  I dressed well, rode my pony, and had two sepoys, a scribe and a village guard to
attend me.  During three years I used to pay each village a monthly visit, and no one suspected
that I was a Thug!  The chief man used to wait on me to transact business, and as I passed
along, old and young made their salaam to me."

And yet during that very three years he got leave of absence "to attend a wedding," and instead
went off on a Thugging lark with six other Thugs and hunted the highway for fifteen days!--with
satisfactory results.

Afterwards he held a great office under a Rajah.  There he had ten miles of country under his
command and a military guard of fifteen men, with authority to call out 2,000 more upon occasion.
But the British got on his track, and they crowded him so that he had to give himself up. 
See what a figure he was when he was gotten up for style and had all his things on: "I was
fully armed--a sword, shield, pistols, a matchlock musket and a flint gun, for I was fond of
being thus arrayed, and when so armed feared not though forty men stood before me."

He gave himself up and proudly proclaimed himself a Thug.  Then by request he agreed to betray
his friend and pal, Buhram, a Thug with the most tremendous record in India.  "I went to the
house where Buhram slept (often has he led our gangs!) I woke him, he knew me well, and came
outside to me.  It was a cold night, so under pretence of warming myself, but in reality to
have light for his seizure by the guards, I lighted some straw and made a blaze.  We were warming
our hands.  The guards drew around us.  I said to them, 'This is Buhram,' and he was seized
just as a cat seizes a mouse.  Then Buhram said, 'I am a Thug! my father was a Thug, my grandfather
was a Thug, and I have thugged with many!'"

So spoke the mighty hunter, the mightiest of the mighty, the Gordon Cumming of his day.  Not
much regret noticeable in it.--["Having planted a bullet in the shoulder-bone of an elephant,
and caused the agonized creature to lean for support against a tree, I proceeded to brew some
coffee.  For instance, here is a little paragraph out of the record of a certain band of 193
Thugs, which has that defect:

     "Fell in with Lall Sing Subahdar and his family, consisting of nine
     persons.  Traveled with them two days, and the third put them all to
     death except the two children, little boys of one and a half years
     old."

There it stops.  What did they do with those poor little fellows?  What was their subsequent
history?  Did they purpose training them up as Thugs?  How could they take care of such little
creatures on a march which stretched over several months?  No one seems to have cared to ask
any questions about the babies.  But I do wish I knew.

One would be apt to imagine that the Thugs were utterly callous, utterly destitute of human
feelings, heartless toward their own families as well as toward other people's; but this was
not so.  Like all other Indians, they had a passionate love for their kin.  A shrewd British
officer who knew the Indian character, took that characteristic into account in laying his
plans for the capture of Eugene Sue's famous Feringhea.  He found out Feringhea's hiding-place,
and sent a guard by night to seize him, but the squad was awkward and he got away.  However,
they got the rest of the family--the mother, wife, child, and brother--and brought them to
the officer, at Jubbulpore; the officer did not fret, but bided his time: "I knew Feringhea
would not go far while links so dear to him were in my hands."  He was right.  Feringhea knew
all the danger he was running by staying in the neighborhood, still he could not tear himself
away.  The officer found that he divided his time between five villages where be had relatives
and friends who could get news for him from his family in Jubbulpore jail; and that he never
slept two consecutive nights in the same village.  The officer traced out his several haunts,
then pounced upon all the five villages on the one night and at the same hour, and got his man.

