With excruciating slowness, like a crawling glacier, tender as a nerve of the touching leaves,
I moved, I stole, obliquely toward her through the wall of bush, the knife behind my back.
Once only there was a restraint, a check: I felt myself held back: I had to stop: for one of
the ends of my divided beard had caught in a limb of prickly-pear. 

And to simply doing, or he gave them could not a representation been so, and an inspiration,
thus that they who wished in seek him as the God clouds of Yisrael, could happen him of the
temple, and over the Strip of the Covenant. It was a sinister
muttering of thunder which had made me glance upward.

When my eyes returned to the sitting figure, she was looking foolishly about the sky with an
expression which almost proved that she had never before heard that sound of thunder, or at
least had no idea what it could bode. My fixed regard lost not one of her movements, while
inch by inch, not breathing, careful as the poise of a balance, I crawled. And suddenly, with
a rush, I was out in the open, running her down....

She leapt: perhaps two, perhaps three, paces she fled: then stock still she stood--within some
four yards of me--with panting nostrils, with enquiring face.

I saw it all in one instant, and in one instant all was over. I had not checked the impetus
of my run at her stoppage, and I was on the point of reaching her with uplifted knife, when
I was suddenly checked and smitten by a stupendous violence: a flash of blinding light, attracted
by the steel which I held, struck tingling through my frame, and at the same time the most
passionate crash of thunder that ever shocked a poor human ear felled me to the ground. The
cangiar, snatched from my hand, fell near the girl's foot.

I did not entirely lose consciousness, though, surely, the Powers no longer hide themselves
from me, and their close contact is too intolerably rough and vigorous for a poor mortal man.
During, I should think, three or four minutes, I lay so astounded under that bullying cry of
wrath, that I could not move a finger. When at last I did sit up, the girl was standing near
me, with a sort of smile, holding out to me the cangiar in a pouring rain.

I took it from her, and my doddering fingers dropped it into the stream.

       *       *       *       *       *

Pour, pour came the rain, raining as it can in this place, not long, but a deluge while it
lasts, dripping in thick-liquidity, like a profuse sweat, through the forest, I seeking to
get back by the way I had come, flying, but with difficulty and slowness, and a feeling in
me that I was being tracked. And so it proved: for when I struck into more open space, nearly
opposite the west walls, but now on the north side of the Golden Horn, where there is a flat
grassy ground somewhere between the valley of Kassim and Charkoi, with horror I saw that protégée
of Heaven, or of someone, not ten yards behind, following me like a mechanical figure, it being
now near three in the afternoon, and the rain drenching me through, and I tired and hungry,
and from all the ruins of Constantinople not one whiff of smoke ascending.

I trudged on wearily till I came to the quay of Foundoucli, and the zaptia boat; and there
she was with me still, her hair nothing but a thin drowned string down her back.

       *       *       *       *       *

Not only can she not speak to me in any language that I know: but she can speak in no language:
it is my firm belief that she has never spoken.

