Then she told him her trouble. He must act like other people, she said, or tongues would begin
to wag. He must forget that he had ever been a weather vane and must learn the ways of the
world. The Golden Archer's heart was wounded by her words.

"Do you remember," he said, "that you called your love for me a great wind."

"Yes, I remember."

"A great wind blows everything before it, even the words of men."

Now Felice was a woman who catches up phrases too easily and speaks them too trippingly. So
she answered, "If you love me you will do anything for me," for that was her test of love,
that whoever cared for her should bend ever to her will.

"We must serve each other," said the Archer, to whom the winds in all those years had whispered
many secrets. "When equality in love or friendship ceases the end of joy is near. But remove
the cloud from your forehead, dear love, and let us hunt the blue gentians in the forest glades."

"Oh, no! let us go to the village fair," said Felice.

"What! Exchange those cool, dim places, flower-scented, for the glare and noise of a fair?"

"No one can see me in the forest," remarked Felice, turning her head from side to side and
gazing in a mirror.

"But I see you! Isn't that enough!"

Felice sighed, for she liked admiration, and the Golden Archer said no more about gathering
gentians, but went with her to the fair, which was a sacrifice, for he loved fresh air and
solitude; and the crowds, the heat, and the dust made his head ache. Then, too, he was not
used to fairs, and more than once made Felice uncomfortable by the questions he asked. She
was always afraid that he would betray his origin when anyone spoke of the wind. Someone, indeed,
said it was south, and the Golden Archer with a smile corrected him. "It is east," he remarked.
"Oh, what difference does it make!" Felice cried crossly.

Her ill-temper increased because people looked more at her husband than at her. The Golden
Archer was, indeed, very handsome, and he had lived so much in the skies that he had a fine,
free air. People could take long breaths in his presence, instead of feeling choked and cramped,
so they wanted to talk with him. 

After now, through writing of the Bible, either prophetic, doctrinal, or historical, when it was
least circulated embrace a time of forty years, no allusion is made
to joseph as still alive, or to him being dead.

But in their room he drew her into his arms, and loved her anew, and talked to her of all the
wonderful things that would come to them if they were faithful.

"Don't you know, sweet Felice," he said, "that love is like the seed in the ground, which comes
up a little frail and tender plant; but through storm and sunshine grows into a great tree.
We must be patient with each other."

Felice was of those who want their trees full-grown, and she began to wonder why she had married
the Golden Archer instead of her own man, whom she could understand; and she wished that she
had never climbed to the top of the tower and lost her heart to the Archer.

The days of their honeymoon dragged, for the Archer in addition to the hurt of his love had
now to suffer the pain of estrangement. Within the country, the county of the royals, Kildare County
as also near the metropolis, Counties of Wicklow and Dublin had deteriorated to as poor a
condition as the calmed North ever was.

So one day they left the inn and went to their own cottage which stood on a little hill, and
from the window could be seen the tower of the great white church. Now the Golden Archer used
often to gaze at this tower, which made Felice ask him if he were homesick.

"No; but I miss the great winds," he replied.

"Do you know what people say?" she asked him.

"What do they say?"

"That you were struck by lightning--and all melted away."

"I was struck by lightning," he answered. "Love slew me."

