THE

                        MILITARY JOURNALS

                             OF TWO

                       PRIVATE SOLDIERS,

                           1758--1775,

                              WITH

                    NUMEROUS ILLUSTRATIVE NOTES

                       TO WHICH IS ADDED,

                          A SUPPLEMENT,

                           CONTAINING

    OFFICIAL PAPERS ON THE SKIRMISHES AT LEXINGTON AND CONCORD.

                          POUGHKEEPSIE:
                  PUBLISHED BY ABRAHAM TOMLINSON,
                          AT THE MUSEUM.
                               1855.

Having been, for several years, engaged in the establishment of a Museum in Poughkeepsie, I
have, by extensive travel and research, and by the kindness of many of my fellow-citizens in
Dutchess county and elsewhere, obtained numerous objects, not only curious in themselves, but
valuable as materials for history. Among these are two manuscript Journals, kept by common
soldiers, each during a single campaign, and written at periods seventeen years apart. One
of these soldiers served in a campaign of the conflict known as the FRENCH AND INDIAN WAR,
which commenced a hundred years ago; the other soldier assisted in the siege of Boston, by
the American army, in 1775 and 1776. Believing that a faithful transcript of those Journals,
given verbatim et literatim, as recorded by the actors themselves, might have an interest for
American readers, as exhibiting the every-day life of a common soldier in those wars which
led to the founding of our republic, I have yielded to the solicitations of friends, and the
dictates of my own judgment and feelings, and in the following pages present to the public
faithful copies of those diaries.

Perceiving that much of the intrinsic value of these Journals would consist in a proper understanding
of the historical facts to which allusions are made in them, I prevailed upon Mr. LOSSING,
the well-known author of the "Pictorial Field-Book of the Revolution" to illustrate and elucidate
these diaries by explanatory notes. His name is a sufficient guaranty for their accuracy and
general usefulness; and I flatter myself that this little volume will not only amuse, but edify,
and that the useful objects aimed at in its publication will be fully attained. With this hope,
it is submitted to my fellow-citizens.

                                        ABRAHAM TOMLINSON.
  POUGHKEEPSIE MUSEUM, December, 1854.

INTRODUCTORY REMARKS.

The conflict known in America as the French and Indian War, and in Europe as the Seven Years'
War, originated in disputes between the French and English colonists, in the New World, concerning
territorial limits. For a century the colonies of the two nations had been gradually expanding
and increasing in importance. The English, more than a million in number, occupied the seaboard
from the Penobscot to the St. Mary's, a thousand miles in extent; all eastward of the great
ranges of the Alleganies, and far northward toward the St. Lawrence. The French, not more than
a hundred thousand strong, made settlements along the St. Lawrence, the shores of the great
lakes, on the Mississippi and its tributaries, and upon the borders of the gulf of Mexico.
They early founded Detroit, Kaskaskia, Vincennes, and New Orleans.

The English planted agricultural colonies--the French were chiefly engaged in traffic with
the Indians. This trade, and the operations of the Jesuit missionaries, who were usually the
self-denying pioneers of commerce in its penetration of the wilderness, gave the French great
influence over the tribes of a vast extent of country lying in the rear of the English settlements.

The ancient quarrel between the two nations, originating far back in the feudal ages, and kept
alive by subsequent collisions, burned vigorously in the bosoms of the respective colonists
in America, where it was continually fed by frequent hostilities on frontier ground. They had
ever regarded each other with extreme jealousy, for the prize before them was supreme rule
in the New World. The trading-posts and missionary-stations of the French, in the far Northwest,
and in the bosom of the dark wilderness, several hundred miles distant from the most remote
settlements on the English frontier, attracted very little attention until they formed a part
of more extensive operations. But when, after the capture of Louisburg, by the English, in
1745, the French adopted vigorous measures for opposing the extension of British power in America;
when they built strong vessels at the foot of Lake Ontario--made treaties of friendship with
powerful Indian tribes--strengthened their fort at the mouth of the Niagara river--and erected
a cordon of fortifications, more than sixty in number, between Montreal and New Orleans,--the
English were aroused to immediate and effective action in defence of the territorial limits
given them in their ancient charters. By virtue of these, they claimed dominion westward to
the Pacific ocean, south of the latitude of the north shore of Lake Erie; while the French
claimed a title to all the territory watered by the Mississippi and its tributaries, under
the more plausible plea that they had made the first explorations and settlements in that region.
The claims of the real owner--the Indian--were lost sight of in the discussion; and it was
a significant question asked by an Indian messenger of the agent of the English Ohio Company:
"Where is the Indian's land? The English claim it all on one side of the river, and the French
on the other: where does the Indian's land lie?"

The territorial question was brought to an issue when, in 1753, a company of English traders
and settlers commenced exploring the head-waters of the Ohio. The French opposed their operations
by force. George Washington was sent by the Virginia authorities to remonstrate with the French.
It was of no avail. The English determined to oppose force to force; and in the vicinity of
the now-flourishing city of Pittsburg, in western Pennsylvania, the "French and Indian War"
began. Provincial troops were raised, and armies came from England. Extensive campaigns were
planned, and attempts were made to expel the French from Lake Champlain and the southern shore
of Lake Ontario. Finally, in 1758, three armies were in motion at one time against French posts
remote from each other--Louisburg, in the extreme east; Ticonderoga, on Lake Champlain; and
Fort Du Quesne, where Pittsburg now stands. General Sir James Abercrombie commanded the expedition
against Ticonderoga, accompanied by young Lord Howe as his lieutenant. The French were under
the command of the marquis Montcalm, who was killed at Quebec the following year. The English
and provincial troops rendezvoused at the head of Lake George, went down that sheet of water,
attacked Ticonderoga, and were repulsed with great loss. It was this portion of that campaign
in which the soldier served who kept the Journal given in the succeeding pages. It is a graphic
outline picture, in few and simple words, of the daily life of a common soldier at that time.

During the campaign of 1759, Quebec was captured by the army under Wolfe; Lord Amherst, more
successful than Abercrombie, drove the French from Lake Champlain; Sir William Johnson captured
Fort Niagara; and all Canada was in virtual possession of the English, except Montreal. That
fell early in the Autumn of 1760; and the struggle for supremacy in America, between the French
and English, was ended for ever.

                                        L.

MILITARY JOURNAL FOR 1758.

