THE HERMIT OF ------ STREET. Another girl would have done so. I myself might have done so,
had I been over eighteen, or, had I not come from the country, where my natural love of romance
had been fostered by uncongenial surroundings and a repressed life under the eyes of a severe
and unsympathetic maiden aunt.

I had been in the city three weeks, and I had already received--pardon the seeming egotism
of the confession--four offers, which, considering I had no fortune and but little education
or knowledge of the great world, speaks well for something: I leave you to judge what. All
of these offers were from young men; one of them from a very desirable young man, but I had
listened to no one's addresses, because, after accepting them, I should have felt it wrong
to contemplate so unremittingly the face, which, for all its unconsciousness of myself, held
me spell-bound to an idea I neither stopped nor cared to analyze.

Why, at such a distance and under circumstances of such distraction, did it affect me so? It
was not a young face (Mr. Allison at that time was thirty-five); neither was it a cheerful
or even a satisfied one; but it was very handsome, as I have said; far too handsome, indeed,
for a romantic girl to see unmoved, and it was an enigmatic face; one that did not lend itself
to immediate comprehension, and that, to one of my temperament, was a fatal attraction, especially
as enough was known of his more than peculiar habits to assure me that character, rather than
whim, lay back of his eccentricities.

But first let me explain more fully my exact position in regard to this gentleman on that day
in early spring, destined to be such a memorable one in my history.

I had never seen him, save in the surreptitious way I have related, and he had never seen me.
This was but natural, for it was one of the few mansions in the great city with an old-style
lawn about it. Besides, it had a peculiarly secluded and secretive look, which even to my unaccustomed
eyes, gave it an appearance strangely out of keeping with the expensive but otherwise ordinary
houses visible in all other directions.

The grounds which, were more or less carefully looked after, were separated from the street
by a brick wall, surmounted by urns, from which drooped the leafless tendrils of some old vines;
but in the rear, that is, in our direction, the line of separation was marked by a high iron
fence, in which, to my surprise, I saw a gate, which, though padlocked now, marked old habits
of intercourse, interesting to contemplate, between the two houses. Through this fence I caught
glimpses of the green turf and scattered shrubs of a yard which had once sloped away to the
avenues on either side, and, more interesting still, those three windows whose high-drawn shades
offered such a vivid contrast to the rest of the house.

In one of these windows stood a table, with a chair before it. I had as yet seen no one in
the chair, but I had noted that the table was heavily covered with papers and books, and judged
that the room was a library and the table that of a busy man engaged in an endless amount of
study and writing.

The Vandykes, whom I had questioned on the matter, were very short in their replies. Not because
the subject was uninteresting, or one they in any way sought to avoid, but because the invitations
to a great party had just come in, and no other topic was worthy their discussion.

After I came to see him (as I did that very evening), I could ask no further questions concerning
him. The beauty of his countenance, the mystery of his secluded life, the air of melancholy
and mental distress which I imagined myself to detect in his manner--he often used to sit for
minutes together with his eyes fixed on vacancy and his whole face expressive of the bitterest
emotion--had wrought this spell upon my imagination, and I could no more mingle his name with
that of the ordinary men and women we discussed than I could confound his solitary and expressive
figure with the very proper but conventional forms of the simpering youths who followed me
in parlors or begged to be allowed the honor of a dance at the balls I attended with the Vandykes.
He occupied an unique place in my regard, and this without another human being's knowledge.
I wish I could say without my own; but, alas! I have promised myself to be true in all the
details of this history, and, child as I was, I could not be ignorant of the fascination which
held me for hours at my window when I should have been in bed and asleep.

But let me hasten to the adventure which put an end to my dreams by launching me into realities
of a still more absorbing nature. I was not very well one day, and even Mrs. Vandyke acknowledged
that it would not do for me to take the long-planned drive to Tuxedo. So, as I would not let
any one else miss this pleasure on my account, I had been left alone in the house, and, not
being ill enough for bed, had spent the most of the morning in my window--not because he was
in his; I was yet too timid, and, let me hope, too girlishly modest, to wish to attract in
any way his attention--but because the sun shone there, and I was just chilly enough to enjoy
its mingled light and heat. Thus it was I came to notice the following petty occurrence. In
the yard of the house next to that occupied by Mr. Allison was kept a tame rabbit, which often
took advantage of a hole it had made for itself under the dividing fence to roam over the neighboring
lawn. On this day he was taking his%c-customed ramble, when something startled him, and he
ran, not back to his hole, but to our fence, through which he squeezed himself, evidently to
his own great discomfort; for once in our yard, and under the refuge of a small bush he found
there, nothing would lure him back, though every effort was made to do so, both by the small
boy to whom he belonged, and the old serving-man or gardener, who was the only other person
besides Mr. Allison whom I ever saw on the great place. Watching them, I noted three things:
first, that it was the child who first thought of opening the gate; secondly, that it was the
serving-man who brought the key; and, thirdly, that after the gate had been opened and the
rabbit recovered, the gate had not been locked again; for, just as the man was about to do
this, a call came from the front, of so imperative a nature, that he ran forward, without readjusting
the padlock, and did not come back, though I watched for him in idle curiosity for a good half-hour.
This was in the morning. To shriek and throw up my window was the work of a moment, but I attracted
no attention by these means, and, what was worse, saw, with feelings which may be imagined,
that nothing I could do would be likely to arouse Mr. Allison to an immediate sense of his
danger, for not only were the windows shut between us, but he was lost in one of his brooding
spells, which to all appearance made him quite impassible to surrounding events.

"Will no one see? Will no one warn him?" I cried out, in terror of the flames burning so brightly
in the room above him. Seemingly not. To see him sitting there so much at his ease, and to
behold at the same moment the destruction going on so rapidly over his head, affected me more
than I can tell, and casting to the winds all selfish considerations, I sprang through the
gate so providentially left ajar and knocked with all my might on a door which opened upon
a side porch not many feet away from the spot where he sat so unconcernedly.

The moment I had done this I felt like running away again, but hearing his advancing step,
summoned up my courage and stood my ground bravely, determined to say one word and run.

But when the door opened and I found myself face to face with the man whose face I knew only
too well, that word, important as it was, stuck in my throat; for, agitated as I was, both
by my errand and my sudden encounter with one I had dreamed about for weeks, he seemed to be
much more so, though by other reasons--by far other reasons--than myself. He was so moved--was
it by the appearance of a strange young girl on his doorstep, or was it at something in my
face or manner, or some-thing in his thoughts to which that face or manner gave a shock?--that
my petty fears for the havoc going on above seemed to pale into insignificance before the emotions
called up by my presence.

The sound which left his lips as these words slipped from mine struck me speechless again.
Appalling as the cry "Fire!" is at all times and to all men, it roused in this man at this
time something beyond anything my girlish soul had ever imagined of terror or dismay. But half-way
down the hall he looked back at me, and again I saw that look on his face which had greeted
my unexpected appearance in the doorway.

Meanwhile, the alarm had spread, and more than one cry arose from the houses in the rear. I
could hear feet running over the walks without, and finally a knock on the door I was leaning
against, followed by the cry:

"Let us in! Fire! fire!"

But I neither moved nor answered. I was afraid to be found there, crouching alone in a bachelor's
residence, but I was equally afraid of disobeying him, for his voice had been very imperious
when he commanded me not to let any one in; and I was too young to brave such a nature, even
if I had wished to, which I do not think I did.

"He is overhead! See him--see him!" I now heard shouted from the lawn. "He has dragged the
curtains down! He is showering the walls with water! Look--look! how wildly he works! He will
be burnt himself. Ah! ah!" All of which gave me strange thrills, and filled the darkness which
encompassed me with startling pictures, till I could hardly stand the stress or keep myself
from rushing to his assistance.

While my emotions were at their height a bell rang. It was the front doorbell, and it meant
the arrival of the engines.

"Oh!" thought I, "what shall I do now? If I run out I shall encounter half the neighborhood
in the back yard; if I stay here how shall I be able to meet the faces of the firemen who will
come rushing in?"

But I was not destined to suffer from either contingency. He appeared calm now, and without
any show of emotion proceeded at once to the front door, which he opened.

What passed between him and the policeman whose voice I heard in the hall, I do not know. I
heard them go up-stairs and presently come down again, and I finally heard the front door close.
Then I began to make an effort to gain some control over my emotions, for I knew he had not
forgotten me, and that he soon would be in the vestibule at my side.

But it was impossible for me to hope to meet him with an unconcerned air. The excitement I
was under and the cold--for I was dressed lightly and the vestibule was chilly--had kept me
trembling so, that my curls had fallen all about my cheeks, and one had fallen so low that
it hung in shameful disorder to my very waist. This alone was enough to disconcert me, but
had my heart been without its secret--a secret I was in mortal terror of disclosing in my confusion--I
could have risen above my embarrassment and let simple haste been my excuse. As it was, I must
have met him with a pleading aspect, very much like that of a frightened child, for his countenance
visibly changed as he approached me, and showed quite an extraordinary kindness, if not contrition,
as he paused in the narrow vestibule with the blazing lamp held low in his hand. I fear I have
frightened you sorely, but---" And here, to my astonishment, he found nothing to say, moved
overmuch by some strong feeling, or checked in his apologies by some great embarrassment.

Astonished, for he did not look like a man who could be lightly disturbed, I glowed a fiery
red and put my hand out towards the door. Instantly he found speech again.

"One moment," said he. "I feel that I ought to explain the surprise, the consternation, which
made me forget. You know this is not my house, that I am here in trust for another, that the
place is full of rare treasures."

Had he stopped again? I was in such a state of inner perturbation that I hardly knew whether
he had ceased to speak or I to hear. Something, I did not know what, had shaken my very life's
center--something in the shape of dread, yet so mixed with delight that my hand fell from the
knob I had been blindly groping for and sank heavily at my side. His eyes had not left my face.

"May I ask whom I have the honor of addressing?" he asked, in a tone I might better never have
heard from his lips.

To this I must make reply. Shuddering, for I felt something uncanny in the situation, but speaking
up, notwithstanding, with the round and vibrating tones I had inherited from my mother, I answered,
with the necessary simplicity:

"I am Delight Hunter, a country girl, sir, visiting the Vandykes."

A flash that was certainly one of pleasure lighted up his face with a brilliance fatal to my
poor, quivering girl's heart.

"Allow me, Miss Hunter, to believe that you will not bring down the indignation of my neighbors
upon me by telling them of my carelessness and indiscretion." A great love for the man by whose
face I had been moved for weeks and a great dread--well, I cannot explain my dread, not as
I felt it that night. It was formless and without apparent foundation; but it would no more
leave me than my uneasy memory of the fierce instinct which had led him at such a critical
instant to close his door against all help, though in so doing he had subjected a young girl
to many minutes of intense embarrassment and mortifying indecision.

Mr. Allison loved me--oh, what pride in the thought!--but Mr. Allison had a secret, or why
did he so often break off abruptly in some telltale speech and drop his eyes, which were otherwise
always upon me. Something not easy to understand lay between us--something which he alternately
defied and succumbed to, something which kept him from being quite the good man I had pictured
myself as marrying. Why I was so certain of this latter fact, I cannot say. Perhaps my instinct
was keen; perhaps the signs of goodness are so unmistakable that even a child feels their want
where her heart leans hardest.

Yet everything I heard of him only tended to raise him in my estimation. After he became an
habitué of the house, Mrs. Vandyke grew more communicative in regard to him. He was eccentric,
of course, but his eccentricities were such as did him credit. One thing she told me made a
lasting impression on me. Come and live in that house--at least for a little time, till I can
arrange for you a brighter and a happier home--come and be my wife."

It was sudden, it was all but unlooked-for, and like all his expressions of feeling, frenzied
rather than resolute. But it was a declaration that met my most passionate longings, and in
the elation it brought I forgot for the moment the doubts it called up. Otherwise I had been
a woman rather than a girl, and this tale had never been written.

"Go away?"

"Yes, I am going away. Mrs. Ransome and her daughter are coming back and I am going away. Will
you go with me?"

With what intensity he spoke, yet with what hardness. I quivered while I listened, yet I made
no move to withdraw from him. Had he asked me to step with him from the housetop I should hardly
have refused while his heart throbbed so wildly against mine and his eyes lured me on with
such a promise of ecstasy.

"You will?" How peremptory he could be. "You will?" How triumphant, also.

"Such an estimable man! such an old neighbor! so domestic in his tastes! and, oh! so wise to
find out and make his own the slyest and most bewildering little beauty that has come into
New York this many a season!" These were some of her words, and, though pleasing at the time,
they made me think deeply--much more deeply than I wished to, after I went upstairs to my room.

"Estimable! an old neighbor! domestic in his tastes!" Had she said: "Handsome! masterful in
his air and spirit! a man to make a girl forget the real end of life and think only of present
pleasure!" I should not have had such a fierce reaction. But estimable! Was he estimable? I
tried to cry out yes! I tried to keep down the memory of that moment when, with a dozen passions
suddenly let loose (one of them fear), he strode by me and locked the door against all help,
under an impetus he had tried in vain to explain. Nothing would quiet the still, small voice
speaking in my breast, or give to the moment that unalloyed joy which belongs to a young girl's
betrothal. I was afraid. Why?

Mr. Allison never came in the evening, another of his peculiarities. Other men did, but what
were other men to me now? This night I pleaded weariness (Mrs. Vandyke understood me), and
remained in my room. I wanted to study the face of my lover under the new conditions. Was he
in his old seat? Yes. And would he read, as usual, or study? No. He had thoughts of his own
to-night, engrossing enough to hold him enthralled without the aid of his ordinary occupations;
thoughts, thoughts of me, thoughts which should have cleared his brow and made his face a study
of delight to me. But was it so? Alas! I had never seen it so troubled; lit with gleams of
hope or happiness by spells, but mostly sunk in depths of profoundest contemplation, which
gave to it a melancholy from which I shrank, and not the melancholy one longs to comfort and
allay. What was on his mind? What was in his heart? Something he feared to have noted, for
suddenly he rose with a start, and, for the first time since my eyes had sought that window,
pulled down the shades and thus shut himself out from my view altogether. Was it a rebuke to
my insistent watchfulness? or the confession of a reticent nature fearing to be surprised in
its moment of weakness? I ought to know--I would know. To-morrow I would ask him if there was
any sorrow in his life which a confiding girl ought to be made acquainted with before she yielded
him her freedom. But the pang which pierced me at the thought, proved that I feared his answer
too much to ever question him.

I am thus explicit in regard to my thoughts and feelings at this time, that I may more fully
account to you for what I did later.

My aunt, who seemed quite satisfied with Mrs. Vandyke's explanations, promised to be present
at the ceremony, which was set at an alarmingly near day. My lovers on the contrary--by whom
I mean the half dozen men who had been attentive to me--refused to attend, so I had one care
less; for the lack of time--perhaps I should say my lack of means--precluded me from obtaining
a very elaborate wedding dress, and I did not choose to have them see me appear on such an
occasion in any less charming guise than I had been accustomed to wear at party or play. He
did not care what I wore. When I murmured something about the haste with which he had hurried
things forward, and how it was likely to interfere with what most brides considered necessary
to the proper celebration of such an event, he caught me to his breast with a feverish gesture
and vowed that if he could have his way, there would be no preparation at all, but just a ceremony
before a minister which would make me his without the least delay.

Men may enjoy such precipitation, but women do not. I was so troubled by what seemed the meagerness
of my wardrobe and the lack of everything I had been accustomed to see brides bring their husbands,
that I asked Mrs. Vandyke one day if Mr. Allison was a rich man. She answered, with a smile:
"No, my dear, not as we New-Yorkers count riches. Having the power of attorney for Mrs. Ransome,
he handles a good deal of money; but very little of it is his own, though to you his five-thousand-a-year
salary may seem a fortune."

This was so much Greek to me, though I did understand he was not considered wealthy.

"Then my fawn-colored cloth will not be so very inappropriate for a wedding dress?" I asked.

"I wish you could see yourself in it," she said, and that satisfied me.

We were married simply, but to the sound of wonderful music, in a certain little church not
far from ------ Street. My aunt was there and my four lovers, though they had said, one and
all, they would not come. But I saw nothing, realized nothing, save the feverish anxiety of
my bridegroom, who, up to the minute the final vows were uttered, seemed to be on a strain
of mingled emotions, among which I seemed to detect that old one of fear. A pitiful outlook
for an adoring bride, you will think, who, without real friends to interest themselves in her,
allows herself to be pushed to a brink she is wise enough to see, but not strong enough to
recoil from. Yes, but its full pathos did not strike me then. I only felt anxious to have the
ceremony over, to know that the die was cast beyond my own powers of retraction; and when the
words of the benediction at last fell upon my ears, it was with real joy I turned to see if
they brought him as much rapture as they did me. Happily for that moment's satisfaction they
did, and if a friend had been there with eyes to see and heart to feel, there would have been
nothing in the air of open triumph with which Mr. Allison led me down the aisle to awaken aught
but hope and confidence. My own hopes rose at the sight, and when at the carriage door he turned
to give me a smile before he helped me in, nothing but the obstinacy of my nature prevented
me from accepting the verdict of my acquaintances, "That for a little country girl, with nothing
but her good looks to recommend her, Delight Hunter had done remarkably well in the one short
month she had been in the city." On the way he attempted to reconcile me to what he feared
might strike me as dreary in the prospect.

"The house is partially closed," said he, "and many of the rooms are locked. Even the great
drawing-rooms have an uninhabited look, which will make them anything but attractive to a lover
of sunshine and comfort; but the library is cheerful, and in that you can sit and imagine yourself
at home till lean wind up my business affairs and make possible the trip upon which I have
set my heart."

"Does that mean," I faintly ventured, "that you will leave me to spend much of my time alone
in that great echoing house?"

"No," was his quick response, "you shall spend no time there alone. When I go out you shall
go too, and if business takes me where you cannot accompany me I will give you money to shop
with, which will keep you pleasantly occupied till I can rejoin you. Oh, we will make it a
happy honeymoon, in spite of all obstacles, my darling. I should be a wretch if I did not make
it happy for you."

Here was my opportunity. I trembled as I thought of it, and stammered quite like a foolish
child as I softly suggested:

"For me? Is it not likely to be a happy one for you?"

I will not give his answer; it was a passionate one, but it was not convincing. Pondering it
and trying to persuade myself he alluded only to business cares and anxieties, I let the minute
slip by and entered the house with doubts unsolved, but with no further effort to understand
him. Remember, he was thirty-five and I but a chit of eighteen.

In the hall stood the old serving-man with whose appearance I was already so familiar. He had
a smile on his face, which formed my only welcome. He also had a napkin over his arm.

Mr. Allison had already told me that he intended to make no changes in his domestic arrangements
for the few days we were likely to occupy this house. I had therefore expected that our meals
would be served from the restaurant, and that Ambrose (the waiting-man) would continue to be
the only other occupant of the house. But I was not sure whether the table would be still set
for four, or whether he would waive this old custom now that he had a wife to keep him company
at the once lonely board. I was eager to know, and as soon as I could lay aside my hat in the
little reception-room, I turned my face towards the dining-room door, where my husband stood
awaiting me with a bunch of great white roses in his hand.

"Sweets to the sweet," said he, with a smile that sunk down deep into my heart and made my
eyes moisten with joy. In the hackneyed expression there rang nothing false. He was proud and
he was glad to see me enter that dining-room as his wife. What we ate I have no idea of. I
only remember that in every course there was enough for four.

As we rose, I was visited by a daring impulse. Ambrose had poured me out a glass of wine, which
stood beside my plate undisturbed. As I stooped to recover my flowers again, I saw this glass,
and at once lifted it towards him, crying:

"To Mrs. Ransome and her daughter, who did not return to enjoy our wedding-breakfast."

He recoiled. Yes, I am sure he gave a start back, though he recovered himself immediately and
responded with grave formality to my toast.

"Does he not like Mrs. Ransome?" I thought. "Is the somewhat onerous custom he maintains here
the result of a sense of duty rather than of liking?"

My curiosity was secretly whetted by the thought. But with a girl's lightness I began to talk
of other things, and first of the house, which I now for the first time looked at with anything
like seeing eyes.

He was patient with me, but I perceived he did not enjoy this topic any more than the former
one. "It is not ours," he kept saying; "remember that none of these old splendors are ours."

"They are more ours than they are Mrs. Ransome's, just now," I at last retorted, with one of
my girlhood's saucy looks. "At all events, I am going to play that it is ours tonight," I added,
dancing away from him towards the long drawing-rooms where I hoped to come upon a picture of
the absent lady of the house.

"Delight "--he was quite peremptory now--

"I must ask you not to enter those rooms, however invitingly the doors may stand open. It is
a notion, a whim of mine, that you do not lend your beauty to light up that ghostly collection
of old pictures and ugly upholstery, and if you feel like respecting my wishes----"

"But may I not stand in the doorway?" I asked, satisfied at having been able to catch a glimpse
of a full-length portrait of a lady who could be no other than Mrs. Ransome. "See! my shadow
does not even fall across the carpet. I won't do the room any harm, and I am sure that Mrs.
Ransome's picture won't do me any."

"Come! come away!" he cried; and humoring his wishes, I darted away, this time in the direction
of the dining-room and Ambrose. "My dear," remonstrated my husband, quickly following me, "what
has brought you back here?"

"I want to see," said I, "what Ambrose does with the food we did not eat. Such a lot of it!"

It was childish, but then I was a child and a nervous one, too. Perhaps he considered this,
for, while he was angry enough to turn pale, he did not attempt any rebuke, but left it to
Ambrose to say:

"Mr. Allison is very good, ma'am. This food, which is very nice, is given each day to a poor
girl who comes for it, and takes it home to her parents. I put it in this basket, and Mr. Allison
gives it to the girl when she calls for it in the evening."

"You are good," I cried, turning to my husband with a fond look. Did he think the em-phasis
misplaced, or did he consider it time for me to begin to put on more womanly ways, for drawing
me again into the library, he made me sit beside him on the big lounge, and after a kiss or
two, demanded quietly, but oh, how peremptorily:

"Delight, why do you so often speak of Mrs. Ransome? Have you any reason for it? Has any one
talked to you about her, that her name seems to be almost the only one on your lips in the
few, short minutes we have been married?"

I did not know why this was so, myself, so I only shook my head and sighed, repentingly. Then,
seeing that he would have some reply, I answered with what naiveté I could summon up at the moment:

"I think it was because you seem so ashamed of your devotion to them. I love to see your embarrassment,
founded as it is upon the most generous instincts."

His hand closed over mine with a fierceness that hurt me.

"Let us talk of love," he whispered. "Delight, this is our wedding-day." "Why do I not hear
his feet overhead?" I asked myself. "That is the only room he has given me leave to enter.
Does his task take him elsewhere?" Seemingly so, for, though he was gone a good half hour,
he did not enter the room above. Why should I think of so small a matter? It would be hard
to say; perhaps I was afraid of being left in the great rooms alone; perhaps I was only curious;
but I asked myself a dozen times before he reappeared, "Where is he gone, and why does he stay
away so long?" This I should not consider worth mentioning if I had not observed the same hesitancy
follow the same disappearance up-stairs on the succeeding night. It was the only time in the
day when he really left me, and, when he came back, he was not like himself for a good half
hour or more. "I will not displease him with questions," I decided; "but some day I will find
my own way into those lofts above. I shall never be at rest till I do."

What I expected to find there is as much a mystery to my understanding as my other doubts and
fears. I hardly think I expected to find anything but a desk of papers, or a box with money
in it or other valuables. Still the idea that something on the floor above had power to shadow
my husband's face, even in the glow of his first love for me, possessed me so completely that,
when he fell asleep one evening on the library lounge, I took the opportunity of stealing away
and mounting the forbidden staircase to the third floor. I remembered that the windows of the
fourth story were all boarded up, and asked myself why this had been done when the lower ones
had been left open. I was young, but I had heard of occupations which could only be entered
into by a man secretly. Did he amuse himself with forbidden tasks in that secluded place above,
or was I but exaggerating facts which might have their basis simply in a quondam bachelor's
desire for solitude and a quiet smoke. "I will follow him up some night," thought I, "and see
if I cannot put an end at once to my unworthy fears and unhappy suspicions." But I never did;
something happened very soon to prevent me. Astonished, for I was under no tree, under nothing
indeed but the blue of heaven, I looked about for the object that had struck me. As I did so,
I perceived my husband in his window, but his eyes, while upon me, did not see me, for no change
passed over him as I groped about in the grass. "In one of his contemplative moods," thought
I, continuing my search.

And underneath, these words:

"This is the twenty-fifth attempt I have made to attract attention to our unhappy fate. I can
make but two more. There are but two beads left of Theresa's necklace."

"What is the matter, ma'am? Are you ill?" It was Ambrose; I knew his voice.

Crushing the paper in my hand, I tried to look up; but it was in vain. The sting of sudden
and complete disillusion had struck me to the heart; I knew my husband to be a villain.

CHAPTER IV. I LEARN HYPOCRISY.

Only eighteen, but from that moment, a woman. Sunk in horror as I was, I yet had wit enough
to clap my hands to my head and say I had been dazzled by the sun.

Ambrose, who, in the week I had been with them, had shown himself delighted with the change
my coming had made in the house, looked alarmed at this and wanted to call Mr. Allison; but
I forbade him, and said I would go in by myself, which I did under a stress of will-power rarely
exercised, I dare believe, by a girl so young and so miserable.

"What shall I say to him? how shall I meet him? how can I hide my knowledge and act as if this
thing had never been?" If he were villain enough to keep a woman, and that woman the rightful
owner of the property he was himself enjoying, in a prison he had made for her in her own house,
then he was villain enough to strangle the one who had discovered this fact, were she the cherished
darling of his seared and calculating heart. I was afraid of him now that I knew him, yet I
never thought of flying his presence or revealing his crime. He was, villain or no villain,
my husband, and nothing could ever undo that fact or make it true that I had never loved him.

A week! What did he mean? Leave his prisoners--alas, I understood his journeys to the top of
the house now--and go away to Europe? I felt myself grow livid at the thought, and caught a
spray of lilac from the table where I stood and held it to my face.

"Will your business affairs warrant it?" I asked. "Are you sure Mrs. Ransome's affairs will
not suffer by your absence?" Then, as I saw him turn white, I made a ghastly effort, happily
hid by the flowers I held pressed against my face, and suggested, laughingly, "How, if she
should come back after your departure! would she meet the greeting she deserves?"

He was half the room away from me, but I heard the click of subdued passion in his throat,
and turned sick almost to the point of fainting. "It is four days since you mentioned Mrs.
Ransome's name," he said. "When we are gone from here you must promise that it shall never
again pass your lips. Mrs. Ransome is not a good woman, Delight."

It was a lie yet his manner of speaking it, and the look with which he now approached me, made
me feel helpless again, and I made haste to rush from the room, ostensibly to prepare for our
trip down town, in order to escape my own weakness and gain a momentary self-possession before
we faced the outside world. Only eighteen years old and confronted by such a diabolical problem!

CHAPTER V. THE STOLEN KEY.

I Was too young to reason in those days. Had I not been, had I been able to say to myself that
no act requiring such continued precaution could take place in the heart of a great city without
ultimate, if not instant, detection, instinct would still have assured me that what I read
was true, however improbable or unheard of it might seem. That the recognition of this fact
imposed upon me two almost irreconcilable duties I was slower to perceive. "The idea! that
house!" she cried. "I never thought you a girl to have nervous fancies. Why, it is the most
matter-of-fact old mansion in the city. All its traditions are of the most respectable kind;
no skeleton in those closets! By the way, my dear, has Mr. Allison shown you any of the curious
old things those rooms must contain?"

I managed to stammer out a reply, "Mr. Allison does not consider that his rights extend so
far. I have never crossed the drawing-room floor."

"Well! that is carrying honor to an extreme. I am afraid I should not be able to suppress my
curiosity to that extent. Is he afraid of the old lady returning unexpectedly and catching him?"

I could not echo her laugh; I could not even smile; I could only pucker up my brows as if angry.

"Everything is kept in shape, so that if she does return she will find the house comfortable,"
I said; then, with a rising sense of having by this speech suggested a falsehood, I hastily
dropped the topic, and, with an entire change of manner, remarked, airily:

"Mrs. Ransome must have gone off very suddenly, to leave everything so exposed in a house as
splendid as that. Most people, however rich, see to their choice things more carefully."

She rose to the bait. "Mrs. Ransome is a queer woman. Her things are of but little account
to her; to save her daughter from a moment's pain she would part with the house itself, let
alone the accumulations it contains. That is why she left the country so suddenly."

I waited a moment under the pretense of admiring a locket she wore, then I suggested, quietly:

"My husband told you that?"

The answer was as careless as the speaker.

"Oh, I don't know who told me. It's five years ago now, but every one at the time understood
that she was angry, because some one mentioned blindness before her daughter. Mrs. Ransome
had regarded it as a religious duty to raise her daughter in ignorance of her affliction. When
she found she could not do so among her friends and acquaintances, she took her away to a strange
land. It is the only tradition, which is not commonplace, which belongs to the family. Let
us go up and see my new gowns. I have had two come home from Arnold's since you went away."

I thought the gowns would keep a minute longer. "Did Mrs. Ransome say good-by to her friends?"
I asked. "Somehow this matter strikes me as being very romantic."

"Oh, that shows what a puss you are. No, Mrs. Ransome did not say good-by to her friends, that
is, not to us. She just went, leaving everything in your husband's charge, who certainly has
acquitted himself of the obligation most religiously. And now will you see the gowns?" So,
together with a maid she insisted upon sending with me, I made my way through the skylight
on to the roof, and so into full view of the neighboring house-tops. One might, by a great
effort, fling up a bead out of this funnel-shaped opening, but, even to my limited sense of
mechanics, the chances seemed very unfavorable towards it doing much more than roll over the
spacious roof into the huge gutters surrounding it.

Yet, if it chose to bound, it might clear the coping and fall, as one had fallen, on the devoted
head of a person walking on the lawn below. All this I saw at a glance, and then, sick and
dizzy, I crept back, and, with but little apology for my abruptness, took leave of Mrs. Vandyke
and left the house. Oh, the rush of feeling overwhelming me as I held it in my hand! Would
he miss it if I carried it off? Would I be able to return to the house, see what I wanted to
see, and get back in time to restore it before he wanted his vest? It was early yet, and he
was very busy; I might succeed, and if I failed, and he detected his loss, why I alone would
be the sufferer; and was I not a sufferer now? My emotions were indescribable, but I preserved
as sedate an appearance as possible, and was able to account for my return in a natural enough
way to Ambrose when he opened the door for me. To brave his possible curiosity by going up-stairs,
required a still greater effort; but the thought that my intentions were pure and my daring
legitimate, sustained me in the ordeal, and I ran, singing, up the first flight, glad that
Ambrose had no better ear for music than to be pleased with what he probably considered an
evidence of happiness on the part of his young mistress.

"I did not know Mr. Allison was married," were her first words.

"Madame," said I, "I did not know we were the guests of a lady who chooses to live in retirement."
And opening my vinaigrette, I took out the bead and the little note which had enwrapped it.
"This was my first warning that my husband was not what I had been led to consider him," I
murmured. "Mrs. Ransome, I am in need of almost as much pity as yourself. I have been married
just six days."

She gave a cry, looked me wildly in the face, and then sank upon her knees, lifting up thanks
to heaven. "Twenty-four of these notes," said she; "have I written, and flung upward through
that lofty skylight, weighted by the beads he left wound about my darling daughter's neck.
This one only has brought me the least response. Does he know? Is he willing that you should
come up here?"

"I have come at the risk of my life," I quietly answered. "He does not know that I have surprised
his secret. He would kill me if he did. Madame, I want to free you, but I want to do it without
endangering him. I am his wife, and three hours ago I loved him."

Her face, which had turned very pale, approached mine with a look I hardly expected to encounter
there. "I understand," she said; "I comprehend devotion; I have felt it for my daughter. Else
I could not have survived the wrong of this incarceration, and my forcible severance from old
associations and friends. I loved her, and since the knowledge of her affliction, and the still
worse knowledge that she had been made the victim of a man's greed to an extent not often surpassed
in this world, would have made her young life wretched without securing the least alleviation
to our fate, I have kept both facts from her, and she does not know that closed doors mean
bondage any more than she knows that unrelieved darkness means blindness. She is absolutely
ignorant that there is such a thing as light." But he has one spark of grace in him. He has
never forgotten that we needed bread and clothes. He has waited on us himself, and never have
we suffered from physical want. Therefore, he may not object now. He may feel that he has enriched
himself sufficiently to let us go free, and if I must give my oath to let the past go without
explanation, why I am ready, my dear; nothing can undo it now, and I am grown too old to want
money except for her." Shall we undertake to do his for him?

And, with a sudden access of fear, caused by my dread of meeting his eyes with this hidden
knowledge between us, I hastened out and locked the door behind me.

I CANNOT enter into the feelings of this dreadful time. I do not know if I loved or hated the
man I had undertaken to save. I only know I was determined to bring light out of darkness in
a way that would compromise nobody, possibly not even myself. But to do this I must dazzle
him into giving me a great pleasure.

Perhaps he was glad to find me given over to folly at a time when he was waiting for a miracle
to release him from the net of crime in which he had involved himself; perhaps he merely thought
it would please me, and aid him to thus strengthen our position in the social world before
taking our flight to a foreign land; but whatever lay at the bottom of his amenity, he gave
me carte blanche that night for an entertainment that should embrace all his friends and mine
and some of Mrs. Vandyke's. So I saw that doubt removed.

