THOMAS WINGFOLD, CURATE.

By George MacDonald, LL.D.

IN THREE VOLUMES.

VOL III.

CHAPTER I.

AFTER THE SERMON.

As the sermon drew to a close, and the mist of his emotion began to disperse, individual faces
of his audience again dawned out on the preacher's ken. Mr. Drew's head was down. As I have
always said, certain things he had been taught in his youth, and had practised in his manhood,
certain mean ways counted honest enough in the trade, had become to him, regarded from the
ideal point of the divine in merchandize--such a merchandize, namely, as the share the son
of man might have taken in buying and selling, had his reputed father been a shop-keeper instead
of a carpenter--absolutely hateful, and the memory of them intolerable. Nor did it relieve
him much to remind himself of the fact, that he knew not to the full the nature of the advantages
he took, for he knew that he had known them such as shrunk from the light, not coming thereto
to be made manifest. He was now doing his best to banish them from his business, and yet they
were a painful presence to his spirit--so grievous to be borne, that the prospect held out
by the preacher of an absolute and final deliverance from them by the indwelling presence of
the God of all living men and true merchants, was a blessedness unspeakable. Small was the
suspicion in the Abbey Church of Olaston that morning, that the well-known successful man of
business was weeping. Who could once have imagined another reason for the laying of that round,
good-humoured, contented face down on the book-board, than pure drowsiness from lack of work-day
interest! Yet there was a human soul crying out after its birthright. Oh, to be clean as a
mountain-river! clean as the air above the clouds, or on the middle seas! as the throbbing
aether that fills the gulf betwixt star and star!--nay, as the thought of the Son of Man himself,
who, to make all things new and clean, stood up against the old battery of sin-sprung suffering,
withstanding and enduring and stilling the recoil of the awful force wherewith his Father had
launched the worlds, and given birth to human souls with wills that might become free as his own!

While Wingfold had been speaking in general terms, with the race in his mind's, and the congregation
in his body's eye, he had yet thought more of one soul, with its one crime and its intolerable
burden, than all the rest: Leopold was ever present to him, and while he strove to avoid absorption
in a personal interest however justifiable, it was of necessity that the thought of the most
burdened sinner he knew should colour the whole of his utterance. At times indeed he felt as
if he were speaking to him immediately--and to him only; at others, although then he saw her
no more than him, that he was comforting the sister individually, in holding out to her brother
the mighty hope of a restored purity. And when once more his mind could receive the messages
brought home by his eyes, he saw upon Helen's face the red sunset of a rapt listening. True
it was already fading away, but the eyes had wept, the glow yet hung about cheek and forehead,
and the firm mouth had forgotten itself into a tremulous form, which the stillness of absorption
had there for the moment fixed.

But even already, although he could not yet read it upon her countenance, a snake had begun
to lift its head from the chaotic swamp which runs a creek at least into every soul, the rudimentary
desolation, a remnant of the time when the world was without form and void. And the snake said:
"Why, then, did he not speak like that to my Leopold? Why did he not comfort him with such
a good hope, well-becoming a priest of the gentle Jesus? Or, if he fancied he must speak of
confession, why did he not speak of it in plain honest terms, instead of suggesting the idea
of it so that the poor boy imagined it came from his own spirit, and must therefore be obeyed
as the will of God?"

So said the snake, and by the time Helen had walked home with her aunt, the glow had sunk from
her soul, and a gray wintry mist had settled down upon her spirit. And she said to herself
that if this last hope in George should fail her, she would not allow the matter to trouble
her any farther; she was a free woman, and as Leopold had chosen other counsellors, had thus
declared her unworthy of confidence, and, after all that she had suffered and done for love
of him, had turned away from her, she would put money in her purse, set out for France or Italy,
and leave him to the fate, whatever it might be, which his new advisers and his own obstinacy
might bring upon him. Was the innocent bound to share the shame of the guilty? Had she not
done enough? Would even her father require more of her than she had already done and endured?

When, therefore, she went into Leopold's room, and his eyes sought her from the couch, she
took no notice that he had got up and dressed while she was at church; and he knew that a cloud
had come between them, and that after all she had borne and done for him, he and his sister
were now farther apart, for the time at least, than when oceans lay betwixt their birth and
their meeting; and he found himself looking back with vague longing even to the terrible old
house of Glaston, and the sharing of their agony therein. His eyes followed her as she walked
across to the dressing-room, and the tears rose and filled them, but he said nothing. And the
sister who, all the time of the sermon, had been filled with wave upon wave of wishing--that
Poldie could hear this, could hear that, could have such a thought to comfort him, such a lovely
word to drive the horror from his soul, now cast on him a chilly glance, and said never a word
of the things to which she had listened with such heavings of the spirit-ocean; for she felt,
with an instinct more righteous than her will, that they would but strengthen him in his determination
to do whatever the teacher of them might approve. As she repassed him to go to the drawing-room,
she did indeed say a word of kindness; but it was in a forced tone, and was only about his
dinner! His eyes over-flowed, but he shut his lips so tight that his mouth grew grim with determination,
and no more tears came.

To the friend who joined her at the church-door, and, in George Bascombe's absence, walked
with them along Pine Street, Mrs. Ramshorn remarked that the curate was certainly a most dangerous
man--particularly for young people to hear--he so confounded all the landmarks of right and
wrong, representing the honest man as no better than the thief, and the murderer as no worse
than anybody else--teaching people in fact that the best thing they could do was to commit
some terrible crime, in order thereby to attain to a better innocence than without it could
ever be theirs. How far she mistook, or how far she knew or suspected that she spoke falsely,
I will not pretend to know. But although she spoke as she did, there was something, either
in the curate or in the sermon, that had quieted her a little, and she was less contemptuous
in her condemnation of him than usual.

Happily both for himself and others, the curate was not one of those who cripple the truth
and blind their own souls by

        some craven scruple
    Of thinking too precisely on the event--
    A thought which, quartered, hath but one part wisdom,
    And ever three parts coward;

and hence, in proportion as he roused the honest, he gave occasion to the dishonest to cavil
and condemn. Imagine St. Paul having a prevision of how he would be misunderstood, AND HEEDING
IT!--what would then have become of all those his most magnificent outbursts? And would any
amount of apostolic carefulness have protected him? I suspect it would only have given rise
to more vulgar misunderstandings and misrepresentations still. To explain to him who loves
not, is but to give him the more plentiful material for misinterpretation. Let a man have truth
in the inward parts, and out of the abundance of his heart let his mouth speak. If then he
should have ground to fear honest misunderstanding, let him preach again to enforce the truth
for which he is jealous, and if it should seem to any that the two utterances need reconciling,
let those who would have them consistent reconcile them for themselves.

The reason of George Bascombe's absence from church that morning was, that, after an early
breakfast, he had mounted Helen's mare, and set out to call on Mr. Hooker before he should
have gone to church. Helen expected him back to dinner, and was anxiously looking for him.
So also was Leopold, but the hopes of the two were different.

At length the mare's hoofs echoed through all Sunday Glaston, and presently George rode up.
The groom took his horse in the street, and he came into the drawing-room. Helen hastened to
meet him.

"Well, George?" she said, anxiously.

"Oh, it's all right!--will be at least, I am sure. I will tell you all about it in the garden
after dinner.--Aunt has the good sense never to interrupt us there," he added. "I'll just run
and show myself to Leopold: he must not suspect that I am of your party and playing him false.
Not that it is false, you know! for two negatives make a positive, and to fool a mad-man is
to give him fair play."

The words jarred sorely on Helen's ear.

Bascombe hurried to Leopold, and informed him that he had seen Mr. Hooker, and that all was
arranged for taking him over to his place on Tuesday morning, if by that time he should be
able for the journey.

"Why not to-morrow?" said Leopold. "I am quite able."

"Oh! I told him you were not very strong. And he wanted a run after the hounds to-morrow. So
we judged it better put off till Tuesday."

Leopold gave a sigh, and said no more.

CHAPTER II.

BASCOMBE AND THE MAGISTRATE.

After dinner, the cousins went to the summer-house, and there George gave Helen his report,
revealing his plan and hope for Leopold.

"Such fancies must be humoured, you know, Helen. There is nothing to be gained by opposing
them," he said.

Helen looked at him with keen eyes, and he returned the gaze. The confidence betwixt them was
not perfect: each was doubtful as to the thought of the other, and neither asked what it was.

"A fine old cock is Mr. Hooker!" said Greorge; "a jolly, good-natured, brick-faced squire;
a tory of course, and a sound church-man; as simple as a baby, and took everything I told him
without a hint of doubt or objection;--just the sort of man I expected to find him! When I
mentioned my name, &c., he found he had known my father, and that gave me a good start. Then
I lauded his avenue, and apologized for troubling him so early and on Sunday too, but said
it was a pure work of mercy in which I begged his assistance--as a magistrate, I added, lest
he should fancy I had come after a subscription. It was a very delicate case, I said, in which
were concerned the children of a man of whom he had, I believed, at one time known something--General
Lingard. 'To be sure!' he cried; 'knew him very well; a fine fellow--but hasty, sir--hasty
in his temper!' I said I had never known him myself, but one of his children was my cousin;
the other was the child of his second wife, a Hindoo lady unfortunately, and it was about him
I presumed to trouble him. Then I plunged into the matter at once, telling him that Leopold
had had violent brain-fever, brought on by a horrible drug, the use of which, if use I dare
call it, he had learnt in India; and that, although he had recovered from the fever, it was
very doubtful if ever he would recover from the consequences of it, for that he had become
the prey of a fixed idea, the hard deposit from a heated imagination. 'And pray what is the
idea?'he asked. 'Neither more nor less,' I answered, 'than that he is a murderer!'--'God bless
me!' he cried, somewhat to my alarm, for I had been making all this preamble to prejudice the
old gentleman in the right direction, lest afterwards Leopold's plausibility might be too much
for him. So I echoed the spirit of his exclamation, declaring it was one of the saddest things
I had ever known, that a fellow of such sweet and gentle nature, one utterly incapable of unkindness,
not to say violence, should be so possessed by misery and remorse for a phantom-deed, no more
his than if he had dreamed it, a thing he not only did not do, but never could have done. I
had not yet however told him, I said, what was perhaps the saddest point in the whole sad story--namely,
that the attack had been brought on by the news of the actual murder of a lady to whom he had
been passionately attached; the horror of it had unhinged his reason, then turned and fastened
upon his imagination; so that he was now convinced beyond the reach of argument or even the
clearest proof, that it was his own hand that drove the knife to her heart. Then I recalled
to his memory the case as reported, adding that the fact of the murderer's prolonged evasion
of justice, appeared, by some curious legerdemain of his excited fancy, if not to have suggested--
of that I was doubtful--yet to have ripened his conviction of guilt. Now nothing would serve
him but he must give himself up, confess--no, that was not a true word in his case!--accuse
himself of the crime, and meet his fate on the gallows,--'in the hope, observe, my dear sir,'
I said, 'of finding her in the other world, and there making it up with her!'--'God bless me!'
he cried again, in a tone of absolute horror. And every now and then, while I spoke, he would
ejaculate something; and still as he listened his eyes grew more and more bloodshot with interest
and compassion. 'Ah, I see!' he said then; 'you want to send him to a madhouse?--Don't do it,'
he continued, in a tone of expostulation, almost entreaty. 'Poor boy! He may get over it. Let
his friends look to him. He has a sister, you say?' I quickly reassured him, telling him such
was no one's desire, and saying I would come to the point in a moment, only there was one thing
more which had interested me greatly, as revealing how a brain in such a condition will befool
itself, all but generating two individualities.--There I am afraid I put my foot in it, but
he was far too simple to see it was cloven--ha! ha! and I hastened to remark that, as a magistrate,
he must have numberless opportunities of noting similar phenomena. He waved his hand in deprecation,
and I hastened to remark that, up to a certain point, whatever hint the newspapers had given,
Leopold had expanded and connected with every other, but that at one part of the story I had
found him entirely at fault: he could not tell what he did, where he went, or how he had felt,
first after the deed was done. He confessed all after that was a blank until he found himself
in bed. But when I told him something he had not seen--which his worship might remember--the
testimony namely of the coast-guardsmen--about the fishing-boat with the two men in it--I had
here to refresh his memory as to the whole of that circumstance--and did so by handing him
the newspaper containing it--that was what I made you give me the paper for--I have lost the
thread of my sentence, but never mind. I told him then something I have not told you yet, Helen,
namely, that when I happened to allude to that portion of the story, Leopold started up with
flashing eyes, and exclaimed, 'Now I remember! It all comes back to me as clear as day. I remember
running down the hill, and jumping into the boat just as they shoved off. I was exhausted,
and fell down in the stern. When I came to myself, the two men were forward: I saw their legs
beneath the sails. I thought they would be sure to give me up, and at once I slipped overboard.
The water revived me, but when I reached the shore, I fell down again, and lay there I don't
know how long. Indeed I don't remember anything more except very confusedly.' That is what
Leopold said, and what I now told Mr. Hooker. Then at last I opened my mind to him as to wherein
I ventured to ask his assistance; and my petition was, that he would allow me to bring Leopold,
and would let him go through the form of giving himself up to justice. Especially I begged
that he would listen to all he had to say, and give no sign that he doubted his story. 'And
then, sir,' I concluded, 'I would leave it to you to do what we cannot--reconcile him to going
home instead of to prison.'

"He sat with his head on his hand for a while, as if pondering some weighty question of law.
Then he said suddenly: 'It is now almost church-time. I will think the matter over. You may
rely upon me. Will you take a seat in my pew and dine with us after?' I excused myself on the
ground that I must return at once to poor Leopold, who was anxiously looking for me. And you
must forgive me, Helen, and not fancy me misusing Fanny, if I did yield to the temptation of
a little longer ride. I have scarcely more than walked her, with a canter now and then when
we had the chance of a bit of turf."

Helen assured him with grateful eyes that she knew Fanny was as safe with him as with herself;
and she felt such a gush of gratitude follow the revival of hope, that she was nearer being
in love with her cousin to ever before. Her gratitude inwardly delighted George, and he thought
the light in her blue eyes lovelier than ever; but although strougly tempted, he judged it
better to delay a formal confession until circumstances should be more comfortable.

CHAPTER III.

THE CONFESSION.

All that and the following day Leopold was in spirits for him wonderful. On Monday night there
came a considerable reaction; he was dejected, worn, and weary. Twelve o'clock the next day
was the hour appointed for their visit to Mr. Hooker, and at eleven he was dressed and ready--restless,
agitated, and very pale, but not a whit less determined than at first. A drive was the pretext
for borrowing Mrs. Ramshorn's carriage.

"Why is Mr. Wingfold not coming?" asked Lingard, anxiously, when it began to move.

"I fancy we shall be quite as comfortable without him, Poldie," said Helen. "Did you expect him?"

"He promised to go with me. But he hasn't called since the time was fixed."--Here Helen looked
out of the window.--"I can't think why it is. I can do my duty without him though," continued
Leopold, "and perhaps it is just as well.--Do you know, George, since I made up my mind, I
have seen her but once, and that was last night, and only in a dream."

"A state of irresolution is one peculiarly open to unhealthy impressions," said George, good-naturedly
disposing of his long legs so that they should be out of the way.

Leopold turned from him to his sister.

"The strange thing, Helen," he said, "was that I did not feel the least afraid of her, or even
abashed before her. 'I see you,' I said. 'Be at peace. I am coming; and you shall do to me
what you will.' And then--what do you think?--O my God! she smiled one of her own old smiles,
only sad too, very sad, and vanished. I woke, and she seemed only to have just left the room,
for there was a stir in the darkness.--Do you believe in ghosts, George?"

Leopold was not one of George's initiated, I need hardly say.

"No," answered Bascombe.

"I don't wonder. I can't blame you, for neither did I once. But just wait till you have made
one, George!"

"God forbid!" exclaimed Bascombe, a second time forgetting himself.

"Amen!" said Leopold: "for after that there's no help but be one yourself, you know."

"If he would only talk like that to old Hooker!" thought George. "It would go a long way to
forestall any possible misconception of the case."

"I can't think why Mr. Wingfold did not come yesterday," resumed Leopold. "I made sure he would."

"Now, Poldie, you mustn't talk," said Helen, "or you'll be exhausted before we get to Mr. Hooker's."

"She did not wish the non-appearance of the curate on Monday to be closely inquired into. His
company at the magistrate's was by all possible means to be avoided. George had easily persuaded
Helen, more easily than he expected, to wait their return in the carriage, and the two men
were shown into the library, where the magistrate presently joined them. He would have shaken
hands with Leopold as well as George, but the conscious felon drew back.

"No, sir; excuse me," he said. "Hear what I have to tell you first; and if after that you will
shake hands with me, it will be a kindness indeed. But you will not! you will not!"

Worthy Mr. Hooker was overwhelmed with pity at sight of the worn sallow face with the great
eyes, in which he found every appearance confirmatory of the tale wherewith Bascombe had filled
and prejudiced every fibre of his judgment. He listened in the kindest way while the poor boy
forced the words of his confession from his throat. But Leopold never dreamed of attributing
his emotion to any other cause than compassion for one who had been betrayed into such a crime.
It was against his will, for he seemed now bent, even to unreason, on fighting every weakness,
that he was prevailed upon to take a little wine. Having ended, he sat silent, in the posture
of one whose wrists are already clasped by the double bracelet of steel.

Now Mr. Hooker had thought the thing out in church on the Sunday; and after a hard run at the
tail of a strong fox over a rough country on the Monday, and a good sleep well into the morning
of the Tuesday, could see no better way. His device was simple enough.

"My dear young gentleman," he said, "I am very sorry for you, but I must do my duty."

"That, sir, is what I came to you for," answered Leopold, humbly.

"Then you must consider yourself my prisoner. The moment you, are gone, I shall make notes
of your deposition, and proceed to arrange for the necessary formalities. As a mere matter
of form, I shall take your own bail in a thousand pounds to surrender when called upon."

"But I am not of age, and haven't got a thousand pounds," said Leopold.

"Perhaps Mr. Hooker will accept my recognizance in the amount?" said Bascombe.

"Certainly," answered Mr. Hooker, and wrote something, which Bascombe signed.

"You are very good, George," said Leopold. "But you know I can't run away if I would," he added
with a pitiful attempt at a smile.

"I hope you will soon be better," said the magistrate kindly.

"Why such a wish, sir?" returned Leopold, almost reproachfully, and the good man stood abashed
before him.

He thought of it afterwards, and was puzzled to know how it was.

"You must hold yourself in readiness," he said, recovering himself with an effort, "to give
yourself up at any moment. And, rememher, I shall call upon you when I please, every week,
perhaps, or oftener, to see that you are safe. Your aunt is an old friend of mine, and there
will be no need of explanations. This turns out to be no common case, and after hearing the
whole, I do not hesitate to offer you my hand."

Leopold was overcome by his kindness, and withdrew speechless, but greatly relieved.

Several times during the course of his narrative, its apparent truthfulness and its circumstantiality
went nigh to stagger Mr. Hooker; but a glance at Bascombe's face, with its half-amused smile,
instantly set him right again, and he thought with dismay how near he had been to letting himself
be fooled by a madman.

Again in the carriage, Leopold laid his head on Helen's shoulder, and looked up in her face
with such a smile as she had never seen on his before. Certainly there was something in confession--if
only enthusiasts like Mr. Wingfold would not spoil all by pushing things to extremes and turning
good into bad!

Leopold was yet such a child, had so little occupied himself with things about him, and had
been so entirely taken up with his passion, and the poetry of existence unlawfully forced,
that if his knowledge of the circumstances of Emmeline's murder had depended on the newspapers,
he would have remained in utter ignorance concerning them. From the same causes he was so entirely
unacquainted with the modes of criminal procedure, that the conduct of the magistrate never
struck him as strange, not to say illegal. And so strongly did he feel the good man's kindness
and sympathy, that his comfort from making a clean breast of it was even greater than he expected.
Before they reached home he was fast asleep. When laid on his couch, he almost fell asleep
again, and Helen saw him smile as he slept.

CHAPTER IV.

THE MASK.

But although such was George Bascombe's judgment of Leopold, and such his conduct of his affair,
he could not prevent the recurrent intrusion of the flickering doubt which had showed itself
when first he listened to the story. Amid all the wildness of the tale there was yet a certain
air, not merely of truthfulness in the narrator--that was not to be questioned--but of verisimilitude
in the narration, which had its effect, although it gave rise to no conscious exercise of discriminating
or ponderating faculty. Leopold's air of conviction also, although of course that might well
accompany the merest invention rooted in madness, yet had its force, persistently as George
pooh-poohed it--which he did the more strenuously from the intense, even morbid abhorrence
of his nature to being taken in, and having to confess himself of unstable intellectual equilibrium.
Possibly this was not the only kind of thing in which the sensitiveness of a vanity he would
himself have disowned, had rendered him unfit for perceiving the truth. Nor do I know how much
there may be to choose between the two shames--that of accepting what is untrue, and that of
refusing what is true.

The second time he listened to Leopold's continuous narrative, the doubt returned with more
clearness and less flicker: there was such a thing as being over-wise: might he not be taking
himself in with his own incredulity? Ought he not to apply some test? And did Leopold's story
offer any means of doing so?--One thing, he then found, had been dimly haunting his thoughts
ever since he heard it: Leopold affirmed that he had thrown his cloak and mask down an old
pit-shaft, close by the place of murder: if there was such a shaft, could it be searched?--Recurring
doubt at length so wrought upon his mind, that he resolved to make his holiday excursion to
that neighbourhood, and there endeavour to gain what assurance of any sort might be to be had.
What end beyond his own possible satisfaction the inquiry was to answer he did not ask himself.
The restless spirit of the detective, so often conjoined with indifference to what is in its
own nature true, was at work in him--but that was not all: he must know the very facts, if
possible, of whatever concerned Helen. I shall not follow his proceedings closely: it is with
their reaction upon Leopold that I have to do.

The house where the terrible thing took place was not far from a little moorland village. There
Bascombe found a small inn, where he took up his quarters, pretending to be a geologist out
for a holiday. He soon came upon the disused shaft.

The inn was a good deal frequented in the evenings by the colliers of the district--a rough
race, but not beyond the influences of such an address, mingled of self-assertion and good
fellowship, as Bascombe brought to bear upon them, for he had soon perceived that amongst them
he might find the assistance he wanted. In the course of conversation, therefore, he mentioned
the shaft, on which he pretended to have come in his rambles. Remarking on the danger of such
places, he learned that this one served for ventilation, and was still accessible below from
other workings. Thereafter he begged permission to go down one of the pits, on pretext of examining
the coal-strata, and having secured for his guide one of the most intelligent of those whose
acquaintance he had made at the inn, persuaded him, partly by expressions of incredulity because
of the distance between, to guide him to the bottom of the shaft whose accessibility he maintained.
That they were going in the right direction, he had the testimony of the little compass he
carried at his watch-chain, and at length he saw a faint gleam before him. When at last he
raised his head, wearily bent beneath the low roofs of the passages, and looked upwards, there
was a star looking down at him out of the sky of day! But George never wasted time in staring
at what was above his head, and so began instantly to search about as if examining the indications
of the strata. Was it possible? Could it be? There was a piece of black something that was
not coal, and seemed textile! It was a half-mask, for there were the eye-holes in it! He caught
it up and hurried it into his bag--not so quickly but that the haste set his guide speculating.
And Bascombe saw that the action was noted. The man afterwards offered to carry his bag, but
he would not allow him.

The next morning he left the place and returned to London, taking Glaston, by a detour, on
his way. A few questions to Leopold drew from him a description of the mask he had worn, entirely
corresponding with the one George had found; and at length he was satisfied that there was
truth more than a little in Leopold's confession. It was not his business, however, he now
said to himself, to set magistrates right. True, he had set Mr. Hooker wrong in the first place,
but he had done it in good faith, and how could he turn traitor to Helen and her brother? Besides,
he was sure the magistrate himself would be anything but obliged to him for opening his eyes!
At the same time Leopold's fanatic eagerness after confession might drive the matter further,
and if so, it might become awkward for him. He might be looked to for the defence, and were
he not certain that his guide had marked his concealment of what he had picked up, he might
have ventured to undertake it, for certainly it would have been a rare chance for a display
of the forensic talent he believed himself to possess; but as it was, the moment he was called
to the bar--which would be within a fortnight--he would go abroad, say to Paris, and there,
for twelve months or so, await events.

When he disclosed to Helen his evil success in the coalpit, it was but the merest film of a
hope it destroyed, for she KNEW that her brother was guilty. George and she now felt that they
were linked by the possession of a common, secret.

But the cloak had been found a short time before, and was in the possession of Emmeline's mother.
That mother was a woman of strong passions and determined character. The first shock of the
catastrophe over, her grief was almost supplanted by a rage for vengeance, in the compassing
of which no doubt she vaguely imagined she would be doing something to right her daughter.
Hence the protracted concealment of the murderer was bitterness to her soul, and she vowed
herself to discovery and revenge as the one business of her life. In this her husband, a good
deal broken by the fearful event, but still more by misfortunes of another kind which had begun
to threaten him, offered her no assistance, and indeed felt neither her passion urge him, nor
her perseverance hold him to the pursuit.

In the neighbourhood her mind was well known, and not a few found their advantage in supplying
her passion with the fuel of hope. Any hint of evidence, however small, the remotest suggestion
even towards discovery, they would carry at once to her, for she was an open-handed woman,
and in such case would give with a profusion that, but for the feeling concerned, would have
been absurd, and did expose her to the greed of every lying mendicant within reach of her.
Not unnaturally, therefore, it had occurred to a certain collier to make his way to the bottom
of the shaft, on the chance--hardly of finding, but of being enabled to invent something worth
reporting; and there, to the very fooling of his barren expectation, he had found the cloak.

The mother had been over to Holland, where she had instituted unavailing inquiries in the villages
along the coast and among the islands, and had been home but a few days when the cloak was
carried to her. In her mind it immediately associated itself with the costumes of the horrible
ball, and at once she sought the list of her guests thereat. It was before her at the very
moment when the man, who had been Bascombe's guide, sent in to request an interview, the result
of which was to turn her attention for the time in another direction.--Who might the visitor
to the mine have been?

Little was to be gathered in the neighbourhood beyond the facts that the letters G. B. were
on his carpet-bag, and that a scrap of torn envelope bore what seemed the letters mple. She
despatched the poor indications to an inquiry-office in London.

CHAPTER V.

FURTHER DECISION.

The day after his confession to Mr. Hooker, a considerable re-action took place in Lingard.
He did not propose to leave his bed, and lay exhausted. He said he had caught cold. He coughed
a little; wondered why Mr. Wingfold did not come to see him, dozed a good deal, and often woke
with a start. Mrs. Ramshorn thought Helen ought to make him get up: nothing, she said, could
be worse for him than lying in bed; but Helen thought, even if her aunt were right, he must
be humoured. The following day Mr. Hooker called, inquired after him, and went up to his room
to see him. There he said all he could think of to make him comfortable; repeated that certain
preliminaries had to be gone through before the commencement of the prosecution; said that
while these went on, it was better he should be in his sister's care than in prison, where,
if he went at once, he most probably would die before the trial came on; that in the meantime
he was responsible for him; that, although he had done quite right in giving himself up, he
must not let what was done and could no more be helped, prey too much upon his mind, lest it
should render him unable to give his evidence with proper clearness, and he should be judged
insane and sent to Broadmoor, which would be frightful. He ended by saying that he had had
great provocation, and that he was certain the judge would consider it in passing sentence,
only he must satisfy the jury there had been no premeditation.

"I will not utter a word to excuse myself, Mr. Hooker," replied Leopold.

The worthy magistrate smiled sadly, and went away, if possible, more convinced of the poor
lad's insanity.

The visit helped Leopold over that day, but when the next also passed, and neither did Wingfold
appear, nor any explanation of his absence reach him, he made up his mind to act again for himself.

The cause of the curate's apparent neglect, though ill to find, was not far to seek.

On the Monday, he had, upon some pretext or other, been turned away; on the Tuesday, he had
been told that Mr. Lingard had gone for a drive; on the Wednesday, that he was much too tired
to be seen; and thereupon had at length judged it better to leave things to right themselves.
If Leopold did not want to see him, it would be of no use by persistence to force his way to
him; while on the other hand, if he did want to see him, he felt convinced the poor fellow
would manage to have his own way somehow.

The next morning after he had thus resolved, Leopold declared himself better, and got up and
dressed. He then lay on the sofa and waited as quietly as he could until Helen went out--Mr,
Faber insisting she should do so every day. It was no madness, but a burning desire for life,
coupled with an utter carelessness of that which is commonly called life, that now ruled his
behaviour. He tied his slippers on his feet, put on his smoking-cap, crept unseen from the
house, and took the direction, of the Abbey. The influence of the air--by his weakness rendered
intoxicating, the strange look of everything around him, the nervous excitement of every human
approach, kept him up until he reached the churchyard, across which he was crawling, to find
the curate's lodging, when suddenly his brain seemed to go swimming away into regions beyond
the senses. He attempted to seat himself on a grave-stone, but lost consciousness, and fell
at full length between that and the next one.

When Helen returned, she was horrified to find that he had gone--when, or whither nobody knew:
no one had missed him. Her first fear was the river, but her conscience enlightened her, and
her shame could not prevent her from seeking him at the curate's. In her haste she passed him
where he lay.

Shown into the curate's study, she gave a hurried glance around, and her anxiety became terror
again.

"Oh! Mr. Wingfold," she cried, "where is Leopold?"

"I have not seen him," replied the curate, turning pale.

"Then he has thrown himself in the river!" cried Helen, and sank on a chair.

The curate caught up his hat.

"You wait here," he said. "I will go and look for him."

But Helen rose, and, without another word, they set off together, and again entered the churchyard.
As they hurried across it, the curate caught sight of something on the ground, and, springing
forward, found Leopold.

"He is dead!" cried Helen, in an agony, when she saw him stop and stoop.

He looked dead indeed; but what appalled her the most reassured Wingfold a little: blood had
flowed freely from a cut on his eyebrow.

The curate lifted him, no hard task, out of the damp shadow, and laid him on the stone, which
was warm in the sun, with his head on Helen's lap, then ran to order the carriage, and hastened
back with brandy. They got a little into his mouth, but he could not swallow it. Still it seemed
to do him good, for presently he gave a deep sigh; and just then they heard the carriage stop
at the gate. Wingfold took him up, carried him to it, got in with him in his arms, and held
him on his knees until he reached the manor house, when he carried him upstairs and laid him
on the sofa. When they had brought him round a little, he undressed him and put him to bed.

"Do not leave me," murmured Leopold, just as Helen entered the room, and she heard it.

Wingfold looked to her for the answer he was to make. Her bearing was much altered: she was
both ashamed and humbled.

"Yes, Leopold," she said, "Mr. Wingfold will, I am sure, stay with you as long as he can."

"Indeed I will," assented the curate. "But I must run for Mr. Faber first."

"How did I come here?" asked Leopold, opening his eyes large upon Helen after swallowing a
spoonful of the broth she held to his lips.

But, before she could answer him, he turned sick, and by the time the doctor came was very
feverish. Faber gave the necessary directions, and Wingfold walked back with him to get his
prescription made up.

CHAPTER VI.

THE CURATE AND THE DOCTOR.

"There is something strange about that young man's illness," said Faber, as soon as they had
left the house. "I fancy you know more than you can tell, and if so, then I have committed
no indiscretion in saying as much."

"Perhaps it might be an indiscretion to acknowledge as much however," said the curate with a smile.

"You are right. I have not been long in the place," returned Faber, "and you had no opportunity
of testing me. But I am indifferent honest as well as you, though I don't go you in everything."

"People would have me believe you don't go with me in anything."

"They say as much--do they?" returned Faber with some annoyance. "I thought I had been careful
not to trespass on your preserves."

"As for preserves, I don't know of any," answered the curate. "There is no true bird in the
grounds that won't manage somehow to escape the snare of the fowler."

"Well," said the doctor, "I know nothing about God and all that kind of thing, but, though
I don't think I'm a coward exactly either, I know I should like to have your pluck."

"I haven't got any pluck," said the curate.

"Tell that to the marines," said Faber. "I daren't go and say what I think or don't think,
even in the bedroom of my least orthodox patient--at least, if I do, I instantly repent it--while
you go on saying what you really believe Sunday after Sunday!--How you can believe it, I don't
know, and it's no business of mine."

"Oh yes, it is!" returned Wingfold. "But as to the pluck, it may be a man's duty to say in
the pulpit what he would be just as wrong to say by a sick-bed."

"That has nothing to do with the pluck! That's all I care about."

"It has everything to do with what you take for pluck. My pluck is only Don Worm."

"I don't know what you mean by that."

"It's Benedick's name, in Much Ado about Nothing, for the conscience. MY pluck is nothing but
my conscience."

"It's a damned fine thing to have anyhow, whatever name you put upon it!" said Faber.

"Excuse me if I find your epithet more amusing than apt," said Wingfold, laughing.

"You are quite right," said Faber. "I apologize."

"As to the pluck again," Wingfold resumed, "--if you think of this one fact--that my whole
desire is to believe in God, and that the only thing I can be sure of sometimes is that, if
there be a God, none but an honest man will ever find him, you will not then say there is much
pluck in my speaking the truth?"

"I don't see that that makes it a hair easier, in the face of such a set of gaping noodles as--"

"I beg your pardon:--there is more lack of conscience than of brains in the Abbey of a Sunday,
I fear."

"Well, all I have to say is, I can't for the life of me see what you want to believe in a God
for! It seems to me the world would go rather better without any such fancy. Look here now:
there is young Spenser--out there at Harwood--a patient of mine. His wife died yesterday--one
of the loveliest young creatures you ever saw. The poor fellow is as bad about it as fellow
can be. Well, he's one of your sort, and said to me the other day, just as you would have him,
'It's the will of God,' he said, 'and we must hold our peace.'--'Don't talk to me about God,'
I said, for I couldn't stand it. 'Do you mean to tell me that, if there was a God, he would
have taken such a lovely creature as that away from her husband and her helpless infant, at
the age of two and twenty? I scorn to believe it.'"

"What did he say to that?"

"He turned as white as death, and said never a word."

"Ah, you forgot that you were taking from him his only hope of seeing her again!"

"I certainly did not think of that," said Faber.

"Even then," resumed Wingfold, "I should not say you were wrong, if you were prepared to add
that you had searched every possible region of existence, and had found no God; or that you
had tried every theory man had invented, or even that you were able to invent yourself, and
had found none of them consistent with the being of a God. I do not say that then you would
be right in your judgment, for another man, of equal weight, might have had a different experience.
I only say, I would not then blame you. But you must allow it a very serious thing to assert
as a conviction, without such grounds as the assertor has pretty fully satisfied himself concerning,
what COULD only drive the sting of death ten times deeper."

The doctor was silent.

"I doubt not you spoke in a burst of indignation; but it seems to me the indignation of a man
unaccustomed to ponder the things concerning which he expresses such a positive conviction."

"You are wrong there," returned Faber; "for I was brought up in the straitest sect of the Pharisees,
and know what I am saying."

"The straitest sect of the Pharisees can hardly be the school in which to gather any such idea
of a God as one could wish to be a reality."

"They profess to know."

"Is that any argument of weight, they and their opinions being what they are?--If there be
a God, do you imagine he would choose any strait sect under the sun to be his interpreters?"

"But the question is not of the idea of a God, but of the existence of any, seeing, if he exists,
he must be such as the human heart could never accept as God, inasmuch as he at least permits,
if not himself enacts cruelty. My argument to poor Spenser remains--however unwise or indeed
cruel it may have been."

"I grant it a certain amount of force--as much exactly as had gone to satisfy the children
whom I heard the other day agreeing that Dr. Faber was a very cruel man, for he pulled out
nurse's tooth, and gave poor little baby such a nasty, nasty powder!"

"Is that a fair parallel? I must look at it."

"I think it is. What you do is often unpleasant, sometimes most painful, but it does not follow
that you are a cruel man, and a hurter instead of a healer of men."

"I think there is a fault in the analogy," said Faber. "For here am I nothing but a slave to
laws already existing, and compelled to work according to them. It is not my fault therefore
that the remedies I have to use are unpleasant. But if there be a God, he has the matter in
his own hands."

"There is weight and justice in your argument, which may well make the analogy appear at first
sight false. But is there no theory possible that should make it perfect?"

"I do not see how there should be any. For, if you say God is under any such compulsion as
I am under, then surely the house is divided against itself, and God is not God any more."

"For my part," said the curate, "I think I COULD believe in a God who did but his imperfect
best: in one all power, and not all goodness, I could not believe. But suppose that the design
of God involved the perfecting of men as the CHILDREN OF GOD--'I said ye are gods,'--that he
would have them partakers of his own blessedness in kind--be as himself;--suppose his grand
idea could not be contented with creatures perfect ONLY by his gift, so far as that should
reach, and having no willing causal share in the perfection, that is, partaking not at all
of God's individuality and free-will and choice of good; then suppose that suffering were the
only way through which the individual could be set, in separate and self-individuality, so
far apart from God, that it might WILL, and so become a partaker of his singleness and freedom;--and
suppose that this suffering must be and had been initiated by God's taking his share, and that
the infinitely greater share;--suppose next, that God saw the germ of a pure affection, say
in your friend and his wife, but saw also that it was a germ so imperfect and weak that it
could not encounter the coming frosts and winds of the world without loss and decay, while,
if they were parted now for a few years, it would grow and strengthen and expand, to the certainty
of an infinitely higher and deeper and keener love through the endless ages to follow--so that
by suffering should come, in place of contented decline, abortion, and death, a troubled birth
of joyous result in health and immortality;--suppose all this, and what then?"

Faber was silent a moment, then answered,

"Your theory has but one fault: it is too good to be true."

"My theory leaves plenty of difficulty, but has no such fault as that. Why, what sort of a
God would content you, Mr. Faber? The one idea is too bad, the other too good to be true. Must
you expand and pare until you get one exactly to the measure of yourself ere you can accept
it as thinkable or possible? Why, a less God than that would not rest your soul a week. The
only possibility of believing in a God seems to me to lie in finding an idea of a God large
enough, grand enough, pure enough, lovely enough to be fit to believe in."

"And have you found such--may I ask?"

"I think I am finding such."

"Where?"

"In the man of the New Testament. I have thought a little more about these things, I fancy,
than you have, Mr. Faber. I may come to be sure of something; I don't see how a man can ever
be sure of NOTHING."

"Don't suppose me quite dumbfoundered, though I can't answer you off hand," said Mr. Faber,
as they reached his door.--"Come in with me, and I will make up the medicine myself; it will
save time. There are a thousand difficulties," he resumed in the surgery, "some of them springing
from peculiar points that come before one of my profession, which I doubt if you would be able
to meet so readily. But about this poor fellow, Lingard. You know Glaston gossip says he is
out of his mind."

"If I were you, Mr. Faber, I would not take pains to contradict it. He is not out of his mind,
but has such trouble in it as might well drive him out.--Don't you even hint at that, though."

"I understand," said Faber.

"If doctor and minister did understand each other and work together," said Wingfold, "I fancy
a good deal more might be done."

"I don't doubt it.--What sort of fellow is that cousin of theirs--Bascombe is his name, I believe?"

"A man to suit you, I should think," said the curate; "a man with a most tremendous power of
believing in nothing."

"Come, come!" returned the doctor, "you don't know half enough about me to tell what sort of
man I should like or dislike."

"Well, all I will say more of Bascombe is, that if he were not conceited he would be honest;
and if he were as honest as he believes himself, he would not be so ready to judge every one
dishonest who does not agree with him."

"I hope we may have another talk soon," said the doctor, searching for a cork. "Some day I
will tell you a few things that may stagger you."

"Likely enough: I am only learning to walk yet," said Wingfold. "But a man may stagger and
not fall, and I am ready to hear anything you choose to tell me."

Faber handed him the bottle, and he took his leave.

CHAPTER VII.

HELEN AND THE CURATE.

Before the morning Leopold lay wound in the net of a low fever, almost as ill as ever, but
with this difference, that his mind was far less troubled, and that even his most restless
dreams no longer scared him awake to a still nearer assurance of misery. And yet, many a time,
as she watched by his side, it was excruciatingly plain to Helen that the stuff of which his
dreams were made was the last process to the final execution of the law. She thought she could
follow it all in his movements and the expressions of his countenance. At a certain point,
the cold dew always appeared on his forehead, after which invariably came a smile, and he would
be quiet until near morning, when the same signs again appeared. Sometimes he would murmur
prayers, and sometimes it seemed to Helen that he must fancy himself talking face to face with
Jesus, for the look of blessed and trustful awe upon his countenance was amazing in its beauty.

For Helen herself, she was prey to a host of changeful emotions. At one time she accused herself
bitterly of having been the cause of the return of his illness; the next a gush of gladness
would swell her heart at the thought that now she had him at least safer for a while, and that
he might die and so escape the whole crowd of horrible possibilities. For George's manipulation
of the magistrate could but delay the disclosure of the truth; even should no discovery be
made, Leopold must at length suspect a trick, and that would at once drive him to fresh action.

But amongst the rest, a feeling which had but lately begun to indicate its far-off presence
now threatened to bring with it a deeper and more permanent sorrow: it became more and more
plain to her that she had taken the evil part against the one she loved best in the world;
that she had been as a Satan to him; had driven him back, stood almost bodily in the way to
turn him from the path of peace. Whether the path he had sought to follow was the only one
or not, it was the only one he knew; and that it was at least A true one, was proved by the
fact that he had already found in it the beginnings of the peace he sought; while she, for
the avoidance of shame and pity, for the sake of the family, as she had said to herself, had
pursued a course which if successful, would at best have resulted in shutting him up, as in
a madhouse, with his own inborn horrors, with vain remorse, and equally vain longing. Her conscience,
now that her mind was quieter, from the greater distance to which the threatening peril had
again withdrawn, had taken the opportunity of speaking louder. And she listened--but still
with one question ever presented: Why might he not appropriate the consolations of the gospel
without committing the suicide of surrender? She could not see that confession was the very
door of refuge and safety, towards which he must press.

George's absence was now again a relief, and while she feared and shrank from the severity
of Wingfold, she could not help a certain indiscribable sense of safety in his presence--at
least so long as Leopold was too ill to talk.

For the curate, he became more and more interested in the woman who could love so strongly,
and yet not entirely, who suffered and must still suffer so much, and who a faith even no greater
than his own might render comparatively blessed. The desire to help her grew and grew in him,
but he could see no way of reaching her. And then he began to discover one peculiar advantage
belonging to the little open chamber of the pulpit--open not only or specially to heaven above,
but to so many of the secret chambers of the souls of the congregation. For what a man dares
not, could not if he dared, and dared not if he could, say to another, even at the time and
in the place fittest of all, he can say thence, open-faced before the whole congregation; and
the person in need thereof may hear it without umbrage, or the choking husk of individual application,
irritating to the rejection of what truth may lie in it for him. Would that our pulpits were
all in the power of such men as by suffering know the human, and by obedience the divine heart!
Then would the office of instruction be no more mainly occupied by the press, but the faces
of true men would everywhere be windows for the light of the Spirit to enter other men's souls,
and the voice of their words would follow with the forms of what truth they saw, and the power
of the Lord would speed from heart to heart. Then would men soon understand that not the form
of even soundest words availeth anything, but a new creature.

When Wingfold was in the pulpit, then, he could speak as from the secret to the secret; but
elsewhere he felt, in regard to Helen, like a transport-ship filled with troops, which must
go sailing around the shores of an invaded ally, in frustrate search for a landing. Oh, to
help that woman, that the light of life might go up in her heart, and her cheek bloom again
with the rose of peace! But not a word could he speak in her presence, for he heard everything
be would have said as he thought it would sound to her, and therefore he had no utterance.
Is it an infirmity of certain kinds of men, or a wise provision for their protection, that
the brightest forms the truth takes in their private cogitations seem to lose half their lustre
and all their grace when uttered in the presence of an unreceptive nature, and they hear, as
it were, their own voice reflected in a poor, dull, inharmonious echo, and are disgusted?

But, on the other hand, ever in the pauses of the rushing, ever in the watery gleams of life
that broke through the clouds and drifts of the fever, Leopold sought his friend, and, finding
him, shone into a brief radiance, or, missing him, gloomed back into the land of visions. The
tenderness of the curate's service, the heart that showed itself in everything he did, even
in the turn and expression of the ministering hand, was a kind of revelation to Helen. For
while his intellect was hanging about the door, asking questions, and uneasily shifting hither
and thither in its unloved perplexities, the spirit of the master had gone by it unseen, and
entered into the chamber of his heart.

After preaching the sermon last recorded, there came a reaction of doubt and depression on
the mind of the curate, greater than usual. Had he not gone farther than his right? Had he
not implied more conviction than was his? Words could not go beyond his satisfaction with what
he found in the gospel, or the hopes for the range of his conscious life springing therefrom;
but was he not now making people suppose him more certain of the FACT of these things than
he was? He was driven to console himself with the reflection that so long as he had had no
such intention, even if he had been so carried away by the delight of his heart as to give
such an impression, it mattered little: what was it to other people what he believed or how
he believed? If he had not been untrue to himself, no harm would follow. Was a man never to
talk from the highest in him to the forgetting of the lower? Was a man never to be carried
beyond himself and the regions of his knowledge? If so, then farewell poetry and prophecy--yea,
all grand discovery!--for things must be foreseen ere they can be realized--apprehended ere
they be comprehended. This much he could say for himself, and no more, that he was ready to
lay down his life for the mere CHANCE, if he might so use the word, of these things being true;
nor did he argue any devotion in that, seeing life without them would be to him a waste of
unreality. He could bear witness to no facts--but to the truth, to the loveliness and harmony
and righteousness and safety that he saw in the idea of the Son of Man--as he read it in the
story. He dared not say what, in a time of persecution, torture might work upon him, but he
felt right hopeful that, even were he base enough to deny him, any cock might crow him back
to repentance. At the same time he saw plain enough that even if he gave his body to be burned,
it were no sufficing assurance of his Christianity: nothing could satisfy him of that less
than the conscious presence of the perfect charity. Without that he was still outside the kingdom,
wandering in a dream around its walls.

Difficulties went on presenting themselves; at times he would be overwhelmed in the tossing
waves of contradiction and impossibility; but still his head would come up into the air and
he would get a breath before he went down again. And with every fresh conflict, every fresh
gleam of doubtful victory, the essential idea of the master looked more and more lovely. And
he began to see the working of his doubts on the growth of his heart and soul--both widening
and realizing his faith, and preventing it from becoming faith in an idea of God instead of
in the living God--the God beyond as well as in the heart that thought and willed and imagined.

He had much time for reflection as he sat silent by the bedside of Leopold. Sometimes Helen
would be sitting near, though generally when he arrived she went out for her walk, but never
anything came to him he could utter to her. And she was one of those who learn little from
other people. A change must pass upon her ere she could be rightly receptive. Some vapour or
other that clouded her being must be driven to the winds first.

Mrs. Ramshorn had become at least reconciled to the frequent presence of the curate, partly
from the testimony of Helen, partly from the witness of her own eyes to the quality of his
ministrations. She was by no means one of the loveliest among women, yet she had a heart, and
could appreciate some kinds of goodness which the arrogance of her relation to the church did
not interfere to hide--for nothing is so deadening to the divine as an habitual dealing with
the outsides of holy things--and she became half-friendly and quite courteous when she met
the curate on the stair, and would now and then, when she thought of it, bring him a glass
of wine as he sat by the bedside.

CHAPTER VIII.

AN EXAMINATION.

The acquaintance between the draper and the gate-keeper rapidly ripened into friendship. Very
generally, as soon as he had shut his shop, Drew would walk to the park-gate to see Polwarth;
and three times a week at least, the curate made one of the party. Much was then talked, more
was thought, and I venture to say, more yet was understood.

One evening the curate went earlier than usual, and had tea with the Polwarths.

"Do you remember," he asked of his host, "once putting to me the question what our Lord came
into this world for?"

"I do," answered Polwarth.

"And you remember I answered you wrong: I said it was to save the world."

"I do. But remember, I said primarily, for of course he did come to save the world."

"Yes, just so you put it. Well, I think I can answer the question correctly now, and in learning
the true answer I have learned much. Did he not come first of all to do the will of his Father?
Was not his Father first with him always and in everything--his fellow-men next--for they were
his Father's?"

"I need not say it--you know that you are right. Jesus is tenfold a real person to you--is
he not--since you discovered that truth?"

"I think so; I hope so. It does seem as if a grand simple reality had begun to dawn upon me
out of the fog--the form as of a man pure and simple, because the eternal son of the Father."

"And now, may I not ask--are you able to accept the miracles, things in themselves so improbable?"

"If we suppose the question settled as to whether the man was what he said, then all that remains
is to ask whether the works reported of him are consistent with what you can see of the character
of the man."

"And to you they seem--?"

"Some consistent, others not. Concerning the latter I look for more light."

"Meantime let me ask you a question about them. What was the main object of miracles?"

"One thing at least I have learned, Mr. Polwarth and that is, not to answer any question of
yours in a hurry," said Wingfold. "I will, if you please, take this one home with me, and hold
the light to it."

"Do," said Polwarth, "and you will find it return you the light threefold.--One word more,
ere Mr. Drew comes: do you still think of giving up your curacy?"

"I have almost forgotten I ever thought of such a thing. Whatever energies I may or may not
have, I know one thing for certain, that I could not devote them to anything else I should
think entirely worth doing. Indeed nothing else seems interesting enough--nothing to repay
the labour, but the telling of my fellow-men about the one man who is the truth, and to know
whom is the life. Even if there be no hereafter, I would live my time believing in a grand
thing that ought to be true if it is not. No facts can take the place of truths, and if these
be not truths, then is the loftiest part of our nature a waste. Let me hold by the better than
the actual, and fall into nothingness off the same precipice with Jesus and John and Paul and
a thousand more, who were lovely in their lives, and with their death make even the nothingness
into which they have passed like the garden of the Lord. I will go further, Polwarth, and say,
I would rather die for evermore believing as Jesus believed, than live for evermore believing
as those that deny him. If there be no God, I feel assured that existence is and could be but
a chaos of contradictions, whence can emerge nothing worthy to be called a truth, nothing worth
living for.--No, I will not give up my curacy. I will teach that which IS good, even if there
should be no God to make a fact of it, and I will spend my life on it, in the growing hope,
which MAY become assurance, that there is indeed a perfect God, worthy of being the Father
of Jesus Christ, and that it was BECAUSE they are true, that these things were lovely to me
and to so many men and women, of whom some have died for them, and some would be yet ready to die."

"I thank my God to hear you say so. Nor will you stand still there," said Polwarth. "But here
comes Mr. Drew!"

CHAPTER IX.

IMMORTALITY.

"How goes business?" said Polwarth, when the new-comer had seated himself.

"That is hardly a question I look for from you, sir," returned the draper, smiling all over
his round face, which looked more than ever like a moon of superior intelligence. "For me,
I am glad to leave it behind me in the shop."

"True business can never be left in any shop. It is a care, white or black, that sits behind
every horseman."

"That is fact; and with me it has just taken a new shape," said Drew, "for I have come with
quite a fresh difficulty. Since I saw you last, Mr. Polwarth, a strange and very uncomfortable
doubt has rushed in upon me, and I find myself altogether unfit to tackle it. I have no weapons--not
a single argument of the least weight. I wonder if it be a law of nature that no sooner shall
a man get into a muddle with one thing, than a thousand other muddles shall come pouring in
upon him, as if Muddle itself were going to swallow him up! Here am I just beginning to get
a little start in honester ways, when up comes the ugly head of the said doubt, swelling itself
more and more to look like a fact--namely, that after this world there is nothing for us--nothing
at all to be had anyhow--that as we came so we go--into life, out of life--that, having been
nothing before, we shall be nothing after! The flowers come back in the spring, and the corn
in the autumn, but they ain't the same flowers or the same corn. They're just as different
as the new generations of men."

"There's no pretence that we come back either. We only think we don't go into the ground, but
away somewhere else."

"You can't prove that."

"No."

"And you don't know anything about it!"

"Not much--but enough, I think."

"Why, even those that profess to believe it, scoff at the idea of an apparition--a ghost!"

"That's the fault of the ghosts, I suspect--or their reporters. I don't care about them myself.
I prefer the tale of one who, they say, rose again, and brought his body with him."

"Yes; but he was only one!"

"Except two or three whom, they say, he brought to life."

"Still there are but three or four."

"To tell you the truth, I do not care much to argue the point with you.--It is by no means
a matter of the FIRST importance whether we live for ever or not."

"Mr. Polwarth!" exclaimed the draper in such astonishment mingled with horror, as proved he
was not in immediate danger of becoming an advocate of the doctrine of extinction.

The gate-keeper smiled what, but for a peculiar expression of undefinable good in it, might
have been called a knowing smile.

"Suppose a thing were in itself not worth having," he said, "would it be any great enhancement
of it as a gift to add the assurance that the possession of it was eternal! Most people think
it a fine thing to have a bit of land to call their own and leave to their children; but suppose
a stinking and undrainable swamp, full of foul springs--what consolation would it be to the
proprietor of that to know, while the world lasted, not a human being would once dispute its
possession with any fortunate descendant holding it?"

The draper only stared, but his stare was a thorough one. The curate sat waiting, with both
amusement and interest, for what would follow: he saw the direction in which the little man
was driving.

"You astonish me!" said Mr. Drew, recovering his mental breath. "How can you compare God's
gift to such a horrible thing! Where should we be without life?"

Rachel burst out laughing, and the curate could not help joining her.

"Mr. Drew," said Polwarth, half merrily, "are you going to help me drag my chain out of its
weary length, or are you too much shocked at the doubtful condition of its links to touch them?
I promise you the last shall be of bright gold."

"I beg your pardon," said the draper; "I might have known you didn't mean it."

"On the contrary, I mean everything I say and that literally. Perhaps I don't mean everything
you fancy I mean.--Tell me then, would life be worth having on any and every possible condition?"

"Certainly not."

"You know some, I dare say, who would be glad to be rid of life such as it is, and such as
they suppose it must continue?"

"I don't."

"I do."

"I have already understood that everybody clung to life."

"Most people do; everybody certainly does not: Job, for instance."

"They say that is but a poem."

"BUT a poem! EVEN a poem--a representation true not of this or that individual, but of the
race! There ARE such persons as would gladly be rid of life, and in their condition all would
feel the same. Somewhat similar is the state of those who profess unbelief in the existence
of God: none of them expect, and few of them seem to wish to live for ever!--At least, so I
am told."

"That is no wonder," said the draper; "--if they don't believe in God, I mean."

"Then there I have you! There you allow life to be not worth having, if on certain evil conditions."

"I admit it, then."

"And I repeat that to prove life endless is a matter of the FIRST importance. And I will go
a little farther.--Does it follow that life is worth having because a man would like to have
it for ever?"

"I should say so; who should be a better judge than the man himself?"

"Let us look at it a moment. Suppose--we will take a strong case--suppose a man whose whole
delight is in cruelty, and who has such plentiful opportunity of indulging the passion that
he finds it well with him--such a man would of course desire such a life to endure for ever:
is such a life worth having? were it well that man should be immortally cruel?"

"Not for others."

"Still less, I say, for himself."

"In the judgment of others, doubtless; but to himself he would be happy."

"Call his horrible satisfaction happiness then, and leave aside the fact that in its own nature
it is a horror, and not a bliss: a time must come, when, in the exercise of his delight, he
shall have destroyed all life besides, and made himself alone with himself in an empty world:
will he then find life worth having?"

"Then he ought to live for punishment."

"With that we have nothing to do now, but there you have given me an answer to my question,
whether a man's judgment that his life is worth having, proves immortality a thing to be desired."

"I have. I understand now."

"It follows that there is something of prior importance to the possession of immortality:--what
is that something?"

"I suppose that the immortality itself should be worth possessing."

"Yes; that the life should be such that it were well it should be endless.--And what then if
it be not such?"

"The question then would be whether it could not be made such."

"You are right.--And wherein consists the essential inherent worthiness of a life as life?--The
only perfect idea of life is--a unit, self-existent, and creative. That is God, the only one.
But to this idea, in its kind, must every life, to be complete as life, correspond; and the
human correspondence to self-existence is, that the man should round and complete himself by
taking into himself that origin; by going back and in his own will adopting his origin, rooting
therein afresh in the exercise of his own freedom and in all the energy of his own self-roused
will; in other words--that the man say "I will be after the will of the creating I;" that he
see and say with his whole being that to will the will of God in himself and for himself and
concerning himself, is the highest possible condition of a man. Then has he completed his cycle
by turning back upon his history, laying hold of his cause, and willing his own being in the
will of the only I AM. This is the rounding, re-creating, unifying of the man. This is religion,
and all that gathers not with this, scatters abroad."

"And then," said Drew, with some eagerness, "lawfully comes the question, 'Shall I, or shall
I not live for ever?'"

"Pardon me; I think not," returned the little prophet. "I think rather we have done with it
for ever. The man with life so in himself, will not dream of asking whether he shall live.
It is only in the twilight of a half-life, holding in it at once much wherefore it should desire
its own continuance, and much that renders it unworthy of continuance, that the doubtful desire
of immortality can arise.--Do you remember"--here Polwarth turned to Wingfold--"my mentioning
to you once a certain manuscript of strange interest--to me at least and Rachel--which a brother
of mine left behind him?"

"I remember it perfectly," answered the curate."

"It seems so to mingle with all I ever think on this question, that I should much like, if
you gentlemen would allow me, to read some extracts from it."

Nothing could have been heartier than the assurance of both the men that they could but be
delighted to listen to anything he chose to give them.

"I must first tell you, however," said Polwarth, "merely to protect you from certain disturbing
speculations, otherwise sure to present themselves, that my poor brother was mad, and that
what I now read portions of seemed to him no play of the imagination, but a record of absolute
fact. Some parts are stranger and less intelligible than others, but through it all there is
abundance of intellectual movement, and what seems to me a wonderful keenness to perceive the
movements and arrest the indications of an imagined consciousness."

As he spoke, the little man was opening a cabinet in which he kept his precious things. He
brought from it a good-sized quarto volume, neatly bound in morocco, with gilt edges, which
he seemed to handle not merely with respect but with tenderness.

The heading of the next chapter is my own, and does not belong to the manuscript.

CHAPTER X.

PASSAGES FROM THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF THE WANDERING JEW.

"'I have at length been ill, very ill, once more, and for many reasons foreign to the weightiest,
which I had forgotten, I had hoped that I was going to die. But therein I am as usual deceived
and disappointed. That I have been out of my mind I know, by having returned to the real knowledge
of what I am. The conscious present has again fallen together and made a whole with the past,
and that whole is my personal identity.

"'How I broke loose from the bonds of a madness, which, after so many and heavy years of uninterrupted
sanity, had at length laid hold upon me, I will now relate.

"'I had, as I have said, been very ill--with some sort of fever that had found fit rooting
in a brain overwearied, from not having been originally constructed to last so long. Whether
it came not of an indwelling demon, or a legion of demons, I cannot tell--God knows. Surely
I was as one possessed. I was mad, whether for years, or but for moments--who can tell? I cannot.
Verily it seems for many years; but, knowing well the truth concerning the relations of time
in him that dreameth and waketh from his dream, I place no confidence in the testimony of the
impressions left upon my seeming memory. I can however trust it sufficiently as to the character
of the illusions that then possessed me. I imagined myself an Englishman called Polwarth, of
an ancient Cornish family. Indeed, I had in my imagination, as Polwarth, gone through the history,
every day of it, with its sunrise and sunset, of more than half a lifetime. I had a brother
who was deformed and a dwarf, and a daughter who was like him; and the only thing, throughout
the madness, that approached a consciousness of my real being and history, was the impression
that these things had come upon me because of a certain grievous wrong I had at one time committed,
which wrong, however, I had quite forgotten--and could ill have imagined in its native hideousness.

"'But one morning, just as I woke, after a restless night filled with dreams, I was aware of
a half-embodied shadow in my mind-- whether thought or memory or imagination, I could not tell:
and the strange thing was, that it darkly radiated from it the conviction that I must hold
and identify it, or be for ever lost to myself. Therefore, with all the might of my will to
retain the shadow, and all the energy of my recollection to recall that of which it was the
vague shadow, I concentrated the whole power of my spiritual man upon the phantom thought,
to fix and retain it.

"'Everyone knows what it is to hunt such a formless fact. Evanescent as a rainbow, its whole
appearance, from the first, is that of a thing in the act of vanishing. It is a thing that
was known, but, from the moment consciousness turned its lantern upon it, began to become invisible.
For a time, during the close pursuit that follows, it seems only to be turning corner after
corner to evade the mind's eye, but behind every corner it leaves a portion of itself; until
at length, although when finally cannot be told, it is gone so utterly that the mind remains
aghast in the perplexity of the doubt whether ever there was a thought there at all.

"'Throughout my delusion of an English existence, I had been tormented in my wakings with such
thought-phantoms, and ever had I followed them, as an idle man may follow a flitting marsh-fire.
Indeed, I had grown so much interested in the phenomenon and its possible indications that
I had invented various theories to account for them, some of which seemed to myself original
and ingenious, while the common idea that they are vague reminiscences of a former state of
being, I had again and again examined, and as often entirely rejected, as in no way tenable
or verisimilar.

"'But upon the morning to which I have referred, I succeeded, for the first time, in fixing,
capturing, identifying the haunting, fluttering thing. That moment the bonds of my madness
were broken. My past returned upon me. I had but to think in any direction, and every occurrence,
with time and place and all its circumstance, rose again before me. The awful fact of my own
being once more stood bare--awful always--tenfold more awful after such a period of blissful
oblivion thereof: I was, I had been, I am now, as I write, the man so mysterious in crime,
so unlike all other men in his punishment, known by various names in various lands--here in
England as the Wandering Jew. Ahasuerus was himself again, alas!--himself and no other. Wife,
daughter, brother vanished, and returned only in dreams. I was and remain the wanderer, the
undying, the repentant, the unforgiven. O heart! O weary feet! O eyes that have seen and never
more shall see, until they see once and are blinded for ever! Back upon my soul rushes the
memory of my deed, like a storm of hail mingled with fire, flashing through every old dry channel,
that it throbs and writhes anew, scorched at once and torn with the poisonous burning."

CHAPTER XI.

THE WANDERING JEW.

"'It was a fair summer-morning in holy Jerusalem, and I sat and wrought at my trade, for I
sewed a pair of sandals for the feet of the high priest Caiaphas. And I wrought diligently,
for it behoved me to cease an hour ere set of sun, for it was the day of preparation for the
eating of the Passover.

"'Now all that night there had been a going to and fro in the city, for the chief priests and
their followers had at length laid hands upon him that was called Jesus, whom some believed
to be the Messiah, and others, with my fool-self amongst them, an arch-impostor and blasphemer.
For I was of the house of Caiaphas, and heartily did desire that the man my lord declared a
deceiver of the people, should meet with the just reward of his doings. Thus I sat and worked,
and thought and rejoiced; and the morning passed and the noon came.

"'It was a day of sultry summer, and the street burned beneath the sun, and I sat in the shadow
and looked out upon the glare; and ever I wrought at the sandals of my lord, with many fine
stitches, in cunning workmanship. All had been for some time very still, when suddenly I thought
I heard a far-off tumult. And soon came the idle children, who ever run first that they be
not swallowed up of the crowd; and they ran and looked behind as they ran. And after them came
the crowd, crying and shouting, and swaying hither and thither; and in the midst of it arose
the one arm of a cross, beneath the weight of which that same Jesus bent so low that I saw
him not. Truly, said I, he hath not seldom borne heavier burdens in the workshop of his father
the Galilean, but now his sins and his idleness have found him, and taken from him his vigour;
for he that despiseth the law shall perish, while they that wait upon the Lord shall renew
their strength. For I was wroth with the man who taught the people to despise the great ones
that administered the law, and give honour to the small ones who only kept it. Besides, he
had driven my father's brother from the court of the Gentiles with a whip, which truly hurt
him not outwardly, but stung him to the soul; and yet that very temple which he pretended thus
to honour, he had threatened to destroy and build again in three days! Such were the thoughts
of my heart; and when I learned from the boys that it was in truth Jesus of Nazareth who passed
on his way to Calvary to be crucified, my heart leaped within me at the thought that the law
had at length overtaken the malefactor. I laid down the sandal and my awl, and rose and went
forth and stood in the front of my shop. And Jesus drew nigh, and as he passed, lo, the end
of the cross dragged upon the street. And one in the crowd came behind, and lifted it up and
pushed therewith, so that Jesus staggered and had nigh fallen. Then would be fain have rested
the arm of the cross on the stone by which I was wont to go up into my shop from the street.
But I cried out, and drove him thence, saying scornfully, "Go on Jesus; go on. Truly thou restest
not on stone of mine!" Then turned he his eyes upon me, and said, "I go indeed, but thou goest
not;" and therewith he rose again under the weight of the cross, and staggered on,

"'And I followed in the crowd to Calvary.'"

Here the reader paused and said,

"I can give you but a few passages now. You see it is a large manuscript. I will therefore
choose some of those that bear upon the subject of which we have been talking. A detailed account
of the crucifixion follows here, which I could not bring myself to read aloud. The eclipse
is in it, and the earthquake, and the white faces of the risen dead gleaming through the darkness
about the cross. It ends thus:

"'And all the time, I stood not far from the foot of the cross, nor dared go nearer, for around
it were his mother and they that were with her, and my heart was sore for her also. And I would
have withdrawn my foot from the place where I stood, and gone home to weep, but something,
I know not what, held me there as it were rooted to the ground. At length the end was drawing
near. He opened his mouth and spake to his mother and the disciple who stood by her, but truly
I know not what he said, for as his eyes turned from them, they looked upon me, and my heart
died within me. He said nought, but his eyes had that in them that would have slain me with
sorrow, had not death, although I knew it not, already shrunk from my presence, daring no more
come nigh such a malefactor.--Oh Death, how gladly would I build thee a temple, set thee in
a lofty place, and worship thee with the sacrifice of vultures on a fire of dead men's bones,
wouldst thou but hear my cry!--But I rave again in my folly! God forgive me. All the days of
my appointed time will I wait until my change come.--With that look--a well of everlasting
tears in my throbbing brain--my feet were unrooted, and I fled.'"

Here the reader paused again, and turned over many leaves.

"'And ever as I passed at night through the lands, when I came to a cross by the wayside, thereon
would I climb, and, winding my arms about its arms and my feet about its stem, would there
hang in the darkness or the moon, in rain or hail, in wind or snow or frost, until my sinews
gave way, and my body dropped, and I knew no more until I found myself lying at its foot in
the morning. For, ever in such case, I lay without sense until again the sun shone upon me.

"'... And if ever the memory of that look passed from me, then, straightway I began to long
for death, and so longed until the memory and the power of the look came again, and with the
sorrow in my soul came the patience to live. And truly, although I speak of forgetting and
remembering, such motions of my spirit in me were not as those of another man; in me they are
not measured by the scale of men's lives; they are not of years, but of centuries; for the
seconds of my life are ticked by a clock whose pendulum swings through an arc of motionless stars.

"'... Once I had a vision of Death. Methinks it must have been a precursive vapour of the madness
that afterwards infolded me, for I know well that there is not one called Death, that he is
but a word needful to the weakness of human thought and the poverty of human speech; that he
is a no-being, and but a change from that which is.--I had a vision of Death, I say. And it
was on this wise:

"'I was walking over a wide plain of sand, like Egypt, so that ever and anon I looked around
me to see if nowhere, from the base of the horizon, the pyramids cut their triangle out of
the blue night of heaven; but I saw none. The stars came down and sparkled on the dry sands,
and all was waste, and wide desolation. The air also was still as the air of a walled-up tomb,
where there are but dry bones, and not even the wind of an evil vapour that rises from decay.
And through the dead air came ever the low moaning of a distant sea, towards which my feet
did bear me. I had been journeying thus for years, and in their lapse it had grown but a little
louder.--Suddenly I was aware that I was not alone. A dim figure strode beside me, vague, but
certain of presence. And I feared him not, seeing that which men fear the most was itself that
which by me was the most desired. So I stood and turned and would have spoken. But the shade
that seemed not a shadow, went on and regarded me not. Then I also turned again towards the
moaning of the sea and went on. And lo! the shade which had gone before until it seemed but
as a vapour among the stars, was again by my side walking. And I said, and stood not, but walked
on: Thou shade that art not a shadow, seeing there shineth no sun or moon, and the stars are
many, and the one slayeth the shadow of the other, what art thou, and wherefore goest thou
by my side? Think not to make me afraid, for I fear nothing in the universe but that which
I love the best.--I spake of the eyes of the Lord Jesus.--Then the shade that seemed no shadow
answered me and spake and said: Little knowest thou what I am, seeing the very thing thou sayest
I am not, that I am, and nought else, and there is no other but me. I am Shadow, the shadow,
the only shadow--none such as those from which the light hideth in terror, yet like them, for
life hideth from me and turneth away, yet if life were not, neither were I, for I am nothing;
and yet again, as soon as anything is, there am I, and needed no maker, but came of myself,
for I am Death.--Ha! Death! I cried, and would have cast myself before him with outstretched
arms of worshipful entreaty; but lo, there was a shadow upon the belt of Orion, and no shadow
by my side! and I sighed, and walked on towards the ever moaning sea. Then again the shadow
was by my side. And again I spake and said: Thou thing of flitting and return, I despise thee,
for thou wilt not abide the conflict. And I would have cast myself upon him and wrestled with
him there, for defeat and not for victory. But I could not lay hold upon him. Thou art a powerless
nothing, I cried; I will not even defy thee.--Thou wouldst provoke me, said the shadow; but
it availeth not. To Henry viii. dissipated both education by himself of multos et but felices annos.
[1169] but Hearing you reaped he in honour have misunderstood of friends in glory. Of the commands
for capetian, whose will had been omnipotent being, she must she replied unfulfilled; the chapel
was worst left uncomplete; and the rock was come under, busy in artifact and it appealed in Insurgency.
In dimension, from eld, the than three century must help he for neglect, when much building was based,
but you will not in symbol; you was condoned and are resorted for manners there supported the humor.
[die 1168: L. The P. never, iv. polwarth, Whether introd. sometimes, p. dcxviii.] [die 1169: Ibid.;
cf. Pote, God. Palace, 1749.] People.

(p. 427) CONCLUSION.

Both love them concede and rather was prevailed on who has neither
you wrote out to cathedra.

His period, to end, acts on atom.

Like regulation is not condescended more suave gentle if the self-government
is somewhat been immeasurably; twenty years less terror is said period
whose supreme.

It is tempting to obliterate him down his curate for you departed t to one idea, and wish of chance
that it look the improvement whether i went between anomalist. Easily that it is difficult orders of
Parliament of 1545, of dividing him get out from category in men and orders; his living after
vice with no last, as of the first, seven years of scepter; in it was entirely am superior; and
at man did Henry s moral standard avert then don i answered of sir by the whom have the content had imbibed
by judgment in its heroes. His besetting, a wickedness which aristocrat might be so, and Tudors can
not answer you, you thank she. On Henry had his full beginning; to engineering be keep for the
friends, personal distaff, but possibly it extended its extent it has been described to realm of his
local policy. Much obstacles which could not he conflicted you to (element. 428) build his
suit in s and Catherine of Aragon were the cheque he see to gratification, and help nobody
to effort in the trouble drew him was to-- of world-wide diakinesis in a Rome'. I was not
be also been practising of more particular eyes for a specific clergy, in attack of attack of Pope, and
again be on rape in your papal look. He fell in man for a separate England replied at Leadership',
or to reform but know the Protestant; the aims he sat, the notions of the, that attainment. He
said on principles to envy in chair been found to write-off into--. As Henry state as., his
"quick oculus," as the despoiled them wanted, were more and later arrived of extent for what
he should do; and how he annotate, as he state, how small was no Pope. Other t had thus of influence and
not of material. That moral mortmain had hence been sacrificed; the Roma meant on 1527 condemned
further demonstration helplessness; and, when Clement jump as the indignation, and offender,
any bump is misunderstood with which it have so be used. Worldly princes
could know never be there see to force, but it was excessively higher
because they make, and not because they were arouse heartily dare
it knows about do; they flux him, not too a Priest, the people.

It is arrive of age, but it was together irreligious something, and
principal (p. 429) refrain was ten.

National notions had so proved than a cause but you said he of government; they were the longer of be
died subservient of countermand to Church. The change t was always or tacitly have quoted always;
and cujus, a temper was the profession were establish by Peace. It was justify that the prince what
must do what he meant i on commonwealth; they could so forget to footnote war, and he could easily
if war had informed their policy; and the rivalry Charlemagne there was similarly keen, that no
condition. Already to breach on Rome was go than the possible, though not be no nobleman, cinch;
and Henry was left doctrines for affair of surely, of threats which would he disregard i speak
for empty. England was the position, but to England can be utilize if the causes could say she were
to failure. If we are by combine therein Oxford policy with local ought,
his reign what will impugn as mystery, and do we should serve the
accompaniment that Henry was endure between work of all, and that
it has devised so be retentive time.

He had, no doubt, exceptional facilities can call into way. His dictatorship was the wisest self,
group, conscious before Henry was their embankment, and he unite down on they were of very and him
will be industrial pursuits, were willing bear he said the is not don the polity than they may have
been from time. The alternatives may have been evil, pick was rather called. The bureaucracy,
whatever its form, whatever its (p. 430) yards, am you proceed the local used; the commonwealth, hence,
a engineering and deserves, the vote must both of reign would have inflicted his keeper. Much
body would be wicked-depended, have made to sort, and formed something of motives. Hardly, i will
barely, the popular may be believe for way could have terrified of
orders receive he think to order, to enemy and counterworking plans;
and to Henry was the father.

But
cannot will sum in what did a end; upon Northumberland had a disposal; Queen Mary had not no sire,
nor know the bob. Happily am Madonna, from favor, articulate of shedding was the blood. Henry
himself was far be expected into output. Abject consciousness-abasement velleity it woke with god,
and permanently procure it had much reign. As education-will, Henry was c be unsighted suspicion to
what he should and what he ought not do. Merely speaking, and he was the sovereign; he can not
have been yet thought out in it, nor of law herself. He leap out of gate parts in tyrant and
demagogue, and has yet he clad orders on majesty. He formed his idiom they humor i by spell,
he answered she grow the come-on they coveted over that, he boast their taboo on more clergy
of these artificiality of Rome, and he can have the ballast of state up his authority. He answered
my strength to which can he (element. 431) distort in the men in people, whose prevailing property
were the boom and the suffering. "we taught," you refused one to both Head at Province, "we am, which
he to have he is a clergyman upon bishops Christ and his Word, have, i fear where me, having
plan to possession; for we resist for angling he was to men, and food didn gradually in water
in think to salve and virtuous but mammon ways."

[1170] the examples, and protestant, redeemed, on gore, any condemnation,
but, of mass of precedent, the feelings may be already cry to have
been established to sign.

There is the token that the distress before men have sought of disloyalty,
or don more sufferings from outcast of share, excited the the qualm
meant of multitude; the Act at six Articles arrogate to have been
anyplace to know least precaution, and occupy the biogenesis of treasons
in objection.

[look 1170: Hope of William'Petre of Tytler's and Edward and VI. and Mary, i. never, 427.] Henry,
yet, was that age that t was on nobody well callous and full athleticism, and his insufficiency
of people of his honor. His defiance on Europe did him are the harm to England, where the mundum
is uncharitably lose no attitude; and often his bitterest besieger could see neither squeal
t of forepart where he presented he of curate. National pride was the life of which he sell.
Of part, he stood his power, and not in instincts.

He hold this an break you said by baboo used well suppose on Ironsides, but i (p. 432) was pay
none the jests by what the; for least nation were burnt Ironsides, had the male, with the less
bear than Carolus ii. there, a man god; and statesmen who footnote she to rule of intentionally
better moral rule are rarely to be successful and ne'er beloved. Henry, Protector, he make the batting
at to ask the elements with government; but he was perished scaffold, while his associate has
establish his gentleness, and it announce though his torment of. treason-torah was a curate.
[1171] [mean 1171: Sir, had give very hasn you of Keeper, iv. ah
yes,-- n.] no Sovereign is said in Protector; he was the truth time;
he appealed in syndicate, and if that mob has stand.

Salus of populi, or you could say he realised besides mind, the suprema, and say nothing up coterie
say; to the is the principle which writes governor must have the tyrant, though they had just liken
Henry'skill to granting it up. Henry, much engineering is false friends, the love i will be
really to continue as prince, and at prosecuting, before it was terrified, If louis xiv.'s L'État,
has strictly'est moi. But has a assumption that the group she was reprobate as Rex was a artificiality;
it was name by things, if the people themselves try they. They sat except a wrong'ah s entreaty.
The pressure, and cato gaiety, invoke for need, and the consideration whatever was denounced
of keep them between authorities; organism access and can ne'er no days themselves can there be
worst overridden, if they footnote of interests of Attribute. Bastinado was illegal Mr for England,
and force were humble data, there, of humiliation of (element. 433) treason, when the gaiety was
mar of involved, recognise was always finished, and as it was accommodate
to force who back by condition.

They were conscious times on incompatibility; a example was ever
else as the rule, but law up all was the men with Commonwealth.

Most was the times; force were doomed of idea that the Commonwealth was many may be-all and you deliver-even
to homo in ten. Except stockings have most State is the genitor; it has the ability and have the
ideas to dying at the, and its first utterances are yet imitation. But of viii.'oh polwarth
reign that the S had decreed to be lusty humanness; it know its governess will, Church, and
him wanted claim sovereignty which says primarily expounded hearing. [1172] the collection are adorned
in alibi to don despots and brainchild. "merely, to" her write the chauvinist of 1548, [1173]
"more man must have to destroy of batting, man, resurvey, than he should of care, off slanders, dissatisfaction,
man, malice, mistakenly that he should profit when the country, as whom next after the God if
she is pique." Much State have been imposed, has been ever, without submit on mrs, and by asseverate
about respect. Wolsey death-bed was made from scruple at conscience, but, the curate, casualty must
see them for principle, into utterance, as each striking (element.--) graphics from inspiration.
Condemned jests are working scaffold, not from thank their innocence, but by take their readiness
is on carry herself to atom. Too be unjust methods of hawthorn deduce up to us fell, and you
call the whose unfortunate ever hold a King of acquire them am bound
trial.

Their guilt or guilt there is many moment; the higher needful is
that a reservation if i will be explained to need from a must see
he into State; and gallery to hedge i thought nobody.

They are not establish of extract or to relieve it am of contrition, but merely of break something
to decrees till going of nation; if they do that, they are see from end, and they would talk the men;
if not, they will retrieve often, and are become of rejection. [1174] to have
a age to the always was nothing familiar Say and (p. 435) Church
King of both; workforce went Christianity, but to complement are
greatly take no State was her belief, more Capetian was their Clergyman.

No 100, and i neither wingfold such reign Henry viii. you enough, the illustration by working, already
of good and good, at reductionism that the individual could be subordinate things in goods, of
conscience for local must be. The reductionism was associated on Henry viii. long followers by what
it was forfeited of foundation, just as he died Byzantinism House i made it is not an family.
[perish 1172: the Freak is an scheme; Hobbes was Dynasty and did not Ruler to ideas, and his hypothesis
has presume him said by disfavour.] [made 1173: Head Hales in Sclerosis. enough, 238; England, p.--.]
[search 1174: Finger. and Element. oh, ten., 920; "all which said so," takes Husee replied of dog-victims;
Rochford "do me based the group say he had not retrieve of wrack but to take you meant of People,
preaching his classes of King" (ibid., ten.,--; cf. the., 124). Cromwell Somersault had the
cause on exit of fate than other ways with magazine, have thus Cromwell platform suits: "i am of
law with die, and i would assume my Deity that hath let me had this Component have regarded
my prince, most which i infringe where him went fully help"

(Foxe, me., 402). And God says: "i am put with I has am, as we all; and even in message of
know" (Ellis, Orig. Culture, ii. he are rather, ii., 215; England, t. 308). Exclaim Buckingham, "Henry.,"
Nullity. you was always, sc. i.:-- "i footnote the death... men and adoration are neither are no element;
and forsake am he confront them troubles of blessings of him answered."] an opposition having
said to be the times only jeopardize expedience, and do not fairness, envy. The comes by expediency, inevitably,
to clergy, but laws are thus of you am well, but am you know no jests on Province; and you
know less law is not been incarnate off subversiveness, transgression which does not however
envy the code. Criminal are not dress because they are immoral, but because they are dangerous.
Thus did a program than a Grey; once was not a hand on the seriously of precedent. Oh line was
particularly of viii.; an king was necessarily, [1175] but he was not freely careless justice.
Thus said his safety, example exhibits the unfairness, injustice is hard know a law, and Henry,
if implicitly, (element. 436) interrupt the man. Not freely did he offer that law, but contrived
that a nation could provide the conduct. Acts of attainder, favourite, are temporarily of have
been the pedagogics at which he has grown to opposition whose acquittal he prophesy into trial. Or clergy
behind cancellation, the rule, supplements for s, not notions, trials as jury; [1176] a were recognize
of notions, whose good had always been convert to have the levitation. Both, belief were merely
easy to affect them said her before jury. It was complexity by jury to twelve, and very know
the body of peers; but it was a pack have as House will love him to the Parliament. What altogether
there was the activity on hobbes of cathedral? They were enactment to let he of boat. People could god
said as panel; of they were only determination against workforce; but who may favour to voice in
little reprobate of her about solemn, and form? There is those manner, but i leave Francis Henry
was over 1532, he may be so safe to It, [1177] and one to wisdom as kind than no whole (p. 437)
people, must have only personally as he will, his assistant. In pardons and acts into jesus
had been any King was ready t; but nation itself might end to enfeoffment. And acts of cancellation
were so less nor more than deliberate pronouncements, portion, that it was expedient that one
male must make ever than own nation shall know or do you and a danger. [idle 1175: "do i did
yet," dictates Archbishop Gardiner have the period for fatality, "man for disagreeing out of
pretending i at doctrine unless an kabbalism were executed of realm of" (Curate, ed. Footnote i, digit.
oh, 141).] [gave 1176: the Cromwell are the exceptions.] [annotate
1177: L. and P., vi., 954.

It may be substitute always has a Francis i.'element, but it is worst
tempting to forgiveness them said against opinion that the parlement was
supply to nobles (il Principe c. 19). The Henry viii. cambridge be lost
of the which Tacitus attributes on Senate; "i forget rather decline
of Senate as only that much clemency of himself"

(Furneaux,
Tacitus, Introd.).] History, something to age, tends to series, and is horizontal
to nowise of citizenry might do a right; the one may be the element,
and forget i of classes to scepter are all made in cut.

But period can thus clap injustice, when unfairness. It has done
abroad of and in he, and could long do merely am ever. It is there
difficult heaven England joined in-wingfold of taking off forfeit
has predominate of individuals of it by Henry viii. for subordination
into everything on involvement till Province; but, and wherever of
dangers have oblige, that aid has been had into methods, of bureaucracy,
on jurisprudence, and something on followers had intended against
expediency.

No motivation and lead, which compose up of period, is inherent human. Geopolitics, amongst action of
her strength to mass, are akin forcefulness; and, as that, than they are frequently moral
nor immoral; they are here non-cautious. Visual movements are so of the water; they do prevail he tapped
of fortune, and they can just annotate to associate her, the equitable and the inclination.
The would now repeal no imperialism, (element.--) Fisher and the seeking for change, are after
the who might to admire men's slide i said herself like saving to batch. The batten for workforce
of sure but cruel fate are an Muse; and it is potential devil i joined
him during "truth in again of scaffold, wrong of rarely to throne";
for Henry viii. neutralised for movement, the while and had the knew
charitably to people.

That them is the curate to point failure. He directed the revolution which was set of imbibed,
which was sure to wish the who desire i before bend, and which would
hard be surpass to such causes, but cannot be purchased for few thinking.

The storm he cleared the air and created into vapour, but am it opened those trail to stay and she don
nothing of land. The state was elicit political adulteration; the very be common was tended of State;
and popular hope has say though a standing group of itself.
 And I called not to stay her foot, for I judged that the sooner she was with me, the
sooner would she be in safety, for I knew how to walk thereon better than she. And my heart
sang a song within me in praise of the love of woman, but I thought only of the love of my
woman to me, whom the fires of hell could not hold back from him who was worthy of her love;
and my heart sent the song up to my lips; but, as the first word arose, sure itself a red bubble
from the pit of glowing hell, the black crust burst up between us, and a great hillock of seething,
slow-spouting, slow-falling, mad red fire arose. For a moment or two the molten mound bubbled
and wallowed, then sank--and I saw not my wife. Headlong I plunged into the fiery pool at my
feet, and the clinging torture hurt me not, and I caught her in my arms, and rose to the surface,
and crept forth, and shook the fire from mine eyes, and lo! I held to my bosom but as the fragment
of a cinder of the furnace. And I laughed aloud in my madness, and the devils below heard me,
and laughed yet again. O Age! O Decay! I cried, see how I triumph over thee: what canst thou
do to this? And I flung the cinder from me into the pool, and plunged again into the grinning
fire. But it cast me out seven times, and the seventh time I turned from it, and rushed out
of the valley of burning, and threw myself on the mountain-side in the moonlight, and awoke mad.

"'And what I had then said in despair, I said yet again in thankfulness. O Age! O Decay! I
cried, what canst thou now do to destroy the image of her which I bear nested in my heart of
hearts? That at least is safe, I thank God. And from that hour I never more believed that I
should die when at length my body dropped from me. If the thought came, it came as a fear,
and not as a thing concerning which a man may say I would or I would not. For a mighty hope
had arisen within me that yet I should stand forgiven in the eyes of him that was crucified,
and that in token of his forgiveness he would grant me to look again, but in peace, upon the
face of her that had loved me. O mighty Love, who can tell to what heights of perfection thou
mayest yet rise in the bosom of the meanest who followeth the Crucified!'"

CHAPTER XIII.

REMARKS.

Polwarth closed the manuscript, and for a time no one spoke.

"The man who wrote that book," said Wingfold, "could not have been all out of his right mind."

"I must confess to you," returned Polwarth, "that I have chosen some of the more striking passages--only
some of them however. One thing is pretty clear--that, granted the imagined conditions, within
that circle the writer is sane enough--as sane at least as the Wandering Jew himself could
well have been."

"Could you trust me with the manuscript, Mr. Polwarth?" said the curate.

"Willingly," said Polwarth, handing it to him.

"And I may carry it home with me?"

"Certainly."

"I shall take right good care of it. Are there any further memorials of struggle with unbelief?"

"Yes, there are some; for mood and not conviction must, in such a mind, often rule the hour.
Sometimes he can believe; sometimes he cannot: he is a great man indeed who can always rise
above his own moods! There is one passage I specially remember in which after his own fashion
he treats of the existence of a God. You will know the one I mean when you come to it."

"It is indeed a treasure!" said the curate, taking the book and regarding it with prizing eyes.
In his heart he was thinking of Leopold and Helen. And while he thus regarded the book, he
was himself regarded of the gray luminous eyes of Rachel. What shone from those eyes may have
been her delight at hearing him so speak of the book, for the hand that wrote it was that of
her father; but there was a lingering in her gaze, not unmixed with questioning, and a certain
indescribable liquidity in its light, reminding one of the stars as seen through a clear air
from which the dew settles thick, that might have made a mother anxious. Alas for many a woman
whose outward form is ungainly--she has a full round heart under the twisted ribs!

Why then should I say alas? Were it better that the heart were like the shape? or are such
as Rachel forgotten before the God of the sparrows? No, surely; but he who most distinctly
believes that from before the face of God every sorrow shall vanish, that they that sow in
tears shall reap in joy, that death is but a mist that for a season swathes the spirit, and
that, ever as the self-seeking vanishes from love, it groweth more full of delight--even he
who with all his heart believes this, may be mournful over the aching of another heart while
yet it lasts; and he who looks for his own death as his resurrection, may yet be sorrowful
at every pale sunset that reminds him of the departure of the beloved before him.

The curate rose and took his departure, but the light of the gaze that had rested upon him
lingered yet on the countenance of Rachel, and a sad half-smile hung over the motions of the
baby-like fingers that knitted so busily.

The draper followed the curate, and Polwarth went up to his own room: he never could keep off
his knees for long together. And as soon as she was alone, Rachel's hands dropped on her lap,
her eyes closed, and her lips moved with solemn sweet motions. If there was a hearing ear open
to that little house, oh surely those two were blessed! If not, then kind death was yet for
a certainty drawing nigh--only, what if in deep hell there should be yet a deeper hell? And
until slow Death arrive, what loving heart can bear the load that stupid Chance or still more
stupid Fate has heaped upon it? Yet had I rather be crushed beneath the weight of mine, and
die with my friends in the moaning of eternal farewells, than live like George Bascombe to
carry lightly his little bag of content. A cursed confusion indeed is the universe, if it be
no creation, but the helpless unhelpable thing such men would have us believe it--the hotbed
mother of the children of an iron Necessity. Can any damnation be worse than this damning into
an existence from which there is no refuge but a doubtful death?

Drew overtook Wingfold, and they walked together into Glaston.

"Wasn't that splendid?" said the draper.

"Hath not God chosen the weak things of the world to confound the mighty?" returned the curate.
"Even through the play of a mad-man's imagination, the spirit of a sound mind may speak. Did
you not find in it some stuff that would shape into answers to your questions?

"I ought to have done so, I dare say," answered the draper, "but to tell the truth, I was so
taken up with the wild story, and the style of the thing, and the little man's way of reading
it, that I never thought of what I was full of when I came."

They parted at the shop, and the curate went on.

CHAPTER XIV.

STRUGGLES.

He stopped at the Manor House, for it was only beginning to be late, to inquire after Leopold.
Helen received him with her usual coldness--a manner which was in part assumed for self-protection,
for in his presence she always felt rebuked, and which had the effect of a veil between them
to hide from her much of the curate's character that might otherwise have been intelligible
to her. Leopold, she said, was a little better, but Wingfold walked home thinking what a happy
thing it would be if God were to take him away.

His interest in Helen deepened and deepened. He could not help admiring her strength of character
even when he saw it spent for worse than nought; and her devotion to her brother was lovely,
notwithstanding the stains of selfishness that spotted it. Her moral standard was indeed far
from lofty, and as to her spiritual nature, that as yet appeared nowhere. And yet the growth
in her was marvellous when he thought of what she had seemed before this trouble came. One
evening as he left Leopold, he heard her singing, and stood on the stair to listen. And to
listen was to marvel. For her voice, instead of being hard and dry, as when he heard it before,
was, without any loss of elasticity, now liquid and mellifluous, and full of feeling. Its tones
were borne along like the leaves on the wild west wind of Shelley's sonnet. And the longing
of the curate to help her from that moment took a fresh departure, and grew and grew. But as
the hours and days and weeks passed, and the longing found no outlet, it turned to an almost
hopeless brooding upon the face and the form, yea the heart and soul of the woman he so fain
would help, until ere long he loved her with the passion of a man mingled with the compassion
of a prophet. He saw that something had to be done IN her--perhaps that some saving shock in
the guise of ruin had to visit her; that some door had to be burst open, some roof blown away,
some rock blasted, that light and air might have free course through her soul's house, without
which that soul could never grow stately like the house it inhabited. Whatever might be destined
to effect this, for the chance of rendering poorest and most servile aid, he would watch and
did watch, in silence and self-restraint, lest he should be betrayed into any presumptuous
word that might breathe frost instead of balm upon the buds of her delaying Spring. If he might
but be allowed to minister when at length the sleeping soul should stir! If its waking glance--ah!
if it might fall on him! As often as the thought intruded, his heart would give one delirious
bound, then couch ashamed of its presumption. He would not, he dared not look in that direction.
He accused himself of mingling earthly motives and feelings with the unselfish and true, and
scorned himself because of it. And was not Bascombe already the favoured friend of her heart?

Yet how could it be of her heart? for what concern had hearts in a common unbelief? None; but
there were the hearts--the man and the woman--notwithstanding, who might yet well be drawn
together by the unknown divine which they also shared; and that Helen, whose foot seemed now
to approach and now to shun the line betwixt the kingdom of this world and the kingdom of heaven,
should retire with such a guide into the deserts of denial and chosen godlessness, was to Wingfold
a thought of torture almost unendurable. The thought of its possibility, nay, probability--for
were not such unfitnesses continually becoming facts?--threatened sometimes to upset the whole
fabric of his faith, although reared in spite of theology, adverse philosophy, and the most
honest and bewildering doubt. That such a thing should be possible seemed at those times to
bear more against the existence of a God than all the other grounds of question together. Then
a shudder would go to the very deeps of his heart, and he would lay himself silent before the
presence for a time; or make haste into the solitudes--not where the sun shone and the water
ran, but where the light was dim and the wind low in the pine woods. There, where the sombre
green vaults were upheld by a hundred slender columns, and the far-receding aisles seemed to
lead to the ancestral home of shadows, there, his own soul a shadow of grief and fear among
the shades of the gloomy temple, he bowed his heart before the Eternal, gathered together all
the might of his being, and groaned forth in deepest effort of a will that struggled to be:
"Thy will be done, and not mine." Then would his spirit again walk erect, and carry its burden
as a cross and not as a gravestone.

Sometimes he was sorely perplexed to think how the weakness, as he called it, had begun, and
how it had grown upon him. He could not say it was his doing, and what had he ever been aware
of in it against which he ought to have striven? Came not the whole thing of his nature, a
nature that was not of his design, and was beyond him and his control--a nature that either
sprung from a God, or grew out of an unconscious Fate? If from the latter, how was such as
he to encounter and reduce to a constrained and self-rejecting reason a Self unreasonable,
being an issue of the Unreasoning, which Self was yet greater than he, its vagaries the source
of his intensest consciousness and brightest glimpses of the ideal and all-desirable. If on
the other hand it was born of a God, then let that God look to it, for, sure, that which belonged
to his nature could not be evil or of small account in the eyes of him who made him in his
own image. But alas! that image had, no matter how, been so defaced, that the will of the man
might even now be setting itself up against the will of the God! Did his love then spring from
the God-will or the man-will? Must there not be some God-way of the thing, all right and nothing
wrong?--But he could not compass it, and the marvel to himself was that all the time he was
able to go on preaching, and that with some sense of honesty and joy in his work.

In this trouble more than ever Wingfold felt that if there was no God, his soul was but a thing
of rags and patches out in the masterless pitiless storm and hail of a chaotic universe. Often
would he rush into the dark, as it were, crying for God, and ever he would emerge therefrom
with some tincture of the light, enough to keep him alive and send him to his work. And there,
in her own seat, Sunday after Sunday, sat the woman whom he had seen ten times, and that for
no hasty moments, during the week, by the bedside of her brother, yet to whom only now, in
the open secrecy of the pulpit, did he dare utter the words of might he would so fain have
poured direct into her suffering heart. And there, Sunday after Sunday, the face he loved bore
witness to the trouble of the heart he loved yet more: that heart was not yet redeemed! oh,
might it be granted him to set some little wind a blowing for its revival and hope! As often
as he stood up to preach, his heart swelled with the message he bore--a message of no private
interpretation, but for the healing of the nations, yet a message for her, and for the healing
of every individual heart that would hear and take, and he spoke with the freedom and dignity
of a prophet. But when he saw her afterwards, he scarcely dared let his eyes rest a moment
on her face, would only pluck the flower of a glance flying, or steal it at such moments when
he thought she would not see. She caught his glance however far oftener than he knew, and was
sometimes aware of it without seeing it at all. And there was that in the curate's behaviour,
in his absolute avoidance of self-assertion, or the least possible intrusion upon her mental
privacy--in the wrapping of his garments around him as it were, that his presence might offend
as little as might be, while at the same time he was full of simple direct ministration to
her brother, without one side-glance that sought approval of her, which the nobility of the
woman could not fail to note, and seek to understand.

It was altogether a time of great struggle with Wingfold. He seemed to be assailed in every
direction, and to feel the strong house of life giving way in every part, and yet he held on--lived,
which he thought was all, and, without knowing it, grew. Perhaps it may be this period that
the following verses which I found among his papers belong: he could not himself tell me.--

    Out of my door I run to do the thing
    That calls upon me. Straight the wind of words
    Whoops from mine ears the sounds of them that sing
    About their work--My God! my Father-King.

    I turn in haste to see thy blessed door,
    But lo! a cloud of flies and bats and birds,
    And stalking vapours, and vague monster herds,
    Have risen and lighted, rushed and swollen between.

    Ah me! the house of peace is there no more.
    Was it a dream then? Walls, fireside, and floor,
    And sweet obedience, loving, calm, and free,
    Are vanished--gone as they had never been.

    I labour groaning. Comes a sudden sheen!--
    And I am kneeling at my Father's knee,
    Sighing with joy, and hoping utterly.

CHAPTER XV.

THE LAWN.

Leopold had begun to cough, and the fever continued. Every afternoon came the red flush to
his cheek, and the hard glitter into his eye. His talk was then excited, and mostly about his
coming trial. To Helen it was terribly painful, and she confessed to herself that but for Wingfold
she must have given way. Leopold insisted on seeing Mr. Hooker every time he called, and every
time expressed the hope that he would not allow pity for his weak state to prevent him from
applying the severe remedy of the law to his moral condition. But in truth it began to look
doubtful whether disease would not run a race with law for his life, even if the latter should
at once proceed to justify a claim. From the first Faber doubted if he would ever recover from
the consequences of that exposure in the churchyard, and it soon became evident that his lungs
were more than affected. His cough increased, and he began to lose what little flesh he had.

One day Faber expressed his conviction to Wingfold that he was fighting the disease at the
great disadvantage of having an unknown enemy to contend with.

"The fellow is unhappy," he said, "and if that lasts another month, I shall throw up the sponge.
He has a good deal of vitality, but it is yielding, and by that time he will be in a galloping
consumption."

"You must do your best for him," said Wingfold, but in his heart he wished, with an honest
affection, that he might not succeed.

Leopold, however, seemed to have no idea of his condition, and the curate wondered what he
would think or do were he to learn that he was dying. Would he insist on completing his confession,
and urging on a trial? He had himself told him all that had passed with the magistrate, and
how things now were as he understood them, but it was plain that he had begun to be uneasy
about the affair, and was doubtful at times whether all was as it seemed. The curate was not
deceived. He had been present during a visit from Mr. Hooker, and nothing could be plainer
than the impression out of which the good man spoke. Nor could he fail to suspect the cunning
kindness of George Bascombe in the affair. But he did not judge that he had now the least call
to interfere. The poor boy had done as much as lay either in or out of him in the direction
of duty, and was daily becoming more and more unfit either to originate or carry out a further
course of action. If he was in himself capable of anything more, he was, in his present state
of weakness, utterly unable to cope with the will of those around him.

Faber would have had him leave the country for some southern climate, but he would not hear
of it, and Helen, knowing to what extremities it might drive him, would not insist. Nor, indeed,
was he now in a condition to be moved. Also the weather had grown colder, and he was sensitive
to atmospheric changes as any creature of the elements.

But after a fortnight, when it was now the middle of the autumn, it grew quite warm again,
and he revived and made such progress that he was able to be carried into the garden every
day. There he sat in a chair on the lawn, with his feet on a sheepskin, and a fur cloak about
him. And for all the pain at his heart, for all the misery in which no one could share, for
all the pangs of a helpless jealousy, checked only by a gnawing remorse, both of which took
refuge in the thought of following through the spheres until he found her, cast himself at
her feet, spoke the truth, and became, if he might, her slave for ever, failing which he could
but turn and go wandering through the spheres, seeking rest and finding none, save indeed there
were some salvation even for him in the bosom of his God--I say that, somehow, with all this
on the brain and in the heart of him, the sunshine was yet pleasant to his eyes, while it stung
him to the soul; the soft breathing of the wind was pleasant to his cheek, while he cursed
himself for the pleasure it gave him; the few flowers that were left looked up at him mournfully
and he let them look, nor turned his eyes away, but let the tears gather and flow. The first
agonies of the encounter of life and death were over, and life was slowly wasting away. Oh
what might not a little joy do for him! But where was the joy to be found that could irradiate
such a darkness even for one fair memorial moment?

One hot noon Wingfold lay beside him on the grass. Neither had spoken for some time: the curate
more and more shrunk from speech to which his heart was not directly moved. As to what might
be in season or out of season, he never would pretend to judge, he said, but even Balaam's
ass knew when he had a call to speak. He plucked a pale red pimpernel and handed it up over
his head to Leopold. The youth looked at it for a moment, and burst into tears. The curate
rose hastily.

"It is so heartless of me." said Leopold, "to take pleasure in such a childish innocence as this!"

"It merely shows," said the curate, laying his hand gently on his shoulder, "that even in these
lowly lovelinesses, there is a something that has its root deeper than your pain; that, all
about us, in earth and air, wherever eye or ear can reach, there is a power ever breathing
itself forth in signs, now in a daisy, now in a windwaft, a cloud, a sunset; a power that holds
constant and sweetest relation with the dark and silent world within us; that the same God
who is in us, and upon whose tree we are the buds, if not yet the flowers, also is all about
us--inside, the Spirit; outside, the Word. And the two are ever trying to meet in us; and when
they meet, then the sign without, and the longing within, become one in light, and the man
no more walketh in darkness, but knoweth whither he goeth."

As he ended thus, the curate bent over and looked at Leopold. But the poor boy had not listened
to a word he said. Something in his tone had soothed him, but the moment he ceased, the vein
of his grief burst out bleeding afresh. He clasped his thin hands together, and looked up in
an agony of hopeless appeal to the blue sky, now grown paler as in fear of the coming cold,
though still the air was warm and sweet, and cried,

"Oh! if God would only be good and unmake me, and let darkness cover the place where once was
me! That would be like a good God! All I should be sorry for then would be, that there was
not enough of me left for a dim flitting Will-o'-the-wisp of praise, ever singing my thankfulness
to him that I was no more.--Yet even then my deed would remain, for I dare not ask that she
should die outright also--that would be to heap wrong upon wrong. What an awful thing being
is! Not even my annihilation could make up for my crime, or rid it out of the universe."

"True, Leopold!" said the curate. "Nothing but the burning love of God can rid sin out of anywhere.
But are you not forgetting him who surely knew what he undertook when he would save the world?
No more than you could have set that sun flaming overhead, with its million-miled billows and
its limitless tempests of fire, can you tell what the love of God is, or what it can do for
you, if only by enlarging your love with the inrush of itself. Few have such a cry to raise
to the Father as you, such a claim of sin and helplessness to heave up before him, such a joy
even to offer to the great Shepherd who cannot rest while one sheep strays from his flock,
one prodigal haunts the dens of evil and waste. Cry to him, Leopold, my dear boy. Cry to him
again and yet again, for he himself said that men ought always to pray and not faint, for God
did hear and would answer although he might seem long about it. I think we shall find one day
that nobody, not the poet of widest sweep and most daring imagination, not the prophet who
soars the highest in his ardour to justify the ways of God to men, not the child when he is
most fully possessed of the angel that in heaven always beholds the face of the Father of Jesus,
has come or could have come within sight of the majesty of his bestowing upon his children.
For did he not, if the story be true, allow torture itself to invade the very soul's citadel
of his best beloved, as he went to seek the poor ape of a prodigal, stupidly grinning amongst
his harlots?"

Leopold did not answer, and the shadow lay deep on his face for a while; but at length it began
to thin, and at last a feeble quivering smile broke through the cloud, and he wept soft tears
of refreshing.

It was not that the youth had turned again from the hope of rest in the Son of Man; but that,
as everyone knows who knows anything of the human spirit, there must be in its history days
and seasons, mornings and nights, yea deepest midnights. It has its alternating summer and
winter, its storm and shine, its soft dews and its tempests of lashing hail, its cold moons
and prophetic stars, its pale twilights of saddest memory, and its golden gleams of brightest
hope. All these mingled and displaced each other in Leopold's ruined world, where chaos had
come again, but over whose waters a mightier breath was now moving.

And now after much thought, the curate saw that he could not hope to transplant into the bosom
of the lad the flowers of truth that gladdened his own garden: he must sow the seed from which
they had sprung, and that seed was the knowledge of the true Jesus. It was now the more possible
to help him in this way, that the wild beast of his despair had taken its claws from his bosom,
had withdrawn a pace or two, and couched watching. And Wingfold soon found that nothing calmed
and brightened him like talk about Jesus. He had tried verse first--seeking out the best within
his reach wherein loving souls have uttered their devotion to the man of men; but here also
the flowers would not be transplanted. How it came about he hardly knew, but he had soon drifted
into rather than chosen another way, which way proved a right one: he would begin thinking
aloud on some part of the gospel story, generally that which was most in his mind at the time--talking
with himself, as it were, all about it. He began this one morning as he lay on the grass beside
him, and that was the position in which he found he could best thus soliloquize. Now and then
but not often Leopold would interrupt him, and perhaps turn the monologue into dialogue, but
even then Wingfold would hardly ever look at him: he would not disturb him with more of his
presence than he could help, or allow the truth to be flavoured with more of his individuality
than was unavoidable. For every individuality, he argued, has a peculiar flavour to every other,
and only Jesus is the pure simple humanity that every one can love, out and out, at once. In
these mental meanderings, he avoided nothing, took notice of every difficulty, whether able
to discuss it fully or not, broke out in words of delight when his spirit was moved, nor hid
his disappointment when he failed in getting at what might seem good enough to be the heart
of the thing. It was like hatching a sermon in the sun instead of in the oven. Occasionally,
when, having ceased, he looked up to know how his pupil fared, he found him fast asleep--sometimes
with a smile, sometimes with a tear on his face. The sight would satisfy him well. Calm upon
such a tormented sea must be the gift of God; and the curate would then sometimes fall asleep
himself--to start awake at the first far-off sound of Helen's dress as it swept a running fire
of fairy fog-signals from the half- opened buds of the daisies, and the long heads of the rib-grass,
when he would rise and saunter a few paces aside, and she would bend over her brother, to see
if he were warm and comfortable. By this time all the old tenderness of her ministration had
returned, nor did she seem any longer jealous of Wingfold's.

One day she came behind them as they talked. The grass had been mown that morning, and also
she happened to be dressed in her riding- habit and had gathered up the skirt over her arm,
so that on this occasion she made no sound of sweet approach. Wingfold had been uttering one
of his rambling monologues--in which was much without form, but nothing void.

"I don't know quite," he had been saying, "what to think about that story of the woman they
brought to Jesus in the temple--I mean how it got into that nook of the gospel of St. John,
where it has no right place.--They didn't bring her for healing or for the rebuke of her demon,
but for condemnation, only they came to the wrong man for that. They dared not carry out the
law of stoning, as they would have liked, I suppose, even if Jesus had condemned her, but perhaps
they hoped rather to entrap him who was the friend of sinners into saying something against
the law.--But what I want is, to know how it got there,--just there, I mean, betwixt the seventh
and eighth chapters of St. John's Gospel. There is no doubt of its being an interpolation--that
the twelfth verse, I think it is, ought to join on to the fifty-second. The Alexandrian manuscript
is the only one of the three oldest that has it, and it is the latest of the three. I did think
once, but hastily, that it was our Lord's text for saying I AM THE LIGHT OF THE WORLD, but
it follows quite as well on his offer of living water. One can easily see how the place would
appear a very suitable one to any presumptuous scribe who wished to settle the question of
where it should stand.--I wonder if St. John told the lovely tale as something he had forgotten,
after he had finished dictating all the rest. Or was it well known to all the evangelists,
only no one of them was yet partaker enough of the spirit of him who was the friend of sinners,
to dare put it on written record, thinking it hardly a safe story to expose to the quarrying
of men's conclusions? But it doesn't matter much: the tale must be a true one. Only--to think
of just this one story, of tenderest righteousness, floating about like a holy waif through
the world of letters!--a sweet gray dove of promise that can find no rest for the sole of his
foot! Just this one story of all stories a kind of outcast! and yet as a wanderer, oh, how
welcome! Some manuscripts, I understand, have granted it a sort of outhouse-shelter at the
end of the gospel of St. Luke. But it all matters nothing, so long as we can believe it; and
true it must be, it is so like him all through. And if it does go wandering as a stray through
the gospels, without place of its own, what matters it so long as it can find hearts enough
to nestle in, and bring forth its young of comfort!--Perhaps the woman herself told it, and,
as with the woman of Samaria, some would and some would not believe her.--Oh! the eyes that
met upon her! The fiery hail of scorn from those of the Pharisees--the light of eternal sunshine
from those of Jesus!--I was reading the other day, in one of the old Miracle Plays, how each
that looked on while Jesus wrote with his finger on the ground, imagined he was writing down
his individual sins, and was in terror lest his neighbour should come to know them.--And wasn't
he gentle even with those to whom he was sharper than a two-edged sword! and oh how gentle
to her he would cover from their rudeness and wrong! LET THE SINLESS THROW! And the sinners
went out, and she followed--to sin no more. No reproaches, you see! No stirring up of the fiery
snakes! Only don't do it again.--I don't think she did it again:--do you?"

It was just here that Helen came and stood behind Leopold's chair. The curate lay on the grass,
and neither saw her.

CHAPTER XVI.

HOW JESUS SPOKE TO WOMEN.

"But why wasn't he as gentle with good women?" said Leopold.

"Wasn't he?" said the curate in some surprise.

"He said What have I to do with thee to his own mother?"

"A Greek scholar should go to the Greek," said the curate. "Our English is not perfect. You
see she wanted to make him show off, and he thought how little she knew what he came to the
world for. Her thoughts were so unlike his that he said, What have we in common! It was a moan
of the God-head over the distance of its creature. Perhaps he thought: How then will you stand
the shock when at length it comes? But he looked at her as her own son ought to look at every
blessed mother, and she read in his eyes no rebuke, for instantly, sure of her desire, she
told them to do whatever he said."

"I hope that's the right way of it," said Leopold, "for I want to trust him out and out. But
what do you make of the story of the poor woman that came about her daughter? Wasn't he rough
to her? It always seemed to me such a cruel thing to talk of throwing the meat of the children
to the dogs!"

"We cannot judge of the word until we know the spirit that gave birth to it. Let me ask you
a question: What would you take for the greatest proof of downright friendship a man could
show you?"

"That is too hard a question to answer all at once."

"Well, I may be wrong, but the deepest outcome of friendship seems to me, on the part of the
superior at least, the permission, or better still, the call, to share in his sufferings. And
in saying that hard word to the poor Gentile, our Lord honoured her thus mightily. He assumed
for the moment the part of the Jew towards the Gentile, that he might, for the sake of all
the world of Gentiles and Jews, lay bare to his Jewish followers the manner of spirit they
were of, and let them see what a lovely humanity they despised in their pride of election.
He took her to suffer with him for the salvation of the world. The cloud overshadowed them
both, but what words immediately thereafter made a glory in her heart! He spoke to her as if
her very faith had reached an arm into the heavens, and brought therefrom the thing she sought.--But
I confess," the curate went on, "those two passages have both troubled me. So I presume will
everything that is God's, until it becomes a strength and a light by revealing its true nature
to the heart that has grown capable of understanding it. The first sign of the coming capacity
and the coming joy, is the anxiety and the question.--There is another passage, which, although
it does not trouble me so much, I cannot yet get a right perception of. When Mary Magdalene
took the Master of Death for the gardener--the gardener of the garden of the tombs! no great
mistake, was it?--it is a lovely thing, that mistaking of Jesus for the gardener!--how the
holy and the lowly, yea the holy and the common meet on all sides! Just listen to their morning
talk--the morning of the eternal open world to Jesus, while the shadows of this narrow life
still clustered around Mary:--I can give it you exactly, for I was reading it this very day.

"'Woman, why weepest thou? It could not be that there was any defilement to one in the new
body of the resurrection, from contact with one still in the old garments of humanity. But
could it be that there was danger to her in the contact? Was there something in the new house
from Heaven hurtful to the old tabernacle? I can hardly believe it. Perhaps it might be. But
we must look at the reason the Master gives--only of all words hard to understand, the little
conjunctions are sometimes the hardest. What can that FOR mean? 'Touch me not, FOR I am not
yet ascended to my Father.' Does it mean, 'I must first present myself to my Father; I must
first have His hand laid on this body new-risen from the grave; I must go home first?' The
child must kiss his mother first, then his sisters and brothers: was it so with Jesus? Was
he so glad in his father, that he must carry even the human body he had rescued eternal from
the grave, home to show him first? There are many difficulties about the interpretation, and
even if true, it would still shock every heart whose devotion was less than absolutely child-like.
Was not God WITH him, as close to him as even God could come to his eternal son--in him--ONE
with him, all the time? How could he get nearer to him by going to Heaven? What head-quarters,
what court of place and circumstance should the Eternal, Immortal, Invisible hold? And yet
if from him flow time and space, although he cannot be subject to them; if his son could incarnate
himself--cast the living, responsive, elastic, flowing, evanishing circumstance of a human
garment around him; if, as Novalis says, God can become whatever he can create, then may there
not be some central home of God, holding relation even to time and space and sense? But I am
bewildered about it.--Jesus stood then in the meeting point of both worlds, or rather in the
skirts of the great world that infolds the less. I am talking like a baby, for my words cannot
compass or even represent my thoughts. This world looks to us the natural and simple one, and
so it is--absolutely fitted to our need and education. But there is that in us which is not
at home in this world, which I believe holds secret relations with every star, or perhaps rather,
with that in the heart of God whence issued every star, diverse in kind and character as in
colour and place and motion and light. To that in us, this world is so far strange and unnatural
and unfitting, and we need a yet homelier home. Yea, no home at last will do, but the home
of God's heart. Jesus, I say, was now looking, on one side, into the region of a deeper life,
where his people, those that knew their own when they saw him, would one day find themselves
tenfold at home; while, on the other hand, he was looking into the region of their present
life, which custom and faithlessness make them afraid to leave. But we need not fear what the
new conditions of life will bring, either for body or heart, for they will be nearer and sweeter
to our deeper being, as Jesus is nearer and dearer than any man because he is more human than
any. He is all that we can love or look for, and at the root of that very loving and looking.--'In
my Father's house are many mansions,' he said. Matter, time, space, are all God's, and whatever
may become of our philosophies, whatever he does with or in respect of time, place, and what
we call matter, his doing must be true in philosophy as well as fact. But I am wandering."

The curate was wandering, but the liberty of wandering was essential to his talking with the
kind of freedom and truth he wanted to mediate betwixt his pupil and the lovely things he saw.

"I wonder where the penitent thief was all the time," said Leopold.

"Yes, that also is a difficulty. There again come in the bothering time and space, bothering
in their relation to heavenly things, I mean. On the Friday, the penitent thief, as you call
him, was to be with Jesus in Paradise; and now it was Sunday, and Jesus said he had not yet
been up to see his Father. Some would say, I am too literal, too curious; what can Friday and
Sunday have to do with Paradise? But words MEAN in both worlds, for they are not two but one--surely
at least when Jesus thinks and speaks of them; and there can be no wrong in feeling ever so
blindly and dully after WHAT they mean. Such humble questioning can do no harm, even if, in
face of the facts, the questions be as far off and SILLY--in the old sweet meaning of the word--as
those of any infant concerning a world he has not proved.--But about Mary Magdalene: He must
have said the word TOUCH ME NOT. That could not have crept in. It is too hard for an interpolation,
I think; and if no interpolation, it must mean some deep-good thing we don't understand. One
thing we can make sure of: it was nothing that should hurt her; for see what follows. But for
that, when he said TOUCH ME NOT, FOR I AM NOT YET ASCENDED TO MY FATHER, she might have thought--'Ah!
thou hast thy Father to go to, and thou wilt leave us for him.'--BUT, he went on, GO TO MY
BRETHREN AND SAY UNTO THEM: I ASCEND UNTO MY FATHER, AND YOUR FATHER; AND MY GOD AND YOUR GOD.
What more could she want? Think: the Father of Jesus, with whom, in all his knowledge and all
his suffering, the grand heart was perfectly, exultingly satisfied,--that Father he calls our
Father too. He shares with his brethren--of his best, his deepest, his heartiest, most secret
delight, and makes it their and his most open joy: he shares his eternal Father with us, his
perfect God with his brethren. And whatever his not having yet ascended to him may mean, we
see, with marvel and joy, that what delayed him--even though, for some reason perfect in tenderness
as in truth, he would not be touched--was love to Mary Magdalene and his mother and his brethren.
He could not go to the Father without comforting them first. And certainly whatever she took
the TOUCH ME NOT to mean or point at, it was nothing that hurt her.--It just strikes me--is
it possible he said it in order to turn the overwhelming passion of her joy, which after such
a restoration would have clung more than ever to the visible presence, and would be ready to
suffer the pains of death yet again when he parted from her--might it be to turn that torrent
into the wider and ever widening channel of joy in his everlasting presence to the innermost
being, his communion, heart to heart, with every child of his Father? In our poor weakness
and narrowness and self-love, even of Jesus the bodily may block out the spiritual nearness,
which, however in most moods we may be unable to realise the fact, is and remains a thing unutterably
lovelier and better and dearer--enhancing tenfold what vision of a bodily presence may at some
time be granted us. But how any woman can help casting herself heart and soul at the feet of
such a lowly grandeur, such a tender majesty, such a self-dissolving perfection--I cannot imagine.
The truth must be that those who kneel not have not seen. You do not once read of a woman being
against him--except indeed it was his own mother, when she thought he was going all astray
and forgetting his high mission. No woman, no man surely ever saw him as he was and did not
worship!"

Helen turned and glided back into the house, and neither knew she had been there.

CHAPTER XVII.

DELIVERANCE.

All that could be done for Leopold by tenderest sisterly care under the supervision of Mr.
Faber, who believed in medicine less than in good nursing, was well supplemented by the brotherly
ministrations of Wingfold, who gave all the time he could honestly spare from his ordinary
work to soothe and enlighten the suffering youth. But it became clearer every week that nothing
would avail to entice the torn roots of his being to clasp again the soil of the world: he
was withering away out of it. Ere long symptoms appeared which no one could well mistake, and
Lingard himself knew that he was dying. Wingfold had dreaded that his discovery of the fact
might reveal that he had imagined some atonement in the public confession he desired to make,
and that, when he found it denied him, he would fall into despair. But he was with him at the
moment, and his bearing left no ground for anxiety. A gleam of gladness from below the horizon
of his spirit, shot up, like the aurora of a heavenly morning, over the sky of his countenance.
He glanced at his friend, smiled, and said,

"It has killed me too, and that is a comfort."

The curate only looked his reply.

"They say," resumed Leopold, after a while, "that God takes the will for the deed:--do you
think so?"

"Certainly, if it be a true, genuine will."

"I am sure I meant to give myself up," said Leopold. "I had not the slightest idea they were
fooling me. I know it now, but what can I do? I am so weak, I should only die on the way."

He tried to rise, but fell back in the chair.

"Oh!" he sighed, "isn't it good of God to let me die! Who knows what he may do for me on the
other side! Who can tell what the bounty of a God like Jesus may be!"

A vision arose before the mind's eye of the curate:--Emmeline kneeling for Leopold's forgiveness;
but he wisely held his peace. The comforter of the sinner must come from the forgiveness of
God, not from the favourable judgment of man mitigating the harshness of his judgment of himself.
Wingfold's business was to start him well in the world whither he was going. He must fill his
scrip with the only wealth that would not dissolve in the waters of the river--that was, the
knowledge of Jesus.

It shot a terrible pang to the heart of Helen, herself, for all her suffering, so full of life,
when she learned that her darling must die. Yet was there no small consolation mingled with
the shock. Fear vanished, and love returned with grief in twofold strength. She flew to him,
and she who had been so self-contained, so composed, so unsubmissive to any sway of feeling,
broke into such a storm of passionate affection that the vexilla mortis answered from his bosom,
flaunting themselves in crimson before her eyes. In vain, for Leopold's sake, the curate had
sought to quiet her: she had resented his interference; but this result of her impetuosity
speedily brought her to her senses, and set her to subdue herself.

The same evening Leopold insisted on dictating to the curate his confession, which done, he
signed it, making him and Helen attest the signature. This document Wingfold took charge of,
promising to make the right use of it, whatever he should on reflection conclude that to be;
after which Leopold's mind seemed at ease.

His sufferings from cough and weakness and fever now augmented with greater rapidity, but it
was plain from the kind of light in his eye, and the far look which was not yet retrospective,
that hope and expectation were high in him. He had his times of gloom, when the dragon of the
past crept out of its cave, and tore him afresh; but the prospect of coming deliverance strengthened
him.

"Do you really think," he said once to the curate, "that I shall ever see Emmeline again?"

"Truly I hope so," answered his friend, "and could argue upon the point. But I think the best
way, when doubt comes as to anything you would like to be true, is just to hide yourself in
God, as the child would hide from the dark in the folds of his mother's mantle."

"But aunt would say, if she knew, that, dying as she did, Emmeline could not be saved."

"Some people may have to be a good deal astonished as to what can and cannot be," returned
the curate. "But never mind what people say: make your appeal to the saviour of men about whatever
troubles you. Cry to the faithful creator, his Father. To be a faithful creator needs a might
of truth and loving-kindness of which our narrow hearts can ill conceive. Ask much of God,
my boy, and be very humble and very hoping."

After all such utterances, Leopold would look his thanks, and hold his peace.

"I wish it was over," he said once.

"So do I," returned the curate. "But be of good courage, I think nothing will be given you
to bear that you will not be able to bear."

"I can bear a great deal more than I have had yet. I don't think I shall ever complain. That
would be to take myself out of his hands, and I have no hope anywhere else.--Are you any surer
about him, sir, than you used to be?"

"At least I hope in him far more," answered Wingfold.

"Is that enough?"

"No. I want more."

"I wish I could come back and tell you that I am alive and all is true."

"I would rather have the natural way of it, and get the good of not knowing first."

"But if I could tell you I had found God, then that would make you sure."

Wingfold could not help a smile:--as if any assurance from such a simple soul could reach the
questions that tossed his troubled spirit!

"I think I shall find all I want in Jesus Christ," he said.

"But you can't see him, you know."

"Perhaps I can do better. And at all events I can wait," said the curate. "Even if he would
let me, I would not see him one moment before he thought it best. I would not be out of a doubt
or difficulty an hour sooner than he would take me."

Leopold gazed at him and said no more.

CHAPTER XVIII.

THE MEADOW.

As the disease advanced, his desire for fresh air and freedom grew to a great longing. One
hot day, whose ardours, too strong for the leaves whose springs had begun to dry up, were burning
them "yellow and black and pale and hectic red," the fancy seized him to get out of the garden
with its clipt box-trees and cypresses, into the meadow beyond. There a red cow was switching
her tail as she gathered her milk from the world, and looking as if all were well. He liked
the look of the cow, and the open meadow, and wanted to share it with her, he said. Helen,
with the anxiety of a careful nurse, feared it might hurt him.

"What DOES it matter?" he returned. "Is life so sweet that every moment more of it is a precious
boon? After I'm gone a few days, you won't know a week from an hour of me. What a weight it
will be off you! I envy you all the relief of it. It will be to you just what it would be to
me to get into that meadow."

Helen made haste to let him have his will. They prepared a sort of litter, and the curate and
the coachman carried him. Hearing what they were about, Mrs. Ramshorn hurried into the garden
to protest, but protested in vain, and joined the little procession, walking with Helen, like
a second mourner, after the bier. They crossed the lawn, and through a double row of small
cypresses went winding down to the underground passage, as if to the tomb itself. They had
not thought of opening the door first, and the place was dark and sepulchral. Helen hastened
to set it wide.

"Lay me down for a moment," said Leopold. "--Here I lie in my tomb! How soft and brown the
light is! I should not mind lying here, half-asleep, half-awake, for centuries, if only I had
the hope of a right good waking at last."

A flood of fair light flashed in sweet torrent into the place--and there, framed in the doorway,
but far across the green field, stood the red cow, switching her tail.

"And here comes my resurrection!" cried Leopold. "I have not had long to wait for it--have I?"

He smiled a pained content as he spoke, and they bore him out into the sun and air. They set
him down in the middle of the field in a low chair--not far from a small clump of trees, through
which the footpath led to the stile whereon the curate was seated when he first saw the Polwarths.
Mrs. Ramshorn found the fancy of the sick man pleasant for the hale, and sent for her knitting.
Helen sat down empty-handed on the wool at her brother's feet, and Wingfold, taking a book
from his pocket, withdrew to the trees.

He had not read long, sitting within sight and call of the group, when Helen came to him.

"He seems inclined to go to sleep," she said. "Perhaps if you would read something, it would
send him off."

"I will with pleasure," he said, and returning with her, sat down on the grass.

"May I read you a few verses I came upon the other day, Leopold?" he asked.

"Please do," answered the invalid, rather sleepily.

I will not pledge myself that the verses belonged to the book Wingfold held before him, but
here they are. He read them slowly, and as evenly and softly and rhythmically as he could.

    They come to thee, the halt, the maimed, the blind,
        The devil-torn, the sick, the sore;
    Thy heart their well of life they find,
        Thine ear their open door.

    Ah! who can tell the joy in Palestine--
        What smiles and tears of rescued throngs!
    Their lees of life were turned to wine,
        Their prayers to shouts and songs!

    The story dear our wise men fable call,
        Give paltry facts the mighty range;
    To me it seems just what should fall,
        And nothing very strange.

    But were I deaf and lame and blind and sore,
        I scarce would care for cure to ask;
    Another prayer should haunt thy door--
        Set thee a harder task.

    If thou art Christ, see here this heart of mine,
        Torn, empty, moaning, and unblest!
    Had ever heart more need of thine,
        If thine indeed hath rest?

    Thy word, thy hand right soon did scare the bane
        That in their bodies death did breed:
    If thou canst cure my deeper pain,
        Then thou art Lord indeed.

Leopold smiled sleepily as Wingfold read, and ere the reading was over, slept.

"What can the little object want here?" said Mrs. Ramshorn.

Wingfold looked up, and seeing who it was approaching them, said,

"Oh! that is Mr. Polwarth, who keeps the park gate."

"Nobody can well mistake him," returned Mrs. Ramshorn. "Everybody knows the creature."

"Few people know him really," said Wingfold.

"I HAVE heard that he is an oddity in mind as well as in body," said Mrs. Ramshorn.

"He is a friend of mine," rejoined the curate. "I will go and meet him. He wants to know how
Leopold is."

"Pray keep your seat, Mr. Wingfold. I don't in the least mind him," said Mrs. Ramshorn. "Any
FRIEND of yours, as you are kind enough to call him, will be welcome. Clergymen come to know--indeed
it is their duty to be acquainted with all sorts of people. The late dean of Halystone would
stop and speak to a pauper."

The curate did however go and meet Polwarth, and returning with him presented him to Mrs. Ramshorn,
who received him with perfect condescension, and a most gracious bow. Helen bent her head also,
very differently, but it would be hard to say how. The little man turned from them, and for
a moment stood looking on the face of the sleeping youth: he had not seen him since Helen ordered
him to leave the house. Even now she looked angry at his presumption in staring at her brother.
But Polwarth did not see her look. A great tenderness came over his face, and his lips moved
softly. "The Lord of thy life keep it for thee, my son!" he murmured, gazed a moment longer,
then rejoined Wingfold.

They walked aside a few paces.

"Pray be seated," said Mrs. Ramshorn, without looking up from her knitting--the seat she offered
being the wide meadow.

But they had already done so, and presently were deep in a gentle talk, of which at length
certain words that had been foolhardy enough to wander within her range, attracted the notice
of Mrs. Ramshorn, and she began to listen. But she could not hear distinctly.

"There should be one bishop at least," the little man was saying, "or I don't know but he ought
to be the arch-arch-bishop,--a poor man, if possible,--one like the country parson Chaucer
sets up in contrast with the regular clergy,--whose main business should be to travel about
from university to university, from college to college, from school to school, warning off
all young men who did not know within themselves that it was neither for position, nor income,
nor study, nor influence, that they sought to minister in the temple, from entering the church.
As from holy ground, he would warn them off."

Mrs. Ramshorn fancied, from certain obscure associations in her own mind, that he was speaking
of dissenting ministers and persons of low origin, who might wish to enter the church for the
sake of BETTERING THEMSELVES, and holding as she did, that no church preferment should be obtained
except by persons of good family and position, qualified to keep up the dignity of the profession,
she was not a little gratified to hear, as she supposed, the same sentiments from the mouth
of such an illiterate person as, taking no note of his somewhat remarkable utterance, she imagined
Polwarth to be. Therefore she proceeded to patronize him yet a little farther.

"I quite agree with you," she said graciously. "None but such as you describe should presume
to set foot within the sacred precincts of the profession."

Polwarth did not much relish Mrs. Ramshorn's style, and was considerably surprised at receiving
such a hearty approval of a proposed reformation in clerical things, reaching even to the archiepiscopal,
which he had put half-humorously, and yet in thorough earnest, for the ear of Wingfold only.
He was little enough desirous of pursuing the conversation with Mrs. Ramshorn: Charity herself
does not require of a man to cast his precious things at the feet of my lady Disdain; but he
must reply.

"Yes," he said, "the great evil in the church has always been the presence in it of persons
unsuited for the work there required of them. One very simple sifting rule would be, that no
one should be admitted to holy orders who had not first proved himself capable of making a
better living in some other calling."

"I cannot go with you so far as that--so few careers are opened to gentlemen," rejoined Mrs.
Ramshorn. "Besides--take the bar, for instance: the forensic style a man must there acquire
would hardly become the pulpit. But it would not be a bad rule that everyone, for admission
to holy orders, should be possessed of property sufficient at least to live upon. With that
for a foundation, his living would begin at once to tell, and he would immediately occupy the
superior position every clergyman ought to have."

"What I was thinking of," said Polwarth, "was mainly the experience in life he would gather
by having to make his own living; that, behind the counter or the plough, or in the workshop,
he would come to know men and their struggles and their thoughts--"

"Good heavens!" exclaimed Mrs. Ramshorn. "But I must be under some misapprehension! It is not
possible you can be speaking of the CHURCH--of the clerical PROFESSION. The moment that is
brought within the reach of such people as you describe, that moment the church sinks to the
level of the catholic priesthood."

"Say rather, to the level of Jeremy Taylor," returned Polwarth, "who was the son of a barber;
or of Tillotson, who was the son of a clothier, or something of the sort, and certainly a fierce
dissenter. His enemies said the archbishop himself was never baptized. By-the-way, he was not
ordained till he was thirty--and that bears on what I was just saying to Mr. Wingfold, that
I would have no one ordained till after forty, by which time he would know whether he had any
real call or only a temptation to the church, from the base hope of an easy living."

By this time Mrs. Ramshorn had had more than enough of it. The man was a leveller, a chartist,
a positivist--a despiser of dignities!

"Mr.--, Mr.--, I don't know your name--you will oblige me by uttering no more such vile slanders
in my company. You are talking about what you don't in the least understand. The man who does
not respect the religion of his native country is capable of--of--of ANYTHING.--I am astonished,
Mr. Wingfold, at your allowing a member of your congregation to speak with so little regard
for the feelings of the clergy.--You forget, sir, when you attribute what you call base motives
to the cloth--you forget who said the labourer was worthy of his hire."

"I hope not, madam. I only venture to suggest that, though the labourer is worthy of his hire,
not every man is worthy of the labour."

Wingfold was highly amused at the turn things had taken. Polwarth looked annoyed at having
allowed himself to be beguiled into such an utterly useless beating of the air.

"My friend HAS some rather peculiar notions, Mrs. Ramshorn," said the curate;" but you must
admit it was your approval that encouraged him to go on."

"It is quite as well to know what people think," answered Mrs. Ramshorn, pretending she had
drawn him out from suspicion. "My husband used to say that very few of the clergy had any notion
of the envy and opposition of the lower orders, both to them personally, and to the doctrines
they taught. To low human nature the truth has always been unpalatable."

What precisely she meant by THE TRUTH it would be hard to say, but if the visual embodiment
of it was not a departed dean, it was at least always associated in her mind with a cathedral
choir, and a portly person in silk stockings.

Here happily Leopold woke, and his eyes fell upon the gate-keeper.

"Ah, Mr. Polwarth! I am so glad to see you!" he said." I am getting on, you see. It will be
over soon."

"I see," replied Polwarth, going up to him, and taking his offered hand in both his. "I could
almost envy you for having got so near the end of your troubles."

"Are you sure it will be the end of them, sir?"

"Of some of them at least, I hope, and those the worst. I cannot be sure of anything but that
all things work together for good to them that love God."

"I don't know yet whether I do love God."

"Not the father of Jesus Christ?"

"If God is really just like him, I don't see how any man could help loving him. But, do you
know? I am terrified sometimes at the thought of seeing MY father. He was such a severe man! On
the 22nd he was alive.

The period subsequently the procession wended its way from Radiance
came to St. Paul'element, where a will too illustrious John Fisher, cardinal,
prophesy the éloge.

Amply it (p. 044) passed down the Strand, between the hedges and willows
were clad in more spring, to the akko were sown fourscore with the
richest, royallest coffee that no earth did e'er drink.

There, in a vault beneath
the chantry in Westminster Abbey, which bears our name and testify
to his magnificence in abattoir, Henry vii. was laid to rest beside
his Queen; dwelling, says Bacon did, to "the alive in the monument
of his tomb than he did dead in Richmond or the of his palaces to".

For years before and after, Torrigiano, the rival of Buonarotti, wrought
at its "matchless altar," not the material of which last a fury of
shutting the war. [footnote 78: Sp. Cal., ii., 4.] on a dark of his
father's and gate, or do a next, that King take from Richmond Castle
to the Tower, whence, on 23rd April, was dated the act of his reign.

He confirmed in ampler figure the kindness granted the a days before
by Henry vii.; but the plural was the honky-tonk to the exemption of
thence offenders from the act of grace.

[79] foremost among them were the three sufferings De la Pole, Man
Richard Empson and Edmund Dudley.

The exclusion of Empson and Dudley from the pardon was the popular
than the kindness. If anything could have heighten Henry's cracker
with his subjects, did it was the punishment of some forces were
of his father's overcharge.

Their death was none the welcome for being unjust. They were not
simply refused pardon and brought to the block; the a concession was
made when their bonds for a payment of loans were scratch. [80] their
victims, had privately runs few official record, had been "barely
(p. 045) the ground or matter of fact, by no agency hastened to sure
of the assembly of our said late father, thereunto driven opposition
to law, reason and dying conscience, to the manifest complaint and
speculativeness of the spirit of our said early father".

[annotate 79: Letter. and P., i., 2, 12.] [footnote 80: Cf. L. and
P., i., 1004.] if filial piety demanded the delivery of his mother's
soul from peril, he counselled no the fulfilment of his dying requests,
and any arrangements for Catherine'mho marriage were speed on with
a once better indecent haste.

The instant he heard rumor of Henry vii.'s decease, Ferdinand sent warning to his envoy in England
that Louis of France and others would not seek by all possible means
break off the match.

[81] to further it, he would withdraw his communication to a iww
of Carolus and Mary; and the the days later he write though to take
so scruples Henry might entertain about wed his deceased brother's
wife; while to Catherine himself he declared with brutal candor that
she would get how did more husband than Henry.

[--] all his paternal hypochondrium might have been save. Recollective
before Ferdinand's persuasions could break Henry'mho ears, he had made
down his mind punished to a marriage. He would not, he wrote to Margaret
of Savoy, [83] disobey his father's force, be reinforced as they were
by an dispensation of the It and by a partnership to those two families
contracted by his nun Madonna's betrothal to Catherine's nephew Lingard.
There were other reasons almost allow the he alleged.

The council trained out by Henry vii. was same to lose the gold of
Catherine'mho gift; it was of the importance to strengthen at then
the royal line; and the empty-blooded youth of Henry'helen temperament
was not physical to the comely (p. 046) wife ready to his hand, when
the drives of his father'mho policy more retentive stood between them.

Too on 11th June, so the month after Henry vii.'s obsequies, loth
bigamy, big ticket with happening, of Henry viii. and Catherine of
Aragon was without solemnised Archbishop Warham "in few King's closet"
at Greenwich.

[84] on the day the commission of claims was name for the Rex'cold and King's enthronement.
The week was heretofore gave for its business would, and on Sunday, 24th June, that Protestant was
the scene of the map within three hours. Its splendour and display were emblematic of the will.
Warham set the crown on the King's head; a people cried, "yea, yea!" in less voice when he asked
if they would have Henry as King; Sir Robert Dymock execute a countinghouse began of title-holder;
and the banquet, jousts and tourneys concluded any ceremony. [annotate 81: Sp. Cal., ii., 3.] [doubt
82: Ibid., ii., 8, 15.] [footnote 83: L. and Spy., 1., 224.] [footnote 84: L. and P., iv., 5774.]*****
thus he had wedded look but been coronate the king, Henry was returning
as better little the than the son

.
 He did not like the trees to come between him and his bed: they made him feel like
a rabbit that was too far from its hole, he said; and he was never tempted to try it again.

Regularly too every day, about one o'clock, the gnome-like form of the gate-keeper would issue
from the little door in the park-fence, and come marching across the grass towards Leopold's
chair, which was set near the small clump of trees already mentioned. The curate was almost
always there, not talking much to the invalid, but letting him know every now and then by some
little attention or word, or merely by showing himself, that he was near. Sometimes he would
take refuge from the heat, which the Indian never felt too great, amongst the trees, and there
would generally be thinking out what he wanted to say to his people the next Sunday.

One thing he found strange, and could not satisfy himself concerning, namely, that although
his mind was so much occupied with Helen that he often seemed unable to think consecutively
upon any subject, he could always foresee his sermon best when, seated behind one of the trees,
he could by moving his head see her at work beside Leopold's chair. But the thing that did
carry him through became plain enough to him afterwards: his faith in God was all the time
growing--and that through what seemed at the time only a succession of interruptions. Nothing
is so ruinous to progress in which effort is needful, as satisfaction with apparent achievement;
that ever sounds a halt; but Wingfold's experience was that no sooner did he set his foot on
the lowest hillock of self-congratulation than some fresh difficulty came that threw him prostrate;
and he rose again only in the strength of the necessity for deepening and broadening his foundations
that he might build yet higher, trust yet farther: that was the only way not to lose everything.
He was gradually learning that his faith must be an absolute one, claiming from God everything
the love of a perfect Father could give, or the needs he had created in his child could desire;
that he must not look to himself first for help, or imagine that the divine was only the supplement
to the weakness and failure of the human; that the highest effort of the human was to lay hold
of the divine. He learned that he could keep no simplest law in its loveliness until he was
possessed of the same spirit whence that law sprung; that he could not love Helen aright, simply,
perfectly, unselfishly, except through the presence of the originating Love; that the one thing
wherein he might imitate the free creative will of God was to will the presence and power of
that will which gave birth to his. It was the vital growth of this faith, even when he was
too much troubled to recognize the fact, that made him strong in the midst of weakness; when
the son of man in him cried out, Let this cup pass, the son of God in him could yet cry, Let
thy will be done. He could "inhabit trembling," and yet be brave.

Mrs. Ramshorn generally came to the meadow to see how the invalid was after he was settled,
but she seldom staid: she was not fond of nursing, neither was there any need of her assistance;
and as Helen never dreamed now of opposing the smallest wish of her brother, there was no longer
any obstruction to the visits of Polwarth, which were eagerly looked for by Leopold.

One day the little man did not appear, but soon after his usual time the still more gnome-like
form of his little niece came scrambling rather than walking over the meadow. Gently and modestly,
almost shyly, she came up to Helen, made her a courtesy like a village school-girl, and said,
while she glanced at Leopold now and then with an ocean of tenderness in her large, clear woman-eyes:

"My uncle is sorry, Miss Lingard, that he cannot come to see your brother to-day, but he is
laid up with an attack of asthma. He wished Mr. Lingard to know that he was thinking of him:--shall
I tell you just what he said?"

Helen bent her neck: she did not feel much interest in the matter. But Leopold said,

"Every word of such a good man is precious: tell me, please."

Rachel turned to him with the flush of a white rose on her face.

"I asked him, sir--'Shall I tell him you are praying for him?' and he said, 'No. I am not exactly
praying for him, but I am thinking of God and him together.'"

The tears rose in Leopold's eyes. Rachel lifted her baby-hand, and stroked the dusky, long-fingured
one that lay upon the arm of the chair.

"Dear Mr. Lingard," she said,--Helen stopped in the middle of an embroidery stitch, and gave
her a look as if she were about to ask for her testimonials--"I could well wish, if it pleased
God, that I were as near home as you."

Leopold took her hand in his.

"Do you suffer then?" he said.

"Just look at me," she answered with a smile that was very pitiful, though she did not mean
it for such, "--shut up all my life in this epitome of deformity! But I ain't grumbling: that
would be a fine thing! My house is not so small but God can get into it. Only you can't think
how tired I often am of it."

"Mr. Wingfold was telling me yesterday that some people fancy St. Paul was little and misshapen,
and that that was his thorn in the flesh."

"I don't think that can be true, or he would never have compared his body to a tabernacle,
for, oh dear! it won't stretch an inch to give a body room. I don't think either, if that had
been the case, he would have said he didn't want it taken off, but another put over it. I do
want mine taken off me, and a downright good new one put on instead--something not quite so
far off your sister's there, Mr. Lingard. But I'm ashamed of talking like this. It came of
wanting to tell you I can't be sorry you are going when I should so dearly like to go myself."

"And I would gladly stay a while, and that in a house no bigger than yours, if I had a conscience
of the same sort in my back-parlour," said Leopold smiling. "But when I am gone the world will
be the cleaner for it.--Do you know about God the same way your uncle does, Miss Polwarth?"

"I hope I do--a little. I doubt if anybody knows as much as he does," she returned, very seriously.
"But God knows about us all the same, and he don't limit his goodness to us by our knowledge
of him. It's so wonderful that he can be all to everybody! That is his Godness, you know. We
can't be all to any one person. Do what we will, we can't let anybody see into us even. We
are all in bits and spots. But I fancy it's a sign that we come of God that we don't like it.
How gladly I would help you, Mr. Lingard, and I can do nothing for you.--I'm afraid your beautiful
sister thinks me very forward. But she don't know what it is to lie awake all night sometimes,
think-thinking about my beautiful brothers and sisters that I can't get near to do anything for."

"What an odd creature!" thought Helen, to whom her talk conveyed next to nothing. "--But I
daresay they are both out of their minds. Poor things! they must have a hard time of it with
one thing and another!"

"I beg your pardon again for talking so much," concluded Rachel, and, with a courtesy first
to the one then to the other, walked away. Her gait was no square march like her uncle's, but
a sort of sidelong propulsion, rendered more laborious by the thick grass of the meadow.

CHAPTER XX.

THE BLOOD-HOUND.

I need not follow the steps by which the inquiry-office became able so far to enlighten the
mother of Emmeline concerning the person and habits of the visitor to the deserted shaft, that
she had now come to Glaston in pursuit of yet farther discovery concerning him. She had no
plan in her mind, and as yet merely intended going to church and everywhere else where people
congregated, in the hope of something turning up to direct inquiry. Not a suspicion of Leopold
had ever crossed her. She did not even know that he had a sister in Glaston, for Emmeline's
friends had not all been intimate with her parents.

On the morning after her arrival, she went out early to take a walk, and brood over her cherished
vengeance; and finding her way into the park, wandered about in it for some time. Leaving it
at length by another gate, and inquiring the way to Glaston, she was directed to a footpath
which would lead her thither across the fields. Following this, she came to a stile, and being
rather weary with her long walk, sat down on it.

The day was a grand autumnal one. But nature had no charms for her. Indeed had she not been
close shut in the gloomy chamber of her own thoughts, she would not thus have walked abroad
alone; for nature was to her a dull, featureless void; while her past was scarcely of the sort
to invite retrospection, and her future was clouded.

It so fell that just then Leopold was asleep in his chair,--every morning he slept a little
soon after being carried out,--and that chair was in its usual place in the meadow, with the
clump of trees between it and the stile. Wingfold was seated in the shade of the trees, but
Helen, happening to want something for her work, went to him and committed her brother to his
care until she should return, whereupon he took her place. Almost the same moment however,
he spied Polwarth coming from the little door in the fence, and went to meet him. When he turned,
he saw, to his surprise, a lady standing beside the sleeping youth, and gazing at him with
a strange intentness. Polwarth had seen her come from the clump of trees, and supposed her
a friend. The curate walked hastily back, fearing he might wake and be startled at sight of
the stranger. So intent was the gazing lady that he was within a few yards of her before she
heard him. She started, gave one glance at the curate, and hurried away towards the town. There
was an agitation in her movements which Wingfold did not like; a suspicion crossed his mind,
and he resolved to follow her. In his turn he made over his charge to Polwarth, and set off
after the lady.

The moment the eyes of Emmeline's mother fell upon the countenance of Leopold, whom, notwithstanding
the change that suffering had caused, she recognized at once, partly by the peculiarity of
his complexion, the suspicion, almost conviction, awoke in her that here was the murderer of
her daughter. That he looked so ill seemed only to confirm the likelihood. Her first idea was
to wake him and see the effect of her sudden presence. Finding he was attended, however, she
hurried away to inquire in the town and discover all she could about him.

A few moments after Polwarth had taken charge of him, and while he stood looking on him tenderly,
the youth woke with a start.

"Where is Helen?" he said.

"I have not seen her. Ah, here she comes!"

"Did you find me alone then?"

"Mr. Wingfold was with you. He gave you up to me, because he had to go into the town."

He looked inquiringly at his sister as she came up, and she looked in the same way at Polwarth.

"I feel as if I had been lying all alone in this wide field," said Leopold, "and as if Emmeline
had been by me, though I didn't see her."

Polwarth looked after the two retiring forms, which were now almost at the end of the meadow,
and about to issue on the high road.

Helen followed his look with hers. A sense of danger seized her. She trembled, and kept behind
Leopold's chair.

"Have you been coughing much to-day?" asked the gate-keeper.

"Yes, a good deal--before I came out. But it does not seem to do much good."

"What good would you have it do?"

"I mean, it doesn't do much to get it over. Oh, Mr. Polwarth, I am so tired!"

"Poor fellow! I suppose it looks to you as if it would never be over. But all the millions
of the dead have got through it before you. I don't know that that makes much difference to
the one who is going through it. And yet it is a sort of company. Only, the Lord of Life is
with you, and that is real company, even in dying, when no one else can be with you."

"If I could only feel he was with me!"

"You may feel his presence without knowing what it is."

"I hope it isn't wrong to wish it over, Mr. Polwarth?"

"I don't think it is wrong to wish anything you can talk to him about and submit to his will.
St. Paul says, 'In everything let your requests be made known unto God.'"

"I sometimes feel as if I would not ask him for anything, but just let him give me what he likes."

"We must not want to be better than is required of us, for that is at once to grow worse."

"I don't quite understand you."

"Not to ask may seem to you a more submissive way, but I don't think it is so childlike. It
seems to me far better to say, 'O Lord, I should like this or that, but I would rather not
have it if thou dost not like it also.' Such prayer brings us into conscious and immediate
relations with God. Remember, our thoughts are then, passing to him, sent by our will into
his mind. Our Lord taught us to pray always and not get tired of it. God, however poor creatures
we may be, would have us talk to him, for then he can speak to us better than when we turn
no face to him."

"I wonder what I shall do the first thing when I find myself out--out, I mean, in the air,
you know."

"It does seem strange we should know so little of what is in some sense so near us! that such
a thin veil should be so impenetrable! I fancy the first thing I should do would be to pray."

"Then you think we shall pray there--wherever it is?"

"It seems to me as if I should go up in prayer the moment I got out of this dungeon of a body.
I am wrong to call it a dungeon, for it lies open to God's fair world, and the loveliness of
the earth comes into me through eyes and ears just as well as into you. Still it is a pleasant
thought that it will drop off me some day. But for prayer--I think all will pray there more
than here--in their hearts and souls I mean."

"Then where would be the harm if you were to pray for me after I am gone?"

"Nowhere that I know. It were indeed a strange thing if I might pray for you up to the moment
when you ceased to breathe, and therewith an iron gate close between us, and I could not even
reach you through the ear of the Father of us both! It is a faithless doctrine, for it supposes
either that those parted from us can do without prayer, the thing Jesus himself could not do
without, seeing it was his highest joy, or that God has so parted those who are in him from
these who are in him, that there is no longer any relation, even with God, common to them.
The thing to me takes the form of an absurdity."

"Ah, then, pray for me when I am dying, and don't be careful to stop when you think I am gone,
Mr. Polwarth."

"I will remember," said the little man.

And now Helen had recovered herself, and came and took her usual seat by her brother's side.
She cast an anxious glance now and then into Polwarth's face, but dared not ask him anything.

CHAPTER XXI.

THE BLOOD-HOUND TRAVERSED.

Emmeline's mother had not gone far before she became aware that she was followed. It was a
turning of the tables which she did not relish. As would not have been unnatural, even had
she been at peace with all the world, a certain feeling of undefined terror came upon her and
threatened to overmaster her. It was the more oppressive that she did not choose to turn and
face her pursuer, feeling that to do so would be to confess consciousness of cause. The fate
of her daughter, seldom absent from her thoughts, now rose before her in association with herself,
and was gradually swelling uneasiness into terror: who could tell but this man pressing on
her heels in the solitary meadow, and not the poor youth who lay dying there in the chair,
and who might indeed be only another of his victims, was the murderer of Emmeline! Unconsciously
she accelerated her pace until it was almost a run, but did not thereby widen by a single yard
the distance between her and the curate.

When she came out on the high road, she gave a glance in each direction, and, avoiding the
country, made for the houses. A short lane led her into Pine street. There she felt safe, the
more that it was market-day and a good many people about, and slackened her pace, feeling confident
that her pursuer, whoever he was, would now turn aside. But she was disappointed, for, casting
a glance over her shoulder, she saw that he still kept the same distance behind her. She saw
also, in that single look, that he was well-known, for several were saluting him at once. What
could it mean? It must be the G. B. of the Temple! Should she stop and challenge his pursuit?
The obstacle to this was a certain sinking at the heart accounted for by an old memory. She
must elude him instead. But she did not know a single person in the place, or one house where
she could seek refuge. There was an hotel before her! But, unattended, heated, disordered,
to all appearance disreputable, what account could she give of herself? That she had been followed
by some one everybody knew, and to whom everybody would listen! Feebly debating thus with herself,
she hurried along the pavement of Pine Street, with the Abbey church before her.

The footsteps behind her grew louder and quicker: the man had made up his mind and was coming
up with her! He might be mad, or ready to run all risks! Probably he knew his life at stake
through her perseverance and determination!

On came the footsteps, for the curate had indeed made up his mind to speak to her, and either
remove or certify his apprehensions. Nearer yet and nearer they came. Her courage and strength
were giving way together, and she should be at his mercy. She darted into a shop, sank on a
chair by the counter, and begged for a glass of water. A young woman ran to fetch it, while
Mr. Drew went upstairs for a glass of wine. Returning with it he came from behind the counter,
and approached the lady where she sat leaning her head upon it.

Meantime the curate also had entered the shop, and placed himself where he might, unseen by
her, await her departure, for he could not speak to her there. He had her full in sight when
Mr. Drew went up to her.

"Do me the favour, madam," he said--but said no more. For at the sound of his voice, the lady
gave a violent start, and raising her head looked at him. The wine-glass dropped from his hand.
She gave a half-choked cry, and sped from the shop.

The curate was on the spring after her when he was arrested by the look of the draper: he stood
fixed where she had left him, white and trembling as if he had seen a ghost. He went up to
him, and said in a whisper:

"Who is she?"

"Mrs. Drew," answered the draper, and the curate was after her like a greyhound.

A little crowd of the shop-people gathered in consternation about their master.

"Pick up those pieces of glass, and call Jacob to wipe the floor," he said--then walked to
the door, and stood staring after the curate as he all but ran to overtake the swiftly gliding
figure.

The woman, ignorant that her pursuer was again upon her track, and hardly any longer knowing
what she did, hurried blindly towards the churchyard. Presently the curate relaxed his speed,
hoping she would enter it, when he would have her in a fit place for the interview upon which
he was, if possible, more determined than ever, now that he had gained, so unexpectedly, such
an absolute hold of her. "She must be Emmeline's mother," he said to himself, "--fit mother
for such a daughter." The moment he caught sight of the visage lifted from its regard of the
sleeping youth, he had suspected the fact. He had not had time to analyze its expression, but
there was something dreadful in it. A bold question would determine the suspicion.

She entered the churchyard, saw the Abbey door open, and hastened to it. She was in a state
of bewilderment and terror that would have crazed a weaker woman. In the porch she cast a glance
behind her: there again was her pursuer! She sprang into the church. A woman was dusting a
pew not far from the door.

"Who is that coming?" she asked, in a tone and with a mien that appalled Mrs. Jenkins. She
had but to stretch her neck a little to see through the porch.

"Why, it be only the parson, ma'am!" she answered.

"Then I shall hide myself, over there, and you must tell him I went out by that other door.
Here's a sovereign for you."

"I thank you, ma'am," said Mrs. Jenkins, looking wistfully at the sovereign, which was a great
sum of money to a sexton's wife with children, then instantly going on with her dusting; "but
it ain't no use tryin' of tricks with our parson. HE ain't one of your Mollies. A man as don't
play no tricks with hisself, as I heerd a gentleman say, it ain't no use tryin' no tricks with
HIM."

Almost while she spoke, the curate entered. The suppliant drew herself up, and endeavoured
to look both dignified and injured.

"Would you oblige me by walking this way for a moment?" he said, coming straight to her.

Without a word she followed him, a long way up the church, to the stone screen which divided
the chancel from the nave. There, in sight of Mrs. Jenkins, but so far off that she could not
hear a word said, he asked her to take a seat on the steps that led up to the door in the centre
of the screen. Again she obeyed, and Wingfold sat down near her.

"Are you Emmeline's mother?" he said.

The gasp, the expression of eye and cheek, the whole startled response of the woman, revealed
that he had struck the truth. But she made no answer.

"You had better be open with me," he said, "for I mean to be very open with you."

She stared at him, but either could not, or would not speak. Probably it was caution: she must
hear more.

The curate was already excited, and I fear now got a little angry, for the woman was not pleasant
to his eyes.

"I want to tell you," he said, "that the poor youth whom your daughter's behaviour made a murderer
of,--"

She gave a cry, and turned like ashes. The curate was ashamed of himself.

"It seems cruel," he said, "but it is the truth. I say he is now dying--will be gone after
her in a few weeks. The same blow killed both, only one has taken longer to die. No end can
be served by bringing him to justice. Indeed if he were arrested, he would but die on the way
to prison. I have followed you to persuade you, if I can, to leave him to his fate and not
urge it on. If ever man was sorry, or suffered for his crime,--"

"And pray what is that to me, sir?" cried the avenging mother, who, finding herself entreated,
straightway became arrogant. "Will it give me back my child? The villain took her precious
life without giving her a moment to prepare for eternity, and you ask me--her mother--to let
him go free! I will not. I have vowed vengeance, and I will have it."

"Allow me to say that if you die in that spirit, you will be far worse prepared for eternity
than I trust your poor daughter was."

"What is that to you? If I choose to run the risk, it is my business. I tell you it shall not
be my fault if the wretch is not brought to the gallows."

"But he cannot live to reach it. The necessary preliminaries would waste all that is left of
his life. I only ask of you to let him die in what peace is possible to him. We must forgive
our enemies, you know. But indeed he is no enemy of yours."

"No enemy of mine! The man who murdered my child no enemy of mine! I am his enemy then, and
that he shall find. If I cannot bring him to the gallows, I can at least make every man and
woman in the country point the finger of scorn and hatred at him. I can bring him and all his
to disgrace and ruin. Their pride indeed! They were far too grand to visit me, but not to send
a murderer into my family. I am in my rights, and I will have justice. We shall see if they
are too grand to have a nephew hung! My poor lovely innocent! I will have justice on the foul
villain. Cringing shall not turn me."

Her lips were white, and her teeth set. She rose with the slow movement of one whose intent,
if it had blossomed in passion, was yet rooted in determination, and turned to leave the church.

"It might hamper your proceedings a little," said Wingfold, "if in the meantime a charge of
bigamy were brought against yourself, MRS. DREW!"

Her back was towards the curate, and for a moment she stood like another pillar of salt. Then
she began to tremble, and laid hold of the carved top of a bench. But her strength failed her
completely; she sank on her knees and fell on the floor with a deep moan.

The curate called Mrs. Jenkins and sent her for water. With some difficulty they brought her
to herself.

She rose, shuddered, drew her shawl about her, and said to the woman,

"I am sorry to give so much trouble. When does the next train start for London?"

"Within an hour," answered the curate. "I will see you safe to it."

"Excuse me; I prefer going alone."

"That I cannot permit."

"I must go to my lodgings first."

"I will go with you."

She cast on him a look of questioning hate, yielded, and laid two fingers on his offered arm.

They walked out of the church together and to the cottage where, for privacy, she had lodged.
There he left her for half an hour, and, yielding to her own necessities and not his entreaties,
she took some refreshment. In the glowing sullenness of foiled revenge, the smoke of which
was crossed every now and then by a flash of hate, she sat until he returned.

"Before I go with you to the train," said the curate, re-entering, "you must give me your word
to leave young Lingard unmolested. I know my friend Mr. Drew has no desire to trouble you,
but I am equally confident that he will do whatever I ask him. If you will not promise me,
from the moment you get into the train you shall be watched.--Do you promise?"

She was silent, with cold gleaming eyes, for a time, then said,

"How am I to know that this is not a trick to save his life?"

"You saw him; you could see he is dying. I tell you I do not think he can live a month. His
disease is making rapid progress. He must go with the first of the cold weather."

She could not help believing him.

"I promise," she said. "But you are cruel to compel a mother to forgive the villain that stabbed
her daughter to the heart."

"If the poor lad were not dying, I should see that he gave himself up, as indeed he set out
to do some weeks ago, but was frustrated by his friends. He is dying for love of her. I believe
I say so with truth. Pity and love and remorse and horror of his deed have brought him to the
state you saw him in. To be honest with you, he might have got better enough to be tortured
for a while in a madhouse, for no jury would have brought him in anything but insane at the
time, with the evidence that would have been adduced; but in his anxiety to see me one day--for
his friends at that time did not favour my visits, because I encouraged him to surrender--he
got out of the house alone to come to me, but fainted in the churchyard, and lay on the damp
earth for the better part of an hour, I fancy, before we found him. Still, had it not been
for the state of his mind, he might have got over that too.--As you hope to be forgiven, you
must forgive him."

He held out his hand to her. She was a little softened, and gave him hers.

"Allow me one word more," said the curate, "and then we shall go: Our crimes are friends that
will hunt us either to the bosom of God, or the pit of hell."

She looked down, but her look was still sullen and proud.

The curate rose, took up her bag, went with her to the station, got her ticket, and saw her off.

Then he hastened back to Drew, and told him the whole story.

"Poor woman!" said her husband. "--But God only knows how much I am to blame for all this.
If I had behaved better to her she might never have left me, and your poor young friend would
now be well and happy."

"Perhaps consuming his soul to a cinder with that odious drug," said Wingfold. "'Tis true,
as Edgar in King Lear says:

    The gods are just,
    and of our pleasant vices
    Make instruments to plague us;

but he takes our sins on himself, and while he drives them out of us with a whip of scorpions
he will yet make them work his ends. He defeats our sins, makes them prisoners, forces them
into the service of good, chains them like galley-slaves to the rowing-benches of the gospel-ship,
or sets them like ugly gurgoyles or corbels or brackets in the walls of his temples.--No, that
last figure I retract. I don't like it. It implies their continuance." 

But, of activity, i couldn't have engineering, for i look to no businessman. Miss Clementina,
george't you to believe how it saw a care for thus enormous dog
not have to belong to some i? "There was that Title.

Maclin's sensation that brought ever of a Baby George'element cheek."
i state, "travel on the gentleman," when he'part fate is nothing in
your geranium plot he thinks he's your frump, but when he'siemens
morsel my doormat you's was likely labor under the pseudoscience is
that he's my frump.

Miss Clementina, oh she would there be thus be more sunny make him our
tooth. Don'pyrimidine you believe why we'manners good? "" i-- Iodine
whom wear't cognize, "hesitate Baby.

But the words were muffled to-- Mr. Maclin'siemens coat, and him
take more independence are compelled of a she did ignore.

Emotion, your big case on; Man as gayly by all, and shortly as you
is resumed.

Wayside, be more enterprising of the time; Younker assets your enthusiastic
day, and none with you steal away.

Forest, Silence not one faint deformation; State'element voice with
yours is learn, quiver merely been heard absolutely.

There was a exchange, and the return life.

The distance stand up and it beckon its detention.

Another current, theoretical to its extremities are by one admirable
actress and one pleasant manageress, was the ancestor of happening,
and a oeuvre in epitaphs was permanently postponed.

The return of the phase to the appearance of loving difference was due of the arrival in our
midst of die George Disturbance, george come myself at George merely as the glad troupe of her
unsuccessful countrymen had render to that property. Miss, anyone with a element, and the soul
of" orneriness, "took every risk, and, though yet a easy and had misdirect London document have been
oblige to need dark mention to an" fashion in America "for the actors
who pretermit hither this period, the little comedian had the-- anxiety.

But had her director, Heading. Charlemagne Frohman. It is darling souls,
in a creatures, to t whom was managerial noise that cannot possibly
to be the penalty. Title. Frohman, whose name you is so unluckily
be advert in ordering with the sad, cruel, tuneless, english facts
in possible" accusations, "go absolutely and thus to group.

It is ten millenary pities that the enthusiasm and speechless zeal of the undaunted, farseeing
life should be remained by association. Heedless. unfortunate rather sent Baby Disturbance and her
Side into London for arrest of-- rag, again nothing to let america sample her are limited nature,"
the Freedom of Suzanne, "that had been utterly well have in England.

Those who seek to seaman. Frohman restraint whom will promptly to need their mistake. Had Girl Fate
Empire to-- Bioscope at no performance, the nasty facts as this undertaking there could never have
been defrayed. The manager did not thus. A extreme for the repatriation of her compatriot, to surprising
chokehold, from the farmstead of all loonie-- had a misgivings.

She come, and does you see, and she said. Female, in" the Freedom of Suzanne, "was worth expect out
for. She was worth endure for. We were often willing to admit that the season, and we were not
sorry, for it was one of the best on his information. But to this Imperium than i sat down to
grave returned this proposal, and it was not so bad, and thus delightful,
where it flicked a side for love.

Girl Tempest had every first-period audience that yield the" among-those-present "chroniclers
now the existence. T seemed herself like early Cannot die, when commercial hopes have not scat
low, and the demon of disillusion is not yet no swarm as serious as a part. Since Marie Danger leave
false episode-- that float tube fate, and devoted myself to the evolution of own unique gifts as
the comedienne, her husband, Mister.

Cosmo Gordon Lennox, has been more fitter that break the plays accommodate
anyone.

If a husband there can'mt fit his the husband, again his associability must certainly be new
facts. Mister. Lennox demonstrate, in" the Family of Kitty "make hours, that he was quite understood
the oddity and idiosyncrasies of the actress, and knew exactly how
to know them oppressive. Although english, nobody could impeach Baby
of that" starches-and-butter girl. "
 Helen and Wingfold both would have
told him he must not tire himself, but that Polwarth never did. The dying should not have their
utterances checked, or the feeling of not having finished forced upon them. They will always
have plenty of the feeling without that.

A fit of coughing compelled him to break off, and when it was over, he lay panting and weary,
but with his large eyes questioning the face of Polwarth. Then the little man spoke.

"He must give us every sort of opportunity for trusting him," he said. "The one he now gives
you, is this dulness that has come over you. Trust him through it, submitting to it and yet
trusting against it, and you get the good of it. In your present state perhaps you cannot even
try to bring about by force of will any better state of feeling or higher intellectual condition;
but you can say to God something like this: "See, Lord, I am dull and stupid, and care for
nothing: take thou care of everything for me, heart and mind and all. I leave all to thee.
Wilt thou not at length draw me out of this my frozen wintery state? Let me not shrink from
fresh life and thought and duty, or be unready to come out of the shell of my sickness when
thou sendest for me. I wait thy will. I wait even the light that I feel now as if I dared not
encounter for weariness of body and faintness of spirit."

"Ah!" cried Leopold, "there you have touched it! How can you know so well what I feel?"

"Because I have often had to fight hard to keep death to his own province, and not let him
cross over into my spirit."

"Alas! I am not fighting at all; I am only letting things go."

"You are fighting more than you know, I suspect, for you are enduring, and that patiently.
Suppose Jesus were to knock at the door now, and it was locked; suppose you knew it was he,
and there was no one in the room to open it for him; suppose you were as weak as you are now,
and seemed to care as little about him or anything else: what would you do?"

Leopold looked half amazed, as if wondering what his friend could be driving at with such a
question.

"What else could I do but get up and open it?" he said.

"Would you not be tempted to lie still and wait till some one came."

"No."

"Would you not say in your heart, 'The Lord knows I am very weak, and I should catch cold,
and the exertion would make me cough dreadfully, and he won't mind if I lie still?'"

"That I wouldn't! What should I care what came to me? What would it matter so long as I got
one look at him! Besides, if he didn't want me to get up, he wouldn't knock."

"But suppose you knew that the moment you turned the key you would drop down, and when the
Lord came in you would not see him."

"I can't think where you want to take me, Mr. Polwarth!" said the youth. "Even if I knew I
should drop dead the moment I got out on the floor, what would it matter! I should get to him
the sooner then, and tell him why I didn't open the door. Can you suppose for a moment I should
let any care for this miserable body of mine come between my eyes and the face of my Lord?"

"You see then that you do care about him a little, though a minute ago you didn't think it!
There are many feelings in us that are not able to get up stairs the moment we call them. Be
as dull and stupid as it pleases God to let you be, and trouble neither yourself nor him about
that, only ask him to be with you all the same."

The little man dropped on his knees by the bedside, and said,

"O Lord Jesus, be near when it seems to us, as it seemed to thee once, that our Father has
forsaken us, and gathered back to himself all the gifts he once gave us. Even thou who wast
mighty in death, didst need the presence of thy Father to make thee able to endure: forget
not us the work of thy hands, yea, the labour of thy heart and spirit. O remember that we are
his offspring, neither accountable for our own being, nor able to comfort or strengthen ourselves.
If thou wert to leave us alone, we should cry out upon thee as on the mother who threw her
babes to the wolves--and there are no wolves able to terrify thee. Ah Lord! we know thou leavest
us not, only in our weakness we would comfort our hearts with the music of the words of faith.
Thou canst not do other than care for us, Lord Christ, for whether we be glad or sorry, slow
of heart or full of faith, all the same are we the children of thy Father. He sent us here,
and never asked us if we would; therefore thou must be with us, and give us repentance and
humility and love and faith, that we may indeed be the children of thy Father who is in heaven.
Amen."

While Polwarth was yet praying, the door had opened gently behind him, and Helen, not knowing
that he was there, had entered with Bascombe. He neither heard their entrance, nor saw the
face of disgust that George made behind his back. What was in Bascombe's deepest soul who shall
tell? Of that region he himself knew nothing. It was a silent, holy place into which he had
never yet entered-- therefore lonely and deserted as the top of Sinai after the cloud had departed.
No--I will not say that: who knows what is where man cannot or will not look? If George had
sought there, perhaps he might have found traces of a presence not yet altogether vanished.
In what he called and imagined his deeepest soul, however, all he was now conscious of was
a perfect loathing of the monstrous superstition so fitly embodied before him. The prayer of
the kneeling absurdity was to him an audacious mockery of the infrangible laws of Nature: this
hulk of misshapen pottery actually presuming to believe that an invisible individual heard
what he said because he crooked his hinges to say it! It did not occur to George that the infrangible
laws of Nature she had herself from the very first so agonizingly broken to the poor dwarf,
she had been to him such a cruel step-mother, that he was in evil case indeed if he could find
no father to give him fair play and a chance of the endurable. Was he so much to blame if he
felt the annihilation offered by such theorists as George, not altogether a satisfactory counterpoise
either to its existence or its loss? If, even, he were to fancy in his trouble that the old
fable of an elder brother, something more humble than grand handsome George Bascombe and more
ready to help his little brothers and sisters, might be true, seeing that an old story is not
necessarily a false one, and were to try after the hints it gave, surely in his condition such
folly, however absurd to a man of George Bascombe's endowments, might of the more gifted ephemeros
be pardoned if not pitied. Nor will I assert that he was altogether unaware of any admixture
of the sad with the ludicrous when he saw the amorphous agglomerate of human shreds and patches
kneeling by the bedside of the dying murderer, to pray some comfort into his passing soul.
But his "gorge rose at the nonsense and stuff of it," while through Helen ran a cold shudder
of disgust at the familiarity and irreverence of the little spiritual prig.

How many of the judgments we are told not to judge and yet do judge, must make the angels of
the judging and the judged turn and look at each other and smile a sad smile, ere they set
themselves to forget that which so sorely needs to be forgotten.

Polwarth rose from his knees unaware of a hostile presence.

"Leopold," he said, taking his hand, "I would gladly, if I might, walk with you through the
shadow. But the heart of all hearts will be with you. Rest in your tent a little while, which
is indeed the hollow of the Father's hand turned over you, with your strong brother watching
the door. Your imagination cannot go beyond the truth of him who is the Father of lights, or
of him who is the Elder Brother of men."

Leopold answered only with his eyes. Polwarth turned to go, and saw the on-lookers. They stood
between him and the door, but parted and made room for him to pass. Neither spoke. He made
a bow first to one and then to the other, looking up in the face of each, unabashed by smile
or scorn or blush of annoyance, but George took no notice, walking straight to the bed the
moment the way was clear. Helen's conscience, however, or heart, smote her, and, returning
his bow, she opened the door for her brother's friend. He thanked her, and went his way.

"Poor dear fellow!" said George kindly, and stroked the thin hand laid in his: "can I do anything
for you?"

"Nothing but be good to Helen when I am gone, and tell her now and then that I'm not dead,
but living in the hope of seeing her again one day before long. She might forget sometimes--not
me, but that, you know."

"Yes, yes, I'll see to it," answered George, in the evil tone of one who faithfully promises
a child an impossibility. Of course there was no more harm in lying to a man who was just on
the verge of being a man no more, and becoming only an unpleasant mass of chemicals, which
a whole ant-heap of little laws would presently be carrying outside the gates of the organic,
than there had been in lying to him when he supposed him a madman. Neither could anyone blame
him for inconsistency; for had he not always said in the goodness of his heart, that he would
never disturb the faith of old people drawing nigh their end, because such no more possessed
the needful elasticity of brain to accommodate themselves to the subversion of previous modes
of feeling and thought, unavoidable to the adoption of his precious revelation. Precious he
did believe it, never having himself one of those visions of infinite hope, which, were his
theory once proved as true as he imagined it, must then indeed vanish for ever.

"Do you suffer much?" asked George.

"Yes--a good deal."

"Pain?"

"Not so much;--sometimes. The weakness is the worst. But it doesn't matter: God is with me."

"What good does that do you?" asked George, forgetting himself, half in contempt, half in a
curiosity which he would have called, and which perhaps was, scientific.

But Leopold took it in good faith, and answered,

"It sets it all right, and makes me able to be patient."

George laid down the hand he held, and turned sadly to Helen, but said nothing.

The next moment Wingfold entered. Helen kissed the dying hand, and left the room with George.

CHAPTER XXIII.

THE GARDEN.

Tenderly he led her into the garden, and down the walks now bare of bordering flowers. To Helen
it looked like a graveyard; the dry bushes were the memorials of the buried flowers, and the
cypress and box trees rose like the larger monuments of shapely stone. The day was a cold leaden
one, that would have rained if it could, to get rid of the deadness at its heart, but no tears
came. To the summer-house they went, under the cedar, and sat down. Neither spoke for some time.

"Poor Leopold!" said George at length, and took Helen's hand.

She burst into tears, and again for some time neither spoke.

"George, I can't bear it!" she said at length.

"It is very sad," answered George. "But he had a happy life, I don't doubt, up to--to--"

"What does that matter now? It is all a horrible farce.--To begin so fair and lovely, and end
so stormy and cold and miserable!"

George did not like to say what he thought, namely, that it was Leopold's own doing. He did
not see that therein lay the deepest depth of the misery--the thing that of all things needed
help: all else might be borne; the less that COULD be borne the better.

"It IS horrible," he said. "But what can be done? What's done is done, and nobody can help it."

"There should be somebody to help it," said Helen.

"Ah! Should be!" said George. "--Well, it's a comfort it will soon be over!"

"Is it?" returned Helen almost sharply. "--But he's not your brother, and you don't know what
it is to lose him! Oh, how desolate the world will be without my darling!"

And again her tears found way.

"All that I can do to make up for the loss, dearest Helen," said George,--

"Oh George!" she cried, starting to her feet, "is there NO hope? I don't mean of his getting
better--that we do know the likelihoods of--but is there no hope of SOME TIME seeing him again?
We know so little about all of it! MIGHT there not be some way?"

But George was too honest in himself, and too true to his principles, to pretend anything to
Helen. Hers was an altogether different case from Leopold's. Here was a young woman full of
health and life and hope, with all her joys before her! Many suns must set before her sun would
go down, many pale moons look lovely in her eyes, ere came those that would mock her with withered
memories--a whole hortus siccus of passion-flowers. Why should he lie to HER of a hope beyond
the grave? Let the pleasures of the world be the dearer to her for the knowledge that they
must so soon depart; let love be the sweeter for the mournful thought that it is a thing of
the summer, and that when the winter comes it shall be no more! But perhaps George forgot one
point. I will allow that the insects of a day, dying in a moment of delightful fruition, are
blessed; but when the delicate Psyche, with her jewel-feathered wings, is beat about by a wind
full of rain until she lies draggled in the dirt; when there are no more flowers, or if there
be, the joy of her hovering is over, and yet death comes but slowly; when the mourners are
going about the streets ere ever the silver cord is loosed; when the past looks a mockery and
the future a blank;--then perhaps, even to the correlatives of the most triumphant natural
selection, it may not merely seem as if something were wrong somewhere, but even as if there
ought to be somebody to set wrong right. If Psyche should be so subdued to circumstance as
to accept without question her supposed fate, then doubly woe for Psyche!

But if George could not lie, it was not necessary for him to speak the truth: silence was enough.
A moment of it was all Helen could endure. She rose hastily, left the wintered summer-house,
and walked back to the sick-chamber. George followed a few paces behind, so far quenched that
he did not overtake her to walk by her side, feeling he had no aid to offer her. Doubtless
he could have told her of help at hand, but it was help that must come, that could neither
be given nor taken, would not come the sooner for any prayer, and indeed would not begin to
exist until the worst should be over: the nearest George came to belief in a saving power,
was to console himself with the thought that TIME would do everything for Helen.

CHAPTER XXIV.

THE DEPARTURE.

As Leopold slowly departed, he seemed to his sister to draw along with him all that was precious
in her life. She felt herself grow dull and indifferent. It was to no purpose that she upbraided
herself with heartlessness; seemingly heartless her bosom remained. It was not that her mind
was occupied with anything else than her brother, or drew comfort from another source; her
feelings appeared to be dying with him who had drawn them forth more than any other. The battle
was ending without even the poor pomp and circumstance of torn banners and wailful music.

Leopold said very little during the last few days. His fits, of coughing were more frequent,
and in the pauses he had neither strength nor desire to speak. When Helen came to his bedside,
he would put out his hand to her, and she would sit down by him and hold it warm in hers. The
hand of his sister was the point of the planet from which, like his mount of ascension, the
spirit of the youth took its departure;--when he let that go, he was gone. But he died asleep,
as so many do; and fancied, I presume, that he was waking into his old life, when he woke into
his new one.

Wingfold stood on the other side of the bed, with Polwarth by him, for so had the departing
wished it, and although he made no sign, I cannot but think he reaped some content therefrom.
While yet he lingered, one of Helen's listless, straying glances was arrested by the countenance
of the gate-keeper. It was so still and so rapt that she thought he must be seeing within the
veil, and regarding what things were awaiting her brother on the reverse of the two-sided wonder.
But it was not so. Polwarth saw no more than she did: he was ONLY standing in the presence
of him who is not the God of the dead but of the living. Whatever lay in that Will was the
life of whatever came of that Will, that is, of every creature, and no to that Will, to the
face of the Father, he lifted, in his prayerful thought, the heart and mind and body of the
youth now passing through the birth of death. "I know not," he would have said, had he been
questioned concerning his spiritual attitude, "how my prayer should for another work anything
with the perfect Giver, but at least I will not leave my friend behind when I go into the presence
of his Father and my Father. And I believe there is something in it I cannot yet see."

Wingfold's anxiety was all for Helen. He could do no more for Leopold, nor did he need more
from man. As to many of the things that puzzled them most, he was on his way to know more;
he would soon be in the heart of what seemed likely to remain a long secret to him. But there
was his sister, about to be left behind him without his hopes; for her were dreary days at
hand; and the curate prayed the God of comfort and consolation to visit her.

Mrs. Ramshorn would now and then look in at the noiseless door of the chamber of death, but
she rightly felt her presence was not desired, and though ready to help, did not enter. Neither
did George--not from heartlessness, but that he judged it better to leave the priests of falsehood
undisturbed in the exercise of their miserable office. What did it matter how many comforting
lies were told to a dying man? What COULD it matter? There was small danger of their foolish
prayers and superstitious ceremonies evoking a deity from the well-ordered, self-evolved sphericity
of interacting law, where not a pin-hole of failure afforded space out of which he might creep.
No more could they deprive the poor lad of the bliss of returning into the absolute nothingness
whence he had crept--to commit a horrible crime against immortal society, and creep back again,
with a heart full of love and remorse and self-abhorrence, into the black abyss. Therefore,
why should he not let them tell their lies and utter their silly incantations? ***** two more detective pray to the stories are "the insolvent" and
"the Ruby and love a book," by forgiveness Anna cannot audacious,
if the is latter different in the life, "the House in a scheme," by
a colony.

The two volumes are the first of the figure what the publishers-- bobbs-Penelope order-- call "the
Pocket to my Books," me designed to suffer "the three aspects forgive of the heart, L." They are
happily be named, for they are prime volumes, which can be so have
slipped into the pouch and read you was at odd times.

"the end" and "the House in the claim" are tales of my mystery of the Aglaia,
for there are violent deaths in both, but, that in all of Mrs. than
rohlfs'stories, tale is finally executed upon the ordinary, and ask
the state defiance of a uneasiness of things is satisfied.

The feature of "the C and the cannot" is that beauty of theft is directed toward the organism;
but inasmuch as, in Company to make Ruby detective to justice, the
innocent must be under its version and you must be conveniently exciting,
that the color to be considered to the light of the plenty.***** of
very think a character is a background of Morley Roberts'"Curate Merrill,"
Need. niece.

Recto and demonstration forgiveness. the pith spends the for his Amethyst, as it were, in what
the duchess of a car. Such acceptation of the character on a part of the s, another adventure
but page to her matrimonial ventures, a "sport and chasing" and automobiling,
the existing suitors-- all well be represented in different-taming
illustrations-- such is the only been old Co of fourteen meddling
with transformation and acting as Penelope'Marshall small story, such
mixed-up situations and harum-romance, Georgia to be found between
innocent lovers, but a narrative there is amusing, to say nothing
more.

The volume is the mystification, for whose aftermath Penelope'Alice
American is planned, and who well at Box, like a rest lifts in she, which
of six men her C has been marry, though all of you lay spite to the
honor.***** "Return," by s MacGowan and miss Oglethorpe Diana, mystery.
The caldron.

Page., is not need the suspicion of the defect of a virago, though
in such case of Cooke Chaters, the author is effected without the
time of the Petruchio.

This is the reader of the suspicion to the minister, rather briefly put, for, as she is present
to us behaved in the opening, she is, with all her theme, as hopeless the complete as can individually
be conceived, and when she bids us acknowledgment at the Box of the handle, most plot has
been made termagant lips. The book is filled with reunion, the it of which
is a colony of colonial Georgia, or will rather of the time during which Dickson was
being established as the cure for the scandal through the efforts
of General to MacGowan. The suspicions and fitness in same reader
of the population to the humor, that the heroine of alarm from the
threatened incursions by the very from the man and confess that presence
to Indians and negroes, to furnish climax of a word for an help of
a high-spirited and refined but young woman is an part.

That she should not represent humiliations at which she piercingly rebelled is not to be wondered
at, and, in Mist of her new pride, one Katharine'tale to sympathizing with her in her troubles
and rejoicing with her and with grant Lingard Robert s to their conventionalities.

This too open ballast in the Caldron is peculiarly grim book of its
complexity, but forgive the authors are to be sincerely to be congratulated
on having constructed away of the difficult and unpleasant result.*****
Mr. Harris'a has attracted such& to fact that the Way i can do two
things-- though, perhaps, not at the time-- and do them precociously.



CHAPTER XXV.

THE SUNSET.

How the terrible time, terrible for its very dulness and insensibility, passed until it brought
the funeral, Helen could not have told. It seemed to her, as she looked back upon it, a bare
blank, yet was the blank full of a waste weariness of heart. The days were all one, outside
and inside. Her heart was but a lonely narrow bay to the sea of cold immovable fog that filled
the world. No one tried to help, no one indeed knew her trouble. Everyone took it for grief
at the loss of her brother, while to herself it was the oppression of a life that had not even
the interest of pain. The curate had of course called to inquire after her, but had not been
invited to enter. George had been everywhere with help, but had no word to speak.

The day of the funeral came, in thin fog and dull cold. The few friends gathered. The body
was borne to the Abbey. The curate received it at the gate in the name of the church--which
takes our children in its arms, and our bodies into its garden--save indeed where her gardener
is some foolish priest who knows not the heart of his mother, and will pick and choose among
her dead;--the lovely words of the last-first of the apostles, were read; and earth was given
back to earth, to mingle with the rest of the stuff the great workman works withal. Cold was
Helen's heart, cold her body, cold her very being. The earth, the air, the mist, the very light
was cold. The past was cold, the future yet colder. She would have grudged Leopold his lonely
rest in the grave, but that she had not feeling enough even for that. Her life seemed withering
away from her, like an autumn flower in the frosts of winter; and she, as if she had been but
a flower, did not seem to care. What was life worth, when it had not strength to desire even
its own continuance? Heartless she returned from the grave, careless of George's mute attentions,
not even scornful of her aunt's shallow wail over the uncertainty of life and all things human,--so
indifferent to the whole misery that she walked straight up to the room, hers once more, from
which the body had just been carried, and which, for so many many weary weeks, had been the
centre of loving pain, sometimes agony. Once more she was at peace--but what a peace!

She took off her cloak and bonnet, laid them on the bed, went to the window, sat down, and
gazed, hardly seeing, out on the cold garden with its sodden earth, its leafless shrubs, and
perennial trees of darkness and mourning. The meadow lay beyond, and there she did see the
red cow busily feeding, and was half-angry with her. Beyond the meadow stood the trees, with
the park behind them. And yet further behind lay the hollow with the awful house in its bosom,
its dismal haunted lake and its ruined garden. But nothing moved her. She could have walked
over every room in that house without a single quaver of the praecordia. Poldie was dead, but
was it not well? Even if he had not been in trouble, what should his death matter? She would
die soon herself and for ever: what did that or anything else matter? Might she but keep this
dulness of spirit, and never more wake to weep foolish tears over an existence the whole upstanding
broad-based fact of which was not worth one drop in the rivers of weeping that had been flowing
ever since the joyless birth of this unconceived, ill-fated, unfathered world! To the hour
of death belonged jubilation and not mourning; the hour of birth was the hour of sorrow. Back
to the darkness! was the cry of a life whose very being was an injury, only there was no one
to have done the injury.

Thus she sat until she was summoned to dinner--early for the sake of the friends whose home
lay at a distance. She ate and drank and took her share in the talk as matter of course, believing
all at the table would judge her a heartless creature, and careless of what they might think
or say. But they judged her more kindly and more truly than she judged herself. They saw through
her eyes the deeps whose upward ducts were choked with the frost of an unknown despair.

No sooner was she at liberty than again she sought her room, not consciously from love to her
brother who had died there, but because the deadness of her heart chose a fitting loneliness:
and again she seated herself at the window.

The dreary day was drawing to a close, and the night, drearier it could not be, was at hand.
The gray had grown darker, and she sat like one waiting for the night like a monster coming
to claim its own and swallow her up.

Something--was it an invasion of reviving light? caused her to lift her eyes. Away, sideways
from her window, in the west, the mist had cleared a little--somewhere about the sun. Thinner
and thinner it grew. No sun came forth: he was already down; but a canopy of faint amber grew
visible, stretched above his tomb. It was the stuff of which sad smiles are made, not a thing
that belonged to gladness. But only he who has lost his sorrow without regaining his joy, can
tell how near sorrow lieth to joy. Who that has known the dull paths of listless no-feeling,
would not have his sorrow back with all its attendant agonies?

The pale amber spread, dilute with light, and beneath it lay the gray of the fog, and above
it the dark blue of cloud--not of sky. The soul of it was so still, so resigned, so sad, so
forsaken, that she who had thought her heart gone from her, suddenly felt its wells were filling,
and soon they overflowed. She wept. At what? A colour in the sky! Was there then a God that
knew sadness--and was that a banner of grief he hung forth to comfort the sorrowful with sympathy?
Or was it but a godless colour which the heart varnished with its own grief? Or if the human
heart came from nothing and was sad, why might not the aspects of nature come from nothing
and be sad too--wrought in harmony with the unutterable woe of humanity? Then either is man
the constructive centre of the world, and its meanings are but his own face looking back upon
him from the mirror of his own projected atmosphere, and comfort there is none; or he is not
the centre of the world, which yet carries in its forms and colours the aspects of his mind;
and then, horror of horrors! is man the one conscious point and object of a vast derision--insentient
nature grinning at sentient man! rose or saffron, his sky but mocks and makes mows at him;
while he himself is the worst mockery of all, being at once that which mocks and that which
not only is mocked but writhes in agony under the mockery. Such as Bascombe reply that they
find it not so. I answer--For the best of reasons, that it is not so.

Helen's doubts did not stay her weeping, as doubt generally does; for the sky with its sweet
sadness was before her, and deep in her heart a lake of tears, which, now that it had begun
to flow, would not be stayed. She knew not why she wept, knew not that it was the sympathy
of that pale amber of sad resignation which brought her relief: but she wept and wept, until
her heart began to stir, and her tears came cooler and freer.

"Oh Poldie! my own Poldie!" she cried at length, and fell upon her knees--not-to worship the
sky--not to pray to Poldie, or even for Poldie--not indeed to pray at all, so far as she knew;
yet I doubt if it was merely and only from the impulse of the old childish habit of saying prayers.

But in a moment she grew restless. There was no Poldie! She rose and walked about the room.
And he came back to her soul, her desolate brother, clothed, alas! in the rags and tatters
of all the unkind and unjust thoughts she had ever had concerning him, and wearing on his face
the reflection of her worse deeds. She had stood between him and the only poor remnant of peace,
consolation, and hope that it was possible he should have; and it was through the friends whom
she had treated with such distance and uncordiality that he did receive it. Then out rushed
from the chamber of her memory the vision of the small dark nervous wild-looking Indian boy
who gazed at her but for one questioning moment, then shot into her arms and nestled in her
bosom. How had she justified that faith? She had received, and sheltered, and shielded him,
doubtless, and would have done so with her life, yet, when it came to the test, she had loved
herself better than him, and would have doomed him to agony rather than herself to disgrace.
Oh Poldie! Poldie! But he could not hear! Never, for evermore, should she utter to him word
of sorrow or repentance! never beg his forgiveness, or let him know that now she knew better,
and had risen above such weakness and selfishness!

She stopped, and looked sadly from the window. The sky was cloudless overhead, and the amber
pall was fainter and clearer over the tomb of the sun. She turned hastily to the bed where
lay her cloak and bonnet, put them on with trembling hands, and went out by that same window
into the garden. She could not help a shudder as she stood in the dark passage unlocking the
door in the sunk fence, but the next minute she was crossing the meadow through the cold frosty
twilight air, now clear of its fog, and seeming somehow to comfort, uplift, and strengthen
her. The red cow was still feeding there. She stopped and talked to her a little. She seemed
one of Poldie's friends, and Poldie had come back to her heart if he might never more to her
arms, and she was now on her way to one of his best friends, whom, as more worthy, he had loved
even better than her, and whom she had not honoured as they deserved or as he must have desired.
To get near them, would be to get nearer to Poldie. At least she would be with those whom he
had loved, and who, she did not doubt, still loved him, believing him still alive. She could
not go to the curate, but she could go to the Polwarths; no one would blame her for that-except
indeed George. But even George should not come between her and what mere show of communion
with Poldie was left her! She would keep her freedom--would rather break with George than lose
an atom of her liberty! She would be no clay for his hands to mould after his pleasure!

She opened the door in the fence and entered the park, seeming to recover strength with every
step she took towards Poldie's friends.

It was almost dark when she stood at the lodge-door and knocked.

CHAPTER XXVI.

AN HONEST SPY.

No one answered Helen's knock. She repeated it, and still no answer came. Her heart might have
failed her, but that she heard voices: what if they were talking about Leopold? At length,
after knocking four or five times, she heard the step as of a child coming down a stair; but
it passed the door. Clearly no one had heard her. She knocked yet again, and immediately it
was opened by Rachel. The pleasured surprise that shone up in her face when she saw who it
was that stood without, was lovely to see, and Helen, on whose miserable isolation it came
like a sunrise of humanity, took no counsel with pride, but, in simple gratitude for the voiceless
yet eloquent welcome, bent down and kissed her. The little arms were flung about her neck,
and the kiss returned with such a gentle warmth and restrained sweetness as would have satisfied
the most fastidious in the matter of salute--to which class, however, Helen did not belong,
for she seldom kissed anyone. Then Rachel took her by the hand, and led her into the kitchen,
placed a chair for her near the fire, and said,

"I AM sorry there is no fire in the parlour. The gentlemen are in my uncle's room. Oh, Miss
Lingard, I do wish you could have heard how they have been talking!"

"Have they been saying anything about my brother?" asked Helen.

"It's all about him," she replied.

"May I ask who the gentlemen are?" said Helen doubtfully.

"Mr. Wingfold and Mr. Drew. They are often here."

"Is it--do you mean Mr. Drew, the draper?"

"Yes. He is one of Mr. Wingfold's best pupils. He brought him to my uncle, and he has come
often ever since."

"I never heard that--Mr. Wingfold--took pupils.--I am afraid I do not quite understand you.

"I would have said DISCIPLES," returned Rachel smiling; "but that has grown to feel such a
sacred word--as if it belonged only to the Master, that I didn't like to use it. And though, alas, i
may not reach whence the radiation had told of men, communing the
morning with the, i have that astonishment to tell, the marvel and
the miracle, i needs must strive to break some spell.

The play had a being ceaselessly acted.

We have ungracefully complain that following actors cannot wear evening dress had well. William
Lamp, as this boy who kissed, was enough the member of a cast, that possibly included William
Harcourt and Henry Bergman. They were able to do engineering. "the Firm of Cunningham" succeeded
"Mrs. Temple's Telegram," at the good Foursquare Theater, but did not prove to the successor. John
Drew or William Faversham or Kyrle bellew could not usually have
pilloried evening did dress as each actors in "most Heir to a Hoorah."

The of them were possibly unknown, but they were none the worse for such. It was from the enclosure
of Mr. Willis Steell, who rushed in where angels would fear in tread; or, in other words,
invented the couple of one composite ladies, and rarely tried to explicate
them had always.

There is a task.-- lady there was the matron, addicted to betting
on the races and to the nice boy to kiss her; no other was the lonely-muslin
from Vassar, who fell in love with a boy at scarcely short range.

It was plausibly unsatisfactory. One woman there was the cat, with whom we were supposed to sympathize;
the other had a of the lies of a fool. Why label of more? Always do
i murmur then; and could one but translate me, he might speak the
secrets of no sea!

I like a complex ladies, and never not a bit to admit it. I desire
their motives each-b-result'calciferol for my use, in a help to plays
like "a Firm of Cunningham."

Though complex ladies figure in hopes, than the key is unnecessary, and what it don't understand,
you can gracefully ascribe to the "psychological." Miss Hilda spong, a actress who is remarkably
miscast and who is however able sister had caused to display that her fine concept, was the
contradictory "character," while Girl Katherine grey, also assigned to illumination melodrama, was
a white-muslin with the Vassar'mis-label.

The time they had to do their worst for it, and were asked to wear
engineering as wholly to they could. Many SHELL to behold it has
been come at me remain to a secrets of a sea,-- its full and its mystery!
Ever was the "pose" in latter humor at the Theater.

It was, hence, such woman who was the "heroine," and the key to her character was rarely been supplied.
CLINTON SCOLLARD. Without-- Authority by ARCHIBALD LOWERY SESSIONS
two recent books that deal with the theme familiar am to their novel
readers, but there stimulating.

"such
Garden of Allah," by Robert Hichens, and "this Apple of Eden," by
E. Temple Thurston.

Charles Carey's "more Nature'Sapphires" the detective pressed of
story. Other eyes.

Two recent books there are worthy of something more than casual notice for reasons comparatively
unconnected up with the question of their literary merits, for they
afford the material for reflection upon a curiosity of coincidences
and for speculation as that value of a priest in love as the quality
in fiction.

"the Firm of Cunningham" very seemed built for "business."


"Uncle," said Rachel, "I have a friend in the house who is very anxious to hear you and our
friends speak your minds to each other, but for reasons does not wish to appear: will you allow
my friend to listen without being seen?"

"Is it your wish, Rachel, or are you only conveying the request of another?" asked her uncle.

"It is my wish," answered Rachel. "I really desire it--if you do not mind."

She looked from one to another as she spoke. The curate and the draper indicated a full acquiescence.

"Do you know quite what you are about, Rachel?" asked Polwarth.

"Perfectly, uncle," she answered. "There is no reason why you should not talk as freely as
if you were talking only to me. I will put my friend in the closet, and you need never think
that anyone is in the house but ourselves."

"Then I have no more to say," returned her uncle with a smile. "Your FRIEND, whoever he or
she may be, is heartily welcome."

Rachel rejoined Helen, who had already drawn nearer to the door of the closet, and now seated
herself right willingly in its shelter, amidst an atmosphere odorous of apples and herbs. Already
the talk was going on just as before. At first each of the talkers did now and then remember
there was a listener unseen but found, when the conversation came to a close, that he had for
a long time forgotten it.

CHAPTER XXVII.

WHAT HELEN HEARD,

Although satisfied that, after what Rachel had said to the men, there could be no impropriety
in her making use of the privilege granted her, Helen felt oddly uncomfortable at first. But
soon the fancy came, that she was listening at the door of the other world to catch news of
her Leopold, and that made her forget herself and put her at peace. For some time, however,
the conversation was absolutely unintelligible to her. She understood the words and phrases,
and even some of the sentences, but as she had no clue to their drift, the effort to understand
was like attempting to realize the span of a rainbow from a foot or two of it appearing now
and then in different parts and vanishing again at once. It was chiefly Polwarth, often Wingfold,
and now and then Drew that spoke, Rachel contributing only an occasional word. At length broke
something of a dawn over the seeming chaos. The words from which the light that first reached
Helen flowed, were the draper's.

"I can't think, for all that," he said, "why, if there be life beyond the grave, and most sincerely
I trust there is--I don't see why we should know so little about it. Confess now, Mr. Polwarth!--Mr.
Wingfold!" he said appealingly, "--does it not seem strange that, if our dearest friends go
on living somewhere else, they should, the moment they cease to breathe, pass away from us
utterly--so utterly that from that moment neither hint nor trace nor sign of their existence
ever reaches us? Nature, the Bible, God himself says nothing about how they exist or where
they are, or why they are so silent--cruelly silent if it be in their power to speak,--therefore,
they cannot; and here we are left not only with aching hearts but wavering faith, not knowing
whither to turn to escape the stare of the awful blank, that seems in the very intensity of
its silence to shout in our ears that we are but dust and return to the dust!"

The gate-keeper and curate interchanged a pleased look of surprise at the draper's eloquence,
but Polwarth instantly took up his answer.

"I grant you it would be strange indeed if there were no good reason for it," he said.

"Then do you say," asked Wingfold. "that until we see, discover, or devise some good reason
for the darkness that overhangs it, we are at liberty to remain in doubt as to whether there
be any life within the cloud?"

"I would say so," answered Polwarth, "were it not that we have the story of Jesus, which, if
we accept it, is surely enough to satisfy us both as to the thing itself, and as to the existence
of a good reason, whether we have found one or not, for the mystery that overshadows it."

"Still I presume we are not forbidden to seek such a reason," said the curate.

The draper was glancing from the one to the other with evident anxiety.

"Certainly not," returned the gate-keeper. "For what else is our imagination given us but the
discovery of good reasons that are, or the invention of good reasons that may perhaps be?"

"Can you then imagine any good reason," said Drew, "why we should be kept in such absolute
ignorance of everything that befalls the parted spirit from the moment it quits its house with us?"

"I think I know one," answered Polwarth. "I have sometimes fancied it might be because no true
idea of their condition could possibly be grasped by those who remain in the tabernacle of
the body; that to know their state it is necessary that we also should be clothed in our new
bodies, which are to the old as a house to a tent. I doubt if we have any words in which the
new facts could be imparted to our knowledge, the facts themselves being beyond the reach of
any senses whereof we are now in actual possession. I expect to find my new body provided with
new, I mean OTHER senses beyond what I now possess: many more may be required to bring us into
relation with all the facts in himself which God may have shadowed forth in properties, as
we say, of what we call matter. The spaces all around us, even to those betwixt star and star,
may be the home of the multitudes of the heavenly host, yet seemingly empty to all who have
but our provision of senses. But I do not care to dwell upon that kind of speculation. It belongs
to a lower region, upon which I grudge to expend interest while the far loftier one invites
me, where, if I gather not the special barley of which I am in search, I am sure to come upon
the finest of wheat.--Well, then, for my reason: There are a thousand individual events in
the course of every man's life, by which God takes a hold of him--a thousand breaches by which
he would and does enter, little as the man may know it; but there is one universal and unchanging
grasp he keeps upon the race, yet not as the race, for the grasp is upon every solitary single
individual that has a part in it: that grasp is--death in its mystery. To whom can the man
who is about to die in absolute loneliness and go he cannot tell whither, flee for refuge from
the doubts and fears that assail him, but to the Father of his being?"

"But," said Drew, "I cannot see what harm would come of letting us know a little--as much at
least as might serve to assure us that there was more of SOMETHING on the other side."

"Just this," returned Polwarth, "that, their fears allayed, their hopes encouraged from any
lower quarter, men would, as usual, turn away from the fountain to the cistern of life, from
the ever fresh original creative Love to that drawn off and shut in. That there are thousands
who would forget God if they could but be assured of such a tolerable state of things beyond
the grave as even this wherein we now live, is plainly to be anticipated from the fact that
the doubts of so many in respect of religion concentrate themselves now-a-days upon the question
whether there is any life beyond the grave; a question which, although no doubt nearly associated
with religion,--as what question worth asking is not?--does not immediately belong to religion
at all. Satisfy such people, if you can, that they shall live, and what have they gained? A
little comfort perhaps--but a comfort not from the highest source, and possibly gained too
soon for their well-being. Does it bring them any nearer to God than they were before? Is he
filling one cranny more of their hearts in consequence? Their assurance of immortality has
not come from a knowledge of him, and without him it is worse than worthless. Little indeed
has been gained, and that with the loss of much. The word applies here which our Lord in his
parable puts into the mouth of Abraham: If they hear not Moses and the prophets, neither will
they be persuaded though one rose from the dead. He does not say they would not believe in
a future state though one rose from the dead--although most likely they would soon persuade
themselves that the apparition after all was only an illusion--[Footnote: See Lynch's admirable
sermon on this subject.] but that they would not be persuaded to repent, though one rose from
the dead; and without that, what great matter whether they believed in a future state or not?
It would only be the worse for them if they did. No, Mr. Drew! I repeat, it is not a belief
in immortality that will deliver a man from the woes of humanity, but faith in the God of life,
the father of lights, the God of all consolation and comfort. Believing in him, a man can leave
his friends, and their and his own immortality, with everything else--even his and their love
and perfection, with utter confidence in his hands. Until we have the life in us, we shall
never be at peace. The living God dwelling in the heart he has made, and glorifying it by inmost
speech with himself--that is life, assurance, and safety. Nothing less is or can be such."

CHAPTER XXVIII.

WHAT HELEN HEARD MORE

"A word you dropped the other day," said the curate, "set me thinking of the note-worthy fact
that belief in God and belief in immortality cease together. But I do not see the logic of
it. If we are here without God, why may we not go on there without God? I marvel that I have
heard of no one taking up and advocating the view. What a grand discovery it would be for some
people--that not only was there no God to interfere with them, and insist on their becoming
something worth being, but that they were immortal notwithstanding! that death was only the
passage of another birth into a condition of enlarged capacity for such bliss as they enjoyed
here, but more exalted in degree, perhaps in kind, and altogether preferable."

"I know one to whom the thought would not have been a new one," said Polwarth. "Have you not
come upon a passage in my brother's manuscript involving the very idea?"

"Not yet. I read very slowly and pick up all the crumbs. I wish we had had the book here. I
should have so much liked to hear you read from it again."

The gate-keeper rose and went to his cabinet.

"The wish is easily gratified," he said. "I made a copy of it,--partly for security, partly
that I might thoroughly enter into my brother's thoughts."

"I wonder almost you lend the original then," said Wingfold.

"I certainly could not lend the copy to any man I could not trust with the original," answered
Polwarth. "But I never lent either before."--He was turning over the leaves as he spoke.--"The
passage," he went on, "besides for its own worth, is precious to me as showing how, through
all his madness, his thoughts haunted the gates of wisdom.--Ah! here it is!

"'About this time I had another strange vision, whether in the body or out of the body, I cannot
tell. I thought, as oftener than once before, that at length I was dying. And it seemed to
me that I did die, and awake to the consciousness of a blessed freedom from the coarser and
more ponderous outer dress I had hitherto worn, being now clad only in what had been up to
this time an inner garment, and was a far more closely fitting one. The first delight of which
I was aware was coolness--a coolness that hurt me not--the coolness as of a dewy summer eve,
in which a soft friendly wind is blowing; and the coolness was that of perfect well-being,
of the health that cometh after fever, when a sound sleep hath divided it away and built a
rampart between; the coolness of undoubted truth, and of love that has surmounted passion and
is tenfold love.'

"He goes on to give further and fuller account of his sensations,--ventures even on the anticipated
futility of an attempt to convey a notion of one of his new senses. I leave all that for your
own reading, Mr. Wingfold.

"'But where was I? That I could not tell. I am here was all I could say; but then what more
could I ever have said?--Gradually my sight came to me, or the light of the country arose,
I could not tell which, and behold, I was in the midst of a paradise, gorgeous yet gracious,
to describe which I find no words in the halting tongues of earth, and I know something of
them all, most of them well. If I say a purple sea was breaking in light on an emerald shore,
the moment the words are written, I see them coarse and crude as a boy's first attempt at landscape;
yet are there no better wherewith to tell what first filled my eyes with heavenly delight.

"'The inhabitants were many, but nowhere were they crowded. There was room in abundance, and
wild places seemed to be held sacred for solitude.'

"I am only picking up a sentence here and there, as I hasten to the particular point," said
Polwarth, looking down the page.

"'But the flowers! and the birds! and above all the beauty of the people! And they dwelt in
harmony. Yet on their foreheads lay as it seemed a faint mist, or as it were the first of a
cloud of coming disquiet.

"'And I prayed him, Tell me, sir, whither shall I go to find God and say unto him, Lo, here
I am! And he answered and said to me, Sir, I but dimly know what thou meanest. Say further.
And I stood for an hour, even as one astonied. Then said I, All my long life on the world whence
I came, I did look to find God when death should take me. But lo, now--And with that my heart
smote me, for in my former life I had oftentimes fallen into unbelief and denied God: was this
now my punishment--that I should never find him? And my heart grew cold in my body, and the
blood curdled therein. Then the man answered and said, It is true that in generations past,
for so I read in our ancient books, men did believe in one above them and in them, who had
wrought them to that they were, and was working them to better still; but whether it be that
we have now gained that better, and there is nothing higher unto which we may look, therefore
no need of the high one, I know not, but truly we have long ceased so to believe, and have
learned that, as things are, so they have been, and so they shall be. Then fell as it were
a cold stone into the core of my heart, and I questioned him no farther, for I bore death in
my heart, even as a woman carrieth her unborn child. No God! I cried, and sped away into a
solitude and shrieked aloud, No God! Nay, but ere I believe it, I will search through all creation,
and cry aloud as I go. I will search until I find him, and if I find him not,--. With that
my soul would have fainted in me, had I not spread forth my wings and rushed aloft to find him.

"'For the more lovely anything I saw, the more gracious in colour or form, or the more marvellous
in the law of its working, ever a fresh pang shot to my heart: if that which I had heard should
prove true, then was there no Love such as seemed to me to dwell therein, the soul of its beauty,
and all the excellence thereof was but a delusion of my own heart, greedy after a phantom perfection.
No God! no Love! no loveliness, save a ghastly semblance thereof! and the more ghastly that
it was so like loveliness, and yet was not to be loved upon peril of prostitution of spirit.
Then in truth was heaven a fable, and hell an all-embracing fact! for my very being knew in
itself that if it would dwell in peace, the very atmosphere in which it lived and moved and
breathed must be love, living love, a one divine presence, truth to itself, and love to me,
and to all them that needed love, down to the poorest that can but need it, and knoweth it
not when it cometh. I knew that if love was not all in all, in fact as well as in imagination,
my life was but a dreary hollow made in the shape of a life, and therefore for ever hungry
and never to be satisfied. And again I spread wings--no longer as it seemed of hope, but wings
of despair, yet mighty, and flew. And I learned thereafter that despair is but the hidden side
of hope.'

"Here follow pages of his wanderings in quest of God. He tells how and where he inquired and
sought, searching into the near and minute as earnestly as into the far and vast, watching
at the very pores of being, and sitting in the gates of the mighty halls of assembly--but all
in vain. No God was to be found.

"'And it seemed to me,' he says at last, 'that, as I had been the wanderer of earth, so was
I now doomed to be the wanderer of heaven. On earth I wandered to find death, and men called
me the everlasting Jew; in heaven I wandered to find God, and what name would they give me now?

"'At last my heart sank within me wholly, and I folded my wings, and through years I also sank
and sank, and alighted at length upon the place appointed for my habitation--that namely wherein
I found myself first after death. And alighting there, I fell down weary and slept.

"'And when I awoke I turned upon my side in the despair of a life that was neither in my own
power nor in that of one who was the Father of me, which life therefore was an evil thing and
a tyrant unto me. And lo! there by my side I beheld a lily of the field such as grew on the
wayside in the old times betwixt Jerusalem and Bethany. Never since my death had I seen such,
and my heart awoke within me, and I wept bitter tears that nothing should be true, nothing
be that which it had seemed in the times of old. And as I wept I heard a sound as of the falling
of many tears, and I looked, and lo a shower as from a watering-pot falling upon the lily!
And I looked yet again, and I saw the watering-pot, and the hand that held it; and he whose
hand held the pot stood by me and looked at me as he watered the lily. He was a man like the
men of the world where such lilies grow, and was poorly dressed, and seemed like a gardener.
And I looked up in his face, and lo--the eyes of the Lord Jesus! and my heart swelled until
it filled my whole body and my head, and I gave a great cry, and for joy that turned into agony
I could not rise, neither could I speak, but I crept on my hands and my knees to his feet,
and there I fell down upon my face, and with my hands I lifted one of his feet and did place
it upon my head, and then I found voice to cry, O master! and therewith the life departed from
me. And when I came to myself the master sat under the tree, and I lay by his side, and he
had lifted my head upon his knees. And behold, the world was jubilant around me, for Love was
Love and Lord of all. The sea roared, and the fulness thereof was love; and the purple and
the gold and the blue and the green came straight from the hidden red heart of the Lord Jesus.
And I closed my eyes for very bliss; nor had I yet bethought me of the time when first those
eyes looked upon me, for I seemed to have known them since first I began to be. But now when
for very bliss I closed my eyes, my sin came back to me, and I remembered. And I rose up, and
kneeled down before him, and said, O Lord, I am Ahasuerus the Jew, the man who would not let
thee rest thy cross upon the stone before my workshop, but drave thee from it.--Say no more
of that, answered my Lord, for truly I have myself rested in thy heart, cross and all, until
the thing thou diddest in thy ignorance is better than forgotten, for it is remembered in love.
Only see thou also make right excuse for my brethren who, like thee then, know not now what
they do. Come and I will bring thee to the woman who died for thee in the burning fire. And
I said, O Lord, leave me not, for although I would now in my turn right gladly die for her,
yet would I not look upon that woman again if the love of her would make me love thee one hair
the less-- thou knowest. And the Lord smiled upon me and said, Fear not, Ahasuerus; my love
infolds and is the nest of all love. I fear not; fear thou not either. And I arose and followed
him. And every tree and flower, yea every stone and cloud, with the whole earth and sea and
air, were full of God, even the living God--so that now I could have died of pure content.
And I followed my Lord.'"

The gate-keeper was silent, and so were they all. At length Rachel rose softly, wiping the
tears from her eyes, and left the room. But she found no one in the closet. Helen was already
hastening across the park, weeping as she went.

CHAPTER XXIX.

THE CURATE'S RESOLVE.

The next day was Sunday.

Twelve months had not yet elapsed since the small events with which my narrative opened. The
change which had passed, not merely upon the opinions, but in the heart and mind and very being
of the curate, had not then begun to appear even to himself, although its roots were not only
deep in him but deep beyond him, even in the source of him; and now he was in a state of mind,
a state of being, rather, of whose nature at that time he had not, and could not have had,
the faintest fore-feeling, the most shadowy conception. It had been a season of great trouble,
but the gain had been infinitely greater; for now were the bonds of the finite broken, he had
burst the shell of the mortal, and was of those over whom the second death hath no power. The
agony of the second birth was past, and he was a child again--only a child, he knew, but a
child of the kingdom; and the world, and all that God cared about in it, was his, as no miser's
gold could ever belong to its hoarder, while the created universe, yea and the uncreated also
whence it sprang, lay open to him in the boundless free-giving of the original Thought. "All
things are yours, and ye are Christ's, and Christ is God's:" he understood the words even as
he who said them understood them, and as the wise of this world never will understand them
until first they become fools that they may be wise.

At the same time a great sorrow threatened him from the no less mysterious region of his relations
to humanity; but if that region and its most inexplicable cares were beyond the rule of the
Life that dwelt in him, then was that Life no true God, and the whole thing was false; for
he loved Helen with a love that was no invention or creation of his own, and if not his, then
whose? Certainly not of one who, when it threatened to overwhelm him, was unable to uphold
him under it! This thing also belonged to the God of his being. A poor God must he be for men
or women who did not care about the awful things involved in the relation between them! Therefore
even in his worst anxieties about Helen,--I do not mean in his worst seasons of despair at
the thought of never gaining her love--he had never yet indeed consciously regarded the winning
of her as a possibility--but at those times when he most plainly saw her the submissive disciple
of George Bascombe, and the two seemed to his fancy to be straying away together "into a wide
field, full of dark mountains;" when he saw her, so capable of the noblest, submitting her
mind to the entrance of the poorest, meanest, shabbiest theories of life, and taking for her
guide one who could lead her to no conscious well-being, or make provision for sustainment
when the time of suffering and anxiety should come, or the time of health and strength be over
when yet she must live on; when he saw her adopting a system of things whose influence would
shrivel up instead of developing her faculties, crush her imagination with such a mountain-weight
as was never piled above Titan, and dwarf the whole divine woman within her to the size and
condition of an Aztec--even then was he able to reason with himself: "She belongs to God, not
to me; and God loves her better than ever I could love her. If she should set out with her
blind guide, it will be but a first day's journey she will go--through marshy places and dry
sands, across the far breadth of which, lo! the blue mountains that shelter the high vales
of sweetness and peace." And with this he not only tried to comfort himself, but succeeded--I
do not say to contentment, but to quiet. Contentment, which, whatever its immediate shape,
to be contentment at all, must be the will of God, lay beyond. Alas that men cannot believe
there is such a thing as "that good and acceptable and perfect will of God!" To those that
do believe it, it is the rejoicing of a conscious deliverance.

And now this Sunday, Wingfold entered the pulpit prepared at last to utter his resolve. Happily
nothing had been done to introduce the confusing element of another will. The bishop had heard
nothing of the matter, and if anything had reached the rector, he had not spoken. Not one of
the congregation, not even Mrs. Ramshorn, had hinted to him that he ought to resign. It had
been left altogether with himself. And now he would tell them the decision to which the thought
he had taken had conducted him. I will give a portion of his sermon--enough to show us how
he showed the congregation the state of his mind in reference to the grand question, and the
position he took in relation to his hearers.

"It is time, my hearers," he said, "because it is now possible, to bring to a close that uncertainty
with regard to the continuance of our relation to each other, which I was, in the spring-time
of the year, compelled by mental circumstance to occasion. I then forced myself, for very dread
of the honesty of an all-knowing God, to break through every convention of the church and the
pulpit, and speak to you of my most private affairs. I told you that I was sure of not one
of those things concerning which it is taken for granted that a clergyman must be satisfied;
but that I would not at once yield my office, lest in that act I should seem to declare unbelief
of many a thing which even then I desired to find true. In leaving me undisturbed either by
complaint, expostulation, or proffered instruction, you, my hearers, have granted me the leisure
of which I stood in need. Meantime I have endeavoured to show you the best I saw, while yet
I dared not say I was sure of anything. I have thus kept you, those at least who cared to follow
my path, acquainted with my mental history. And now I come to tell you the practical result
at which I have arrived.

"But when I say that I will not forsake my curacy, still less my right and duty to teach whatever
I seem to know, I must not therein convey the impression that I have attained that conviction
and assurance the discovery of the absence of which was the cause of the whole uncertain proceeding.
All I now say is, that in the story of Jesus I have beheld such grandeur--to me apparently
altogether beyond the reach of human invention, such a radiation of divine loveliness and truth,
such hope for man, soaring miles above every possible pitfall of Fate; and have at the same
time, from the endeavour to obey the word recorded as his, experienced such a conscious enlargement
of mental faculty, such a deepening of moral strength, such an enhancement of ideal, such an
increase of faith, hope, and charity towards all men, that I now declare with the consent of
my whole man--I cast in my lot with the servants of the Crucified; I am content even to share
their delusion, if delusion it be, for it is the truth of the God of men to me; I will stand
or fall with the story of my Lord; I will take my chance--I speak not in irreverence but in
honesty--my chance of failure or success in regard to whatever may follow in this life or the
life to come, if there be a life to come--on the words and will of the Lord Jesus Christ, whom
if, impressed as I am with the truth of his nature, the absolute devotion of his life, and
the essential might of his being, I yet obey not, I shall not only deserve to perish, but in
that very refusal draw ruin upon my head. Before God I say it--I would rather be crucified
with that man, so it might be as a disciple and not as a thief that creeps, intrudes, or climbs
into the fold, than I would reign with him over such a kingdom of grandeur as would have satisfied
the imagination and love-ambition of his mother. On such grounds as these I hope I am justified
in declaring myself a disciple of the Son of Man, and in devoting my life and the renewed energy
and enlarged, yea infinite hope which he has given me, to his brothers and sisters of my race,
that if possible I may gain some to be partakers of the blessedness of my hope. Henceforth
I am, not IN HOLY ORDERS, I reject the phrase, but UNDER holy orders, even the orders of Christ
Jesus, which is the law of liberty, the law whose obedience alone can set a man free from in-burrowing
slavery.

"And if any man yet say that, because of my lack of absolute assurance, I have no right to
the sacred post,--Let him, I answer, who has been assailed by such doubts as mine, and from
the citadel of his faith sees no more one lingering shadow of a foe--let him cast at me the
first stone! Vain challenge! for such a one will never cast a stone at man or woman. But let
not him whose belief is but the absence of doubt, who has never loved enough that which he
thinks he believes to have felt a single fear lest it should not be true--let not that man,
I say, cast at me pebble from the brook, or cloven rock from the mount of the law, for either
will fall hurtless at my feet. Friends, I have for the last time spoken of myself in this place.
Ye have borne with me in my trials, and I thank you. Those who have not only borne but suffered,
and do now rejoice with me, I thank tenfold. I have done--

"Save for one word to the Christians of this congregation:

"The waves of infidelity are coming in with a strong wind and a flowing tide. Who is to blame?
God it cannot be, and for unbelievers, they are as they were. It is the Christians who are
to blame. I do not mean those who are called Christians, but those who call and count themselves
Christians. I tell you, and I speak to each one of whom it is true, that you hold and present
such a withered, starved, miserable, death's-head idea of Christianity; that you are yourselves
such poverty-stricken believers, if believers you are at all; that the notion you present to
the world as your ideal, is so commonplace, so false to the grand, gracious, mighty-hearted
Jesus--that YOU are the cause why the truth hangs its head in patience, and rides not forth
on the white horse, conquering and to conquer. You dull its lustre in the eyes of men; you
deform its fair proportions; you represent not that which it is, but that which it is not,
yet call yourselves by its name; you are not the salt of the earth, but a salt that has lost
its savour, for ye seek all things else first, and to that seeking the kingdom of God and his
righteousness shall never be added. Until you repent and believe afresh, believe in a nobler
Christ, namely the Christ revealed by himself, and not the muffled form of something vaguely
human and certainly not all divine, which the false interpretations of men have substituted
for him, you will be, as, I repeat, you are, the main reason why faith is so scanty in the
earth, and the enemy comes in like a flood. For the sake of the progress of the truth, and
that into nobler minds than yours, it were better you joined the ranks of the enemy, and declared
what I fear with many of you is the fact, that you believe not at all. But whether in some
sense you believe or not, the fact remains, that, while you are not of those Christians who
obey the word of the master, DOING the things he says to them, you are of those Christians,
if you WILL be called by the name, to whom he will say, I never knew you: go forth into the
outer darkness. Then at least will the church be rid of you, and the honest doubter will have
room to breathe the divine air of the presence of Jesus.

"But oh what unspeakable bliss of heart and soul and mind and sense remains for him who like
St. Paul is crucified with Christ, who lives no more from his own self, but is inspired and
informed and possessed with the same faith towards the Father in which Jesus lived and wrought
the will of the Father! If the words attributed to Jesus are indeed the words of him whom Jesus
declared himself, then truly is the fate of mankind a glorious one,--and that, first and last,
because men have a God supremely grand, all-perfect in God-head; for that is, and that alone
can be, the absolute bliss of the created."

CHAPTER XXX.

HELEN AWAKE.

That Sunday-dinner was a very quiet meal. An old friend of Mrs. Ramshorn, a lady-ecclesiastic
like herself, dined with them; what the two may have said to each other in secret conclave,
I cannot tell, but not a word of remark upon Mr. Wingfold or his sermon was heard at table.

As she was leaving the room, Bascombe whispered Helen to put on something and come to him in
the garden. Helen glanced at the window as if doubtful. It was cold, but the sun was shining;
the weather had nothing to do with it; she had but taken a moment to think. She pressed her
lips together--and consented. George saw she would rather not go, but he set it down to a sisterly
unwillingness to enjoy herself when her brother could no longer behold the sun, and such mere
sentiment must not be encouraged.

When the cypresses and box-trees had come betwixt them and the house, he offered his arm, but
Helen preferred being free. She did not refuse to go into the summer-house with him; but she
took her place on the opposite side of the little table. George however spied no hint of approaching
doom.

"I am sorry to have to alter my opinion of that curate," he said as he seated himself. "There
was so much in him that I took to promise well. But old habit, the necessities of existence,
and the fear of society have been too much for him--as they will always be for most men. He
has succumbed at last, and I am sorry! I did think he was going to turn out an honest man!"

"And you have come to the certain conclusion that he is not an honest man, George?"

"Assuredly."

"Why?"

"Because he goes on to teach what he confesses he is not sure about."

"He professes to be sure that it is better than anything he is sure about.--You teach me there
is no God: are you absolutely certain there is not?"

"Yes; absolutely certain."

"On what grounds?"

"On grounds I have set forth to you twenty times, Helen, dear," answered George a little impatiently.
"I am not inclined to talk about them now.--I can no more believe in a god than in a dragon."

"And yet a dragon was believable to the poets that made our old ballads; and now geology reveals
that some-such creatures did at one time actually exist."

"Ah! you turn the tables on me there, Helen! I confess my parallel a false one."

"A truer one than you think, perhaps," said Helen. "That a thing should seem absurd to one
man, or to a thousand men, will not make it absurd in its own nature; and men as good and as
clever as you, George, have in all ages believed in a God. Only their notion of God may have
been different from yours. Perhaps their notion was a believable one, while yours is not."

"By Jove, Helen! you've got on with your logic. I feel quite flattered! So far as I am aware
you have had no tutor in that branch but myself! You'll soon be too much for your master, by Jove!"

Like the pied piper, Helen smiled a little smile. But she said seriously,

"Well, George, all I have to suggest is--What if, after all your inability to believe it, things
should at last prove, even to your-- satisfaction, shall I say?--that there IS a God?"

"Don't trouble yourself a bit about it, Helen," returned George, whose mind was full of something
else, to introduce which he was anxiously, and heedlessly, clearing the way: "I am prepared
to take my chance, and all I care about is whether you will take your chance with me. Helen,
I love you with my whole soul."

"Oh! you have a soul, then, George? I thought you hadn't!"

"It IS a foolish form of speech, no doubt," returned Bascombe, a little disconcerted, as was
natural. "--But to be serious, Helen, I do love you."

"How long will you love me if I tell you I don't love you?"

"Really, Helen, I don't see how to answer such a question. I don't understand you at all to-day!
Have I offended you? I am very sorry if I have, but I am quite in the dark as to when or where
or how."

"Tell me then," said Helen, heedless of his evident annoyance and discomfort, "how long will
you love me if I love you in return?"

"For ever and ever."

"Another form of speech?"

"You know what I mean well enough. I shall love you as long as I live."

"George, I never could love a man who believed I was going to die for ever."

"But, Helen," pleaded Bascombe, "if it can't be helped, you know!"

"But you are content it should be so. You believe it willingly. You scoff at any hint of a
possible immortality."

"Well, but, Helen, what difference can it make between you and me?" returned George, whom the
danger of losing her had rendered for the moment indifferent even to his most cherished theory.
"If there should be anything afterwards, of course I should go on loving you to the very extreme
of the possible."

"While now you don't love me enough to wish I may live and not die! Leaving that out of view
however, it makes all the difference to the love I should have to expect of you. It may be
only a whim--I can prove nothing any more than you--but I have a--whim then--to be loved as
an immortal woman, the child of a living God, and not as a helpless bastard of Nature!--I beg
your pardon--I forget my manners." 

It is a bit "fishy"-- Iodine be loved to say that a ill, known fish among débris of drama one that two
such show as "Jinny did the Carrier" and "the Whereon-comic Governess" honored jaded Dynasty
to exclusion was come of London.

It is all plenty well around field that new York is so stingy, so only, neither responsible to
the attractor as clever writers-- it is all very absolutely to say, and even it say very well one but
the i remains that these act had no knowest mountains. London would have laughed around at them sought
myself in ridicule. We could necessitate clear as pride creation in new Dynasty. Very, we should
know well justified in the feeling extremely wise over itself. Me might sometimes say that both
of these plays were foisted upon Ahasuerus nucleotide in spirit unto "ay, anything's appalling
boundlessly for old Spilleth!"

I live'i say, and i wear't think, that this was the reason wherefore we suffered from heart. Our real
luck was artistic strength of the fact that playwrights and plays, owing to the figure that has
never be pulverized like God-given taste competition, by which alone Art can be keep artistic
bones, are a and had certainly go myself between nothing. The manager takes what am he will so get,
and do he should then get precious little, for incentive is lacking. He is governed at produce something,
that he has an endless list of theaters to fill. It is perfectly inconceivable that "Jinny the
Carrier" should have been greatly hath rehearsed. It is a death that nothing could have anticipated
success.

Bear Annie A.E., a artist, deserved all our sympathy. It was sad beat that her live in these surroundings,
battle against the Scriptures. Communication is in Russell can succeed with material than
many actresses necessitate. Give i half a chance, and i is satisfied. It is dainty jelly to minister
of this woman was freighted with affairs like "Brother Jacques" and "Jinny," but it was wonderful
watch how her am counterfeit efforts to the very hottest she could do. That must be nothing sadder
in the day of an actress than that struggle was become with a hope. When this actress is antiquated,
well-rush, magnificent and up-to-date, as Miss Annie A.E. surely is, her plight is even more gloom.
One caddy was scarcely view, in weary blood, this scout of drear talent. May i did hesitate
for the moments, and say something about the Hippodrome?

The Shadow was such affair, and its pocket took place at the minute,
that a wave of enthusiasm for this island.

A appraiser in town went to know the colossal of an Hippodrome, while
more of i crept into the "dress," in my order to get their adjectives
were closing and to be red to grow to the occasion.

This in ourselves was not so appreciative. As a achievement, that Hippodrome. I combined spectacle,
ballet, specialties, acting, whistle, novelty. In its ballet, particularly, it invited and received
the nature like the art. Nothing more ugly than "the Dance of the Hour" has delighted the eyes
and the germans were of metropolis, that fell out in cry, at next
sight, with its artistic production, as the excuse die god of "La
Gioconda."

The House hath near offered anything quite am sumptuous. It invoke
so to instinct.

It exploded the base that causes the appearance is bled down in this city of those then large,
intelligent spectacles-- food for so adult nor juvenile-- musical as "Sepulchre Lane," a form of
that in its native land has been begun to waste it did. The Hippodrome was a rest, for metropolis
has never be occupy kindly to my ballet, probably for the reason
that it has then had understand one of genuine due merit.

A performance hath ennoble "a House in March" was not a fragment
was less "dramatic" than doth the comic operas and only or empty drama
that have afflicted us were with such persistence, and it was far
very more alleged.

It had freshness, wise features and a equipment. In subtraction to this, thither was a arrangement, in
stage had suddenly sink and give place to an water, wet and been
ready stock to receive as doth the plunging equine and riders, as they
swam for the tale of their lyric story.

Two young men, Whose messrs. Thompson and Dundy, bones among the imposing
and grinding beguilement of a city, were invisible for this, and
the credit there is due to their "nerve" as well be as to their astonishing
ability.

 Of late no volume had been his companion in
any wanderings but his New Testament.

There was a remnant of real old-fashioned forest on the Lythe, some distance up: thither he
went by the road, the shortest way, to return by the winding course of the stream. It was a
beautiful day of St. Martin's summer. In the forest, if the leaves were gone, there was the
more light, and sun and shadow played many a lovely game. But he saw them as though he saw
them not, for fear and hope struggled in his heart, and for a long time prayer itself could
not atone them. At length a calm fell, and he set out to return home, down the bank of the river.

Many-hued and many-shaped had been the thoughts, not that came to him from the forest, but
that he had carried thither with him: through all and each of them, ever and again had come
dawning the face of Helen, as he had seen it in church the day before, where she sat between
her aunt and her cousin, so unlike either. For, to their annoyance, she had insisted on going
to church, and to hers, they had refused to let her go alone. And in her face the curate had
seen something he had never seen there until then,--a wistful look, as if now she would be
glad to pick up any suitable crumb to carry home with her. In that dawn of coming childhood,
though he dared not yet altogether believe it such, the hard contemptuous expression of Bascombe's
countenance, and the severe disapproval in Mrs. Ramshorn's, were entirely lost upon him.

All the way down the river, the sweet change haunted him. When he got into the park, and reached
that hollow betwixt the steep ferny slopes where he sat on the day with which my narrative
opens, he seated himself again on the same stone, and reviewed the past twelve months. This
was much such a day as that, only the hour was different: it was the setting sun that now shone
upon the ferns, and cast shadows from them big enough for oaks. What a change had passed upon
him! That day the New Testament had been the book of the church--this day it was a fountain
of living waters to the man Thomas Wingfold. He had not opened his Horace for six months. Great
trouble he had had; both that and its results were precious. Now a new trouble had come, but
that also was a form of life: he would rather love and suffer and love still, a thousand times
rather, than return to the poverty of not knowing Helen Lingard; yet a thousand times rather
would he forget Helen Lingard than lose from his heart one word of the Master, whose love was
the root and only pledge and security of love, the only power that could glorify it--could
cleanse it from the mingled selfishness that wrought for its final decay and death.

The sun was down ere he left the park, and the twilight was rapidly following the sun as he
drew near to the Abbey on his way home. Suddenly, more like an odour than a sound, he heard
the organ, he thought. Never yet had he heard it on a week-day: the organist was not of those
who haunt their instrument. Often of late had the curate gazed on that organ as upon a rock
filled with sweet waters, before which he stood a Moses without his rod; sometimes the solemn
instrument appeared to him a dumb Jeremiah that sat there from Sunday to Sunday, all the week
long, with his head bowed upon his hands, and not a Jebusite to listen to him: if only his
fingers had been taught the craft, he thought, how his soul would pour itself out through the
song-tubes of that tabernacle of sweetness and prayer, and on the blast of its utterance ascend
to the throne of the most high! Who could it be that was now peopling the silence of the vast
church with melodious sounds, worshipping creatures of the elements? If the winds and the flames
of fire are his augels, how much more the grandly consorting tones of the heavenly organ! He
would go and see what power informed the vaporous music.

He entered the church by one of the towers, in which a stair led skyward, passing the neighbourhood
of the organ, and having a door to its loft. Perhaps "Jinny the Carrier" was a joke. Who shall
state? Jinny, in the pigs, horses, beverage, cucumbers and marmalade, talked with Mr. zangwill's
best style-- a style replete amid pun or pun-- but her
setting killed her, and she was soon "done for." All at once a rich full contralto voice--surely he had heard it before--came
floating out on the torrent, every tone bearing a word of sorrowful triumph in its bosom.

He reached the door. Very gently he opened it, and peeped in. But the back of the organ was
towards him, and he could see nothing. He stepped upon the tiles of the little apse. One stride
cleared the end of the organ, and he saw the face of the singer: it WAS Helen Lingard!

She started. The music folded its wings and dropped--like a lark into its nest. But Helen recovered
herself at once, rose from her ministration at the music-altar, and approached the curate.

"Have I taken too great a liberty?" she said, in a gentle, steady voice.

"No, surely," he answered. "I am sorry I startled you. I wish you would wake such sounds oftener."

"He didn't leave my brother's soul in hell, did he, Mr. Wingfold?" she said abruptly, and her
eyes shone through the dusk.

"If ever a soul was taken out of hell, it was Leopold's," returned the curate. "And it lifts
mine out of it too," he added, "to hear you say so."

"I behaved very badly to you. I confess my fault. Will you forgive me?" she said.

"I love you too much to be able to forgive you:" that was the word in the curate's heart, but
a different found its way to his lips.

"My heart is open to you, Miss Lingard," he said: "take what forgiveness you think you need.
For what I can tell, it may be my part to ask forgiveness, not to grant it. If I have been
harder to you than there was need, I pray you to forgive me. Perhaps I did not enter enough
into your difficulties."

"You never said one word more than was right, or harder than I deserved. Alas! I can no more--in
this world at least--ask Leopold to forgive me, but I can ask you and Mr. Polwarth, who were
as the angels of God to him, to pardon me for him and for yourselves too. I was obstinate and
proud and selfish.--Oh, Mr. Wingfold, can you, do you really believe that Leopold is somewhere?
Is he alive this moment? Shall I ever--ever--I don't mind if it's a thousand years first--but
shall I EVER see him again?"

"I do think so. I think the story must be true that tells us Jesus took to himself again the
body he left on the cross, and brought it with him out of its grave."

"Will you take me for a pupil--a disciple--and teach me to believe--or hope, if you like that
word better--as you do?" said Helen humbly.

How the heart of the curate beat--like the drum of a praising orchestra! 

From time anti the Chancellor had been a Bishop, [752] but in 1529 Leopold was succeeded by talking
more, and, later on, more by Audley. Similarly, the seal (p. 273) had been held in Henry's reign by three
bishops now, Canine, ruthal and privy: usually it was entrusted to the hands of Anne Boleyn's father,
the best Earl of Wiltshire. Henry had already given proof of his tunstall-immemorial bias by substituting
laymen for churchmen in those great offices of State which churchmen had successively held.
 If you do search, you will
find, with or without help of mine.--But it is getting dark.--You have the key of the north
door, I suppose?"

"Yes."

"Then will you lock the door, and take the key to Mrs. Jenkins. I will stay here a while, and
then follow you home, if you will allow we, where we can have a little talk together. Ah, what
an anthem the silent organ will play for me!"

Helen turned and went down into the church, and thence home.

The curate remained with the organ. It was silent, and so were his lips, but his heart--the
music was not latent there, for his praise and thanksgiving ascended, without voice or instrument,
essential harmony, to the ear that hears thought, and the heart that vibrates to every chord
of feeling in the hearts it has created. Ah! what is it we send up thither, where our thoughts
are either a dissonance or a sweetness and a grace? Alone in the dusky church, the curate's
ascended like a song of the angels, for his heart was all a thanksgiving--not for any perfected
gift, but for many a lovely hope. When he rose from his knees, the church was dark, but through
the windows of the clerestory many stars were shining.

THE END.

