A WRITER'S RECOLLECTIONS (IN TWO VOLUMES), VOLUME I

BY MRS. HUMPHRY WARD

Published November, 1918

To

T. H. W.

(In memory of April 6, 1872)

CONTENTS

CHAPTER

   I. EARLY DAYS

  II. FOX HOW

 III. THE FAMILY OF FOX HOW

  IV. OTHER CHILDREN OF FOX HOW

   V. THE FRIENDS OF FOX HOW

  VI. YOUNG DAYS AT OXFORD

 VII. BALLIOL AND LINCOLN

VIII. EARLY MARRIED LIFE

  IX. THE BEGINNINGS OF "ROBERT ELSMERE"

ILLUSTRATIONS

DR. THOMAS ARNOLD OP RUGBY  Frontispiece

MATTHEW ARNOLD

JOHN HENRY NEWMAN J

FOX HOW, THE WESTMORLAND HOME OF THE ARNOLDS

BENJAMIN JOWETT

A WRITER'S RECOLLECTIONS

CHAPTER I

EARLY DAYS

Do we all become garrulous and confidential as we approach the gates of old age? Is it that
we instinctively feel, and cannot help asserting, our one advantage over the younger generation,
which has so many over us?--the one advantage of time!

After all, it is not disputable that we have lived longer than they. When they talk of past
poets, or politicians, or novelists, whom the young still deign to remember, of whom for once
their estimate agrees with ours, we can sometimes put in a quiet, "I saw him"--or, "I talked
with him"--which for the moment wins the conversational race. And as we elders fall back before
the brilliance and glitter of the New Age, advancing "like an army with banners," this mere
prerogative of years becomes in itself a precious possession. After all, we cannot divest ourselves
of it, if we would. It is better to make friends with it--to turn it into a kind of panache--to
wear it with an air, since wear it we must.

So as the years draw on toward the Biblical limit, the inclination to look back, and to tell
some sort of story of what one has seen, grows upon most of us. I cannot hope that what I have
to say will be very interesting to many. A life spent largely among books, and in the exercise
of a literary profession, has very obvious drawbacks, as a subject-matter, when one comes to
write about it. I can only attempt it with any success, if my readers will allow me a large
psychological element. The thoughts and opinions of one human being, if they are sincere, must
always have an interest for some other human beings. The world is there to think about; and
if we have lived, or are living, with any sort of energy, we must have thought about it, and
about ourselves in relation to it--thought "furiously" often. And it is out of the many "thinkings"
of many folk, strong or weak, dull or far-ranging, that thought itself grows. For progress
surely, whether in men or nations, means only a richer knowledge; the more impressions, therefore,
on the human intelligence that we can seize and record, the more sensitive becomes that intelligence
itself.

But of course the difficulty lies in the seizing and recording--in the choice, that is, of
what to say, and how to say it. In this choice, as I look back over more than half a century,
I can only follow--and trust--the same sort of instinct that one follows in the art of fiction.
I shall be telling what is primarily true, or as true as I can make it, as distinguished from
what is primarily imagination, built on truth. But the truth one uses in fiction must be interesting!
Milton expresses that in the words "sensuous" and "passionate," which he applies to poetry
in the Areopagitica. And the same thing applies to autobiography, where selection is even more
necessary than in fiction. Nothing ought to be told, I think, that does not interest or kindle
one's own mind in looking back; it is the only condition on which one can hope to interest
or kindle other minds. And this means that one ought to handle things broadly, taking only
the salient points in the landscape of the past, and of course with as much detachment as possible.
Though probably in the end one will have to admit--egotists that we all are!--that not much
detachment is possible.

For me, the first point that stands out is the arrival of a little girl of five, in the year
1856, at a gray-stone house in a Westmorland valley, where, fourteen years earlier, the children
of Arnold of Rugby, the "Doctor" of Tom Brown's Schooldays, had waited on a June day, to greet
their father, expected from the South, only to hear, as the summer day died away, that two
hours' sharp illness, that very morning, had taken him from them. Of what preceded my arrival
as a black-haired, dark-eyed child, with my father, mother, and two brothers, at Fox How, the
holiday house among the mountains which the famous headmaster had built for himself in 1834,
I have but little recollection. I see dimly another house in wide fields, where dwarf lilies
grew, and I know that it was a house in Tasmania, where at the time of my birth my father,
Thomas Arnold, the Doctor's second son, was organizing education in the young colony. I can
just recall, too, the deck of a ship which to my childish feet seemed vast--but the William
Brown was a sailing-ship of only 400 tons!--in which we made the voyage home in 1856. Three
months and a half we took about it, going round the Horn in bitter weather, much run over by
rats at night, and expected to take our baths by day in two huge barrels full of sea water
on the deck, into which we children were plunged shivering by our nurse, two or three times
a week. My father and mother, their three children, and some small cousins, who were going
to England under my mother's care, were the only passengers.

I can remember, too, being lifted--weak and miserable with toothache--in my father's arms to
catch the first sight of English shores as we neared the mouth of the Thames; and then the
dismal inn by the docks where we first took shelter. The dreary room where we children slept
the first night, its dingy ugliness and its barred windows, still come back to me as a vision
of horror. Next day, like angels of rescue, came an aunt and uncle, who took us away to other
and cheerful quarters, and presently saw us off to Westmorland. The aunt was my godmother,
Doctor Arnold's eldest daughter--then the young wife of William Edward Forster, a Quaker manufacturer,
who afterward became the well-known Education Minister of 1870, and was Chief Secretary for
Ireland in the terrible years 1880-82.

To my mother and her children, Fox How and its inmates represented much that was new and strange.
My mother was the granddaughter of one of the first Governors of Tasmania, Governor Sorell,
and had been brought up in the colony, except for a brief schooling at Brussels. Of her personal
beauty in youth we children heard much, as we grew up, from her old Tasmanian friends and kinsfolk
who would occasionally drift across us; and I see as though I had been there a scene often
described to me--my mother playing Hermione in the "Winter's Tale," at Government House when
Sir William Denison was Governor--a vision, lovely and motionless, on her pedestal, till at
the words, "Music! awake her! Strike!" she kindled into life. Her family were probably French
in origin. Governor Sorell had been a man of promise in his youth. His father, General William
Alexander Sorell, of the Coldstream Guards, was a soldier of some eminence, whose two sons,
William and Thomas, both served under Sir John Moore and at the Cape. But my great-grandfather
ruined his military career, while he was Deputy Adjutant-General at the Cape, by a love-affair
with a brother officer's wife, and was banished or promoted--whichever one pleases to call
it--to the new colony of Tasmania, of which he became Governor in 1816. His eldest son, by
the wife he had left behind him in England, went out as a youth of twenty-one or so, to join
his father, the Governor, in Tasmania, and I possess a little calf-bound diary of my grandfather
written in a very delicate and refined hand, about the year 1823. 

Peace be hurt by this answer, and diverting eyes from him, was silent, but his attitude and the
expression on his face showed no anger, but bitterness. It seemed that he had spoken so had
authority to do so. Pepe said in surprise:

- Excuse you, but the error is not mine. It took you as a cry of poverty mocked, perhaps an unconscious
envy what has been a very simple observation. How could You believe that I dared to so much? What
am I to you, Miss? Only spoken Were you honored me pay for it with
rudeness or lightness?

- Say no more the case.

What I want is to know that I have not offended you - and he extended a friendly hand.

Both were stunned, and since then were more reserved one for another. Peace remonstrated mentally,
thinking that Pepe injuring the shame of poverty had made very ugly action. Pepe did not succeed
to define what he felt.

Their lives began to come together as in the bed of the river tend
to gather, drawn by current grain of sand and the gold particle.

VI

When Pepe finished the job for which he was called, he stopped going to Don Luis: something like
fear him away from there. The last morning was, taking advantage of a time left they could
not watch him. They asked their parents if they had paid, and said: - "I was not Don Luis, and
see him in the Senate. "The truth was that, like M. de Agreda who any expenditure was met Peace,
Pepe was loath to the idea that it was she who put in the handful of hard labor provided by
his father.

For the first time I felt spring up in the background pride of the soul: a bad drive was a
precursor of more noble sentiment, so sometimes in the spirit of man, as in the life of nature,
precedes the shadow to the splendor the day.

One week elapsed without Pepe return home, Paz was accused of this, and worried with that disappearance,
and thought about the poor lad if he were a friend offended: it also
agreed that he had not paid, but could not think of sending the discrete
mode money.

Why a servant? He could not explain the cause, but for anything in the world had valid for
such a medium. Write her? To imagine, was not afraid to hurt that
crossed his imagination, but rather as a vague fear, shame mortified
by itself.

At the end did nothing, not even dared to speak to his father, but never stopped thinking about
it and there was day, crossing the room of books, experienced disgust and sadness.

Gradually the light grew in his soul.

       His ears, made to flattery, no never heard phrases the mob, nothing
made her feel those men who might want it as a jewel placed at their
fingertips, and now she put spontaneous and stubborn determination
to remember simple sayings, the most insignificant compliments of
a pauper, who was terrified a cost of five thousand.

What sometimes seemed romantic to the ridiculous, others times felt like to mourn.

* * * * *

One morning in the spring of 1872 - eight or nine months before that dinner where parents Pepe
spoke about the upcoming arrival of Tirso - were in San Pascual, de Recoletos, playing Mass of eleven.
The sun lit up the grass of the little gardens, polished by moisture and obscured in spots by
the shadows of the acacias, whose aroma perfuming the air. About the deep blue sky stood out
dark green tops of some pine trees, the branches, including purple and crimson, love the trees,
pretending Japanese background details, and Boxes waterlogged stood the pungent smell of wet
earth. Children played on the floor glazing with yellow sand-colored outfits, and fell crying
undercuts the trees, while the nurses were laughing in chorus some shameless lackey. In the
banks, each with a newspaper in his hand, had some old gentlemen, types retired military, the
elderly infirm that shaking the numbness of winter went in search of warm sunshine. In Aguaducho,
full of glasses, the towering beacon of sugar cubes and the jar with spigot, after which thick
belly hid the jar sour cherries and plate rolls, while the water carrier, giving a talk saved, washed
in the basin brass spoons. At the center of the circular walk quickly some spirited horse drawn
carriages along the line of chairs iron unemployed were a few cabs to hack down the neck and the driver
lying on spelling out the box Cowbell. On the other hand, the trams ran on rails, blocked
by cars and trucks, their drivers cursing aside of the road when he heard the whistle foremen,
and the long stone pavement, silent, step by step from top to bottom, authoritatively the couple
was bored guard public order, then called yellow take comfort that no other subversive looks good-looking
maids. In the neighboring streets they arrived just combed and flirty ladies willing to make
the groom out to meet the girls eager to play and loaded moms devotional subjects Autumn gum.
A fast walking the way from impatience, other tired with the fat of the years, looking, according
to your taste, exquisite elegance, workshop arrangements homemade oddities fad, fashion hype, some
simply calculated and all hard to please. At the door of the temple we stopped from time to
time a sedan emblazoned, and slowly got out of it a lady, the more powerful less adorned, showing sleepiness
eyes leaving the overnight, and the withered face burning tracks the atmosphere of the holidays.
A quick and short little steps, bending the body into the earth, head down and fearful awareness
of late, came attached to the facades of the the little old house shoes and black shawl goat, and
they were going ahead devout girls, as ignoring the power of youth, calling incessantly to heaven
those that can give the world. The bell was calling them with his monotonous ring, and all
came as a flock to the fold: ugly, beautiful, rich, miserable, virtuous, lost, holy, sinful,
mothers, courtesans, the household vestal or priestess of love, all, elbowing, together, they
disappeared swallowed up by the door of the church, raising to enter a portiere heavier than
a slab and quickly hinting charged atmosphere, dirty, smoky and dotted with the yellow glow of
candlelight.

Throughout the morning he was renewing that audience, mostly women,
and the door women swallowing was then thrown into the street past
twenty or thirty minutes after which I saw them opening out or unfolding
umbrellas fans, because sunlight the offended, and his retina accustomed
to the darkness of the holy cave.

Some men also fell, but the greatest number of them remained in the little gardens forming
a circle, discussing the day's news had just read in the newspapers
that sellers hawked around him with the last parts of the North.

Towards the street could be heard Alcalá jingle of the buses that went to the section of the
bulls, and walking slowly along the seafront, sun-drenched, came the donkey with baskets full of pots,
listening to screaming from time to time to fine fellow who led them: the tieestóo of claaveles
doobles ... Those who came the outcry could hear fragments of conversations and noticing, perhaps,
some of which up there with him to his wife or daughter defended the ideas of the century with
words impregnated of modern wickedness.

- Items are on the rise.

- They say that the King goes to the Northern army.

- If this does
not hold, we go right to Don Carlos.

- Well, you believe that religious
fanaticism debases us to cultured Europe.

- I fear I have is who
the Republicans.

Let us go to a ninety-three awful.

- All evil passions have made their way.

- Up to form a league they have to lose!

- Every day a meeting! I even peaceful demonstrations by top of the setae.

- Calle you, man, by God!

That is not compatible with the government.

In times of Don Ramon and Don Leopoldo had mitins!

It will come.

- Well, I think that the King wins sympathy.

- What has to win, man? If a foreigner!

- You are mistaken, Sir, that means nothing. History shows that Carlos
I and Philip V were also foreigners.

A group of ladies out high-pitched and shrill voices, trying to rags, fashion, gossip and servants.

-
Girl, no one knows what to wear: this is from last year.

- Well, I feel very good.

Look, look, there goes the impeller. The other night was that they were Castellana in the white
blanket and comb to tease the Kings.

- What a mess!

Queen To me I feel sorry.

- Daughter, what do you want? As the impeller was hostess Isabella!

Well I've heard that alfonsinos move much: - And this he said looking
sideways at a gentleman who sat in an iron chair, still with an eye
to the group of ladies.

Two chicks separated from their mothers held, with dengue fever and
grimaces, a lively dialogue.

- Do not you enter?

- No: Enrique's
father says the mass very slowly.

I also want to give time to get that. Mom left and enter the house.

Is the poor boy who drinks winds.

- What's yours?

- This just in June.

- Daughter, as you said a year ago. The race has that! ...

- Well, I like. He is more loving!

- Girl, with those suits seem striped zebras.

- Bye, Mom to be those of Zangolotino!

- Abur, remononísima.

The premature, fuming at the mouth and wearing American last summer, parody Don Juan Tenorio.

- I tell you this lady is not such a lady, and I have said he appears.

- Come on, boy, you shut up! I've followed two evenings, and not even looked at me.

- Well I know that you are dating.

- Yes! Disappointed.

- I come ... goodbye.

The bell sounded stronger, the beggars in the temple gate saddened
voice as they could, wet nurses were beginning to march like a donkey's
milk; Ladies entering or leaving the church, throwing envious looks,
the raging heat and walking it was becoming little more than desert,
hearing by the strong stone pavement taconear of girls passing by,
half hidden by the wide umbrellas in bright colors, while the mother
called to children, dogs running and playing mules stopped to look
at the pictures that were to step into the hand of the newspaper vendors.

Was slowly going around the world, and the bell stopped playing, there were only the tobacconist,
sitting next to her drawer, the wife of Aguaducho turning on a concave dish the pot of stew that
just bring a guy, and the pair of yellow, horse up, walk down, came from Cibeles to the Mint.

While the sexton, with his bunch of keys and his robe stained wax out Close the door of the temple, also
left two women: one, dressed modestly in black, gray hair, wrinkled face, lady-like modernized,
mittens and shoes lace of Rusel, the second set elegant and extremely simple, without ornament
or jewelry. Peace and her governess were.

- There has been the car - it said - Let's sit a while, no longer take .-- And began to make
drawings in the sand with the stick of the umbrella.

The old woman looked at the air as he thinks of the shrews. The power of the sun was rising; the shadows
of the acacias drew strongly on the ground and very black outlines, and Jardinillos was nothing
but a passerby spurred by the hope of lunch or some old gentleman laboriously dragging his feet
on the sand. The water carrier was savoring his frugal meal, and the tobacconist dozed thrown
face down on the stone of test currency. Suddenly the car arrived Peace and stood to walk across.

-
Come on - said it pulled the groom seeing the box.

Peace Putting your foot in the stirrup suddenly turned to look at the costume of a lady passing,
and noticed that a few steps away, was a man, Pepe.

The girl hesitated for a moment: his first impulse was to call him, but felt in the face a wave
of heat and embarrassed his own idea, sat down beside the old. Then he saw Pepe and took off his
hat: She bowed her head, giving her eyes a look of affectionate confidence, and then for a few
seconds, he was leaning toward the window: Pepe remained still. When starting the horses became
Peace at him, and then, without realizing it, his eyes were riveted
on the boy sadly, leaving the lids then fall slowly that look as if
they intend to ship an expression of sympathy and a complaint.

Pepe, that had not moved yet, stood amazed, confused, with the admiration that creates an impression
never felt. It was not in vain conceit that he entered the soul, nor vainglory sudden absurd
adventures, but a very great surprise. What those signs were born of pleasure, restrained, but very
clear? The moment of hesitation to get in the car, and then sweet,
sad look, what they mean? Impregnated loving that expression of modesty,
but obvious, why obey? Might not be everything, but some of that sympathy
which, like alms, exempts the powerful to the miserable. The pessimism,
the constant companion of misfortune said he was right. What else
could it be? But then the imagination defeated sanity and the folly
of thinking overcame the chill lied that he wanted to flaunt Pepe
before it itself. His mood was rapidly passing the biggest disappointment
to the more fanciful hope and finally, after many entertainment options
and weakness, fearing that the novelistic degenerate into ridiculous,
decided not to ever put foot in the house of M. de Agreda, or never
pass by Recoletos to the hours of mass.

Indeed ... Sunday was another
Recoletos with the intent to see her without her noticing and, when
he saw the car, entered the church, staying in the shade, next to
the entry screen. A moment later the nurse came Peace and merged in
a group with other women, let them fall pass, and as they knelt, advanced
to put in place suitable to look on taste, without being seen.

The
church was embroiled in a semi-shade gray and dirty, the light falling
from the high windows of the cupola, hidden by thick blue curtains,
not enough to clarify the environment. From time to time campanillazos
sounded, and sometimes the clash of the rooms inside the brush an
acolyte presented to the faithful asking for this holy iglesiaaa cultooo.
 He had only courage, youth, sincerity, and a charming presence which made
him friends at sight. His mother, indeed, with her gentle wisdom, put no obstacles in his way.
On the contrary, she remembered that her husband had felt a keen imaginative interest in the
colonies, and had bought small sections of land near Wellington, which his second son now proposed
to take up and farm. But some of the old friends of the family felt and expressed consternation.
In particular, Baron Bunsen, then Prussian Ambassador to England, Arnold of Rugby's dear and
faithful friend, wrote a letter of earnest and affectionate remonstrance to the would-be colonist.
Let me quote it, if only that it may remind me of days long ago, when it was still possible
for a strong and tender friendship to exist between a Prussian and an Englishman!

Bunsen points out to "young Tom" that he has only been eight or nine months in the Colonial
Office, not long enough to give it a fair trial; that the drudgery of his clerkship will soon
lead to more interesting things; that his superiors speak well of him; above all, that he has
no money and no practical experience of farming, and that if he is going to New Zealand in
the hope of building up a purer society, he will soon find himself bitterly disillusioned.

    Pray, my dear young friend, do not reject the voice of a man of
    nearly sixty years, who has made his way through life under much
    greater difficulties perhaps than you imagine--who was your father's
    dear friend--who feels deeply attached to all that bears the honored
    and blessed name of Arnold--who in particular had your father's
    promise that he would allow me to offer to you, after I had seen
    you in 1839, something of that care and friendship he had bestowed
    upon Henry [Bunsen's own son]--do not reject the warning voice of
    that man, if he entreats you solemnly not to take a precipitate
    step. Give yourself time. Try a change of scene. Go for a month
    or two to France or Germany. I am sure you wish to satisfy your
    friends that you are acting wisely, considerately, in giving up
    what you have.

    Spartam quam nactus es, orna--was Niebuhr's word to me when once,
    about 1825, wearied with diplomatic life, I resolved to throw up my
    place and go--not to New Zealand, but to a German University. Let me
    say that concluding word to you and believe me, my dear young friend,

    Your sincere and affectionate friend

    BUNSEN.

    P.S.--If you feel disposed to have half an hour's quiet conversation
    with me alone, pray come to-day at six o'clock, and then dine with us
    quietly at half-past six. I go to-morrow to Windsor Castle for four
    days.

Nothing could have been kinder, nothing more truly felt and meant. But the young make their
own experience, and my father, with the smiling open look which disarmed opposition, and disguised
all the time a certain stubborn independence of will, characteristic of him through life, took
his own way. He went to New Zealand, and, now that it was done, the interest and sympathy of
all his family and friends followed him. Let me give here the touching letter which Arthur
Stanley, his father's biographer, wrote to him the night before he left England.

    UNIV. COLL., OXFORD, Nov. 4, 1847.

    Farewell!--(if you will let me once again recur to a relation so long
    since past away) farewell--my dearest, earliest, best of pupils. I
    cannot let you go without asking you to forgive those many annoyances
    which I fear I must have unconsciously inflicted upon you in the last
    year of your Oxford life--nor without expressing the interest which I
    feel, and shall I trust ever feel, beyond all that I can say, in your
    future course. You know--or perhaps you hardly can know--how when I
    came back to Oxford after the summer of 1842, your presence here was
    to me the stay and charm of my life--how the walks--the lectures--the
    Sunday evenings with you, filled up the void which had been left in
    my interests[1], and endeared to me all the beginnings of my College
    labors. That particular feeling, as is natural, has passed away--but
    it may still be a pleasure to you to feel in your distant home that
    whatever may be my occupations, nothing will more cheer and support
    me through them than the belief that in that new world your dear
    father's name is in you still loved and honored, and bringing forth
    the fruits which he would have delighted to see.

    Farewell, my dear friend. May God in whom you trust be with you.

    Do not trouble yourself to answer this--only take it as the true
    expression of one who often thinks how little he has done for you in
    comparison with what he would.

    Ever yours,

    A. P. STANLEY.

[Footnote 1: By the sudden death of Doctor Arnold.]

But, of course, the inevitable happened. After a few valiant but quite futile attempts to clear
his land with his own hands, or with the random labor he could find to help him, the young
colonist fell back on the education he had held so cheap in England, and bravely took school-work
wherever in the rising townships of the infant colony he could find it. Meanwhile his youth,
his pluck, and his Oxford distinctions had attracted the kindly notice of the Governor, Sir
George Grey, who offered him his private secretaryship--one can imagine the twinkle in the
Governor's eye, when he first came across my father building his own hut on his section outside
Wellington! The offer was gratefully refused. But another year of New Zealand life brought
reconsideration. The exile begins to speak of "loneliness" in his letters home, to realize
that it is "collision" with other kindred minds that "kindles the spark of thought," and presently,
after a striking account of a solitary walk across unexplored country in New Zealand, he confesses
that he is not sufficient for himself, and that the growth and vigor of the intellect were,
for him, at least, "not compatible with loneliness."

A few months later, Sir William Denison, the newly appointed Governor of Van Diemen's Land,
hearing that a son of Arnold of Rugby, an Oxford First Class man, was in New Zealand, wrote
to offer my father the task of organizing primary education in Van Diemen's Land.

He accepted--yet not, I think, without a sharp sense of defeat at the hands of Mother Earth!--set
sail for Hobart, and took possession of a post that might easily have led to great things.
His father's fame preceded him, and he was warmly welcomed. The salary was good and the field
free. Within a few months of his landing he was engaged to my mother. They were married in
1850, and I, their eldest child, was born in June, 1851.

And then the unexpected, the amazing thing happened. At the time of their marriage, and for
some time after, my mother, who had been brought up in a Protestant "scriptural" atmosphere,
and had been originally drawn to the younger "Tom Arnold," partly because he was the son of
his father, as Stanley's Life had now made the headmaster known to the world, was a good deal
troubled by the heretical views of her young husband. She had some difficulty in getting him
to consent to the baptism of his elder children. He was still in many respects the Philip of
the "Bothie," influenced by Goethe, and the French romantics, by Emerson, Kingsley, and Carlyle,
and in touch still with all that Liberalism of the later 'forties in Oxford, of which his most
intimate friend, Arthur Clough, and his elder brother, Matthew Arnold, were to become the foremost
representatives. But all the while, under the surface, an extraordinary transformation was
going on. He was never able to explain it afterward, even to me, who knew him best of all his
children. I doubt whether he ever understood it himself. But he who had only once crossed the
High Street to hear Newman preach, and felt no interest in the sermon, now, on the other side
of the world, surrendered to Newman's influence. It is uncertain if they had ever spoken to
each other at Oxford; yet that subtle pervasive intellect which captured for years the critical
and skeptical mind of Mark Pattison, and indirectly transformed the Church of England after
Newman himself had left it, now, reaching across the world, laid hold on Arnold's son, when
Arnold himself was no longer there to fight it. A general reaction against the negations and
philosophies of his youth set in for "Philip," as inevitable in his case as the revolt against
St. Sulpice was for Ernest Renan. For my father was in truth born for religion, as his whole
later life showed. In that he was the true son of Arnold of Rugby. But his speculative Liberalism
had carried him so much farther than his father's had ever gone, that the recoil was correspondingly
great. The steps of it are dim. He was "struck" one Sunday with the "authoritative" tone of
the First Epistle of Peter. Who and what was Peter? What justified such a tone? At another
time he found a Life of St. Brigit of Sweden at a country inn, when he was on one of his school-inspecting
journeys across the island. And he records a mysterious influence or "voice" from it, as he
rode in meditative solitude through the sunny spaces of the Tasmanian bush. Last of all, he
"obtained"--from England, no doubt--the Tracts for the Times. And as he went through them,
the same documents, and the same arguments, which had taken Newman to Rome, nine years before,
worked upon his late and distant disciple. But who can explain "conversion"? Is it not enough
to say, as was said of old, "The Holy Ghost fell on them that believed"? The great "Malignant"
had indeed triumphed. In October, 1854, my father was received at Hobart, Tasmania, into the
Church of Rome; and two years later, after he had reached England, and written to Newman asking
the new Father of the Oratory to receive him, Newman replied:

    How strange it seems! What a world this is! I knew your father a
    little, and I really think I never had any unkind feeling toward him.
    I saw him at Oriel on the Purification before (I think) his death
    (January, 1842). I was glad to meet him. If I said ever a harsh
    thing against him I am very sorry for it. In seeing you, I should
    have a sort of pledge that he at the moment of his death made it
    all up with me. Excuse this. I came here last night, and it is so
    marvelous to have your letter this morning.

So, for the moment, ended one incident in the long bout between two noble fighters, Arnold
and Newman, each worthy of the other's steel. For my father, indeed, this act of surrender
was but the beginning of a long and troubled history. My poor mother felt as though the earth
had crumbled under her. Her passionate affection for my father endured till her latest hour,
but she never reconciled herself to what he had done. There was in her an instinctive dread
of Catholicism, of which I have suggested some of the origins--ancestral and historical. It
never abated. Many years afterward, in writing Helbeck of Bannisdale, I drew upon what I remembered
of it in describing some traits in Laura Fountain's inbred, and finally indomitable, resistance
to the Catholic claim upon the will and intellect of men.

And to this trial in the realm of religious feeling there were added all the practical difficulties
into which my father's action plunged her and his children. The Tasmanian appointment had to
be given up, for the feeling in the colony was strongly anti-Catholic; and we came home, as
I have described, to a life of struggle, privation, and constant anxiety, in which my mother
suffered not only for herself, but for her children.

But, after all, there were bright spots. My father and mother were young; my mother's eager,
sympathetic temper brought her many friends; and for us children, Fox How and its dear inmates
opened a second home, and new joys, which upon myself in particular left impressions never
to be effaced or undone. Let me try and describe that house and garden and those who lived
in it, as they were in 1856.

CHAPTER II

FOX HOW

The gray-stone house stands now, as it stood then, on a "how" or rising ground in the beautiful
Westmorland valley leading from Ambleside to Rydal. The "Doctor" built it as a holiday paradise
for himself and his children, in the year 1833. It is a modest building, with ten bedrooms
and three sitting-rooms. Its windows look straight into the heart of Fairfield, the beautiful
semicircular mountain which rears its hollowed front and buttressing scaurs against the north,
far above the green floor of the valley. That the house looked north never troubled my grandfather
or his children. What they cared for was the perfect outline of the mountain wall, the "pensive
glooms," hovering in that deep breast of Fairfield, the magic never-ending chase of sunlight
and cloud across it on fine days, and the beauty of the soft woodland clothing its base. The
garden was his children's joy as it became mine. Its little beck with its mimic bridges, its
encircling river, its rocky knolls, its wild strawberries and wild raspberries, its queen of
birch-trees rearing a stately head against the distant mountain, its rhododendrons growing
like weeds on its mossy banks, its velvet turf, and long silky grass in the parts left wild--all
these things have made the joy of three generations.

Inside, Fox How was comfortably spacious, and I remember what a palace it appeared to my childish
eyes, fresh from the tiny cabin of a 400-ton sailing-ship, and the rough life of a colony.
My grandmother, its mistress, was then sixty-one. Her beautiful hair was scarcely touched with
gray, her complexion was still delicately clear, and her soft brown eyes had the eager, sympathetic
look of her Cornish race. Charlotte Bronte, who saw her a few years earlier, while on a visit
to Miss Martineau, speaks of her as having been a "very pretty woman," and credits her and
her daughters with "the possession of qualities the most estimable and endearing." In another
letter, however, written to a less familiar correspondent, to whom Miss Bronte, as the literary
lady with a critical reputation to keep up, expresses herself in a different and more artificial
tone, she again describes my grandmother as good and charming, but doubts her claim to "power
and completeness of character." The phrase occurs in a letter describing a call at Fox How,
and its slight pomposity makes the contrast with the passage in which Matthew Arnold describes
the same visit the more amusing.

No one, indeed, would have applied the word "power" to my grandmother, unless he had known
her very well. The general impression was always one of gentle sweetness and soft dignity.
But the phrase, "completeness of character," happens to sum up very well the impression left
by her life both on kindred and friends. What Miss Bronte exactly meant by it it is difficult
to say. The tender tears soon dried their eyes: the conceit
is not erased from the soul.

The hardest to resist unfortunately, was the biggest loser with it: as Pepe, which and gave
no importance to the sacrifice, not delivered either to the quiet resignation and sad, whose
silence suffocates the pain without mitigation. His character varied somewhat, but he knew it,
but did not undergo a real transformation. The fibers of his heart were such that no bastard
could be stricken by misfortune, as they had not changed not cherished by fortune. That mocking
disbelief that always welcomed as could not clarify reasoning, increased and became more bitter,
and his grace to censure claimed acrimony, took his jokes plaintively said in jest, but the
propensity was funny always dominating on his lips, ready to ridicule their ideas and hobbies as
you pointed worthy of reproach. Setbacks not removed his enthusiasm for what he loved, or exacerbated
skepticism, but, convinced that the conditions of life had changed for complete it, acquired
a serenity that contrasts with the few years, gave his words a bitter and melancholy. Even the most
energetic satire sadly seemed to spring from her mouth.

After the first few weeks of this new existence, divided between the library Senate, where his
job was to give books to turn the race he wanted, and tasks of printing, where under the supervision
of Miller was becoming more and more useful, began experience some rest that he understood not
to be definitive, but he was flattered to see it reflected in the house. His life and journeyman
clerk gave him a handful of dollars, with which had to go shopping and just as often to the
pharmacy. Of law not spoke again to continue the race was a dream, and yet, having had to give
it was the sorrow of the whole family. Everyone felt it his way: Dona Manuela :--«¡ not say
but my son, how it works! "The father did not attempt to confess even loudly in front of people:
- "He will be in print." Leocadia, with undisguised disgust to what his brother was a worker, spoke
of the destination or use, and when he saw him again home, instinctively looked at his hands, afraid
to bring them some dirty signal your honorable work. I could not avoid: the vanity of Madrid who
was supposed to cover silk frills lack of linen, and prefers the ornament of the room to care
of the bedroom.

Pepe also participated in some way, that feeling which tends to hide the neighbor his own misery.
There was a person who did not had the courage to admit that working in Millán printing, and
that person was his girlfriend, Miss Car, as he called Leocadia. Pepe Paz had made clear to the
situation of his family that his father was an old modest tax official, that he had to abandon
the race due to lack of resources to follow, subject to employment granted almost by charity,
but not passed on: nothing told the press, support from Miller, the galleys, or day laborer tasks.
At first it was completely open by that same mischievous vanity Leocadia and lack of courage
after: Peace even knowing how he came to know, was afraid to say it: - "The man you love, you,
the rich girl, spoiled by fortune, going at night to earn a wage that comes on Saturdays as blacksmiths
and bricklayers. "imagined that he would lose: his eye was completely absurd for Paz, after knowing
this, continue to love him. Modern life offered him every step examples of daughters of wealthy
families who for loving whim had to marry a poor journalist, with a little lawyer, with anyone
even the poorest of the middle class but who was ever in these times a lady made to tread carpets
and sticking the waist with silk, hand deliver a journeyman? Pepe silent, without fear that she
knew the whole truth, but without the courage to say it with their own lips. Hearing her cry out
frequently between passionate and affectionate, "Pepe me, how I love you!" pulse rushing him
to disclose what he was hiding as a disgrace, but then, watching dressed with all the beauties
of the estate, removed his hands or examining them to neglect fearful, and her sister, to find them
printed on the spot dirty work.

IV

Don Luis Maria de Agreda, a senator elected, thanks to the wealth and influence he had on his
people, was one of the old progressive obstinate in his party to survive, from those they put on all
national sovereignty, and for whom there was no contemporary Spain but four men of great worth:
Mendizabal, for the seizure; Espartero, having Carlism expired; Olózaga, having spoken before
one of the traditional obstacles; and Prim, to follow in his footsteps.

The fortunes of Don Luis, to be respectable, but the rest was not how much you spent your father
to conspire against Sartorius and Narvaez, but what better inherited was a great love for the game
progressive, much antipathy to demagoguery, which struck him as something paid for by gold reaction,
and a moderate repulsion Carlist invincible. The work of Don Luis on boards and party committees,
articles, projects and opinions he wrote, would be incalculable, with endless times projected third
in the debates, but never had the courage to break to speak in public or to send two pages of
a newspaper. It was silly and it seemed because without actually having influence among his
people imagined that the consequence and loyalty should give more prominence it enjoyed, being
somewhat vain. As the word obey evil thought, fled the long dialogues and talks in circles,
limiting making yes / no signs of head, and at best, to say terse sentences, taking on his lips pretentious
tone judgments. Many regarded him as a man formal, but short-sighted, and I tried some serious
ass. Those went over close to the truth, because without an intelligence insider Don Luis, was
honored and final, if somewhat embittered, to imagine that it should shine and bubbling over
in his party.

What was his real claim to fame, for those who heard of it was education that he gave his daughter.
For the widowed thirty-two years and suggested that peace, when he was missing, was able to
live by themselves, without outside help, he knew his fortune managing and learn to know his
heart, not to leave it exposed to predation or errors tutorescas of their inexperience. Often said:
- "Know how much you have, hard drive, and has always considering what you're going to do, so
that neither the neighbor nor rob you fooled you. "

Peace was a season of three years in a school run by nuns, which was not please his father, but what
to do if there were no other race in Madrid home education? He learned to write with beautiful letter,
to speak French quite well and rudiments incomplete of many things: little sewing, embroidery
something and pray a lot. Without leaving the school knew As also happened in Madrid until
insides of families that no one cared; but, apparently, for the mothers there were no secrets,
so that output Sunday, Don Luis was wonderful to hear her daughter things that he did not hear
or the rippling of the Casino. This, and a vanity tantico that was awakening in the soul of
Peace, led to his father to remove the convent school, but even if wanted to do it with great
tact and restraint, finally had to be strong, because the holy women had tried to attract the
will of the child. "We led this goodness of Peace? "Aspires to conquer your precious voice
to the chapel? Prendáronse "perhaps the enthusiasm with which was the first to spend rich schoolgirl
savings buying, and the altar cloth of Christ, and the touches of the Virgin and the lace for
altar cloth? This was a holiday, Don Luis may not be get it, sent the carriage to a relative,
who returned for lunch alone referring to the good mother had said that Paz did not go mademoiselle.
Don Luis, thinking his daughter was ill, went immediately to see and dislike of the superior,
it was not bring the girl to the presence of the father, who spent a very bad time noting that
his peace, not be punished or ill, paving gladly stay there instead of going to spend the day
with him. Finally got her daughter to follow him, and tonight has not allowed back to school.
"There are no more mothers than me" - said Don Luis - and has since devoted care and education
of his daughter, without losing that his excessive fondness for public affairs. The letters of
the superior and the embassies of the chaplain, were in vain efforts to recover the sheep, but
not able to turn to the fold. Thereafter, Don Luis allowed to Peace, from time to time, spend something
in Sabanilla, cloaks and lace, but not let her return set foot in the convent. Meekness, which is
great virtue, the nuns prevented offend: never left his lips word of reproach, nothing they tried
to inflame the devotion rising, perhaps frustrated vocation of peace, but also forgot to remember
in days determined and solemn festivities at one end of Madrid was a house that is holy honored to
have had it for pupil and which was sent from time to time some alms to charity, a bouquet of
flowers for that altar whose steps are kneeling many times.

As peace was good, the treasure of love which he found in his house the school was soon forgotten,
and that passion went out like Mongil hand.

Freedom of action, the pride to send in his house as the owner and, especially, the skilled father's
love, drowned while the pious kidnapping may have occurred. It took a few weeks of this life,
and school, before some poetry imbued placid, was reduced in the imagination of Peace to a set
of memories cold and colorless. After a year Don Luis, choosing cautiously took her home where
he began it at the called good society, which touched his finery and the more worried than before
the clothes of the holy images: cabinet full of beauties and the soft bed were most pleasing
to the cold room and schoolgirl narrow bed, the flowers in her hair put his hand cut off by
the garden of the house, overthrew the bouquets of cloth of the altar, and to top of wickedness,
the first symphony of Mozart that he heard playing in his ears sounded more pleasant than the
litanies, salves and motets.

The number of impressions experienced Paz treading strange houses classrooms, there was no But
as nice as you felt going to reign in his own home.

A bit of live with his father, he learned of their business, explaining what his fortune,
helping it to manage interest, which came Paz persuaded that Don Luis was an honest man, and the
origin of what was decent and clean. Instead, he began to see that not all houses or all men as his
home and his father. Although incomplete and veiled through education and the hypocrisy, bad
light came to his eyes, causing a feeling like which suffer who made just to breathe clean air,
suddenly entered in an atmosphere flawed. The instinct was supplied to the mischief, malice wit:
failed to imagination unravel the causes of things, but saw the impact and was quite in order to be
entered the soul a healthy fear.

In his mind there were two simultaneous impulses: the awakening of the moral concerns of life and
distrust anyone to share his emotions.

With his father had all the sincerity possible, but the mysterious desires, those doubts naive
reserved for those women whispered to the one her heart, did not leave his lips. The gallant and phrases
compliments the instilled a restless anticipation, a vague terror that prevented display pleased:
was like a bird who was afraid to network. When a man flattered her ear with tenderness or
asked hopes, she involuntarily remembered so many unhappy poor married couples quarreling, households
seemed inns, where husband and wife accused indifference, diversion, if not disgust. Self-love
will not let her deny her beauty, but her instinct said danger in their wealth. Being loved
by another, it seemed easy: to know what love would be sincere, we judged impossible. Wanted
to hide the welfare of his house, and sometimes extravagant impulses felt jokes, easily hide
their lust for achievement, similar to those princes who travel undercover to thank rigorous inspire
sympathy and hear the language of openness. "The best costume - used to say - is the conceals more
than it costs. "

* * * * *

       One afternoon he saw Pepe entered the library of the Senate a gentleman
about fifty years tall, graying, his face shaven and looking entirely
too clean, addressing the main charge, said:

- I come to ask you
a favor.

Can you recommend one of these guys that you have here, at your service, to come a few mornings
at my house and help me tidy my library? I have new shelves and books must be transferred site. A wise
guy, eh?

- Hey you this - Pepe asked the boss, and addressing the gentleman, he added .-- Nobody by the
way: its formality and its illustration will serve you much. Almost a lawyer ...

He has made the request looked at Joe, and the authority that gave her years, said to him:

-
Let's see, young man. A boy, though not needed, never hurts a puñadillo
of dollars.

Have you heard what we discussed? Want you come to my house a few mornings?

- Yes sir, and I will do my best to accommodate.

- Well, I count on you When will we start? because I have it there all upset.

- When you want.

- Tomorrow. We hope in the morning to eleven.

When he was gone, Pepe thanked the librarian and asked who was that
man.

- It Don Luis Maria de Agreda, Senator, very good person.

Of those who never speaks, and progressive in the former, but very
rich.

Merely go to the polls, although always saying he will be speaking
... and never speaks.

Then he gave the address of the house of Don Luis and separated.

V

Turning to the appointment of Mr. de Agreda, at half past ten came next Pepe in the hotel that lived,
at the end of the Castellana. He crossed the garden, small and neat, climbed the stairs, full
of pots, which seemed to be guarding two magnificent bronze dogs, and entered the office, which
was part of the ground floor.

The wood floor was assembled, the magnificent tapestries, the furniture comfortable and luxurious;
all charged a lot of money. The board indicated order, great cleanliness and little work, as
had on it was well placed, but without noticing anything in the confusion, own work continuous.
Books were few, richly bound, and no signs of frequent handling: should not be those who had
to be sorted. In two side walls of a wall covered very dark flowered paper gold, there were
two portraits of women. In one, the costume and hair the fashion of 1850, but above all, paint,
licking and scavenging finesse, betrayed the hand of one of those artists who maintained the elegant
style reminiscent of Don Vicente López, without having acquired the force of the great painters
of our contemporaries. The lady was combing her hair done two great waves, very smooth, and
his features almost identical to the one portrayed in the canvas, but it was the beauty of the
first more Full and harmonious.

Despite this difference, it seemed then, that was easy to guess their relationship. They must
be mother and daughter, judging by the age and represented each the difference in the suits.
The portrait of the youngest was a double wonder, by the model and invoice. A piece of gauze
covered her impalpable shoulders, like a ruff old, had face is almost in shadow, eyes tight for
a livor dark, slightly tilted head forward and placed between the hair a pink pen, weightless,
loose, that seemed ready to move at the slightest breath.

The two balconies overlooked the garden office, through the slats of the blinds falls, saw
a small stove with expensive flowers plants, destined to die in vases lit a cabinet or chest
of a pretty woman. Completed the ornament the walls a few English prints, a portrait of Olózaga,
lithography, with a dedication autograph, and an honorary colonel of the National Militia 54, encased
in rich Trim and issued to the father of peace.

Luis came suddenly.

- I like punctuality.

       Come with me, and you will see if there is here for awhile.

They went into an adjoining room, entirely lined with books, where
three shelves new oak and occupied empty as many walls, showing their
huge wooden hollow clean, freshly carved and impregnated with the
smell of varnish.

In the center stood a large table, also full of books, plus books
everywhere: in soil, on top of stacked chairs and in the corners,
all jumbled like moving house where they went.

That day did not happen anymore but Don Luis gave some instructions to Pepe and he began to tidy
up the volume, then walking away with precise time for lunch before go to the Senate. When
leaving the house, quiet imagination, only asked a question: "What people will it?"

* * * * *

Pepe took three mornings to find volumes for coupling of different works, placing them then
my best, when the fourth day, while in the office leave of Don Luis, suddenly heard a door open
cautiously behind him and a woman's voice asked:

- I can go?

Miss the portrait was that of the pink pen. He wore a homemade costume too simple, white, short,
ornaments orphan whose sleeves discovered arms: it showed vented and free neck, wet hair to the
temples, and the complexion something on, as struck by the cool water. The figure stood out clearly
on the dark curtain, fantastic drawing resembling character. Sorpendida to see that Don Luis
was not alone, paused hold the door handle, wondering whether forward or back.

- Nuisance?

- No, daughter, enters.

Pepe, who was preparing to leave, the greeting, she answered her, and taking from the table a newspaper
and began to read. The scene was quick, almost silent, appearing to her and say goodbye it
occurred at a time. "How pretty!" - Pepe was said then to set in motion, either the little garden
gate of the house.

During successive mornings, Don Luis came in several times to see how the boy had their work, which
was rife recently, because the time that happened there was short. The cabinets were filling,
however, and Don Luis noted that at the same time keeping the books, Pepe took note of them in a
large cards to form an index. Liked it: the boy should be ready. Paz also went once to find
his father, and came to change Pepe trite phrases. One day spoke of the time, another of a recent
criminal attack Kings. The language of it was himself a well-educated young lady did not scorn
to converse with those whom fortune has not espropicia: the Pepe
was respectful, almost timid, step-made man so well put houses or
dealing with women's appearance so aristocratic.

Peace one day, already dressed to go out with her father, was waiting at the office, while
Pepe, with the door open communication, writing in the fourth of the ballots books for the index.
Paz read a newspaper, standing next to a balcony, Pepe, seizing the opportunity, looked at
her slyly, between feathered and plumed. The girl was beautiful. Her figure without artifice that
overly oppressed, had to change positions accused movements slender shapes of curves admirable.
Hair, almost black, collected and smoothed with extreme modest, benefit the white and gold matte complexion,
enlivened by fine and blue veins. Factions very funny and often without malice, formed a mobile
face and animated such as those seraphim Goya, inspired by the mischievous
face of the daughters of people.

The eyes, deep blue and clean, bringing to mind the serene evening sky of Granada, and the lips,
sometimes biting white glazed lightly with a involuntary movement, appeared on a flower of hue.
The mouth, red like fresh wound, and clear blue eyes, inspired by different ideas, with the
severity of his look, fantastic saves in defense of the sweetness of the lips.

Peace not feeling any noise in the room where Pepe was not even hit the books against tables,
or the slip of the pen on paper, he looked toward the boy and was surprised at her, he lowered his
head and continued writing, disgusted, fearful it seemed that the evil, and peace was diverted
a bit from where I read, but of course no gesture of anger. After
a while, Pepe placing a book on your site, again look at her without
her then I could see him. Instead he looked at his pleasure, but suddenly
came the voice of Don Luis who called his daughter, and when you release
it to the newspaper, and very soon Pepe he wanted his eyes, he was
surprised the second time Peace in the act of admiration, despite
which saw him go shortly after, showed no anger in gesture or words,
saying goodbye to him kindly.

A few days later almost the same thing
happened. Pepe, just to enjoy that gift of sight fortune offered him
several times looked Paz, and she noticed it, no sign of displeasure,
on the contrary, feeling some quiet satisfaction at this homage to
the silent yielding a man crippled by his position to flatter her
with hope for favors. She also once watched him furtively, warning
the boy not only had bad figure, but that was what was called a handsome
man. His face accused intelligence loyalty eyes, ie, met the main
features of male beauty. Then awoke in Peace little flirtation, did
not seem bad those looks, and thankful the cult that began to receive,
remained at the site where it was. Imagination in
my father led to a lifelong and mystical preoccupation with religion; it made Matthew Arnold
one of the great poets of the nineteenth century.

There is a sketch of my father made in 1847, which preserves the dreamy, sensitive look of
early youth, when he was the center of a band of remarkable friends--Clough, Stanley, F.T.
Palgrave, Alfred Domett (Browning's Waring), and others. It is the face--nobly and delicately
cut--of one to whom the successes of the practical, competitive life could never be of the
same importance as those events which take place in thought, and for certain minds are the
only real events. "For ages and ages the world has been constantly slipping ever more and more
out of the Celt's grasp," wrote Matthew Arnold. But all the while the Celt has great compensations.
To him belongs another world than the visible; the world of phantasmagoria, of emotion, the
world of passionate beginnings, rather than of things achieved. After the romantic and defiant
days of his youth, my father, still pursuing the same natural tendency, found all that he needed
in Catholicism, and specially, I think, in that endless poetry and mystery of the Mass which
keeps Catholicism alive.

Matthew Arnold was very different in outward aspect. The face, strong and rugged, the large
mouth, the broad lined brow, and vigorous coal-black hair, bore no resemblance, except for
that fugitive yet vigorous something which we call "family likeness," to either his father
or mother--still less to the brother so near to him in age. But the Celtic trace is there,
though derived, I have sometimes thought, rather from an Irish than a Cornish source. Doctor
Arnold's mother, Martha Delafield, according to a genealogy I see no reason to doubt, was partly
of Irish blood; one finds, at any rate, Fitzgeralds and Dillons among the names of her forebears.
And I have seen in Ireland faces belonging to the "black Celt" type--faces full of power and
humor, and softness, visibly molded out of the good common earth by the nimble spirit within,
which have reminded me of my uncle. Nothing, indeed, at first sight could have been less romantic
or dreamy than his outer aspect. "Ineffectualness" was not to be thought of in connection with
him. He stood four-square--a courteous, competent man of affairs, an admirable inspector of
schools, a delightful companion, a guest whom everybody wanted and no one could bind for long;
one of the sanest, most independent, most cheerful and lovable of mortals. Yet his poems show
what was the real inner life and genius of the man; how rich in that very "emotion," "love
of beauty and charm," "rebellion against fact," "spirituality," "melancholy" which he himself
catalogued as the cradle gifts of the Celt. Crossed, indeed, always, with the Rugby "earnestness,"
with that in him which came to him from his father.

It is curious to watch the growing perception of "Matt's" powers among the circle of his nearest
kin, as it is reflected in these family letters to the emigrant brother, which reached him
across the seas from 1847 to 1856, and now lie under my hand. The Poems by A. came out, as
all lovers of English poetry know, in 1849. My grandmother writes to my father in March of
that year, after protesting that she has not much news to give him:

    But the little volume of Poems!--that is indeed a subject of new and
    very great interest. By degrees we hear more of public opinion
    concerning them, and I am very much mistaken if their power both in
    thought and execution is not more and more felt and acknowledged. I
    had a letter from dear Miss Fenwick to-day, whose first impressions
    were that they were by you, for it seems she had heard of the
    volume as much admired, and as by one of the family, and she had
    hardly thought it could be by one so moving in the busy haunts of
    men as dear Matt.... Matt himself says: "I have learned a good
    deal as to what is practicable from the objections of people,
    even when I thought them not reasonable, and in some degree they
    may determine my course as to publishing; e.g., I had thoughts of
    publishing another volume of short poems next spring, and a tragedy
    I have long had in my head, the spring after: at present I shall
    leave the short poems to take their chance, only writing them
    when I cannot help it, and try to get on with my Tragedy
    ('Merope'), which however will not be a very quick affair. But as
    that must be in a regular and usual form, it may perhaps, if it
    succeeds, enable me to use meters in short poems which seem proper to
    myself; whether they suit the habits of readers at first sight or
    not. But all this is rather vague at present.... I think I am
    getting quite indifferent about the book. I have given away the
    only copy I had, and now never look at them. The most enthusiastic
    people about them are young men of course; but I have heard of one
    or two people who found pleasure in 'Resignation,' and poems of
    that stamp, which is what I like." "So you have a girlfriend?

- Well, what do you, Miss, I am to stick?

Understood: the largest pa mi chiquiya and the other Pá Mr. Pepe.

- Bye, and what we talked about earlier, not a word ... chitito.

- Current: God is with you, miss, and thanks.

She came into the hotel and disappeared behind the walls of a nearby corrals.

Paz knew more than I expected to find out.

The origin of civilizations of the conduct Pepe of her brother greatly upset, but what he did
in his thinking more bite, was knowing Pepe was working as a correction in print. The owner of
his will was something less than a clerk.

       For similar cause, Leocadia, the girl of humble, without hope of fortune,
was evasive with her boyfriend, Peace, however, then felt sympathy
towards her lover firm and calm, he had some respect.

As your different position tended to separate them, more she clung to her love.

* * * * *

An event not know Pateta and Pepe also ignored for some time, told by one Paz, could have added
to the chapter of faults made against Tirso: Leocadia breaking with Millan.

Spurned by her, he set eyes on another. There among the typesetters of printing a married two years
ago with a girl named Engracia, seamstress, very pretty, demure, sweet condition and worthy
of better treatment than he gave her husband. It was such a player, lazy, quarrelsome, but above
all, drunk, and with such bad wine, which his unfortunate companion could counting cups tiptoe
for her slaps and shoves were welcomed. Skimping food, pawning clothes, cheating in the pub and
again on Saturday at home with the wages diminished by the defect, were his main achievements,
in addition to looking at the poor girl with greater detachment. A married her stepmother Engracia,
lights up, which, as a public voice in the neighborhood, I had a cat, with purpose to shake
off, and she admitted the first compliments of typesetter to get out of power so bad Pecora. While
the waiter confided, and knew lights up keep you waiting, in which the wedding would provide
rooms, concealed his tricks, but verified marriage, free step-mother, Engracia subject and flicked
the boyfriend, he began to give bad girl's life. Fortunately, their brutality did not last long.
One night, closing the tavern had been drunk, the store owner threw a torniscones, and he he lay
on the sidewalk, without coat or hat. When he got home at dawn, coughing more than an asthmatic,
and died fifteen days in the hospital, leaving a child Engracia few months. His companions,
as all of this noble profession, that such cases are rare, had formed a society as a relief to
aid with the hard trance life and the mother agreed to give a widow a sum of money. Miller put
some of their Engracia pocket and sent word to go and pick up the total. Shortly thereafter,
with spirit to help her indirectly, and knowing what had been single his office, gave some clothing
fix, and now a trip of it to your home, visit it tomorrow to press, After a few weeks, as
this coincided with the marked deviation of Leocadia, began to notice Engracia, flirting between
rough and infatuation with a delicacy to it was not used. The beauty of the widow, her youth
homelessness and made Millán else. The woman said then every day more loving, middle half grateful
lover Instinctively he appreciated their care, perhaps looking at the contrast it makes with the
surly condition of your old girlfriend, and stocks were joined, forming a beautiful marriage of
misery and comfort blessed by love. What most captivated the hearts of Engracia was the gentleness
with which he treated his boy Millán.

Perhaps the tender affection of the mother was not Spontaneous Award fondling the child received.

All
this had no knowledge Pepe until much later, and neither did Pateta
when he spoke to Peace: so that it completely ignored.

XVIII

Doña Manuela was meanwhile meekly submitting to the influence of Tirso: character weak tilt accepted
it would give him, as would have tolerated any other. No until then said what his thinking was
to accept or reject, and was indifferent in religion to be around her, that to be fans in either
direction fuéralo she. Tirso was right before another to guide its docility, and the good woman
did not offer resistance because there was no fighting spirit or hint of contradiction between the beliefs
own advice and listened: the priest son did not have another plant to uproot plant in this wilderness;
enough to leave the seed fall Dona Manuela began to manifest devoted to the foreign religion
that conforms to preconceived formulas and prayers as stereotyped for generations to repeat them
unconsciously. The strange poetry of religion, composed of unintelligible mysteries, hopes and threats
tremendous ill-defined, seduced with extraordinary charm and instinctively reject the abstractions,
nor Tirso could explain it, willingly accepted what hurts the imagination. Not understand
no human perfection in the bosom of God, or wine that engenders virgins, or the Divorce of flesh
and spirit, or the mystic nuptials of the soul and the Lord, but instead the epic of passion,
told day by day, detail by detail, as seen up close, impressed. The tortures of the early martyrs,
the gentleness of the virgins, magic of miracles, it exerted influence similar to that which occurs
in children's heads the relationship of fairy tales, and admiration for all of this served to increase
generated devotions, who met more easily by decoding was something that meant. The mass, which initially
tried tired and long ceremony was soon to her representation what he suffered the son of God who
for our sins was given, and persists in body and blood as the price of human redemption, the
litany, before annoying strings of sentences I did not understand, become a matter of prayer
pleasing to his lips, sweet to the ears of those to whom they were addressed, the rosary, which he
considered useless string of repetitions, eventually by Augustus words seem greeting, a reminder
of the increased penalties and those who suffered Mother of the Saviour of the world. The interpretation
of certain symbols and surprise explained do not understand things as before, poured in his
soul a quiet satisfaction, a free enjoyment of selfishness, but that came to produce some excitement,
making experience self-indulgence that the weak brains, to discover something new to them, think they
have found what is truly extraordinary. The lives of the saints, its martyrs and miracles, that
Tirso used to read in the Christian Year, translated from P. Croisset, were for your imagination
and great novels of interest, and the relationship of those glorious pains and glorifying impregnated
seemed to him enchanting poetry. If the existence of which ran to martyrdom was something ridiculous
or absurd, she did not notice, willing and prepared by Tirso to perceive only the fragrance
of the virtues that those stories exhaled. Blessed Bernard of Corleone, who drank dishwater;
Santa Senorina, which imposed silence the frogs, James the Less, who kneel force raised in these
streets as camels, San Toribio Mogrobejo, swimming in alligators as he bathes with friends;
Santa Catalina de Sena, which once passed since the beginning of Lent to Ascension without more
food than the communion of Montepoliciano Santa Inés, which jumped seeing images of Christ in
the cradle of joy, and the Blessed Mary Anne of Jesus, who was sleeping naked on bundles of
thorns and brambles, were figures haloed disappearing to other admirable greatness virgin with breasts
cut about, girls who challenged the Roman magistrates, children cruelly persecuted and men offering
to God the spirit, gave the matter the pain, as loved one who yields to her lover.

Dona Manuela's piety was manifested by various symptoms. Began assiduously the church and cared
little to hide her husband and her youngest son in the transformation
it is operated.

One night, Peter came home earlier than usual, entered, cautiously opened with his key, not to wake
the repose and, hearing rumors of muffled voices, stopped to listen in the hallway he found
the dining room door ajar, and looked. Doña Manuela and Leocadia, completed and the rosary,
they were doing an act of atonement for faults of his own and others.

Tirso said sacrificial sentences and they answered to.

- For my sins, for my parents, brothers and friends, by the world,
forgiveness, Sir, - and they repeated:

- Sorry, sir.

- For the blasphemy,
desecration of holy days, sorry, Lord ...

- Sorry, sir.

- By disobedience
to the Holy Church, for violation of fasting.

- Sorry, sir.

- For
the crimes of the spouses, parents' negligence, for the faults of
the children.

- Sorry, sir.

- For the attacks on the Roman Pontiff.

-
Sorry, sir.

- For the persecutions raised against the bishops, priests,
religious and consecrated virgins.

- Sorry, sir.

- For the insult
to your images, the desecration of temples, the scorn of the Sacraments
and outrages the August Tabernacle.

- Sorry, sir.

- For press crimes
wicked and blasphemous, for the horrific machinations of dark sects.

-
Sorry, sir.

- Just for tonight - said Tirso rising .-- Tomorrow,
the rosary and paraphrase of a commandment.

- We have five, right?
- Asked Leocadia.

- Yes, am playing the sixth.

Entráronse then them, each in his room and stayed Tirso reading his
breviary.

Pepe waited to including women and then returned to the room, determined
to have a explanation for his brother.

The light, almost dying, its light seemed to deny that scene: Tirso,
hoping so Suddenly the attack, had a moment of weakness and rising
seat, wanted to shelter in his room: Pepe, extending her hand to him,
beckoned him to wait.

The low clearly reflected in the windows of the buffet and tables,
let's shadow angles of the room, behind the red curtains of the cabinet
door parents slept and down the hall, was the fourth of Leocadia:
around two brothers was all shadow and silence.

On the oilcloth that covered the table was the string of Tirso and
a booklet devotional reading, with tops curled and filthy.

- Speak
low - he began Pepe.

And the dialogue continued in dim statements, claiming, however, faces
all energy that lacked the expression of words.

He then continued:

- Entering've heard, without love, that you were praying, in that I do not go, but mom, on all more
worth the dejases bed on time.

What I beg is that tomorrow Leocadia commandment explain to anyone,
let alone the sixth.

- Why?

- Why not.

- That's not right.

- What
to say what you have to resist to understand?

I only ask that you refrain from explaining Leocadia, as you are
accustomed to do, ideas and concepts that should not be talking to
girls.

- Come and find a pretext to counteract the work of holy perfection
I have undertaken.

- This one did not need holiness: what more perfect
that the tranquility and peace?

- Then confess?

...

- Do not admit anything, I make a warning. A certain acts of devotion, silly but harmless I will
not resist. Since you force me to, I'll tell you: I think nonsense, so I'm not fit, is that
signs and repeat the girl that clarity and detachment with which
some of Books open your eyes to who's got closed, soiling the innocence
and awakening lame ideas on who never had one.

- How much blindness!

For the household goods carefully take away the dust every day: the soul Let that breeds may.

-
Do not give me Blessed melancholic phrases, or make me jokes that only callus consideration
to you. Imitate my motives scenes caution and not give us all feel.

- Do not tease me! Do you know my purpose?

- Untrue. Do not be provoked, but do not lose sight. I followed your step by step handling, and
nothing I have said, has begun to suck the brains mom, and I have
been silent, now you declare frankly that I will not have, for worshiping
God and his saints forget care my father, and not let you do those
disgusting descriptions Leo vice firing who lives impurity-free.

Talk to her in the sky all you want, but you persist to prepare his
mind to fight sins do not know, because it is not prudent to apply
remedies where there is disease, and, above all, for goodness' sake
in the world, do not disturb the peace of the house, do not go to
do here, in miniature, the role of those priests who go astray moving
war in the countryside.

- What they do is pursuing the enemies of
religion!

- Sympathetic to them, but I do not discuss it now accommodates.

Your Mom and Leo sing litanies, fervorines, joys, salves, the whole repertoire of heavenly music;
pray to mechanically repeat what I teach: only I beg you not devotion
under robe and affection for my father, and not lectured the girl
on things ignored.

- Did not flee the danger?

- How did you learn
to avoid it, if you have your eyes to the allure of the forbidden
by attraction, with the encouragement of curiosity guide and the sting
of age accomplice?

Kid yourself, Tirso, this is not time to try to convince each other,
but not be you should raise the malice who, like her, feels numb,
that his pulse did not Probably nobody suffocates.

- Fighting against
the flesh is a virtue.

- And not have to fight, nothing better than
virtue itself.

 Here, first
of all, is an amusing reference, dated 1849, to Keble, then the idol of every well-disposed
Anglican household:

    I dined last night with a Mr. Grove,[1] a celebrated man of science:
    his wife is pretty and agreeable, but not on a first interview. The
    husband and I agree wonderfully on some points. He is a bad sleeper,
    and hardly ever free from headache; he equally dislikes and
    disapproves of modern existence and the state of excitement in
    which everybody lives: and he sighs after a paternal despotism
    and the calm existence of a Russian or Asiatic. He showed me a
    picture of Faraday, which is wonderfully fine: I am almost inclined
    to get it: it has a curious likeness to Keble, only with a calm,
    earnest look unlike the latter's Flibbertigibbet, fanatical,
    twinkling expression.

[Footnote 1: Afterward Sir William Grove, F.R.S., author of the famous essay on "The Correlation
of Physical Force."]

Did ever anybody apply such adjectives to John Keble before! Yet if any one will look carefully
at the engraving of Keble so often seen in quiet parsonages, they will understand, I think,
exactly what Matthew Arnold meant.

In 1850 great changes came upon the Arnold family. The "Doctor's" elder three children--Jane,
Matthew, and my father--married in that year, and a host of new interests sprang up for every
member of the Fox How circle. I find in a letter to my father from Arthur Stanley, his father's
biographer, and his own Oxford tutor, the following reference to "Matt's" marriage, and to
the second series of Poems--containing "Sohrab and Rustum"--which were published in 1854. "You
will have heard," writes Stanley, "of the great success of Matt's poems. He is in good heart
about them. He is also--I must say so, though perhaps I have no right to say so--greatly improved
by his marriage--retaining all the genius and nobleness of mind which you remember, with all
the lesser faults pruned and softened down." Matt himself wrote to give news of his wedding,
to describe the bride--Judge Wightman's daughter, the dear and gracious little lady whom we
grandchildren knew and loved as "Aunt Fanny Lucy"--and to wish my father joy of his own. And
then there is nothing among the waifs and strays that have come to me worth printing, till
1855, when my uncle writes to New Zealand:

    I hope you have got my book by this time. What you will like best, I
    think, will be the "Scholar Gipsy." I am sure that old Cumner and
    Oxford country will stir a chord in you. For the preface I doubt if
    you will care, not having much before your eyes the sins and
    offenses at which it is directed: the first being that we have
    numbers of young gentlemen with really wonderful powers of
    perception and expression, but to whom there is wholly wanting
    a "bedeutendes Individuum"--so that their productions are most
    unedifying and unsatisfactory. But this is a long story.

  As to Church matters. I think people in general concern themselves less
  with them than they did when you left England. Certainly religion is
  not, to all appearance at least, losing ground here: but since the great
  people of Newman's party went over, the disputes among the comparatively
  unimportant remains of them do not excite much interest. I am going to
  hear Manning at the Spanish Chapel next Sunday. Newman gives himself up
  almost entirely to organizing and educating the Roman Catholics, and is
  gone off greatly, they say, as a preacher.

  God bless you, my dearest Tom: I cannot tell you the almost painful
  longing I sometimes have to see you once more.

The following year the brothers met again; and there followed, almost immediately, my uncle's
election to the Poetry Professorship at Oxford. He writes, in answer to my father's congratulations:

  HAMPTON, May 16, 1857.

    MY DEAR TOM,--My thoughts have often turned to you during my canvass
    for the Professorship--and they have turned to you more than ever
    during the last few days which I have been spending at Oxford. You
    alone of my brothers are associated with that life at Oxford, the
    freest and most delightful part, perhaps, of my life, when with
    you and Clough and Walrond I shook off all the bonds and
    formalities of the place, and enjoyed the spring of life and that
    unforgotten Oxfordshire and Berkshire country. Do you remember a
    poem of mine called "The Scholar Gipsy"? It was meant to fix the
    remembrance of those delightful wanderings of ours in the Cumner
    hills before they were quite effaced--and as such Clough and
    Walrond accepted it, and it has had much success at Oxford, I am
    told, as was perhaps likely from its couleur locale. I am hardly
    ever at Oxford now, but the sentiment of the place is overpowering
    to me when I have leisure to feel it, and can shake off the
    interruptions which it is not so easy to shake off now as it was
    when we were young. But on Tuesday afternoon I smuggled myself away,
    and got up into one of our old coombs among the Cumner hills, and
    into a field waving deep with cowslips and grasses, and gathered
    such a bunch as you and I used to gather in the cowslip field on
    Lutterworth road long years ago.

    You dear old boy, I love your congratulations although I see and
    hear so little of you, and, alas! can see and hear but so little
    of you. I was supported by people of all opinions, the great bond
    of union being, I believe, the affectionate interest felt in papa's
    memory. I think it probable that I shall lecture in English: there
    is no direction whatever in the Statute as to the language in which
    the lectures shall be: and the Latin has so died out, even among
    scholars, that it seems idle to entomb a lecture which, in English,
    might be stimulating and interesting.

On the same occasion, writing to his mother, the new Professor gives an amusing account of
the election day, when my uncle and aunt came up to town from Hampton, where they were living,
in order to get telegraphic news of the polling from friends at Oxford. "Christ Church"--i.e.,
the High Church party in Oxford--had put up an opposition candidate, and the excitement was
great. My uncle was by this time the father of three small boys, Tom, Trevenen--alias Budge--and
Richard--"Diddy."

    We went first to the telegraph station at Charing Cross. Then, about
    4, we got a message from Walrond--"nothing certain is known, but
    it is rumored that you are ahead." Then we went to get some toys
    for the children in the Lowther Arcade, and could scarcely have
    found a more genuine distraction than in selecting wagons for Tom
    and Trev, with horses of precisely the same color, not one of which
    should have a hair more in his tail than the other--and a musical
    cart for Diddy. A little after five we went back to the telegraph
    office, and got the following message--"Nothing declared, but you
    are said to be quite safe. Go to Eaton Place." ["Eaton Place" was
    then the house of Judge Wightman, Mrs. Matthew Arnold's father.]
    To Eaton Place we went, and then a little after 6 o'clock we were
    joined by the Judge in the highest state of joyful excitement with
    the news of my majority of 85, which had been telegraphed to him
    from Oxford after he had started and had been given to him at
    Paddington Station.... The income is L130 a year or thereabouts:
    the duties consist as far as I can learn in assisting to look over
    the prize compositions, in delivering a Latin oration in praise of
    founders at every alternate commemoration, and in preparing and
    giving three Latin lectures on ancient poetry in the course of the
    year. These lectures I hope to give in English.

The italics are mine. The intention expressed here and in the letter to my father was, as is
well known, carried out, and Matthew Arnold's Lectures at Oxford, together with the other poetic
and critical work produced by him during the years of his professorship, became so great a
force in the development of English criticism and English taste, that the lifelike detail of
this letter acquires a kind of historical value. As a child of fourteen I first made acquaintance
with Oxford while my uncle was still Professor. I remember well some of his lectures, the crowded
lecture-hall, the manner and personality of the speaker, and my own shy pride in him--from
a great distance. For I was a self-conscious, bookish child, and my days of real friendship
with him were still far ahead. But during the years that followed, the ten years that he held
his professorship, what a spell he wielded over Oxford, and literary England in general! Looking
back, one sees how the first series of Essays in Criticism, the Lectures on Celtic Literature,
or On Translating Homer, Culture, and Anarchy and the rest, were all the time working on English
taste and feeling, whether through sympathy or antagonism; so that after those ten years, 1857-1867,
the intellectual life of the country had absorbed, for good and all, an influence, and a stimulus,
which had set it moving on new paths to new ends. With these thoughts in mind, supplying a
comment on the letter which few people could have foreseen in 1857, let me quote a few more
sentences:

    Keble voted for me after all. He told the Coleridges he was so much
    pleased with my letter (to the electors) that he could not refrain.
    ... I had support from all sides. Archdeacon Denison voted for me,
    also Sir John Yarde Buller, and Henley, of the high Tory party. It
    was an immense victory--some 200 more voted than have ever, it is
    said, voted in a Professorship election before. It is a great
    lesson to Christ Church, which was rather disposed to imagine it
    could carry everything by its great numbers.

    Good-by, my dearest mother.... I have just been up to see the three
    dear    little brown heads on their pillows, all asleep.... My
    affectionate thanks to Mrs. Wordsworth and Mrs. Fletcher for
    their kind interest in my success.

It is pleasant to think of Wordsworth's widow, in her "old age serene and bright," and of the
poet's old friend, Mrs. Fletcher, watching and rejoicing in the first triumphs of the younger
singer.

So the ten years of approach and attack--in the intellectual sense--came to an end, and the
ten central years of mastery and success began. Toward the end of that time, as a girl of sixteen,
I became a resident in Oxford. Up to then Ruskin--the Stones of Venice and certain chapters
in Modern Painters--had been my chief intellectual passion in a childhood and first youth that
cut but a very poor figure, as I look back upon them, beside the "wonderful children" of this
generation! But it must have been about 1868 that I first read Essays in Criticism. It is not
too much to say that the book set for me the currents of life; its effect heightened, no doubt,
by the sense of kinship. Above all it determined in me, as in many others, an enduring love
of France and of French literature, which played the part of schoolmaster to a crude youth.
I owe this to my uncle, and it was a priceless boon. If he had only lived a little longer--if
he had not died so soon after I had really begun to know him--how many debts to him would have
been confessed, how many things said, which, after all, were never said!

CHAPTER IV

OTHER CHILDREN OF FOX HOW

I have now to sketch some other figures in the Fox How circle, together with a few of the intimate
friends who mingled with it frequently, and very soon became names of power to the Tasmanian
child also.

Let me take first Doctor Arnold's third son, "Uncle Willy"--my father's junior by some four
years. William Delafield Arnold is secure of long remembrance, one would fain think, if only
as the subject of Matthew Arnold's two memorial poems--"A Southern Night" and "Stanzas from
Carnac." But in truth he had many and strong claims of his own. His youth was marked by that
"restlessness," which is so often spoken of in the family letters as a family quality and failing.
My father's "restlessness" made him throw up a secure niche in English life, for the New Zealand
adventure. The same temperament in Mary Twining, the young widow of twenty-two, took her to
London, away from the quiet of the Ambleside valley, and made her an ardent follower of Maurice,
Kingsley, and Carlyle. And in Willy, the third son, it showed itself first in a revolt against
Oxford, while he was still at Christ Church, leading to his going out to India and joining
the Indian Army, at the age of twenty, only to find the life of an Indian subaltern all but
intolerable, and to plunge for a time at least into fresh schemes of change.

Among the early photographs at Fox How there is a particularly fine daguerreotype of a young
officer in uniform, almost a boy, slim and well proportioned, with piled curly hair, and blue
eyes, which in the late 'fifties I knew as "Uncle Willy"; and there were other photographs
on glass of the same young man, where this handsome face appeared again, grown older--much
older--the boyish look replaced by an aspect of rather grave dignity. In the later pictures
he was grouped with children, whom I knew as my Indian cousins. But him, in the flesh, I had
never seen. He was dead. His wife was dead. On the landing bookcase of Fox How there was, however,
a book in two blue volumes, which I soon realized as a "novel," called Oakfield, which had
been written by the handsome young soldier in the daguerreotype. I tried to read it, but found
it was about things and persons in which I could then take no interest. But its author remained
to me a mysteriously attractive figure; and when the time came for me to read my Uncle Matthew's
poems, "A Southern Night," describing the death at Gibraltar of this soldier uncle, became
a great favorite with me. I could see it all as Matthew Arnold described it--the steamer approaching
Gibraltar, the landing, and the pale invalid with the signs on him of that strange thing called
"death," which to a child that "feels its life in every limb" has no real meaning, though the
talk of it may lead vaguely to tears, as that poem often did with me.

Later on, of course, I read Oakfield, and learned to take a more informed pride in the writer
of it. But it was not until a number of letters written from India by William Arnold to my
father in New Zealand between 1848 and 1855, with a few later ones, came into my possession,
at my father's death, that I really seemed to know this dear vanished kinsman, though his orphaned
children had always been my friends.

The letters of 1848 and 1849 read like notes for Oakfield. They were written in bitterness
of soul by a very young man, with high hopes and ideals, fresh from the surroundings of Oxford
and Rugby, from the training of the Schoolhouse and Fox How, and plunged suddenly into a society
of boys--the subalterns of the Bengal Native Infantry--living for the most part in idleness,
often a vicious idleness, without any restraining public opinion, and practically unshepherded,
amid the temptations of the Indian climate and life. They show that the novel is, indeed, as
was always supposed, largely autobiographical, and the references in them to the struggle with
the Indian climate point sadly forward to the writer's own fate, ten years later, when, like
the hero of his novel, Edward Oakfield, he fell a victim to Indian heat and Indian work. The
novel was published in 1853, while its author was at home on a long sick leave, and is still
remembered for the anger and scandal it provoked in India, and the reforms to which, no doubt,
after the Mutiny, it was one of the contributing impulses. It is, indeed, full of interest
for any student of the development of Anglo-Indian life and society; even when one remembers
how, soon after it was published, the great storm of the Mutiny came rushing over the society
it describes, changing and uprooting everywhere. As fiction, it suffers from the Rugby "earnestness"
which overmasters in it any purely artistic impulse, while infusing a certain fire and unity
of its own. But various incidents in the story--the quarrel at the mess-table, the horse-whipping,
the court martial, the death of Vernon, and the meeting between Oakfield and Stafford, the
villain of the piece, after Chilianwallah--are told with force, and might have led on, had
the writer lived, to something more detached and mature in the way of novel-writing.

But there were few years left to him, "poor gallant boy!"--to quote the phrase of his poet
brother; and within them he was to find his happiness and his opportunity in love and in public
service, not in literature.

Nothing could be more pathetic than the isolation and revolt of the early letters. The boy
Ensign is desperately homesick, pining for Fox How, for his mother and sisters, for the Oxford
he had so easily renounced, for the brothers parted from him by such leagues of land and sea.

    The fact that one learns first in India [he says, bitterly] is the
    profound ignorance which exists in England about it. You know how one
    hears it spoken of always as a magnificent field for exertion, and
    this is true enough in one way, for if a man does emerge at all, he
    emerges the more by contrast--he is a triton among minnows. But I
    think the responsibility of those who keep sending out here young
    fellows of sixteen and seventeen fresh from a private school or
    Addiscombe is quite awful. The stream is so strong, the society is
    so utterly worldly and mercenary in its best phase, so utterly and
    inconceivably low and profligate in its worst, that it is not
    strange that at so early an age, eight out of ten sink beneath it.
    ... One soon observes here how seldom one meets a happy man.

    I came out here with three great advantages [he adds]. First, being
    twenty instead of seventeen; secondly not having been at Addiscombe;
    third, having been at Rugby and Christ Church. 

Pepe, hearing this, stood in the middle of the sidewalk, looking at
his friend with the utmost curiosity.

- Yes, your lord brother.

Leocadia not shown me like before, not so expressive, and so loving ... has varied greatly, and
the move coincides with the arrival of Tirso, rather, with your mother gone to church. In a word,
fear and influenced Dona Manuela to read, try to get your sister does not want me ... We'll be
nasty ... What I know why!

- That to him what does he care? Why you be so disagreeable?

- You look stupid! Did not you heard? Do not you know I like you and your father? Did not you see
the look on his face the day of the discussion highlights the origin of the stones to portraits
the Pope? I seem to be healing, and its vehemence, has enough.

At least believe that the girl is in love with Pedro Botero of boilers.

-
Do you suppose that Leo has spoken against?

- I suspect not: I'm
sure, as if he had heard.

- And you found?

...

- A book you put in a bad mood: other me has made me understand what is happening. You know your
sister is always asking me books to read, and I took her novels a woman we will not give the legislative
library. Well, last Sunday, returning the penultimate volume of Notre Dame and one of Ivanhoe,
he said: - "Do not bring more Miller, now I can not distract me, I have a lot of work. "

- It is not true: two weeks ago that do not give work.

- So I realized
what was happening.

Soon, your father, not knowing that refused Leocadia to me to take what remained of Our Lady,
told me in front of your sister not I had a job, and she left the room at once. When we said
goodbye in the hallway The question that was due that and was evasive. In this came out of
his room Tirso and, as one is aware of what you hear try, I said :--«¿ to insist? Can not you
see that not read indecency? "

- What you say?

- For your brother and your home! Shut up and leave, but, I confess, I wanted to put him a
volume by the snout.

The least has figured the man who took the girl books wrong gender!

-
What an ass!

- Not the best.

It was the first time Leo and I parted well, slightly less than bothered, and I could not wait to
return on Monday. Do you remember that afternoon was the pretext test and was talking to her?

-
Go on: what did he say?

- Man, there are things that can not be explained point by point. You understand the difference
you there to be a loving woman, who exudes the satisfaction of being loved, to be cold, aloof,
and who does not care less about the man next to him.

- As one of two things: either you're wrong, and there is nothing
that suspicion, or is Tirso guilt, and in this case, no doubt in my
house is going to be more civil war in the North.

- Much I fear,
and about what we were talking, I think Leo is no longer for me.

-
Come with care.

Do you have any trouble, some wheeling and dealing that she has known for angry?

- No: word of honor.

- Well, since I put the record straight.

- I warn you one thing. I did not think the matter further formalize ... for lack of rooms; but since
things have been filmed, stating that your father and you can consider
me, if you like, and the house, you know? - and tended to Pepe's hand,
he warmly shook .-- Since you know, as is customary titles: I beg
the hand ...

- I promise we will leave doubts.

- What are you doing?

-
Soon I will be able, or clearing the situation.

In the first conversation you have with Tirso I remove the mask.

We'll see who has the upper hand!

Next step quickened, spreading to reach street near the keypad, where fired, leaving some hopeful
Millán offered intervention. Pepe entered its house on tiptoe, slowly opened, not to awaken
the sleepers, lit the candle Leocadia left to prevent a wing of the hall, he entered his room
and lay down, thinking about events and ideas that interested him, on suspicion that he felt
for his brother in the affection that had his parents and feared complications. Then, serenely mind,
he remembered the worsening peace and imagined note in his love. What would be the cause? Why
the girl raised in the present, far from convinced that this was crazy gave his promises more
strength and greater expression of sympathy from his eyes?

XVI

Tirso seeing the mother tended to his exhortations, not only
insisted on them, but tried to conquer the minds of Leocadia, sharpen
it necessary to be so cunning, as the difference in character between
Dona Manuela and her daughter asked for different tactics.

The first ceded by kindness and gentleness: it was habit bend to the will of others. As a young
man due to her husband erected after chief Pepe family by force of circumstances, got used to
looking at him as such, and was home giblets those of her daughter, showing all be born to
obey. Leocadia conditions were different: he had headstrong genius, but without lacking respect,
responding to their parents with integrity; in their whims poor girl, had always a certain obstinacy,
if he persisted in reform a suit, did not stop to turn the pieces of fabric, to achieve what
he wanted; liking styling, could not find peace until her hands got to learn how to make him,
and even in these small details, the tenacity of its resolutions, betrayed a very firm deploying
energy difficult to master. Tirso also noted that, in spite of its humble situation, the girl was
rather vain and was paid him, charging different Still, the eagerness to please, and as a latent desire,
but self-indulgent, to imitate clothing and customs of girls more favored by fortune. Never consented
to, for example, to make his brother blouses to work in print, and was constantly at the next
corner store with tissue in the head, Pepe wanted to see the best dress possible, and in their
costumes own, still struggling with lack of money for frills and frippery, always tried to
imitate elegant cuts. By not having them gold, had no outstanding ears and fingers without rings.
It was not demanding too expensive to ask what the efforts of their parents, but only accepted
poverty as an accident of his life, not as a condition of their origin. Willingly admitted Miller's
love, while this year with Pepe's career, but seeing her boyfriend had to leave the books and engage
in a trade, was for her very great disappointment. To continue his brother in college, perhaps soon
had sought to break relations with the printer, but seeing Pepe forced to do the same soon
after, realized Leocadia why could not reject Millán, and continued to accept his love, without
correspondence that actually paid it deserved the name of love. Perhaps for lack of background,
no Tirso was in a position to appreciate all this, but enough to convince reached that neither
Leocadia was truly in love, and cast off by the shameless Miller greed language called a proportion,
which allowed him to imagine that if the mother ceded by docility, vanity and self-esteem would
be good ways to subdue daughter. I would rather he take pity in their hearts with the vehemence
of zeal inflamed him, but he realized that he was forced to follow the maximum bend to the nature and
character of every sinner, to become more likely. Finally, many days talking to Dona Manuela,
determined to probe to Leocadia, and finding it an evening reading in the dining room, while
Don José rested and mother was out, approached, bringing him another book in hand.

- Know God - the said between severe and smiling - what tome that will be! Is it that brings
you the groom?

- Yes.

- Lovely role for a young man attempting readings harmful to the woman he wants, and good way to
love ... if you love!

- Why do you say that?

- Calm down, child,
calm down, no I mean, God forbid! that young do not wish, what strikes
me is that you love him.

- I think what I want!

- It seems in bad
kind, but what happens to your brother must be plagadito of ideas
now, and of those who do not believe in the light of day.

Ready, it will be, too bad office has so ugly!

- The of his father ... He began studying to be a lawyer, but then
the same thing happened to Pepe.

The word office rang in the ears of Tirso Leocadia as planned.

-
You will always be stuck between ordinary people, workers and laborers,
then they tune your ... but bad work is.

- But can you imagine that
Millan is a porter or serene? - "She said, laughing forcedly .-- I
wrong: it's a decent guy, like Pepe, who has to live well, working
as Pepe.

- No, daughter, and Pepe, no, our brother is the son of
a public official, the father of that young, if I heard correctly,
was a compositor, a laborer.

- Printer.

- Call it what you want.

Being old, was the owner of the printing press, but its origin can not be more humble. That does
not mean it is bad person, but, finally, why do you dislike we covet
for you the best?

Leocadia looked at his brother, surprised that and worry about their future.

- What I tell you - continued the priest - is that, so young, and
collecting terms Women are key to healthy prosperity, should not a
formal commitment lower man to you, because I do not deny it.

Position has perhaps better off than ours, but one thing is the welfare,
and another area of ​​each.

Today, we have money, but not our parents or our grandparents were artisans. Believe me, Leocadia
do not commit yourself to anyone, and not give up your freedom of
action.

No you're born to women a laborer.

- Dale with journeyman! is an industry, we, a printer, but not a laborer.

- Bah! my dear: let us call things by their names.

Worker is only worker and if you marry him, God knows you have to go some day to take the food
basket as a bricklayer.

- So, according to you, I expect you to come and ask for my hand a
degree of Castile.

- Not at all: it seems that even a good guy, is
not justified to give up on it's what you reserve for the future.

Nobody knows what the future for a girl.

Tired Leocadia knew that after that problematic hope of future greatness, which Tirso real impetus
was the antipathy felt against Millan, since he met in politics and lack of religion coincided with
Pepe, but as these same arguments He claimed to be the ever own, succeed in putting pressure
on the heart. It seemed undeniable Millán goodness, but Tirso was partly right. The touch with
the people in the press had given his harsh frankness tinge, sometimes
bordering on rudeness, his feelings served honored coarse language
interpreter, to see something neat and composed, it was necessary
wait till Sunday: have not walked Tirso misguided and, in time, she
had to bring in the food basket, resigned to be a craftswoman, ie
the opposite type that of the girls, whose manners and clothes tried
to imitate.

At different times her sister did Tirso similar reasoning, and as the ground was well prepared,
the seed began to germinate.

It started the turn, the first thing he was to prevent often Millán
visits during the week, based on borrowing books: then came the scene
narrated by the lover scorned Pepe, which intervened Tirso and finally,
the girl so strongly stressed his indifference, the bridegroom almost
stopped deserve this name.

To be the love of deep-rooted passion Millán, had been striving to regain what they lost, but
he also beat a fund and exaggerated self-esteem, that was of greater
account of the pride that the baby .-- "Do not talk about this to
your sister - had told his friend - because the will is not imposed
or received anything for charity.

"

That was a very bad impression Pepe, but even more displeased to see the intervention demonstrated
the cure. The thing was out of doubt: after trying to seize the spirit of the mother, began to explore
various means of a daughter for the same purpose. What would their ulterior motives? Reasons
of personal convenience, apparently none. The only plausible that work was driven not only by
religious proselytizing, and in this case, to commit company in the peace and happiness of the family,
their fanaticism would be great. How risk, in any other way, promoting a rift between parents
and children, venturing the tranquility of home and the poor health of Don Jose, for only the lack
of compliance by the pious duties?

Pepe hated it so much, given his ideas that he could not be attributed to his brother so great blindness,
assuming that if only the zeal prompted him, had moderate affects more mundane but no less pure.
His understanding rejected the possibility that there man to embarrass their parents to give luster
to the religion. The nonchalance with which Millán Leocadia and began to look lost with this
significance in the eyes of Pepe: Her True concern was the conduct of Tirso, and came to dislike
so much that I threw his beloved Peace to see immediately.

* * * * *

First, a romantic spirit, typical of free-educated girl, she becomes infatuated to Peace with the love
of Pepe: later, when he came to understand how much he was worth, that tilt insensibly deepened
and, at the beginning was game of the imagination, came to be, the more natural, simple, sincere
and well-rooted love. The clerk, as she imagined her friends would call him if they should know, he
had entered the soul, persuading that he wanted because his face began to fear that his father would
know that, despite Democratic Posturing I used to do in Parliament. But this was not what most distress.
Their concern stemmed from disgruntled continually see Pepe, and the conviction of being in love
came out of that relationship he established his mind between the pity she felt and concern he
showed. When peace was made aware that, even ignoring the cause, despite saddened by her boyfriend,
when, unable weighed, felt a pain of others as their own, then noticed that his heart began
to reign a will different from his, and the man, only with loyalty and good faith, was taking over
his will slowly but probably as large river channel deepens the underpinning. Peace, apparently
frivolous, like anyone who has not suffered, but very clever, was persuaded early on that loved,
because his thoughts, far from intimidated to the obstacles that could love cause it was fixed
exclusively on the pain of the man he wanted.

       The first sample true passion was the sincerity with which he spoke.

One morning, being in the library of his father, who was where whenever he saw one missing from
there, "said Pepe, mild language and using its free, then more open than ever:

- I have to tell you something very serious.

- What?

- I made a discovery: you do not want me and I love you more than me contained.

- I do not understand.

- Clarito, son, that your love - will use this word, for greater solemnity, but you know that I
prefer to say love - well, your love is much warmer than mine.

- Let's see how it is shown that great lie.

- In a very simple way. I always pass that you are bored with being rich and you me poor, of course,
that does not offend me, pass the mania of celite, which makes no
sense common choke pass without coming three to four days in a row,
so you want to wait more ...

- No, for fear that your father guess
what happens.

- Let me finish, what is not happening, is that you
have trouble, you're sorry and I streets.

So silly me, that no good to say not a word of comfort?

- What does
this tenderness, my soul, with the discovery?

- Because nothing can
be more visible.

You, suffering and ocultándomelo, reveal a lack great confidence,
which is lack of love, and I, aquejerándome, as they say in Andalusia
for your book, I show love a thousand times.

- But where did you
get that I have trouble?

- That I was missing, add the pretense of
a lack of confidence.

Will not you tell me what's wrong?

Pepe, who preferred to talk only about their love, or had proposed
internal streets of home, said denying, and ended by telling Peace:

-
If you think it is mere curiosity, it displays the lips, but stating:
stay free to find out.

- Find out what pleases you, but love me a
lot.

The entrance of Don Luis cut dialogue

.


"Aunt Mary," Arnold's second daughter, I have already spoken of. When my father and mother
reached England from Tasmania, she had just married again, a Leicestershire clergyman, with
a house and small estate near Loughborough. Her home--Woodhouse--on the borders of Charnwood
Forest, and the beautiful Beaumanoir Park, was another fairyland to me and to my cousins. Its
ponds and woods and reed-beds; its distant summer-house between two waters, where one might
live and read and dream through long summer hours, undisturbed; its pleasant rooms, above all
the "tapestry room" where I generally slept, and which I always connected with the description
of the huntsman on the "arras," in "Tristram and Iseult"; the Scott novels I devoured there,
and the "Court" nights at Beaumanoir, where some feudal customs were still kept up, and its
beautiful mistress, Mrs. Herrick, the young wife of an old man, queened it very graciously
over neighbors and tenants--all these are among the lasting memories of life. Mrs. Herrick
became identified in my imagination with each successive Scott heroine,--Rowena, Isabella,
Rose Bradwardine, the White Lady of Avenel, and the rest. But it was Aunt Mary herself, after
all, who held the scene. In that Leicestershire world of High Toryism, she raised the Liberal
flag--her father's flag--with indomitable courage, but also with a humor which, after the tragic
hours of her youth, flowered out in her like something new and unexpectedly delightful. It
must have been always there, but not till marriage and motherhood, and F.D. Maurice's influence,
had given her peace of soul does it seem to have shown itself as I remember it--a golden and
pervading quality, which made life unfailingly pleasant beside her. Her clear, dark eyes, with
their sweet sincerity, and the touch in them of a quiet laughter, of which the causes were
not always clear to the bystanders, her strong face with its points of likeness to her father's,
and all her warm and most human personality--they are still vividly present to me, though it
is nearly thirty years since, after an hour or two's pain, she died suddenly and unexpectedly,
of the same malady that killed her father. Consumed in her youth by a passionate idealism,
she had accepted at the hands of life, and by the age of four and twenty, a lot by no means
ideal--a home in the depths of the country, among neighbors often uncongenial, and far from
the intellectual pleasures she had tasted during her young widowhood in London. But out of
this lot she made something beautiful, and all her own--by sheer goodness, conscience, intelligence.
She had her angles and inconsistencies; she often puzzled those who loved her; but she had
a large brain and a large heart; and for us colonial children, conscious of many disadvantages
beside our English-born cousins, she had a peculiar tenderness, a peculiar laughing sympathy,
that led us to feel in "Aunt Maria" one of our best friends.

Susan Arnold, the Doctor's fourth daughter, married Mr. John Cropper in 1858, and here, too,
in her house beside the Mersey, among fields and trees that still maintain a green though besmutted
oasis in the busy heart of Liverpool, that girdles them now on all sides, and will soon engulf
them, there were kindness and welcome for the little Tasmanians. She died a few years ago,
mourned and missed by her own people--those lifelong neighbors who know truly what we are.
Of the fifth daughter, Frances, "Aunt Fan," I may not speak, because she is still with us in
the old house--alive to every political and intellectual interest of these darkened days, beloved
by innumerable friends in many worlds, and making sunshine still for Arnold's grandchildren
and their children's children. But it was to her that my own stormy childhood was chiefly confided,
at Fox How; it was she who taught the Tasmanian child to read, and grappled with her tempers;
and while she is there the same magic as of old clings about Fox How for those of us who have
loved it, and all it stands for, so long.

CHAPTER V

THE FRIENDS OF FOX HOW

It remains for me now to say something of those friends of Fox How and my father whose influence,
or whose living presence, made the atmosphere in which the second generation of children who
loved Fox How grew up.

Wordsworth died in 1850, the year before I was born. He and my grandfather were much attached
to each other--"old Coleridge," says my grandfather, "inoculated a little knot of us with the
love of Wordsworth"--though their politics were widely different, and the poet sometimes found
it hard to put up with the reforming views of the younger man. In a letter printed in Stanley's
Life my grandfather mentions "a good fight" with Wordsworth over the Reform Bill of 1832, on
a walk to Greenhead Ghyll. And there is a story told of a girl friend of the family who, once
when Wordsworth had been paying a visit at Fox How, accompanied him and the Doctor part of
the way home to Rydal Mount. Something was inadvertently said to stir the old man's Toryism,
and he broke out in indignant denunciation of some views expressed by Arnold. The storm lasted
all the way to Pelter Bridge, and the girl on Arnold's left stole various alarmed glances at
him to see how he was taking it. He said little or nothing, and at Pelter Bridge they all parted,
Wordsworth going on to Rydal Mount, and the other two turning back toward Fox How. Arnold paced
along, his hands behind his back, his eyes on the ground, and his companion watched him, till
he suddenly threw back his head with a laugh of enjoyment.--"What beautiful English the old
man talks!"

The poet complained sometimes--as I find from an amusing passage in the letter to Mr. Howson
quoted below, that he could not see enough of his neighbor, the Doctor, on a mountain walk,
because Arnold was always so surrounded with children and pupils, "like little dogs" running
round and after him. But no differences, great or small, interfered with his constant friendship
to Fox How. The garden there was largely planned by him during the family absences at Rugby;
the round chimneys of the house are said to be of his design; and it was for Fox How, which
still possesses the MS., that the fine sonnet was written, beginning--

  Wansfell, this household has a favored lot
  Living with liberty on thee to gaze--

a sonnet which contains, surely, two or three of the most magical lines that Wordsworth ever wrote.

It is of course no purpose of these notes to give any fresh account of Wordsworth at Rydal,
or any exhaustive record of the relations between the Wordsworths and Fox How, especially after
the recent publication of Professor Harper's fresh, interesting, though debatable biography.
But from the letters in my hands I glean a few things worth recording. Here, for instance,
is a passing picture of Matthew Arnold and Wordsworth in the Fox How drawing-room together,
in January, 1848, which I find in a letter from my grandmother to my father:

    Matt has been very much pleased, I think, by what he has seen of dear
    old Wordsworth since he has been at home, and certainly he manages to
    draw him out very well. The old man was here yesterday, and as he sat
    on the stool in the corner beside the fire which you knew so well,
    he talked of various subjects of interest, of Italian poetry, of
    Coleridge, etc., etc.; and he looked and spoke with more vigor than
    he has often  done lately.

But the poet's health was failing. His daughter Dora's death in 1847 had hit him terribly hard,
and his sister's state--the helpless though gentle insanity of the unique, the beloved Dorothy--weighed
heavily on his weakening strength. I find a touching picture of him in the unpublished letter
referred to on a previous page, written in this very year--1848--to Dean Howson, as a young
man, by his former pupil, the late Duke of Argyll, the distinguished author of The Reign of
Law--which Dean Howson's son and the Duke's grandson allow me to print. The Rev. J.S. Howson,
afterward Dean of Chester, married a sister of the John Cropper who married Susan Arnold, and
was thus a few years later brought into connection with the Arnolds and Fox How. The Duke and
Duchess had set out to visit both the Lakes and the Lakes "celebrities," advised, evidently,
as to their tour, by the Duke's old tutor, who was already familiar with the valleys and some
of their inmates. Their visit to Fox How is only briefly mentioned, but of Wordsworth and Rydal
Mount the Duke gives a long account. The picture, first, of drooping health and spirits, and
then of the flaming out of the old poetic fire, will, I think, interest any true Wordsworthian.

    On Saturday [writes the Duke] we reached Ambleside and soon after
    drove to Rydal Mount. We found the Poet seated at his fireside,
    and a little languid in manner. He became less so as he talked.
    ... He talked incessantly, but not generally interestingly.... I
    looked at him often and asked myself if that was the man who had
    stamped the impress of his own mind so decidedly on a great part
    of the literature of his age! He took us to see a waterfall near
    his house, and talked and chattered, but said nothing remarkable
    or even thoughtful. Yet I could see that all this was only that
    we were on the surface, and did not indicate any decay of mental
    powers. [Still] we went away with no other impression than the
    vaguest of having seen the man, whose writings we knew so well--
    and with no feeling that we had seen anything of the mind which
    spoke through them.

On the following day, Sunday, the Duke with a friend walked over to Rydal, but found no one
at the Mount but an invalid lady, very old, and apparently paralyzed, "drawn in a bath chair
by a servant." They did not realize that the poor sufferer, with her wandering speech and looks,
was Dorothy Wordsworth, whose share in her great brother's fame will never be forgotten while
literature lasts.

In the evening, however--

    ... after visiting Mrs. Arnold we drove together to bid Wordsworth
    good-by, as we were to go next morning. But how?

After much thought, after trying in vain unwrinkle the newspaper with his hands, took him to the
kitchen and straightened with a hot iron, leaving it to his brother after find him without seeing
him Tirso. When evening came Pepe Millan, who used to eat there on Sunday, leaving much of the
night with Don Jose, for being near Leocadia. Presentation made him the father of his eldest son
happily ate all desktop and talked about politics, the only conversation I had the privilege
of diverting the poor old man, who was every moment means to relate the events of that time with
those of his youth, drawing comparisons between men and different times.

Pepe had begun to read Spanish La Libertad, which asked Leocadia and she brought without a single
wrinkle, to the surprise of Tirso, but this remained silent, willing to listen Miller that,
looking from time to time to the girl, holding a dialogue with Don
José.

Said old:

- Here are not only clumsy, if the liberal party is divided, we will see things sad.

- Already we are seeing. Does it seem to you little development left to take to war?

- If what you have done now for 69 Prim! ... Of course, sooner or later, will to do: with no progress
Conventions anything. I remember that when the de Vergara, who were actually lost us after
the Liberal Party said the crown the Queen, he was treated like a black-Espartero cornered him
at once, to official Carlist favored them much, they said we were
all brothers, and ours, which winter had beaten in denim pants ...
went to the Philippines or as Fernando Poo looked suspicious.

- That
and similar things so many Republicans in the new generation, because
we convinced that there is no alternative.

- That is very dangerous:
people are not ready.

- And since no one teaches anything, does he
have to learn at their own expense.

- Is that today there is no civic
virtues.

If you had known Mendizabal, then to Olózaga, now so fallen ...: it was he who called progressives
who said before exalted.

It has always been more liberal enthusiasm now.

If you only saw what indignation 40 year unfolded against Toreno
and Martinez de la Rosa, requested the extension because of half tithe,
and even the whole tithe and the scoop!

Well they would not approve Espartero the famous Councils Act!

- Enthusiasm sterile, and have often been drowned in blood.

- In that you are right. Was condemned to death for anything. Since the execution of Manzanares
sixty partners and twenty of Alicante, May 8, until the Sergeants
June 22, has last year without any such brutality, except to Zurbano,
and the death of Mariana de Pineda, for whom it was necessary to make
a new club, because my neck was very skinny ...

- In spite of this
- broke Pepe - there are those who look favorably upon the Restoration
and who fights for Don Carlos.

If Spain are monarchists, and especially Bourbon is because nobody
reads contemporary history.

- Finally, my children, you know that
I have a good memory: well, since December 43 to Christmas Eve of
44, two hundred and fourteen people were shot, most by liberals.

-
Have you right, Don Jose, and paid the crown to the Liberal Party,
first by the father and then the daughter, had made so many sacrifices
...

- Well if you do have family holy spirit - Pepe said - we were
without a drop of blood.

Upon hearing this joke wicked Tirso could not take it anymore. Praise Mendizabal, the reference
to tithing and the scoop, the horror of the executions of revolutionaries, the liberal spirit throbbing
in the conversation, made him harm, but to exploit what a grace the
third person of the Holy Trinity, set the height to their outrage.

Then, rising from his seat, approached the group formed by Pepe and Miller with Don José and,
as before the balcony, on which stood clear opening its slender black figure and said sternly:

-
It seems incredible that men talk and opinion!

Miller stopped in deference to his friend, and Don Jose because he
repented of having said such things, leaving room for the wrath of
Tirso: Pepe, more passionate, he faced it, and while talking moderately,
he said:

- It is natural to have sympathy for the reactionary parties,
are those that protect you; but do you deny that we can not look good
for the Church?

Always, and renege on their origin, has been the enemy of freedom and democracy.

- Freedom! Freedom! What for? " And what is democracy? allowing them to send crooks. Democracy!
How many pounds of potatoes are bought with that?

- No! freedom
is what Christ commanded you to preach democracy is that which hath
allowed you, clerics and monks, born among the most humble, climbing
posts highest in the world.

- For Mendizabal was a thief.

- That
is a nonsense that has nothing to do with what we say.

And look, do not fret; but what I like Mendizabal, is for being who has done more harm to the
Church.

- Hush, my children, hush! - Shouted Don José: - Are you going to fight now? I will not say much, but
Mendizabal was a great man. Take care if you have had merit a fifth of the 100,000 men!

Tirso made futile efforts to hide his disgust.

In vain to calm those affected hear things. His displeasure was not grief, but anger, seeing
that he was wrong when, shortly set foot in the house, he imagined that there was no devotion
or belief.

His father was a progressive ridiculous that Espartero excited talking, and his brother a demagogue
atheist, of which make a mockery of God and Divine Providence, his
mother a poor lady, whom he imagined to be a saint because he was
industrious, and a little girl presumed Leocadia, who spent the morning
embandolinándose hair.

There was no mass, or fasting, or praying; there was no bull, ate meat on Fridays and father tolerated
Pepe wicked jokes.

Was to vent their anger about violence in apostrophes, of which so often heard the gentlemen
who frequented the house of Mr. Thaddeus, but just looked at her brother pity, saying:

- You seem like Jews!

No greater insult conceived.

The women looked at the last words of dialogue, said gruffly, surprising
the news that there Wheels by political matters, Miller went to stand
beside Leocadia; Don Jose was silent, trying to find means of changing
the conversation, stood Tirso to the balcony, as challenging them
to all and ready to resume the dispute.

His figure was arrogant, more like soldiers ready to fight, that man eager to convince After a while,
as a champion who has waited in vain for his adversary, left the room quietly. Pepe and Miller
went for a walk through the streets.

In the portal, that he asked, referring to the last scene:

- Have you heard?

- You are going to have much trouble.

- Would you believe that this is the time we do not know why you came?

- Was he in town Carlist relationships with people?

- Why do you
ask?

- Be careful ... lest there come with some commission.

Now stir a lot.

Let's see if you give the police a scare. To print your father would be a disaster.

* * * * *

The next afternoon went to the home a very respectable-looking gentleman, asking by Tirso.
Leocadia accompanied him to the kitchen and told her brother, but he barely heard the name of the
newcomer, he was carried to his room and remained locked up with long time him. The visit was
long, and fired Tirso unknown with a great show of respect.

Since that interview, the priest went out almost every night, but
said or where ever he went.

XIV

       Often both at that time the priests who escaped from their parishes,
then appeared as leaders in the field or were caught in the cities
serving as assistants and messengers near the fractious party together,
that there was nothing absurd suspicion Millán: justificábala also
Tirso's commitment to remain silent for the purpose of your trip.

Could not they have become fanaticism that man in his instrument the same people that made him
cleric backs of their parents? The probability that in the present when you least expect it
police in the house looking for his brother, Pepe scared, fearful of the impression that such
release could cause in the mind of poor old man.

Regarding to give room for disappointment Tirso otherwise, for the proposed conversion of the
family or take campaign to raise their religious fervor, nothing
suspicious: was once feared, according to the character that the priest
showed, some feature of intolerance, excessive heat or harsh sentence
to disturb the tranquility of home, because false circumspection watched
Tirso hearing news of the war comment resembled the sly.

From the day of the dispute that thief called Mendizabal, turned a blind eye with respect to religious
indifference that surrounded him, but clearly felt that it was not all prudence, but lack
of courage. Pepe, anxious not to fuel the irritability of his brother, abstained wicked jokes
and mocking phrases, but sometimes he came to his lips, hearing deploy more naively rooted superstition
so that both began to pretend certain restraint, despite that Pepe knew that the situation was not
for long and the slightest thing to Tirso provide an opportunity to show their anger would be
enough to trigger a storm. For its part, the priest was convinced that he had come to be among
parents and siblings as tree suddenly transplanted to other land of his birth. Difficult was
that he could take root there or live in peace with their own. If they were lukewarm in their devotion
or just slow to meet the religious practices still have choice, but it was not people whose
heart had cushioned the faith, but of individuals who, judging by what Tirso seen, not felt before.
The father had no beliefs, perhaps a result of sympathy progressive
party that lied always respect for religion, not hide unwillingness
of the clergy Leocadia and doña Manuela women were misdirected, or
rather, neglected.

As for Pepe, their unbelief, their absence of all divine and sacred were more serious, because
the fruit, not forgetting the holy truths, but a deep contempt for them: he pushed the disbelief currents
of the time, studies modern courtly atmosphere and a definite predisposition. In this he was right
Tirso: parents and sister gave their comments as they really were: indifferent Pepe, as an unrepentant
confident with whom the struggle had to be more laborious, because the fight was inevitable.
He did not come home with the intention to provoke, but neither seemed unreasonable under his
ministry to look into that state of deep calm disturbance made him break out in a moment of
anger, "you seem to Jews." His enthusiasm was sincere religious: conscience told him that
if the hazards of life he had placed next to strangers, empecatadas as their parents and siblings,
would have dogged efforts to convert them, and that bad could look coldly destruction of his own
vineyard. When solved your trip to the court, not imagine having to devote to this work: some
were his purposes and he only knew; but since Providence showed him the weeds in its path, was
starting, but to step outside without being distracted from its main object. Duty along the
pleasant and painful save her parents and siblings of eternal damnation! Some read books analog devotees
but not so big. This saint became a spouse, another to his father, one to his brother: he
was dealing with his family, which never before thought, which lived paragraph voluntarily,
but suddenly it seemed scattered flock to the edge of a deep, and which was to be guided to pick
in the fold of the Church blessed. Brought him to cut the company to serve higher, because
it is the entire nation and not a few individuals, but since God put the sore at your hands and
the wound was as in the same body just was to heal her.

It began to worsen in the parent's illness, it took higher expenses came sad day for the family
and Dona Manuela greatly dismayed, for all of which determined Tirso start fulfilling its purpose,
imagining that in the midst of trouble is when most easily overwhelm our hearts. His mother and
sister were the first who attract thought. Not reach more sagacity, and even this will greatly disgusted,
as all delay seemed to her complicity in evil and all pretense seemed unworthy of the noble straightened
so that the will. It was fiery, Arriscado, but guessing at his brother a terrible opponent, he
realized that the circumstances put obstacles to his zeal. Would have preferred to fight face
to face obstacles, suddenly gather family and convince them of their error; but did not venture
much and, against his will, as there could be violent, it was clever: dreamed of playing the
role of apostle is combative, and had to be limited to acting as a Jesuit novel, but in good faith,
with a clear intention, make sure the mood in a company honest.

Determined to eradicate the wickedness which had dominion over his home, he would not delay
it, and one morning, and finds that Dona Manuela was unfolding the shawl to go shopping some
medications, anticipated it and waited in a corner next: then he followed Imperial down the street,
and when he would enter a drug store in the Toledo, called closely:

- Mother, Mother!

- Son, how are you doing here?

- I want to talk with you Do you have to wait in the pharmacy?

- A little bit.

- Well, let us first by drugs, then we will wait together, and I'll tell you what I want.

Tirso severe spoke with an accent, his mother heard him with a curiosity mixed with fear.

- But man, what is it? Is something wrong at home?

- No: if I left I was almost at the same time as you! Nothing happens, but I want to talk.

Dona Manuela entered in the pharmacy, esperola him outside, and just
saw her leave, continued to Thus, while she obediently followed him:

-
Let's go there next, the portico of San Isidro .-- And they went up
the stairs of the church.

- Look at you, mother, I will not shut
up: I disgustadísimo.

Since I have arrived in Madrid a heart full of sadness ...

- I understand,
son, our situation is not without reason.

If you saw the bay ever!

... And what's left! ...

- There's nothing like that.

- I do not understand you.

- Now you understand me My duty was to tell my father that I will tell you, but I think that
you will understand me better, also his character and state ... Later
I'll see what I have to do.

- Character, you say?

If the poor are not upset or annoyed anyone ever! ...

- Maybe that goodness we have much to mourn.

- Explain, by God, my
son!

- Yes, mother, much to mourn and to feel.

Well, Clarita, at home no religion, and where takes religion all is lost. So God punished you.

- God punish!

- I seem to you a few sentences that disease, the scarcity of such suffering! ...

- And what did we do?

We all work. Have not you seen the life they lead your brothers and
what I labors?

- Ask what you can do!

It seems impossible! It is impossible for God to help you.

Vainly sought to provide sweetness to his phrases, the extraordinary
vividness of an accused eyes strong resolution.

- No, mother, do
not expect you relief or protection.

At home there is no religion, no praying, no practice a single devotion
... Da creeps thinking.

For almost a month since I'm in Madrid I have seen many sad things!

Not a prayer, nor an act of mercy! I understand that father not go to church, although it may
well replace it with some acts of devotion and penance; But what
about you?

Leocadia what? What about Pepe? You live as heretics!

I confess, mother, I doubted much before taking this step, but my duty is first and foremost.
Do not you feel afraid ... shame to live well?

- And what do you
want?

I do not control ... I take care of the house ... and nothing more: cleaning ... work and more
work ... I do not know!

- Clean and working! With that you think has been accomplished! When the Lord takes this world,
that will ... unfortunately, is save you to have had the house neat? The house clean and the
black soul by sin! All neatly for oneself, all work for the same, and not a visit to the house
of God, not a thought for Mother Divine!

Da anger to see him!

Doña Manuela heard in silence, overwhelmed with this unexpected disappointment, that even for low
intelligence was a sign of bigger ones. The vehemence of Tirso became exacerbated therefore
the poor old woman could not help but say, almost angrily:

- Son, no slapping, people see us!

He was already possessed of his role, and would not listen.

- There is no son!

There is but one priest who had seen the foul leprosy of atheism and wants to heal. Did you
hear, mother? If you do not help me, I will just ... I will try alone, and if I can not do,
I'll tell you all face to face, shake at the door the dust off my shoes, like the patriarchs
of Israel as they left the house of the wicked, and you will not see me ever again.

- And the scandal and disgust your father will die.

- What more death than we have up? The heart closed to pity ... If you simply enter there to
be convinced! ... Pictures of prisoners liberals on the walls, newspapers perverse those selling
in the streets, carrying noveluchas comedies of the press that Miller and that you allow to read
Leocadia, bad books ... and throughout the house there is an image
of the Virgin or a wooden cross ...

- I do not control ...

- Well,
you have to send the absence of a father, and we as missing, you are
the should govern: I'll help ... and choose you, mother to remedy
the evil, or let the remedy myself, against my father, against Pepe,
against all.

- No, son of my soul, my God, why not, Pepe did not
talk about these things!

- Ah!

Do you have fear?

I have not.

They spoke quietly, alone in a corner of the churchyard, while looking
at them curiously a woman on the steps of selling prints, framed faces
of God tin, groundnuts, hawthorn and torrao.

Tirso intimidating gestures gesticulating with his mother broken-she,
and eager to cut the dialogue, looked alternately at the floor and
onto the sidewalk opposite where was the pharmacy.

The charges of impiety did not at first impressive; Tirso but when
presented as the cause of the evils suffered and promise of eternal
punishment, womanly weakness gave the thrust of the believer.

What set her worst, was the threat of would talk to Pepe.

They kept silent for a moment: he, doubtful of the success of your business, she, embarrassed,
anxious to escape the violent influence of his son, to subdue it better, just say it: "I am but a
priest."

- Are we going to the pharmacy? - Finally dared to ask the mother.

- Wait for you, do not want us to separate well. You have to promise before the rescue. Will it
work You with me so that we are all Christians, and I understand I with Pepe and my father? Can
you imagine you live holy by not doing harm to others?

What blindness! What about yourself? What about your salvation?

Pray you, mother, this is the first, and God's light and remove them from your soul that apathy come
You to church, and little to awaken the good feelings, you will stop laughing antics sacrilegious
my brother, you shall burn with desire for help. Did you promise?

- Yes, my son - said embarrassed - but Pepe did not tell any of this.

- As I understand it is him who is to blame for what happens!

We agreed that you are mine, ie God, otherwise I will leave for good, after declaring openly
to all I do not want to live among Jews.

Slowly descended the stairs of the court, Tirso waited at the door of the shop and saw leaving
his mother with a bottle in his hand, said:

- Both care, such request to seek remedy for the ills of the body
that do not matter nothing and no one thought to the health of the
soul!

Remember what you just mentioned.

Then he left her, leaving her confused and frightened, a woman who's just been amazing committing
a crime. Sin, condemnation, impiety, had sounded in their ears how empty words, the warnings of
a Bossuet had not exercised in she most empire. What was left unnerved about the threat of her
husband and Pepe, safe that reduced Tirso counterclaim sour cause
a scene, perhaps a break and a grave disappointment. What could she
do about it? It is therefore surely to be encouraged both in oneself and in children;
and that, although I have often felt that there is something inhuman, or infrahuman, in it,
as though the earth-gods in us all--Pan, or Demeter-- laid ghostly hands again, for a space,
upon the soul and sense that nobler or sadder faiths have ravished from them.

In these Westmorland walks, however, my father had sometimes another companion--a frequent
visitor at Fox How, where he was almost another son to my grandmother, and an elder brother
to her children. How shall one ever make the later generation understand the charm of Arthur
Stanley? There are many--very many--still living, in whom the sense of it leaps up, at the
very mention of his name. But for those who never saw him, who are still in their twenties
and thirties, what shall I say? That he was the son of a Bishop of Norwich and a member of
the old Cheshire family of the Stanleys of Alderley; that he was a Rugby boy and a devoted
pupil of Arnold, whose Life he wrote, so that it stands out among the biographies of the century,
not only for its literary merit, but for its wide and varied influence on feeling and opinion;
that he was an Oxford tutor and Professor all through the great struggle of Liberal thought
against the reactionary influences let loose by Newman and the Tractarian movement; that, as
Regius Professor at Oxford, and Canon of Canterbury, if he added little to learning, or research,
he at least kept alive--by his power of turning all he knew into image and color--that great
"art" of history which the Dryasdusts so willingly let die; that as Dean of Westminster, he
was still the life and soul of all the Liberalism in the Church, still the same generous friend
and champion of all the spiritually oppressed that he had ever been? None of the old "causes"
beloved of his youth could ever have said of him, as of so many others:

  Just for a handful of silver he left us, Just for a ribbon to stick in
  his coat--

He was, no doubt, the friend of kings and princes, and keenly conscious, always, of things
long-descended, with picturesque or heroic associations. But it was he who invited Colenso
to preach in the Abbey, after his excommunication by the fanatical and now forgotten Bishop
of Cape Town; it was he who brought about that famous Communion of the Revisers in the Abbey,
where the Unitarian received the Sacrament of Christ's death beside the Wesleyan and the Anglican,
and who bore with unflinching courage the idle tumult which followed; it was he, too, who first
took special pains to open the historical Abbey to working-men, and to give them an insight
into the meaning of its treasures. He was not a social reformer in the modern sense; that was
not his business. But his unfailing power of seeing and pouncing upon the interesting-- the
dramatic--in any human lot, soon brought him into relation with men of callings and types the
most different from his own; and for the rest he fulfilled to perfection that hard duty--"the
duty to our equals"--on which Mr. Jowett once preached a caustic and suggestive sermon. But
for him John Richard Green would have abandoned history, and student after student, heretic
after heretic, found in him the man who eagerly understood them and chivalrously fought for them.

And then, what a joy he was to the eye! His small spare figure, miraculously light, his delicate
face of tinted ivory--only that ivory is not sensitive and subtle, and incredibly expressive,
as were the features of the little Dean; the eager, thin-lipped mouth, varying with every shade
of feeling in the innocent great soul behind it; the clear eyes of china blue; the glistening
white hair, still with the wave and spring of youth in it; the slender legs, and Dean's dress,
which becomes all but the portly, with, on festal occasions, the red ribbon of the Bath crossing
the mercurial frame: there are still a few pictures and photographs by which these characteristics
are dimly recalled to those at least who knew the living man. To my father, who called him
"Arthur," and to all the Fox How circle, he was the most faithful of friends, though no doubt
my father's conversion to Catholicism to some extent, in later years, separated him from Stanley.
In the letter I have printed on a former page, written on the night before my father left England
for New Zealand in 1847, and cherished by its recipient all his life, there is a yearning,
personal note, which was, perhaps, sometimes lacking in the much-surrounded, much-courted Dean
of later life. It was not that Arthur Stanley, any more than Matthew Arnold, ever became a
worldling in the ordinary sense. But "the world" asks too much of such men as Stanley. It heaps
all its honors and all its tasks upon them, and without some slight stiffening of its substance
the exquisite instrument cannot meet the strain.

Mr. Hughes always strongly denied that the George Arthur of Tom Brown's Schooldays had anything
whatever to do with Arthur Stanley. But I should like to believe that some anecdote of Stanley's
schooldays had entered at least into the well-known scene where Arthur, in class, breaks down
in construing the last address of Helen to the dead Hector. Stanley's memory, indeed, was alive
with the great things or the picturesque detail of literature and history, no less than with
the humorous or striking things of contemporary life. I remember an amusing instance of it
at my own wedding breakfast. Stanley married us, and a few days before he had buried Frederick
Denison Maurice. His historical sense was pleased by the juxtaposition of the two names Maurice
and Arnold, suggested by the funeral of Maurice and the marriage of Arnold's granddaughter.
The consequence was that his speech at the wedding breakfast was quite as much concerned with
"graves and worms and epitaphs" as with things hymeneal. But from "the little Dean" all things
were welcome.

My personal memory of him goes back to much earlier days. As a child at Fox How, he roused
in me a mingled fascination and terror. To listen to him quoting Shakspeare or Scott or Macaulay
was fascination; to find his eye fixed on one, and his slender finger darting toward one, as
he asked a sudden historical question--"Where did Edward the First die?"--"Where was the Black
Prince buried?"--was terror, lest, at seven years old, one should not be able to play up. I
remember a particular visit of his to Fox How, when the dates and places of these royal deaths
and burials kept us--myself in particular--in a perpetual ferment. It must, I think, have been
when he was still at Canterbury, investigating, almost with the zest and passion of the explorer
of Troy or Mycenae, what bones lie hid, and where, under the Cathedral floor, what sands--"fallen
from the ruined sides of Kings"--that this passion of deaths and dates was upon him. I can
see myself as a child of seven or eight, standing outside the drawing-room door at Fox How,
bracing myself in a mixture of delight and fear, as to what "Doctor Stanley" might ask me when
the door was opened; then the opening, and the sudden sharp turn of the slight figure, writing
letters at the middle table, at the sight of "little Mary"--and the expected thunderbolt:

"Where did Henry the Fourth die?"

Confusion--and blank ignorance!

But memory leaps forward to a day four or five years later, when my father and I invaded the
dark high room in the old Deanery, and the little Dean standing at his reading-desk. He looks
round--sees "Tom," and the child with him. His charming face breaks into a broad smile; he
remembers instantly, though it is some years since he and "little Mary" met. He holds out both
his hands to the little girl--

"Come and see the place where Henry the Fourth died!"

And off we ran together to the Jerusalem Chamber.

CHAPTER VI

YOUNG DAYS AT OXFORD

I

How little those who are school-girls of to-day can realize what it was to be a school-girl
in the fifties or the early sixties of the last century! A modern girls' school, equipped as
scores are now equipped throughout the country, was of course not to be found in 1858, when
I first became a school boarder, or in 1867, when I ceased to be one. The games, the gymnastics,
the solid grounding in drawing and music, together with the enormously improved teaching in
elementary science, or literature and language, which are at the service of the school-girl
of to-day, had not begun to be when I was at school. As far as intellectual training was concerned,
my nine years from seven to sixteen were practically wasted. I learned nothing thoroughly or
accurately, and the German, French, and Latin which I soon discovered after my marriage to
be essential to the kind of literary work I wanted to do, had all to be relearned before they
could be of any real use to me; nor was it ever possible for me-who married at twenty--to get
that firm hold on the structure and literary history of any language, ancient or modern, which
my brother William, only fifteen months my junior, got from his six years at Rugby, and his
training there in Latin and Greek. What I learned during those years was learned from personalities;
from contact with a nature so simple, sincere, and strong as that of Miss Clough; from the
kindly old German governess, whose affection for me helped me through some rather hard and
lonely school-years spent at a school in Shropshire; and from a gentle and high-minded woman,
an ardent Evangelical, with whom, a little later, at the age of fourteen or fifteen, I fell
headlong in love, as was the manner of school-girls then, and is, I understand, frequently
the case with school-girls now, in spite of the greatly increased variety of subjects on which
they may spend their minds.

English girls' schools to-day providing the higher education are, so far as my knowledge goes,
worthily representative of that astonishing rise in the intellectual standards of women which
has taken place in the last half-century. They are almost entirely taught by women, and women
with whom, in many cases, education--the shaping of the immature human creature to noble ends--is
the sincerest of passions; who find, indeed, in the task that same creative joy which belongs
to literature or art, or philanthropic experiment. The schoolmistress to whom money is the
sole or even the chief motive of her work, is, in my experience, rare to-day, though we have
all in our time heard tales of modern "academies" of the Miss Pinkerton type, brought up to
date--fashionable, exclusive, and luxurious--where, as in some boys' preparatory schools (before
the war!) the more the parents paid, the better they were pleased. But I have not come across
them. The leading boarding-schools in England and America, at present, no less than the excellent
day-schools for girls of the middle class, with which this country has been covered since 1870,
are genuine products of that Women's Movement, as we vaguely call it, in the early educational
phases of which I myself was much engaged; whereof the results are now widely apparent, though
as yet only half-grown. If one tracks it back to somewhere near its origins, its superficial
origins, at any rate, one is brought up, I think, as in the case of so much else, against one
leading cause--railways! With railways and a cheap press, in the second third of the nineteenth
century, there came in, as we all know, the break-up of a thousand mental stagnations, answering
to the old physical disabilities and inconveniences. And the break-up has nowhere had more
startling results than in the world of women, and the training of women for life. We have only
to ask ourselves what the women of Benjamin Constant, or of Beyle, or Balzac, would have made
of the keen school-girl and college girl of the present day, to feel how vast is the change
through which some of us have lived. Exceptional women, of course, have led much the same kind
of lives in all generations. Mrs. Sidney Webb has gone through a very different sort of self-education
from that of Harriet Martineau; but she has not thought more widely, and she will hardly influence
her world so much as that stanch fighter of the past. It is the rank and file--the average
woman--for whom the world has opened up so astonishingly. The revelation of her wide-spread
and various capacity that the present war has brought about is only the suddenly conspicuous
result of the liberating forces set in action by the scientific and mechanical development
of the nineteenth century. It rests still with that world "after the war," to which we are
all looking forward with mingled hope and fear, to determine the new forms, sociological and
political, through which this capacity, this heightened faculty, must some day organically
express itself.

In the years when I was at school, however--1858 to 1867--these good days were only beginning
to dawn. Poor teaching, poor school-books, and, in many cases, indifferent food and much ignorance
as to the physical care of girls--these things were common in my school-time. I loved nearly
all my teachers; but it was not till I went home to live at Oxford, in 1867, that I awoke intellectually
to a hundred interests and influences that begin much earlier nowadays to affect any clever
child. I had few tools and little grounding; and I was much more childish than I need have
been. I have fear of coming Tirso, the desire and
fear.

Don José silent sadly, that did not like, but since he knew the next arrival Madrid with his eldest
son, had fought for the same soul that stirred misgivings Pepe, and
listening to him, he thought to himself heard.

- For our part - continued
Pepe - no one is to disturb this harmony.

Here, you've seen since we know, Millán, my parents live for this and for me, us to them. These
furniture that are older than me, have never heard a dispute not the slightest disrespect. Leocadia
and I tried to mime that old people over a new toy boy. Do you know why? Because we have not separated
ever, and we slept one night without kissing, or had a pain that is not the other, neither silent
nor joy, nor has anyone eaten a bun without saving the other, or a suit made without thinking
about how many clothes were each one, in a word, boy, our ideas, in my conviction, my parents
and the latter by goodness, I have linked all the love, treasuring day by day and hour by hour,
unmixed selfishness, without sharing it with anyone ... (A Don José is moistened the eyes of
taste.) Y now come Tirso, educated away from us, become a man ... and we welcome them with open
arms. For my part, I can not wait: a few more care will be playing Dad more of us at home.
But ... God knows!

- No buts about it, it seems that you have left something inside the
body, it is so brother yours like this that I have kidded myself to
everyone.

- You do not understand what I meant, Mom.

For us all the joys of earth are within these walls, we can, or try to give them to us each
other.

When it comes Tirso you will hear in different ways, and see in it any aspiration, any idea which
transcends the affection that we have.

- Wow, that was it! ideas now, hush, child, hush.

- At the time,
mother, at a time.

Dinner had ended. The immediate street noises were gradually ceasing; perceived more clear the distant
chime of a church, which announced the Midnight Mass, the children oil cans still happening
from time to time by Imperial Street, and other floors of the house rose, with uneven intervals,
songs, carols, laughter, screams and a cat that was meowing all night without eating smelling
bream.

- Remove the table - "Dona Manuela, and began to save for Don José
what little was left the perry and nougat.

- Do you want that you
go to bed between that and me? - Miller asked the patient to give
.-- Van twelve in suspense will take for you to bed.

As before Dona Manuela made and Leocadia, Pepe and Miller were pushing the chair from the dining
room cabinet in which he slept Don José; Leocadia folding the cloth fell and napkins. A moment
later, Jose was dismissed from the inside telling the Millán, he was back out to the dining
room

- If there is news, see tomorrow, eh? and bring me a newspaper, which
is the only distraction I have.

- Rest assured you, not fail.

Goodbye, Dona Manuela, who pass you good night, and today in one year. Goodbye, Leo. Who will
you please go down to open up?

The girl, who was sleeping in the kitchen, accompanied Millán.

When you open the door up Street, were the two brothers sitting in
the dining room next to Dona Manuela.

- Let's wait for Dad to sleep
- said Leocadia - lest we hear.

Spend some time left, Leocadia unbraided thinning hair meanwhile her mother, gathering with
a pair of forks, and then did the same with her long brown curls.

Pepe lit a cigarette and looked at the lamp, as having to use it
until late, then have no missing oil.

- Much writing, brother.

-
Yo, when I want someone I'm not like you, if you just Millán.

Well, look: their intentions can not be clearer. Tonight I have said that they lowered your
soon to open up when they imagined that he was coming, but, well, there you are. I think you're
not very expressive with it.

- Funny! You want me to eat it with their eyes? Not to be a stamp!

- Do not think you want to get you the groom from his eyes.

What I say is that although you lived a hundred years, would not
find a better one.

- Is it Prince?

- Yes, as you princess.

- Well,
son, you rather make love to a lady's car.

In this cabinet appeared to Dona Manuela.

- Children, already half asleep, we will talk soon four words, I'm
exhausted and I also sleep.

- Look, Mom, what is that talking is
little, but there is no other means to decide something.

The pharmacy takes a lot of money, you need to spend less on everything else. I'll make a work
for Don Luis, who fixed pay me well, but what it should not occur have until next month.

- Well, the first thing is to fire the girl, but not more than thirty
real, it's something.

Tomorrow will take it to pawn the quilt candeleritos Philippines and silver.

- What you should do is to remove part of daily spending - said Leo .-- Do not bring meat rather
than dad, and tell you to eat in your room to move less, then we come into the room, and so does
not know.

- I, with three packs a week I have enough.

In addition, Don Luis I get some cigars and to keep chopping. Would you have said something
at the store?

- Yes - said Leocadia - per dozen handkerchiefs pay, according to the drawing, twenty-four Thirty-six
reals, and I have to put whatever it takes.

- In summary - Pepe said crunching numbers with a pencil on the margins of correspondence,
and muttering mumble calculation figures - we pay hard twenty-seven
Dad, ten and eight of my salary is forty-five, and eight or ten be
given to it by the embroidery ... of fifty-three to fifty-four dollars
a month, removing the twenty, at least, that there to give the market
over the time, and the lack of tailor peak, will be about thirty four
dollars ... put a hard day for the cost of the house ... the pharmacy
is the one we lost.

- Well, son, that somewhere out there, and fourth
is wasted ... What would we do?

- Now, lie down, each in his own bed.

Leave me to myself, I think that Don Luis has to draw from trouble.

At least I have to ask a favor ... in short, who knows? Goodbye Mom and you, ugly cute face,
until tomorrow .-- And giving a kiss to each, gently threw the room. Took then the limelight
was in the kitchen, went with her to her room, returned with about a large binder ink, pens, paper,
envelopes and three or four books, and placing the best he could, sat at the table.

Until near dawn was taking notes of several books, writing in the
pages very cortitos paragraphs, as extracts, numbers followed by references
and citations.

That seemed paper prepared for that exploited other. As the clock near the stroke of three, the poor
boy's head was already heavy, uncertain view and a beautiful bust, sloping even to the table,
appeared in a cloud of smoke that had been left in the atmosphere Cigarette consumed the room,
whose ash, moved by the breath, hovered over the leaves of books. Still continued to fill pages
for a while, until the stiff Burning feet and forehead, gathered up the papers and put them
in one volume. Immediately took a plieguecillo for a letter, leaving a pensive moment as she
thought, "The write, if not see you tomorrow. " Then, searching for envelopes, and have between
them a larger and heavier, opened it, taking from him two or three letters and a portrait of women,
Mademoiselle de creased Leocadia car, and staring a moment, murmured: "How beautiful is! "Then,
without any noise distracted him, delivered with soul and life to your ideas, plieguecillo seized
and began to write:

Adoro Paz :...»

II

Pepe and Miller met in 1862, when at fourteen or fifteen years were enrolled in the Institute Novitiate
first Latin.

They were both then of little physical, but smart, handsome, ready without excess of mischief,
and without plenty of malice warned. In his feeble body servants Madrid poor homes, the prevailing
understanding of children educated alongside older people, without watching anything, speak
of all free. Pepe was thin, tall, lanky, with hair blond, curly and swirling, who claim to be
an indication of temper. Looking penetrating his eyes seemed to look at things, want to start
teaching them that springs; he was never tired of questions mouth or ears of responses: rather,
impatience showing bartered to interrogate you to listen quietly. Since childhood, unbelief instinctively
rejoice him less than other children with tales of witches, and being grown man, was always on our lips
how? and why? Like children who break toys to see what they have inside, he, following perhaps
a bit vulgar disposition, intended to be given explanation for everything, so, to deny what you
asked, it was necessary, at least simulate an argument, to convince, which was quiet and obedient.
His precocity was not the one consists in the early development of some faculties, but trial
in certain serenity that dominates over impressions, led him to reject what your understanding
is not enough. We had to explain everything, and he understood signal was a charming docility.
Never got a maid with giants amused that swallow raw meat, feats of thieves or enchanted princesses
wonderful adventures; but if you listened to his parents real events, vivid cases, something
that had true then with your eyes wide open, as they teach puppy treat, was still waiting
that the relationship ended, then to questions and more questions about what could not understand.
With a very mocking smile rejected what was repugnant to their childish ideas and Sometimes the
phrase that occurred to him, if not for the purpose, something had by intonation satire.

Miller was more simpleton, smaller, had less difficulty to deceive, and it was also given more
strength and Arriscado games.

The sap of life, as the former had reconcentrated in the brain, had taken in the second form
of physical energy. One was the race of those who think, another race of those who obey. Watching
them play together Pepe was willful, it seemed Miller bend to their whims, but to little are
observed, it was easy to notice that the passivity of this was but the implicit recognition
instinctive superiority of the former. In addition, Miller was very good nature and, as he pleases
it, revealed that, in matters of force was the advantage of you, in everything else Pepe was the lead.
In making wooden swords, cutting boards, run the hammer, jump to step, climb fences and walls to climb,
no competitor was Millán: to make awards condone pranks and avoid scolding, Pepe had special talent.
He knew to wait to ask time, let the first moments of anger, not to irritate the annoyance with
answers and evoke a favorable opportunity, the memory of the offering.

The beginnings of his friendship was a kind of pact against Latin and against this mode to teach
the language of Latium that was abhorrent to Virgil and Cicero.

Formed a mutual aid society to join the lesson, save work to translate, looking together the
meanings in the dictionary and responding, the roll call one by another, until came to gather
together the collection of postage stamps which by then was all boy Madrid. At first only saw
in the classroom or on the faculty of the Institute, which has Street entrance of the Kings,
then found their way to come home, and we walked together, expecting another in the plaza of Santo
Domingo, where he arrived almost at the same time. Millan lived on the square of the Screen;
Pepe on the streets of Buttons: Costanilla that came by the Angels; it down the street from
the scallops, then followed together to the Novitiate, stopping in as many windows had something
they called attention. Winter mornings bought donuts, summer evenings groundnuts, and all-weather
wimp, roe, or carob candies to farthing, but his delight was in sharing a pack of cigarettes, but
never arrived to fight over who spent quarter or so. During the first year kept the boys look
a little cramped raised among skirts and clean language, made no freedom to walk alone down
the street; but soon were opening ears to the malice and having ready for the shameless tongue: mischievousness
entróseles thought as infused knowledge, learned to swear, pegóseles some of that impudence
that is given step, and increase your vocabulary with phrases Achilles turns foul language and
whose meaning may not understand, imagine repeating such things that talking about fat men would
hint of panties. Not for this malearon, and those obscenities and suits that used to each other, but to
anyone they repeated, was like a mud that if I messed up the mouth, did not arrive to stain
the soul.

One morning she missed her class with a professor, went to other guys to play Mico was, and this loophole
was to them a revelation. From then on, when calculated that they could ask the lesson, went
to class, but most of the day, then passing list, slipped, or gum
pricking and staining the tissue, they pretended take bleed from nose
to let them out, denying the decline and hyperbaton Latin and for
older men who invented slander.

Dates from this period in history of his life long series of raids they did in Madrid, and
avoiding going through streets downtown where they could be hand to mouth at home who gave notice
of meeting. So they came to know every inch of few walks, roads and surrounding hills the Court,
leaving a foot you want for these rounds, as gentlemen marching Legend to see land and then had
to be home when Miller's father, and the Pepe's mother noticed that the boys broke shoes as if
they were to stubbornness. The famous Marco Polo in the old, and Livingstone and Stanley these
days, browsers were next to them of more or less. What greater issue to go from the novice to
the Iron Gate stopping at the Green Bridge to call them all! All! the washers of the river?
Why, and the trip to Amaniel Moratalaz or do the exercise for the troops? What about going
to ecstasy to the positions of San Isidro, on the eve of pilgrimage, or go in winter to see
if had frozen the Canal del Lozoya? What never occurred to them was taking sides in stoning
of the Peñuelas, see executed in Camp Guard or deal with the waffle that, game tape and stole money
from the provincials in the Principe Pio Mountains. In contrast, I enjoyed very much to see in the palace
stop or to stand on Santa Cruz listening to quacks rant from the driver's seat of a cab selling
lion to remove grease spots or saying powders having to kill the lone inset stomach, which is
the intestine where gets the food. And the wealth of knowledge they acquired? For some time became
addicted to mechanics, and every day they would see from a cutting put in turntables near North
Station, another season gave the construction, entertainment lift rocks to see new buildings,
then the industry showed fans, watching on the balconies of Rock Street guts of guts, and even
made comments involve manufacturing in Toledo Round matches with strips of cardboard out to dry
the sun. Madrid corner was not not see, from Camp Guard to the Prairie Canal, and from the Source
of Sales Teja to the Holy Spirit, or crossroads where no pass, one of his favorite pleasures
examine places of Madrid described in old novels, swashbuckling to fourth delivery, in which
learned to pieces and badly episodes that made them look at certain sites with a respect between
ridiculous and poetic, taking for granted that Felipe II witnessed the murder of Escobedo from
a portal the street from the Almudena, and commenting, as if they had attended the death of Villamediana
near San Ginés and the adventure in which Quevedo challenged a gentleman who had hit a slap a woman.
What was the difference between the enthusiasm with which they gained that Madrid sets dislocated erudition
and disdain with which they looked at the biographies Latino Cornelius Nepos and selected pieces,
which to them seemed the very essence of insufferable! A class of Geography and History of Spain
liked to go, but in Latin and Religion not cast eyes on them but on rainy days, they did not
know where to take the body. Pressed in April and May, early June and returned home examined
ovantes, with good note and the fright out of the body. In this way, walking a lot and studying
something, but his intelligence easily assimilated what they learned, became a compromise between
sorbedor student text, usually at the end to be useless, and lazy pigra, which degenerates into
rascal.

By 1868, he graduated from high school, and two young lady still casting compliments to the sewers,
and shortly after their families determined to give career. Both parents decided to study laws.
As Don Jose, who was the former Spanish and who had no serious profession but evidenced by academic degree,
greatly influenced the memory of respectability to eyes had the judges and magistrates of Chancery
and hearings as he walked from province to province as a humble employee. He was aware that it
had to cost many sacrifices, but yielded to the temptation to see his son made toga vuelillos
character. For him the law was the least: the lawyer said, could not imagine the guy defending
lawsuits but administering justice. Miller followed the example of Peter, as well as estimated
it did.

The real life of students would not last long. Both had to leave the race just started. The misfortune
was primed in a similar way home and the friendship of children, Founded in games and rides, was
closer bond that came to misfortune.

Miller's father in the slums had a small printing shop where do favor a friend, threw several
issues of a clandestine newspaper. One night he was surprised the police, and closing the
press took the owner to Saladero, where he remained, spending savings payment in a room until
September 29, mobs took him slightly less than success with other political prisoners. What he
could not return justice popular, energetic but late money was lavished on warders and guards
to avoid being disturbed, and the clerk to activate the cause, nor
the parish lost with the closure of printing.

When the poor man was released from prison, consumed his fortune, had to resign an officer as a
typesetter. His years was hit too hard, and a chronic condition had in his eyes got so serious
that it was impossible to continue working.

Millán hesitated about the determination to be followed, "- Father - he said - as I grew in
print, I know the office and everything in it is made. Look for me you work with my wages will be
for two, at least for you, I need some. "
 Mr. Coxe--the
well-known, much-loved Bodley's Librarian of those days--took kindly notice of the girl reader,
and very soon, probably on the recommendation of Mark Pattison, who was a Curator, made me
free of the lower floors, where was the "Spanish room," with its shelves of seventeenth and
eighteenth century volumes in sheepskin or vellum, with their turned-in edges and leathern
strings. Here I might wander at will, absolutely alone, save for the visit of an occasional
librarian from the upper floor, seeking a book. To get to the Spanish Room one had to pass
through the Douce Library, the home of treasures beyond price; on one side half the precious
things of Renaissance printing, French or Italian or Elizabethan; on the other, stands of illuminated
Missals and Hour Books, many of them rich in pictures and flower-work, that shone like jewels
in the golden light of the room. That light was to me something tangible and friendly. It seemed
to be the mingled product of all the delicate browns and yellows and golds in the bindings
of the books, of the brass lattice-work that covered them, and of reflections from the beautiful
stone-work of the Schools Quadrangle outside. It was in these noble surroundings that, with
far too little, I fear, of positive reading, and with much undisciplined wandering from shelf
to shelf and subject to subject, there yet sank deep into me the sense of history, and of that
vast ocean of the recorded past from which the generations rise and into which they fall back.
And that in itself was a great boon--almost, one might say, a training, of a kind.

But a girl of seventeen is not always thinking of books, especially in the Oxford summer term.

In Miss Bretherton, my earliest novel, and in Lady Connie, so far my latest,[1] will be found,
by those who care to look for it, the reflection of that other life of Oxford, the life which
takes its shape, not from age, but from youth, not from the past which created Oxford, but
from the lively, laughing present which every day renews it. For six months of the year Oxford
is a city of young men, for the most part between the ages of eighteen and twenty-two. In my
maiden days it was not also a city of young women, as it is to-day. Women--girls especially--were
comparatively on sufferance. The Heads of Houses were married; the Professors were mostly married;
but married tutors had scarcely begun to be. Only at two seasons of the year was Oxford invaded
by women--by bevies of maidens who came, in early May and middle June, to be made much of by
their brothers and their brothers' friends, to be danced with and flirted with, to know the
joys of coming back on a summer night from Nuneham up the long, fragrant reaches of the lower
river, or of "sitting out" in historic gardens where Philip Sidney or Charles I had passed.

[Footnote 1: These chapters were written before the appearance of Missing in the autumn of 1917.]

At the "eights" and "Commem." the old, old place became a mere background for pretty dresses
and college luncheons and river picnics. The seniors groaned often, as well they might; for
there was little work done in my day in the summer term. But it is perhaps worth while for
any nation to possess such harmless festivals in so beautiful a setting as these Oxford gatherings.
How many of our national festivals are spoiled by ugly and sordid things--betting and drink,
greed and display! Here, all there is to see is a competition of boats, manned by England's
best youth, upon a noble river, flowing, in Virgilian phrase, "under ancient walls"; a city
of romance, given up for a few days to the pleasure of the young, and breathing into that pleasure
her own refining, exalting note; a stately ceremony--the Encaenia--going back to the infancy
of English learning; and the dancing of young men and maidens in Gothic or classical halls
built long ago by the "fathers who begat us." My own recollection of the Oxford summer, the
Oxford river and hay-fields, the dawn on Oxford streets, as one came out from a Commemoration
ball, or the evening under Nuneham woods where the swans on that still water, now, as always,
"float double, swan and shadow"--these things I hope will be with me to the end. To have lived
through them is to have tasted youth and pleasure from a cup as pure, as little alloyed with
baser things, as the high gods allow to mortals.

Let me recall one more experience before I come to the married life which began in 1872--my
first sight of Taine, the great French historian, in the spring of 1871. He had come over at
the invitation of the Curators of the Taylorian Institution to give a series of lectures on
Corneille and Racine. The lectures were arranged immediately after the surrender of Paris to
the German troops, when it might have been hoped that the worst calamities of France were over.
But before M. Taine crossed to England the insurrection of the Commune had broken out, and
while he was actually in Oxford, delivering his six lectures, the terrible news of the last
days of May, the burning of the Tuileries, the Hotel de Ville, and the Cour des Comptes, all
the savagery of the beaten revolution, let loose on Paris itself, came crashing, day by day
and hour by hour, like so many horrible explosions in the heavy air of Europe, still tremulous
with the memories and agonies of recent war.

How well I remember the effect in Oxford!--the newspaper cries in the streets, the fear each
morning as to what new calamities might have fallen on civilization, the intense fellow-feeling
in a community of students and scholars for the students and scholars of France!

When M. Taine arrived, he himself bears witness (see his published Correspondence, Vol. II)
that Oxford could not do enough to show her sympathy with a distinguished Frenchman. He writes
from Oxford on May 25th:

    I have no courage for a letter to-day. I have just heard of the
    horrors of Paris, the burning of the Louvre, the Tuileries, the
    Hotel de Ville, etc. My heart is wrung. I have energy for nothing. I
    cannot go out and see people. I was in the Bodleian when the
    Librarian told me this and showed me the newspapers. In presence of
    such madness and such disasters, they treat a Frenchman here with a
    kind of pitying sympathy.

Oxford residents, indeed, inside and outside the colleges, crowded the first lecture to show
our feeling not only for M. Taine, but for a France wounded and trampled on by her own children.
The few dignified and touching words with which he opened his course, his fine, dark head,
the attractiveness of his subject, the lucidity of his handling of it, made the lecture a great
success; and a few nights afterward at dinner at Balliol I found myself sitting next the great
man. In his published Correspondence there is a letter describing this dinner which shows that
I must have confided in him not a little--as to my Bodleian reading, and the article on the
"Poema del Cid" that I was writing. He confesses, however, that he did his best to draw me--examining
the English girl as a new specimen for his psychological collection. As for me, I can only
perversely remember a passing phrase of his to the effect that there was too much magenta in
the dress of Englishwomen, and too much pepper in the English cuisine. From English cooking--which
showed ill in the Oxford of those days--he suffered, indeed, a good deal. Nor, in spite of
his great literary knowledge of England and English, was his spoken English clear enough to
enable him to grapple with the lodging-house cook. Professor Max Mueller, who had induced him
to give the lectures, and watched over him during his stay, told me that on his first visit
to the historian in his Beaumont Street rooms he found him sitting bewildered before the strangest
of meals. It consisted entirely of a huge beefsteak, served in the unappetizing, slovenly English
way, and--a large plate of buttered toast. Nothing else. "But I ordered bif-tek and pott-a-toes!"
cried the puzzled historian to his visitor!

Another guest of the Master's on that night was Mr. Swinburne, and of him, too, I have a vivid
recollection as he sat opposite to me on the side next the fire, his small lower features and
slender neck overweighted by his thick reddish hair and capacious brow. I could not think why
he seemed so cross and uncomfortable. He was perpetually beckoning to the waiters; then, when
they came, holding peremptory conversation with them; while I from my side of the table could
see them going away, with a whisper or a shrug to each other, like men asked for the impossible.
At last, with a kind of bound, Swinburne leaped from his chair and seized a copy of the Times
which he seemed to have persuaded one of the men to bring him. As he got up I saw that the
fire behind him, and very close to him, must indeed have been burning the very marrow out of
a long-suffering poet. And, alack! in that house without a mistress the small conveniences
of life, such as fire-screens, were often overlooked. The Master did not possess any. In a
pale exasperation Swinburne folded the Times over the back of his chair and sat down again.
Vain was the effort! The room was narrow, the party large, and the servants, pushing by, had
soon dislodged the Times. Again and again did Swinburne in a fury replace it; and was soon
reduced to sitting silent and wild-eyed, his back firmly pressed against the chair and the
newspaper, in a concentrated struggle with fate.

Matthew Arnold was another of the party, and I have a vision of my uncle standing talking with
M. Taine, with whom he then and there made a lasting friendship. The Frenchman was not, I trust,
aware at that moment of the heresies of the English critic who had ventured only a few years
before to speak of "the exaggerated French estimate of Racine," and even to indorse the judgment
of Joubert--"Racine est le Virgile des ignorants"! Otherwise M. Taine might have given an even
sharper edge than he actually did to his remarks, in his letters home, on the critical faculty
of the English. "In all that I read and hear," he says to Madame Taine, "I see nowhere the
fine literary sense which means the gift--or the art--of understanding the souls and passions
of the past." And again, "I have had infinite trouble to-day to make my audience appreciate
some finesses of Racine." There is a note of resigned exasperation in these comments which
reminds me of the passionate feeling of another French critic--Edmond Scherer, Sainte-Beuve's
best successor--ten years later. A propos of some judgment of Matthew Arnold--whom Scherer
delighted in--on Racine, of the same kind as those I have already quoted, the French man of
letters once broke out to me, almost with fury, as we walked together at Versailles. But, after
all, was the Oxford which contained Pater, Pattison, and Bywater, which had nurtured Matthew
Arnold and Swinburne--Swinburne with his wonderful knowledge of the intricacies and subtleties
of the French tongue and the French literature--merely "solide and positif," as Taine declares?
The judgment is, I think, a characteristic judgment of that man of formulas--often so brilliant
and often so mistaken--who, in the famous History of English Literature, taught his English
readers as much by his blunders as by his merits. He provoked us into thinking. And what critic
does more? Is not the whole fraternity like so many successive Penelopes, each unraveling the
web of the one before? The point is that the web should be eternally remade and eternally unraveled.

II

I married Mr. Thomas Humphry Ward, Fellow and Tutor of Brasenose College, on April 6, 1872,
the knot being tied by my father's friend, my grandfather's pupil and biographer, Dean Stanley.
For nine years, till the spring of 1881, we lived in Oxford, in a little house north of the
Parks, in what was then the newest quarter of the University town. They were years, for both
of us, of great happiness and incessant activity. Our children, two daughters and a son, were
born in 1874, 1876, and 1879. We had many friends, all pursuing the same kind of life as ourselves,
and interested in the same kind of things. Nobody under the rank of a Head of a College, except
a very few privileged Professors, possessed as much as a thousand a year. The average income
of the new race of married tutors was not much more than half that sum. Yet we all gave dinner-parties
and furnished our houses with Morris papers, old chests and cabinets, and blue pots. The dinner-parties
were simple and short. At our own early efforts of the kind there certainly was not enough
to eat. But we all improved with time; and on the whole I think we were very fair housekeepers
and competent mothers. Most of us were very anxious to be up-to-date and in the fashion, whether
in esthetics, in housekeeping, or in education. But our fashion was not that of Belgravia or
Mayfair, which, indeed, we scorned! It was the fashion of the movement which sprang from Morris
and Burne-Jones. Liberty stuffs very plain in line, but elaborately "smocked," were greatly
in vogue, and evening dresses, "cut square," or with "Watteau pleats," were generally worn,
and often in conscious protest against the London "low dress," which Oxford--young married
Oxford--thought both ugly and "fast." And when we had donned our Liberty gowns we went out
to dinner, the husband walking, the wife in a bath chair, drawn by an ancient member of an
ancient and close fraternity--the "chairmen" of old Oxford.

Almost immediately opposite to us in the Bradmore Road lived Walter Pater and his sisters.
The exquisiteness of their small house, and the charm of the three people who lived in it,
will never be forgotten by those who knew them well in those days when by the publication of
the Studies in the Renaissance (1873) their author had just become famous. I recall very clearly
the effect of that book, and of the strange and poignant sense of beauty expressed in it; of
its entire aloofness also from the Christian tradition of Oxford, its glorification of the
higher and intenser forms of esthetic pleasure, of "passion" in the intellectual sense--as
against the Christian doctrine of self-denial and renunciation. It was a gospel that both stirred
and scandalized Oxford. The bishop of the diocese thought it worth while to protest. There
was a cry of "Neo-paganism," and various attempts at persecution. The author of the book was
quite unmoved. In those days Walter Pater's mind was still full of revolutionary ferments which
were just as sincere, just as much himself, as that later hesitating and wistful return toward
Christianity, and Christianity of the Catholic type, which is embodied in Marius the Epicurean,
the most beautiful of the spiritual romances of Europe since the Confessions. I can remember
a dinner-party at his house, where a great tumult arose over some abrupt statement of his made
to the High Church wife of a well-known Professor. Tié the face that gives glory.

- Do you know your master?

...

- Know ... I do not know, because I have not said a peep. As you have money, I do not want create
... Do you understand you?

But it malice, because I, nor the bulls go, but I fourth generation estarme provided in the
back talking to her.

- Well, man, well, come on, keep it or leave it here, at the last minute to tell you Mr. Ramón
what to do, and finish it camaraderie.

This small service rendered to Pateta Pepe, I paid for it in spades.

       If it rained suddenly I was the boy ran into the street to fetch
the umbrella keypads: whether to go to the tobacconist for snuff,
back in a tell Jesus to bring coffee from one that was near of printing,
no one walked lighter, and if the coffee had been cold, snuggled up
to the machine steam, not lick the toast or smuggle half sugar, as
did others.

* * * * *

Such was the postman who chose Pepe to ensure their correspondence
with Peace, hiding, of course, he worked at the same press where it
was an apprentice.

- If I ask you to do me a favor, can I count on
you? - Pepe said one day.

- Send what you want - said the future
typesetter.

- The thing has to be between you and me I do not want
anyone to know, understand?

Neither Mr. Miller.

- Neither the stones.

Never failed to secrecy. When Pepe spent two or three days without seeing Paz wrote it, and pathetic,
when leaving work, undertook the walk from the hotel where she, prevented by impatiently waiting
for him behind the glass of the balcony of his room. The range of garden was immediately to
the gate a small oven made of brick and tiled, which served to warm the atmosphere in growing
flowers: Pateta was coming there, watching the time when no servant could see him, and putting his
arm through the bars of gate, depositing the letter tiles in one of those bad affirmed. The next
day collecting the same site of defense, won him so long walks, and especially pleased that
service is such a pack of waterproof Pepe gave him, and sometimes
a coffee half roasted, which made him smacking taste.

X

The affection of the lovers and the plight of Pepe grew up to par. The amount retirement of Don
Jose, the brainchild of his son, the little that earned Leocadia embroidering and what they
tried to save Dona Manuela, everything was invested in medical and pharmacy. So was the winter of
1872 and that sad Christmas Eve dinner, which spoke of the next Tirso
coming and that, after going Millán, and the old man slept, they discussed
children and the mother of which should be made without going to solve
anything, because the common devotion did not produce a single penny
of copper.

The next week the situation worsened with the news that came Tirso:
letter that it should not precede it announced only two days.

Pepe wrote to his girlfriend of this Fortunately, mixing with the
words of love he felt for suspicion that an unknown brother:

Adoro
Paz:

You're right: Although we are almost daily, so few occasions
when we speak freely, that force must be our long and frequent letters.

Things I write you would say to you: what does not stir you read, my words would lead the soul
into force of sincerity. But I understand that there is no remedy, and even fear that these difficulties
not now but other major announcement: believe me, our love must cost a lot tears. Be as romantic
as you want, and is opposite to my way of thinking about in tone bitter about certain things, but I do,
that all the concerns I laugh, I've come to crash against one of the most powerful. The distance
between us would be greater if you were queen and I groom, like the characters in this French
drama were reading the other day. The situation of my family, our poverty, all that hinders me to
make my way in life, I separated from you. Your father has an enviable position: what do you want
to give her daughter a man who has had to abandon the race due to lack of few dollars per
year books and tuition?

But a day of life, life. I do not you ever give up, do not say never leave me, and when are you
who say that we should not meet again, keep silent, because you'll
be right.

It seems to me, mocking and godless, no worries, I come to crash into the obstacle more laughable,
but stronger-against social conventions. Kid yourself, our love must be a very short novel,
ridiculous to count, sad for us, unique we take it seriously. How long will this last? Who will
get tired before? What do you expect? Do I to love? Who ever will not be anxious time, which
will making it increasingly good and beautiful, perhaps richer, and me most wretched and poor.
Do not imagine that I want break our relationships: to know that I want, get a letter in which I
talk about your Sweetheart, hear you ever remember me when you suffer and you're missing something
in the joys of not having me on the side, are things that touch my soul and leave me proud
of myself. If you only knew how you pay them my heart! If you could read my thoughts, guessing
the ideas, hide from the vagaries of my dreams ... But I want, while my love, you're convinced
of my loyalty. Before you hear what your father, I want to be me I tell you. What I can offer future?
No, I will never leave you, and if you become a judicious day or more interested, do not cast curses
of comedy, but I separate them resigned from you, loving you as I do now and keeping the best
of the memory remember the love that I've ever had. Never throw you in the face lack of energy
or weakness constancy. It's so natural you forget me! Fed have done with starting to love, but
then you weigh.

How many times have I told you all this? Do not be surprised, because due to my obsession, to my constant
pondering. We can not conceive the foundation of your love. I love you, so good so beautiful
you are.

But you, why do I want? I miss everything around you, you live in an atmosphere of luxury
almost unknown to me, as I live between deprivation that you can not calculate, and may you
always be outsiders, the least of your whims I could not satisfy many weeks of work, the people
that speak to you have to use derogatory language to for those in situations similar to mine,
went into the house of my parents and you saw these walls, the furniture, I would hesitate whether
to offer money for pity or conceal what they noticed, by pointing to imagine that such a shortage could
offend: and yet you say that best place in your heart is for my baby, and you taught me my letters
with my name deleted with your kisses. Bless you! No, do not leave me, nor have ever trial, if the
must have it be to forget, or think in the future, I do not think, but I love you with all my
heart.

Now, as all you hidden, I want you to know what happens at home. Tirso my brother, the priest,
who have been educated and has always lived far from us, must come
the day after tomorrow.

Ignore the reason for his coming, not a word we know of its purposes, nothing has been said. Recently
time wrote that it might need to make a trip to Madrid, then gave him a sure thing, now announces
that arrives. My parents, of course, rejoice, in your Pepe Leocadia and, if I must be frank,
the feeling that dominates is that of curiosity. We've only seen Tirso once or twice, being very
small, and within hours we're going to have you here. I'll get to the station and you will
know the habits, otherwise it would have to say: "this is." Would funny to come down while the
wagon two young priests! With this, understand that I have reason to be worried. What is the status
of my brother? What happened? If your position is well off, thank goodness, and I do not mean
less work for me, but what if is as poor as we? We will be five instead of four who have to
live poor. Why did he left his parish?

Perhaps come to expect something, but if so, why not checking with our father? You who know my
way of thinking, although not completely, understand that shelters
some fears.

Tirso is a priest, and in this house there is very little devotion. My father never talks about
it; Mom, with care, it is enough; to Leocadia likes going to church when there are large parties,
the absence of other more fun but more expensive than you are banned, and as to me ... Callus:
I do not want you to call me herejote. Anyway, I'm not alone.

Just for today: you can not complain that I write little.

It is with care, because tomorrow, if I can, go see your father if
you have something to send.

Yours always,

PEPE.

"

The letter, in answer to it, found the next day Pateta under unsafe tiles oven stove, said:

"My Dear Pepe:

By God, I ask you not torment me so. I've told you a thousand times. I love you because yes, because
I think you're the best man, and do not ask me more. Do not you usually say My father raised me
like other women? Well, that is. If you had a great fortune, would perhaps easier for us to
be each other, but I would like now could not give even a lint more than affection. So do not
give me grief or tontunas, not ever say to leave you, or that if I leave I will endure. If you
think it is because I want. Am I rich? All the better. Come out and poor, and if not, I want to
I have become, provided that you do not look at any other woman. Do you understand? That's all I
do not forgive ever. We agreed that you will never go again nor do I write nonsense: not deserve
another Name the things you say. My father will not let me marry you, but do you marry another?
That if you do not! What is this answer you Peace. Come on, I do not understand these sublime
sacrifices from you and nonsense. I have not thought, or think, or think you down for ever
in nothing in this world. Do you know? I have read so many books of which has my father, me
Don Quijote agreement says that all the knights wore on his shield a sign. Well, you and I
are two men walking with this sign: love and patience. Like it? Well, shut up and not waste time
on wishes sad. Ensure that people who hopes to despair: no matter. I am content with who I love
very much. I think this has nothing to do with social conventions, with the humility of your
house or your bitterness. If you loved me as I to you, would not require more. Do you think
I will get nun or forcibly married to a prince of a fairy tale? Am I stupid? You'll see, you'll
see, when you know my father as I know you!

Concerning the coming of your brother, I can tell you anything, but I figure that you see everything
black. Until you know what your situation, there is no need to hurry. If you come to expect, you
should dare to ask Dad to recommend him to anyone. Would you be angry if I tell you that your fears
I look stupid? Is it to be bad because it is cured? Undoubtedly, this is what you have been
occurred. In truth, the thing is rare, be so big brothers and do not know, but see how that's
why you have no trouble. And if you suffer, I love you a little more for miss anything.

Goodbye, sad me. Do not ever forget your

PEACE.

"

XI

Tirso Following an ecclesiastical career, was one of those serious things in human life are
resolved quickly and with little intervention concerned.

One Don Tadeo, a friend of his father, who pay a debt of gratitude is first made by of education,
then the future of the boy, was honest and good, but fan reviews political and religious beliefs.
Their excess of faith and realism was honest, and undisputed its influence and prestige among
the supporters of the legitimacy and people from church inhabiting the region. For long periods,
in which he ordered the moderate party, retained Don Tadeo its fate in the Treasury of the
province and was one of many protected Carlist by the Poles, who considered less dangerous to
attract supporters of the Pretender compromise with liberals. Past few years, and governing
a liberal ministry, its peers and subordinates prepared the terrible snare whose disastrous denouement
did head Jose statements. The case made against him or cause gave no result that dismissal, but this
fact, which went unnoticed by the rest of the nation, was important local event. Thereafter,
Don Tadeo was to his enemies become a poor man, and in the eyes of his supporters as a martyr:
he, imagining make good his downfall, he devoted himself entirely to be an instrument of ideas ever
had inclination. The clergy of the capital of the province, which initially was considered
as a victim, then by his strength, he had the strong man, and seeing it as a character willing
to fight with greater freedom than the church, tacitly and insensibly awarded leadership.
He became what we now call a bishop of the Levite, the pair local chief a game. A home were
constantly the canons of the cathedral, the missionaries that often made trips to the city, journalists
and even the Catholic prelate the diocese. According to these people, Don Tadeo charge of education
and future of Tirso was a meritorious act, thought he paid his debt of gratitude to the best
of ever did anyone, especially a child that starting from the jaws
of a parent progresistón and perhaps heretical, it seemed a wonderful
thing.

For his part, Mr. Thaddeus did not attempt to say Jose was a pity he had liberalescas trends.

Tirso
raised a housewife in a village, and could do a goat, a sexton, protected by Don Tadeo, taught
from small to read, write, count and pray, after eight years knew how to help mass, and at
fourteen and her godfather could be used to write letters and run errands of those who do not
trust to servants. In contrast to their parents wrote very little, and when I did, down at the
instigation of Don Tadeo that of its own accord. The friends of the former, seeing educated in
the fear of God, he was treated with special affection and, in return, Tirso became all respect
for those gentlemen, that he was included magnates. Priests, especially, he deserved special consideration.
The talking and trying to close for a few hours before had been officiating in the temple with
rich costumes and taking the people prostrated themselves around, was in his eyes it would
have been for boys increased between soldiers mingle with superiors. Unable to realize the greatness
of the ideas represented by those men, he seduced the position they occupied in the city. Under
a canopy walk, talk from the pulpit and give a hand to kiss, seemed more signs of prestige to ride
music front, sword in hand and battalions behind, so when he told his godfather to study for
the priesthood, his childish imagination received the news with such emotion to joy. What other
career had to give a man dedicated to serve as guide means, through an agent to the interests
and biases of the clergy? A canon was the one who decided to fate of the boy, answering and
Don Tadeo, who consulted on the matter: - "No You could think of nothing better. If the boy is
the chosen and get a luminary of the Church What glory for you! If not ... it will have a career
as good as any. And so it is up to his parents - he added - understand that complain if the guy
you should mark another path, but who can take the wrong purpose so noble? "- Shortly after entering
Tirso in the seminary, where, incidentally, under the influence of those who took him did not
suffer hazing endured by others.

Then they began to pay off the separation from family and lack of Tirso parents who spent the
first years of his life. The voice sounded powerful and compelling self-interest, Don Tadeo saying that
man could do, that your family, however, had no means for it. He had talked so much the fear
of God and so little of his own mother, who praised the idea of ​​being a minister of the
Lord.

The first effect of religious education was to make him understand that his future would correspond
harbored the hope that seeing and envying those who frequented the house of his protector.
The lessons from teachers and books that put him in his hands, he
said the mission of the priest was superior to anything I could imagine
their ambitions.

The most famous of the prophets, the precursor San Juan, had the joy of putting your hands after
on the head of Christ: he, as a priest, he would every day in his, and he consecrate his words.
The angels are continually about God, but what angel has, as he was to enjoy it, the power to
forgive sins? In the womb of the Virgin incarnate the Word, but only once: in the hands of a priest,
by virtue of output sentences from his lips, incarnate the Word every day, and not as deadly, as
he conceived Mary of Nazareth, but impassible, immortal, glorious,
as it is in heaven.

What power and dignity was the same as yours?

Two distinct features of his personality began to develop in him during this time of his life, while
a student at the seminary. His intelligence, late in understanding, became accustomed to admit what
they gave thought, as preferable to the work of thinking for own,
and the ease with which he could continue the race for that protection
to be dispensed, he did little humble.

There was a priest of the brief career, studying only the rudiments of Latin, philosophy impaired
and some moral Jesuit, but continued the race can, soaking Theodicy,
Patrologia, Hermeneutics, canon law and church discipline, up to a
doctorate in Theology in all of which eight years elapsed, after which
the juvenile was ordered.

Happy Day one in which the simple tonsure him a soldier of the militia of Christ! But this that did
not sprout in your soul to the warmth of faith, or hopefully your good intentions with what
could make managing the divine weapons which would be granted, but born of contact used by
the docility with which she received the words heard so often promised, as was the priest, the
supremacy over other men. The priest is an ambassador speaking on behalf of God, and despise is insulting
to whom he sends, he said, taking St. John Chrysostom, repeating this and other similar phrases
over and over again to soak of the nobility of their mission, as did the pagan oracles to those
who aspired refer to your service. Minor orders of porter, lector, exorcist and acolyte seemed full
of charm, in the amount of dignity and by indicating that advertised. Being goalie the house of
God! Read the word of God to the people! Throw the evil enemy outside
the body in which prey!

Able to approach the Holy of Holies! What a great and enviable privileges!

At
last the day of receiving major orders. But they are alive to-day, just
in so far as they have learned the lesson of social pity, and the lesson of a reasonable criticism,
from the men whom Pusey and Liddon and half the bishops condemned and persecuted in the middle
years of the nineteenth century.

When we were living in Oxford, however, this was not exactly the point of view from which the
great figure of Liddon presented itself, to us of the Liberal camp. We were constantly aware
of him, no doubt, as the rival figure to the Master of Balliol, as the arch wire-puller and
ecclesiastical intriguer in University affairs, leading the Church forces with a more than
Roman astuteness. But his great mark was made, of course, by his preaching, and that not so
much by the things said as by the man saying them. Who now would go to Liddon's famous Bamptons,
for all their learning, for a still valid defense of the orthodox doctrine of the Incarnation?
Those wonderful paragraphs of subtle argumentation from which the great preacher emerged, as
triumphantly as Mr. Gladstone from a Gladstonian sentence in a House of Commons debate-- what
remains of them? Liddon wrote of Stanley that he--Stanley--was "more entirely destitute of
the logical faculty" than any educated man he knew. In a sense it was true. But Stanley, if
he had been aware of the criticism, might have replied that, if he lacked logic, Liddon lacked
something much more vital--i.e., the sense of history--and of the relative value of testimony!

Newman, Pusey, Liddon--all three, great schoolmen, arguing from an accepted brief; the man
of genius, the man of a vast industry, intense but futile, the man of captivating presence
and a perfect rhetoric-- history, with its patient burrowings, has surely undermined the work
of all three, sparing only that element in the work of one of them-- Newman--which is the preserving
salt of all literature--i.e., the magic of personality. And some of the most efficacious burrowers
have been their own spiritual children. As was fitting! For the Tractarian movement, with its
appeal to the primitive Church, was in truth, and quite unconsciously, one of the agencies
in a great process of historical inquiry which is still going on, and of which the end is not yet.

But to me, in my twenties, these great names were not merely names or symbols, as they are
to the men and women of the present generation. Newman I had seen in my childhood, walking
about the streets of Edgbaston, and had shrunk from him in a dumb, childish resentment as from
some one whom I understood to be the author of our family misfortunes. In those days, as I
have already recalled in an earlier chapter, the daughters of a "mixed marriage" were brought
up in the mother's faith, and the sons in the father's. I, therefore, as a schoolgirl under
Evangelical influence, was not allowed to make friends with any of my father's Catholic colleagues.
Then, in 1880, twenty years later, Newman came to Oxford, and on Trinity Monday there was a
great gathering at Trinity College, where the Cardinal in his red, a blanched and spiritual
presence, received the homage of a new generation who saw in him a great soul and a great master
of English, and cared little or nothing for the controversies in which he had spent his prime.
As my turn came to shake hands, I recalled my father to him and the Edgbaston days. His face
lit up--almost mischievously. "Are you the little girl I remember seeing sometimes--in the
distance?" he said to me, with a smile and a look that only he and I understood.

On the Sunday preceding that gathering I went to hear his last sermon in the city he had loved
so well, preached at the new Jesuit church in the suburbs; while little more than a mile away,
Bidding Prayer and sermon were going on as usual in the University Church where in his youth,
week by week, he had so deeply stirred the hearts and consciences of men. The sermon in St.
Aloysius's was preached with great difficulty, and was almost incoherent from the physical
weakness of the speaker. Yet who that was present on that Sunday will ever forget the great
ghost that fronted them, the faltering accents, the words from which the life-blood had departed,
yet not the charm?

Then--Pusey! There comes back to me a bowed and uncouth figure, whom one used to see both in
the Cathedral procession on a Sunday, and--rarely-- in the University pulpit. One sermon on
Darwinism, which was preached, if I remember right, in the early 'seventies, remains with me,
as the appearance of some modern Elijah, returning after long silence and exile to protest
against an unbelieving world. Sara Coleridge had years before described Pusey in the pulpit
with a few vivid strokes.

    He has not one of the graces of oratory [she says]. His discourse is
    generally a rhapsody describing with infinite repetition the
    wickedness of sin, the worthlessness of earth, and the blessedness
    of Heaven. He is as still as a statue all the time he is uttering
    it, looks as white as a sheet, and is as monotonous in delivery as
    possible.

Nevertheless, Pusey wielded a spell which is worth much oratory--the spell of a soul dwelling
spiritually on the heights; and a prophet, moreover, may be as monotonous or as incoherent
as he pleases, while the world is still in tune with his message. But in the 'seventies, Oxford,
at least, was no longer in tune with Pusey's message, and the effect of the veteran leader,
trying to come to terms with Darwinism, struggling, that is, with new and stubborn forces he
had no further power to bind, was tragic, or pathetic, as such things must always be. New Puseys
arise in every century. The "sons of authority" will never perish out of the earth. But the
language changes and the argument changes; and perhaps there are none more secretly impatient
with the old prophet than those younger spirits of his own kind who are already stepping into
his shoes.

Far different was the effect of Liddon, in those days, upon us younger folk! The grace and
charm of Liddon's personal presence were as valuable to his party in the 'seventies as that
of Dean Stanley had been to Liberalism at an earlier stage. There was indeed much in common
between the aspect and manner of the two men, though no likeness, in the strict sense, whatever.
But the exquisite delicacy of feature, the brightness of eye, the sensitive play of expression,
were alike in both. Saint Simon says of Fenelon:

    He was well made, pale, with eyes that showered intelligence and
    fire--and with a physiognomy that no one who had seen it once could
    forget. It had both gravity and polish, seriousness and gaiety; it
    spoke equally of the scholar, the bishop, and the grand seigneur,
    and the final impression was one of intelligence, subtlety, grace,
    charm; above all, of dignity. One had to tear oneself from looking
    at him.

Many of those who knew Liddon best could, I think, have adapted this language to him; and there
is much in it that fitted Arthur Stanley.

But the love and gift for managing men was of course a secondary thing in the case of our great
preacher. 

Some time after this little bureaucratic sentimental drama, gave birth again Dona Manuela and while
convalescing, arrived from Madrid for Don José one of the official statements that both disorder
caused him: his transfer to Valladolid, with orders to return immediately unavoidable to take
possession of the new post. Those were problems! He was about to go crazy, but Amezcua his friend
brought him out of the trance. Don Tadeo made himself in charge of the newborn, handing, after
the sponsor, a respected woman, the wife of a settler on land that was there; Don José gave money
for the trip, and when restored Manuela, were dismissed at the foot of the coach which was
to lead them to Castile, he said in his speech, something old and unnatural, but really sincere:
- "Marchen you alone. I do not regret gratitude, but I want to finish build our affection, that
you owe me something. I care the child as if it were mine, and when I ascend to you or leave
you as poor, in short, where appropriate, I Myself will take you where you are, if small, will
be well-bred; and if grown man, educated as God commands, in the physical, made strong lad, moral,
indeed a man. "

Sad was the separation, but the need was law. Journeyed to Valladolid husband and wife, durándoles
long time the bitterness of not getting the little boy with his brothers, but four months was
somewhat consoled, because Dona Manuela again declared that he was on tape. The change of scenery
should take the blame. Before the year, Jose was the father of another creature.

Apart weird way to have to trust a child to foreign hands, and excluding
fertility Manuela, the existence of Don Jose was not such as to weave
with it a novel.

In many cities was, the work consumed his days and nights the coffee and the leisure reading
newspapers, who was very fond, preferring to progressives: the house, perhaps never considered not
certain, always had little or no attachment. Each transfer was auction, and thus could refer
to when old than in many or few years of service had stayed in forty-two beds, past and obeyed by twenty
offices in more than thirty heads, none of whom he could complain. Don José was born to an employee,
his low intelligence not allowed the luxury of having his own ideas, and it lacked character
and initiative exposure to be a martyr for getting to reform routines. Their impressions, usually
little intense, also kept him away from the excitement and apathy: its great virtue was to love honored
to work with that tenacity of the middle reaches the enviable record name. Something, however,
infuriated him: Carlism. To speak against the tiger Maestrazgo, to Don Luis Fernandez de Cordova
on top of Zumalacárregui and the Espartero clouds, he encouraged his eyes, his tongue gained
strength, color words, and did wonders with the memory. He knew few details of battles, fighting,
games and both armies were marching from the first attempts of Don Carlos María Isidro to the
embrace of Vergara, so that, for the months when the action begins this story followed with great
interest the second significant rise of the absolutist, who always called rebels, because the
word seemed to wrap something offensive. As never left home, his main desire was to buy her newspaper
supplements, flyers or extraordinary which at the year 1872 were published in prodigious numbers, and few
friends went to see him knew their favorite conversation was the course of the war, news of
which he commented with memories of the campaign from 33 to 40, and military movements then,
now, by way of his, to be repeated. But what really impressed listening to was that when dealing
with priests who sent items, spoke of them as the other leaders, Full disregarding his priestly
character, but despite his hatred Carlism exploited the occasion to condemn the conduct of the clergy
who did this. Were just judge them as military commanders greater or lesser importance, but not
daring to download its outrage on them because as ministers of peace, leave the field to kill
fellow men. Sometimes phrases that eluded him, implied that the clergy did not want it, but never
out of his mouth insults and aggressive phrases, and if someone said them in his presence, not
only abstained from him chorus, but seeking to twist the spin conversation. People of their
privacy, knowing that this was the foundation were Fates of adjectives hard to talk about bad
priests, and not spare time instead of compliment to any chaplain who was distinguished by
good thing, but with this we Don Jose does not say in a clear its views on the people of the
cloth. Respect a moral, was what the vulgar call a saint. His fidelity to Manuela, even the
time of his youth, bordered on the unbelievable, and the children fell out of pure good. A
his greatest pleasures was that Leocadia you read the newspapers, whose news commented war,
as if to himself, while he rolled the cigarettes he had to smoking the next day. At the moment
unfolded treasures of erudition, referring many Olózaga anecdotes, O'Donnell, Gonzalez Brabo,
Sixto House, Asensio Calvo and Fernandez Rivers. Another of his favorite subjects of conversation
was to explain the cause of the grudge I had the Bourbons, continually citing as one of the
books you most enthusiastic, a booklet published after the Revolution of 68, in whose pages
contained statistics of victims that cost Spain dynasty since Philip V came to reign. Many
Sometimes she said: "What language the numbers! Since 1672, when Charles II was still alive
until 1868, the year that there were more executed for political crimes was 66. "

In 1872 Don José was revolutionary and hardened, and his idol Don Juan Prim "If he were alive
- repeated often - we would not have civil war! "

When he was sprawled on the couch, called Correspondence.

- Let old papers now, Dad, Pepe and Miller bring news.

- Well, my dear, good, but at least read the parts taken from the Gazette, but that does not say
never true.

Leocadia picked up the paper and, approaching the light, read as follows:

"MINISTRY OF THE WAR .-- Extract from telegraphic received in this Ministry up early today:

»Catalonia .-- The Brigadier said yesterday plowing action with all the factions together Gerona
province, which broke, causing many casualties. Lieutenant Colonel Pina attacked his column
to the factions gathered from Cosco, Torres, Baltondra, Ferrer and Moline, that, in number 400
men, were in demand Olsana contribution. The enemy left the village, leaving the troops held 13 prisoners,
including the aforementioned Moline and other officers, causing 11
deaths, appearing in this issue the leader Cosco, and seizing plus
24 rifles and other weapons scratched and effects of war.

       

"Basque Provinces .-- Pursued by the column heading to latro Arana-rebels
commanded ...

* * * * *

(Don Jose, interrupting ):--¡ That's it!

"Latro, latro-fascists!

       

Leocadia continued:

       * * * * *

»..... Led by Soroeta, Goizueta fell last night from some villages
of Mount Oyarzun.

In the province of Vizcaya, the latest news, there are no more than scattered Maidagan heading.
In the rest of the peninsula no new extraordinary happens. "

* * * * *

Suddenly sounded on the door of the house two knocks.

- There's your brother down, daughter, down.

Leocadia took the key off the dresser, and left without rushing. They heard little in the step footsteps
drowned out by laughter and Leocadia entered with two men in the
room young, but of a different type.

Pepe was the man that his sister Leocadia a woman, a Madrid purebred, pale, intelligent eyes,
medium height, easy word and movement fast: the other was his friend
Miller, who made love to Leocadia.

Pepe gentleman dressed like poor: Millán as being clean worker who takes time to groom him.
The first closer to his father, kissed him as a child could do, and the second, before greeting,
glanced at the door of the hall where he had gone again with Leocadia
two or three packages that brought his brother.

- You see, Dad? -
Pepe said .-- When I come alone, take that half hour of opening, today,
as I knew it came with me has to jump down the ladder.

Millán, interrupting him, approached the table and began to talk to
Don Jose, avoid the jokes of your friend:

- You will know that the
items have been dissolved Girona ... The trouble is that the Baztán
have into two heads with a hundred men, and linked to another item,
about Estella, walk and in the vicinity of Pamplona.

- The Gazette
says nothing, at least not copy Correspondence.

- But the government
knows it, and the Ministry of War do not talk about something else.

Brother a home typesetter is a clerk in the Directorate of Infantry,
where he heard it.

- And for the Mastership, is there nothing?

-
Still ...

- Since there are an iron hand, we are lost.

- That does
not, the war may last as long as another, but Madrid do not come.

-
The dinner is coming next - "Dona Manuela, entering with a pan in
his hands.

In a cigarette paper could have made the menu that poor people: the
classic red seabream, cabbage salad, almond milk and desserts brought
by Pepe, there was no more.

The bottle Wheel was designed to Don Jose, who would give a couple
of drinks to Millán.

The other agreed say that white wine annoyed them a lot. Shortly afterwards it was not the rasp
bream; salad, or a leaf.

- Go to the health of those legs - said Millán, draining a drink and glancing at Leocadia.

- No re-run as they ran!

- All returns, Don José, everything you see you, to the Carlist.

Doña Manuela, bite still had not heard praise for his stew, he began to thunder against the policy.

-
Do not know about anything else.

Then let them come. Worse than these players now not be.

- Shut up, woman. You who know! It would be a horror. You - the old man said, addressing the
boys - have no idea what they did last time. Lasted seven years, people could not leave the
cities, women and children were shot to ... It would be a shame ...
now the army is well armed and better dressed.

In the other war fought with guns piston and spark up, and wore pants in winter thread.

Leocadia rose to fetch the milk of almonds, and then bringing back the bowl.

- And all this in defense of religion - Miller said mockingly.

- Religion has nothing to do with it, my children. When you took up arms against Fernando VII, no one
had abused the religion during the war, the battalions Christines spent more time on ranches
Masses, the Liberals were almost more devout than the absolutists; no one had messed with the
Church, and of course that you have already reached you, so San Carlos
de la Rapita not had anything to do with religion.

There are no more but four provinces want to impose the law in Spain. If I lived Don Juan!
That one was a man! Good is the almond milk!

Anyway, we had dinner. Another Christmas Eve! Who knows from here to the next! ...

- The spend together like this - said Millán - perhaps more united,
- saying which looked Leocadia, who lowered his eyes, between dodge
and prudish.

- Above all, we will go through Tirso - Dona Manuela
said .-- It is time for us to live together.

Come see him now, will soon be like giving birth to a son of thirty-four years.

- Have you always lived apart?

- Almost all life.

We've already told you how was it to leave him with Don Tadeo.

What we to do? We run more provinces of the map. Don Tadeo it took a lot of love: that yes!
There would have been treated better if only his son. The only thing I felt bad, was it of cure
him, but I could not help. If only he were a priest or as Torrero Muñoz Venegas and Martin
Velasco ...

- Calle you, by God, Don José.

Cures "liberal? They are the worst!

Pepe, Leocadia and her mother were silent, feeling there was talk of that, because Don Jose such
cases, just getting in a mood of all the devils, but Miller, who from time back had a desire
to know the history of the case, was gradually forcing the old to the count.

- This gift would be delivered Tadeo people from church ...

- Cabalito: it was a terrific subject, but those who eat the saints, and spun the business with
great finesse. Tirso took a liking to, that's undeniable. I think the first thing that occurred
to him was to give race, without looking at what, to make man, then his ideas, his relationships
... When I moved from Granada to Zamora, made the trip with the boy just so I could see; already
had twelve years that I thanked him very much, because he had seen only two escapes cortísimas
we did that and I from Valladolid.

We wanted to pick up the boy then, Zamora, but on the one hand, and
understand the considerations of how much we had to don Thaddeus ...
he insisted that he was not take off, said Tirso was so good that
he had taken so much love ... In addition, our situation was not good,
that is, never has been, We could never save anything.

Now, if it were not for retirement, I do not know how we would live.

In order to conclude, when we wrote that Don Tadeo Tirso wanted to become a priest, had already
put in the seminar.

What do we do? Although I had more energy than a lion ... then: Stand it! Anyone Arrisca to
fight with people from church! ...
Coming here was silent, fearful that it was the language.

- But
he had a vocation?

Pepe, who had long since showed signs of impatience,
could not hold back and broke it by saying between mocking and angry:

-
Vocation! Vocation! Who knows what that is? May feel tired of living
man and thinking, but a boy of sixteen years, as was Tirso then, when
he entered the seminary, Understand how to devote to God? Both he and J.R.G. were admirable letter- writers,
and a volume of their correspondence--much of it already published separately--if it could
be put together--like that of Flaubert and George Sand--would make excellent reading for a
future generation. In 1877 and 1878, when I was plunged in the history of West-Gothic Kings,
I had many letters from Mr. Freeman, and never were letters about grave matters less grave.
Take this outburst about a lady who had sent him some historical work to look at. He greatly
liked and admired the lady; but her work drove him wild. "I never saw anything like it for
missing the point of everything.... Then she has no notion of putting a sentence together,
so that she said some things which I fancy she did not mean to say--as that 'the beloved Queen
Louisa of Prussia' was the mother of M. Thiers. When she said that the Duke of Orleans's horses
ran away, 'leaving two infant sons,' it may have been so: I have no evidence either way."

Again, "I am going to send you the Spanish part of my Historical Geography. It will be very
bad, but--when I don't know a thing I believe I generally know that I don't know it, and so
manage to wrap it up in some vague phrase which, if not right, may at least not be wrong. Thus
I have always held that the nursery account of Henry VIII--

  "'And Henry the Eighth was as fat as a pig--'

"is to be preferred to Froude's version. For, though certainly an inadequate account of the
reign, it is true as far as it goes."

Once, certainly, we stayed at Somerleaze, and I retain the impression of a very busy, human,
energetic man of letters, a good Churchman, and a good citizen, brimful of likes and dislikes,
and waving his red beard often as a flag of battle in many a hot skirmish, especially with
J.R.G., but always warm-hearted and generally placable--except in the case of James Anthony
Froude. The feud between Freeman and Froude was, of course, a standing dish in the educated
world of half a century ago. It may be argued that the Muse of History has not decided the
quarrel quite according to justice; that Clio has shown herself something of a jade in the
matter, as easily influenced by fair externals as a certain Helen was long ago. How many people
now read the Norman Conquest-- except the few scholars who devote themselves to the same period?
Whereas Froude's History, with all its sins, lives, and in my belief will long live, because
the man who wrote it was a writer and understood his art.

Of Bishop Stubbs, the greatest historical name surely in the England of the last half of the
nineteenth century, I did not personally see much while we lived in Oxford and he was Regius
Professor. He had no gifts-- it was his chief weakness as a teacher--for creating a young school
around him, setting one man to work on this job, and another on that, as has been done with
great success in many instances abroad. He was too reserved, too critical, perhaps too sensitive.
But he stood as a great influence in the background, felt if not seen. A word of praise from
him meant everything; a word of condemnation, in his own subjects, settled the matter. I remember
well, after I had written a number of articles on early Spanish Kings and Bishops, for a historical
Dictionary, and they were already in proof, how on my daily visits to the Bodleian I began
to be puzzled by the fact that some of the very obscure books I had been using were "out" when
I wanted them, or had been abstracted from my table by one of the sub-librarians. Joannes Biclarensis--he
was missing! Who in the world could want that obscure chronicle of an obscure period but myself?
I began to envisage some hungry German Privatdozent, on his holiday, raiding my poor little
subject, and my books, with a view to his Doctor's thesis. Then one morning, as I went in,
I came across Doctor Stubbs, with an ancient and portly volume under his arm. Joannes Biclarensis
himself!--I knew it at once. The Professor gave me a friendly nod, and I saw a twinkle in his
eye as we passed. Going to my desk, I found another volume gone--this time the Acts of the
Councils of Toledo. So far as I knew, not the most ardent Churchman in Oxford felt at that
time any absorbing interest in the Councils of Toledo. At any rate, I had been left in undisturbed
possession of them for months. Evidently something was happening, and I sat down to my work
in bewilderment.

Then, on my way home, I ran into a fellow-worker for the Dictionary--a well-known don and history
tutor. "Do you know what's happened?" he said, in excitement. "Stubbs has been going through
our work! The Editor wanted his imprimatur before the final printing. Can't expect anybody
but Stubbs to know all these things! My books are gone, too." We walked up to the Parks together
in a common anxiety, like a couple of school-boys in for Smalls. Then in a few days the tension
was over; my books were on my desk again; the Professor stopped me in the Broad with a smile,
and the remark that Joannes Biclarensis was really quite an interesting fellow, and I received
a very friendly letter from the Editor of the Dictionary.

And perhaps I may be allowed, after these forty years, one more recollection, though I am afraid
a proper reticence would suppress it! A little later "Mr. Creighton" came to visit us, after
his immigration to Embleton and the north; and I timidly gave him some lives of West-Gothic
Kings and Bishops to read. He read them--they were very long and terribly minute--and put down
the proofs, without saying much. Then he walked down to Oxford with my husband, and sent me
back a message by him: "Tell M. to go on. There is nobody but Stubbs doing such work in Oxford
now." The thrill of pride and delight such words gave me may be imagined. But there were already
causes at work why I should not "go on."

I shall have more to say presently about the work on the origins of modern Spain. It was the
only thorough "discipline" I ever had; it lasted about two years--years of incessant, arduous
work, and it led directly to the writing of Robert Elsmere. But before and after, how full
life was of other things! The joys of one's new home, of the children that began to patter
about it, of every bit of furniture and blue pot it contained, each representing some happy
chasse or special earning--of its garden of half an acre, where I used to feel as Hawthorne
felt in the garden of the Concord Manse--amazement that Nature should take the trouble to produce
things as big as vegetable marrows, or as surprising as scarlet runners that topped one's head,
just that we might own and eat them. Then the life of the University town, with all those marked
antagonisms I have described, those intellectual and religious movements, that were like the
meeting currents of rivers in a lake; and the pleasure of new friendships, where everybody
was equal, nobody was rich, and the intellectual average was naturally high. In those days,
too, a small group of women of whom I was one were laying the foundations of the whole system
of women's education in Oxford. Mrs. Creighton and I, with Mrs. Max Mueller, were the secretaries
and founders of the first organized series of lectures for women in the University town; I
was the first secretary of Somerville Hall, and it fell to me, by chance, to suggest the name
of the future college. My friends and I were all on fire for women's education, including women's
medical education, and very emulous of Cambridge, where the movement was already far advanced.

But hardly any of us were at all on fire for woman suffrage, wherein the Oxford educational
movement differed greatly from the Cambridge movement. The majority, certainly, of the group
to which I belonged at Oxford were at that time persuaded that the development of women's power
in the State--or rather, in such a state as England, with its far- reaching and Imperial obligations,
resting ultimately on the sanction of war--should be on lines of its own. We believed that
growth through Local Government, and perhaps through some special machinery for bringing the
wishes and influence of women of all classes to bear on Parliament, other than the Parliamentary
vote, was the real line of progress. However, I shall return to this subject on some future
occasion, in connection with the intensified suffragist campaign which began about ten years
ago (1907-08) and in which I took some part. I will only note here my first acquaintance with
Mrs. Fawcett. I see her so clearly as a fresh, picturesque figure--in a green silk dress and
a necklace of amber beads, when she came down to Oxford in the mid-'seventies to give a course
of lectures in the series that Mrs. Creighton and I were organizing, and I remember well the
atmosphere of sympathy and admiration which surrounded her as she spoke to an audience in which
many of us were well acquainted with the heroic story of Mr. Fawcett's blindness, and of the
part played by his wife in enabling him to continue his economic and Parliamentary work.

But life then was not all lectures!--nor was it all Oxford. There were vacations, and vacations
generally meant for us some weeks, at least, of travel, even when pence were fewest. The Christmas
vacation of 1874 we were in Paris. The weather was bitter, and we were lodged, for cheapness'
sake, in an old-fashioned hotel, where the high canopied beds with their mountainous duvets
were very difficult to wake up in on a cold morning. But in spite of snow and sleet we filled
our days to the brim. We took with us some introductions from Oxford--to Madame Mohl, the Renans,
the Gaston Parises, the Boutmys, the Ribots, and, from my Uncle Matthew, to the Scherers at
Versailles. Monsieur Taine was already known to us, and it was at their house, on one of Madame
Taine's Thursdays, that I first heard French conversation at its best. There was a young man
there, dark-eyed, dark-haired, to whom I listened--not always able to follow the rapid French
in which he and two other men were discussing some literary matter of the moment, but conscious,
for the first time, of what the conversation of intellectual equals might be, if it were always
practised as the French are trained to practise it from their mother's milk, by the influence
of a long tradition. The young man was M. Paul Bourget, who had not yet begun to write novels,
while his literary and philosophical essays seemed rather to mark him out as the disciple of
M. Taine than as the Catholic protagonist he was soon to become. M. Bourget did not then speak
English, and my French conversation, which had been wholly learned from books, had a way at
that time--and, alack! has still--of breaking down under me, just as one reached the thing
one really wanted to say. So that I did not attempt to do more than listen. But I seem to remember
that those with whom he talked were M. Francis Charmes, then a writer on the staff of the Debats,
and afterward the editor of the Revue des deux Mondes in succession to M. Brunetiere; and M.
Gaston Paris, the brilliant head of French philology at the College de France. What struck
me then, and through all the new experiences and new acquaintanceships of our Christmas fortnight,
was that strenuous and passionate intensity of the French temper, which foreign nations so
easily lose sight of, but which, in truth, is as much part of the French nature as their gaiety,
or as what seems to us their frivolity. The war of 1870, the Commune, were but three years
behind them. Germany had torn from them Alsace-Lorraine; she had occupied Paris; and their
own Jacobins had ruined and burned what even Germany had spared. In the minds of the intellectual
class there lay deep, on the one hand, a determination to rebuild France; on the other, to
avenge her defeat. The blackened ruins of the Tuileries and of the Cour des Comptes still disfigured
a city which grimly kept them there as a warning against anarchy; while the statue of the Ville
de Strasbourg in the Place de la Concorde had worn for three years the funeral garlands, which,
as France confidently hopes, the peace that will end this war will, after nearly half a century,
give way once more to the rejoicing tricolor. At the same time reconstruction was everywhere
beginning--especially in the field of education. The corrupt, political influence of the Empire,
which had used the whole educational system of the country for the purpose of keeping itself
and its supporters in power, was at an end. The recognized "Ecole Normale" was becoming a source
of moral and mental strength among thousands of young men and women; and the "Ecole des Sciences
politiques," the joint work of Taine, Renan, and M. Boutmy, its first director, was laying
foundations whereof the results are to be seen conspicuously to-day, in French character, French
resource, French patience, French science, as this hideous war has revealed them.

I remember an illuminating talk with M. Renan himself on this subject during our visit. We
had never yet seen him, and we carried an introduction to him from Max Mueller, our neighbor
and friend in Oxford. We found him alone, in a small working-room crowded with books, at the
College de France. Madame Renan was away, and he had abandoned his large library for something
more easily warmed. My first sight of him was something of a shock--of the large, ungainly
figure, the genial face with its spreading cheeks and humorous eyes, the big head with its
scanty locks of hair. I think he felt an amused and kindly interest in the two young folk from
Oxford who had come as pilgrims to his shrine, and, realizing that our French was not fluent
and our shyness great, he filled up the time--and the gaps--by a monologue, lit up by many
touches of Renanesque humor, on the situation in France.

First, as to literature--"No, we have no genius, no poets or writers of the first rank just
now--at least so it seems to me. But we work--nous travaillons beaucoup! Ce sera noire salut."
It was the same as to politics. He had no illusions and few admirations. "The Chamber is full
of mediocrities. We are governed by avocats and pharmaciens. But at least Ils ne feront pas
la guerre!"

He smiled, but there was that in the smile and the gesture which showed the smart within; from
which not even his scholar's philosophy, with its ideal of a world of cosmopolitan science,
could protect him. At that moment he was inclined to despair of his country. The mad adventure
of the Commune had gone deep into his soul, and there were still a good many pacifying years
to run, before he could talk of his life as "cette charmante promenade a travers la realite"--for
which, with all it had contained of bad and good, he yet thanked the Gods. At that time he
was fifty-one; he had just published L'Antichrist, the most brilliant of all the volumes of
the "Origines"; and he was not yet a member of the French Academy.

I turn to a few other impressions from that distant time. One night we were in the Theatre
Francais, and Racine's "Phedre" was to be given. I at least had never been in the Maison de
Moliere before, and in such matters as acting I possessed, at twenty-three, only a very raw
and country-cousinish judgment. There had been a certain amount of talk in Oxford of a new
and remarkable French actress, but neither of us had really any idea of what was before us.
Then the play began. And before the first act was over we were sitting, bent forward, gazing
at the stage in an intense and concentrated excitement such as I can scarcely remember ever
feeling again, except perhaps when the same actress played "Hernani" in London for the first
time in 1884. Sarah Bernhardt was then--December, 1874--in the first full tide of her success.
She was of a ghostly and willowy slenderness. Each of the great speeches seemed actually to
rend the delicate frame. When she fell back after one of them you felt an actual physical terror
lest there should not be enough life left in the slight, dying woman to let her speak again.
And you craved for yet more and more of the voix d'or which rang in one's ears as the frail
yet exquisite instrument of a mighty music. Never before had it been brought home to me what
dramatic art might be, or the power of the French Alexandrine. And never did I come so near
quarreling with "Uncle Matt" as when, on our return, after having heard my say about the genius
of Sarah Bernhardt, he patted my hand indulgently with the remark, "But, my dear child, you
see, you never saw Rachel!"

As we listened to Sarah Bernhardt we were watching the outset of a great career which had still
some forty years to run. On another evening we made acquaintance with a little old woman who
had been born in the first year of the Terror, who had spent her first youth in the salon of
Madame Recamier, valued there, above all, for her difficult success in drawing a smile from
that old and melancholy genius, Chateaubriand; and had since held a salon of her own, which
deserves a special place in the history of salons. For it was held, according to the French
tradition, and in Paris, by an Englishwoman. It was, I think, Max Mueller who gave us an introduction
to Madame Mohl. She sent us an invitation to one of her Friday evenings, and we duly mounted
to the top of the old house in the Rue du Bac which she made famous for so long. As we entered
the room I saw a small disheveled figure, gray-headed, crouching beside a grate, with a kettle
in her hand. It was Madame Mohl--then eighty- one--who was trying to make the fire burn. She
just raised herself to greet us, with a swift investigating glance; and then returned to her
task of making the tea, in which I endeavored to help her. But she did not like to be helped,
and I soon subsided into my usual listening and watching, which, perhaps, for one who at that
time was singularly immature in all social respects, was the best policy. I have studied both the case!

- Here are you - Pepe said handing him the pages.

- Sit you a moment.

The senator began reading to himself, and his countenance was taking an indefinable expression,
struggling to hide the emotion and could not. He must feel encouraged her eyes, and to disguise
one sign of welcome, frowned, but muttering, "yeah, yeah, here I
see something new."

Then he fell rows, but each time it was more impossible to suppress
the joy and, fearing that they knew him in the face, stopped reading.

-
Enough, I have enough, really appreciate it, take advantage of something,
yes sir, if you will take advantage!

Pepe hardly hear him. Did lose its cunning? Peace Does not appear there?

- I want you noted - said to prolong the interview - I've tried to gather all what was said
at the beginning of the project for years, here's what Gonzalez Brabo proposed ... this is de
Bravo Murillo, Asensio Calvo these notes ...

Don Luis had to stop
reading each page seemed to him a ticket to immortality.

Boy, talk! Estimated man's only consistent, would emerge the speaker.

They heard footsteps in this, and looked Peace to the office door,
his father-time repeated:

- Thank you, thank you very much.

- I
do not know what it is - then she said Pepe, - but I also I give to
you

Don Luis took back the papers, which appeared to be a magnet
for hands and in the meantime the boys looked at each other in silence.

Pepe braved the gaze frankly Peace.

Much at that moment would have to be able to say it with your eyes all the pretty vain ideas,
absurd ambitions that had nested in his thinking, no streets, nothing, fear, hope and poverty!
Peace had to hide his joy at not appear desapudorada, but did not pout of disgust or even the cute
wrinkled brow. For none of them was already secretly attraction that they practiced on each other.

-
Yes, sir, for this can take advantage - muttered Don Luis.

Pepe, who refused to leave without their top goals, he tried to prolong
the visit and looking into the room of books, said:

- Here I conclude
to fix something I forgot last days.

- Do what you like.

Pepe went on to the next room, and Don Luis, unable to contain, flipped
through the pages again.

Peace left a few minutes elapse, and then also went to the room immediately.

Pepe, Without hesitation, he approached her and whispered, with a
tone of sincerity, said:

- Mademoiselle, this time it has brought
me the chance, but cunning, but if my presence the angry, I will not
ever see it you say you do not need a single word: it may be sufficient
their silence ... We never see again.

Peace did not open his mouth, and yet, in the eyes of Pepe looked
all that their soul.

The girl, rich girl, heard that without a movement of anger, prey a delicious confusion: he
then offered her hand and she quickly shook between his own feeling at the same time as the
reddened face.

No sentence all languages ​​of the earth had been as eloquent as he blushed. Immediately left
the office without speaking. When he left, Peace ran to his room, approached to a balcony and,
lifting the curtain a bit, saw him disappear behind the tree trunks the ride.

The gold particle was attached to a grain of sand: the stream of life had to drag together ever
since.

Don Luis remained in the office staring at the pages: "If this is
a speech! - Muttered .-- If no more to add at the beginning: Gentlemen,
at the end: I said!

Ah! yes, and some padding; few paragraphs ... my result, loyalty to the government, freedom, love of
institutions! "

It was settled, the court reporters have to work on his account.

VIII

Don Luis finally spoke. After many years of silent parliamentary life, the Journal Session
printed his name, not only in the common type used for voting, but also in bold letters that
were obvious, saying, THE LORD attacked: I ask the floor. When he read his name in the extracts
from newspapers, still felt shivers of fear. At the start of his speech the hall was nearly full,
by the novelty of listening to a senator that ceased to be monosyllabic: After many listeners
took to the aisles, but as peroration was short, there remain numerous enough not to make
bad role. In the bank two ministers remained blue. Pepe was heard from the bottom of a platform:
the data notes and quotes from its pages came intact from the lips of Don Luis, who only put
a short paragraph at the beginning of their harvest to ask for leniency, simulating the two hundred
thousand like he had heard before, also adding the odd phrase to praise the importance of what
he was saying. When he forgot some of the many who committed to memory, threw hand copied the pages
that brought in his own handwriting. Towards the conclusion wanted to expand on the original
considerations, but he was pierced in the throat and ended continued by stating that no more attention
not to disturb the House. He had a good have found a real triumph over the material gathered by
Pepe, Don Luis was well and nothing else. At the end of some applause rang in most banks, and everybody
said he had been discreet, that it represented great knowledge of the matter. A He congratulated
the Minister and this will offset the disappointment that gave newspapers opposition saying
only that Mr. Agreda had consumed a shift in pro. In contrast, eat when they went to see many
friends and after her daughter was at the concert Retiro, round and round like a bullfighter
who has gotten afternoon arm Fortunately in good thrust.

At home I leave Paz said:

- Say, Daddy, have you served the papers that brought you the boy
of the Senate?

- Something, something, the guy is not stupid ...
have good will and seems ready.

- Yes, eh?

Peace did not know how to suggest to his father the idea that somehow
use of services Pepe, he realized that Don Luis did not need secretary
or clerk.

In fact, his malice was late, the gratified vanity was ahead of impatient love. He was already
thinking in tackling other issues before the close of the Courts. In addition, fortune favored
lovers, because the voters of Don Luis, accustomed to his long silence, shot a cloud of congratulatory
telegrams, after the telegraph used mail and, as was necessary to answer such luck, Senator Pepe
determined to employ as scribe.

One morning he was not caught Don Luis at home, and became part of the books, immediate the
office: Peace appeared soon after, hiding her embarrassment, and
pretending to be distracted.

Until then only changing a few sentences, but without a formal conversation: therefore, the first
time I spoke at home, the interview would matter, pleasing given the complicity established
between them. Peace, after greeting him, dared not to deploy the lips: no experience in such ailments,
but her female instinct I said that it was she who should speak first, and building under
the left balcony spend a few moments. Pepe got up from his seat and came to it, to distance
accused greater respect than impatience, said:

- Miss, my first duty is to beg you to forgive me. I confess that vanity has blinded me. I
expect no leniency do not deserve.

What I have done is wrong, I know, and yet, I could not restrain myself. Why lie, if you need to
understand what happens in my soul?

She wanted to talk and Pepe made a move to let him continue.

- Before you tell me one word, I want to be entirely frank with you. My position, my life, my poverty,
and who knows if my education, I am separated from you I've made the imprudence of leaving poke
in the eye what I felt to know you .. Then I thought I saw that You showed no anger, because maybe
you seem too cruel contempt, and it has come this situation, where there is only one culprit:
my vanity.

I dint fix my error of openness.

This language gave wings to the living character of Peace.

- Yes, do you have reason, I understand that I am wrong, I have not come today because this room,
but is I'm as loyal as you. You want to believe in his sincerity, I have the right I demand that
you cross out of flirtatious or you think that I can have fun at humiliating.

- Think what you say, miss. It is too good to pay you with scorn and contempt the feeling aroused
in me, but you do not inspire in me feels pity, but the impulses
of his own heart, do not forget to keep listening to you now is getting
... What another man would be a game with me would be a mockery.

She, restless, smiled, looking like someone suggests that perhaps
did not expect to hear much, and the words stopped him.

- Jesus,
my God!

How you ask! Before so humble, and now so demanding!

- Demanding?

- Yes, you bet I would say get commitment.

He paused, Peace, pretending to be distracted away two or three steps
and looking back to Pepe, continued

- It should be enough for you
see I'm not angry ...

- Then, "you even knowing what is happening
in my heart allows me to follow you coming to this house?

- Do not
return you to tell me about their poverty?

I do not know what it is, but when you say something that may humiliate, it seems that I am humbled
.-- And he wanted to leave.

- No, miss, you hear me a moment.

If you know understand what your indulgence for me!

       Without letting end, went to the office door and very quietly, with
a charming pout, repeat again:

- Demanding, demanding.

What more could you want? "I'm not angry" - he said - "not you again to talk about his poverty.
"Pretender clarity would be folly.

* * * * *

After two months, their dialogue was now very different, that when the trail opens estimate, Love
widens and paves the way soon. Peace and shortness or felt or expressed Pepe founded suspicion
that what he was offered other than the future of each: phrases were changed protests of affection,
promise of firmness, the whole repertoire monotonous and vulgar lovers,
always romantic and exaggerated, but eternally delightful.

Mediated circumstance, however, between them, changing their character.

She, despite their resiliency, afraid to mortify the susceptibility
of Pepe, was treated with consideration that no one else had saved,
and he was cold, unbelieving, mocking, always ready to sweeten reality
with his good humor, was primarily reflective and serious peace, as
if you scare that loving intimacy which, in their view, could not
resist the time or would crash against the harshness of life.

Do not be so easy to get as often as they wish, eventually establish for private use, a postal
service. The initiative was Pepe, the postman deserve chapter.

IX

In the press of Miller was a boy, a mixture of apprentice and orderly, who was called pathetic.
He said his name was Pepe Maldonado, but retained no memory of his family. No one knew his origin,
nor himself. Just remember to have lived in Puerta de Moros, gathered at the home of a greengrocer,
aunt, which they considered very young, do not ever talked to their parents.

One morning the old woman, who used to linger in the municipal license fee of the post pulse,
was taken to prevent and, as a result, took such hot flashes, who died at few hours, coming to
be the guy on the street, no more under God, with mischief by instinct and ignorance guide.
A couple from the neighborhood gave him shelter during five weeks, but this charity was formerly
assistant desire to have intended to favor him; for when the wife have forced up the river
a bag of clothes over their forces, the husband, who was saddler, he turned green or purple at
the shoulders, forcing him to dye cattails in a yard that looked like tanks. When they ate, if
left over was for Pepe, if there was no remains, thanks to give him
bread to scrape the pot of stew, so the hunger and a fleece given
to him to get into the tub of green that had to be purple try the
patience of the boy.

He escaped, and that was the most troubled period of his life. Scrub in taverns, where he had
tips for wages, helping to cool to shout hardware and collect and sell butts, sleeping in doorways:
the existence led for about a few months, dirty, barefoot, shabby, hungry and flaunting and
between the tears of the golden chest camiseja strong as an antique bronze. Only There were two
things do not you try to look for a living: not called charity or stolen.

Happened to spend a morning down the street from Maldonado, donuts factory had a acquaintance of the
deceased greengrocer, who asked him how he lived buñolero, said the boy worse, and inspire so sorry
knew that there was looking after the retail sale, without promise of payment other than food
and somewhere to sleep. The saddler not heard from again him. The guys who previously had the
buñolero of dependents, which again, which less, they all stolen; Pepe Maldonado was flawless
fidelity. Before dawn, his master and apprentice sobaban mass disposed in the basin and then
fried with unusual speed balls, cakes and cucumber: Pepe, meanwhile, managed the watchmen, mixing
some flour to sprinkle sugar, scrubbing vessel, put everything in place and, when opening the store,
placed upright in the door, dispatched young and old donuts, greasy forming the zinc surface
table covering a lot of quarters and eighths of the Moorish, which left him the dirty contact
mildew-stained fingers. Or eaten a donut or retracted a farthing. No one taught mathematics, however,
to the returns of the currency was smarter than a money changer. If Eve were fritters, dispatches
the first, the average serving of liquor, assumed that the throat when the customer was insensitive,
given the cheap price how expensive, and for constant favoring the house was to find fresh pasta,
fried smoking, which had not yet fallen bubbles of boiling oil. The master was fond with him
in such a degree that he began to treat him as a child and until that was determined by evening
school, where, in a few months, learned to read, write and count. Year to be in the bun shop,
the daughter of the master, who was a girl of fourteen saladísima, ill with smallpox and, strange
to the common people, gifted in such cases as valuable as ignorance, neighbors, acquaintances
and friends left the little patient and their parents complete abandonment. The girl was going to
sweep and mop disappeared without asking a peak that had the wages, and the lad who helped knead and
fry cowardly fired: Pepe remained only there day and night, without going to play with neighborhood
kids or otherwise engage in caring the girl. Guided very clear understanding, was set well
in many disorders suffered, to say them to the doctor, then gave the footage to the recipe, with
due intervals, wrapping up soon as a girl on her wrist. When, for entering the disease the period
of desquamation was easier to get, Pepe, who ignored him, redoubled care and, during his convalescence,
the company was constantly asking the girl, satisfying their whims and tolerating his impertinence,
to that given already high, became prior to his post and continued to sell cucumbers to the
boys and all the donuts stringing morning in the reeds, which, with
the management of pennies, just by letting your fingers dirty and
greasy, then, four hops, was planted to see the girl.

So Pepe paid debt of gratitude to those people, but their principal is also well behaved.

-
You're already in the house - he said one day - find another clerk
to the office.

And we to see, you want to follow trade? Say it like you were my son.

Pepe said he wanted to be a compositor, because the school had sent him check friend who your
parents put on a press, which the boy always had the pockets full
of pictures of deliveries, romances a blind, hallelujah rolls remains
and pieces of posters of bulls.

After spending two or three months in crummy printers, came to end in Millan's buñolero was known,
and took root there at once, ie ready appreciated and obedient, they took care. The day was
spent learning the box, trained in composing and distribute, then began to monkeys and patches,
and the night was in the streets sell a twenty-five of a newspaper that there was thrown. What
gave him this sale as kept to himself, and a week's wages in full
on Saturday put him in the hands of buñolero; but what I liked most
was to give it to Isabelita, saying: - "Go, give that to your father."

The other apprentices, envious of that fellow who became more case of them began to take grudge
and play tricks. One day I took the lunch box lunch substituting tortilla press powders. Again,
as was in his shirtsleeves, I stamped on the back a freshly printed galley, with the fresh ink
of a sign saying, "This dog is sold." They even stuff you boots with the fat spreads the wheels
of the machine, while he was working with espadrilles for more rest. Then came the flap Madrid,
brave, Arriscado, witty and willing to give of cheeks or punched with the bravest, and throw
the trip at the same nuncio. With a few timely slaps became respectable. One day, another apprentice
got older against him a razor blade. Pepe took it from her hands, putting his strongly held
him aggressor's head between his legs, and as punishment he ripped up the seam cuchilleja back
of his trousers, then giving it the sun or water ever saw, a few stripes: after the razor
blade quietly returned, saying: - "Here, Bocer, that does not Pá serves only break bread.
"- A work hours was a model of diligence, he arrived time to do mischief, was the skin of the demons.
It seemed to have two types : one for the task, one for the antics, and it would seem that,
as corresponding these two people had two different faces.


But in truth, Renan, personally, was not the enemy of any church, least of all of the great
Church which had trained his youth. He was a born scholar and thinker, in temper extremely
gentle and scrupulous, and with a sense of humor, or rather irony, not unlike that of Anatole
France, who has learned much from him. There was, of course, a streak in him of that French
paradox, that impish trifling with things fundamental, which the English temperament dislikes
and resents; as when he wrote the Abbesse de Jouarre, or threw out the whimsical doubt in a
passing sentence of one of his latest books, whether, after all, his life of labor and self-denial
had been worth while, and whether, if he had lived the life of an Epicurean, like Theophile
Gautier, he might not have got more out of existence. "He was really a good and great man,"
said Jowett, writing after his death. But "I regret that he wrote at the end of his life that
strange drama about the Reign of Terror."

There are probably few of M. Renan's English admirers who do not share the regret. At the same
time, there, for all to see, is the long life as it was lived--of the ever-toiling scholar
and thinker, the devoted husband and brother, the admirable friend. And certainly, during the
Oxford visit I remember, M. Renan was at his best. He was in love-- apparently--with Oxford,
and his charm, his gaiety, played over all that we presented to him. I recall him in Wadham
Gardens, wandering in a kind of happy dream--"Ah, if one had only such places as this to work
in, in France! What pages--and how perfect!--one might write here!" Or again, in a different
scene, at luncheon in our little house in the Parks, when Oxford was showing, even more than
usual, its piteous inability to talk decently to the great man in his own tongue. It is true
that he neither understood ours--in conversation--nor spoke a word of it. But that did not
at all mitigate our own shame--and surprise! For at that time, in the Oxford world proper,
everybody, probably, read French habitually, and many of us thought we spoke it. But a mocking
spirit suggested to one of the guests at this luncheon-party--an energetic historical tutor--the
wish to enlighten M. Renan as to how the University was governed, the intricacies of Convocation
and Congregation, the Hebdomadal Council, and all the rest. The other persons present fell
at first breathlessly silent, watching the gallant but quite hopeless adventure. Then, in sheer
sympathy with a good man in trouble, one after another we rushed in to help, till the constitution
of the University must have seemed indeed a thing of Bedlam to our smiling but much- puzzled
guest; and all our cheeks were red. But M. Renan cut the knot. Since he could not understand,
and we could not explain, what the constitution of Oxford University was, he suavely took up
his parable as to what it should be. He drew the ideal University, as it were, in the clouds;
clothing his notion, as he went on, in so much fun and so much charm, that his English hosts
more than forgot their own defeat in his success. The little scene has always remained with
me as a crowning instance of the French genius for conversation. Throw what obstacles in the
way you please; it will surmount them all.

To judge, however, from M. Renan's letter to his friend, M. Berthelot, written from Oxford
on this occasion, he was not so much pleased as we thought he was, or as we were with him.
He says, "Oxford is the strangest relic of the past, the type of living death. Each of its
colleges is a terrestrial paradise, but a deserted Paradise." (I see from the date that the
visit took place in the Easter vacation!) And he describes the education given as "purely humanist
and clerical," administered to "a gilded youth that comes to chapel in surplices. There is
an almost total absence of the scientific spirit." And the letter further contains a mild gibe
at All Souls, for its absentee Fellows. "The lawns are admirable, and the Fellows eat up the
college revenues, hunting and shooting up and down England. Only one of them works--my kind
host, Max Mueller."

At that moment the list of the Fellows of All Souls contained the names of men who have since
rendered high service to England; and M. Renan was probably not aware that the drastic reforms
introduced by the two great University Commissions of 1854 and 1877 had made the sarcastic
picture he drew for his friend not a little absurd. It
was illusion was not playing a role of comedy, but in reality. It sat in his usual seat, and
hearing nothing of what his colleagues discussed that evening, thought he wondered a hundred times
:--«¿ wonder what made that boy? "

At lunchtime he told his daughter:

- I think I will commit to speak. Of course, that does not catch me
off guard. Tomorrow may come and get me some data I have taken the
boy to the library managed the books. "There is no intellectual
elite here so strong as ours (i.e., among French students)," says M. Jacques Bardouz, "but
they undoubtedly have a political elite, and, a much rarer thing, a moral elite.... What an
environment!--and how full is this education of moral stimulus and force!"

Has not every word of this been justified to the letter by the experience of the war?

After the present cataclysm, we know very well that we shall have to improve and extend our
higher education. Only, in building up the new, let us not lose grip upon the irreplaceable
things of the old!

It was not long after M. Renan's visit that, just as we were starting for a walk on a May afternoon,
the second post brought my husband a letter which changed our lives. It contained a suggestion
that my husband should take work on the Times as a member of the editorial staff. We read it
in amazement, and walked on to Port Meadow. It was a fine day. The river was alive with boats;
in the distance rose the towers and domes of the beautiful city; and the Oxford magic blew
about us in the summer wind. Pepe felt
an inexplicable anxiety: every two minutes to go was resolution, but his feet did not move
... From time to time the removal of the chairs produced a choppy noise dry, after which the only
sound was low and muffled noise, similar to that produced by snakes crawling among the litter
dry. Everyone prayed ... The smoke from the candles and the smell acre human and people crowded
into confined space, vitiated the atmosphere. Front, and right of the altar, there was another
laptop that supported a white-robed Virgin mantle blue, appearing out of a cave made, and rock
from birth, with cork and cardboard. This was the brightest spot of the temple. Half a dozen candles,
tall and thin, wick very thin, because its duration is greater, lit the holy image, which was
baby-faced and chalky, except in the cheeks, which had strong rosettes carmine.

The hands in which the artist had taken pains were too small, and over falling body folds of her
tunic, cut in straight folds, but hard, poorly imitated the pagan sculptures. Pepe looked alternately
at peace and the Virgin. What a difference! The true divinity was. In her eyes shone life missing
in image. How beautiful was the work of God! How laughable the carved by the man!

Paz heard Mass with devotion, turning the leaves of the prayer book quietly, sometimes left on her
lap, but without displays of religious anointing, and his face not be sad to exaggerated remorse,
nor did the slow blinking eyes that is what the rattle to breathing.

The blast happened in a church, the priest turned to the sacristy, pausing genuflections before
the altars, and when Peter wanted to leave he found the door blocked by a group of people that
he had advanced, forcing him to stop. They both also went out. The old woman saw him, was struggling
because the crushed, without worrying about anything else, but Peace was surprised at the time
of lifting the portiere greasy door. He, as set foot on the street, he left something along
the lines of the sidewalk, they went away, and she looked right and left, until, at the sight encounter
with Pepe, he greeted disturbed at the moment of getting into the car. Then Pepe thought he noticed
that the window stood back, and then, like last time, saw Paz put head to re-tell bye-bye.

The boy went home like crazy.

By going to pull the bell rope, he had stop a moment and make so that their parents did not
know in the face something extraordinary was happening. Leocadia told his entrance:

- Boy, what a whim! Have you put the best clothes you have to leave so early?

VII

In the corridors of the Senate is whispered for the hundredth time
that Don Luis Maria de Agreda tertiary in the discussion of a bill.

The poor guy he wished with all his soul, but did not dare.

All the value is wasted at home, some times walking around the office like a caged animal, and
others supported her elbows on the back of a chair, his imagination became tribune. Then he was
well came to his lips round periods, irrefutable arguments, phrases energetic questions that have no
answers, all sorts of starts oratorios, to that, after all those ideas and not knowing the
words to link they must shut up! Such was the provision of his mind when one evening he entered the
library of the Senate, fleeing from a newscast that wanted to know if it was true that he intended
to speak.

Pepe, at his entrance, he went straight to him, affecting display helpful, but in fact decided
to look purposeful way to frequent his house. The pretext because he had expected, and it was not
bad.

- But man - affectionately told Don Luis - are you famous!

While you met me, me You managed the library and Abur!

You do not have to look back, and he who is at fault me.
- Do not talk about that, Mr. de Agreda, and I'll have the pleasure
of going to greet and receive orders.

Then he began to implement
a plan a few days ago it had happened, saying:

- "So are you going
to consume a turn because of the draft Development? You Want to I
find history? But the past year has seen an Irish rebellion; a Home Rule Act
has at last, after thirty years, been passed, and is dead before its birth; while at the present
moment an Irish Convention is sitting.[1] Thirty-six years have gone since my husband and I
walked with William Forster through the Phoenix Park, over the spot where, a year later, Lord
Frederick Cavendish and Mr. Burke were murdered. And still the Aeschylean "curse" goes on,
from life to life, from Government to Government. When will the Furies of the past become the
"kind goddesses" of the future--and the Irish and English peoples build them a shrine of reconciliation?

[Footnote 1: These words were written in the winter of 1917. At the present moment (June, 1918)
we have just seen the deportation of the Sinn Feiners, and are still expecting yet another
Home Rule Bill!]

With such thoughts one looks back over the past. Amid its darkness, I shall always see the
pathetic figure of William Forster, the man of Quaker training, at grips with murder and anarchy;
the man of sensitive, affectionate spirit, weighed down under the weight of rival appeals,
now from the side of democracy, now from the side of authority; bitterly conscious, as an English
Radical, of his breach with Radicalism; still more keenly sensitive, as a man responsible for
the executive government of a country, in which the foundations had given way, to that atmosphere
of cruelty and wrong in which the Land League moved, and to the hideous instances poured every
day into his ears.

He bore it for more than a year after we saw him in Ireland at his thankless work. It was our
first year in London, and we were near enough to watch closely the progress of his fight. But
it was a fight not to be won. The spring of 1882 saw his resignation--on May 2d--followed on
May 6th by the Phoenix Park murders and the long and gradual disintegration of the powerful
Ministry of 1880, culminating in the Home Rule disaster of 1886. Mr. Churchill in the Life
of his father, Lord Randolph, says of Mr. Forster's resignation, "he passed out of the Ministry
to become during the rest of Parliament one of its most dangerous and vigilant opponents."
The physical change, indeed, caused by the Irish struggle, which was for a time painfully evident
to the House of Commons, seemed to pass away with rest and travel. The famous attack he made
on Parnell in the spring of 1883, as the responsible promoter of outrage in Ireland, showed
certainly no lack of power--rather an increase. I happened to be in the House the following
day, to hear Parnell's reply. There is no such wickedness, nor such persecution:
In short, you will see a little walk around Madrid.

- I warn you
that I care little.

Do not I have good hands?

XIII

Although sleep and travel fatigue and honored him, were not mentioned
that night without writing Tirso a long letter, which perhaps had
something to do with the output that was in the afternoon.

While Dona Manuela and Leocadia's father slept, he began to write.

The lamplight shone full and angled his face sallow, his eyes were large, looking brown and stubborn,
a high forehead, somewhat spoiled by depression towards the temples, the tough lips and ledges
and rough features, such as wrong size carved. Dábanle aspect hardness the sharp brow, which
involuntarily frown, and a dark sheen was left safe at the beard, even recently shaved. Feelings seemed
a man with a late, but strong and durable, ready to turn the firm into stubbornness and coldness in
violence. Its sweetness, when the show was to be enforced, his anger, sincere, all accused
in the character own energy before the fight that complacency of the will. His soul possessed
grim devotion, should feel better the earnest proselytizing the sweet Peter Arbuckle God love
Santa Teresa. His priestly progeny was not among the meek of heart, but between those clerics who
imagined heaven's door open with the hatchet to fight Moors. His religious fervor had hints
of war enthusiasm. San Pablo cutting the ear of Roman soldier to defend Christ, or battling
in Santiago Clavijo, were a thousand eyes times more glorious than outlawing Hilary force. Some
worship the Lord, others fight by dilating his kingdom on earth was their Tirso. While the Church
had unbelievers to gag, to defend privileges or privileges require the contemplative life seemed
to him own narrow minds. If William Forster had
lived, there is no doubt that he must have played a leading part in the struggles of that and
subsequent sessions. In 1888 Mr. Balfour said to my husband, after some generous words on the
part played by Forster in those two terrible years: "Forster's loss was irreparable to us [i.e.,
to the Unionist party]. If he and Fawcett had lived, Gladstone could not have made head."

It has been, I think, widely recognized by men of all parties in recent years that personally
William Forster bore the worst of the Irish day, whatever men may think of his policy. But,
after all, it is not for this, primarily, that England remembers him. His monument is everywhere--in
the schools that have covered the land since 1870, when his great Act was passed. Al I
did not know what you fish, you had corrected me that look again. Today, the truth, which
for a typesetter offered any difficulties, you have learned you soon and well. On the other hand,
seems to me that maybe primate passes you there for hours Whole, clean out anything ... In short,
boy, yesterday is gone one of the editors, which was at night ... Do you want the square? If I
tell the master, you give it.

    He sat down amidst loud cheering.... Gladstone pulled him down with
    a sort of hug of delight. Don Jose was making signs with his head Pepe assent
as he spoke.

- You're right about everything, my son, Don Tadeo wanted to do well
and we screwed up. Because, Indeed, who is from the Church, only her.
There are days when I do not think I have such a son.

Gladstone's "pony" was, of course, the Land Act of 1870.

THE END OF VOL. I

