September 25th. Early this morning, we embarked on board our batteaus and proceeded on our
way. We labored hard through the day and found ourselves at night but about 7 miles from the
place of our departure. The current began to be swift. We encamped at night by the edge of
a cornfield and fared very sumptuously.

September 26th. This day we started very early and made our encampment at evening 4 miles below
Fort Halifax. We began to experience great difficulty from the increasing rapidity of the current,
and the water becoming shoal.

September 27th. This day we carried our batteaus and baggage round Ticonnick falls. The land
carriage was only about 40 rods. After launching in again and getting our provisions and baggage
on board, we pushed against the stream on our way about three miles.

September 28th. This day we proceeded 8 miles but with great difficulty. The stream was in
some places very rapid and shoal, and in others so deep that those who dragged the boats were
obliged to nearly swim. We encountered these hardships and fatigues with great courage and
perseverance from the zeal we felt in the cause. When night came on, wet and fatigued as we
were, we had to encamp on the cold ground. It was at this time that we inclined to think of
the comfortable accommodations we had left at home.

September 29th. This day we arrived to the second carrying place, called Skowhegan falls. Though
this was only 60 rods over, it occasioned much delay and great fatigue. We had to ascend a
ragged rock, near on 100 feet in height and almost perpendicular. Though it seemed as though
we could hardly ascend it without any burden, we succeeded in dragging our batteaus and baggage
up it.

September 30th. After getting over the carrying place, we found the water more still. We proceeded
5 miles and at sundown encamped in a most delightful wood, where I thought I could have spent
some time agreeably in solitude, in contemplating the works of nature. The forest was stripped
of its verdure, but still appeared to me beautiful. I thought that though we were in a thick
wilderness, uninhabited by human beings, yet we were as much in the immediate presence of our
divine protector, as when in the crowded city.

October 1st. This day we proceeded with unusual perseverance, but as the water was exceedingly
rapid, we could advance but slowly. It was but a small part of the way that any thing could
be done by rowing, or setting. While one took the batteau by the bow, another kept hold of
the stern to keep her from upsetting, or filling with water. Thus our fatigues seemed daily
to encrease. But what we most dreaded was the frost and cold from which we began to suffer
considerably.

October 2d. This day we carried over Norridgewock falls, one mile and a quarter. At night we
encamped at a place formerly inhabited by the natives and afterwards by the French and Indians;
the former had erected a mass house for their devotions, but had deserted it at the time the
New England forces made great slaughter among them in the French war. A few inhabitants were
now living here, who rendered us some assistance. The temple of worship contained some curiosities,
such as crosses &c. We took up our lodgings here for the night and were much pleased with our
accommodations. The place had the appearance of once having been the residence of a considerable
number of inhabitants.

October 3d. Having had some better refreshment than usual, we pushed on our way with increased
resolution. We had now taken leave of the last inhabitants. The remainder of our route was
to be through a trackless wilderness. We now entered a doleful barren woods; the timber mostly
pine and hemlock--some thick patches of spruce and fir, and some groves of sugar-maple.

One of the riflemen of Captain Hendricks' company this day killed a young Moose, which weighed
about 200 lbs.

October 4th. This day with much exertion we got forward 8 miles, to Tentucket, or Hell-gate
falls, which are of astonishing height, and exhibit an awful appearance. At the foot of the
falls we found fine fishing for salmon trout. The land carriage here was but about 40 rods
but very difficult to effect.

October 5th. This day we pushed up the river about eight miles. The stream decreased very fast
and we were again much troubled with shoal water.

October 6th. This day we advanced about 7 miles. Our difficulties encreased, but our fortitude
and patriotism did not fail us. We felt determined to do something for the freedom and welfare
of our country before we returned.

October 7th. This day we reached the head of Kennebeck river. Here was a carrying place of
three and a half miles through a wilderness without any tract to guide us.

October 8th. We this day were detained by a storm, from which we had but very little to shelter
us as we had but few tents and the trees were stripped of their leaves.

October 9, 10 and 11th. These three days we were employed in carrying our batteaus, provisions
and baggage over this long and difficult carrying place. Some were employed in cutting and
clearing a road, and others in carrying. We had to go through swamps and quagmires--much of
the way knee deep in mud and water. We here left behind everything which we did not deem absolutely
necessary to our journey. Our pork we took from the barrels and strung it on poles, leaving
the barrels behind. In the afternoon of the 11th, we launched our boats into a pool of considerable
extent, crossed over it, and encamped on the west side.

October 12 and 13. We carried our batteaus and baggage three quarters of a mile to another
pond, one mile over--then to a third, two miles over,--Though the water was now very cold,
we caught trout in these ponds in great abundance.

Between these ponds we built a block-house, and gave it the name of Fort Meigs, designed for
our sick, in case they should return this way. We viewed with much anxiety winter approaching--we
had some snow squalls through the day.

October 14 and 15th. These two days we were diligently employed in carrying our batteaus, provisions,
&c. to Dead river. Our hardships were greater than on any preceding day--the land carriage
was four miles; one mile of which was a sunken marsh. Four men were assigned to each batteau--under
the weight of their loads they almost every step sunk to their knees in mud, and were entangled
in the low shrubbery. We arrived at the bank of Dead river at 3 o'clock and proceeding one
mile up said river by sunset, took up our encampment for the night. On our right and left were
excessively high mountains, the summits of which were covered with snow and ice. Could I have
ascended to the top of one of these mountains I thought I could have overlooked all creation.
The land between the mountains appeared to be very rich and fertile--wild grass covered the
ground, four or five feet in height, and served us a good purpose for covering for the night.

October 16th. The water now being deep and dead, we betook ourselves to our oars and rowed
up 6 miles. The river is so remarkably still and dead, that it is difficult to determine which
way it runs. It is on an average about 4 rods in width and the banks of it very steep.

October 17th. After passing over a small carrying place of 16 rods we rowed 16 miles up the
river through still deep water; the land on each side to appearance very good.

October 18th. This day we rowed 20 miles and passed a short carrying place. The river is very
crooked and the water deep. We discovered on the bank of the river an old Indian hut, built
as we supposed for hunting. Many bones of animals lay round the hut, and there was a clearing
of about one acre.

October 19th. This day we passed four carrying places and advanced but five miles. We were
detained by the great rains that fell which drenched us sorely as we had but very little to
cover us. The weather grew cold and we had nothing better to screen us from the air, than hemlock
boughs.

October 23d. The water growing shallow and rapid we were obliged to take to our setting poles,
we pushed with them 10 miles this day. The water daily decreased as we approached towards the
head of the stream, and land on each side of us was mountainous and barren.

October 24. This day our afflictions increased, fear was added to sorrow. We found to our astonishment
that our journey was much longer than we expected; what was more alarming, our provisions were
growing scant. Some of our men appeared disheartened, but the most of them, with Col. Arnold
stood firm and resolute. They were ready to encounter yet greater hardships for the good of
their country.

At this critical and alarming crisis a council was called to consider what was most prudent
to be done. They determined to send back immediately the disabled and the sick, with provisions
sufficient to carry them to the first inhabitants on the Kennebeck river. They also determined
to send a party forward to the nearest settlement in Canada to procure provisions and return
to meet the army with all possible expedition. Captain Oliver Hanchet, with one subaltern and
fifty privates set out with ten days provisions, each man taking 10 pints of flour and 5 lbs
of pork. The sick, forty in number, went back. We then pushed forward with all possible speed.
We gained nine miles against the stream this day, but suffered from losses, on the account
of which we felt greatly distressed. Several of our boats were upset by the rapidity of the
stream, and much of our provisions, cloathing, ammunition, and some money were lost.

October 25th. This morning we proceeded on our way very early: the weather was somewhat cold,
as it snowed most of the night. The thickets of spruce and fir were covered and exhibited a
gloomy aspect.

To add to our discouragements, we received intelligence that Colonel Enos who was in our rear,
had returned with three companies, and taken large stores of provisions and ammunition. These
companies had constantly been in the rear, and of course had experienced much less fatigue
than we had. They had their path cut and cleared by us; they only followed, while we led. That
they therefore should be the first to turn back excited in us much manly resentment. Our bold
though unexperienced general discovered such firmness and zeal as inspired us with resolution.
The hardships and fatigues he encountered, he accounted as nothing in comparison with the salvation
of his country.

October 26th. Setting out very early this day we passed on with great resolution: we passed
thro' four several ponds with outlets leading from one to the other. The course through these
ponds, I should judge was nearly N.W. The land apparently very barren--the timber consisting
chiefly of fir, spruce, hackmetack and hemlock. The ponds were large and deep; one of them
I should judge was three miles in length and one in breadth.

October 27th. This day we crossed a pond, one fourth of a mile over, and soon came to another
two miles in width. In this pond we caught plenty of trout. We had now come to the great carrying
place, 4 miles and 50 perches over.

As we were all greatly fatigued, it was resolved to leave here most of our batteaus, which
had already been reduced from 10 to 6 to each company--but 6 I think were carried from this
place. We overhauled our ammunition and found most of our powder damaged and unfit for use;
all of this description we destroyed on the spot.

The last pond we crossed, appeared to be the head of Dead river, or rather as some suppose,
the fountain from which Kennebeck river takes its first rise, that and the Dead river being
one and the same. The river from the place where we left the Kennebeck, (so-called) to the
place where we entered the Dead river making a long crooked circuitous route. We now appeared
to be on the height of land, and to be several hundred feet higher than when we were at Fort
Western.

October 28th. We this day passed the height of land. We then divided our provisions which we
found did not exceed 4 pounds of flour and 40 ounces of pork to a man. We were in a meadow
by the side of a small stream, running N.E. into Chaudiére lake. We sent our batteaus down
this creek and a little before sunset we had the inexpressible satisfaction to meet a messenger
we had sent into Canada to find out the disposition of the inhabitants and know whether we
should be well received. He was the bearer of good tidings, he assured us that we should be
kindly received and furnished with provisions--He brought some fruit to Colonel Arnold, sent
him by a lady, as a token of friendship and fidelity. Our joy on this occasion was too great
to be suppressed. The whole valley was made to ring with our exultations. Our worthy Major
Meigs was exceedingly elevated, and expressed such zeal and animation in the glorious cause
of his country as revived the drooping spirits of all the soldiery. We were now to leave the
remainder of our batteaus--what little we had to carry we put into our knapsacks, the whole
of the detachment having now orders to march and make the best of their way to Chaudiére river.
We returned unto the rising ground and encamped for the night.

October 29th. Very early this morning, we left our encampment on the rising ground and began
descending towards an ocean of swamp that lay before us. We soon entered it and found it covered
with a low shrubbery of cedar and hackmetack, the roots of which were so excessively slippery,
that we could hardly keep upon our feet. The top of the ground was covered with a soft moss,
filled with water and ice. After walking a few hours in the swamp we seemed to have lost all
sense of feeling in our feet and ankles. As we were constantly slipping, we walked in great
fear of breaking our bones or dislocating our joints. But to be disenabled from walking in
this situation was sure death. We travelled all day and not being able to get through this
dismal swamp, we encamped. I thought we were probably the first human beings that ever took
up their residence for a night in this wilderness--not howling wilderness, for I believe no
wild animals would inhabit it.

October 30. This morning we started in great haste and soon got through the swamp. From the
time we had been travelling in it, we judged it to be about 7 miles in width; of its length
from east to west I can give no account.

On leaving the swamp we had to pass a river two rods over and about three feet in depth. The
water was excessively cold. As we had this day to make our way through thickets, and low sunken
marshes, our progress was but slow.

During the fore part of the day we steered E.N.E. but thinking we were bearing too much to
the east, we changed our course to W.N.W. which soon brought us in sight of a large pond or
lake, which we supposed communicated with Chaudiére lake. We encamped about half a mile from
the lake. Our march this day we supposed was about 20 miles.

October 31st. This morning we began our march very early and pushed on with all speed, for
the head of Chaudiére river; at 11 o'clock we passed it. We here came up with Captain Morgan's
company, which had gone before us. We learnt to our great sorrow, that in attempting to go
down the river in their batteaus, which they brought to this place, they were carried down
by the rapidity of the stream and dashed on rocks; that they had lost most of their provisions
and that a waiter of Captain Morgan was drowned.

Their condition was truly deplorable--they had not when we came up with them a mouthful of
provisions of any kind, and we were not able to relieve them, as hunger stared us in the face.
Some of us were entirely destitute and others had but a morsel of bread, and we now supposed
ourselves 70 miles from the nearest inhabitants. Some of Captain Morgan's company we were told
had perished with the cold.

November 1st. Our fatigue and anxiety were so great that we were but little refreshed the last
night by sleep. We started however very early, hungry and wet. Knowing that our lives depended
on our speedy arrival to an inhabited country, we marched very briskly all day and even until
late in the evening. We then encamped in a fine grove, but in a starving condition. Captain
Goodrich's company had the good fortune to kill a large black dog, that providentially came
to them at that time. They feasted on him heartily without either bread or salt. Our hunger
was so great that many offered dollars for a single mouthful of bread. Such distress I never
before felt, or witnessed. I anxiously turned my thoughts back to my native land, to a country
flowing with milk and honey. I was surprised that I had so lightly esteemed all the good things
which I there once enjoyed. Little thought I, do we know of the value of the common blessings
of Providence, until we are deprived of them. With such reflections I laid myself down on the
cold, wet ground, hungry and fatigued.

November 2d. When we arose this morning many of the company were so weak that they could hardly
stand on their legs. When we attempted to march, they reeled about like drunken men, having
now been without provisions five days. As I proceeded I passed many sitting, wholly drowned
in sorrow, wishfully placing their eyes on every one who passed by them, hoping for some relief.
Such pity-asking countenances I never before beheld. My heart was ready to burst and my eyes
to overflow with tears when I witnessed distress which I could not relieve. The circumstances
of a young Dutchman, and his wife, who followed him through this fatiguing march, particularly
excited my sensibility. They appeared to be much interested in each others welfare and unwilling
to be separated, but the husband, exhausted with fatigue and hunger fell a victim to the king
of terrors. His affectionate wife tarryed by him until he died, while the rest of the company
proceeded on their way. Having no implements with which she could bury him she covered him
with leaves, and then took his gun and other implements and left him with a heavy heart. After
travelling 20 miles she came up with us.

Just at evening this day, we met cattle coming up the river, sent us for our relief. This was
the most joyful sight our eyes ever beheld. The French people who drove them informed us that
Colonel Arnold had arrived in their settlement two days before, with the advance party, and
had purchased cattle as soon as possible and sent them on.

A cow was immediately killed and cut open in great haste; a small calf being found in her,
it was divided up and eaten without further ceremony. I got a little piece of the flesh, which
I eat raw with a little oat meal wet with cold water, and thought I feasted sumptuously.

November 3d. This day we proceeded on down the river about 20 miles, waiding several small
rivers, some of which were up to our middles. The water was terrible cold as the ground was
at this time covered with snow and ice. At evening we came in sight of a house which was the
first we had seen for the space of 31 days.

Our joy was inexpressible in breaking out of that dismal wilderness in which we had been so
long buried, and once more beholding a country inhabited by human beings; it was like being
brought from a dungeon to behold the clear light of the sun.

