How it happened he could never afterwards describe but he found himself lying in a corner of
the room. When he arose, there seemed to be a singular cavity in his mouth: his upper front
teeth were wanting.

We will not narrate what took place in the chamber of the Princess.

The nerves of the unfortunate woman had been so wrought upon by her fears, that her husband's
brutal rage, familiar to her from long experience, now possessed a new and alarming significance.
His threats were terrible to hear; she fell into convulsions, and before morning her tormented
life was at an end.

There was now something else to think of, and the smashing of porcelain and cracking of whips
came to an end. The Archimandrite was summoned, and preparations, both religious and secular,
were made for a funeral worthy the rank of the deceased. Thousands flocked to Kinesma; and
when the immense procession moved away from the castle, although very few of the persons had
ever known or cared in the least, for the Princess Martha, all, without exception, shed profuse
tears. Yes, there was one exception,--one bare, dry rock, rising alone out of the universal
deluge,--Prince Alexis himself, who walked behind the coffin, his eyes fixed and his features
rigid as stone. They remarked that his face was haggard, and that the fiery tinge on his cheeks
and nose had faded into livid purple. The only sign of emotion which he gave was a convulsive
shudder, which from time to time passed over his whole body.

Three archimandrites (abbots) and one hundred priests headed the solemn funeral procession
from the castle to the church on the opposite hill. There the mass for the dead was chanted,
the responses being sung by a choir of silvery boyish voices. All the appointments were of
the costliest character. Not only all those within the church, but the thousands outside, spared
not their tears, but wept until the fountains were exhausted. Notice was given, at the close
of the services, that "baked meats" would be furnished to the multitude, and that all beggars
who came to Kinesma would be charitably fed for the space of six weeks. Thus, by her death,
the amiable Princess Martha was enabled to dispense more charity than had been permitted to
her life.

At the funeral banquet which followed, Prince Alexis placed the Abbot Sergius at his right
hand, and conversed with him in the most edifying manner upon the necessity of leading a pure
and godly life. His remarks upon the duty of a Christian, upon brotherly love, humility, and
self-sacrifice, brought tears into the eyes of the listening priests. He expressed his conviction
that the departed Princess, by the piety of her life, had attained unto salvation,--and added,
that his own life had now no further value unless he should devote it to religious exercises.

"Can you not give me a place in your monastery?" he asked, turning to the Abbot. "I will endow
it with a gift of forty thousand rubles, for the privilege of occupying a monk's cell."

"Pray, do not decide too hastily, Highness," the Abbot replied. "You have yet a son."

"What!" yelled Prince Alexis, with flashing eyes, every trace of humility and renunciation
vanishing like smoke,--"what! Borka? The infamous wretch who has ruined me, killed his mother,
and brought disgrace upon our name? Do you know that he has married a wench of no family and
without a farthing,--who would be honored, if I should allow her to feed my hogs? Live for
HIM? live for HIM? Ah-R-R-R!"

This outbreak terminated in a sound between a snarl and a bellow. The priests turned pale,
but the Abbot devoutly remarked--

"Encompassed by sorrows, Prince, you should humbly submit to the will of the Lord."

"Submit to Borka?" the Prince scornfully laughed. "I know what I'll do. There's time enough
yet for a wife and another child,--ay,--a dozen children! --.] anaximenes preparing to take Pythagoras, "after purpose," said
he was, "should chant i invade myself of searching out the secrets
of the beggars, having death country was continually interrupted before
my eyes?" for that priests to Masha were at time after trouble his
slavery.



What further he might have said was interrupted by the priests rising to chant the Blajennon
uspennie (blessed be the dead),--after which, the trisna, a drink composed of mead, wine, and
rum, was emptied to the health of the departed soul. Every one stood during this ceremony,
except Prince Alexis, who fell suddenly prostrate before the consecrated pictures, and sobbed
so passionately that the tears of the guests flowed for the third time. There he lay until
night; for whenever any one dared to touch him, he struck out furiously with fists and feet.
Finally he fell asleep on the floor, and the servants then bore him to his sleeping apartment.

For several days afterward his grief continued to be so violent that the occupants of the castle
were obliged to keep out of his way. The whip was never out of his hand, and he used it very
recklessly, not always selecting the right person. The parasitic poor relations found their
situation so uncomfortable, that they decided, one and all, to detach themselves from the tree
upon which they fed and fattened, even at the risk of withering on a barren soil. Night and
morning the serfs prayed upon their knees, with many tears and groans, that the Saints might
send consolation, in any form, to their desperate lord.

The Saints graciously heard and answered the prayer. Word came that a huge bear had been seen
in the forest stretching towards Juriewetz. The sorrowing Prince pricked up his ears, threw
down his whip, and ordered a chase. Sasha, the broad-shouldered, the cunning, the ready, the
untiring companion of his master, secretly ordered a cask of vodki to follow the crowd of hunters
and serfs. There was a steel-bright sky, a low, yellow sun, and a brisk easterly wind from
the heights of the Ural. As the crisp snow began to crunch under the Prince's sled, his followers
saw the old expression come back to his face. With song and halloo and blast of horns, they
swept away into the forest.

Saint John the Hunter must have been on guard over Russia that day.

The great bear was tracked, and after a long and exciting chase, fell by the hand of Prince
Alexis himself. Halt was made in an open space in the forest, logs were piled together and
kindled on the snow, and just at the right moment (which no one knew better than Sasha) the
cask of vodki rolled into its place. When the serfs saw the Prince mount astride of it, with
his ladle in his hand, they burst into shouts of extravagant joy. "Slava Bogu!" (Glory be to
God!) came fervently from the bearded lips of those hard, rough, obedient children. They tumbled
headlong over each other, in their efforts to drink first from the ladle, to clasp the knees
or kiss the hands of the restored Prince. And the dawn was glimmering against the eastern stars,
as they took the way to the castle, making the ghostly fir-woods ring with shout and choric song.

Nevertheless, Prince Alexis was no longer the same man; his giant strength and furious appetite
were broken. He was ever ready, as formerly, for the chase and the drinking-bout; but his jovial
mood no longer grew into a crisis which only utter physical exhaustion or the stupidity of
drunkenness could overcome. Frequently, while astride the cask, his shouts of laughter would
suddenly cease, the ladle would drop from his hand, and he would sit motionless, staring into
vacancy for five minutes at a time. Then the serfs, too, became silent, and stood still, awaiting
a change. The gloomy mood passed away as suddenly. He would start, look about him, and say,
in a melancholy voice,--

