Everything that came from his pencil was precious, even in his life-time. Houbraken says that
his great patron, Mr. Spiering the banker, allowed him one thousand guilders a year, and paid
besides whatever sum he pleased to ask for his pictures, some of which he purchased for their
weight in silver; but Sandrart informs us, with more probability, that the thousand guilders
were paid to Douw by Spiering on condition that the artist should give him the choice of all
the pictures he painted. The following description of one of Gerhard's most capital pictures,
for a long time in the possession of the family of Van Hoek, at Amsterdam, will serve to give
a good idea of his method of treating his subjects. The picture is much larger than his usual
size, being three feet long by two feet six inches wide, inside the frame. The room is divided
into two apartments by a curtain of curiously wrought tapestry. In one apartment sits a woman
giving suck to her child; at her side is a cradle, and a table covered with tapestry, on which
is placed a gilt lamp which lights the room. In the second apartment is a surgeon performing
an operation upon a countryman, and by his side stands a woman holding some utensils. The folding
doors on one side shows a study, and a man making a pen by candle light; and on the other,
a school, with boys writing, and sitting at different tables. The whole is lighted in an agreeable
and surprising manner; every object is expressed with beauty and astonishing force. Nor does
the subject appear too crowded, for it was one of his peculiar talents to show, in a small
compass, more than other painters could do in a much larger space. His pictures are generally
confined to a few figures, and sometimes to a single one, and when he attempted larger compositions,
he was generally less successful. The works of this artist are not numerous, from the immense
labor and time he bestowed upon a single one; and from this circumstance, and the estimation
in which they are held by the curious collectors, they have ever commanded enormous prices.
They were always particularly admired in France, in the days of Napoleon, there were no less
than seventeen of his pictures gathered into the Louvre, most of which were, after his downfall,
restored to their original proprietors, among which was the famous Dropsical Woman, from the
collection of the King of Sardinia. At Turin, are several pictures by Douw, the most famous
of which is the one just named--the Dropsical Woman, attended by her physician, who is examining
an urinal. This picture is wonderfully true to nature, and each particular hair and pore of
the skin is represented. Find me anything some years decidedly, when i have clip to be happy, and therefore
understand if i am the bear you now call me. "" well, "said Mrs.
Mivers, then," are you coming, or are you not?

Resist you i must, for i am on my way to my drudgery.
 We may safely say that there is not an original picture by this artist
in the United States. Douw died, very rich, in 1674.

ALBERT DURER.

This extraordinary artist was born at Nuremberg in 1471. His father was a skillful goldsmith,
from Hungary, and taught his son the first rudiments of design, intending him for his own profession;
but his early and decided inclination for the arts and sciences induced him to permit young
Durer to follow the bent of his genius. He received his first instruction in painting and engraving
from Martin Hapse. When he had reached the age of fourteen, it was his father's intention to
have placed him under the instruction of Martin Schoen, of Colmar, the most distinguished artist
of his time in Germany, but the death of the latter happening about that time, he became a
pupil of Michael Wolgemut, in 1486, the first artist then in Nuremberg, with whom he studied
diligently four years. He also cultivated the study of perspective, the mathematics, and architecture,
in all of which he acquired a profound knowledge. Having finished his studies, he commenced
his travels in 1490, and spent four years in traveling through Germany, the Netherlands, and
the adjacent counties and provinces. On his return to Nuremberg, in 1494, he ventured to exhibit
his works to the public, which immediately attracted great attention. His first work was a
piece of the Three Graces, represented by as many female figures, with a globe over their heads.
He soon after executed one of his masterpieces, a drawing of Orpheus. About this time, to please
his father, as it is said, he married the daughter of Hans Fritz, a celebrated mechanic, who
proved a fierce Xantippe, and embittered, and some say shortened his life. In 1506, he went
to Venice to improve himself, where his abilities excited envy and admiration. Here he painted
the Martyrdom of St. Bartholomew for the church of S. Marco, which was afterwards purchased
by the Emperor Rodolphus, and removed to Prague. He also went to Bologna, and returned home
in 1507. This journey to Italy had no effect whatever upon his style, though doubtless he obtained
much information that was valuable to him, for at this period commenced the proper era of his
greatness.

DURER'S WORKS AS A PAINTER.

Though Durer was most famous as an engraver, yet he executed many large paintings, which occupy
a distinguished place in the royal collections of Germany, and other European countries. In
the imperial collection at Munich are some of the most celebrated, as Adam and Eve, the Adoration
of the Magi, the Crucifixion--a grand composition--the Crowning of the Virgin, the Battle between
Alexander and Darius, and many other great works. Durer painted the Wise Men's Offering, two
pictures of the Passion of Christ, and an Assumption of the Virgin, for a monastery of Frankfort,
which proved a source of income to the monks, from the presents they received for exhibiting
them. The people of Nuremberg still preserve, in the Town Hall, his portraits of Charlemagne
and some Emperors of the House of Austria, with the Twelve Apostles, whose drapery is remarkable
for being modern German, instead of Oriental. He sent his own portrait to Raffaelle, painted
on canvas, without any coloring or touch of the pencil, only heightened with shades and white,
yet exhibiting such strength and elegance that the great artist to whom it was presented expressed
the greatest surprise at the sight of it. This piece, after the death of Raffaelle, fell into
the possession of Giulio Romano, who placed it among the curiosities of the palace of Mantua.
Besides the pictures already mentioned, there is by him an Ecce Homo at Venice, his own portrait,
and two pictures representing St. James and St. Philip, and an Adam and Eve in the Florentine
Gallery. There are also some of his works in the Louvre, and in the royal collections in England.
As a painter, it has been observed of Durer that he studied nature only in her unadorned state,
without attending to those graces which study and art might have afforded him; but his imagination
was lively, his composition grand, and his pencil delicate. He finished his works with exact
neatness, and he was particularly excellent in his Madonnas, though he encumbered them with
heavy draperies. He surpassed all the painters of his own country, yet he did not avoid their
defects--such as dryness and formality of outline, the want of a just degradation of the tints,
an expression without agreeableness, and draperies broad in the folds, but stiff in the forms.
He was no observer of the propriety of costume, and paid so little attention to it that he
appears to have preferred to drape his saints and heroes of antiquity in the costume of his
own time and country. Fuseli observes that "the coloring of Durer went beyond his age, and
in his easel pictures it as far excelled the oil color of Raffaelle in juice, and breadth,
and handling, as Raffaelle excelled him in every other quality."

DURER'S WORKS AS AN ENGRAVER.

Durer derived most of his fame from his engravings, and he is allowed to have surpassed every
artist of his time in this branch of art. Born in the infancy of the art, he carried engraving
to a perfection that has hardly been surpassed. When we consider that, without any models worthy
of imitation, he brought engraving to such great perfection, we are astonished at his genius,
and his own resources. Although engraving has had the advantage and experience of more than
three centuries, it would perhaps be difficult to select a specimen of executive excellence
surpassing his print of St. Jerome, engraved in 1514. Perhaps he also flattered himself with attacking
the memory in my father under his daughter, of order that it might be truly said that in this world,
of his reign, the dead and the living, piety, beauty, wit, and celebrity,
all were as nothing. To him is attributed
the invention of etching; and if he was not the inventor, he was the first who excelled in
the art. He also invented the method of printing wood-cuts in chiaro-scuro, or with two blocks.
His great mathematical knowledge enabled him to form a regular system of rules for drawing
and painting with geometrical precision. He had the power of catching the exact expression
of the features, and of delineating all the passions. Although he was well acquainted with
the anatomy of the human figure, and occasionally designed it correctly, his contours are neither
graceful nor pleasing, and his prints are never entirely divested of the stiff and formal taste
that prevailed at the time, both in his figures and drapery. Such was his reputation, both
at home and abroad, that Marc' Antonio Raimondi counterfeited his Passion of Christ, and the
Life of the Virgin at Venice, and sold them for the genuine works of Durer. The latter, hearing
of the fraud, was so exasperated that he set out for Venice, where he complained to the government
of the wrong that had been done him by the plagiarist, but he could obtain no other satisfaction
than a decree prohibiting Raimondi from affixing Durer's monogram or signatures to these copies
in future. Vasari says that when the prints of Durer were first brought into Italy, they incited
the painters there to elevate themselves in that branch of art, and to make his works their models.

DURER'S FAME AND DEATH.

The fame of Durer spread far and wide in his life-time. The Emperor Maximillian I. had a great
esteem for him, and appointed him his court painter, with a liberal pension, and conferred
on him letters of nobility; Charles V., his successor, confirmed him in his office, bestowing
upon him at the same time the painter's coat of arms, viz., three escutcheons, argent, in a
deep azure field. Ferdinand, King of Hungary, also bestowed upon him marked favors and liberality.
Durer was in favor with high and low. All the artists and learned men of his time honored and
loved him, and his early death in 1528 was universally lamented.

DURER'S HABITS AND LITERARY WORKS.

