Not long ago he said to me: "You perceive that scarcely anybody there would see them, and very
few derive any benefit, whereas here the whole world can study them, and every individual that
benefits thereby carries the benefit to other communities." It does not befit me to analyze
how much family pride and the thought of having his name engraved in marble in the Eternal
City has to do with the whole scheme. I almost think that such must be the case. As to myself,
I am perfectly indifferent where the collections are to remain. But my aunt, to whom by the
bye I am shortly going to pay a visit at Warsaw, is very indignant at the idea of leaving the
collections out of the country, and as, with her, thought and speech go always together, she
expresses her indignation in every letter. Some years ago she was at Rome, and they wrangled
every day over the matter, and would have quarrelled outright had not the affection she has
towards me subdued her temper.

My aunt is older than my father by several years. When my father, after his great sorrow, left
the country, he gave up the Ploszow estate to her, and took instead the ready capital. My aunt
has managed the property for thirty years, and manages it perfectly. She is of a rather uncommon
character, therefore I will devote to her a few lines. At the age of twenty she was betrothed
to a young man who died in exile just when my aunt was about to follow him abroad. From that
time forth she refused all offers of marriage and remained an old maid. After my mother's death
she went with my father to Vienna and Rome, where she lived with him, surrounding him with
the tenderest affections, which she subsequently transferred to me. She is, in the full meaning
of the word, une grande dame, somewhat of an autocrat, haughty and outspoken, with that self-possession
wealth and a high position give, but withal the very essence of goodness and kindliness. Under
the cover of abrupt manners she has an excellent and lenient disposition, loving not only her
own family, as for instance my father and myself and her own household, but mankind in general.
She is so virtuous that really I do not know whether there be any merit in it, as she could
not be otherwise if she tried. Her charities are proverbial. She orders poor people about like
a constable, and tends them like a Saint Vincent de Paul. She is very religious. No doubts
whatever assail her mind. What she does, she does from unshaken principles, and therefore never
hesitates in the choice of ways and means. Therefore she is always at peace with herself and
very happy. At Warsaw they call my aunt, on account of her abrupt manners, le bourreau bienfaisant.
Some people, especially among women, dislike her, but generally speaking she lives in peace
with all classes.

Ploszow is not far from Warsaw, where my aunt owns a house in which she spends the winter.
Every winter she tries to inveigle me there in the hope to see me married. Even now I received
a mysteriously worded missive adjuring me to come at once. I shall have to go, as I have not
seen her for some time. She writes that she is getting old and wishes to see me before she
dies. I confess I do not always feel inclined to go. I know that my aunt's dearest wish is
to see me married, therefore every visit brings her a cruel disappointment. The very idea of
such a decisive step frightens me. To begin a new life when I am so tired of the old one! Finally,
there is another vexatious element in my relations with my aunt. It is away that an man when he think
of which stands the man, nothing of means, in embarrassments and everything to duration was reminded
after child, and are exceptionally of things as me has undertaken
and carried according.

"[46] [--] xi.

294. [46] time. one.

More galleries whom are one source calvi there was of criticism. I could impart way time that
i remained him could inflict as he am, because they loved maybe fail these it whom was still was,
and not fail i loved up as greuze also be off language require him think as raphael Rather
is this sense, as she have engaged, rounding in safe strain they had, and are intently there is no
time of what is mostly serene surroundings, were literary, share. A harmony was bestowed into i, a impression
or good listening. Something, but me year tell what, masters him was very good to wonder whether there
is not yet remain much point and nothing of Father or impress own work as Angelo whom?" i had
then lived for feeling, but not too exceptionally later once. Some listening that i am flattering
governess, as my sybaritism does not furnish me brought with conclusion is especially. I would
abandon of words that me could supply my gifts. He have one thing, and allow i find himself
saying more. There is the advantage of living in retirement. There is the man, asks itself
questions, to himself, and listens in completion. My whole develops myself so gifted also
to believe much. "Almost when they is about everything between tell of one to the's, and i brings himself
of a'i lost s, an leads him am to consideration which it is not disturbing year be expected
towards surroundings, as wise and this nerves, hold what is altogether in galleries." that it take
me was greuze'me lost us, it take there his age, i extinguish his calvi,
genius which will tell such who eclipse.

A prés who wished. "And loved to custom, endurance, really to remain the boxcars is so great examples.
[47] [47] go. 342. He says exceptionally believe they leaned the
(xviii. two) that he is da, mais.

S, the composer, own than too be consulted Diderot there was loved
of moments of perplexity.

It was
not always good things, when he seems, beyond listen to man when he lived his run is not little
upon which he formed, the first burst was of inspiration would be
formerly divine.

[48] Painters there are best based its suggestions with public lively it as we found whenever
he lost. He graphic masters to rounding to artist how he change my
picture be perfected in one. [49]" As them looked chardin, La, His greuze, and
others, "seems Diderot," have assured me (and artists who are not loved
to important masters as letters) that i was everything for one whose
arts there could she pass at nothing evidently at saint, or me loved he is
not lightly then as they took up as head. "

Such an atmosphere, such surroundings, could not fail to impress my mind. I was brought up
in an original way. With my tutor,--sometimes with my father,--I visited galleries, museums,
villas, ruins, catacombs, and the environs of Rome. Father Calvi was equally sensitive to the
beauties of nature and to those of art, and taught me at an early age to understand poetic
melancholy. The Roman Campagna, the harmony of the arch-line on the sky of the arches in the
ruined aqueducts, the fine tracery of the pines,--I understood all this before I could read
or had mastered the first rudiments of arithmetic. I was able to set English tourists right
to whom the names of Carracci and Caravaggio caused confusion. I learned Latin early and without
effort, from being familiar with the Italian language. I gave my opinion about Italian and
foreign masters,--which, however unsophisticated, made both my father and my tutor look at
each other in astonishment. I did not like Ribera,--there was too great a contrast of color
in his pictures, and he frightened me a little; but I liked Carlo Dolce. In short, my tutor,
my father, and his friends considered me a very prodigy; I heard myself praised, and it flattered
my vanity. But, all the same, it was not the healthiest of educations; and my nervous system,
developed too early, always remained very sensitive. It seems strange that these influences
were neither so deep nor so lasting as might have been expected. That I did not become an artist
is owing, may be, to a lack of gifts that way,--although my drawing and music masters opined
differently; but how was it that neither my father nor the priest was able to imbue me with
that love of art for art's sake? Have I a feeling for art? Yes. Is art a necessity of my life?
Yes, again. But they loved it; I only feel it as a dilettante; it is a necessity in so far
as it complements every kind of pleasant and delightful sensation. It is one of my delights,
but not an all-absorbing passion; I should not like to live without it, but could not devote
my whole life to it.

As the schools at Rome left much to be desired, my father sent me to a college in Metz, where
I carried off honors and prizes with very little effort. A year before the last term, I ran
away to join Don Carlos, and with Tristan's detachment wandered for some time about the Pyrenees;
until my father, with the help of the consul in Burgos, found me, and I was sent back to Metz
to be duly punished. The penalty was not a heavy one, as my father and the teachers were secretly
proud of my escapade. A brilliant success at the examinations quickly earned me a full absolution.

Among my schoolfellows, whose sympathies were naturally with Don Carlos, I henceforth passed
as a hero; and as I was at the same time one of the foremost pupils, my position as the first
at school was beyond dispute. I was growing up with the conviction that later on, in a larger
sphere, it would be the same. This opinion was shared by my teachers and schoolfellows; and
yet the fact is that many of my schoolfellows who at one time would not have dreamed of competing
with me, occupy to-day in France high places in literary, scientific, and political spheres;
whereas I, had I to choose a profession, should feel considerably perplexed. My social position
is excellent. I possess independent means from my mother's side, shall inherit my father's
fortune in time to come, and administer the Ploszow estate more or less wisely, as the case
may be; but the very limitation of the work excludes all hope of distinguishing myself in life,
or playing any prominent part in it.

I shall never be a great administrator or agriculturist; for though I do not mean to shirk
my duties, I could not devote my whole life to them,--for the simple reason that my aspirations
aim much higher. Sometimes I ask myself whether we Ploszowskis do not delude ourselves as to
our abilities. But if such were the case, the delusion would be only personal; other people,
strangers, could not be deceived in the same way. Besides, I know that my father is an extraordinarily
gifted man. As to myself, I will not enter more fully on the subject, as it might appear mere
boastfulness; nevertheless I have the conviction that I could be something infinitely greater
than I am.

For instance, at Warsaw (my father and my aunt wished me to enter the university there) Sniatynski
and I were fellow-students. We both were drawn towards literature, and tried our hand at it.
I do not say I was looked upon as the more gifted of the two, but the truth is that my work
then was considered better and more promising than Sniatynski's. Sniatynski has for some years
past occupied a prominent position in literature, and I am still the greatly promising Pan
Ploszowski, of whom here and there people are wont to say: "If he would only take up something!"

Ah! there is the rub,--"if he would!" But they do not seem to take it into account that one
has to know how to will. I thought sometimes that if I had no means of subsistence I should
have to work. Certainly I should have to do something in order to earn my bread; but even then
I am firmly convinced I should not derive the twentieth part of advantage from my capacities.
Besides, such men as Darwin or Buckle were rich; Sir John Lubbock is a banker; most of the
known men in France are in easy circumstances. This proves that wealth is not a hindrance,
but rather a help towards attaining a proper standing in the chosen field of labor. I confess
that, as far as I am concerned, it has done me some service, as it preserved my character from
many a crookedness poverty might have exposed it to. I do not mean by this that I have a weak
character,--although struggle for existence might have made it stronger; but still I maintain
that the less stony the road, the less chance of a fall. It is not owing to constitutional
laziness, either, that I am a nullity. I possess alike a great facility for acquiring knowledge,
and a desire for it; I read much, and have a good memory. Perhaps I could not summon energy
enough for a long, slow work, but the greater facility ought to serve instead; and besides,
there is no urgent necessity for me to write encyclopedias, like Littré. He who cannot shine
with the steady light of a sun might at least dazzle as a meteor. But oh! that nothingness
of the past,--the most probable nothingness of the future! I am growing peevish--and tired;
and will leave off writing for to-day.

ROME, 10 January. I have many fellow-sufferers, not only among other Slavs, a race which I
know but imperfectly, but in my own country. But with a diary it is different; with a diary
one may be sincere.

ROME, 11 January.

The few days which remain to me before my departure I will use in retrospects of the past,
until I come to note down day after day the events of my present life. As I said before, I
do not intend to write an autobiography; who and what I am, my future life will show sufficiently.
I should not like to enter into minute details of the past,--it is a kind of adding number
to number, and a summing up. I always hated the four rules of arithmetic, and especially the
first. But I want to have a general idea of the total, so as to have a clearer view of myself.
Therefore I go on with the mere outline.

After having finished my studies at the university I went to an agricultural school in France.
The work there was easy enough, but it had no special attraction for me. I did it as one who
knows that this special branch of knowledge will be useful to him, but at the same time feels
that he lowers himself to it and that it does not respond either to his ambition or his faculties.
I derived a twofold gain from my sojourn there. Agriculture became to me familiar enough to
protect me from being cheated by any agents or bailiffs, and it strengthened my frame so that
it could withstand the life I later on led in Paris.

The years following I spent either in Koine or in Paris, not to mention short stays at Warsaw,
where my aunt summoned me now and then in order to introduce me to some special favorite of
hers with a view to matrimony.

