The cutter type of yacht will move against a wind that is blowing at a very small angle on
her bowsprit. As soon as she reaches the limit of her course, the yachtsman turns her bow at
a small angle so as to bring the wind on the opposite side of the vessel, and in this way a
second course is started. These courses are repeated in a zigzag fashion until the yacht arrives
at her destination. This zigzagging, or "tacking," as it is called, is illustrated in Fig.
141. It will be seen that the yacht starts at B, and makes 3 tacks before she arrives at her
destination, A. Each time she touches the shore she is "put about" and set upon a new course,
or "tack."

It will be understood that tacking is slow work, and a greater distance must be traveled than
would be covered by a power-boat, which would be able to go in a straight line. However, with
wind-propelled craft this is the only way in which progress can be made against the wind. The
left-hand side of a yacht viewed from the stern is called the port side, while the right-hand
side is called the starboard side. Thus a yacht sailing with the wind blowing on her port side
is on the port tack, while if the wind is blowing on the starboard side she is said to be on
the starboard tack. From this the reader will see that Fig. 142 shows an impossible case.

The sails in front of the mast that are placed nearest the stern of the yacht act in such a
manner as to turn the bows in the direction of the arrow, as illustrated in Fig. 146, and the
sail or sails abaft the mast turn the boat in the direction of the arrow A. The boat thus revolves
upon the center of the mast much as a weathercock revolves upon its pivot. If there is more
than one mast, all the sails carried abaft the mainmast serve to turn the boat in the direction
A. The work of sailing depends greatly upon the skill in balancing these two effects so that
the boat will progress in a straight line. To do this the sails are set in a greater or less
angle in relation to the center line of the boat. The less the angle that a sail makes with
the center line of the boat, the greater is its power to determine in which direction the boat
will steer. The more the yachtsman slackens out his jib and foresail, or the smaller he makes
these sails, the less their power will be to turn the boat in the direction B. On the other
hand, the larger they are and the more tightly they are pulled in, the greater will be their
power. When the mainsail and all of the sails abaft the mainsail are slackened out and the
smaller they are made, the less their power will be to swing the boat in the direction A.

The influence of a sail upon the speed of a boat also increases with the angle that it makes
with the center line of the hull. The more the yachtsman slackens out his sail, the more it
will help the boat along. The reader will see that these two conditions interfere with each
other, and therefore the trimming of the sails becomes a compromise. It is good for the young
yachtsman to remember to sail his boat with the sails as slack as possible, as long as she
keeps a good course. He should also remember not to overload her with sails, since the nearer
to an upright position she maintains the faster she will go.

It is not possible to depend entirely upon the trim of the sails to keep a model in a given
course. This is because the strength of the wind varies so that the sails are in balance one
moment and out of balance the next. The sails abaft the mainmast overpower the sails before
it when the wind increases. The result of this is that the bow of the boat will be repeatedly
turned in the direction A, Fig. 146.

Some form of automatic rudder is therefore generally used to overcome this tendency of the
yacht to "luff" in the wind. Fig. 147 shows the course of a yacht reaching from A to B. The
dotted lines show the course she should follow. The full line shows the effect of puffs of
wind, which repeatedly take her out of her course. Many times she may completely turn around
and make a similar course back to the starting-point, as in Fig. 148. There is also the danger
of her being taken back when pointing directly against the wind--the wind will force her backward
stern first for some distance, as illustrated in Fig. 149. She will do this until she manages
to get around on one tack or the other.

The dotted line B illustrates the course in which she would be driven under these conditions.
It is not practical to sail a model yacht dead before the wind without an automatic rudder.
With the use of an automatic rudder the erratic movements shown in Fig. 148 can be entirely
overcome. The action of the rudder is such that every time the boat leans over to luff up into
the wind, the weight of the rudder causes it to swing out, and thus prevents her from losing
her course. As a different type of rudder is required, according to the course in which the
yacht is sailing, the weight should be adjustable if the same rudder is used.

Let us consider scudding before the wind. For scudding the heaviest rudder should be used,
or the weight on a loaded tiller should be in its position of maximum power. All the sails
abaft the foremast should be slackened out as far as they will go, which will bring the booms
almost at right angles with the center line of the boat. If the craft is a cutter or yawl with
a light weight, the yachtsman should rig the spinnaker. The head-sails may be left slack or
can be tightened. Fig. 150 shows the position of the booms when scudding with a schooner and
yawl. The yawl is shown scudding goose winged. The cutter is illustrated with the spinnaker
set. The other craft is a two-mast lugger with balanced lugs.

Attention is now directed to "reaching." For this particular work the yachtsman should put
on a medium rudder. When using a weighted tiller the weight should be put in a midway position.
The head-sails should be pulled in fairly tight and the aft-sails made slack. The yachtsman,
however, should not slacken them as for scudding. Fig. 151 shows a schooner reaching. The thick
black lines represent the booms of the sails. If the wind is very light a spinnaker-jib may
be set or a jib-topsail in light or moderate breezes. In the case of a wind that comes over
the stern quarter, as indicated by the arrow A, the next heavier rudder, or its equivalent
in weighted tiller, should be put in operation, and the sails slackened out a little more than
before. The boat is then said to be free and sailing on the starboard tack. If the wind is
coming in the direction B the jib and foresail may require slackening and the aft sails pulled
in more than when sailing with the wind in the direction C. A still lighter rudder can be used
as the course gets near to beating windward, and the yacht is said to be close-hauled on the
starboard tack.

In beating to windward, if a rudder is used at all, it should be as light as possible, just
heavy enough to keep the boat steady. However, this is just the condition of sailing when a
boat can dispense with a rudder. It depends entirely upon the characteristics of the particular
yacht being sailed, and for this the yachtsman must depend upon his own experience. The jib-topsail
should not be used in a case like this, and if the wind is fairly strong a smaller jib should
be set than that used for reaching. It is advisable to slacken the jib and foresail out and
pull the aft-sails in somewhat tightly. Fig. 152 shows a cutter beating to windward on a port
tack. In this case she will have to pay out to starboard a bit before her sails fill.

