 Where had she stood when she came and looked
into the well and the rivulet? On what exact spot had rested her feet--those little rosy feet
that on the sea-sands used to flash through the receding foam as she chased the ebbing billows
to amuse me, while I sat between my crutches in the cove looking on? It was, I found, possible
to gaze in that water till it seemed alive with her--seemed to hold the reflection of the little
face which years ago peered anxiously into it for the behoof of the crippled child-lover pining
for her at Raxton, and unable to 'get up or down the gangways without her.'

Holywell grew to have a fascination for me, and in the following spring I left the fishing-inn
beneath Snowdon, and took rooms in this interesting old town.

VIII

One day, near the rivulet that runs from St. Winifred's Well, I suddenly encountered Sinfi Lovell.

'Sinfi,' I said, 'she's dead, she's surely dead.'

'I tell ye, brother, she ain't got to die!' said Sinfi, as she came and stood beside me. 'Winnie
Wynne's on'y got to beg her bread. She's alive.'

'Where is she?' I cried. 'Oh, Sinfi, I shall go mad!'

'There you're too fast for me, brother,' said she, 'when you ask me where she is; but she's
alive, and I ain't come quite emp'y-handed of news about her, brother.'

'Oh, tell me!' said I.

'Well,' said Sinfi, 'I've just met one of our people, Euri Lovell, as says that, the very mornin'
after we seed her on the hills, he met her close to Carnarvon at break of day.'

'Then she did go to Carnarvon,' I said. 'What a distance for those dear feet!'

'Euri knowed her by sight,' said Sinfi, 'but didn't know about her bein' under the cuss, so
he jist let her pass, sayin' to hisself, "She looks jist like a crazy wench this mornin', does
Winnie Wynne." Euri was a-goin' through Carnarvon to Bangor, on to Conway and Chester, and
never heerd a word about her bein' lost till he got back, six weeks ago.'

'I must go to Carnarvon at once,' said I.

'No use, brother,' said Sinfi. 'If I han't pretty well worked Carnarvon, it's a pity. I've
bin there the last three weeks on the patrin-chase, and not a patrin could I find. It's my
belief as she never went into Carnarvon town at all, but turned off and went into Llanbeblig
churchyard.'

'Why do you think so, Sinfi?'

''Cause her aunt, bein' a Carnarvon woman, was buried among her own kin in Llanbeblig churchyard.

Leastwise, you won't find a ghose of a trace on her at Carnarvon, and it'll be a long kind
of a wild-goose chase from here; but if you will go, go you must.'

She could not dissuade me from starting for Carnarvon at once; and, as I would go, she seemed
to take it as a matter of course that she must accompany me. Our journey was partly by coach
and partly afoot.

My first impulse on nearing Carnarvon was to go--I could not have said why--to Llanbeblig churchyard.

Among a group of graves of the Davieses we easily found that of Winifred's aunt, beneath a
newly-planted arbutus tree. After looking at the modest mound for some time, and wondering
where Winifred had stood when the coffin was lowered--as I had wondered where she had stood
at St. Winifred's Well--I roamed about the churchyard with Sinfi in silence for a time.

At last she said, 'I mind comin' here wonst with Winnie, and I mind her sayin': "There's no
place I should so much like to be buried in as Llanbeblig churchyard. The graves of them as
die unmarried do look so beautiful."'

'How did she know the graves of those who die unmarried?'

Sinfi looked over the churchyard and waved her hand.

'Wherever you see them beautiful primroses, and them shinin' snowdrops, and them sweet-smellin'
vi'lets, that's allus the grave of a child or else of a young Gorgie as died a maid; and wherever
you see them laurel trees, and box trees, and 'butus trees, that's the grave of a pusson as
ain't nuther child nor maid, an' the Welsh folk think nobody else on'y child'n an' maids ain't
quite good enough to be turned into the blessed flowers o' spring.'

'Next to the sea,' I said, 'she loved the flowers of spring.'

'And I should like to be buried here too, brother,' said Sinfi, as we left the churchyard.

'But a fine strong girl like you, Sinfi, is not very likely to die unmarried while there are
Romany bachelors about.'

'There ain't a-many Romany chals,' she said, 'as du'st marry Sinfi Lovell, even supposing as
Sinfi Lovell 'ud marry them, an' a Gorgio she'll never marry--an' never can marry. Of all the prints
I enquired for, I only got Barrere, Sieyes, and a few others of less note. Your last commissions
I have executed more successfully, for though the necessaries of life are almost unpurchaseable,
articles of taste, books, perfumery,& c. are cheaper than ever. This is unfortunately the reverse
of what ought to be the case, but the augmentation in the price of
provisions is to be accounted for in various ways, and that things
of the description I allude to do not bear a price in proportion is
doubtless to be attributed to the present poverty of those who used
to be the purchasers of them; while the people who are become rich
under the new government are of a description to seek for more substantial
luxuries than books and essences.-- I should however observe, that
the venders of any thing not perishable, and who are not forced to
sell for their daily subsistence, are solicitous to evade every demand
for any article which is to be paid for in assignats.

I was looking at some trinkets in a shop at the Palais Royal, and on my asking the mistress
of it if the ornaments were silver, she smiled significantly, and replied, she had nothing
silver nor gold in the shop, but if I chose to purchase en espece, she would show me whatever I
desired: "Mais pour le papier nous n'en avons que trop." ["In coin, but for paper we have already
too much of it."] Many of the old shops are nearly empty, and the
little trade which yet exists is carried on by a sort of adventurers
who, without being bred to any one trade, set up half a dozen, and
perhaps disappear three months afterwards. I'll tell you what I think about Winnie an' the chances o' findin' her, brother,
and that'll intrust you more.'

'What is it, Sinfi?' I cried, waking up from the reminiscences, bitter and sweet, the bright
moon had conjured up in my mind.

'Well, brother, Winnie, you see, was very fond o' me.'

'She was, and good reason for being fond of you she had.'

'Well, brother, bein' very fond o' me, that made her very fond o' all Romanies; and though
she took agin me at fust, arter the cuss, as she took agin you because we was her closest friends
(that's what Mr. Blyth said, you know, they allus do), she wouldn't take agin Romanies in general.
No, she'd take to Romanies in general, and she'd go hangin' about the different camps, and
she'd soon be snapped up, being so comely, and they'd make a lot o' money out on her jist havin'
her with 'em for the "dukkerin'."'

'I don't understand you,' I said.

'Well, you know,' said Sinfi, 'anybody as is under the cuss is half with the sperrits and half
with us, and so can tell the real "dukkerin'." Only it's bad for a Romany to have another Romany
in the "place" as is under the cuss; but it don't matter a bit about having a Gorgio among
your breed as is under a cuss; for Gorgio cuss can't never touch Romany.'

'Then you feel quite sure she's not dead, Sinfi?'

'She's jist as live as you an' me somewheres, brother. There's two things as keeps her alive:
there's the cuss, as says she's got to beg her bread, and there's the dukkeripen o' the Golden
Hand on Snowdon, as says she's got to marry you.'

'But, Sinfi, I mean that, apart from all this superstition of yours, you have reason to think
she's alive? and you think she's with the Romanies?'

'I know she's alive, and I think she's with the Romanies. She must be, brother, with the Shaws,
or the Lees, or the Stanleys, or the Boswells, or some on 'em.'

'Then,' said I, 'I'll turn Gypsy; I'll be the second Aylwin to own allegiance to the blood
of Fenella Stanley. I'll scour Great Britain till I find her.'

'You can jine us if you like, brother. We're goin' all through the West of England with the
gries. You're fond o' fishin' an' shootin', brother, an' though you're a Gorgio, you can't
help bein' a Gorgio, and you ain't a mumply 'un, as I've said to Jim Burton many's the time;
and if you can't give the left-hand body-blow like me, there ain't a-many Gorgios nor yit a-many
Romanies as knows better nor you what their fistes wur made for, an' altogether, brother, Beng
te tassa mandi if I shouldn't be right-on proud to see ye jine our breed. There's a coachmaker
down in Chester, and he's got for sale the beautifullest livin'-waggin in all England. It's
shiny orange-yellow with red window-blinds, an' if there's a colour in any rainbow as can't
be seed in the panels o' the front door, it's a kind o' rainbow I ain't never seed nowheres.
He made it for Jericho Bozzell, the rich Griengro as so often stays at Raxton and at Gypsy
Dell; but Rhona Bozzell hates a waggin and allus will sleep in a tent. They do say as the Prince
o' Wales wants to buy that livin'-waggin, only he can't spare the balansers just now--his family
bein' so big an' times bein' so bad. How much money ha' you got? Can you stan' a hundud an'
fifty gold balansers for the waggin besides the fixins?

'Shift,' I said. 'I'm prepared to spend more than that in seeking Winnie.'

'Dordi, brother, you must be as rich as my dad, an' lie's the richest Griengro arter Jericho
Bozzell. You an' me'll jist go down to Chester,' she continued, her eyes sparkling with delight
at the prospect of bargaining for the waggon, 'an' we'll fix up sich a livin'-waggin as no
Romany rei never had afore.'

'Agreed!' I said, wringing her hand.

'An' now you an' me's right pals,' said Sinfi.

We went to Chester, and I became owner of the famous 'livin'-waggin' coveted (according to
Sinfi) by the great personage whom, on account of his name, she always spoke of as a rich,
powerful, but mysterious and invisible Welshman. One of the monthly cheese-fairs was going
on in the Linen Hall. Among the rows of Welsh carts standing in front of the 'Old Yacht Inn,'
Sinfi introduced me to a 'Griengro' (one of the Gypsy Locks of Gloucestershire), of whom I
bought a bay mare of extraordinary strength and endurance.

IX

It was, then, to find Winifred that I joined the Gypsies. And yet I will not deny that affinity
with the kinsfolk of my ancestress Fenella Stanley must have had something to do with this
passage in my eccentric life. That strain of Romany blood which, according to my mother's theory,
had much to do with drawing Percy Aylwin and Rhona Boswell together, was alive and potent in
my own veins.

But I must pause here to say a few words about Sinfi Lovell. Some of my readers must have already
recognised her as a famous character in bohemian circles. Sinfi's father was a 'Griengro,'
that is to say, a horse-dealer. She was, indeed, none other than that 'Fiddling Sinfi' who
became famous in many parts of England and Wales as a violinist, and also as the only performer
on the old Welsh stringed instrument called the 'crwth,' or cruth. Most Gypsies are musical,
but Sinfi was a genuine musical genius. Having become, through the good-nature of Winifred's
aunt Mrs. Davies, the possessor of a crwth, and having been taught by her the unique capabilities
of that rarely seen instrument, she soon learnt the art of fascinating her Welsh patrons by
the strange, wild strains she could draw from it. This obsolete six-stringed instrument (with
two of the strings reaching beyond the key-board, used as drones and struck by the thumb, the
bow only being used on the other four, and a bridge placed, not at right angles to the sides
of the instrument, but in an oblique direction), though in some important respects inferior
to the violin, is in other respects superior to it. Heard among the peaks of Snowdon, as I
heard them during our search for Winifred, the notes of the crwth have a wonderful wildness
and pathos. It is supposed to have the power of drawing the spirits when a maiden sings to
its accompaniment a mysterious old Cymric song or incantation.

Among her own people it was as a seeress, as an adept in the real dukkering--the dukkering
for the Romanies, as distinguished from the false dukkering, the dukkering for the Gorgios--that
Sinfi's fame was great. She had travelled over nearly all England--wherever, in short, there
were horse-fairs--and was familiar with London, where in the studios of artists she was in
request as a face model of extraordinary value. Nor were these all the characteristics that
distinguished her from the common herd of Romany chies: she was one of the few Gypsies of either
sex who could speak with equal fluency both the English and Welsh Romanes, and she was in the
habit sometimes of mixing the two dialects in a most singular way. Though she had lived much
in Wales, and had a passionate love of Snowdon, she belonged to a famous branch of the Lovells
whose haunt had for ages been in Wales and also the East Midlands, and she had caught entirely
the accent of that district.

Among artists in London, as I afterwards learnt, she often went by the playful name of 'Lady
Sinfi Lovell,' for the following reason:

She was extremely proud, and believed the 'Kaulo Camloes' to represent the aristocracy not
only of the Gypsies, but of the world. Moreover, she had of late been brought into close contact
with a certain travelling band of Hungarian Gypsy-musicians, who visited England some time
ago. Intercourse with these had fostered her pride in a curious manner. The musicians are the
most intelligent and most widely-travelled not only of the Hungarian Gypsies, but of all the
Romany race. They are darker than the sátoros czijányok, or tented Gypsies. The Lovells being
the darkest of all the Gypsies of Great Britain (and the most handsome, hence called Kaulo
Camloes), it was easy to make out an affinity closer than common between the Lovells and the
Hungarian musicians. Sinfi heard much talk among the Hungarians of the splendours of the early
leaders of the continental Romanies. She was told of Romany kings, dukes, and counts. She accepted,
with that entire faith which characterised her, the stories of the exploits of Duke Michael,
Duke Andreas, Duke Panuel, and the rest. It only needed a hint from one of her continental
friends, that her father, Panuel Lovell, was probably a descendant of Duke Panuel, for Sinfi
to consider him a Duke. From that moment she felt as strongly as any Gorgie ever felt the fine
sentiment expressed in the phrase, noblesse oblige; and to hear her say, 'I'm a duke's chavi
[daughter], and mustn't do so and so,' was a delightful and refreshing experience to me. Poor
Panuel groaned under these honours, for Sinfi insisted now on his dressing in a brown velveteen
coat, scarlet waistcoat with gold coins for buttons, and the high-crowned, ribbon-bedizened
hat which prosperous Gypsies once used to wear. She seemed to consider that her sister Videy
(whose tastes were low for a Welsh Gypsy) did not belong to the high aristocracy, though born
of the same father and mother. Moreover, 'dook' in Romanes means spirit, ghost, and very likely
Sinfi found some power of association in this fact; for Videy was a born sceptic.

One of the special charms of Gypsy life is that a man fully admitted into the Romany brotherhood
can be on terms of close intimacy with a Gypsy girl without awaking the smallest suspicion
of love-making or flirtation; at least it was so in my time.

Under my father's will, a considerable legacy had come to me, and, after going to London to
receive this, I made the circuit of the West of England with Sinfi's people. No sign whatever
of Winifred did I find in any of the camps. I was for returning to Wales, where my thoughts
always were; but I could not expect Sinfi to leave her family, so I started thither alone,
leaving my waggon in their charge. Before I reached Wales, however, I met in the eastern part
of Cheshire, not far from Moreton Hall, some English Lees, with whom I got into talk about
the Hungarian musicians, who were here then on another flying visit to England. Something that
dropped from one of the Lees as to the traditions and superstitions of the Hungarian Gypsies
with regard to people suffering from dementia set me thinking; and at last I came to the conclusion
that if I really believed Winifred to have taken shelter among the Romanies, it would be absurd
not to follow up a band like these Hungarians. Accordingly I changed my course, and followed
them up. On coming upon them in a famous English camping-place I found the Lovells and the
Boswells. Rhona, dressed in gorgeous attire, evidently purchased at some second-hand shop,
was rehearsing the shawl-dance for a great occasion at a neighbouring fair. But no Winifred.

My health was now much impaired by sleeplessness (the inevitable result of my anxiety), and
by a narcotic, which from the commencement of my troubles I had been in the habit of taking
in ever-increasing doses--a terrible narcotic, one of whose multitudinous effects is that of
sending all the patient's thoughts circling around one central idea like planets round the
sun. Painful and agonising as had been my suspense,--my oscillation between hope and dread,--during
my wanderings with the Lovells, these wanderings had not been without their moments of comfort,
for all of which I had been indebted to Sinfi. She would sit with me in an English lane, under
a hedge or tree, on a balmy summer evening, or among the primroses, wild hyacinths, buttercups
and daisies of the sweet meadows, chattering her reminiscences of Winifred. She would mostly
end by saying: 'Winnie was very fond on ye, brother, and we shall find her yit. The Golden
Hand on Snowdon wasn't there for nothink. The dukkeripen says you'll marry her yit; a love
like yourn can follow the tryenest patrin as ever wur laid.' Then she would play on her crwth
and say, 'Ah, brother, I shall be able to make this crwth bring ye a sight o' Winnie's livin'
mullo if she's alive, and there ain't a sperrit of the hills as wouldn't answer to it.'

Of Gorgios generally, however, Sinfi had at heart a feeling somewhat akin to dread. I could
not understand it.

'Why do you dislike the Gorgios, Sinfi?' I said to her one day on Lake Ogwen, after the return
of the Lovells to Wales. We were trout-fishing from a boat anchored to a heavy block of granite
which she had fastened to a rope and heaved overboard with a strength that would have surpassed
that of most Englishwomen.

'That's nuther here nor there, brother,' she replied mysteriously. So months and months dragged
by, and brought no trace of Winifred.

IV

THE LEADER OF THE AYLWINIANS

I

One day as Sinfi and I were strolling through the lovely glades between Capel Curig and Bettws
y Coed, on our way to a fishing-place, we sat down by a stream to eat some bread and cheese
we had brought with us.

The sunlight, as it broke here and there between the thick foliage, was playing upon the little
cascades in such magical fashion--turning the water into a torrent that seemed as though molten
rubies and sapphires and opals were ablaze in one dancing faery stream,--that even the dark
tragedy of human life seemed enveloped for a moment in an atmosphere of poetry and beauty.
Sinfi gazed at it silently, then she said:

'This is the very place where Winnie wonst tried to save a hernshaw as wur wounded. She wur
tryin' to ketch hold on it, as the water wur carryin' it along, and he pretty nigh beat her
to death wi' his wings for her pains. It wur then as she come an' stayed along o' us for a
bit, an' she got to be as fond o' my crwth as you be's, an' she used to say that if there wur
any music as 'ud draw her sperrit hack to the airth arter she wur dead it 'ud be the sound
o' my crwth; but there she wur wrong as wrong could be: Romany music couldn't never touch Gorgio
sperrit; 'tain't a bit likely. But it can draw her livin' mullo [wraith].' And as she spoke
she began to play her crwth pizzicato and to sing the opening bars of the old Welsh incantation
which I had heard on Snowdon on that never-to-be-forgotten morning.

This, as usual, sent my mind at once back to the picture of Fenella Stanley calling round her
by the aid of her music the spirits of Snowdon. And then a strange hallucination came upon
me, that made me clutch at Sinfi's arm. Close by her, reflected in a little glassy pool divided
off from the current by a ring of stones, two blue eyes seemed gazing. Then the face and the
entire figure of Winifred appeared, but Winifred dressed as a beggar girl in rags, Winifred
standing at a street corner holding out matches for sale.

'Winifred!' I exclaimed; and then the hallucination passed, and Sinfi's features were reflected
in the water. My exclamation had the strangest effect upon Sinfi. Her lips, which usually wore
a peculiarly proud and fearless curve, quivered, and were losing the brilliant rosebud redness
which mostly characterised them. The little blue tattoo rosettes at the corners of her mouth
seemed to be growing more distinct as she gazed in the water through eyes dark and mysterious
as Night's, but, like Night's own eyes, ready, I thought, to call up the throbbing fires of
a million stars.

'What made you cry out "Winifred"?' she said, as the music ceased.

'What you told me about the spirits following the crwth was causing the strangest dream,' I
answered. 'I thought I saw Winnie's face reflected in the water, and I thought she was in awful
distress. And all the time it was your face.'

'That wur her livin' mullo,' said Sinfi solemnly.

Convinced though I was that the hallucination was the natural result of Sinfi's harping upon
the literal fulfilment of the curse, it depressed me greatly.

Close to this beautiful spot we came suddenly upon two tourists sketching. And now occurred
one of those surprises of which I have found that real life is far more full than any fiction
dares to be. As we passed the artists, I heard one call out to the other, with a 'burr' which
I will not attempt to render, having never lived in the 'Black Country':

'You have a true eye for composition; what do you think of this tree?'

The speaker's remarkable appearance attracted my attention.

'Well,' said I to Sinfi, 'that's the first time I ever saw a painter shaven and dressed in
a coat like a Quaker's.'

Sinfi looked across at the speaker through the curling smoke from my pipe, gave a start of
surprise, and then said: 'So you've never seed him? That's because you're a country Johnny,
brother, and don't know nothink about Londra life. That's a friend o' mine from Londra as has
painted me many's the time.'

'Painted you?' I said; 'the man in black, with the goggle eyes, squatting there under the white
umbrella? What's his name?'

'That's the cel'erated Mr. Wilderspin, an' he's painted me many's the time, an' a rare rum
'un he is too. Dordi! it makes me laugh to think on him. Most Gorgios is mad, more or less,
but he's the maddest 'un I ever know'd.'

We had by this time got close to the painter's companion, who, sitting upright on his camp-stool,
was busy with his brush. Without shifting his head to look at us, or removing his eyes from
his work, he said, in a voice of striking power and volume: 'Nothing but an imperfect experience
of life, Lady Sinfi, could have made you pronounce our friend there to be the maddest Gorgio
living.'

'Dordi!' exclaimed Sinfi, turning sharply round in great astonishment. 'Fancy seein' both on
'em here!'

'Mad our friend is, no doubt, Lady Sinfi,' said the painter, without looking round, 'but not
so mad as certain illustrious Gorgios I could name, some of them born legislators and some
of them (apparently) born. R.A.'s.'

'Who should ha' thought of seein' 'em both here?' said Sinfi again.

'That,' said the painter, without even  yet turning to look at us or staying the movement of
his brush, 'is a remark I never make in a little dot of a world like this, Lady Sinfi, where
I expect to see everybody everywhere. But, my dear Romany chi,' he continued, now turning slowly
round, 'in passing your strictures upon the Gorgio world, you should remember that you belong
to a very limited aristocracy, and that your remarks may probably fall upon ears of an entirely
inferior and Gorgio convolution.'

'No offence, I hope.' said Sinfi.

'Offence in calling the Gorgios mad? Not the smallest, save that you have distinctly plagiarised
from me in your classification of the Gorgio race.'

His companion called out again. 'Just one moment! Do come and look at the position of this tree.'

'In a second, Wilderspin, in a second,' said the other. 'An old friend and myself are in the
midst of a discussion.'

'A discussion!' said the person addressed as Wilderspin. 'And with whom, pray?'

'With Lady Sinfi Lovell,--a discussion as to the exact value of your own special kind of madness
in relation to the tomfooleries of the Gorgio mind in general.'

'Kekka! kekka!' said Sinfi, 'you shouldn't have said that.'

'And I was on the point of proving to her ladyship that in these days, when Art has become
genteel, and even New Grub Street "decorates" her walls--when success means not so much painting
fine pictures as building fine houses to paint in--the greatest compliment you can pay to a
man of genius is surely to call him either a beggar or a madman.'

The peculiarity of this 'chaff' was that it was uttered in a simple and serious tone, in which
not the faintest tinge of ironical intent was apparent. The other artist looked across and
said: 'Dear me! Sinfi Lovell! I am pleased to see you, Sinfi. I will ask you for a sitting
to-morrow. A study of your head would be very suggestive among the Welsh hills.'

The man who had been 'chaffing' Sinfi then rose and walked towards his Quaker-like companion,
and I had an opportunity of observing him fully. I saw that he was a spare man, wearing a brown
velvet coat and a dark felt hat. The collar of the coat seemed to have been made carefully
larger than usual, in order to increase the apparent width of his chest. His hair was brown
and curly, but close cut. His features were regular, perhaps handsome. His complexion was bright,--fair
almost,--rosy in hue, and his eyes were brown.

He shook hands with Sinfi as he passed us, and gave me a glance of that rapid and all-comprehending
kind which seems to take in, at once, a picture in its every detail.

'What do you think of him?' said Sinfi to me, as he passed on and we two sat down on the grass
by the side of the stream.

'I am puzzled,' I replied, 'to know whether he is a young man who looks like a middle-aged
one, or a middle-aged man who looks like a young one. How's his hair under the hat?'

'Thinnish atop,' said Sinfi laconically. 'And I'm puzzled,' I added, still looking at him as
he walked over the grass, 'as to whether he's a little man who looks middle-sized, or a middle-sized
man who looks little.'

'He's a little big 'un,' said Sinfi; 'about the height o' Rhona Bozzell's Tarno Rye.'

'Altogether he puzzles me, Sinfi!'

'He puzzled me same way at fust.'

What was it that made me take an interest so strange, strong, and sudden in this man? Without
a hint of hair upon his face, while juvenile curls clustered thick and short beneath his wide-awake,
he had at first struck me as being not much more than a lad, till, as he gave me that rapid,
searching glance in passing, I perceived the little crow's-feet round his eyes, and he then
struck me immediately as being probably on the verge of thirty-five. His figure was slim and
thin, his waist almost girlish in its fall. I should have considered him small had not the
unusually deep, loud, manly, and sonorous voice with which he had accosted Sinfi conveyed an
impression of size and weight such as even big men do not often produce. This deep voice, coupled
with that gaunt kind of cheek which we associate with the most demure people, produced an effect
of sedateness such as I should have expected to find (and did not find) in the other man--the
man of the shaven cheek and Quaker costume; but, in the one glance I had got from those watchful,
sagacious, twinkling eyes, there was an expression quite peculiar to them, quite inscrutable,
quite indescribable.

II

'Can you reckon him up, brother?' said Sinfi, taking my meerschaum from my lips to refill it
for me, as she was fond of doing.

'No.'

'Nor I nuther,' said Sinfi. 'Nor I can't pen his dukkerin' nuther, though often's the time
I've tried it.'

During this time the two friends seemed to have finished their colloquy upon 'composition';
for they both came up to us. Sinfi rose; I sat still on the grass, smoking my pipe, listening
to the chatter of the water as it rushed over the rocks. By this time my curiosity in the younger
man had died away. My mind was occupied with the dream-picture of a little blue-eyed girl struggling
with a wounded heron. I had noticed, however, that he of the piercing eyes did not look at
me again, having entirely exhausted at a glance such interest as I had momentarily afforded
him; while his companion seemed quite unconscious of my presence as he stood there, his large,
full, deep, brown eyes gazing apparently at something over my head, a long way off. Also I
had noticed that 'Visionary' was stamped upon this man's every feature--that he seemed an inspired
baby of forty, talking there to his companion and to Sinfi, the sun falling upon his long,
brown, curly hair, mixed with grey, which fell from beneath his hat, and floated around his
collar like a mane.

When my reverie had passed, I found the artists trying to arrange with Sinfi to give an open-air
sitting to one of them, the man addressed as Wilderspin. Sinfi seemed willing enough to come
to terms; but I saw her look round at me as if saying to herself, 'What am I to do with you?'

'I should like for my brother to sit too,' I heard her say.

'Surely!' said Wilderspin. 'Your brother would be a great gain to my picture.'

Sinfi then came to me, and said that the painter wanted me to sit to him.

'But,' said I in an undertone, 'the Gorgios will certainly find out that I am no Romany.'

'Not they,' said Sinfi, 'the Gorgios is sich fools. Why, bless you, a Gorgio ain't got eves
and ears like a Romany. You don't suppose as a Gorgio can hear or see or smell like a Romany can?'

'But you forget, Sinfi, that I am a Gorgio, and there are not many Romanies can boast of better
senses than your brother Hal.'

'Dordi!' said Sinfi, 'that's jist like your mock-modesty. Your great-grandmother wur a Romany,
and it's my belief that if you only went back fur enough, you'd find you had jist as good Romany
blood in your veins as I have, and my daddy is a duke, you know, a real, reg'lar, out-an'-out
Romany duke.'

'I'm afraid you flatter me, sister,' I replied. 'However, let's try the Gorgios;' and I got
up and walked with her close to the two sketchers.

Wilderspin was on the point of engaging me, when the other man, without troubling to look at
me again, said:

'He's no more a Romany than I am.'

'Ain't a Romany?' said Sinfi. 'Who says my brother ain't a Romany? Where did you ever see a
Gorgio with a skin like that?' she said, triumphantly pulling up my sleeve and exposing one
of my wrists. 'That ain't sunburn, that's the real Romany brown, an' we's twinses, only I'm
the biggest, an' we's the child'n of a duke, a real, reg'lar, out-an'-out Romany duke.'

He gave a glance at the exposed wrist.

'As to the Romany brown,' said he, 'a little soap would often make a change in the best Romany
brown--ducal or other.'

'Why, look at his neck,' said Sinfi, turning down my neckerchief; 'is that sunburn, or is it
Romany brown, I should like to know?'

'I assure you,' said the speaker, still addressing her in the same grave, measured voice, 'that
the Romanies have no idea what a little soap can do with the Romany brown.'

'Do you mean to say,' cried Sinfi, now entirely losing her temper (for on the subject of Romany
cleanliness she, the most cleanly of women, was keenly sensitive)--'do you mean to say as the
Romany dials an' the Romany dries don't wash theirselves? I know what you fine Gorgios do say,--you're
allus a-tellin' lies about us Romanies. Brother,' she cried, turning now to me in a great fury,
'I'm a duke's chavi, an' mustn't fight no mumply Gorgios; why don't you take an' make his bed
for him?'

And certainly the man's supercilious impertinence was beginning to irritate me.

'I should advise you to withdraw that about the soap,' I said quietly, looking at him.

'Oh! and if I don't?'

'Why, then I suppose I must do as my sister bids,' said I. 'I must make your bed,' pointing
to the grass beneath his feet. 'But I think it only fair to tell you that I am somewhat of
a fighting man, which you probably are not.'

'You mean...?' said he (turning round menacingly, but with no more notion of how to use his
fists than a lobster).

'I mean that we should not be fighting on equal terms,' I said.

'In other words,' said he, 'you mean...?' and he came nearer.

'In other words, I mean that, judging from the way in which you are advancing towards me now,
the result of such an encounter might not tend to the honour and glory of the British artist
in Wales.'

'But,' said he, 'you are no Gypsy. Who are you?'

'My name is Henry Aylwin,' said I; 'and I must ask you to withdraw your words about the virtues
of soap, as my sister objects to them.'

'What?' cried he, losing for the first time his matchless sang-froid. 'Henry Aylwin?' Then
he looked at me in silent amazement, while an expression of the deepest humorous enjoyment
overspread his features, making them positively shine as though oiled. Finally, he burst into
a loud laugh, that was all the more irritating from the manifest effort he made to restrain it.

'Did I hear His Majesty of Gypsydom aright?' he said, as soon as his hilarity allowed him to
speak. 'Is the humble bed of a mere painter to be made for him by the representative of the
proud Aylwins, the genteel Aylwins, the heir-presumptive Aylwins--the most respectable branch
of a most respectable family, which, alas! has its ungenteel, its bohemian, its vulgar offshoots?
Did I hear His Majesty of Gypsydom aright?'

He leant against a tree, and gave utterance to peal after peal of laughter.

I advanced with rapidly rising anger, but his hilarity had so overmastered him that he did
not heed it.

'Wilderspin,' cried he, 'come here! Pray come here. Have I not often told you the reason why
I threw up my engagement with my theatrical manager, and missed my high vocation in ungenteel
comedy? Have I not often told you that it sprang from no disrespect to my friends, the comic
actors, but from the feeling that no comedian can hope to be comic enough to compete with the
real thing--the true harlequinade of everyday life, roaring and screaming around me wherever I go?'

Then, without waiting for his companion's reply, he turned to me, and giving an added volume
to his sonorous voice, said:

'And you, Sir King, do you know whose bed Your Majesty was going to make at the bidding of--well,
of a duke's chavi?'

I advanced with still growing anger. 'Stay, King Bamfylde, stay,' said he; 'shall the beds
of the mere ungenteel Aylwins, "the outside Aylwins," be made by the high Gypsy-gentility of
Raxton?'

A light began to break in upon me. 'Surely,' I said, 'surely you are not Cyril Aylwin, the------?'

'Pray finish your sentence, sir, and say the low bohemian painter, the representative of the
great ungenteel--the successor to the Aylwin peerage.'

The other painter, looking in blank amazement at my newly-found kinsman's extraordinary merriment,
exclaimed, 'Bless me! Then you really can laugh aloud, Mr. Cyril. What has happened? What can
have happened to make my dear friend laugh aloud?'

'Well he may ask,' said Cyril, turning to me. 'He knows that ever since I was a boy in jackets
I have despised the man who, in a world where all is so comic, could select any particular
point of the farce for his empty guffaw. But I am conquered at last. Let me introduce you,
Wilderspin, to my kinsman, Henry Aylwin of Raxton Hall, alias Lord Henry Lovell of Little Egypt--one
of Duke Panuel's interesting twinses.'

But Wilderspin's astonishment, apparently, was not at the rencontre: it was at the spectacle
of his companion's hilarity. 'Wonderful!' he murmured, with his eyes still fastened upon Cyril.
'My dear friend can laugh aloud. Most wonderful! What can have happened?'

This is what had happened. By one of those strange coincidences which make the drama of real
life far more wonderful than the drama of any stage, I, in my character of wandering Gypsy,
had been thrown across the path of the bête noire of my mother and aunt, Cyril Aylwin, a painter
of bohemian proclivities, who (under the name of 'Cyril') had obtained some considerable reputation. At
a spot where fell the shadow of the church when the sun sank far westerly on summer days, they
dug the grave in Sancreed churchyard. Round about it on slate slabs and upright stones appeared the
names of Chirgwins not a few. Her maternal grandparents lay there, her uncle, Mary's father, and
many others. Some of the graves dated back for a hundred and more
years.

On the morning of the funeral, Uncle Thomas himself tied scraps of
crape around the stems of his tall geraniums, according to an ancient
custom; and Mrs. Tregenza arrived at Drift in good time to join the
few who mourned.

Six men bore Joan's oaken coffin to Sancreed, while there walked behind her, Uncle Chirgwin,
Mary and Thomasin, Mr. Bartlett, his wife, Gaffer Polglaze, and two
farm maidens. Lady Sinfi,' he continued, turning to her, 'they say this brother of yours
is a character, and, by Jove! he is. And as to you, dear lady, I am proud of the family connection.
The man who has two Romany Rye kinsmen may be excused for showing a little pride. I withdraw
every word about the virtues of soap, and am convinced that it can do nothing with the true
Romany-Aylwin brown.'

On that we shook hands all round. 'But, Sinfi,' said I, 'why did you not tell me that this
was my kinsman?'

''Cause I didn't know,' said she. 'I han't never seed him since I've know'd you. I always heerd
his friends call him Cyril, and so I used to call him Mr. Cyril.'

'But, Lady Sinfi, my Helen of Little Egypt,' said Cyril, 'suppose that in my encounter with
my patrician cousin--an encounter which would have been entirely got up in honour of you--suppose
it had happened that I had made your brother's bed for him?'

'You  make his  bed!' exclaimed Sinfi, laughing.

'Dordi! how you would ha' went down afore the Swimmin' Rei!' [Footnote]

[Footnote: By the Welsh Gypsies, but few of whom can swim, I was called 'the Swimmin' Rei,'
a name which would have been far more appropriately given to Percy Aylwin (Rhona Boswell's
lover), one of the strongest swimmers in England; but he was simply called the Tarno Rye (the
young gentleman).]

'But suppose that, on the contrary, he had gone down before me,' said Cyril; 'suppose I had
been the death of your Swimming Rei, I should have been tried for the wilful murder of a prince
of Little Egypt, the son of a Romany duke. Why, Helen of Troy was not half so mischievous a
beauty as you.'

'You was safe enough, no fear,' said Sinfi. 'It 'ud take six o' you to settle the Swimmin' Rei.'

I found that Cyril and his strange companion were staying at 'The Royal Oak,' at Bettws y Coed.
They asked me to join them, but when I told them I 'could not leave my people, who were encamped
about two miles off,' Cyril again looked at me with an expression of deepest enjoyment, and
exclaimed 'delightful creature.'

Turning to Sinfi, he said: 'Then we'll go with you and call upon the noble father of the twins,
my old friend King Panuel.'

'He ain't a king,' said Sinfi modestly; 'he's only a duke.'

'You'll give us some tea, Lady Sinfi?' said Cyril.

'No tea equal to Gypsy tea.'

'Romany tea, Mr. Cyril,' replied Sinfi, with perfect dignity and grace. 'My daddy, the duke,
will be pleased to welcome you.'

We all strolled towards the tents. I offered to carry an umbrella and a camp-stool. Cyril walked
briskly away with Sinfi, leaving me to get on with Wilderspin as best I could. Before the other
two were out of earshot, however, I heard Cyril say,

'You shouldn't have taken so seriously my chaff about the soap, Sinfi. You ought to know me
better by this time than to think that I would really insult you.'

'How you would ha' went down afore the Swimmin' Rei!' replied Sinfi regretfully.

III

Between my new companion, Wilderspin, and myself there was an awkward silence for some time.
He was evidently in a brown study. I had ample opportunity for examining his face. Deeply impressed
upon his forehead there was, as I now perceived, an ancient scar of a peculiar shape. At last,
a lovely bit of scenery broke the spell, and conversation began to flow freely.

We had nearly got within sight of the encampment when he said,

'I am in some perplexity, sir, about the various branches of your family. Aylwin, I need not
tell you, was the name of the greatest man of this age, and I am anxious to know what is exactly
your connection with him.'

'You surprise me,' I said. 'Out of our own family, in its various branches, there is, I have
been told, no very large number of Aylwins, and I had no idea that one of them had become famous.'

'I did not say famous, sir, but great; two very different words. Yet, in a certain deep sense,
it may be said of Philip Aylwin's name that since his lamented death it has even become famous.
The Aylwinians (of which body I am, as you are no doubt aware, founder and president) are,
I may say, becoming--'

'Philip Aylwin!' I said. 'Why, that was my father. He famous!'

The recollection of the essay upon 'Hamalet and Hamlet,' the thought of the brass-rubbings,
the kneecaps and mittens, came before me in an irresistibly humorous light, and I could not
repress a smile. Then arose upon me the remembrance of the misery that had fallen upon Winnie
and myself from his monomania and what seemed to me his superstitious folly, and I could not
withhold an angry scowl. Then came the picture of the poor scarred breast, the love-token,
and the martyrdom that came to him who had too deeply loved, and smile and frown both passed
from my face as I murmured,--'Poor father! he famous!

'Philip Aylwin's son!' said Wilderspin, staring at me. Then, raising his hat as reverentially
to me as if I had been the son of Shakespeare himself, he said, 'Mr. Aylwin, since Mary Wilderspin
went home to heaven, the one great event of my life has been the reading of The Veiled Queen,
your father's book of inspired wisdom upon the modern Renascence of Wonder in the mind of Man.
To apply his principles to Art, sir--to give artistic rendering to the profound idea hinted
at in the marvellous vignette on the title-page of his third edition--has been, for some time
past, the proud task of my life. And you are the great man's son! Astonishing! Although his
great learning overwhelms my mind and appals my soul (whom, indeed, should it not overwhelm
and appal?) there is not a pamphlet of his that I do not know intimately, almost by heart.'

'Including the paper on "Hamlet and Hamalet, and the wide region of Nowhere"?'

'Including that and everything.'

'Did you know him, Mr. Wilderspin?'

'Not in the flesh; in the spirit, who knows him so well? Your mother I have had the pleasure
of meeting at the house of Lord Sleaford, and indeed I have had the distinguished honour of
painting her portrait; but the great author of The Veiled Queen--the inspired designer of the
vignette symbolical of the Renascence of Wonder in Art--I never had the rapture of seeing.
This very day, the anniversary of his birth,' he continued, 'is a great day in the Aylwinian
calendar.'

'My father's birthday? Why, so it is!'

'Mr. Aylwin, is it possible that the anniversary of a day so momentous for the world is forgotten--forgotten
by the very issue of the great man's loins?'

'The fact is,' said I, in some confusion, 'I have been living with the Gypsies, and, you see,
Mr. Wilderspin, the passage of time--'

'The son of Philip Aylwin a Gypsy!' murmured Wilderspin meditatively, and unconscious evidently
that he was speaking aloud--'a Gypsy! Still it would surely be a mistake to suppose,' he continued,
perfectly oblivious now of my presence, 'that the vagaries of his son can really bring shame
upon the head of the father.'

'But, by God!' I cried, 'it is no mistake that the vagaries of the father can bring shame and
sorrow and misery upon the child. I could name a couple of fathers--sleeping very close to
each other now--whose vagaries--'

My sudden anger was carrying me away; but I stopped, recollecting myself.

'Doubtless,' said Wilderspin, 'there are fathers and fathers. The son of Philip Aylwin has
assuredly a right to be critical in regard to all other fathers than his own.'

I looked in his face; the expression of solemn earnestness was quite unmistakable.

'It is not you,' I said, 'it is Heaven, or else it is the blind jester Circumstance, that is
playing this joke upon me!'

'To your honoured father,' he continued, taking not the slightest notice of my interjection,
'I owe everything. From his grave he supports my soul; from his grave he gives me ideas; from
his grave he makes my fame. How should I fail to honour his son, even though he--'

Of course he was going to add--'even though he be a vagabond associating with vagabonds,'--but
he left the sentence unfinished.

'I confess, Mr. Wilderspin,' said I, 'that you speak in such enigmas that it would be folly
for me to attempt to answer you.'

'I wish,' said Wilderspin, 'that all enigmas were as soluble as this. Let me ask you a question,
sir. When you stood before my picture, "Faith and Love," in Bond Street, did you not perceive
that both it and the predella were inspired entirely by your father's great work, The Veiled
Queen, or rather that they are mere pictorial renderings and illustrations of that grand effort
of man's soul in its loftiest development?'

I had never heard of the picture in question. As for the book, my father, perceiving my great
dislike of mysticism, had always shrunk from showing me any effusion of his that was not of
a simply antiquarian kind. In Switzerland, however, after his death, while waiting for the
embalmer to finish his work, I had become, during a few days' reading, acquainted with The
Veiled Queen. It was a new edition containing an 'added chapter,' full of subtle spiritualistic
symbols. Amid what had seemed to me mere mystical jargon about the veil of Isis being uplifted,
not by Man's reason, not by such researches as those of Darwin, Huxley, Spencer, and the continental
evolutionists, but by Faith and Love, I had come across passages of burning eloquence.

'I am sorry to say,' I replied, 'that my Gypsy wanderings are again answerable for my shortcomings.
I have not yet seen your picture. When I do see it I--'

'Not seen "Faith and Love" and the equally wonderful predella at the foot of it!' he exclaimed
incredulously. 'Ah, but you have been living among the Gypsies.

'Of the school of Blake? No. He was on the right road; but he was a writer of verses! Art is
a jealous mistress, Mr. Aylwin: the painter who rhymes is lost. Even the master himself is
so much the weaker by every verse he has written. I never could make a rhyme in my life, and
have faithfully shunned printer's ink, the black blight of the painter. I am my own school;
the school of the spirit world.'

'I am very curious,' I said, 'to know in what way my father and the spirits can have inspired
a great painter. Of the vignette I may claim to know something. Of the spirits as artists I
have of course no knowledge, but as regards my father, he, I am certain, could hardly have
told a Raphael from a chromolithograph copy. He was, in spite of that same vignette, most ignorant
of art. Raxton Hall possesses nothing but family portraits.'

IV

By this time we had reached the encampment, which was close by a waterfall among ferns and
wild-flowers. Little Jerry Lovell, a child of about four years of age, came running to meet
me with a dead water-wagtail in his hand which he had knocked down.

'Me kill de Romany Chiriklo,' said he, and  then proceeded to tell me very gravely that, having
killed the 'Gypsy magpie,' he was bound to have a great lady for his sweetheart.

'Jerry,' said I bitterly, 'you begin with love and superstition early; you are an incipient
"Aylwinian": take care.'

When I explained to Wilderspin that this was one of the Romany beliefs, he said that he did
not at present see the connection between a dead water-wagtail and a live lady, but that such
a connection might doubtless exist. Panuel Lovell now came forward to greet and welcome Wilderspin.
Sinfi and Cyril had evidently walked at a brisk rate, for already tea was spread out on a cloth.
The fire was blazing beneath a kettle slung from the 'kettle-prop.' The party were waiting
for us. Sinfi, however, never idle, was filling up the time by giving lessons in riding to
Euri and Sylvester Lovell, two dusky urchins in their early teens, while her favourite bantam-cock
Pharaoh, standing on a donkey's back, his wattles gleaming like coral in the sun, was crowing
lustily. Cyril, who lay stretched among the ferns, his chin resting in his hands and a cigarette
in his mouth, was looking on with the deepest interest. As I passed  behind him to introduce
Wilderspin to Videy Lovell (who was making tea), I heard Cyril say, 'Lady Sinfi, you must and
shall teach me how to make an adversary's bed--the only really essential part of a liberal
education.'

'Brother,' said Sinfi, turning to me, 'your thoughts are a-flyin' off agin; keep your spirits
up afore all these.'

The leafy dingle was recalling Graylingham Wilderness and 'Fairy Dell,' where little Winifred
used to play Titania to my childish Oberon, and dance the Gypsy 'shawl-dance' Sinfi's mother
had taught her!

So much was I occupied with these reminiscences that I had not observed that during our absence
our camp had been honoured by visitors. These were Jericho Boswell, christened, I believe,
Jasper, his daughter Rhona, and James Herne, called on account of his accomplishments as a
penman the Scollard. Although Jasper Boswell and Panuel Lovell were rival Griengroes, there
was no jealousy between them--indeed, they were excellent friends.

There were many points of similarity between their characters. Each had risen from comparative
poverty to what might be called wealth, and risen in the same way, that is to say, by straightforward
dealing with the Gorgios, although as regarded Jericho, Rhona was generally credited with having
acted as a great auxiliary in amassing his wealth. All over the country the farmers and horse-dealers
knew that neither Jasper nor Panuel ever bishoped a gry, or indulged in any other horse-dealing
tricks. Their very simplicity of character had done what all the crafty tricks of certain compeers
of theirs had failed to do. They were also very much alike in their good-natured and humorous,
way of taking all the ups and downs of life.

A very different kind of Romany was the Scollard--so different, indeed, that it was hard to
think that he was of the same race: Romany guile incarnate was the Scollard. He suggested even
in his personal appearance the typical Gypsy of the novel and the stage, rather than the true
Gypsy as he lives and moves. The Scollard was well known to be half-crazed with a passion for
Rhona Boswell, who was the fiancée of that cousin of mine, Percy Aylwin, before mentioned.
Percy was considered to be a hopelessly erratic character. Much against the wish of his parents,
he had been brought up as a sailor; but on seeing Rhona Boswell he promptly fell in love with
her, and quitted the sea in order to be near her. And no man who ever heard Rhona's laugh professed
to wonder at Percy's infatuation. As a Griengro her father, Jericho Boswell, who had no son,
was said to have owed his prosperity to Rhona's instinctive knowledge of horseflesh. 

At Tours, even the women wore Guillotines in their ears, and it was not unusual for people to
seal their letters with a similar representation!

We have been once at the theatre since the King's death, and the stanza of the Reveil du Peuple,
[The rousing of the people.] which contains a compliment to the Convention, was hissed pretty
generally, while those expressing an abhorrence of Jacobinism were sung with enthusiasm. But
the sincerity of these musical politics is not always to be relied
on: a popular air is caught and echoed with avidity; and whether the
words be "Peuple Francais, peuple de Freres," ["Brethren."]-- or "Dansons
la Guillotine," the expression with which it is sung is not very
different. I said to him:
'This idea o f my father's which has inspired you, and resulted in such great work, what is
its nature?'

'I am a painter, Mr. Aylwin, and nothing more,' he replied. 'I could only express Philip Aylwin's
ideas by describing my picture and the predella beneath it. Will you permit me to do so?'

'May I ask you,' I said, 'as a favour to do so?'

Immediately his face became very bright, and into his eyes returned the far-off look already
described.

'I will first take the predella, which represents Isis behind the Veil,' said he. 'Imagine
yourself thousands of years away from this time. Imagine yourself thousands of miles away,
among real Egyptians.'

'Real 'Gyptians!' cried Sinfi. 'Who says the Romanies ain't real 'Gyptians? Anybody as says
my daddy ain't a real 'Gyptian duke'll ha' to set to with Sinfi Lovell.'

'Nonsense,' said Cyril, smiling, and playing idly with a coral amulet dangling from Sinfi's
neck; 'he's talking about the ancient Egyptians: Egyptian mummies, you silly Lady Sinfi. You're
not a mummy, are you?'

'Well, no, I ain't a mummy as fur as I knows on,' said Sinfi, only half-appeased; 'but my daddy's
a 'Gyptian duke for all that,--ain't you, dad?'

'So it seems, Sin,' said Panuel, 'but I ommust begin to wish I worn't; it makes you feel so
blazin' shy bein' a duke all of a suddent.'

'Dabla!' said the guest Jericho Boswell. 'What, Pan, has she made a dook on ye?'

The Scollard began to grin.

'Pull that ugly mug o' yourn straight, Jim Herne,' said Sinfi, 'else I'll come and pull it
straight for you.'

Wilderspin took no notice of the interruption, but addressed me as though no one else were
within earshot.

'Imagine yourself standing in an Egyptian city, where innumerable lamps of every hue are shining.
It is one of the great lamp-fêtes of Sais, which all Egypt has come to see. There, in honour
of the feast, sits a tall woman, covered by a veil. But the painting is so wonderful, Mr. Aylwin,
that, though you see a woman's face expressed behind the veil--though you see the warm flesh-tints
and the light of the eyes through the aerial film--you cannot judge of the character of the
face--you cannot see whether it is that of woman in her noblest, or woman in her basest, type.
The eyes sparkle, but you cannot say whether they sparkle with malignity or benevolence--whether
they are fired with what Philip Aylwin calls "the love-light of the seventh heaven," or are
threatening with "the hungry flames of the seventh hell"! There she sits in front of a portico,
while, asleep, with folded wings, is crouched on one side of her the figure of Love, with rosy
feathers, and on the other the figure of Faith, with plumage of a deep azure. Over her head,
on the portico, are written the words:--"I am all that hath been, is, and shall be, and no
mortal hath uncovered my veil." The tinted lights falling on the group are shed, you see, from
the rainbow-coloured lamps of Sais, which are countless. But in spite of all these lamps, Mr.
Aylwin, no mortal can see the face behind that veil. And why? Those who alone could uplift
it, the figures with folded wings--Faith and Love--are fast asleep at the great Queen's feet.
When Faith and Love are sleeping there, what are the many-coloured lamps of science?--of what
use are they to the famished soul of man?'

'A striking idea!' I exclaimed.

'Your father's,' replied Wilderspin, in a tone of such reverence that one might have imagined
my father's spectre stood before him. 'It symbolises that base Darwinian cosmogony which Carlyle
spits at, and the great and good John Ruskin scorns. But this design is only the predella beneath
the picture "Faith and Love." Now look at the picture itself, Mr. Aylwin,' he continued, as
though it were upon an easel before me. 'You are at Sais no longer: you are now, as the architecture
around you shows, in a Greek city by the sea. In the light of innumerable lamps, torches, and
wax tapers, a procession is moving through the streets. You see Isis, as Pelagia, advancing
between two ranks, one of joyous maidens in snow-white garments, adorned with wreaths, and
scattering from their bosoms all kinds of dewy flowers; the other of youths, playing upon pipes
and flutes, mixed with men with shaven shining crowns, playing upon sistra of brass, silver,
and gold. Isis wears a Dorian tunic, fastened on her breast by a tasselled knot,--an azure-coloured
tunic bordered with silver stars,--and an upper garment of the colour of the moon at moonrise.
Her head is crowned with a chaplet of sea-flowers, and round her throat is a necklace of seaweeds,
wet still with sea-water, and shimmering with all the shifting hues of the sea. On either side
of her stand the awakened angels, uplifting from her face a veil whose folds flow soft as water
over her shoulders and over the wings of Faith and Love. A symbol of the true cosmogony which
Philip Aylwin gave to the world!'

'Why, that's esackly like the wreath o' seaweeds as poor Winnie Wynne used to make,' said Rhona
Boswell.

'The photograph of Raxton Fair!' I cried. 'Frank and Winnie, and little Bob Milford, and the
seaweeds!' The terrible past came upon my soul like an avalanche, and I leapt up and walked
frantically towards my own waggon. The picture, which was nothing but an idealisation of the
vignette upon the title-page of my father's book--the vignette taken from the photograph of
Winnie, my brother Frank, and one of my fisher-boy playmates--brought back upon me--all!

Sinfi came to me.

'What is it, brother?' said she.

'Sinfi,' I cried, 'what was that saying of your mother's about fathers and children?'

'My poor mammy's daddy, when she wur a little chavi, beat her so cruel that she was a ailin'
woman all her life, and she used to say, "For good or for ill, you must dig deep to bury your
daddy."'

I went back and resumed my seat by Wilderspin's side, while Sinfi returned to Cyril.

Wilderspin evidently thought that I had been overcome by the marvellous power of his description,
and went on as though there had been no interruption.

'Isis,' said he,' stands before you; Isis, not matronly and stern as the mother of Horus, nor
as the Isis of the licentious orgies; but (as Philip Aylwin says) "Isis, the maiden, gazing
around her, with pure but mystic eyes."'

'And you got from my father's book,--The Veiled Queen, all this'--I was going to add--'jumble
of classic story and mediæval mysticism,'--but I stopped short in time.

'All this and more--a thousand times more than could be rendered by the art of any painter.
For the age that Carlyle spits at and the great and good John Ruskin scorns is gross, Mr. Aylwin;
the age is grovelling and gross. No wonder, then, that Art in our time has nothing but technical
excellence; that it despises conscience, despises aspiration, despises soul, despises even
ideas--that it is worthless, all worthless.'

'Except as practised in a certain temple of art in a certain part of London that shall be nameless,
whence Calliope, Euterpe, and all the rhythmic sisters are banished,' interposed Cyril.

'But how did you attain to this superlative excellence, Mr. Wilderspin?' I asked.

'That would indeed be a long story to tell,' said he. 'Yet Philip Aylwin's son has a right
to know all that I can tell. My dear friend here knows that, though famous now, I climbed the
ladder of Art from the bottom rung; nay, before I could even reach the bottom rung, what a
toilsome journey was mine to get within sight of the ladder at all! The future biographer of
the painter of "Faith and Love" will have to record that he was born in a hovel; that he was
nursed in a smithy; that his cradle was a piece of board suspended from the smithy ceiling
by a chain, which his mother--his widowed mother--kept swinging by an occasional touch in the
intervals of her labours at the forge.'

I did not even smile at this speech, so entirely was the effect of its egotism killed by the
wonderful way of pronouncing the word 'mother.'

'You have heard,' he continued in a voice whose intense earnestness had an irresistible fascination
for the ear, like that of a Hindoo charmer--'you have heard of the mother-bird who feeds her
young from the blood of her own breast; that bird but feebly typifies her whom God, in His
abundant love of me, gave me for a mother. The fact that the girl happened to be practically brainless
and a Luke Gospeler would not have weighed with you a moment.
"" I'm weary of the old cant about Nature, "said Tarrant." You're
a naturalist and a materialist. That ends it. The scar upon my forehead--look!
it is shaped like the red-hot nail that one day leapt upon me from her anvil, as I lay asleep
in my swing above her head. I would not lose it for all the diadems of all the monarchs of
this world. She was much too poor to educate us. When the wolf is at the door, Mr. Aylwin,
and the very flesh and blood of the babes in danger of perishing, what mother can find time
to think of education, to think even of the salvation of the soul,--to think of anything but
food--food? Have you ever wanted food, Mr. Aylwin?' he suddenly said, in a voice so magnetic
from its very earnestness that I seemed for the moment to feel the faintness of hunger.

'No, no,' I said, a tide of grief rushing upon me; 'but there is one who perhaps--there is
one I love more dearly than your mother loved her babes--'

Sinfi rose, and came and placed her hand upon my shoulder and whispered,

'She ain't a-starvin', brother; she never starved on the hills. She's only jest a-beggin' her
bread for a little while, that's all.'

And then, after laying her hand upon my forehead, soft and soothing, she returned to Cyril's side.

'No one who has never wanted food knows what life is,' said Wilderspin, taking but little heed
of even so violent an interruption as this.'No one has been entirely educated, Mr. Aylwin--no
one knows the real primal meaning of that pathetic word Man--no one knows the true meaning
of Man's position here among the other living creatures of this world, if he has never wanted
food. Hunger gives a new seeing to the eyes.'

'That's as true as the blessed stars,' muttered old Mrs. Boswell, Rhona's beloved granny, who
was squatting on a rug next to her son Jericho, with a pipe in her mouth, weaving fancy baskets,
and listening intently. 'The very airth under your feet seems to be a-sinkin' away, and the
sweet sunshine itself seems as if it all belonged to the Gorgios, when you're a-follerin' the
patrin with the emp'y belly.'

'I thank God,' continued Wilderspin, 'that I once wanted food.'

'More nor I do,' muttered old Mrs. Boswell, as she went on weaving; 'no mammy as ever felt
a little chavo [Footnote 1] a-suckin' at her burk [Footnote 2] never thanked God for wantin'
food: it dries the milk, or else it sp'iles it.'

[Footnote 1: Child.]

[Footnote 2:  Bosom.]

'In no way,' said Wilderspin, 'has the spirit-world neglected the education of the apostle
of spiritual beauty. I became a "blower" in the smithy. As a child, from early sunrise till
nearly midnight, I blew the bellows for eighteen pence a week. But long before I could read
or write my mother knew that I was set apart for great things. She knew, from the profiles
I used to trace with the point of a nail on the smithy walls, that, unless the heavy world
pressed too heavily upon me, I should become a great painter. Except anxiety about my mother
and my little brothers and sisters, I, for my part, had no thought besides this of being some
day a painter. Except love for her and for them, I had no other passion. By assiduous attendance
at night-schools I learnt to read and write. This enabled me to take a better berth in Black
Waggon Street, where I earned enough to take lessons in drawing from the reduced widow of a
once prosperous fogger. But ah! so eager was I to learn, that I did not notice how my mother
was fading, wasting, dying slowly. It was not till too late that I learnt the appalling truth,
that while the babes had been nourished, the mother had starved--starved! On a few ounces of
bread a day no woman can work the Oliver and prod the fire. Her last whispers to me were, "I
shall see you, dear, a great painter yet; Jesus will let me look down and watch my boy." Ah,
Sinfi Lovell! that makes you weep. It is long, long since I ceased to weep at that. "Whatsoever
is not of faith is sin."'

Rhona Boswell, down whose face also the tears were streaming, nodded in a patronising way to
Wilderspin, and said, 'Reia, my mammy lives in the clouds, and I'll tell her to show you the
Golden Hand, I will.'

'From the moment when I left my mother in the grave,' said Wilderspin, 'I had but one hope,
that she who was watching my endeavours might not watch in vain. Art became now my religion:
success in it my soul's goal. I went to London; I soon began to develop a great power of design,
in illustrating penny periodicals. For years I worked at this, improving in execution with
every design, but still unable to find an opening for a better class of work. What I yearned
for was the opportunity to exercise the gift of colour. That I did possess this in a rare degree
I knew. At last I got a commission. Oh! the joy of painting that first picture! My progress
was now rapid. But I had few purchasers till Providence sent me a good man and great gentleman,
my dear friend--'

'This is a long-winded speech of yours, mon cher,' yawned Cyril. 'Lady Sinfi is going to strike
up with the Welsh riddle unless you get along faster.'

'Don't stop him,' I heard Sinfi mutter, as she shook Cyril angrily; 'he's mighty fond o' that
mother o' his'n, an', if he's ever sich a horn nataral, I likes him.'

'I never exhibited in the Academy,' continued Wilderspin, without heeding the interruption,
'I never tried to exhibit; but, thanks to the dear friend I have mentioned, I got to know the
Master himself. People came to my poor studio, and my pictures were bought from my easel as
fast as I could paint them. I could please my buyers, I could please my dear friend, I could
please the Master himself; I could please every person in the world but one--myself. For years
I had been struggling with what cripples so many artists--with ignorance--ignorance, Mr. Aylwin,
of the million points of detail which must be understood and mastered before ever the sweetness,
the apparent lawlessness and abandonment of Nature can be expressed by Art. But it was now,
when I had conquered these,--it was now that I was dissatisfied, and no man living was so miserable
as I. I dare say you are an artist yourself, Mr. Aylwin, and will understand me when I say
that artists--figure-painters, I mean,--are divided into two classes--those whose natural impulse
is to paint men, and those who are sent into the world expressly to paint women. My mother's
death taught me that my mission was to paint women, women whom I--being the son of Mary Wilderspin--love
and understand better than other men, because my soul (once folded in her womb) is purer than
other men's souls.'

'Is not modesty a Gorgio virtue, Lady Sinfi?' murmured Cyril.

'Nothin' like a painter for thinkin' strong beer of hisself,' she replied; 'but I likes him--oh,
I likes him.'

'No man whose soul is stained by fleshly desire shall render in art all that there is in a
truly beautiful woman's face,' said Wilderspin. 'I worked hard at imaginative painting; I worked
for years and years, Mr. Aylwin, but with scant success. It shames me to say that I was at
last discouraged. Hut, after a time, I began to feel that the spirit-world was giving me a
strength of vision second only to the Master's own, and a cunning of hand greater than any
vouchsafed to man since the death of Raphael. This was once stigmatised as egotism; but "Faith
and Love," and the predella "Isis behind the Veil," have told another story. I did not despair,
I say; for I knew the cause of my failure. Two sources of inspiration were wanting to me--that
of a superlative subject and that of a superlative model. For the first I am indebted to Philip
Aylwin; for the second I am indebted to--'

'A greater still, Miss Gudgeon, of Primrose Court,' interjected Cyril.

'For the second I'm indebted to my mother. And yet something else was wanting,' continued Wilderspin,
'to enable me for many months to concentrate my life upon one work--the self-sacrificing generosity
of such a friend as I think no man ever had before.

'Wilderspin,' said Cyril, rising, 'the Duke of Little Egypt sleeps, as you see. His Grace of
the Pyramids snores, as you hear. The autobiography of a man of genius is interesting; but
I fear that yours will have to be continued in our next.'

'But Mr. Aylwin wants to hear--'

'He and our other idyllic friends are early to bed and early to rise; they have, in the morning,
trout to catch for breakfast, and we have a good way to walk to-night.'

'That's just like my friend,' said Wilderspin. 'That's my friend all over.'

With this they left us, and we betook ourselves to our usual evening occupations.

Next morning the two painters called upon us. Wilderspin sketched alone, while Sinfi, Rhona,
Cyril, and I went trout-fishing in one of the numerous brooks.

'What do you think of my friend by this time?' said Cyril to me.

'He is my fifth mystic,' I replied; 'I wonder what the sixth will be like. Is he really as
great a painter as he takes himself to he, or does his art begin and end with flowery words?'

'I believe,' said Cyril, pointing across to where Wilderspin sat at work, 'that the strange
creature under that white umbrella is the greatest artistic genius now living. The death of
his mother by starvation has turned his head, poor fellow, but turned it to good purpose: "Faith
and Love" is the greatest modern picture in Europe. To be sure, he has the advantage of painting
from the finest model ever seen, the lovely, if rather stupid, Miss Gudgeon, of Primrose Court,
whom he monopolises.'

Cyril had already, during the morning, told me that my mother, who was much out of health,
was now staying in London, where he had for the first time in his life met her at Lord Sleaford's
house. Notwithstanding their differences of opinion, my mother and he seemed to have formed
a mutual liking. He also told me that my uncle Cecil Aylwin of Alvanley (who in this narrative
must not, of course, be confounded with another important relative, Henry Aylwin, Earl of Aylwin)
having just died and left me the bulk of his property, I had been in much request. I consequently
determined to start for London on the following day, leaving my waggon in charge of Sinfi,
who was to sit to Wilderspin in the open air.

During this conversation Sinfi was absorbed in her fishing, and wandered away up the brook,
and I could see that Cyril's eyes were following her with great admiration.

Turning to me and looking at me, he said, 'Lucky dog!' and then, looking again across at Sinfi,
he said, 'The finest girl in England.'

V

HAROUN-AL-RASCHID THE PAINTER

I

On reaching London and finding that it was necessary I should remain there for some little
time, I wrote to Cyril to say so, sending some messages to Sinfi and her father about my own
living-waggon.

My mother was now staying at my aunt's house, whither I went to call upon her shortly after
my arrival in town.

Our meeting was a constrained and painful one. It was my mother's cruelty to Winifred that
had, in my view, completely ruined two lives. "You needn't be sayin'it over an'over, Mister Jan,"
she answered, her smile changing to a pout.

"But you wouldn't like me any more if I stopped telling you the truth. We have agreed to love
what is true and to worship Mother Nature because she always speaks
the truth."

The girl made no answer, and he went on working for a few moments,
then spoke again.

"I'm selfish, Joan, and think more of my picture than I do of my little model. Put down your arm and
take a good rest. I tried holding my hand over my eyes yesterday to see how long I could do
so without wearying myself. I found that three minutes was quite enough, but I have often kept
you posed for five."

"It hurted my arm'tween the shoulder an'elbow a lil bit at first, but I've grawed used to it now."
"How ever shall I repay you, kind Joan, for all your trouble and
your long walks and pretty stories?"

"I doan't need no pay. If'twas a matter o'payin','twould be a wrong
thing to do, I reckon.

Theer's
auld Bascombe up Paul-- him wi'curls o'long hair an'gawld rings in's ears. Gents pays en to take his
likeness; an'theer's gals make money so, more'n wan; but faither
says'tis a heathenish way of livin'an'not honest.

An'-- an'I'd never let nobody paint me else but you, Mister Jan,'cause
you'm different." "Well, you make me a proud man, Joan. I'm afraid I
must be a poor substitute for Joe."

He noticed she had never mentioned her sweetheart since their early
interviews, and wanted to ascertain of what nature was Joan's affection
for the sailor.

He did not yet dream how faint a thing poor Joe had shrunk to be
in Joan's mind, or how the present episode in her life was dwarfing
and dominating all others, present and past.

Nor did the girl's answer to his remark enlighten him. "In coorse you
an'Joe's differ'nt as can be. You knaws everything seemin'ly an'be a gen'le-man;
Joe's only a seafarin'man, an'' e doan't knaw much'cept what he's
larned from faither.

But Joe used to say a sight more'n what you do, for all that." "I
like to hear you talk, Joan; perhaps Joe liked to hear himself talk.
Most men do.

But, you see, the things you have told me are pleasant to me and
they were not to Joe, because he didn't believe in them.

Don't look at me, Joan; look right away to the edge of the sea." "You'm surprised like as I talks to ye,
Mister Jan. Doan't ladies talk so free as what I do?" "Other women talk, but they are very
seldom in earnest like you are, Joan.

They don't believe half they say, they pretend and make believe;
they've got to do so, poor things, because the world they live in
is all built up on ancient foundations of great festering lies.

The lies are carefully coated over and disinfected as much as possible
and quite hidden out of sight, but everybody knows they are there--
everybody knows the quaking foundations they tread upon.

Civilization
means universal civility, I suppose, Joan; and to be civil to everybody
argues a great power of telling lies.

People call it tact. Increase your doses by a few more
grains and you will lose all command over your nervous system--all presence of mind. Give it
up, give it up and enter Parliament.'

I left Mivart in anger, and took a stroll through the streets, trying to amuse myself by looking
at the shop windows and recalling the few salient incidents that were connected with my brief
experiences as an art student.

Hours passed in this way, until one by one the shops were closed and only the theatres, public
bars, and supper-rooms seemed to be open.

I turned into a restaurant in the Haymarket, for I had taken no dinner. I went upstairs into
a supper-room, and after I had finished my meal, taking a seat near the window, I gazed abstractedly
over the bustling, flashing streets, which to me seemed far more lonely, far more remote, than
the most secluded paths of Snowdon. In a trouble such as mine it is not Man but Nature that
can give companionship.

I  was so absorbed  in my thoughts that I did not observe whether I was or was not now alone
in the room, till the name of Wilderspin fell on my ear and recalled me to myself. I started
and looked round. At a table  near  me sat two men whom I had not noticed before. The face
of the man who sat on the opposite side of the table confronted me.

If I had one tithe of that objective power and that instinct for description which used to
amaze me in Winifred as a child, I could give here a picture of a face which the reader could
never forget.

If it was not beautiful in detail it was illuminated by an expression that gave a unity of
beauty to the whole. And what was the expression? I can only describe it by saying that it
was the expression of genius; and it had that imperious magnetism which I had never before
seen in any face save that of Sinfi Lovell. But striking as was the face of this man, I soon
found that his voice was more striking still. In whatever assembly that voice was heard, its
indescribable resonance would have marked it off from all other voices, and  have made the
ear of the listener eager to catch the sound. This voice, however, was not the one that had
uttered the name of Wilderspin. It was from his companion, who sat opposite to him, with his
great broad back, covered with a smart velvet coat, towards me, that the talk was now coming.
This man was smoking cigarettes in that kind of furious sucking way which is characteristic
of great smokers. Much smoking, however, had not dried up his skin to the consistence of blotting
paper and to the colour of tobacco ash as it does in some cases, but tobacco juice, which seemed
to ooze from his face like perspiration, or rather like oil, had made his complexion of a yellow
green colour, something like a vegetable marrow. Although his face was as hairless as a woman's,
there was not a feature in it that was not masculine. Although his cheek-bones were high and
his jaw was of the mould which we so often associate with the prizefighter, he looked as if
he might somehow be a gentleman. And when I got for a moment a full view of his face as he
turned round, I thought it showed power and intelligence, although his forehead receded a good
deal, a recession which was owing mainly to the bone above the eyes. Power and intelligence
too were seen in every glance of his dark bright eyes. In a few minutes Wilderspin's name was
again uttered by this man, and I found he was telling anecdotes of the eccentric painter--telling
them with great gusto and humour, in a loud voice, quite careless of being overheard by me.
Then followed other anecdotes of other people--artists for the most part--in which the names
of Millais, Ruskin, Watts, Leighton, and others came up in quick succession.

That he was a professional anecdote-monger of extraordinary brilliancy, a raconteur of the
very first order, was evident enough. I found also that as a story-teller he was reckless and
without conscience. He was, I thought, inventing anecdotes to amuse his companion, whose manifest
enjoyment of them rather weakened the impression that his own personality had been making upon me.

After a while the name of Cyril Aylwin came up, and I soon found the man telling a story of
Cyril and a recent escapade of his which I knew must be false. He then went rattling on about
other people, mentioning names which, as I soon gathered, were those of female models known
in the art world. The anecdotes he told of these were mostly to their disadvantage. I was about
to move to another table, in order to get out of earshot of this gossip, when the name 'Lady
Sinfi' fell upon my ears.

And then I heard the other man--the man of the musical voice--talk about Lady Sinfi with the
greatest admiration and regard. He wound up by saying, 'By the bye, where is she now? I should
like to use her in painting my new picture.'

'She's in Wales; so Kiomi told me.'

'Ah yes! I remember she has an extraordinary passion for Snowdon.'

'Her passion is now for something else, though.'

'What's that?'

'A man.'

'I never saw a girl so indifferent to men as Lady Sinfi.'

'She is living at this moment as the mistress of a cousin of Cyril Aylwin.'

My blood boiled with rage. I lost all control of myself. I longed to feel his face against
my knuckles.

'That's not true,' I said in a rather loud voice.

He started up, and turned round, saying in a hectoring voice, 'What was that you said to me?
Will you repeat your words?'

'To repeat one's words,'  I said quietly, 'shows a limited vocabulary, so I will put it thus,--what
you said just now about Sinfi Lovell being the mistress of Cyril Aylwin's cousin is a lie.'

'You dare to give me the lie, sir? And what the devil do you mean by listening to our conversation?'

The threatening look that he managed to put into his face was so entirely histrionic that it
made me laugh outright. This seemed to damp his courage more than if I had sprung up and shown
fight. The man had a somewhat formidable appearance, however, as regards build, which showed
that he possessed more than average strength. It was the manifest genuineness of my laugh that
gave him pause. And when I sat with my elbows on the table and my face between my palms, taking
stock of him quietly, he looked extremely puzzled. The man of the musical voice sat and looked
at me as though under a spell.

'I am a young man from the country,' I said to him. 'To what theatre is your histrionic friend
attached? I should like to see him in a better farce than this.'

'Do you hear that, De Castro?' said the other. 'What is your theatre?'

'If he is really excited,' I said, 'tell him that people at a public supper-room should speak
in a moderate tone or their conversation is likely to be overheard.'

'Do you hear this young man from the country, De Castro?' said he. 'You seem to be the Oraculum
of the hay-fields, sir,' he continued, turning to me with a delightfully humorous expression
on his face. 'Have you any other Delphic utterance?'

'Only this,' I said, 'that people who do not like being given the lie should tell the truth.'

'May I be permitted to guess your Christian name, sir? Is it Martin, perchance?'

'Yes,' I replied, 'and my surname is Tupper.' He then got up and laid his hand on the raconteur's
shoulder, and said, 'Don't be a fool, De Castro. When a man looks at another as the author
of the Proverbial Philosophy is looking at you, he knows that he can use his fists as well
as his pen.'

'He gave me the lie. Didn't you hear?'

'I did, and I thought the gift as entirely gratuitous, mon cher, as giving a scuttleful of
coals to Newcastle.'

The anecdote-monger stood silent, quelled by this man's voice.

Then turning to me, the man of the musical voice said, 'I suppose you know something about
my friend Lady Sinfi?'

'I do,' I said, 'and I am Cyril Aylwin's kinsman, whom you call his cousin, so perhaps, as
every word your friend has said about Sinfi Lovell and me is false, you will allow me to call
him a liar.'

A look of the greatest glee at the discomfiture of his companion overspread his face.

'Certainly,' he said with a loud laugh. 'You may call him that, you may even qualify the noun
you have used with an adjective if the author of the Proverbial Philosophy can think of one
that is properly descriptive and yet not too unparliamentary. So you are Cyril Aylwin's kinsman.
I have heard him,' he said, with a smile that he tried in vain to suppress, 'I have heard Cyril
expatiate on the various branches of the Aylwin family.'

'I belong to the proud Aylwins,' I said.

The twinkle in his eye made me adore him as he said--'The proud Aylwins. A man who, in a world
like this, is proud and knows it, and is proud of confessing his pride, always interests me,
but I will not ask you what makes the proud Aylwins proud, sir.'

'I will tell you what makes me proud,' I said: 'my great-grandmother was a full-blooded Gypsy,
and I am proud of the descent.'

He came forward and held out his hand and said, 'It is long since I met a man who interested
me'--he gave a sigh--'very long; and I hope that you and I may become friends.'

I grasped his hand and shook it warmly.

The anecdote-monger began talking at once about Sinfi, Wilderspin, and Cyril Aylwin, speaking
of them in the most genial and affectionate terms. In a few minutes, without withdrawing a
word he had said about either of them, he had entirely changed the spirit of every word. At
first I tried to resist his sophistry, but it was not to be resisted. I ended by apologising
to him for my stupidity in misunderstanding him.

'My dear fellow,' said he, 'not a word, not a word. I admired the way in which you stood up
for absent friends. Didn't you, D'Arcy?'

At this the other broke out into another mellow laugh. 'I did. How's your kinsman, and how's
Wilderspin?' he said, turning to me. 'Did you leave them well?'

We soon began, all three of us, to talk freely together. Of course I was filled with curiosity
about my new friends, especially about the liar. His extraordinary command of facial expression,
coupled with the fact that he wore no hair on his face, made me at first think he was a great
actor; but being at that time comparatively ignorant of the stage, I did not attempt to guess
what actor it was. After a while his prodigious acuteness struck me more than even his histrionic
powers, and I began to ask myself what Old Bailey barrister it was.

Turning at last to the one called D'Arcy, I said. 'You are an artist; you are a painter?'

'I have been trying for many years to paint,' he said.

'And you?' I said, turning to his companion.

'He is an artist too,' D'Arcy said, 'but his line is not painting--he is an artist in words.'

'A poet?' I said in amazement.

'A romancer, the greatest one of his time unless it be old Dumas.'

'A novelist?'

'Yes, but he does not write his novels, he speaks them.'

De Castro, evidently with a desire to turn the conversation from himself and his profession,
said, pointing to D'Arcy, 'You see before you the famous painter Haroun-al-Raschid, who has
never been known to perambulate the streets of London except by night, and in me you see his
faithful vizier.'

It soon became evident that D'Arcy, for some reason or other, had thoroughly taken to me--more
thoroughly, I thought, than De Castro seemed to like, for whenever D'Arcy seemed to be on the
verge of asking me to call at his studio, De Castro would suddenly lead the conversation off
into another channel by means of some amusing anecdote. However, the painter was not to be
defeated in his intention; indeed I noticed during the conversation that although D'Arcy yielded
to the sophistries of his companion, he did so wilfully. While he forced his mind, as it were,
to accept these sophistries there seemed to be all the while in his consciousness a perception
that sophistries they were. He ended by giving me his address and inviting me to call upon him.

'I am only making a brief stay in London,' he said; 'I am working hard at a picture in the
country, but business just now calls me to London for a short time.'

With this we parted at the door of the restaurant.

II

It was through the merest accident that I saw these two men again.

One evening I had been dining with my mother and aunt. I think I may say that I had now become
entirely reconciled to my mother. I used to call upon her often, and at every call I could
not but observe how dire was the struggle going on within her breast between pride and remorse.
She felt, and rightly felt, that the loss of Winifred among the Welsh hills had been due to
her harshness in sending the stricken girl away from Raxton, to say nothing of her breaking
her word with me after having promised to take my place and watch for the exposure of the cross
by the wash of the tides until the danger was certainly past.

But against my aunt I cherished a stronger resentment every day. She it was, with her inferior
intellect and insect soul, who had in my childhood prejudiced my mother against me and in favour
of Frank, because I showed signs of my descent from Fenella Stanley while Frank did not. She
it was who first planted in my mother's mind the seeds of prejudice against Winnie as being
the daughter of Tom Wynne.

The influence of such a paltry nature upon a woman of my mother's strength and endowments had
always astonished as much as it had irritated me.

I had not learnt then what I fully learnt afterwards, that in this life it is mostly the dull
and stupid people who dominate the clever ones--that it is, in short, the fools who govern
the world.

I should, of course, never have gone to Belgrave Square at all had it not been to see my mother.
Such a commonplace slave of convention was my aunt, that, on the evening I am now mentioning,
she had scarcely spoken to me during dinner, because, having been detained at the solicitor's,
I had found it quite impossible to go to my hotel to dress for her ridiculous seven o'clock dinner.

When I found that my mother had actually taken this inferior woman into her confidence in regard
to my affairs and told her all about Winnie and the cross, my dislike of her became intensified,
and on this evening my mother very much vexed me in the drawing-room by taking the cross from
a cabinet and saying to me,

'What is now to be done with this? All along the coast there are such notions about its value
that to replace it in the tomb would be simple madness.' I made no reply. 'Indeed,' she continued,
looking at the amulet as she might have looked at a cobra uprearing its head to spring at her,
'it must really be priceless. And to think that all this was to be buried in the coffin of--!
It is your charge, however, and not mine.'

'Yes, mother,' I said, 'it is my charge;' and taking up the cross I wrapped it in my handkerchief.

'Take the amulet and guard it well,' she said, as I placed it carefully in the breast pocket
of my coat.

'And remember,' said my aunt, breaking into the conversation, 'that the true curses of the
Aylwins are and always have been superstition and love-madness.'

'I should have added a third curse,--pride, aunt,' I could not help replying.

'Henry,' said she, pursing her thin lips, 'you have the obstinacy and the courage of your race,
that is to say, you have the obstinacy and the courage of ten ordinary men, and yet a man you
are not--a man you will never be, if strength of character, and self-mastery and power to withstand
the inevitable trials of life, go to the making of a man.'

'Pardon me, aunt; but such trials as mine are beyond your comprehension.'

'Are they, boy?' said she. 'This fancy of yours for an insignificant girl--this boyish infatuation
which with any other young man of your rank would have long ago exhausted itself and been forgotten--is
a passion that absorbs your life. And I tremble for you: I tremble for the house you represent.'

But I saw by the expression on my mother's face that my aunt had now gone too far. 'Prue,'
she said, 'your tremblings concerning my son and my family are, I assure you, gratuitous. Such
trembling as the case demands you had better leave to me. My heart tells me I have been very
wrong to that poor child, and I would give much to know that she was found and that she was well.'

I set out to walk to my hotel, wondering how I was to while away the long night until sleep
should come to relieve me. Suddenly I remembered D'Arcy, and my promise to call upon him. I
changed my course, and  hailing a hansom drove to the address he  had given me.

When I reached the door I found, upon looking at my watch, that it was late--so late that I
was dubious whether I should ring the bell. I remembered, however, that he told me how very
late his hours were, and I rang.

On sending in my card I was shown at once into the studio, and after threading my way between
some pieces of massive furniture and pictures upon easels, I found D'Arcy lolling lazily upon
a huge sofa. Seeing that he was not alone, I was about to withdraw, for I was in no mood to
meet strangers. However, he sprang up and introduced me to his guest, whom he called Symonds,
an elegant-looking man in a peculiar kind of evening dress, who, as I afterwards learned, was
one of Mr. D'Arcy's chief buyers. This gentleman bowed stiffly to me.

He did not stay long; indeed, it was evident that the appearance of a stranger somewhat disconcerted
him.

After he was gone D'Arcy said, 'A good fellow! One of my most important buyers. I should like
you to know him, for you and I are going to be friends. I hope.'

He seems very fond of pictures,' I said. A man of great taste, with a real love of art and music.'

In a little while after this gentleman's departure in came De Castro, who had driven up in
a hansom. I certainly saw a flash of anger in his eyes as he recognised me, but it vanished
like lightning, and his manner became cordiality itself. Late as it was (it was nearly twelve),
he pulled out his cigarette case, and evidently intended to begin the evening. As soon as he
was told that Mr. Symonds had been, he began to talk about him in a disparaging manner. Evidently
his metier was, as I had surmised, that of a professional talker. Talk was his stock-in-trade.

The night wore on, and De Castro in the intervals of his talk kept pulling out his watch. It
was evident that he wanted to be going, but was reluctant to leave me there. For my part, I
frequently rose to go, but on getting a sign from D'Arcy that he wished me to stay I sat down
again. At last D'Arcy said,

'You had better go now, De Castro, you have kept that hansom outside for more than an hour
and a half; and besides, if you stay till daylight our friend here will stay longer, for I
want to talk with him alone.'

De Castro got up with a laugh that seemed genuine enough, and left us.

D'Arcy, who was still on the sofa, then lapsed into a silence that became after a while rather
awkward. He lay there, gazing abstractedly at the fireplace.

'Some of my friends call me, as you heard De Castro say the other night, Haroun-al-Raschid,
and I suppose I am like him in some things. I am a bad sleeper, and to be amused by De Castro
when I can't sleep is the chief of blessings. De Castro, however, is not so bad as he seems.
A man may be a scandal-monger without being really malignant. I have known him go out of his
way to do a struggling man a service.'

'You are a bad sleeper?' I said, in a tone that proclaimed at once that I was a bad sleeper also.

'Yes,' said he, 'and so are you, as I noticed the other night. I can always tell. There is
something in the eyes when a man is a bad sleeper that proclaims it to me.'

Then springing up from the divan and laying his hand upon my shoulder, he said, 'And you have
a great trouble at the heart. You have had some great loss the effect of which is sapping the
very fountains of your life. We should be friends. We must be friends. I asked you to call
upon me because we must be friends.'

His voice was so tender that I was almost unmanned.

I will not dwell upon this part of my narrative; I will only say that I told him something
of my story, and he told me his.

I told him that a terrible trouble had unhinged the mind of a young lady whom I deeply loved,
and that she had been lost on the Welsh hills. I felt that it was only right that I should
know more of him before giving him the more intimate details connected with Winnie, myself,
and the secrets of my family. He listened to every word with the deepest attention and sympathy.
After a while he said,

'You must not go to your hotel to-night. A friend of mine who occupies two rooms is not sleeping
here to-night, and I particularly wish for you to take his bed, so that I can see you in the
morning. We shall not breakfast together. My breakfast is a peculiarly irregular meal. But
when you wake ring your bedroom bell and order your own breakfast; afterwards we shall meet
in the studio.'

I did not in the least object to this arrangement, for I found his society a great relief.

Next morning, after I had finished my solitary breakfast, I asked the servant if Mr. D'Arcy
had yet risen. On being told that he had not, I went downstairs into the studio where I had
spent the previous evening. After examining the pictures on the walls and the easels, I walked
to the window and looked out at the garden. It was large, and so neglected and untrimmed as
to be a veritable wilderness. While I was marvelling why it should have been left in this state,
I saw the eyes of some animal staring at me from the distance, and was soon astonished to see
that they belonged to a little Indian bull. My curiosity induced me to go into the garden and
look at the creature. He seemed rather threatening at first, but after a while allowed me to
go up to him and stroke him. Then I left the Indian bull and explored this extraordinary domain.
It was full of unkempt trees, including two fine mulberries, and surrounded by a very high
wall. Soon I came across an object which, at first, seemed a little mass of black and white
oats moving along, but I presently discovered it to be a hedgehog. It was so tame that it did
not curl up as I approached it, but allowed me, though with some show of nervousness, to stroke
its pretty little black snout. As I walked about the garden, I found it was populated with
several kinds of animals such as are never seen except in menageries or in the Zoological Gardens.
Wombats, kangaroos, and the like, formed a kind of happy family.

My love of animals led me to linger in the garden. When I returned to the house I found D'Arcy
in the green dining-room, where we talked, and he read aloud some verses to me. We then went
to the studio. He said,

'No doubt you are surprised at my menagerie. Every man has one side of his character where
the child remains. I have a love of animals which, I suppose, I may call a passion. The kind
of amusement they can afford me is like none other. It is the self-consciousness of men and
women that makes them, in a general way, intensely unamusing. I turn from them to the unconscious
brutes, and often get a world of enjoyment. To watch a kitten or a puppy play, or the funny
antics of a parrot or a cockatoo, or the wise movements of a wombat, will keep me for hours
from being bored.'

'And children,' I said--'do you like children?'

'Yes, so long as they remain like the young animals--until they become self-conscious, I mean,
and that is very soon. Then their charm goes. Has it ever occurred to you how fascinating a
beautiful young girl would be if she were as unconscious as a young animal? What makes you sigh?'

My thoughts had flown to Winifred breakfasting with her 'Prince of the Mist' on Snowdon. And
I said to myself, 'How he would have been fascinated by a sight like that!'

My experience of men at that time was so slight that the opinion I then formed of D'Arcy as
a talker was not of much account. But since then I have seen very much of men, and I find that
I was right in the view I then took of his conversational powers. When his spirits were at
their highest he was without an equal as a wit, without an equal as a humourist. He had more
than even Cyril Aylwin's quickness of repartee, and it was of an incomparably rarer quality.
To define it would be, of course, impossible, but I might perhaps call it poetic fancy suddenly
stimulated at moments by animal spirits into rapid movements--so rapid, indeed, that what in
slower movement would be merely fancy, in him became wit. Beneath the coruscations of this
wit a rare and deep intellect was always perceptible.

His humour was also so fanciful that it seemed poetry at play, but here was the remarkable
thing: although he was not unconscious of his other gifts, he did not seem to be in the least
aware that he was a humourist of the first order; every jeu d'esprit seemed to leap from him
involuntarily, like the spray from a fountain. A dull man like myself must not attempt to reproduce
these qualities here.

While he was talking he kept on painting, and I said to him, 'I can't understand how you can
keep up a conversation while you are at work.'

I took care not to tell him that I was an amateur painter.

'It is only when the work that I am on is in some degree mechanical that I can talk while at
work. These flowers, which were brought to me this morning for my use in painting this picture,
will very soon wither, and I can put them into the picture without being disturbed by talk;
but if I were at work upon this face, if I were putting dramatic expression into these eyes,
I should have to be silent.'

He then went on talking upon art and poetry, letting fall at every moment gems of criticism
that would have made the fortune of a critic.

After a while, however, he threw down the brush and said,

'Sometimes I can paint with another man in the studio; sometimes I can't.'

I rose to go.

'No, no,' he said; 'I don't want you to go, yet I don't like keeping you in this musty studio
on such a morning. Suppose we take a stroll together.'

'But you never walk out in the daytime.'

'Not often; indeed, I may say never, unless it is to go to the Zoo, or to Jamrach's, which
I do about once in three months.'

'Jamrach's!' I said. 'Why, he's the importer of animals, isn't he? Of all places in London
that is the one I should most like to see.' He then took me into a long panelled room with
bay windows looking over the Thames, furnished with remarkable Chinese chairs and tables. And
then we left the house.

In Maud Street a hansom passed us; D'Arcy hailed it.

'We will take this to the Bank,' said he, 'and then walk through the East End to Jamrach's.
Jump in.'

As we drove off, the sun was shining brilliantly, and London seemed very animated--seemed to
be enjoying itself. Until we reached the Bank our drive was through all the most cheerful-looking
and prosperous streets of London. It acted like a tonic on me, and for the first time since
my trouble I felt really exhilarated. As to D'Arcy, after we had left behind us what he called
the 'stucco world' of the West End, his spirits seemed to rise every minute, and by the time
we reached the Strand he was as boisterous as a boy on a holiday.

On reaching the Bank we dismissed the hansom and proceeded to walk to Ratcliffe Highway. Before
reaching it I was appalled at the forbidding aspect of the neighbourhood. It was not merely
that the unsavoury character of the streets offended and disgusted me, but the locality wore
a sinister aspect which acted upon my imagination in the strangest, wildest way. Why was it
that this aspect fairly cowed me, scared me? I felt that I was not frightened on my own account,
and yet when I asked myself why I was frightened I could not find a rational answer.

As I saw the sailors come noisily from their boarding-houses; as I saw the loafers standing
at the street corners, smoking their dirty pipes and gazing at us; as I saw the tawdry girls,
bare-headed or in flaunting hats covered with garish flowers, my thoughts, for no conceivable
reason, ran upon Winnie more persistently than they had run upon her since I had abandoned
all hope of seeing her in Wales.

The thought came to me that, grievous as was her fate and mine, the tragedy of our lives might
have been still worse.

'Suppose,' I said, 'that instead of being lost in the Welsh hills she had been lost here!'
I shuddered at the thought.

Again that picture in the Welsh pool came to me, the picture of Winnie standing at a street
corner, offering matches for sale. D'Arcy then got talking about Sinfi Lovell and her strange
superiority in every respect to the few Gypsy women he had seen.

'She has,' said he, 'mesmeric power; it is only semiconscious, but it is mesmeric. She exercises
it partly through her gaze and partly through her voice.'

He was still talking about Sinfi when a river-boy, who was whistling with extraordinary brilliancy
and gusto, met and passed us. Not a word more of D'Arcy's talk did I hear, for the boy was
whistling the very air to which Winnie used to sing the Snowdon song

        I met in a glade a lone little maid
        At the foot of y Wyddfa the white.

I ran after the boy and asked him what tune he was whistling.

'What tune?' he said, 'blowed if I know.'

'Where did you hear it?' I asked.

'Well, there used to be a gal, a kind of a beggar gal, as lived not far from 'ere for a little
while, but she's gone away now, and she used to sing that tune. I allas remember tunes, but
I never could make out anything of the words.'

D'Arcy laughed at my eccentricity in running after the boy to learn where he had got a tune.
But I did not tell him why.

After we had passed some way down Ratcliffe Highway, D'Arcy said, 'Here we are then,' and pointed
to a shop, or rather two shops, on the opposite side of the street. One window was filled with
caged birds; the other with specimens of beautiful Oriental pottery and grotesque curiosities
in the shape of Chinese and Japanese statues and carvings.

My brain still rang with the air I had heard the river-boy whistling, but I felt that I must
talk about something.

'It is here that you buy your wonderful curiosities and porcelain!' I said.

'Partly; but there is not a curiosity shop in London that I have not ransacked in my time.'

The shop we now entered reminded me of that Raxton Fair which was so much associated with Winnie.
Its chief attraction was the advent of Wombwell's menagerie. From the first moment that the
couriers of that august establishment came to paste their enormous placards on the walls, down
to the sad morning when the caravans left the market-place, Winnie and I and Rhona Boswell
had talked 'Wombwell.' It was not merely that the large pictures of the wild animals in action,
the more than brassy sound of the cracked brass band, delighted our eyes and ears. Our olfactories
also were charmed. The mousy scent of the animals mixed with the scent of sawdust, which to
adults was so objectionable, was characterised by us as delicious. All these Wombwell delights
came back to me as we entered Jamrach's, and for a time the picture of Winifred prevented my
seeing the famous shop. When this passed I saw that the walls of the large room were covered
from top to bottom with cages, some of them full of wonderful or beautiful birds, and others
full of evil-faced, screeching monkeys.

While D'Arcy was amusing himself with a blue-faced rib-nosed baboon, I asked Mr. Jamrach, an
extremely intelligent man, about the singing girl and the Welsh air. But he could tell me nothing,
and evidently thought I had been hoaxed.

In a small case by itself was a beautiful jewelled cross, which attracted D'Arcy's attention
very much.

'This is not much in your line,' he said to Jamrach.'This is European.'

'It came to me from Morocco,' said Jamrach, 'and it was no doubt taken by a Morocco pirate
from some Venetian captive.'

'It is a diamond and ruby cross,' said D'Arcy, 'but mixed with the rubies there are beryls.
I am at this moment describing a beryl in some verses. The setting of the stones is surely
quite peculiar.'

'Yes,' said Jamrach. 'It is the curiosity of the setting more than the value of the gems which
caused it to be sent to me. I have offered it to the London jewellers, but they will only give
me the market-price of the stones and the gold.'

While he was talking I pulled out of my breast pocket the cross, which had remained there since
I received it from my mother the evening before.

'They are very much alike,' said Jamrach; 'but the setting of these stones is more extraordinary
than in mine. And of course they are more than fifty times as valuable.'

D'Arcy turned round to see what we were talking about, when he saw the cross in my hand, and
an expression of something like awe came over his face.

'The Moonlight Cross of the Gnostics!' he exclaimed. 'You carry this about in your breast pocket?
Put it away, put it away! The thing seems to be alive.'

In a second, however, and before I could answer him, the expression passed from his face, and
he took the cross from my hands and examined it.

'This is the most beautiful piece of jewel work I ever saw in my life. I have heard of such
things. The Gnostic art of arranging jewels so that they will catch the moon-rays and answer
them as though the light were that of the sun, is quite lost.'

We then went and examined Jamrach's menagerie. I found that one source of the interest D'Arcy
took in animals was that he was a believer in Baptista Porta's whimsical theory that every
human creature resembles one of the lower animals, and he found a perennial amusement in seeing
in the faces of animals caricatures of his friends.

With a fund of humour that was exhaustless, he went from cage to cage, giving to each animal
the name of some member of the Royal Academy, or of one of his own intimate friends.

On leaving Jamrach's he said to me, 'Suppose we make a day of it and go to the Zoo?'

I agreed, and we took a hansom as soon as we could get one and drove across London towards
Regent's Park.

Here the pleasure that he took in watching the movements of the animals was so great that it
seemed impossible but that he was visiting the Zoo for the first time. I remembered, however,
that he had told me in the morning how frequently he went to these gardens.

But his interest in the animals was unlike my own, and I should suppose unlike the interest
of any other man. He had no knowledge whatever of zoology, and appeared to wish for none. His
pleasure consisted in watching the curious expressions and movements of the animals and in
dramatising them.

On leaving the Zoo, I said, 'The cross you were just now looking at is as remarkable for its
history as for its beauty. It was stolen from the tomb of a near relative of mine. I was under
a solemn promise to the person upon whose breast it lay to see that it should never be disturbed.
But, now that it has been disturbed, to replace it in the tomb would, I fear, be to insure
another sacrilege. I wonder what you would do in such a case?'

He looked at me and said, 'As it is evident that we are going to be intimate friends, I may
as well confess to you at once that I am a mystic.'

'When did you become so?'

'When? Ask any man who has passionately loved a woman and lost her; ask him at what moment
mysticism was forced upon him--at what moment he felt that he must either accept a spiritualistic
theory of the universe or go mad; ask him this, and he will tell you that it was at that moment
when he first looked upon her as she lay dead, with Corruption's foul fingers waiting to soil
and stain. What are you going to do with the cross?'

'Lock it up as safely as I can,' I said; 'what else is there to do with it?'

He looked into my face and said, 'You are a rationalist.'

'I am.'

'You do not believe in a supernatural world?'

'My disbelief of it,' I said, 'is something more than an exercise of the reason. It is a passion,
an angry passion. But what should you do with the cross if you were in my place?'

'Put it back in the tomb.'

I had great difficulty in suppressing my ridicule, but I merely said, 'That would be, as I
have told you, to insure its being stolen again.'

'There is the promise to the dead man or woman on whose breast it lay.'

'This I intend to keep in the spirit like a reasonable man--not in the letter like--'

'Promises to the dead must be kept to the letter, or no peace can come to the bereaved heart.
You are talking to a man who knows!'

'I will commit no such outrage upon reason as to place a priceless jewel in a place where I
know it will be stolen.'

'You will replace the cross in that tomb.'

As he spoke he shook my hands warmly, and said, 'Au revoir. Remember, I shall always be delighted
to see you.'

It was not till I saw him disappear amongst the crowd that I could give way to the laughter
which I had so much difficulty in suppressing. What a relief it was to be able to do this!

VI

THE SONG OF Y WYDDFA

I

After this I had one or two interviews with our solicitor in Lincoln's Inn Fields, upon important
family matters connected with my late uncle's property.

I had been one night to the theatre with my mother and my aunt. The house had been unusually
crowded. When the performance was over, we found that the streets were deluged with rain. Our
carriage had been called some time before it drew up, and we were standing under the portico
amid a crowd of impatient ladies when a sound fell or seemed to fall on my ears which stopped
for the moment the very movements of life.

I heard my aunt say,

'Do look at that poor girl singing and holding out her little baskets! She must be crazed to
be offering baskets for sale in this rain and at this time of night.'

I turned my eyes in the direction in which my aunt was looking, but the crowd before me prevented
my seeing the singer.

'She is gone, vanished,' said my aunt sharply, for my eagerness to see made me rude.

'What was she like?' I asked.

'She was a young slender girl, holding out a bunch of small fancy baskets of woven colours,
through which the rain was dripping. She was dressed in rags, and through the rags shone, here
and there, patches of her shoulders; and she wore a dingy red handkerchief round her head.
She stood in the wet and mud, beneath the lamp, quite unconscious apparently of the bustle
and confusion around her.'

Almost at the same moment our carriage drew up. I lingered on the step as long as possible.
My mother made a sign of impatience at the delay, and I got into the carriage. Spite of the
rain, I put down the window and leaned out. I forgot the presence of my mother and aunt. I
forgot everything. The carriage moved on.

'Winifred!' I gasped, as the certainty that the voice was hers came upon me.

And the dingy London night became illuminated with scrolls of fire, whose blinding, blasting
scripture seared my eyes till I was fain to close them: 'Let his children be vagabonds, and
beg their bread: let them seek it also out of desolate places.'

So rapidly had the carriage rolled through the rain, and so entirely had my long pain robbed
me of all presence of mind, that, by the time I had recovered from the paralysing shock, we
had reached Piccadilly Circus. I pulled the check-string.

'Why, Henry!' said my mother, who had raised the window, 'what are you doing? And what has
made you turn so pale?'

My aunt sat in indignant silence. 'Ten thousand pardons,' I said, as I stepped out of the carriage,
and shook hands with them. 'A sudden recollection--important papers unsecured at my hotel--business
in--in Lincoln's Inn Fields. I will call on you in the morning.'

And I reeled down the pavement towards the Haymarket. When I was some little distance from
the carriage, I took to my heels and hurried as fast as possible towards the theatre, utterly
regardless of the people. I reached the spot breathless. I stood for a moment staring wildly
to right and left of me. Not a trace of her was to be seen. I heard a thin voice from my lips,
that did not seem my own, ask a policeman, who was now patrolling the neighbourhood, if he
had seen a basket-girl singing.

'No,' said the man, 'but I fancy you mean the Essex Street Beauty, don't you? I haven't seen
her for a long while now, but her dodge used to be to come here on rainy nights, and stand
bare-headed and sing and sell just when the theatres was a-bustin'. She gets a good lot, I
fancy, by that dodge.'

'The Essex Street Beauty?'

'Oh, I thought you know'd p'raps. She's a strornary pretty beggar-wench, with blue eyes and
black hair, as used to stand at the corner of Essex Street, Strand, and the money as that gal
got a-holdin' out her matches and a-sayin' texes out of the Bible must ha' been strornary.
So the Essex Street Beauty's bin about here agin on the rainy-night dodge, 'es she? Well, it
must have been the fust time for many a long day, for I've never seen her now for a long time.
She couldn't ha' stood about here for many minutes; if she had I must ha' seen her.'

I staggered away from him, and passed and repassed the spot many times. Then I extended my
beat about the neighbouring streets, loitering at every corner where a basket-girl or a flower-girl
might be likely to stand. But no trace of her was to be seen. Meantime the rain had ceased.

All the frightful stories that I had heard or read of the kidnapping of girls came pouring
into my mind, till my blood boiled and my knees trembled. Imagination was stinging me to life's
very core. Every few minutes I would pass the theatre, and look towards the portico.

The night wore on, and I was unconscious how the time passed. It was not till daybreak that
I returned to my hotel, pale, weary, bent.

I threw myself upon my bed: it scorched me.

I could not think. At present I could only see--see what? At one moment a squalid attic, the
starlight shining through patched window-panes upon a lonely mattress, on which a starving
girl was lying; at another moment a cellar damp and dark, in one corner of which a youthful
figure was crouching; and then (most intolerable of all!) a flaring gin-palace, where, among
a noisy crowd, a face was looking wistfully on, while coarse and vulgar men were clustering
with cruel, wolfish eyes around a beggar-girl. This I saw and more--a thousand things more.

It was insupportable. I rose and again paced the street.

When I called upon my mother she asked me anxious questions as to what had ailed me the previous
night. Seeing, however, that I avoided replying to them, she left me after a while in peace.

'Fancy,' said my aunt, who was writing a letter at a little desk between two windows,--'fancy
an Aylwin pulling the check-string, and then, with ladies in the carriage and the rain pouring--'

During that day how many times I passed in front of the theatre I cannot say; but at last I
thought the very men in the shops must be observing me. Again, though I half poisoned myself
with my drug, I passed a sleepless night. The next night was passed in almost the same manner
as the previous one.

II

From this time I felt working within me a great change. A horrible new thought got entire possession
of me. Wherever I went I could think of nothing but--the curse. I scorned the monstrous idea
of a curse, and yet I was always thinking about it. I was always seeking Winifred--always speculating
on her possible fate. I saw no one in society.

My time was now largely occupied with wandering about the streets of London. I began by exploring
the vicinity of the theatre, and day after day used to thread the alleys and courts in that
neighbourhood. Then I took the eastern direction, and soon became familiar with the most squalid
haunts.

My method was to wander from street to street, looking at every poorly-dressed girl I met.
Often I was greeted with an impudent laugh, that brought back the sickening mental pictures
I have mentioned; and often I was greeted with an angry toss of the head and such an exclamation
as, 'What d'ye take me for, staring like that?'

These peregrinations I used to carry far into the night, and thus, as I perceived, got the
character at my hotel of a wild young man. The family solicitor wrote to me again and again
for appointments which I could not give him.

It had often occurred to me that in a case of this kind the police ought to be of some assistance.
One day I called at Scotland Yard, saw an official, and asked his aid. He listened to my story
attentively, then said: 'Do you come from the missing party's friends, sir?'

'I am her friend,' I answered--'her only friend.'

'I mean, of course, do you represent her father or mother, or any near relative?'

'She is an orphan; she has no relatives,' I said.

He looked at me steadily and said: 'I am sorry, sir, that neither I nor a magistrate could
do anything to aid you.'

'You can do nothing to aid me?' I asked angrily.

'I can do nothing to aid you, sir, in identifying a young woman you once heard sing in the
streets of London, with a lady you saw once on the top of Snowdon.'

As I was leaving the office, he said: 'One moment, sir. I don't see how I can take up this
case for you, but I may make a suggestion. I have an idea that you would do well to pursue
inquiries among the Gypsies.'

'Gypsies!' I said with great heat, as I left the office. 'If you knew how I had already "pursued
inquiries" among the Gypsies, you would understand how barren is your suggestion.'

Weeks passed in this way. My aunt's ill-health became rather serious: my mother too was still
very unwell. I afterwards learnt that her illness was really the result of the dire conflict
in her breast between the old passion of pride and the new invader remorse. There were, no
doubt, many discussions between them concerning me. I could see plainly enough they both thought
my mind was becoming unhinged.

One night, as I lay thinking over the insoluble mystery of Winifred's disappearance, I was
struck by a sudden thought that caused me to leap from my bed. What could have led the official
in Scotland Yard to connect Winifred with Gypsies? I had simply told him of her disappearance
on Snowdon, and her reappearance afterwards near the theatre. Not one word had I said to him
about her early relations with Gypsies. I was impatient for the daylight, in order that I might
go to Scotland Yard again. When I did so and saw the official, I asked him without preamble
what had caused him to connect the missing girl I was seeking with the Gypsies.

'The little fancy baskets she was selling,' said he. 'They are often made by Gypsies.'

'Of course they are,' I said, hurrying away. 'Why did I not think of this?'

In fact I had, during our wanderings over England and Wales, often seen Sinfi's sister Videy
and Rhona Boswell weaving such baskets. Winifred, after all, might be among the Gypsies, and
the crafty Videy Lovell might have some mysterious connection with her; for she detested me
as much as she loved the gold 'balansers' she could wheedle out of me. Moreover, there were
in England the Hungarian Gypsies, with their notions about demented girls, and the Lovells,
owing to Sinfi's musical proclivities, were just now much connected with a Hungarian troupe.

VII

SINFI'S  DUKKERIPEN

I

The Gypsies I had never seen since leaving them in Wales, and I knew that by this time they
were either making their circuit of the English fairs or located in a certain romantic spot
called Gypsy Dell, near Rington Manor, the property of my kinsman Percy Aylwin, whither they
often went after the earlier fairs were over.

The next evening I went to the Great Eastern Railway station, and taking the train to Rington
I walked to Gypsy Dell, where I found the Lovells and Boswells.

Familiar as I was with, the better class of Welsh Gypsies, the camp here was the best display
of Romany well-being I had ever seen. It would, indeed, have surprised those who associate
all Gypsy life with the squalor which in England, and especially near London, marks the life
of the mongrel wanderers who are so often called Gypsies. In a lovely dingle, skirted by a
winding, willow-bordered river, and dotted here and there with clumps of hawthorn, were ranged
the 'living-waggons' of those trading Romanies who had accompanied the 'Griengroes' to the
East Anglian and Midland fairs.

Alongside the waggons was a single large brown tent that for luxuriousness might have been
the envy of all Gypsydom. On the hawthorn bushes and the grass was spread, instead of the poor
rags that one often sees around a so-called Gypsy encampment, snowy linen, newly washed. The
ponies and horses were scattered about the Dell feeding.

I soon distinguished Sinfi's commanding figure near that gorgeous living-waggon of 'orange-yellow
colour with red window-blinds' in which she had persuaded me to invest my money at Chester.
On the foot-board sat two urchins of the Lovell family, 'making believe' to drive imaginary
horses, and yelling with all their might to Rhona Boswell, whose laugh, musical as ever, showed
that she enjoyed the game as much as the children did. Sinfi was standing on a patch of that
peculiar kind of black ash which burnt grass makes, busy with a fire, over which a tea-kettle
was hanging from the usual iron kettle-prop. Among the ashes left by a previous fire her bantam-cock
Pharaoh was busy pecking, scratching, and calling up imaginary hens to feast upon his imaginary
'finds.' I entered the Dell, and before Sinfi saw me I was close to her.

She was muttering to the refractory fire as though it were a live thing, and asking it why
it refused to burn beneath the kettle. A startled look, partly of pleasure and partly of something
like alarm, came over her face as she perceived me. I drew her aside and told her all that
had happened in regard to Winifred's appearance as a beggar in London. A strange expression
that was new to me overspread her features, and I thought I heard her whisper to herself, 'I
will, I will.'

'I knowed the cuss 'ud ha' to ha' its way in the blood, like the bite of a sap' [snake], she
murmured to herself. 'And yit the dukkeripen on Snowdon said, clear and plain enough, as they'd
surely marry at last. What's become o' the stolen trúshul, brother--the cross?' she inquired
aloud. 'That trúshul will ha' to be given to the dead man agin, an' it'll ha' to be given back
by his chavo [child] as swore to keep watch over it. But what's it all to me?' she said in
a tone of suppressed anger that startled me. 'I ain't a Gorgie,'

'But, Sinfi, the cross cannot be buried again. The reason I have not replaced it in the tomb,--the
reason I never will replace it there,--is that the people along the coast know now of the existence
of the jewel, and know also of my father's wishes. If it was unsafe in the tomb when only Winnie's
father knew of it, it would be a thousandfold more unsafe now.'

'P'raps that's all the better for her an' you: the new thief takes the cuss.'

'This is all folly,' I replied, with the anger of one struggling against an unwelcome half-belief
that refuses to be dismissed. 'It is all moonshine-madness. I'll never do it,--not at least
while I retain my reason. It was no doubt partly for safety as well as for the other reason
that my father wished the cross to be placed in the tomb. It will be far safer now in a cabinet
than anywhere else.'

'Reia,' said Sinfi, 'you told me wonst as your great-grandmother was a Romany named Fenella
Stanley. I have axed the Scollard about her, and what do you think he says? He says that she
wur my great-grandmother too, for she married a Lovell as died.'

'Good heavens, Sinfi! Well, I'm proud of my kinswoman.'

'And he says that Fenella Stanley know'd more about the true dukkerin, the dukkerin of the
Romanies, than anybody as were ever heerd on.'

'She seems to have been pretty superstitious,' I said, 'by all accounts. But what has that
to do with the cross?'

'You'll put it in the tomb again.'

'Never!'

'Fenella Stanley will see arter that.'

'Fenella Stanley! Why, she's dead and dust.'

'That's what I mean; that's why she can make you do it, and will.'

'Well, well! I did not come to talk about the cross; I want to have a quiet word with you about
another matter.'

She sprang away as if in terror or else in anger. Then recovering herself she took the kettle
from the prop. I followed her to the tent, which, save that it was made of brown blanket, looked
more like a tent on a lawn than a Gypsy-tent. All its comfort seemed, however, to give no great
delight to Videy, the cashier and female financier-general of the Lovell family, who, in a
state of absorbed untidiness, sitting at the end of the tent upon a palliasse covered with
a counterpane of quilted cloth of every hue, was evidently occupied in calculating her father's
profits and losses at the recent horse-fair. The moment Videy saw us she hurriedly threw the
coin into the silver tea-pot by her side, and put it beneath the counterpane, with that instinctive
and unnecessary secrecy which characterised her, and made her such an amazing contrast both
to her sister Sinfi and to Rhona Boswell.

After Panuel had received me in his usual friendly manner, we all sat down, partly inside the
tent and partly outside, around the white table-cloth that had been spread upon the grass.
The Scollard took no note of me; he had no eyes for any one but Rhona Boswell.

When tea was over Sinfi left the camp, and strode across the Dell towards the river. I followed
her.

II

It was not till we reached a turn in the river that is more secluded than any other--a spot
called 'Gypsy Ring,' a lovely little spot within the hollow of birch trees and gorse--that
she spoke a few words to me, in a constrained tone. Then I said, as we sat down upon a green
hillock within the Ring: 'Sinfi, the baskets my aunt saw in Winnie's hand when she was standing
in the rain were of the very kind that Videy makes.'

'Oh, that's what you wanted to say!' said she; 'you think Videy knows something about Winnie.
But that's all a fancy o' yourn, and it's of no use looking for Winnie any more among the Romanies.
Even supposin' you did hear the Welsh gillie--and I think it was all a fancy--you can't make
nothin' out o' them baskets as your aunt seed. Us Romanies don't make one in a hundud of the
fancy baskets as is sold for Gypsy baskets in the streets, and besides, the hawkers and costers
what buys 'em of us sells 'em agin to other hawkers and costers, and there ain't no tracin'
on 'em.'

I argued the point with her. At last I felt convinced that I was again on the wrong track.
By this time the sun had set, and the stars were out. I had noticed that during our talk Sinfi's
attention would sometimes seem to be distracted from the matter in hand, and I had observed
her give a little start now and then, as though listening to something in the distance.

'What are you listening to?' I inquired at last. 'Reia,' said Sinfi, 'I've been a-listenin'
to a v'ice as nobody can't hear on'y me, an' I've bin a-seein' a face peepin' atween the leaves
o' the trees as nobody can't see on'y me; my mammy's been to me. I thought she would come here.
They say my mammy's mammy wur buried here, an' she wur the child of Fenella, an' that's why
it's called Gypsy Ring. The moment I sat down in this Ring a mullo [spirit] come and whispered
in my ear, but I can't make out whether it's my mammy or Fenella Stanley, and I can't make
out what she said. It's hard sometimes for them as has to gnaw their way out o' the groun'
to get their words out clear. [Footnote] Howsomever, this I do know, reia, you an' me must
part. I felt as we must part when we was in Wales togither last time, and now I knows it.'

[Footnote: Some Romanies think that spirits rise from the ground.]

'Part, Sinfi! Not if I can prevent it.'

'Reia,' replied Sinfi emphatically, 'when I've wonst made up my mind, you know it's made up
for good an' all. When us two leaves this 'ere Ring to-night, you'll turn your ways and I shall
turn mine.'

I thought it best to let the subject drop. Perhaps by the time we had left the Ring this mood
would have passed. After a minute or so she said,

'You needn't see no fear about not marryin' Winifred Wynne. You must marry her; your dukkeripen
on Snowdon didn't show itself there for nothink. When you two was a-settin' by the pool, a-eatin'
the breakfiss, I was a-lookin' at you round the corner of the rock. I seed a little kindlin'
cloud break away and go floatin' over your heads, and then it shaped itself into what us Romanies
calls the Golden Hand. You know what the Golden Hand means when it comes over two sweethearts?
You don't believe it? Ask Rhona Boswell! Here she comes a-singin' to herself. She's trying
to get away from that devil of a Scollard as says she's bound to marry him. I've a good mind
to go and give him a left-hand body-blow in the ribs and settle him for good and all. He means
mischief to the Tarno Rye, and Rhona too. Brother, I've noticed for a long while that the Romany
blood is a good deal stronger in you than the Gorgio blood. And now mark my words, that cuss
o' your feyther's'll work itself out. You'll go to his grave and you'll jist put that trúshul
back in that tomb, and arter that, and not afore, you'll marry Winnie Wynne.'

Sinfi's creed did not surprise me: the mixture of guile and simplicity in the Romany race is
only understood by the few who know it thoroughly: the race whose profession it is to cheat
by fortune-telling, to read the false 'dukkeripen' as being 'good enough for the Gorgios,'
believe profoundly in nature's symbols; but her bearing did surprise me.

'Your dukkeripen will come true,' said she; 'but mine won't, for I won't let it.'

'And what is yours?' I asked.

'That's nuther here nor there.'

Then she stood again as though listening to something, and again I thought, as her lips moved,
that I heard her whisper, 'I will, I will.'

III

I had intended to go to London at once after leaving Gypsy Dell, but something that Sinfi told
me during our interview impelled me to go on to Raxton Hall, which was so near. The fact that
Sinfi was my kinswoman opened up new and exciting vistas of thought.

I understood now what was that haunting sense of recognition which came upon me when I first
saw Sinfi at the wayside inn in Wales. Day by day had proofs been pouring in upon me that the
strain of Romany blood in my veins was asserting itself with more and more force. Day by day
I had come to realise how closely, though the main current of my blood was English, I was affined
to the strange and mysterious people among whom I was now thrown--the only people in these
islands, as it seemed to me, who would be able to understand a love-passion like mine. And
there were many things in the great race of my forefathers which I had found not only unsympathetic
to me, but deeply repugnant. In Great Britain it is the Gypsies alone who understand nature's
supreme charm, and enjoy her largesse as it used to be enjoyed in those remote times described
in Percy Aylwin's poems before the Children of the Roof invaded the Children of the Open Air,
before the earth was parcelled out into domains and ownerships as it now is parcelled out.
In the mind of the Gorgio, the most beautiful landscape or the most breezy heath or the loveliest
meadow-land is cut up into allotments, whether of fifty thousand acres or of two roods, and
owned by people. Of ownership of land the Romany is entirely unconscious. The landscape around
him is part of Nature herself, and the Romany on his part acknowledges no owner. No doubt he
yields to force majeure in the shape of gamekeeper or constable, but that is because he has
no power to resist it. Nature to him is as free and unowned by man as it was to the North American
Indian in his wigwam before the invasion of the Children of the Roof.

During the time that I was staying in Flintshire and near Capel Curig, rambling through the
dells or fishing in the brooks, it was surprising how soon the companionship of a Gorgio would
begin to pall upon me. And here the Cymric race is just as bad as the Saxon. The same detestable
habit of looking upon nature as a paying market-garden, the same detestable inquiry as to who
was the owner of this or that glen or waterfall, was sure at last to make me sever from him.
But as to Sinfi, her attitude towards nature, though it was only one of the charms that endeared
her to me, was not the least of them. There was scarcely a point upon which she and I did not
touch.

And what about her lack of education? Was that a drawback? Not in the least. The fact that
she knew nothing of that traditional ignorance which for ages has taken the name of knowledge--that
record of the foolish cosmogonies upon which have been built the philosophies and the social
systems of the blundering creature Man--the fact that she knew nothing of these gave an especial
piquancy to everything she said. I had been trying to educate myself in the new and wonderful
cosmogony of growth which was first enunciated in the sixties, and was going to be, as I firmly
believed, the basis of a new philosophy, a new system of ethics, a new poetry, a new everything.
But in knowledge of nature as a sublime consciousness, in knowledge of the human heart, Sinfi
was far more learned than I. And believing as I did that education will in the twentieth century
consist of unlearning, of unlading the mind of the trash previously called knowledge, I could
not help feeling that Sinfi was far more advanced, far more in harmony than I could hope to
be With the new morning of Life of which we are just beginning to see the streaks of dawn.

'I must go and see Fenella's portrait,' I said, as I Walked briskly towards Raxton.

When I reached Raxton Hall I seemed to startle the butler and the servants, as though I had
come from the other world.

I told the butler that I should sleep there that night, and then went at once to the picture
gallery and stood before Reynolds' famous picture of Fenella Stanley as the Sibyl. The likeness
to Sinfi was striking. How was it that it had not previously struck me more forcibly? The painter
had evidently seized the moment when Fenella's eyes expressed that look of the seeress which
Sinfi's eyes, on occasion, so powerfully expressed. I stood motionless before it while the
rich, warm light of evening bathed it in a rosy radiance. And when the twilight shadows fell
upon it, and when the moon again lit it up, I stood there still. The face seemed to pass into
my very being, and Sinfi's voice kept singing in my ears, 'Fenella Stanley's dead and dust,
and that's why she can make you put that cross in your feyther's tomb, and she will, she will.'

I left the picture and went into the library: for I bethought me of that sheaf of Fenella's
letters to my great-grandfather which he had kept so sacredly, and which had come to me as
representative of the family. My previous slight inspection of them had shown me what a wonderful
woman she was, how full of ideas the most original and the most wild. The moment a Gypsy-woman
has been taught to write there comes upon her a passion for letter-writing.

Nothing could be more striking than the contrast between the illiterate locutions and the eccentric
orthography of Fenella's letters and the subtle remarks and speculations upon the symbols of
nature.--the dukkeripen of the woods, the streams, the stars, and the winds. But when I came
to analyse the theories of man's place in nature expressed in the ignorant language of this
Romany heathen, they seemed to me only another mode of expressing the mysticism of the religious
enthusiast Wilderspin, the more learned and philosophic mysticism of my father, and the views
of D'Arcy, the dreamy painter.

As I rode back to London, I said to myself, 'What change has come over me? What power has been
gradually sapping my manhood? Why do I, who was so self-reliant, long now so passionately for
a friend to whom to unburthen my soul--one who could give me a sympathy as deep and true as
that I got from Sinfi Lovell, and yet the sympathy of a mind unclouded by ignorant superstitions?'

With the exception of D'Arcy, whose advice as to the disposal of the cross had proclaimed him
to be as superstitious as Sinfi herself, not a single friend had I in all London. Indeed, besides
Lord Sleaford (a tall, burly man with the springy movement of a prize-tighter, with blue-grey
eyes, thick, close-cropped hair, and a flaxen moustache, who had lately struck up a friendship
with my mother) I had not even an acquaintance. Cyril Aylwin, whom I had not seen since we
parted in Wales, was now on the Continent with Wilderspin. Strange as it may seem, I looked
forward with eagerness to the return of this light-hearted jester. Cyril's sagacity and knowledge
of the world had impressed me in Wales; but his cynical attitude, whether genuine or assumed,
towards subjects connected with deep passion, had prevented my confiding in him. He must, I
knew, have gathered from Sinfi, and from other sources, that I was mourning the loss of a Welsh
girl in humble life; but during our very brief intercourse in Wales neither of us had mentioned
the matter to the other. Now, however, in my present dire strait I longed to call in the aid
of his penetrative mind.

VIII

ISIS AS HUMOURIST

I

On reaching London I resumed my wanderings through the London streets. Bitter as these wanderings
were, my real misery now did not begin until I got to bed. Then began the terrible struggle
of the soul that wrestles with its ancestral fleshly prison--that prison whose warders are
the superstitions of bygone ages. 'Have you not seen the curse literally fulfilled?' ancestral
voices of the blood--voices Romany and Gorgio--seemed whispering in my ears. 'Have you not
heard the voice of his daughter upon whose head the curse of your dead father has fallen a
beggar in the street, while not all your love can succour her or reach her?'

And then my soul would cry out in its agony, 'Most true, Fenella Stanley--most true, Philip
Aylwin; but before I will succumb to such a theory of the universe as yours, a theory which
reason laughs at and which laughs at reason, I will die--die by this hand of mine: this flesh
that imprisons me in a world of mocking delusion shall be destroyed, but first the symbol itself
of your wicked, cruel old folly shall go.'

I would then leap from my bed, light a candle, unlock my cabinet, take out the cross, and holding
it aloft prepare to dash it against the wall, when my hand would be arrested by the same ancestral
voices, Romany and Gorgio, whispering in my ears and at my heart,

'If you break that amulet, how shall you ever be able to see what would be the effect upon
Winnie's fate of its restoration to your father's tomb?'

And then I would laugh aloud and mock the voices of Fenella Stanley and Philip Aylwin and millions
of other voices that echoed or murmured or bellowed through half a million years, echoed or
murmured or bellowed from European halls and castles, from Gypsy tents, from caves of palæolithic
man.

'How shall you stay the curse from working in the blood of the accursed one?' the voices would
say. And then I would laugh again till I feared the people in the hotel would hear me and take
me for a maniac.

But then my aunt's picture of a beggar-girl standing in the rain would fill my eyes and the
whispers would grow louder than the voice of the North Sea in the March wind: 'Look at that.
How dare you leave undone anything, howsoever wild, which might seem to any one--even to an
illiterate Gypsy, even to a crazy mystic--a means of finding Winifred? What is the meaning
of the great instinct which has always conquered the soul in its direst need--which has always
driven man when in the grip of unbearable calamity to believe in powers that are unseen? What
though that scientific reason of yours tells you that Winifred's misfortunes have nothing to
do with any curse? what though your reason tells you that all these calamities may be read
as being the perfectly natural results of perfectly natural causes? Is the voice of man's puny
reason clothed with such authority that it dares to answer his heart, which knows nothing but
that it bleeds? The terrible facts of the case may be read in two ways. With an inscrutable
symmetry these facts may and do fit in with the universal theory of the power of the spirit-world
to execute a curse from the grave. Look at that beggar in the street! How dare you ignore the
theory of the sorrowing soul, the logic of the lacerated heart, even though your reason laughs
it to scorn?'

And then at last my laughter would turn to moans, and, replacing the cross in the cabinet,
I would creep hack to my bed ashamed, like a guilty thing--ashamed before myself.

But the more I felt at my throat the claws of the ancestral ogre Superstition, the more enraged
I became with myself for feeling them there. And the auger against my ancestors' mysticism
grew with the growing consciousness that I was rapidly yielding to the very same mysticism
myself. And then I would get up again and take from my escritoire the sheaf of Fenella Stanley's
letters which I had brought from Raxton, and read again those stories about curses, such as
that about the withering of a Romany family under a dead man's curse which Winnie had described
to me that night on the sands.

II

I was delighted to be told by Sleaford, whom I met one afternoon in Piccadilly, that Cyril
had returned to London within the last few days. 'He is appointed artist-in-chief of the new
comic paper, The Caricaturist, said Sleaford, 'and is in great feather. I have just been calling
upon him.'

'The very man I want to see,' I replied. Sleaford thereupon directed me to Cyril's studio 'You'll
find him at work,' said he, 'doin' a caricature of Wilderspin's great picture, "Faith and Love."
Mother Gudgeon is sittin' as his model. He does everything from models, you know.'

'Mother Gudgeon?'

'A female costermonger that he picked up some where in the slums, the funniest woman in London:
haw! haw! I promise you she'll make you laugh when Cyril draws her out.'

He then began to talk upon the subject which interested him above all others, the smartness
and swiftness of his yacht. 'I am trying to persuade your mother and aunt to go for a cruise
with me, and I think I shall succeed.'

He directed me to the studio, and we parted.

I found Cyril in a large and lofty studio in Chelsea, filled with the curiously carved black
furniture of Bombay, mixed, for contrast, with a few Indian cabinets of carved and fretted
ivory exquisitely wrought. He greeted me cordially. The walls were covered with Japanese drawings.
I began by asking him about The Caricaturist.

'Well,' said he, 'now that the House of Commons has become a bear-garden, and t'other House
a waxwork show, and the intellect and culture of the country are leaving politics to dummies
and cads, how can the artistic mind condescend to caricature the political world--a world that
has not only ceased to be intelligent, but has even ceased to be funny? The quarry of The Caricaturist
will be literature, science, and art. Instead of wasting artistic genius upon such small fry
as premiers, diplomatists, and cabinet ministers, our cartoons will be caricatures of the pictures
of Millais, Leighton, Burne-Jones, Rossetti, Madox Brown, Holman Hunt, Watts, Sandys, Whistler,
Wilderspin: our letterpress will be Aristophanic parodies of Tennyson, Browning, Meredith,
Arnold, Morris, Swinburne; game worth flying at, my boy! The art-world is in a dire funk, I
can tell you, for the artistic epidermis has latterly grown genteel and thin.'

Already I was beginning to ask myself whether it was possible to make a confidant of this inscrutable
cynic. 'You are fond of Oriental things?' I said, wishing to turn the subject. I looked round
at the Chinese, Indian, and Japanese monstrosities scattered about the room.

'That,' said he, pointing to a picture of a woman (apparently drunk) who was amusing herself
by chasing butterflies, while a number of broad-faced, mischievous-looking children were teasing
her--'that is the masterpiece of Hokusai. The legend in the corner is "Kiyó-jo chó ni tawamureru,"
which, according to the lying Japanese scholars, means nothing more than "A cracked woman chasing
butterflies." It was left for me to discover that it represents Yoka, the goddess of Fun, sportively
chasing the butterfly souls of men, while the urchins, the little Yokas, are crying, "Ma! you're
screwed."'

'But what are these quaint figures?' I asked, pointing to certain drawings of an obese Japanese
figure, grinning with lazy good-humour above several of the cabinets.

'Hoteï, the fat god of enjoyment.'

'A Japanese god?' I asked.

'Yes, nothing artistic is quite right now unless it has a savour of blue mould or Japan. Wonderful
people, the Japanese, to have discovered the Jolly Hoteï. And here is Hoteï's wife, the goddess-queen
Yoka herself--the real masquerader behind that mystic veil which has so enveloped and bemuddled
the mind of poor Wilderspin. She is to figure in the first number of The Caricaturist.'

He pointed to an object I had only partially observed: a broad-faced burly woman, of about
forty-five years of age, in an eccentric dress of Japanese silks, standing on the model-throne
between two lay figures. 'Good heavens!' I exclaimed, 'why, she's alive.'

'An' kickin', sir,' said a voice that was at once strident and unctuous. Owing to the almond
shape of her sparkling black eyes and the flatness of her nose, the bridge of which had been
broken (most likely in childhood), she looked absurdly like a Japanese woman, save that upon
her quaintly-cut mouth, curving slightly upwards horse-shoe fashion, there was that twitter
of humorous alertness which is perhaps rarely seen in perfection except among the lower orders,
Celtic or Saxon, of London. Her build was that of a Dutch fisher-woman. The set of her head
on her muscular neck showed her to be a woman of immense strength. But still more was her great
physical power indicated by her hands, the fingers of which seemed to have a grip like that
of an eagle's claws.

I then perceived upon an easel a large drawing. 'I have not seen Wilderspin's "Faith and Love,"'
I said; 'but this, I see, must be a caricature of it.'

In it the woman figured as Isis, grinning beneath a veil held over her head by two fantastically-dressed
figures--one having the face of Darwin, the other the face of Wilderspin.

'Allow me,' said Cyril, 'to introduce you to the Goddess Yoka, the true Isis or goddess of
bohemianism and universal joke, who, when she had the chance of I making a rational and common-sense
universe, preferred amusing herself with flamingoes, dromedaries, ring-taile monkeys, and men.'

'Pardon me,' I said; 'I merely called to see you. Good afternoon.'

'Allow me,' said he, turning to the woman, 'to introduce to your celestial majesty Mr. Henry
Aylwin, a kinsman of mine, whose possessions in Little Egypt are as brilliant (judging from
the colours of his royal waggon) as are his possessions in Philistia.'

The woman made me a curtsey of much gravity. 'And allow me to introduce you,' he said, turning
to me, 'to the real original Natura Mystica,--she who for ages upon ages has been trying by
her funny goings-on to teach us that "the Principium hylarchicum of the cosmos" (to  use the
simple phraseology of a great spiritualistic painter) is the benign principle of joke.'

The woman made me another curtsey. 'You forget your exalted position, Mrs. Gudgeon,' said Cyril;
'when a mystic goddess-queen is so condescending as to curtsey she should be careful not to
bend too low. Man is a creature who can never with safety be treated with too much respect.'

'We's all so modest in Primrose Court, that's the wust on us,' replied the woman. 'But, Muster
Cyril, sir, I don't think you've noticed that the queen's t'other eye's got dry now.'

Cyril gravely poured her out a glass of foaming ale from a bottle that stood upon a little
Indian bamboo-table, and handed it to her carefully over the silks, saying to me,

'Her majesty's elegant way of hinting that she likes to wet both eyes!'

Such foolery as this and at such a time irritated me sorely; but there was no help for it now.
Whether I should or should not open to him the subject that had taken me thither, I must, I
saw, let him have his humour till the woman was dismissed.

'And now, goddess,' said he, 'while I am doing justice to the design of your nose--'

'You can't do that, sir,' interjected the creature, 'it's sich a beauty, ha! ha! I allus say
that when I do die, I shall die a-larfin'. They calls me "Jokin' Meg" in Primrose Court. I
shall die a-larfin', they say in Primrose Court, and so I shall--unless I die a-cryin',' she
added in an utterly different and tragic voice which greatly struck me.

'While I am trying to do justice to that beautiful bridge you must tell my friend about yourself
and your daughter, and how you and she first became two shining lights in the art world of London.'

'You makes me blush,' said the woman, 'an' blow me if blushin' ain't bin an' made t'other eye dry.'

She then took another glass of ale, grinned, shook herself, as though preparing for an effort,
and said,

'Well you must know, sir, as my name's Meg Gudgeon, leaseways that was my name till my darter
chrissened me Mrs. Knocker, and I lives in Primrose Court, Great Queen Street, and my reg'lar
perfession is a-sellin' coffee "so airly in the mornin'," and I've got a darter as ain't quite
so 'ansom as me, bein' the moral of her father as is over the water a-livin' in the fine 'Straley.
And you must know, sir, that one of summer's day there comes a knock at our door as sends my
'eart into my mouth and makes me cry out, "The coppers, by jabbers!" and when I goes down and
opens the door, lo! and behold, there stan's a chap wi' great goggle eyes, dressed all in shiny
black, jest like a Quaker.' (Here she made a noise between a laugh and a cough.) 'I allus say
that when I do die I shall die a-larfin'--unless I die a-cryin',' she added, in the same altered
voice that had struck me before.

'Well, mother,' said Cyril, 'and what did the shiny Quaker say?'

'They calls me "Jokin' Meg" in Primrose Court. The shiny Quaker, 'e axes if my name is Gudgeon.
"Well," sez I, "supposin' as my name is Gudgeon,--I don't say it is," says I, "but supposin'
as it is,--what then?" sez I. "But is that your name?" sez 'e. "Supposin' as it was," sez I,
"what then?" "Will you answer my simple kervestion?" sez 'e. "Is your name Mrs. Gudgeon, or
ain't it not?" sez 'e. "An' will you  answer my simple kervestion, Mr. Shiny Quaker?" sez I.
"Supposin' my name was Mrs. Gudgeon,--I don't say it is, but supposin' it was,--what's that
to you?" sez I, for I thought my poor bor Bob what lives in the country had got into trouble
agin and had sent for me.'

'Go on,  mother,'  said Cyril, 'what did the shiny Quaker say then?'

'"Well then," sez 'e, "if your name is Mrs. Gudgeon, there is a pootty gal as is, I am told,
a-livin' along o' you." "Oh, oh, my fine shiny Quaker gent," sez I, an' I flings the door wide
open an' there I stan's in the doorway, "it's her you wants, is it?" sez I. "And pray what
does my fine shiny Quaker gent want wi' my darter?" "Your darter?" sez 'e, an opens 'is mouth
like this, and shets it agin like a rat-trap. "Yis, my darter," sez I. "I s'pose," sez I, "you
think she ain't 'ansom enough to be my darter. No more she ain't," sez I; "but she takes arter
her father, an' werry sorry she is for it," sez I. "I want to put her in the way of 'arnin'
some money," sez 'e. "Oh, do you?" sez I. "How very kind! I'm sure it does a pore woman's 'eart
good to see how kind you gents is to us pore women's pootty darters," sez I,--"even shiny Quaker
gents as is generally so quiet. You're not the fust shiny gent," sez I, "as 'ez followed 'er
'um, I can tell you,--not the fust by a long way; but up to now," sez I, "I've allus managed
to send you all away with a flea in your ears, cuss you for a lot of wicious warm exits, young
and old," sez I, "an' if you don't get out," sez I--"My good woman, you mistake my attentions,"
sez 'e. "Oh no, I don't," sez I, "not a bit on it. It's sich ole sinners as you in your shiny
black coats," sez I, "as I never do mistake, and if you don't git out there's a pump-'andle
behind this werry door, as my poor bor Bob brought up from the country for me to sell for him--"
"My good woman," sez 'e, "I am a hartist," sez 'e. "What's that?" sez I. "A painter," sez 'e.
"A painter, air you? you don't look it," sez I. "P'raps it's holiday time with  ye,"  sez I,
"and that makes you look so varnishy. Well, and what do painters more nor any other trade want
with pore women's pootty darters?" sez I,--"more nor plumbers nor glaziers, nor bricklayers,
for the matter of that?" sez I. "But I ain't a 'ousepainter," sez 'e; "I paints picturs, and
I want this gal to set as a moral," sez 'e. "A moral! an' what's a moral?" sez I. "You ain't
a-goin' to play none o' your shiny-coat larks wi' my pootty darter," sez I. "I wants to paint
her portrait," sez 'e, "an' then put it in a pictur." "Oh," sez I, "you wants to paint her
portrait 'cause she's such a pootty gal, an' then you wants to make believe you drawed it out
of your own 'ead, an' sell it," sez I. "Oh, but you're a downy one, you are, an' no mistake,"
sez I. "But I likes you none the wuss for that. I likes a downy chap, an' I don't see no objection
to that; but how much will you give to paint my pootty darter?" sez I. "P'raps I'd better come
in," sez he. "P'raps you 'ad, if we're a-comin' to bisniss," sez I; "so jest make a long leg
an' step over them dirty-nosed child'n o' Mrs. Mix's, a-settin' on my doorstep, an' I dessay
we sha'n't quarrel over a 'undud p'un' or two," sez I. An' then I bust out a-larfin' agin--I
shall die a-larfin'.' And then she added suddenly in the same tone of sadness, 'if I don't
die a-cryin'.'

'Really, mother,' said Cyril, 'it is very egotistical of you to interrupt your story with prophecies
about the mood in which you will probably shuffle off the Gudgeon coil and take to Gudgeon
wings. It is the shiny Quaker we want to know about.'

'And then the shiny Quaker comes in,' said the woman, 'and I shets the door, being be'ind 'im,
and that skears 'im for a moment, till I bust out a-larfin': "Oh, you needn't be afeard," sez
I;--"when we burgles a Quaker in Primrose Court we never minces 'im for sossingers, 'e's so
'ily in 'is flavour." Well, sir, to cut a long story short, I agrees to take my pootty darter
to the Quaker gent's studero; an' I takes 'er nex' day, an' 'e puts her in a pictur. But afore
long,' continued the old woman, leering round at Cyril, 'lo! and behold, a young swell, p'raps
a young lord in disguise (I don't want to be pussonal, an' so I sha'n't tell his name), 'e
comes into that studero one day when I was a-settlin' up with the Quaker gent for the week's
pay, an' he sets an' admires me, till I sets an' blushes as I'm a-blushin' at this werry moment;
an' when I gits 'ome, I sez to Polly Onion (that's a pal o' mine as lives on the ground floor),
I sez, "Poll, bring my best lookin'-glass out o' my bowdore, an' let's have a look at my old
chops, for I'm blowed if there ain't a young swell, p'raps a young lord in disguise, as 'ez
fell 'ead over ears in love with me." And sure enough when I goes back to the studero the werry
nex' time, my young swell 'e sez to me, "It's your own pootty face as I wants for my moral.
I dessay your darter's a stunner--I ain't seen her yit--but she cain't be nothin' to you."
And I sez to 'im, "In course she ain't, for she takes arter her father's family, pore gal,
and werry sorry she is for it."'

At this  moment a servant entered and said Mr. Wilderspin was waiting in the hall.

All hope having now fled of my getting a private word with Cyril that afternoon, I was preparing
to slip I away; but he would not let me go.

'I don't want Wilderspin to know about the caricature till it is finished,' whispered he to
me; 'so I told Bunner never to let him come suddenly upon me. You'd better be off, mother,'
he said to the old woman, 'and come again to-morrow.'

She bustled up and, throwing off the Japanese finery, left the room, while Cyril removed the
drawing from the easel and hid it away.

'Isn't she delightful?' ejaculated Cyril.

'Delightful! What, that old wretch? All that interests me in her is the change in her voice
after she says she will die laughing.'

'Oh,' said Cyril, 'she seems to be troubled with a drunken son in the country somewhere, who
is always getting into scrapes. Wilderspin's in love with her daughter, a wonderfully beautiful
girl, the finding of whom at the very moment when he was in despair for the want of the right
model gave the final turn to his head. He thinks she was sent to him from Paradise by his mother's
spirit! He does, I assure you.'

'Wilderspin in love with a model!'

'Oh, not à la Raphael.'

'If you think Wilderspin to be in love with any woman, you little know what love is,' I exclaimed.
'He is in love with his art and with that beautiful memory of his mother's self-sacrifice which
has shattered his reason, but built up his genius. Except as a means towards the production
of those pictures that possess him, no model is anything more to him than his palette-knife.
Shall you be alone this evening?'

'This evening I dine at Sleaford's. To-morrow I am due in Paris.'

Wilderspin, who had now entered the studio, seemed genuinely pleased to see me again, and told
me that in a few days he should be able to borrow 'Faith and Love' of its owner for the purpose
of beginning a replica of it, and hoped then to have the pleasure of showing it to me.

'I observed Mrs. Gudgeon in the hall,' said he to Cyril. 'To think that so unlovely a woman
should, through an illusion of the senses, seem to be the mere material mother of her who was
sent to me from the spirit-world in the very depths of my despair! Wonderful are the ways of
the spirit-world. Ah, Mr. Aylwin, did it never occur to you how important is the expression
of the model from whom you work?'

'I am not a painter,' I said, 'only an amateur,' trying to stop a conversation that might run
on for an hour.

'It has never occurred to you! That is strange. Let me read to you a passage upon this subject
just published in The Art Review, written by the great painter D'Arcy.'

He then took from Cyril's table a number of The Art Review, and began to read aloud:--

  It is a curious thing that not only the general public, but the art
  connoisseurs and the writers upon art, although they know full well
  how a painter goes to work in painting a picture, speak and write
  as though they thought that the head of a beautiful woman was drawn
  from the painter's inner consciousness, instead of from the real
  woman who sits to him as a model. Notwithstanding all the technical
  excellence of Raphael, his extraordinary good luck in finding the
  model that suited his genius had very much to do with his enormous
  success and fame. And with all Michael Angelo's instinct for
  grandeur, if he had not been equally lucky in regard to models, he
  could never adequately have expressed that genius. It is impossible
  to give vitality to the painting of any head unless the artist has
  nature before him; this is why no true judge of pictures was ever
  deceived as to the difference between an original and a copy. It
  stands to reason that in every picture of a head, howsoever the
  model's features may be idealised, Nature's own handiwork and
  mastery must dominate.

Here Cyril gently took the magazine from Wilderspin's hand, but did not silence him. 'As I
told you in Wales,' said he to me, 'I had an abundance of imagination, but I wanted some model
in order to realise it. I could never meet a face that came anything nigh my own ideal of expression
as the purely spiritual side of the beauty of woman; and until I did that I knew that I should
achieve nothing whereby the world might recognise a new power in art. In vain did I try to
idealise such faces as did not please me. And this was because nothing could satisfy me but
the perfect type of expression which not even Leonardo nor any other painter in the world had
found--the true Romantic type.'

'I understand you, Mr. Wilderspin,' I said. 'This I perfect type of expression you eventually
found--'

'In the daughter,' said Cyril, 'of the goddess Gudgeon.'

'By the blessing of Mary Wilderspin in heaven,' said Wilderspin.

And then the talk between the two friends ran upon artistic matters, and I heard no more, for
my mind was wandering up and down the London streets.

Wilderspin and I left the house together. As we walked along, side by side, I said to him:
'You spoke just now of your mother's blessing. Am I really to understand that you in an age
like this believe in the power of human blessings and human curses?'

'Do I believe in blessings and curses, Mr. Aylwin?' said Wilderspin solemnly. 'You are asking
me whether I am with or without what your sublime father calls the "most powerful of the primary
instincts of man." He tells us in The Veiled Queen that "Even in this material age of ours
there is not a single soul that does not in its inner depths acknowledge the power of the unseen
world. The most hardened materialist," says he, "believes in what he calls sometimes 'luck'
and sometimes 'fortune.'" Let me advise you, Mr. Aylwin, to study the voice of your inspired
father. I will send a set of his writings to your hotel to-morrow. And, Mr. Aylwin, my duty
compels me to speak very plainly to you upon a subject that has troubled me since I had the
honour of meeting you in Wales. There is but one commandment in the decalogue to which a distinct
promise of reward is attached; it is that which bids us honour our fathers and our mothers.
Good-day, sir.'

IX

THE PALACE OF NIN-KI-GAL

I

Shortly after this I met my mother at our solicitor's office according to appointment. As she
was on the eve of departing for the Continent, it was necessary that various family matters
should be arranged. On the day following, as I was about to leave my hotel to call at Cyril's
studio, rather doubtful, after the frivolity I had lately witnessed, as to whether or not I
should unburden my heart to such a man, he entered my room in company with Wilderspin, the
latter carrying a parcel of books.

'I have brought your father's works,' Wilderspin said.

'Thank you very much,' I replied, taking the books. 'And when am I to call and see your picture?
Have you yet got it back from the owner?'

'"Faith and Love" is now in my studio,' he replied; 'but I will ask you not to call upon me
yet for a few days. I hope to be too busily engaged upon another picture to afford a moment
to any one save the model--that is,' he added with a sigh, 'should she make her appearance.'

'A picture of his called "Ruth and Boaz,"' interposed Cyril. 'Wilderspin is repainting the
face from that favourite model of his of whom you heard so much in Wales. But the fact is the
model is rather out of sorts at this moment, and Wilderspin is fearful that she may not turn
up to-day. Hence the melancholy you see on his face. I try to console him, however, by assuring
him that the daughter of a mamma with such a sharp appreciation of half-crowns as the lady
you saw at my studio the other day is sure to turn up in due time as sound as a roach.'

Wilderspin shook his head gravely.

'Good heavens!' I muttered, 'when am I to hear the last of painters' models?' Then turning
to Wilderspin, I said,

'This is the model to whom you feel so deeply indebted?'

'Deeply indebted, indeed!' exclaimed he in a fervid tone, taking a chair and playing with his
hat between his knees, in his previous fashion when beginning one of his monologues. Nor is
it encouraging to arm for the defence of the Convention, which is despised, or to oppose the
violence of a populace, who, however misguided, are more objects
of compassion than of punishment.

Fouquier
Tinville, with sixteen revolutionary Judges and Jurymen, have been tried and executed, at the
moment when the instigators of their crimes, Billaud-Varennes, Collot,& c. were sentenced by the Convention
to a banishment, which is probably the object of their wishes. This Tinville and his accomplices,
who condemned thousands with such ferocious gaiety, beheld the approach of death themselves
with a mixture of rage and terror, that even cowardice and guilt do not always exhibit. It seems
an awful dispensation of Providence, that they who were inhuman enough to wish to deprive their victims
of the courage which enabled them to submit to their fate with resignation, should in their
last moments want that courage, and die despairing, furious, and uttering imprecations, which
were returned by the enraged multitude.*-- Yours,& c.* Some of the
Jurymen were in the habit of taking caricatures of the prisoners while
they condemned them.

Among the papers of the Revolutionary Tribunal were found blank sentences,
which were occasionally sent to the Committee of Public Safety, to
be filled up with the names of those intended to be sacrificed.--
The name of one of the Jurymen executed on this occasion was Leroi,
but being a very ardent republican, he had changed it for that of
Citizen Tenth of August.

Amiens, May 26, 1795. Our journey to Paris has been postponed by the
insurrection which occurred on the first and second of Prairial,
(20th and 21st of May,) and which was not like that of Germinal, fabricated--
but a real and violent attempt of the Jacobins to regain their power.

Of this event it is to be remarked, that the people of Paris were at first merely spectators, and
that the Convention were at length defended by the very classes which they have so long oppressed
under the denomination of aristocrats. For several hours the Assembly was
surrounded, and in the power of its enemies; the head of Ferraud, a
deputy, was borne in triumph to the hall;* and but for the impolitic
precipitation of the Jacobins, the present government might have been
destroyed.* The head of Ferraud was placed on a pole, and, after being
paraded about the Hall, stationed opposite the President.

It is impossible to execrate sufficiently this savage triumph; but
similar scenes had been applauded on the fourteenth of July and the
fifth and sixth of October 1789; and the Parisians had learned, from
the example of the Convention themselves, that to rejoice in the daily
sacrifice of fifty or sixty people, was an act of patriotism.

As to the epithets of Coquin, Scelerats, Voleurs,& c. which were now bestowed on the Assembly, they
were only what the members were in the constant habit of applying
to each other. The assassin of Ferraud being afterwards taken and sentenced
to the Guillotine, was rescued by the mob at the place of execution,
and the inhabitants of the Fauxbourg St. Antoine were in revolt for
two days on this occasion, nor would they give him up until abandoned
by the cannoneers of their party.-- It is singular, and does no honour
to the revolutionary school, or the people of Paris, that Madame Elizabeth,
Malsherbes, Cecile Renaud, and thousands of others, should perish
innocently, and that the only effort of this kind should be exerted
in favour of a murderer who deserved even a worse death.
     Light is not seen; in darkness they dwell:
     Ghosts, like birds, flutter their wings there;
     On the gate and the gate-posts the dust lies undisturbed.'

Another part of the inscription describes Nin-ki-gal on her throne scattering over the earth
the 'Seeds of Life and Death,' and chanting her responses to the Sibyl, and to the prayers
of the shapes kneeling around her, the dead gods and the souls of all the sons of men. And
I often wonder whether my ancestress, Fenella Stanley, had any traditional knowledge of the
Queen of Death when she had her portrait painted as the Sibyl. But whether she had or not,
I never think of this Babylonian Sibyl kneeling before Nin-ki-gal, surrounded by gods and men,
without seeing in the Sibyl's face the grand features of Fenella Stanley.

                THE SIBYL.

     What answer, O Nin-ki-gal?
     What answer, O Nin-ki-gal?
     Have pity, O Queen of Queens!

                NIN-KI-GAL

       Life's fountain flows,
     And still the drink is Death's;
       Life's garden blows,
     And still 'tis Ashtoreth's; [Footnote]
       But all is Nin-ki-gal's.
     I lent the drink of Day
       To man and beast;
     I lent the drink of Day
       To gods for feast;
     I poured the river of Night
       On gods surceased:
     Their blood was Nin-ki-gal's.

[Footnote: Hathor.]

                THE SIBYL.

     What sowest thou, Nin-ki-gal?

     What knowest thou, Nin-ki-gal?

       Nor king nor slave I know,
     Nor tribes, nor shibboleths;
       But Life-in-Death I know--
     Yea, Nin-ki-gal I know--
       Life's Queen and Death's.

And what was the effect upon me of these communings with the ancestors whose superstitions
I have, perhaps, been throughout this narrative treating in a spirit that hardly becomes their
descendant?

The best and briefest way of answering this question is to confess not what I thought, as I
went on studying my father's book, its strange theories and revelations, but what I did. I
read the book all day long: I read it all the next day. I cannot say what days passed. One
night I resumed my wanderings in the streets for an hour or two, and then returned home and
went to bed,--but not to sleep. For me there was no more sleep till those ancestral voices
could be quelled--till that sound of Winnie's song in the street could be stopped in my ears.
For very relief from them I again leapt out of bed, lit a candle, unlocked the cabinet, and
taking out the amulet, proceeded to examine the I facets as I did once before when I heard
in the Swiss cottage these words of my stricken father:--

'Should you ever come to love as I have loved, you will find that materialism is intolerable--is
hell itself--to the heart that has known a passion like mine. You will find that it is madness,
Hal, madness, to believe in the word "never"!

III

The bright light of morning was pouring through the window. I gave a start of horror, and cried,
'Whose face?' Opposite to me there seemed to be sitting on a bed the figure of a man with a
fiery cross upon his breast. That strange wild light upon the face, as it the pains at the
heart were flickering up through the flesh--where had I seen it? For a moment when, in Switzerland,
my father bared his bosom to me, that ancestral flame had flashed up into his dull lineaments.
But upon the picture of 'The Sibyl' in the portrait-gallery that illumination was perpetual!

'It is merely my own reflex in a looking-glass,' I exclaimed.

Without knowing it I had slung the cross round my neck. Sharp as needles were those diamond
and ruby points as I sat and gazed in the glass. Slowly a sensation arose on my breast, of
pain that was a pleasure wild and new. I was feeling the facet. But the tears trickling down,
salt, through my moustache tears of laughter; for Sinfi Lovell seemed again murmuring, 'For
good or for ill, you must dig deep to bury your daddy.'

What thoughts and what sensations were mine as I sat there, pressing the sharp stones into
my breast, thinking of her to whom the sacred symbol had come, not as a blessing, but as a
curse--what agonies were mine as I sat there sobbing the one word 'Winnie,'--could be understood
by myself alone, the latest blossom of the passionate blood that for generations had brought
bliss and bale to the Aylwins.

*     *     *     *     *

I cannot tell what I felt and thought, but only what I did. And while I did it my reason was
all the time scoffing at my heart (for whose imperious behoof the wild, mad things I am about
to record were done)--scoffing, as an Asiatic malefactor will sometimes scoff at the executioner
whose pitiless and conquering saw is severing his bleeding body in twain. I arose and murmured
ironically to Fenella Stanley as I wrapped the cross in a handkerchief and placed it in a hand-valise:
'Secrecy is the first thing for us sacrilegists to consider, dear Sibyl, in placing a valuable
jewel in a tomb in a deserted church. To take any one into our confidence would be impossible;
we must go alone. But to open the tomb and, close it again, and leave no trace of what has
been done, will require all our skill. And as burglars' jemmies are not on open sale we must
buy, on our way to the railway-station, screw-drivers, chisels, a hammer, and a lantern; for
who should know better than you, dear Sibyl, that the palace of Nin-ki-gal is dark?'

IV

As I hurried towards the Great Eastern Railway station, I felt like a horse drawn by a Gypsy
whisperer to do something against his own will, and yet in the street I stopped to buy the
tools. Reaching Dullingham in the afternoon, I lunched there; and as I walked thence along
the cliff, towards Raxton, I became more calm and collected. I determined not to go near the
Hall, lest my movements should be watched by the servants. The old churchyard was full of workmen
of the navvy kind, and I learned that for the safety of the public it had now become necessary
to hurl down upon the sands some enormous masses of the cliff newly disintegrated by the land-springs.
I descended the gangway at Flinty Point, and concealing my implements behind a boulder in the
cliff, ascended Needle Point, and went into the town.

I had previously become aware, from conversations with my mother, that Wynne had been succeeded
as custodian of the old church by Shales, the humpbacked tailor, and I apprehended no difficulty
in getting the keys of the church and crypt from my simple-minded acquaintance, without arousing
his suspicions as to my mission.

Therefore I went at once to the tailor's shop, but found that Shales was out, attending an
annual Odd-Fellows' carousal at Graylingham. Consequently I was obliged to open my business
to his mother, a far shrewder person, and one who might be much more difficult to deal with.
However, the fact of the navvies being at work so close to a church whose chancel belonged
to my family afforded an excellent motive for my visit. But before I could introduce the subject
to Mrs. Shales, I had to listen to an exhaustive chronicle of Raxton and Graylingham doings
since I had left. Hence by the time I quitted her (with a promise to return the keys in the
morning) the sun was setting.

But, as I walked along Wilderness Road towards the church, a new and unexpected difficulty
presented itself to my mind. I could not, without running the risk of an interruption, enter
the church till after the Odd-Fellows had all returned from Graylingham, as Shales and his
companions would have to pass along Wilderness Road, which skirts the churchyard. Shales himself
was as short-sighted as a bat; but his companions had the usual long-sight of agriculturists,
and would descry the slightest movement in the church-yard, or any glimmer of light at the
church windows.

I would have postponed my enterprise till the morrow; but another important appointment at
the office of our solicitor with my mother, precluded the possibility of this. So my visit
to the catacomb must perforce be late at night.

Accordingly I descended the cliff and waited to hear the return of the carousers. There I sat
down upon the well-remembered boulder, lost in recollections of all that had passed on those
sands, while over the sea the night spread like the widening, darkening wings of an enormous
spectral bird, whose brooding voice was the drone of the waves as they came nearer and nearer.
Then I began to think of what lay before me, of the strangeness and wildness of my life.

Then I recalled, with a shudder I could not repress, those sepulchral chambers beneath the
church, which, owing, I believe, to the directions in an ancestor's will, had been the means
of saving it from demolition after a large portion of the churchyard bad been condemned as
dangerous. Raxton church is the only one along the coast that can boast a crypt: all the churches
are Perpendicular in style, too late for crypts; a fact which is supposed to indicate that
Raxton was, in very early times, a seaside town of great importance; for the crypt is much
older than the church, and of an entirely different kind of architecture. It was once a depository
for the bones of Danish warriors killed before the Norman Conquest; it extends not only beneath
the chancel, as in most cases, but beneath both the transepts. The vaulting (supported partly
on low columns of remarkable beauty and partly on the basement wall of the church) is therefore
of unusual extent. The external door in the churchyard is now hidden by drifted sand and mould.

Then my mind began to make pictures for itself of my father lying in his coffin. I have, I
think, already said that his body had been embalmed, in order to allow of its being conveyed
from Switzerland to England. Therefore I had no dread of being confronted by that attribute
of Death alluded to by D'Arcy which is the most cruel and terrible of all--corruption. But
then what change should I find in the expression of those features which on the day of the
interment had looked so calm? A thrill ran through my frame as I pictured myself raising the
coffin-lid, and finding expressed upon the face, in language more appalling than any malediction
in articulate speech--the curse!

At about ten o'clock I mounted the gangway and waited behind a deserted bungalow built for
Fenella Stanley till I should hear the Odd-Fellows returning. In a few minutes I heard them
approaching. They were singing snatches of songs they had been entertained with at Graylingham,
and chatting and laughing as they went down Wilderness Road towards Raxton. As they passed
the bungalow and adjoining mill there was a silence.

I heard one man say: ''Ez Tom Wynne's ghooast bin seen here o' late?'

'Nooa, but the Squoire's 'ez,' said another.

'I say they've both on 'em bin seed,' exclaimed a third voice, which I recognised to be that
of old Lantoff of the 'Fishing Smack'--'leaseways, if they ain't bin seed they've bin 'eeared.
One Saturday arternoon old Sal Gunn wur in the church a-cleanin' The Hall brasses, an' jist
afore sundown, as she wur a-comin' away, she 'eeared a awful scrimmage an squealin' in the
crypt, and she 'eeared the v'ice o' the Squoire a-callin' out, and she 'eeared Tom Wynne's
v'ice a-cussin' an' a-swearin' at 'im. And more nor that, Sal told me that on the night when
the Squoire wur buried, she seed Tom a-draggin' the Squoire's body along the churchyard to
the cliff; only she never spoke on it at the time. And Sal says she larnt in a dream that the
moment as Tom went and laid 'is 'and on that 'ere dimind cross in the coffin, up springs Squoire
and claps 'old o' Tom's throat, and Tom takes 'old on him, and drags him out o' the church,
meanin' to chuck him over the cliffs, when God o' mighty, as wur a-keepin' 'is eye on Tom all
the time, he jist lets go o' the cliffs and down they falls, and kills Tom, an' buries him
an' Squoire tew.'

'Did you say Sal seed all that in a dream? or did she see it in ole ale, Muster Lantoff?' said
Shales.

'Well,' replied Lantoff, as the party turned past the bungalow, 'p'raps it wur ole ale as made
me see in this very bungaler when I wur a bor the ghooast o' the great Gypsy lady whose pictur
hangs up at the Hall, her as they used to call the old Squoire's Witch-wife.' Soon the singing
and laughing were renewed; and I stood and listened to the sounds till they died away in the
distance. Then I unlocked the church door and entered.

V

As I walked down an aisle, the echoes of my footsteps seemed almost loud enough to be heard
on the Wilderness Road. No one could have a more contemptuous disbelief in ghosts than I, and
yet the man's words about the ghost of Fenella Stanley haunted me. When I reached the heavy
nailed door leading down to the crypt, I lit the lantern. The rusty key turned so stiffly in
the lock, that, to relieve my hands (which were burdened with the implements I had brought),
I slung the hair-chain of the cross around my neck, intending merely to raise the coffin-lid
sufficiently high to admit of my slipping the amulet in.

Having, with much difficulty, opened the door, I entered the crypt. The atmosphere, though
not noisome, was heavy, and charged with an influence that worked an extraordinary effect upon
my brain and nerves. It was as though my personality were becoming dissipated, until at last
it was partly the reflex of ancestral experiences. Scarcely had this mood passed before a sensation
came upon me of being fanned as if by clammy bat-like wings; and then the idea seized me that
the crypt scintillated with the eyes of a malignant foe. It was as if the curse which, until
I heard Winnie a beggar singing in the street, had been to me but a collocation of maledictory
words, harmless save in their effect upon her superstitious mind, had here assumed an actual
corporeal shape. In the uncertain light shed by the lantern, I seemed to see the face of this
embodied curse with an ever-changing mockery of expression; at one moment wearing the features
of my father; at another those of Tom Wynne; at another the leer of the old woman I had seen
in Cyril's studio.

'It is an illusion,' I said, as I closed my eyes to shut it out; 'it is an illusion, born of
opiate fumes or else of an over-taxed brain and an exhausted stomach.' Yet it disturbed me
as much as if my reason had accepted it as real. Against this foe I seemed to be fighting towards
my father's coffin as a dreamer lights against a nightmare, and At last I fell over one of
the heaps of old Danish bones in a corner of the crypt. The candle fell from my lantern, and
I was in darkness. As I sat there I passed into a semi-conscious state. I saw sitting at the
apex of a towering pyramid, built of phosphorescent human bones that reached far, far above
the stars, the 'Queen of Death, Nin-ki-gal,' scattering seeds over the earth below. At the
pyramid's base knelt the suppliant figure of a Sibyl pleading with the Queen of Death:

       What answer, O Nin-ki-gal?
       Have pity, O Queen of Queens!

And the Sibyl's face was that of Fenella Stanley--her voice was that of Sinfi Lovell.

And then from that dizzy height seemed to come a cackling laugh:--

'You makes me blush, an' blow me if blushin' ain't bin an' made t'other eye dry.

VI

I sprang up, struck a light and relit the candle, and soon reached the coffin resting on a
stone table. I found, on examining it, that although it had been screwed down after the discovery
of the violation, the work had been so loosely done that a few turns of the screwdriver were
sufficient to set the lid free. Then I paused; for to raise the loosened lid (knowing as I
did that it was only the blood's inherited follies that had conquered my rationalism and induced
me to disturb the tomb) seemed to require the strength of a giant. Moreover, the fantastic
terror of old Lantoff's story, which at another time would have made me smile, also took bodily
shape, and the picture of a dreadful struggle at the edge of the cliff between Winnie's father
and mine seemed to hang in the air--a fascinating mirage of ghastly horror.

*     *     *     *     *

At last, by an immense effort of will, I closed my eyes and pushed the lid violently on one side.

*     *     *     *     *

The 'sweet odours and divers kinds of spices' of the Jewish embalmer rose like a gust of incense--rose
and spread through the crypt like the sweet breath of a new-born blessing, till the air of
the charnel-house seemed laden with a mingled odour of indescribable sweetness. Never had any
odour so delighted my senses; never had any sensuous influence so soothed my soul.

While I stood inhaling the scents of opobalsam, and cinnamon and myrrh, and wine of palm and
oil of cedar, and all the other spices of the Pharaohs, mingled in one strange aromatic cloud,
my personality seemed again to become, in part, the reflex of ancestral experiences.

I opened my eyes. I looked into the coffin. The face (which had been left by the embalmer exposed)
confronted mine. 'Fenella Stanley!' I cried, for the great transfigurer Death had written upon
my father's brow that self-same message which the passions of a thousand Romany ancestors had
set upon the face of her whose portrait hung in the picture-gallery. And the rubies and diamonds
and beryls of the cross as it now hung upon my breast, catching the light of the opened lantern
in my left hand, shed over the features an indescribable reflex hue of quivering rose.

Beneath his head I placed the silver casket: I hung the hair-chain round his neck: I laid upon
his breast the long-loved memento of his love and the parchment scroll.

Then I sank down by the coffin, and prayed. I knew not what or why. But never since the first
human prayer was breathed did there rise to heaven a supplication so incoherent and so wild
as mine. Then I rose, and laying my hand upon my father's cold brow, I said: 'You have forgiven
me for all the wild words that I uttered in my long agony. They were but the voice of intolerable
misery rebelling against itself. You, who suffered so much--who know so well those flames burning
at the heart's core--those flames before which all the forces of the man go down like prairie-grass
before the fire and wind--you have forgiven me. You who knew the meaning of the wild word Love--you
have forgiven your suffering son, stricken like yourself. You have forgiven me, father, and
forgiven him, the despoiler of your tomb: you have removed the curse, and his child--his innocent
child--is free.'

I replaced the coffin-lid, and screwing it down left the crypt, so buoyant and exhilarated
that I stopped in the churchyard and asked myself: 'Do I, then, really believe that she was
under a curse? Do I really relieve that my restoring the amulet has removed it? Have I really
come to this?'

Throughout all these proceedings--yes, even amidst that prayer to Heaven, amidst that impassioned
appeal to my dead father--had my reason been keeping up that scoffing at my heart which I have
before described.

I knocked up the landlord of the 'White Hart,' and, turning into bed, slept my first peaceful
sleep since my trouble.

To escape awkward questions, I did not in the morning take back the keys to Shales's house
myself, but sent them, and walking to Dullingham took the train to London.

X

BEHIND THE VEIL

I

When I met my mother at the solicitor's office next day, she was astonished at my cheerfulness
and at the general change in me. As we left the office together, she said,

'Everything is now arranged: your aunt and I have decided to accept Lord Sleaford's invitation
to go for a cruise in his yacht. We leave to-morrow evening. Lord Sleaford has promised to
take me to-morrow afternoon to Mr. Wilderspin's studio, to see the great painter's portrait
of me, which is now, I understand, quite finished.'

'Why did you not ask me to accompany you, instead of asking Sleaford?'

'I did not know that you would care to do so.' 'Dear mother,' I said, in a tender tone that
startled her, 'you must let me go with you and Sleaford to the studio.'

She consented, and on the following afternoon I called at my aunt's house in Belgrave Square.
The hall was full of portmanteaux, boxes, and packages. Sleaford had already arrived, and was
waiting with stolid patience for my mother, who had gone to her room to dress. He began to
talk to me about the astonishing gifts of Cyril Aylwin.

'Have you made an appointment with Wilderspin?' I said to my mother, when she  entered the
room. 'The last time I saw him he seemed to be much occupied with some disturbing affairs of
his own.'

'Appointment? No,' said she, with an air that seemed to imply that an Aylwin, even with Gypsy
blood in his veins, in calling upon Art, was conferring upon it a favour to be welcomed at
any time.

'I have not seen this portrait yet,' said Sleaford, as the carriage moved off; 'but Cyril Aylwin
says it is magnificent, and if anybody knows what's good and what's bad it's Cyril Aylwin.'

'Do you know,' said my mother to me, 'I have taken vastly to this eccentric kinsman of ours?
I had really no idea that a bohemian could be so much like a gentleman; but, of course, an
Aylwin must always be an Aylwin.'

'Haw, haw!' laughed Sleaford to himself, 'that's good about Cyril Aylwin though--that's dooced
good.'

'We shall see Wilderspin's great picture, "Faith and Love," at the same time,' I said, as we
approached Chelsea; 'for Wilderspin tells me that he has borrowed it from the owner to make
a replica of it.'

'That is very fortunate,' said my mother. 'I have the greatest desire to see this picture and
its wonderful predella. Wilderspin is one of the few painters who revert to the predella of
the old masters. He is said to combine the colour of him whom he calls "his master" with the
draughtsmanship and intellect of Shields, whose stained-glass windows the owner was showing
me the other day at Eaton Hall; and do you know, Henry, that the painter of this wonderful
"Faith and Love" is never tired of declaring that the subject was inspired by your dear father?'

When we reached the studio the servant said that Mr. Wilderspin was much indisposed that afternoon,
and was also just getting ready to go to Paris, where he was to join Mr. Cyril in his studio;
'but perhaps he would see us,'--an announcement that brought a severe look to my mother's face,
and another half-suppressed 'Haw, haw!' from Sleaford's deep chest.

Mounting the broad old staircase, we found ourselves in the studio of the famous spiritualist-painter--one
of two studios; for Wilderspin had turned two rooms communicating with each other by folding-doors
into a sort of double studio. One of these rooms, which was of moderate size, fronted the north-east,
the other faced the south-west. There were (as I soon discovered) easels in both. It was the
smaller of these rooms into which we were now shown by the servant. The walls were covered
with sketches and drawings in various stages, and photographs of sculpture.

'By Jove, that's dooced like!' said Sleaford, pointing to my mother's portrait, which was standing
on the floor, as though just returned from the frame-maker's: 'ask Cyril Aylwin if it ain't
when you see him.'

It was a truly magnificent painting, but more full of imagination than of actual portraiture.

One of the windows was open, and the noise of an anvil from a blacksmith's shop in Maud Street
came into the room.

'Do you know,' said my mother in an undertone, 'that this strange genius can only, when in
London, work to the sound of a blacksmith's anvil? Nothing will induce him to paint a portrait
out of his own studio; and I observed, when I was sitting to him here, that sometimes when
the noise from the anvil ceased he laid down his brush and waited for the hideous din to be
resumed.

Wilderspin now came through the folding-doors, and greeted us in his usual simple, courteous
way. But I saw that he was in trouble. 'The portrait will look better yet,' he said. 'I always
leave the final glazing till the picture is in the frame.'

After we had thoroughly examined the portrait, we turned to look at a large canvas upon an
easel. Wilderspin had evidently been working upon it very lately.

'That's "Ruth and Boaz," don't you know?' said Sleaford. 'Finest crop of barley I ever saw
in my life, judgin' from the size of the sheaves. Barley paid better than wheat last year.
So the farmers all say.'

'Don't look at it,' said Wilderspin. 'I have been taking out part of Ruth, and was just beginning
to repaint her from the shoulders upwards. It will never be finished now,' he continued with
a sigh.

We asked him to allow us to see 'Faith and Love.'

'It is in the next room,' said he, 'but the predella is here on the next easel. I have removed
it from underneath the picture to work upon.'

'The head of Ruth has been taken out,' said my mother, turning to me: 'but isn't it like an
old master? You ought to see the marvellous Pre-Raphaelite pictures at Mr. Graham's and Mr.
Leyland's, Henry.'

'Pre-Raphaelites?' said Wilderspin, 'the Master rhymes, madam, and Burne-Jones actually reads
the rhymes! However, they are on the right track in art, though neither has the slightest intercourse
with the spirit world, not the slightest.'

'My exploits as a painter have not been noticeable as yet,' I said; 'but an amateur may know
what a barley-field is. That is one before us. He may know what a man in love is; Boaz there
is in love.'

'I wish we could see the woman's face,' said Sleaford. 'A woman, you know, without a face--'

'Come and see the predella of "Faith and Love,"' said Wilderspin, and he moved towards an easel
where rested the predella, a long narrow picture without a frame. My mother followed him, leaving
me standing before the picture of 'Ruth and Boaz.' Although the head of Ruth had been painted
out, the picture seemed to throb with life. Boaz had just discovered the Moabitish maiden in
the gleaming barley-field, as she had risen from stooping to glean the corn. Two ears of barley
were in one hand. In the face of Boaz was an expression of surprise, and his eyes were alight
with admiration. The picture was finished with the exception of the face of Ruth, which was
but newly sketched in. Wilderspin had contrived to make her attitude and even the very barley-ears
in her hand (one of which was dangling between her slender fingers in the act of falling) express
innocent perturbation and girlish modesty.

II

At length I joined the others, who were standing before the easel, looking at the predella
which, as Wilderspin again took care to tell us, had been removed from the famous picture of
'Faith and Love' we were about to see in the next room--'the culmination and final expression
of the Renascence of Wonder in Art.'

'Perhaps it is fortunate,' said he, 'that I happen to be working at this very time upon the
predella, which acts as a key to the meaning of the design. You will now have the advantage
of seeing the predella before you see the picture itself. And really it would be to the advantage
of the picture if every one could see it under like circumstances; it would add immensely to
the effect of the design. Look well and carefully at the predella first. Try to imagine the
Oriental Queen behind that veil, then observe the way in which the features are expressed through
the veil; and then, but not till then, come into the adjoining room and see the picture itself,
see what Isis really is (according to the sublime idea of Philip Aylwin) when Faith and Love,
the twin angels of all true art, upraise the veil.'

He then turned and passed through the folding-doors into a room of great size, crowded with
easels, upon which pictures were resting.

The predella before me seemed a miracle of imaginative power. At that time I had not seen the
work of the great poet-painter of modern times whom Wilderspin called 'the Master,' and by
whom he had been unconsciously inspired.

'Most beautiful!' my mother ejaculated, as we three lingered before the predella. 'Do look
at the filmy texture of the veil.'

'Looks more like steam than a white veil, don't you know?' said Sleaford.

'Like steam, my lord?' exclaimed Wilderspin from the next room. 'The painter of that veil had
peculiar privileges. As a child he had been in the habit of watching a face through the curtain
of steam around a blacksmith's forge when hot iron is plunged into the water-trench, and the
face, my lord, though begrimed by earthly toil, was an angel's. No wonder, then, that the painting
in that veil is unique in art. The flesh-tints that are pearly and yet rosy seem, as you observe,
to be breaking through it, and yet you cannot say what is the actual expression on the face.
But now come and see the picture itself.'

My mother and Sleaford lingered for a moment longer, and then passed between the folding-doors.

But I did not follow them; I could not. For now there was something in the predella before
me which fascinated me, I scarcely knew why. It was the figure of the queen--the figure between
the two sleeping angels--the figure behind the veil, and expressed by the veil--that enthralled me.

There was a turn about the outlined neck and head that riveted my gaze; and, as I looked from
these to the veil falling over the face, a vision seemed to be rapidly growing before my eyes--a
vision that stopped my breath--a vision of a face struggling to express itself through that
snowy film--whose face?

*      *      *      *      *

'In the crypt my senses had a kind of license to play me tricks,' I murmured; 'but now and
here my reason shall conquer.'

And I stood and gazed at the veil. During all the time I could hear every word of the talk
between Wilderspin, Sleaford, and my mother before the picture in the other room.

'Awfully fine picture,' said Sleaford, 'but the Queen there--Isis: more like a European face
than an Egyptian. I've been to Egypt a good deal, don't you know?'

'This is not an historical painting, my lord. As Philip Aylwin says, "the only soul-satisfying
function of art is to give what Zoroaster calls 'apparent pictures of unapparent realities.'"
Perfect beauty has no nationality; hers has none. All the perfections of woman culminate in
her. How can she then be disfigured by paltry characteristics of this or that race or nation?
In looking at that group, my lord, nationality is forgotten, and should be forgotten. She is
the type of Ideal Beauty whose veil can never be raised save by the two angels of all true
art, Faith and Love. She is the type of Nature, too, whose secret, as Philip Aylwin says, "no
science but that of Faith and Love can read."'

'Seems to be the type of a good deal; but it's all right, don't you know? Awfully fine picture!
Awfully fine woman!' said Sleaford in a conciliatory tone. 'She's a good deal fairer, though,
than any Eastern women I've seen; but then I suppose she has worn a veil al her life up to
now. Most of 'em take sly peeps, and let in the hot Oriental sun, and that tans 'em, don't
you know?'

'And the original of this face?' I heard my mother say in a voice that seemed agitated; 'could
you tell me something about the original of this remarkable face?' 'The model?' said Wilderspin.
'We are not often asked about our models, but a model like that would endow mediocrity itself
with genius, for, though apparently, and by way of beneficent illusion, the daughter of an
earthly costermonger, she was a wanderer from another and a better world. She is not more beautiful
here than when I saw her first in the sunlight on that memorable day, at the corner of Essex
Street, Strand, bare-headed, her shoulders shining like patches of polished ivory here and
there through the rents in her tattered dress, while she stood gazing before her, murmuring
a verse of Scripture, perfectly unconscious whether she was dressed in rags or velvet; her eyes--'

'The eyes--it is the eyes, don't you know--it is the eyes that are not quite right,' said Sleaford.
'Blue eyes with black eyelashes are awfully fine; you don't see 'em in Egypt. But I suppose
that's the type of something too. Types always floor me, don't you know?'

'But the scene is no longer Egypt, my lord; it is Corinth,' replied Wilderspin.

During this dialogue I stood motionless before the predella: I could not stir; my feet seemed
fixed in the floor by what can only be described as a wild passion of expectation. As I stood
there a marvellous change appeared to be coming over the veiled figure of the predella. The
veil seemed to be growing more and more filmy--more and more like the 'steam' to which Sleaford
had compared it, till at last it resolved itself into a veil of mist--into the rainbow-tinted
vapours of a gorgeous mountain sunrise--and looking straight at me were two blue eyes sparkling
with childish happiness and childish greeting, through flushed mists across a pool on Snowdon.

That she was found at last my heart knew, though my brain was dazed. That in the next room,
within a few yards of me, my mother and Sleaford and Wilderspin were looking at the picture
of Winifred's face unclouded by the veil, my heart knew as clearly as though my eyes were gazing
at it, and yet I could not stir. Yes, I knew that she was now neither a beggar in the street,
nor a prisoner in one of the dens of London, nor starving in a squalid garret, but was safe
under the sheltering protection of a good man. I knew that I had only to pass between those
folding-doors to see her in Wilderspin's picture--see her dressed in the 'azure-coloured tunic
bordered with stars,' and the upper garment of the 'colour of the moon at moonrise,' which
Wilderspin had so vividly described in Wales; and yet, paralysed by expectation, I could not stir.

III

Soon I was conscious that my mother, Sleaford, and Wilderspin were standing by my side, that
Wilderspin's hand was laid on my arm, and that I was pointing at the predella--pointing and
muttering,

'She lives! She is saved.'

My mother led me into the other studio, and I stood before the great picture. Wilderspin and
Sleaford, feeling that something had occurred of a private and delicate nature, lingered out
of hearing in the smaller studio.

'I must be taken to her at once,' I muttered to my mother; 'at once.'

So living was the portrait of Winifred that I felt that she must be close at hand. I looked
round to see if she herself were not standing by me dressed in the dazzling draperies gleaming
from Wilderspin's superb canvas.

But in place of Winifred the profile of my mother's face, cold, proud, and white, met my gaze.
Again did the stress of overmastering emotion make of me a child, as it had done on the night
of the landslip. 'Mother!' I said, 'you see who it is?'

She made no answer: she stood looking steadfastly at the picture; but the tremor of the nostrils,
the long deep breaths she drew, told me of the fierce struggle waging within her breast between
conscience and pity, with rage and cruel pride. My old awe of her returned. I was a little
boy again, trembling for Winnie. In some unaccountable and, I believe, unprecedented way I
had always felt that she, my own mother, belonged to some haughty race superior to mine and
Winnie's; and nothing but the intensity of my love for Winnie could ever have caused me to
rebel against my mother.

'Dear mother,' I murmured, 'all the mischief and sorrow and pain are ended now; and we shall
all be happy; for you have a kind heart, dear, and cannot help loving poor Winnie, when you
come to know her.'

She made no answer save that her lips slowly reddened again after the pallor; then came a quiver
in them, as though pity were conquering pride within her breast, and then that contemptuous
curl that had often in the past cowed the heart of the fearless and pugnacious boy whom no
peril of sea or land could appal.

'She is found,' I said. 'And, mother, there is no longer an estrangement between you and me.
I forgive you everything now.'

I leapt from her as though I had been stung, so sudden and unexpected was the look of scorn
that came over her face as she said, 'You forgive  me!' It recalled my struggle with her on
that dreadful night: and in a moment I became myself again. The pleading boy became, at a flash,
the stern and angry man that misery had made him. With my heart hedged once more with points
of steel to all the world but Winnie, I turned away. I did not know then that her attitude
towards me at this moment came from the final struggle in her breast between her pride and
that remorse which afterwards took possession of her and seemed as though it would make the
remainder of her life a tragedy without a smile in it. At that moment Wilderspin and Sleaford
came in from the smaller studio. 'Where is she?' I said to Wilderspin. 'Take me to her at once--take
me to her who sat for this picture. It is she whom I and Sinfi Lovell were seeking in Wales.'

A look of utter astonishment, then one of painful perplexity, came over his face--a look which
I attributed to his having heard part of the conversation between my mother and myself.

'You mean the--the--model? She is not here, Mr. Aylwin,' said he. 'The same young lady you
were seeking in Wales! Mysterious indeed are the ways of the spirit world!' and then his lips
moved silently as though in prayer.

'Where is she?' I asked again.

'I will tell you all about her soon--when we are alone,' he said in an undertone. 'Does the
picture satisfy you?'

The picture! He was thinking of his art. Amid all that gorgeous pageant in which mediæval angels;
were  mixed with classic youths and flower-crowned; maidens, in  such a medley of fantastic
beauty as could never have been imagined save by a painter; who was one-third artist, one-third
madman, and one-third seer--amid all the marvels of that strange, uncanny culmination of the
neo-Romantic movement in Art which had excited the admiration of one set of the London critics
and the scorn of others, I had really and fully seen but one face--the face of Isis, or Pelagia,
or Eve, or Natura Benigna, or whosoever she was looking at me with those dear eyes of Winnie's
which were my very life--looking at me with the same bewitching, indescribable expression that
they wore when she sat with her 'Prince of the Mist' on Snowdon. I tried to take in the ensemble.
In vain! Nothing but the face and figure of Winifred--crowned with seaweed as in the Raxton
photograph--could stay for the thousandth part of a second upon my eyes.

'Wilderspin,' I said, 'I cannot do the picture justice at this moment. I must see it again--after
I have seen her. Where is she? Can I not see her now?'

'You cannot.'

'Can I not see her to-day?'

'You cannot. I will tell you soon, and I have much to tell you,' said Wilderspin, looking uneasily
round at my mother, who did not seem inclined to leave us. 'I will tell you all about her when--when
you are sufficiently calm.'

'Tell me now,' I said.

'Gad! this is a strange affair, don't you know? It would puzzle Cyril Aylwin himself,' said
Sleaford. 'What the dooce does it all mean?'

'Is she safe?' I cried to Wilderspin.

There was a pause.

'Is she safe?' I cried again.

'Quite safe,' said Wilderspin, in a tone whose solemnity would have scared me had the speaker
been any other person than this eccentric creature. 'When you are less agitated, I will tell
you all about her.'

'No! now, now!'

IV

'Well, Mr. Aylwin,' said Wilderspin, 'when I first saw your father's book,  The  Veiled Queen,
it was the vignette on the title-page that attracted me. In the eyes of that beautiful child-face,
even as rendered by a small reproduction, there was the very expression that my soul had been
yearning after--the expression which no painter of woman's beauty had ever yet caught and rendered.
I felt that he who could design or suggest to a designer such a vignette must be inspired,
and I bought the book: it was as an artist, not as a thinker, that I bought the book for the
vignette.  When, on reading it, I came to understand the full meaning of the  design, such
sweet comfort and hope did the writer's words give me, that I knew at once who had impressed
me to read it--I knew that my mission in life was to give  artistic  development to the sublime
ideas of Philip Aylwin. I began the subject of "Faith and Love." But the more I tried to render
the expression that had fascinated me the more impossible did the task seem to me. Howsoever
imaginative may be any design, the painter who would produce a living picture must paint from
life, and then he has to fight against his model's expression. Do you remember my telling you
the other day how the spirit of Mary Wilderspin in heaven came upon me in my sore perplexity
and blessed me--sent me a spiritual body--led me out into the street, and--'

'Yes, yes, I remember; but what happened?'

'We will sit,' said Wilderspin.

He placed chairs for us, and I perceived that my mother did not intend to go.

'Well,'  he continued, 'on that sunny morning I was impressed to leave my studio and go out
into the streets. It was then that I found what I had been seeking,--the expression in the
beautiful child-face off the vignette.'

'In the street!' I heard my mother say to herself. 'How did it come about?' she asked aloud.

'It had long been my habit to roam about the streets of London whenever I could afford the
time to do so, in the hope of finding what I sought, the fascinating and indescribable expression
on that one lovely child-face. Sometimes I believed that I had found this expression. I have
followed women for miles, traced them home, introduced myself to them, told them of my longings;
and have then, after all, come away in bitter disappointment. The insults and revilings I have,
on these occasions, sometimes submitted to I will narrate to no man, for they would bring me
no respect in a cynical age like this--an age which Carlyle spits at and the great and good
John Ruskin chides. Sometimes my dear friend Mr. Cyril has accompanied me on these occasions,
and he has seen how I have been humiliated.'

An involuntary 'haw, haw!' came from Sleaford, but looking towards my mother and perceiving
that she was listening with intense eagerness, he said: 'Ten thousand pardons, but Cyril Aylwin's
droll stories,--don't you know? they will--hang it all--keep comin' up and makin' a fellow laugh.'

'Well,' continued Wilderspin, 'on that memorable morning I was impressed to walk down the street
towards Temple Bar. I was passing close to the wall to escape the glare of the sun, when I
was stopped suddenly by a sight which I knew could only have been sent to me in that hour of
perplexity by her who had said that Jesus would let her look down and watch her boy. Moreover,
at that moment the noise of the Strand seemed to cease in my ears, which were rilled with the
music I love best--the only music that I have patience to listen to--the tinkle of a black-smith's
anvil.'

'Blacksmith's anvil in the Strand?' said Sleaford.

'It was from heaven, my lord, that the music fell like rain; it was a sign from Mary Wilderspin
who lives there.'

'For God's sake be quick!' I exclaimed. 'Where was it?'

'At the corner of Essex Street. A bright-eyed, bright-haired girl in rags was standing bare-headed,
holding out boxes of matches for sale, and murmuring words of Scripture. This she was doing
quite mechanically, as it seemed, and unobservant of the crowd passing by,--individuals of
whom would stop for a moment to look at her; some with eyes of pure admiration and some with
other eyes. The squalid attire in which she was clothed seemed to add to her beauty.'

'My poor Winnie!' I murmured, entirely overcome.

'She seemed to take as little heed of the heat and glare as of the people, but stood there
looking before her, murmuring texts from Scripture as though she were communing with the spiritual
world. Her eyes shook and glittered in the sunshine; they seemed to emit lights from behind
the black lashes surrounding them; the ruddy lips were quivering. There was an innocence about
her brow, and yet a mystic wonder in her eyes which formed a mingling of the child-like with
the maidenly such as--'

'Man! man! would you kill me with your description?' I cried. Then grasping Wilderspin's hand,
I said, 'But,--but was she begging, Wilderspin? Not literally begging! My Winnie! my poor Winnie!'

My mother looked at me. The gaze was full of a painful interest; but she recognised that between
me and her there now was rolling an infinite sea or emotion, and her eyes drooped before mine
as though she had suddenly invaded the privacy of a stranger.

'She was offering matches for sale,' said Wilderspin.

'Winnie! Winnie! Winnie!' I murmured. 'Did she seem emaciated, Wilderspin? Did she seem as
though she wanted food?'

'Heaven, no!' exclaimed my mother.

'No,' replied Wilderspin firmly. 'On that point who is a better judge than the painter of "Faith
and Love"? She did not want food. The colour of the skin was not--was not--such as I have seen--when
a woman is dying for want of food.'

'God bless you, Wilderspin, God bless you! But what then?--what followed?'

'Well, Mr. Aylwin, I stood for some time gazing at her, muttering thanks to my mother for what
I had found. I then went up to her, and asked her for a box of matches. She held me out a box,
mechanically, as it seemed, and, when I had taken it of her, she held out her hand just as
though she had been a real earthly beggar-girl; but that was part of the beneficent illusion
of Heaven.'

'That was for the price, don't you know?' said Sleaford. 'What did you give her?'

'I gave her a shilling, my lord, which she looked at for some time in a state of bewilderment.
She then began to feel about her as if for something.'

'She was feelin' for the change, don't you know?' said Sleaford, not in the least degree perceiving
how these interruptions of a prosaic mind were maddening me.

'I told her that I wanted to speak to her,' continued Wilderspin, 'and asked her where she
lived. She gave me the same bewildered, other-world look with which she had regarded the shilling,
a look which seemed to say, "Go away now: leave me alone!" As I did not go, she began to appear
afraid of me, and moved away towards Temple Bar, and then crossed the street. I followed, as
far behind as I could without running the danger of losing sight of her, to a wretched place
running out of Great Queen Street. Holborn, which I afterwards found was called Primrose Court,
and when I got there she had disappeared in one of the squalid houses opening into the court.
I knocked at the first door once or twice before an answer came, and then a tiny girl with
the face of a woman opened it. "Is there a beggar-girl living here?" I asked. "No," answered
the child in a sharp, querulous voice. "You mean Meg Gudgeon's gal wot sings and does the rainy-night
dodge. She lives next house." And the child slammed the door in my face. I knocked at the next
door, and after waiting for a minute it was opened by a short, middle-aged woman, with black
eyes and a flattened nose, who stared at me, and then said, "A Quaker, by the looks o' ye."
She had the strident voice of a raven, and she smelt, I thought, of gin.'

'But, Mr. Wilderspin, Mr. Wilderspin, you said the girl was safe!'

It was my mother's voice, but so loud, sharp, and agonised was it that it did not seem to be
her voice at all. In that dreadful moment, however, I had no time to heed it. At the description
of the hideous den and the odious Mrs. Gudgeon, whose face as I had seen it in Cyril's studio
had haunted me in the crypt, a dreadful shudder passed through my frame; an indescribable sense
of nausea stirred within me; and for a moment I felt as though the pains of dissolution were
on me. And there was something in Wilderspin's face--what was it?--that added to my alarm.
'Stay for a moment,' I said to him; 'I cannot yet bear to hear any more.'

'I know the dread that has come upon you, and upon your kind, sympathetic mother,' said he;
'but she you are disturbed about was not a prisoner in the kind of place my words seem to describe.'

'But the woman?' said my mother. 'How could she be safe in such hands?'

'Has he not said she is safe?' I cried, in a voice that startled even my own ears, so loud
and angry it was, and yet I hardly knew why.

'You forget,' said Wilderspin, turning to my mother, 'that the whole spiritual world was watching
over her.'

'But was the place very--was it so very squalid?' said my mother. 'Pray describe it to us,
Mr. Wilderspin; I am really very anxious.'

'No!' I said; 'I want no description: I shall go and see for myself.'

'But; Henry, I am most anxious to know about this poor girl, and I want Mr. Wilderspin to tell
us how and where he found her.'

'The "poor girl" concerns me alone, mother. Our calamities--Winnie's and mine--are between
us two and God....You engaged her, Wilderspin, of the woman whom I saw at Cyril's studio, to
sit as a model? What passed when she came?'

'The woman brought her next day,' said Wilderspin, 'and I sketched in the face of Pelagia as
Isis at once. I had already taken out the face of the previous model that had dissatisfied
me. I now took out the figure too, for the figure of this new model was as perfect as her face.'

'Go on, go on. What occurred?'

'Nothing, save that she stood dumb, like one who had no language save that of another world.
But at the second sitting she had a fit of a most dreadful kind.'

'Ah! Tell me quickly,' I said. Her face became suddenly distorted by an expression of terror
such as I had never seen and never imagined possible. I have caught it exactly in my picture
"Christabel." She revived and tried to run out of the studio. Her mother and I seized her,
and she then fell down insensible.'

'What occasioned the fit? What had frightened her?'

'That is what I am not quite certain about. When she entered the studio she fixed her eyes
upon a portrait which I had been working upon; but that must have been merely a coincidence.'

'A portrait!' I cried. And Winifred's scared expression when she encountered my mother's look
of hate in the churchyard came back to me like a scene witnessed in a flash of lightning. The markets
are scantily supplied, and bread, except the little distributed by
order of the government, not to be obtained: yet the inhabitants,
for the most part, are not turbulent-- they have learned too late,
that revolutions are not the source of plenty, and, though they murmur
and execrate their rulers, they abstain from violence, and seem rather
inclined to yield to despair, than to seek revenge.

This is one proof, among a variety of others, that the despotism
under which the French have groaned for the last three years, has
much subdued the vivacity and impatience of the national character;
for I know of no period in their history, when such a combination
of personal suffering and political discontent, as exists at present,
would not have produced some serious convulsion.

Amiens, June 18, 1795.

We returned hither yesterday, and on Friday we are to proceed to Havre,
accompanied by an order from the Committee of Public Welfare, stating
that several English families, and ourselves among the number, have
been for some time a burthen on the generosity of the republic, and
that for this reason we are permitted to embark as soon as we can
find the means.

This is neither true, nor very gallant; but we are too happy in quitting
the republic, to cavil about terms, and would not exchange our pauper-like
passports for a consignment of all the national domains.

I have been busy to-day in collecting and disposing of my papers, and though I have taken infinite
pains to conceal them, their bulk is so considerable, that the conveyance
must be attended with risk.

While I was thus employed, the casual perusal of some passages in
my letters and notes has led me to consider how much my ideas of the
French character and manners differ from those to be found in the
generality of modern travels.

My opinions are not of importance enough to require a defence; and a consciousness of not having
deviated from truth makes me still more averse from an apology. Yet as I have in several instances
varied from authorities highly respectable, it may not be improper to endeavour to account
for what has almost the appearance of presumption.

If you examine most of the publications describing foreign countries, you will find them generally
written by authors travelling either with the eclat of birth and
riches, or, professionally, as men of science or letters.

They scarcely remain in any place longer than suffices to view the churches, and to deliver
their letters of recommendation; or, if their stay be protracted
at some capital town, it is only to be feted from one house to another,
among that class of people who are every where alike.

As soon as they appear in society, their reputation as authors sets
all the national and personal vanity in it afloat.

One is polite, for the honour of his country-- another is brilliant, to recommend himself; and
the traveller cannot ask a question, the answer to which is not intended for an honourable
insertion in his repertory of future fame.

In this manner an author is passed from the literati and fashionable people of one metropolis to those
of the next.

He goes post through small towns and villages, seldom mixes with
every-day life, and must in a great degree depend for information
on partial enquiries.

He sees, as it were, only the two extremes of human condition-- the splendour of the rich, and
the misery of the poor; but the manners of the intermediate classes, which are less obtrusive,
are not within the notice of a temporary resident. I can bear anything now. Howsoever terrible it
may be, I can bear it now; for she's found--she's safe.' And I rushed into the next room, and
began turning round in a wild manner one after another some dozens of canvases that were standing
on the floor and leaning against the wall.

Half the canvases had been turned, and then I came upon what I sought.

I stood petrified. But I heard Wilderspin's voice at my side say, 'Do not let an imaginary
scene distress you, Mr. Aylwin. The picture merely represents the scene in Coleridge's poem
where the Lady Christabel, having secretly and in pity brought to her room to share her bed
the mysterious lady she had met in the forest at midnight, watches the beautiful witch undress,
and is spell-bound and struck dumb by some "sight to dream of, not to tell," which she sees
at the lady's bosom.'

*      *      *      *      *

Christabel! It was Winifred sitting there upright in bed, confronted by a female figure--a
tall lady, who with bowed head was undressing herself beneath a lamp suspended from the ceiling.
Christabel! It was Winifred gazing at this figure--gazing as though fascinated; her dark hair
falling and tumbling down her neck, till it was at last partly lost between her shining bosom
and her nightdress. Yes, and in her blue eyes there was the same concentration of light, there
was the same uprolling of the lips, there was the same dreadful gleaming of the teeth, the
same swollen veins about the throat that I had seen in Wales. No wonder that at first I could
see only the face and figure of Winifred. My consciousness had again dwindled to a single point.
In a few seconds, however, I perceived that the scene was an antique oak-panelled chamber,
corniced with large and curiously-carven figures, upon which played the warm light from a silver
lamp suspended from the middle of the ceiling by a twofold silver chain fastened to the feet
of an angel, quaintly carved in the dark wood of the ceiling. It was beneath this lamp that
stood the majestic figure of the beautiful stranger, the Lady Geraldine. As she bent her head
to look at her bosom, which she was about fully to uncover, the lamp-light gleaming among the
gems and flashing in her hair and down her loosened white silken robe to her naked feet, shining,
blue-veined and half-hidden in the green rushes that covered the floor, she seemed to be herself
the source from which the lurid light was shed about the room. But her eyes were brighter than
all. They were more dreadful by far to look at than Winifred's own--they were rolling wildly
as if in an agony of hate, while she was drawing in her breath till that marble throat of hers
seemed choking. It was not upon her eyes, however, that Winifred's were fixed: it was upon
the lady's bosom, for out from beneath the partially-loosened robes that covered that bosom
a tiny fork of flame was flickering like a serpent's tongue ruddy from the fires of a cruel
and monstrous hate within.

This sight was dreadful enough; but it was not the terror on Winifred's face that now sent
me reeling against Sleaford, who with my mother had followed me into the smaller room. Whose
figure was that, and whose was the face which at first I had half-recognised in the Lady Geraldine?
My mother's!

In painting this subject Wilderspin had, without knowing it, worked with too strong a reminiscence
of my mother's portrait, unconscious that he was but giving expression to the awful irony of
Heaven.

I turned round. Wilderspin was supporting with difficulty my mother's dead weight. For the
first time (as I think) in her life, she whom, until I came to know Sinfi Lovell, I had believed
to be the strongest, proudest, bravest woman living, had fainted.

'Dear me!' said Wilderspin, 'I had no idea that Christabel's terror was so strongly rendered,--no
idea! Art should never produce an effect like this. Romantic art knows nothing of a mere sensational
illusion. Dear me!--I must soften it at once.'

He was evidently quite unconscious that he had given my mother's features to Geraldine, and
attributed the effect to his own superlative strength as a dramatic artist.

I ran to her: she soon recovered, but asked to be taken to Belgrave Square at once. Wild as
I was with the desire to go in quest of Winifred; goaded as I was by a new, nameless, shapeless
dread which certain words of Wilderspin's had aroused, but which (like the dread that had come
to me on the night of my father's funeral) was too appalling to confront, I was obliged to
leave the studio and take my mother to the house of my aunt, who was, I knew, waiting to start
for the yacht.

XI

THE IRONY OF HEAVEN

I

As we stepped into the carriage, Sleaford, full of sympathy, jumped in. This fortunately prevented
a conversation that would have been intolerable both to my mother and to me.

'Studio oppressively close,' said Sleaford; 'usual beastly smell of turpentine and pigments
and things. Why the dooce don't these fellows ventilate their studios before they get ladies
to go to see their paintin's!' This he kept repeating, but got no response from either of us.

As to me, let me honestly confess that I had but one thought: how much time would be required
to go to Belgrave Square and back to the studio, to learn the whereabouts of Winifred. 'But
she's safe,' I kept murmuring, in answer to that rising dread: 'Wilderspin said she was safe.'

During that drive to Belgrave Square, he whose bearing towards my mother was that of the anxious,
loving son was not I, the only living child of her womb, but poor, simple, empty-headed Sleaford.

When we reached Belgrave Square my mother declared that she had entirely recovered from the
fainting fit, but I scarcely dared to look into those haggard eyes of hers, which showed only
too plainly that the triumph of remorse in her bosom was now complete. My aunt, who seemed
to guess that something lowering to the family had taken place, was impatient to get on board
the yacht. I saw how my mother now longed to remain and learn the upshot of events; but I told
her that she was far better away now, and that I would write to her and keep her posted up
in the story day by day. I bade them a hurried 'Good-bye.'

'How shall I be able to stay out of England until I know all about her?' said my mother. 'Go
back and learn all about her, Henry, and write to me; and be sure to get and take care of that
dreadful picture, and write to me about that also.'

When the carriage left I walked rapidly along the Square, looking for a hansom. In a second
or two Sleaford was by my side. He took my arm.

'I suppose you're goin' back to cane him, aren't you?' said he.

'Cane whom?' I said impatiently, for that intolerable thought which I have hinted at was now
growing within my brain, and I must, must be alone to grapple with it.

'Cane the d----d painter, of course,' said Sleaford, opening his great blue eyes in wonder
that such a question should be asked. 'Awfully bad form that fellow goin' and puttin' your
mother in the picture. But that's just the way with these fellows.'

'What do you mean?' I asked again.

'What do I mean? The paintin' and writin' fellows. You can't make a silk purse out of a sow's
ear, as I've often and often said to Cyril Aylwin; and by Jove, I'm right for once. I suppose
I needn't ask you if you're going back to cane him.'

'Wilderspin did what he did quite unconsciously,' I replied, as I hailed a hansom. 'It was
the finger of God.'

'The finger of--Oh come! That be hanged, old chap.'

'Good-bye,' I said, as I jumped into the hansom.

'But you don't mean to say you are goin' to let a man put your mother into--'

I heard no more. The terrible idea which had been growing in my brain, shaping itself out of
a nebulous mass of reminiscences of what had just occurred at the studio, was now stinging
me to madness. Wilderspin's extreme dejection, the strange way in which he had seemed inclined
to evade answering my question as to the safety of Winifred, the look of pity on his face as
at last he answered 'quite safe'--what did all these indications portend? At every second the
thought grew and grew, till my brain seemed like a vapour of fire, and my eyeballs seemed to
scorch their sockets as I cried aloud: 'Have I found her at last to lose her?'

On reaching the studio door I rapped: before the servant had time to answer my summons, I rapped
again till the sounds echoed along the street. When my summons was answered, I rushed upstairs.
Wilderspin stood at the studio door, listening, apparently, to the sound of the blacksmith's
anvil coming in from the back of Maud Street through the open window. Though his sorrowful
face told all, I cried out, 'Wilderspin, she's safe? You said she was safe?'

'My friend,' said Wilderspin solemnly, 'the news I have to give you is news that I knew you
would rather receive when you could hear it alone.'

'You said she was safe!'

'Yes, safe indeed! She whom you, under some strange but no doubt beneficent hallucination,
believe to be the lady you lost in Wales, is safe indeed, for she is in the spirit-land with
her whose blessing lent her to me--she has returned to her who was once a female blacksmith
at Oldhill, and is now the brightest, sweetest, purest saint in Paradise.'

Dead! My soul had been waiting for the word--expecting it ever since I left the studio with
my mother--but now it sounded more dreadful than if it had come as a surprise.

'Tell me all,' I cried, 'at once--at once. She did not return, you say, on the day following
the catastrophe--when did she return?--when did you next see her?'

'I never saw her again alive,' answered Wilderspin mournfully; 'but you are so pale, Mr. Aylwin,
and your eyes are so wild, I had better defer telling you what little more there is to tell
until you have quite recovered from the shock.'

'No; now, now.'

Wilderspin looked with a deep sigh at the picture of 'Faith and Love,' fired by the lights
of sunset, where Winnie's face seemed alive.

'Well,' said he, 'as she did not come, I worked at my painting of "Ruth" all day; and on the
next morning, as I was starting for Primrose Court to seek her, Mrs. Gudgeon came kicking frantically
at the street-door. When it was opened, she came stamping upstairs, and as I advanced to meet
her, she shook her fists in my face, shouting out: "I could tear your eyes out, you vagabones."
"Why, what is the matter?" I asked in great surprise. "You've bin and killed her, that's all,"
said the woman, foaming at the mouth. She then told me that her daughter, almost immediately
on reaching home after having left the studio in the company of my servant, had fallen down
in a swoon. A succession of swoons followed. She never rallied. She was then lying dead in
Primrose Court.'

'And what then? Answer me quickly.'

'She asked me to give her money that her daughter might be buried respectably and not by the
parish. I told her it was all hallucination about the girl being her daughter, and that a spiritual
body could not be buried, but she seemed so genuinely distressed that I gave her the money.'

'Spiritual body! Hallucination!' I said. 'I heard her voice in the London streets, and she
was seen selling baskets at the theatre door. Where shall I find the house?'

'It is of no use for you to go there,' he said.

'Nothing shall prevent my going at once.' A feverish yearning had come upon me to see the body.

'If you will go,' said Wilderspin, 'it is No. 2 Primrose Court, Great Queen Street, Holborn.

II

I hurried out of the house, and soon finding a cab I drove to Great Queen Street.

My soul had passed now into another torture-chamber. It was being torn between two warring,
maddening forces--the passionate desire to see her body, and the shrinking dread of undergoing
the ordeal. At one moment I felt--as palpably as I felt it, on the betrothal night--her slim
figure, soft as a twine of flowers in my arms: at the next I was clasping a corpse--a rigid
corpse in rags. And yet I can scarcely say that I had any thoughts. At Great Queen Street I
dismissed the cab, and had some little difficulty in finding Primrose Court, a miserable narrow
alley. I knocked at a door which, even in that light, I could see was a peculiarly wretched
one. After a considerable delay the door was opened and a face peered out--the face of the
woman whom I had seen in Cyril's studio. She did not at first seem to recognise me. She was
evidently far gone in liquor, and looked at me, murmuring, 'You're one o' the cussed body-snatchers;
I know you: you belong to the Rose Alley "Forty Thieves." You'll swing--every man Jack o' ye'll
swing yet, mind if you don't.'

At the sight of the squalid house in which Winifred had lived and died I passed into a new
world of horror. Dead matter had become conscious, and for a second or two it was not the human
being before me, but the rusty iron, the broken furniture, the great patches of brick and dirty
mortar where the plaster had fallen from the walls,--it was these which seemed to have life--a
terrible life--and to be talking to me, telling me what I dared not listen to about the triumph
of evil over good. I knew that the woman was still speaking, but for a time I heard no sound--my
senses could receive no impressions save from the sinister eloquence of the dead and yet living
matter around me. Not an object there that did not seem charged with the wicked message of
the heartless Fates.

At length, and as I stood upon the doorstep, a trembling, a mighty expectance, seized me like
an ague-fit; and I heard myself saying, 'I am come to see the body, Mrs. Gudgeon.' Then I saw
her peer, blinking, into my face, as she said,

'Oh, oh, it's you, is it? It's one o' the lot as keeps the studeros, is it?--the cussed Chelsea
lot as killed her. I recklet yer a-starin' at the goddess Joker! So you've come to see my poor
darter's body, are you? How werry kind, to be sure! Pray come in, gentleman, an' pray let the
beautiful goddess Joker be perlite an' show sich a nice kind wisiter the way upstairs.'

She took a candle, and with a mincing, mocking movement, curtseying low at every step, she
backed before me, and then stood waiting at the foot of the staircase with a drunken look of
satire on her features.

'Pray go upstairs fust, gentleman,' said she; 'I can't think o' goin' up fust, an' lettin'
my darter's kind wisiter foller behind like a sarvint. I 'opes we knows our manners better
nor that comes to in Primrose Court.'

'None of this foolery now, woman,' said I. 'There's a time for everything, you know.'

'How right he is!' she exclaimed, nodding to the flickering candle in her hand. 'There's a
time for everything an' this is the time for makin' a peep-show of my pore darter's body. Oh, yes!'

I mounted a shaky staircase, the steps of which were, some of them, so broken away that the
ascent was no easy matter. The miserable light from the woman's candle, as I entered the room,
seemed suddenly to shoot up in a column of dazzling brilliance that caused me to close my eyes
in pain, so unnaturally sensitive had they been rendered by the terrible expectance of the
sight that was about to sear them.

When I re-opened my eyes, I perceived that in the room there was one window, which looked like
a trap-door; on the red pantiles of the opposite roof lay a smoke-dimmed sheet of moonlight.
On the floor at the further end of the garret, where the roof met the boards at a sharp angle,
a mattress was spread. Then speech came to me.

'Not there!' I groaned, pointing to the hideous black-looking bed, and turning my head away
in terror. The woman burst into a cackling laugh.

'Not there? Who said she was there? I didn't. If you can see anythink there besides a bed an'
a quilt, you've got eyes as can make picturs out o' nothink, same as my darter's eyes could
make 'em, pore dear.'

'Ah, what do you mean?' I cried, leaping to the side of the mattress, upon which I now saw
that no dead form was lying.

For a moment a flash of joy as dazzling as a fork of lightning seemed to strike through my
soul and turn my blood into a liquid fire that rose and blinded my eyes.

'Not dead,' I cried; 'no, no, no! The pitiful heavens would have rained blood and tears at
such a monstrous tragedy. She is not dead--not dead after all! The hideous dream is passing.'

'Oh, ain't she dead, pore dear?--ain't she? She's dead enough for one,' said the woman; 'but
'ow can she be there on that mattress, when she's buried, an' the prayers read over her, like
the darter of the most 'spectable mother as ever lived in Primrose Court! That's what the neighbours
say o' me. The most 'spectable mother as ever--'

'Buried!' I said, 'who buried her?'

'Who buried her? Why the parish, in course.'

Despair then again seemed to send a torrent of ice-water through my veins. But after a time
the passionate desire to see her body leapt up within my heart.

At this moment Wilderspin, who had evidently followed me with remarkable expedition, came upstairs
and stood by my side.

'I must go and see the grave,' I said to him. 'I must see her face once more. I must petition
the Home Secretary. Nothing can and nothing shall prevent my seeing her--no, not if I have
to dig down to her with my nails.'

'An' who the dickens are you as takes on so about my darter?' said the woman, holding the candle
to my face.

'Drunken brute!' said I. 'Where is she buried?'

'Well, I'm sure!' said the woman in a mincing, sarcastic voice. 'How werry unperlite you is
all at wonst! how werry rude you speaks to such a werry 'spectable party as I am! You seem
to forgit who I am. Ain't I the goddess as likes to 'ave 'er little joke, an' likes to wet
both eyes, and as plays sich larks with her flummeringeroes and drumming-dairies an' ring-tailed
monkeys an' men?'

When I saw the creature whip up the quilt from the mattress, and, holding it over her head
like a veil, leer hideously in imitation of Cyril's caricature, a shudder went again through
my frame--a strange kind of dementia came upon me; my soul again seemed to leave my body--seemed
to be lifted through the air and beyond the stars, crying, in agony, 'Shall there be evil in
a city, and the Lord hath not done it?' Yet all the while, though my soul seemed fleeing through
infinite space, where a pitiless universe was waltzing madly round a ball of cruel fire--all
the while I was acutely conscious of looking down upon the dreadful dream-world below, looking
down into a frightful garret where a dialogue between two dream-figures was going on--a dialogue
between Wilderspin and the woman, each word of which struck upon my ears like a sharp-edged
flint, though it seemed millions of miles away.

*      *      *      *      *

'What made you trick me like this? Where is the money I gave you for the funeral?'

'That's werry true, about that money, an' where is it? The orkerdest question about money allus
is--"Where is it?" The money for that funeral I 'ad, I won't deny that. The orkard question
ain't that: it's "Where is it?" But you see, arter I left your studero I sets on that pore
gal's bed a-cryin' fit to bust; then I goes out into Clement's Alley, and I calls on Mrs. Mix--that's
a werry dear friend of mine, the mother o' seven child'n as are allus a-settin' on my doorstep,
an' she comes out of Yorkshire you must know, an' she's bin a streaker in her day (for she
was well off wonst was Mrs. Mix afore she 'ad them seven dirty-nosed child'n as sets on her
neighbours' doorsteps)--an' she sez, sez she, "My pore Meg" (meanin' me), "I've bin the mother
o' fourteen beautiful clean-nosed child'n, an' I've streaked an' buried seven on 'em, so I
ought to know somethink about corpuses, an' I tell you this corpse o' your darter's must be
streaked an' buried at wonst, for she died in a swownd. An' there's nothink like the parishes
for buryin' folk quick, an' I dessay the coffin's ordered by this time, an' I dessay the gent
gev you that money just to make you comforble like, seein' as he killed your darter." That's
what Mrs. Mix says to me. So the parish comed an' brought a coffin an' tookt her, pore dear.
And I've cried myself stupid-like, bein' her pore mother as 'es lost her on'y darter--an' I
was just a-tryin' to make myself comfable when this 'ere young toff as seems so werry drunk
comes a-rappin' at my door fit to rap the 'ouse down.'

'Has she been buried at all? How can a spiritual body be buried?'

'"Buried at all?" What do you mean by insinivatin' to the pore gal's conflicted mother as she
p'raps ain't buried at all? You're a-makin' me cry ag'in. She lays comfable enough underneath
a lot of other coffins, in the pauper part of the New North Cimingtary.'

'Underneath a lot of others; how can that be?'

'What! ain't you toffs never seed a pauper finneral? Now that's a pity; and sich nice toffs
as they are, a-settin' theirselves up to look arter the darters o' pore folks. P'raps you never
thought how we was buried.

When I came to myself I said to the woman,

'You can point out the grave?'

'Well, yes,' paid slip, turning round sharply; 'but may I ax who the dickens you are?--an'
what makes you so cut up about a pore woman's darter? It's right-on beautiful to see how kind
gentlemen is nowadays': and she turned and tried, stumbling, to lead the way downstairs.

As we left the room  I turned round to look at it. The picture of the mattress, now nearly
hidden in the shadows--the picture of the other furniture in the room--two chairs--or rather
one and a part of a chair, for the rails of the hack were gone--a table, a large brown jug,
the handle of which had been replaced by a piece of string, and a white washhand-basin, with
most of the rim broken away, and a shallow tub apparently used for a bath--seemed to sink into
my flesh as though bitten in by the etcher's aquafortis. Winifred's sleeping-room!

'Of course she wasn't her daughter,' said Wilderspin meditatively, as we stood on the stairs.

'Not my darter! Why, in course she was. What an imperent thing to say, surelie!'

'There is one thing I wish to say to you,' said he to the woman. 'When I agreed with you as
to the sum to be paid for the model's sittings, it was clearly understood that she was to sit
to no other artist, and that the match-selling was to cease.

'Well, and 'ave I broke my word?'

'A person has heard her singing and seen her selling baskets,' I said.

'The person tells a lie,' said the woman, with a dogged and sullen look, and in a voice that
grew thicker with every word. 'Ain't there sich things as doubles?'

At these last words my heart gave a sudden leap. We left the house, and neither of us spoke
till we got into the Strand.

'Did you see the--body at all?' I asked Wilderspin.

'Oh, yes. After I gave her the money for the funeral I went to Primrose Court. The woman took
me upstairs, and there on the mattress lay--what the poor woman believed to be the earthly
body of an earthly daughter. It was covered with a quilt. Over the face a ragged shawl had
been thrown.'

'Yes, yes. She raised the shawl?'

'Yes, the woman went and held the candle over the head of the mattress and uncovered the face;
and there lay she whom the woman believed to be her daughter, and whom you believe to be the
young lady you seek, but whom I know to be a spiritual body--the perfect type that was sent
to me in order that I might fulfil my mission. You groan, Mr. Aylwin, but remember that you
have lost only a dream, a beautiful hallucination; I have lost a reality: there is nothing
real but the spiritual world.

III

As I wandered about the streets after parting from Wilderspin, what were my emotions? If I
could put them into words, is there one human being in ten thousand who would understand me?
Happily, no. For there is not one in ten thousand who, having sounded the darkest depths of
human misery, will know how strong is Hope when at the true death-struggle with Despair. 'Hope
in the human breast,' wrote my father, 'is a passion, a wild, a lawless, and an indomitable
passion, that almost no cruelty of Fate can conquer.'

Many a passer-by in the streets of London that night must have asked himself, What lunatic
is this at large? At one moment I would bound along the pavement as though propelled by wings,
scarcely seeming to touch the pavement with my feet. At the next I would stop in a cold perspiration
and say to myself, 'Idiot, is it possible that you, so learned in suffering--you, whom Destiny,
or Heaven, or Hell, has taken in hand as a special sport--can befool yourself with Hope now,
after the terrible comedy by which you and the ancestral idiots from whom you sprang amused
Queen Nin-ki-gal in Raxton crypt?'

Hope and Despair were playing at shuttlecock with my soul. Underneath my misery there flickered
a thought which, wild as it was, I dared not dismiss--the thought that, after all, it might
not be Winifred who had died in that den. Possible it was--however improbable--that I might
be labouring under a delusion. My imagination might have exaggerated a resemblance into actual
identity, and Winifred and she whom Wilderspin painted might be two different persons--and
there might be hope even yet. But so momentous was the issue to my soul, that the mere fact
of having clearly marshalled the arguments on the side of Hope made my reason critical and
suspicious of their cogency. From the sweet sophisms that my reason had called up, I turned,
and there stood Despair, ready for me behind a phalanx of arguments, which laughed all Hope's
'ragged regiment' to scorn.

Had not my mother recognised her? Could the infallible perceptive faculties of my mother be
also deceived?

But to accept the fact that she who died on that mattress was little Winnie of the sands was
to go stark mad, and the very instinct of self-preservation made me clutch at every sophism
Hope could offer.

'Did not the woman declare that the singing-girl and the model were not one and the same?'
said Hope. 'And if she did not lie, may you not have been, after all, hunting a shadow through
London?'

'It might not have been Winifred,' I shouted.

But no sooner had I done so than the scene in the studio--Wilderspin's story of the model's
terror on seeing my mother's portrait--came upon me, and 'Dead! dead!' rang through me like
a funeral knell: all the superstructure of Hope's sophisms was shattered in a moment like a
house of cards: my imagination flew away to all the London graveyards I had ever heard of;
and there, in the part divided by the pauper line, my soul hovered over a grave newly made,
and then dived down from coffin to coffin, one piled above another, till it reached Winifred,
lying pressed down by the superincumbent mass; those eyes staring.

Yes; that night I was mad!

I could not walk fatigue into my restless limbs. Morning broke in curdling billows of fire
over the east of London--which even at this early hour was slowly growing hazy with smoke.
I found myself in Primrose Court, looking at that squalid door, those squalid windows. I knocked
at the door. No answer came to my summons, and I knocked again and again. Then a window opened
above my head, and I heard the well-known voice of the woman exclaiming,

'Who's that? Poll Onion's out to-night, and the rooms are emp'y 'cept mine. Why, God bless
me, man, is it you?'

'Hag! that was not your daughter.'

She slammed the window down.

'Let me in, or I will break the door.'

The window was opened again.

'Lucky as I didn't leave the front door open to-night, as I mostly do. What do you want to
skear a pore woman for?' she bawled. 'Go away, else I'll call up the people in Great Queen Street.'

'Mrs. Gudgeon, all I want to do is to ask you a question.'

'Ah, but that's what you jis' won't do, my fine gentleman. I don't let you in again in a hurry.'

'I will give you a sovereign.'

'Honour bright?' bawled the old woman; 'let me look at it.'

'Here it is, in my hand.'

'Jink it on the stuns.'

I threw it down.

'Quid seems to jink all right, anyhow,' she said, 'though I'm more used to the jink of a tanner
than a quid in these cussed times. You won't skear me if I come down?'

'No, no.'

At last I heard her fumbling inside at the lock, and then the door opened.

'Why, man alive! your eyes are afire jist like a cat's wi' drownded kitlins.'

'She was not your daughter.'

'Not my darter?' said she, as she stooped to pick up the sovereign. 'You ain't a-goin' to catch
me the likes o' that. The Beauty not my darter! All the court knows she was my own on'y darter.
I'll swear afore all the beaks in London as I'm the mother of my own on'y darter Winifred,
allus' wur 'er mother, and allus wull be; an' if she went a-beggin' it worn't my fort. She
liked beggin', poor dear; some gals does.'

'Her name Winifred!' I cried, with a pang at my heart as sharp as though there had been a reasonable
hope till now.

'In course her name was Winifred.'

'Liar! How came she to be called Winifred?'

'Well, I'm sure! Mayn't a Welshman's wife give her own on'y Welsh darter a Welsh name? Us poor
folks is come to somethink! P'raps you'll say I ain't a Welshman's wife next? It's your own
cussed lot as killed her, ain't it? What did I tell the shiny Quaker when fust I tookt her
to the studero? I sez to the shiny un, "She's jist a bit touched here," I sez' (tapping her
own head), '"and nothink upsets her so much as to be arsted a lot o' questions," I sez to the
shiny un. "The less you talks to her," I sez, "the better you'll get on with her," I sez, "and
the better kind o' pictur you'll make out on her," I sez to the shiny un; "an' don't you go
an' arst who her father is," I sez, "for that word 'ull bring such a horful look on her face,"
I sez, "as is enough to skear anybody to death. I sha'n't forget the look the fust time I seed
it," I sez. That's what I sez to the shiny Quaker. An' yit you did go an' worrit 'er, a-arstin'
'er a lot o' questions about 'er father. You did--I know you did! You must 'a done it--so no
lies; for that wur the on'y thing as ever skeared 'er, arstin' 'er about 'er father, pore dear....Why,
man alive! what are you a-gurnin' at? an' what are you a-smackin' your forred wi' your 'and
like that for, an' a-gurnin' in my face like a Chessy cat? Blow'd if I don't b'lieve you're
drunk. An' who the dickens are you a-callin' a fool, Mr. Imperance?'

It was not the woman but myself I was cursing when I cried out, 'Fool! besotted fool!'

Not till now had the wild hope fled which had led me back to the den. As I stood shuddering
on the doorstep in the cold morning light, while the whole unbearable truth broke in upon me,
I could hear my lips murmuring,

'Fool of ancestral superstitions! Fenella Stanley's fool! Philip Aylwin's fool! Where was the
besotted fool and plaything of besotted ancestors, when the truth was burning so close beneath
his eyes that it is wonderful they were not scorched into recognising it? Where was he when,
but for superstitions grosser than those of the negroes on the Niger banks, he might have saved
the living heart and centre of his little world? Where was the rationalist when, but for superstitions
sucked in with his mother's milk, he would have gone to a certain studio, seen a certain picture
which would have sent him on the wings of the wind to find and rescue and watch over the one
for whom he had renounced all the ties of kindred? Where was then the most worthy descendant
of a line of ancestral idiots--Romany and Gorgio--stretching back to the days when man's compeers,
the mammoth and the cave-bear, could have taught him better? Rushing down to Raxton church
to save her!--to save her by laying a poor little trinket upon a dead man's breast!'

After the paroxysm of self-scorn had partly exhausted itself, I stood staring in the woman's face.

'Well,' said she, 'I thought the shiny Quaker was a rum un, but blow me if you ain't a rummyer.

'Her name was Winifred, and the word "father" produced fits,' I said, not to the woman, but
to my soul, in mocking answer to its own woe. 'What about my father's spiritualism now? Good
God! Is there no other ancestral tomfoolery, no other of Superstition's patent Aylwinian soul-salves
for the philosophical Nature-worshipper and apostle of rationalism to fly to? Her name was
Winifred.

'Yis; don't I say 'er name wur Winifred?' said the woman, who thought I was addressing her.
'You're jist like a poll-parrit with your "Winifred, Winifred, Winifred." That was 'er name,
an' she 'ad a shock, pore dear, an' it was all along of you at the studero a-talkin' about
'er father. You must a-talked about 'er father: so no lies. She 'ad fits arter that, in course
she 'ad. Why, you'll make me die a-larfin' with your poll-parritin' ways, sayin' "a shock,
a shock, a shock," arter me. In course she 'ad a shock; she 'ad it when she was a little gal
o' six. My pore Bill (that's my 'usband as now lives in the fine 'Straley) was a'most killed
a-fightin' a Irishman. They brought 'im 'um an' laid 'im afore her werry eyes, an' the sight
throw'd 'er into high-strikes, an' arter that the name of "father" allus throwed her into high-strikes,
an' that's why I told 'em at the studero never to say that word. An' I know you must 'a' said
it, some o' your cussed lot must, or else why should my pore darter 'a' 'ad the high-strikes?
Nothin' else never gev 'er no high-strikes only talkin' to 'er about 'er father. An' as to
me a-sendin' 'er a-beggin', I tell you she liked beggin'. I gev her baskets to sell, an' flowers
to sell, an' yet she would beg. I tell you she liked beggin'. Some gals does. She was touched
in the 'ead, an' she used to say she must beg, an' there was nothink she used to like so much
as to stan' with a box o' matches a-jabberin' a tex' out o' the Bible unless it was singin'.
There you are, a-larfin' and a-gurnin' ag'in. If I wur on'y 'arf as drunk as you are the coppers
'ud 'a' run me in hours ago; cuss 'em, an' their favouritin' ways.'

At the truth flashing in upon me through these fantastic lies, I had passed into that mood
when the grotesque wickedness of Fate's awards can draw from the victim no loud lamentations--when
there are no frantic blows aimed at the sufferer's own poor eyeballs till the beard--like the
self-mutilated Theban king's--is bedewed with a dark hail-shower of blood. More terrible because
more inhuman than the agony imagined by the great tragic poet is that most awful condition
of the soul into which I had passed--when the cruelty that seems to work at Nature's heart,
and to vitalise a dark universe of pain, loses its mysterious aspect and becomes a mockery;
when the whole vast and merciless scheme seems too monstrous to be confronted save by mad peals
of derisive laughter--that dreadful laughter which bubbles lower than the fount of tears--that
laughter which is the heart's last language; when no words can give it the relief of utterance--no
words, nor wails, nor moans.

'Another quid,' bawled the woman after me, as I turned away, 'another quid, an' then I'll tell
you somethink to your awantage. Out with it, and don't spile a good mind.'

What I did and said that morning as I wandered through the streets of London in that state
of tearless despair and mad unnatural merriment, one hour of which will age a man more than
a decade of any woe that can find a voice in lamentations, remains a blank in my memory.

I found myself at the corner of Essex Street, staring across the Strand, which, even yet, had
scarcely awoke into life. Presently I felt my sleeve pulled, and heard the woman's voice.

'You didn't know as I was cluss behind you all the while, a-watchin' your tantrums. Never spile
a good mind, my young swell. Out with t'other quid, an' then I'll tell you somethink about
my pootty darter as is on my mind.'

I gave her money, but got nothing from her save more incoherent lies and self-contradictions
about the time of the funeral.

'Point out the spot where she used to stand and beg. No, don't stand on it yourself, but point
it out.'

'This is the werry spot. She used to hold out her matches like this 'ere,--my darter used,--an'
say texes out o' the Bible. She loved beggin', pore dear!'

'Texts from the Bible?' I said, staggering under a new thought that seemed to strike through
me like a bar of hot metal. 'Can you remember any one of them?'

'It was allus the same tex', an' I ought to remember it well enough, for I've 'eerd it times
enough. She wur like you for poll-parritin' ways, and used to say the same thing over an' over
ag'in. It wur allus, "Let his children be wagabones and beg their bread; let them seek it also
out of desolate places." Why, you're at it ag'in--gurnin' ag'in. You must be drunk.'

Again there came upon me the involuntary laughter of heart-agony at its tensest. I cried aloud:
'Faith and Love! Faith and Love! That farce of the Raxton crypt with the great-grandmother's
fool on his knees shall be repeated for the delight of Nin-ki-gal and the Danish skeletons
and the ancestral ghosts from Hugh the Crusader down to the hero of the knee-caps and mittens;
and there shall be a dance of death and a song, and the burden shall be--

       As flies to wanton boys are we to the gods:
       They kill us for their sport.'

Misery had made me a maniac at last; my brain swam, and the head of the woman seemed to be
growing before me--seemed once more to be transfigured before me into a monstrous mountainous
representation of an awful mockery-goddess and columbine-queen, down whose merry wrinkles were
flowing tears that were at once tears of Olympian laughter and tears of the oceanic misery of Man.

'Well, you are a rum un, and no mistake,' said the woman. 'But who the dickens are you? That's
what licks me. Who the dickens are you? Howsomever, if you'll fork out another quid, the Queen
of the Jokes'll tell you some'ink to your awantage, an' if you won't fork out the Queen o'
the Jokes is mum.'

I stood and looked at her--looked till the street seemed to heave under my feet and the houses
to rock. After this I seem to have wandered back to Wilderspin's studio, and there to have
sunk down unconscious.

XII

THE REVOLVING CAGE OF CIRCUMSTANCE

I

I will not trouble the reader with details of the illness that came upon me as the result of
my mental agony and physical exhaustion. At intervals I was aware of what was going on around
me, but for the most part I was in a semi-comatose state. I realised at intervals that a medical
man was sitting by my side, as I lay in bed. Then I had a sense of being moved from place to
place; and then of being rocked by the waves. Slowly the periods of consciousness became more
frequent and also more prolonged.

My first exclamation was--'Dead! Have I been ill?' and I tried to raise myself in vain.

'Yes, very ill,' said a voice, my mother's.

'Dangerously?'

'For several days you were in danger. Your recovery now entirely depends upon your keeping
yourself calm.'

'I am out at sea?'

'Yes,' said my mother; 'in Lord Sleaford's yacht.'

'How did I come here?'

'Well, Henry, I was so anxious to wait for a day or two to learn the sequel of the dreadful
tragedy, that I persuaded Lord Sleaford to delay sailing. Next day he called at Belgrave Square,
and told us he had heard that you had been taken suddenly ill and were lying unconscious at
the studio. I went at once and saw the medical man, Mr. Finch, whom Mr. Wilderspin had called
in. This gentleman took a serious view of your case. When I asked him what could be done he
said that nothing would benefit you so much as removal from London, and recommended a sea voyage.
It occurred to me at once to ask Lord Sleaford if we might take you in his yacht, and he with
his usual good-nature agreed, and agreed also that Mr. Finch should accompany us as your medical
attendant.'

'You know all?' I said; 'you know that she is dead.'

'Alas! yes.'

At that moment the doctor came into the cabin, and my mother retired.

'When did you last see Wilderspin?' I asked Mr. Finch.

'Before leaving England to join a friend in Paris he went to Belgrave Square to get tidings
of you, and I was there.'

'He told you--what had occurred to make me ill?'

'He told me that it was the death of some one in whom you took an interest, a model of his,
but told it in such a wild and excited way that I lost patience with him. His addled brains
are crammed with the wildest and most ignorant superstitions.'

'Did you ask him about her burial?'

'I did. I gathered from him that she was buried by the parish in the usual way. But I assure
you the man's account of everything that occurred was so bewildered and so incoherent that
I could really make nothing out of him. What is his creed? Is it Swedenborgianism? He seems
to think that the model he has lost is a spirit (or spiritual body, to use his own jargon)
sent to him by the artistic-minded spirits for entirely artistic purposes, but snatched from
him now by the mean jealousy of the same spirit-world.' 'But what did he say about her burial?'
'Well, he seems not to have ignored so completely the mundane question of burying this spiritual
body as his creed would have warranted, for he gave the mother money to bury it. The mother,
however, seems to have spent the money in gin and to have left the duty of burying the spiritual
body to the parish, who make short work of all bodies; and, of course, by the parish she was
buried, you may rest assured of that, though the artist seems to think that she was simply
translated to heaven like Elijah.'

'I must return to England at once,' I said. 'I shall apply to the Home Secretary to have the
body disinterred.'

'Why, sir?'

'In order that she may be buried in a proper place, to be sure.'

'No use. You have no locus standi.'

'What do you mean?'

'You are not a relative, and to ask for a disinterment for such an unimportant reason as that
you, a stranger, would prefer to see her buried elsewhere, would be idle.'

Sleaford now came into the cabin. I thanked him for his kindness, but told him I must return
at once.

'Even if your health permitted,' he said, 'it is impossible for the yacht to go back. I have
an appointment to meet a yachting friend. But in any case depend upon it, old fellow, the doctor
won't hear of your returning for a long while yet. He told me not five minutes ago that nothing
but sea air, and keeping your mind tranquil, you know, will restore you.'

The feeling of exhaustion that came upon me as he spoke convinced me that there was only too
much truth in his words. I felt that I must yield to the inevitable; but as to tranquillity
of mind, my entire being was now filled with a yearning to see the New North Cemetery--to see
her grave. I seemed to long for the very pang which I knew the sight of the grave would give me.

It is of course impossible for me to linger over that cruise, or to record any of the incidents
that took place at the ports at which we touched and landed. My recovery, or rather my partial
recovery, was slower than the doctor had anticipated. Weeks and months passed, and still there
seemed but little improvement in me.

The result was that I was obliged to yield to the importunities of my mother, and to the urgent
advice of Dr. Finch, to remain on board Sleaford's yacht during the entire cruise, and afterwards
to go with them to Italy.

Absence from England gave me not the smallest respite from the grief that was destroying me.

My parting with my mother was a very pathetic one. She was greatly changed, and I knew why.
The furrows Time sets on the face can never be mistaken for those which are caused by the passions.
The struggle between pride and remorse had been going on apace; her sufferings had been as
great as my own.

It was in Rome we parted. We were sitting in the cool, perfumed atmosphere of St. Peter's,
and for the moment a soothing wave seemed to pass over my soul. For some little time there
had been silence between us. At length I said, 'Mother, it seems strange indeed for me to have
to say to you that you blame yourself too much for the part you took in the tragedy of Winnie.
When you sent her into Wales you didn't know that her aunt was dead; you did it, as you thought,
for her good as well as for mine.'

She rose as if to embrace me, and then sank down again.

'But you don't know all, Henry; you don't know all. I knew her aunt was dead, though Shales
did not, or he would never have taken her. All that concerned me was to get her away before
your own recovery. I thought there might be relatives of hers or friends whom Shales might
find. But I was possessed by a frenzied desire to get her away. For years my eyes had been
fixed on the earldom. I had been told by your aunt that Cyril was consumptive, and also that
he was very unlikely to marry.'

I could not suppress a little laugh. 'Ha, ha! Cyril consumptive! No man's stronger and sounder,
I am glad to tell you; but if by ill-chance he should die and the title should come to me,
then, mother, I'll wear the coronet, and it shall be made of the best gingerbread gilt and
ornamented thus. I'll give public lectures on the British aristocracy and its origin, and its
present relations to the community, and my audience shall consist of society--that society
which is so much to aunt and the likes of her. Society shall be my audience, and then, after
my course of lectures is over, I will join the Gypsies. But pray pardon me, mother. I had no
idea I should thus lose my temper. I should not have lost it so entirely had I not witnessed
how you are suffering from the tyranny of this blatant bugbear called "Society."'

'My suffering, Henry, has brought me nearer to your line of thought than you may suppose. It
has taught me that when the affections are deeply touched everything which before had seemed
so momentous stands out in a new light, that light in which the insignificance of the important
stands revealed. In that terrible conflict between you and me on the night following the landslip,
you spoke of my "cruel pride." Oh, Henry, if you only knew how that cruel pride had been wiped
out of existence by remorse, I believe that even you would forgive me. I believe that even
she would if she were here.'

'I told you that I had entirely forgiven you, mother, and that I was sure Winnie would forgive
you if she were alive.'

'You did, Henry, but it did not satisfy me; I felt that you did not know all.'

'I fear you have been very unhappy,' I said.

'I have been constantly thinking of Winifred a beggar in the streets as described by Wilderspin.
Oh, Henry, I used to think of her in the charge of that woman. And Miss Dalrymple, who educated
her, tells me that in culture she was far above the girls of her own class; and this makes
the degradation into which she was forced through me the more dreadful for me to think of.
I used to think of her dying in the squalid den, and then the Italian sunshine has seemed darker
than a London fog. Even the comfort that your kind words gave me was incomplete, for you did
not know the worst features of my cruelty.'

'But have you had no respite, mother? Surely the intensity of this pain did not last, or it
would have killed you.'

'The crisis did pass, for, as you say, had it lasted in its most intense form, it would have
killed me or sent me mad. After a while, though remorse was always with me, I seemed to become
in some degree numbed against its sting. I could bear at last to live, but that was all. Yet
there was always one hour out of the twenty-four when I was overmastered by pathetic memories,
such as nearly killed me with pity--one hour when, in a sudden and irresistible storm, grief
would still come upon me with almost its old power. This was on awaking in the early morning.
I learnt then that if there is trouble at the founts of life, there is nothing which stirs
that trouble like the twitter of the birds at dawn. Paris now offers an interval of tranquillity
which we mean to avail ourselves of, and shall, in a day or two, leave this place with the hope
of procuring passports for England. The Convention affect great moderation and gratitude for their
late rescue; and the people, persuaded in general that the victorious party are royalists, wait
with impatience some important change, and expect, if not an immediate restoration of the monarchy,
at least a free election of new Representatives, which must infallibly lead to it. With this hope,
which is the first that has long presented itself to this harassed
country, I shall probably bid it adieu; but a visit to the metropolis
will be too interesting for me to conclude these papers, without giving
you the result of my observations.-- Yours.& c. Paris, June 3, 1795.

We arrived here early on Saturday, and as no stranger coming to Paris,
whether a native of France, or a foreigner, is suffered to remain
longer than three days without a particular permission, our first
care was to present ourselves to the Committee of the section where
we lodge, and, on giving proper security for our good conduct, we
have had this permission extended to a Decade.

I approached Paris with a mixture of curiosity and apprehension,
as though I expected the scenes which had passed in it, and the moral
changes it had undergone, would be every where visible; but the gloomy
ideas produced by a visit to this metropolis, are rather the effect
of mental association than external objects.

Palaces and public buildings still remain; but we recollect that
they are become the prisons of misfortune, or the rewards of baseness.

We see the same hotels, but their owners are wandering over the world, or have expired on the scaffold.
Public places are not less numerous, nor less frequented; but, far from
inspiring gaiety, we behold them with regret and disgust, as proofs
of the national levity and want of feeling. I could almost wish, for
the credit of the French character, to have found some indications
that the past was not so soon consigned to oblivion.

It is true, the reign of Robespierre and his sanguinary tribunal are execrated in studied phrases;
yet is it enough to adopt humanity as a mode, to sing the Revel du Peuple in preference to the Marseillois,
or to go to a theatre with a well-powdered head, instead of cropped
locks a la Jacobin?

 On my left stood Cyril's caricature of Wilderspin's
'Faith and Love,' upon which the light from a window was falling aslant!

Before I could pass round the easel into the open space I was arrested by overhearing a conversation
between Cyril, Sinfi, and Wilderspin.

They were talking about her!

With my eyes fixed on Cyril's caricature on my left hand; I stood, every nerve in my body seeming
to listen to the talk, while the veil of the goddess-queen in the caricature appeared to become
illuminated; the tragedy of our love (from the spectacle of her father's dead body shining
in the moonlight, with a cross on his breast, down to the hideous-grotesque scene of the woman
at the corner of Essex Street) appeared to be represented on the veil of the mocking queen
in little pictures of scorching flame. These are the words I heard:

'Keep your head in that position, Lady Sinfi,' said Cyril, 'and pray do not get so excited.'

'I thought I felt the Swimmin' Rei in the room,' said Sinfi.

'What do you mean?'

'I thought I felt the stir of him in my burk [bosom]. Howsomever, it must ha' bin all a fancy
o' mine. But you see, Mr. Cyril, she wur once a friend o' mine. I want to know what skeared
her? If it was her as set for the pictur, she'd never 'a' had the fit if she hadn't, 'a' bin
skeared. I s'pose Mr. Wilderspin didn't go an' say the word "feyther" to her? I s'pose he didn't
go an' ax her who her feyther was?'

I heard Wilderspin's voice say. 'No, indeed. I would never have asked who her father was. Ah,
Mr. Cyril, I knew how mysteriously she had come to me; why should I ask who was her father?
Her earthly parentage was not an illusion. But you will remember that I was not in the studio
at the time of the fit. Mr. Ebury had called about a commission, and I had gone into the next
room to speak to him. You came into the studio at the time, Mr. Cyril. When I returned, I found
her in the fit, and you standing over her.'

'No, don't get up, Sinfi, my girl,' I heard Cyril say. 'Sit down quietly, and I will tell you
what, passed. There is no doubt I did ask her about her father, poor thing; but I did it with
the best intentions--did it for her good, as I thought--did it to learn whether she had been
kidnapped, and certainly not from idle curiosity.'

'Scepticism, the curse of the age,' said Wilderspin.

I heard Cyril say, 'Who could have thought it would turn out so? But you yourself had told
me, Wilderspin, of Mother Gudgeon's injunction not to ask the girl who her father was, and
of course it had upon me the opposite effect the funny hag had intended it to have upon you.
It was hard to believe that such a flower could have sprung from such a root. I thought it
very likely that the woman had told you this to prevent your getting at the truth about their
connection; so I decided to question the model myself, but determined to wait till you had
had a good number of sittings, lest there should come a quarrel with the woman.'

'Well, an' so you asked her?' said Sinfi.

'I thought the moment had come for me to try to read the puzzle,' said Cyril. 'So, on that
day when Ebury called, when you, Wilderspin, had left us together, I walked up to her and said,
"Is your father alive?"'

'Ah!' cried Sinfi, 'it was as I thought. It was the word "feyther" as killed her! An' what'll
become o' him?'

'The word "father" seemed to shoot into her like a bullet,' said Cyril. 'She shrieked "Father,"
and her face looked--'

'No, don't, tell me how she looked!' said Sinfi. 'Mr. Wilderspin's pictur' o' the witch and
the lady shows how she  looked--whoever she was. But if it was Winnie Wynne. what'll become
o' him?'

Then I heard. Cyril address Wilderspin again. 'We had great difficulty, you remember, Wilderspin,
in bringing her round, and afterwards I took her out of the house, put her into a cab, and
you directed your servant whither to take her.'

'It was scepticism that ruined all.' I heard Wilderspin say.

'And yet,' said Sinfi, 'the Golden Hand on Snowdon told as he'd marry Winifred Wynne. Ah! surely
the Swimmin' Rei is in the room! I thought I heard that choke come in his throat as comes when
he frets about Winnie. Howsomever, I s'pose it must ha' bin all a fancy o' mine.'

'You make me laugh, Sinfi, about this golden hand of yours that is stronger than the hand of
Death,' said Cyril; 'and yet I wish from my heart I could believe it.'

'My poor mammy used to say, "The Gorgios believes when they ought to disbelieve, and they disbelieve
when they ought to believe, and that gives the Romanies a chance."'

'Sinfi Lovell,' said Wilderspin, 'that saying of your mother's touches at the very root of
romantic art.'

'Well, if Gorgios don't believe enough, Sinfi,--if there is not enough superstition among certain
Gorgio acquaintances of mine, it's a pity,' said Cyril.

'I don't know what you are a-talkin' about with your romantic art an' sich like, but I do know
that nothink can't go ag'in the dukkeripen o' the clouds; but if I was on Snowdon with my crwth
I could soon tell for sartin whether she's alive or dead,' said Sinfi.

'And how?' said Cyril.

'How? By playin' on the hills the old Welsh dukkerin' tune [Footnote 1] as she was so fond
on. If she was dead, she wouldn't hear it, but if she was alive she would, and her livin' mullo
[Footnote 2] 'ud come to it,' said Sinfi.

[Footnote 1: Incantation song.]

[Footnote 2: Wraith or fetch.]

'Do you believe that possible?' said Cyril, turning to Wilderspin.

'My friend,' said Wilderspin, 'I was at that moment repeating to myself certain wise and pregnant
words quoted from an Oriental book by the great Philip Aylwin--words which tell us that he
is too bold who dares say what he will believe, what disbelieve, not knowing in any wise the
mind of God--not knowing in any wise his own heart and what it shall one day suffer.'

'But,' said Sinfi, 'about her as sat to Mr. Wilderspin; did she never talk at all, Mr. Cyril?'

'Never; but I saw her only three times,' said Cyril.

'Mr. Wilderspin,' said Sinfi, 'did she never talk?'

'Only once, and that was when the woman addressed her as Winifred. That name set me thinking
about the famous Welsh saint and those wonderful miracles of hers, and I muttered "St. Winifred."
The face of the model immediately grew bright with a new light, and she spoke the only words
I ever heard her speak.'

'You never told me of this,' said Cyril.

'She stooped,' said Wilderspin, 'and went through a strange kind of movement, as though she
were dipping water from a well, and said, "Please, good St. Winifred, bless the holy water
and make it cure--"'

'Ah, for God's sake stop!' cried Sinfi. 'Look! the Swimmin' Rei! He's in the room! There he
stan's, and he's a-hearin' every word, an' it'll kill him outright!'

I stared at Cyril's picture of Leæna for which Sinfi was sitting. I heard her say,

'There ain't nothink so cruel as seein' him take on like that; I've seed it afore, many's the
time, in old Wales. You'll find her yit. The dukkeripen says you'll marry her yit, and you
will. She can't be dead when the sun and the golden clouds say you'll marry her at last. Her
as is dead must ha' been somebody else.'

'Sinfi, you know there is no hope.'

'It might not ha' bin your Winnie, arter all,' said she. 'It might ha' bin some poor innocent
as her feyther used to beat. It's wonderful how cruel Gorgio feythers is to poor born naterals.
And she might ha' heerd in London about St. Winifred's Well a-curin' people.'

'Sinfi,' I said, 'you know there is no hope. And I have no friend but you now--I am going back
to the Romanies.'

'No, no, brother,' she said, 'never no more.'

She put on her shawl. I rose mechanically. When she bade Cyril and Wilderspin good-bye and
passed out of the studio, I did so too. In the street she stood and looked wistfully at me,
as though she saw me through a mist, and then bade me good-bye, saying that she must go to
Kingston Vale where her people were encamped in a hired field. We separated, and I wandered
I knew not whither.

III

I found myself inquiring for the New North Cemetery, and after a time I stood looking through
the bars of tall iron gates at long lines of gravestones and dreary hillocks before me. Then
I went in, walking straight over the grass towards a gravedigger digging in the sunshine. He
looked at me, resting his foot on his spade.

'I want to find a grave.'

'What part was the party buried in?'

'The pauper part,' I said.

'Oh,' said he, losing suddenly his respectful tone. 'When was she buried? I suppose it was
a she by the look o' you.'

'When? I don't know the date.'

'Rather a wide order that, but there's the pauper part.' And he pointed to a spot at some little
distance, where there were no gravestones and no shrubs. I walked across to this Desert of
Poverty, which seemed too cheerless for a place of rest. I stood and gazed at the mounds till
the black coffins underneath grew upon my mental vision, and seemed to press upon my brain.
Thoughts I had none, only a sense of being another person.

The man came slowly towards me, and then looked meditatively into my face. I shall never forget
him. A tall, sallow, emaciated man he was, with cheek-bones high and sharp as an American Indian's,
and straight black hair. He looked like a wooden image of Mephistopheles, carved with a jack-knife.

'Who are you?' The words seemed to come, not from the gravedigger's mouth, but from those piles
of lamp-blacked coffins which were searing my eyes through four feet of graveyard earth. By
the fever-fires in my brain I seemed to see the very faces of the corpses.

'Who am I?' I said to myself, as I thought, but evidently aloud; 'I am the Fool of Superstition.
I am Fenella Stanley's Fool, and Sinfi Lovell's Fool, and Philip Aylwin's Fool, who went and
averted a curse from one of the heads resting down here, averted a curse by burying a jewel
in a dead man's tomb.'

'Not in this cemetery, so none o' your gammon,' said the gravedigger, who had overheard me.
'The on'y people as is fools enough to bury jewels with dead bodies is the Gypsies, and they
take precious good care, as I know, to keep it mum where they bury 'em. There's bin as much
diggin' for them thousand guineas as was buried with Jerry Chilcott in Foxleigh Parish, where
I was born, as would more nor pay for emptying a gold mine; but I never heard o' Christian
folk a-buryin' jewels. But who are you?'

I felt a hand upon my shoulder, and looking round, I found Sinfi by my side.

'Does he belong to you, my gal?'

'Yis,' said Sinfi, with a strange, deep ring in her rich contralto voice. 'Yis, he belongs
to me now--leastways he's my pal now--whatever comes on it.'

'Then take him away, my wench. What's the matter with him? The old complaint, I s'pose,' he
added, lifting his hand to his mouth as though drinking from a glass.

Sinfi gently put out her hand and brushed the man aside.

'I've bin a-followin' on you all the way, brother,' said Sinfi, as we moved out of the cemetery,
'for your looks skeared me a bit. Let's go away from this place.'

'But whither, Sinfi? I have no friend but you; I have no home.'

'No home, brother? The kairengros [Footnote] has got about everythink, 'cept the sky an' the
wind, an' you're one o' the richest kairengros on 'em all--leastways so I wur told t'other
day in Kingston Vale. It's the Romanies, brother, as 'ain't got no home 'cept the sky an' the
wind. Howsumever, that's nuther here nor there; we'll jist go to the woman they told me on,
an' if there's any truth to be torn out of her, out it'll ha' to come, if I ha' to tear out
her windpipe with it.'

[Footnote: The house-dwellers.]

We took a cab and were soon in Primrose Court.

The front door was wide open--fastened back. Entering the narrow common passage, we rapped
at a dingy inner door. It was opened by a pretty girl, whose thick chestnut hair and eyes to
match contrasted richly with the dress she wore--a dirty black dress, with great patches of
lining bursting through holes like a whity-brown froth.

'Meg Gudgeon?' said the girl in answer to our inquiries; and at first she looked at us rather
suspiciously, 'upstairs, she's very bad--like to die--I'm a-seein' arter 'er. Better let 'er
alone; she bites when she's in 'er tantrums.'

'We's friends o' hern,' said Sinfi, whose appearance and decisive voice seemed to reassure
the girl.

'Oh, if you're friends that's different,' said she. 'Meg's gone off 'er 'ead; thinks the p'leace
in plain clothes are after 'er.'

We went up the stairs. The girl followed us. When we reached a low door, Sinfi proposed that
she should remain outside on the landing, but within ear-shot, as 'the sight o' both on us,
all of a suddent, might make the poor body all of a dither if she was very ill.'

The girl then opened the door and went in. I heard the woman's voice say in answer to her,

'Friend? Who is it? Are you sure, Poll, it ain't a copper in plain clothes come about that gal?'

The girl came out, and signalling me to enter, went leisurely downstairs. Leaving Sinfi outside
on the landing, I entered the room. There, on a sort of truckle-bed in one corner, I saw the
woman. She slowly raised herself up on her elbows to stare at me. I took for granted that she
would recognise me at once; but either because she was in drink when I saw her last, or because
she had got the idea of a policeman in plain clothes, she did not seem to know me. Then a look
of dire alarm broke over her face and she said,

'P'leaceman, I'm as hinicent about that air gal as a new-born babe.'

'Mrs. Gudgeon,' I said, 'I only want you to tell a friend of mine about your daughter.'

'Oh yis! a friend o' yourn! Another or two on ye in plain clothes behind the door, I dessay.
An' pray who said the gal wur my darter? What for do you want to put words into the mouth of
a hinicent dyin' woman? I comed by 'er 'onest enough. The pore half-starved thing came up to
me in Llanbeblig churchyard.'

'Llanbeblig churchyard?' I exclaimed, drawing close up to the bed. 'How came you in Llanbeblig
churchyard?' But then I remembered that, according to her own story, she had married a Welshman.

'How did I come in Llanbeblig churchyard?' said the woman in a tone in which irony and fear
were strangely mingled. 'Well, p'leaceman, I don't mean to be sarcy: but seein' as all my pore
dear 'usband's kith and kin o' the name o' Goodjohn was buried in Llanbeblig churchyard, p'raps
you'll be kind enough to let me go there sometimes, an' p'raps be buried there when my time comes.'

'But what took you there?' I said.

'What took me to Llanbeblig churchyard?' exclaimed the woman, whose natural dogged courage
seemed to be returning to her. 'What made me leave every fardin' I had in the world with Poll
Onion, when we ommust wanted bread, an' go to Carnarvon on Shanks's pony? I sha'n't tell ye.
I comed by the gal 'onest enough, an' she never comed to no 'arm through me, less mendin' 'er
does for 'er, and bringin' 'er to London, and bein' a mother to 'er, an' givin' 'er a few baskets
an' matches to sell is a-doin' 'er any 'arm. An' as to beggin' she would beg, she loved to
beg an' say texes.'

'Old kidnapper!' I cried, maddened by the visions that came upon me. 'How do I know that she
came to no harm with a wretch like you?'

The woman shrank back upon the pillows in a revival of her terror. 'She never comed to no 'arm,
p'leaceman. No, no, she never comed to no 'arm through me. I'd a darter once o' my own, Jenny
Gudgeon by name--p'raps you know'd 'er, most o' the coppers did--as was brought up by my sister
by marriage at Carnarvon, an' I sent for 'er to London, I did, pl'eaceman--God forgi'e me--an'
she went wrong all through me bein' a drinkin' woman an' not seein' arter 'er, just as my son
Bob tookt to drink, through me bein' a drinkin' woman an' not seein' arter him. She tookt and
went from bad to wuss, bad to wuss; it's my belief as it's allus starvation as drives 'em to
it; an' when she wur a-dyin' gal, she sez to me, "Mother," sez she, "I've got the smell o'
Welsh vi'lets on me ag'in: I wants to be buried in Llanbeblig churchyard, among the Welsh child'n
an' maids, mother. I wants to feel the snowdrops, an' smell the vi'lets, an' the primroses,
a-growin' over my 'ead," sez she; "but that can't never be, mother," sez she, a-sobbin' fit
to bust; "never, never, for such as me," sez she. An' I know'd what she meant, though she never
once blamed me, an' 'er words stuck in my gizzard like a thorn, p'leaceman.'

'But what has all this to do with the girl you kidnapped?'

'Ain't I a-tellin' on ye as fast as I can? When my pore gal dropped off to sleep, I sez to
Polly Onion, "Poll," I sez, "to-morrow mornin' I'll pop every-think as ain't popped a'ready,
an' I'll leave you the money to see arter 'er, an' I'll start for Carnarvon on Shanks's pony.
I knows a good many on the road," sez I, "as won't let Jokin' Meg want for a crust and a sup,
an' when I gits to Carnarvon I'll ax 'er aunt to bury 'er (she sells fish, 'er aunt does,"'
sez I, "and she's got a pot o' money), an' then I'll see the parson or the sexton or somebody,"
sez I, "an' I'll tell 'em I've got a darter in London as is goin' to die, a Carnarvon gal by
family, an' I'll tell 'im she ain't never bin married, an' then they'll bury 'er where she
can smell the primroses and the vi'lets." That's what I sez to Poll Onion, an' then Poll she
begins to pipe, an' sez, "Oh Meg, Meg, ain't I a Carnarvon gal too? The likes o' us ain't a-goin'
to grow no vi'lets an' snowdrops in Llanbeblig churchyard." An' I sez to her, "What a d--d
fool you are, Poll! You never 'adn't a gal as went wrong through you a-drinkin', else you'd
never say that. If the parson sez to me, 'Is your darter a vargin-maid?' d'ye think I shall
say, 'Oh no, parson'? I'll swear she is a vargin-maid on all the Bibles in all the churches
in Wales." That's jis' what I sez to Polly Onion, God forgi'e me. An' Poll sez, "The parson'll
be sure to send you to hell, Meg, if you do that air." An' I sez, "So he may, then, but I shall
do it, no fear." That's what I sez to Poll Onion (she's downstairs at this werry moment a-warmin'
me a drop o' beer); it was 'er as showed you upstairs, cuss 'er for a fool; an' she can tell
you the same thing as I'm a-tellin' on you.'

'But what about her you kidnapped? Tell me all about it, or it will be worse for you.'

'Ain't I a-tellin' you as fast as I can? Off to Carnarvon I goes, an' every futt o' the way
I walks--Lor' bless your soul, there worn't a better pair o' pins nowheres than Meg Gudgeon's
then, afore the water got in 'em an' bust 'em; an' I got to Llanbeblig churchyard early one
mornin', and there I seed the pore half-sharp gal. So you see I comed by 'er 'onest enough,
p'leaceman, though she worn't ezzackly my own darter.'

'Well, well,' I said; 'go on.'

'Yes, it's all very well to say "go on," p'leaceman; but if you'd got as much water in your
legs as I've got in mine, an' if you'd got no more wind in your bellows than I've got in mine,
you'd find it none so easy to go on.'

'What was she doing in the churchyard?'

'Well, p'leaceman, I'm tellin' you the truth, s'elp me Bob! I was a-lookin' over the graves
to see if I could find a nice comfortable place for my pore gal, an' all at once I heered a
kind o' sobbin' as would a' made me die o' fright if it 'adn't a' bin broad daylight, an' then
I see a gal a-layin' flat on a grave an' cryin', an' when I got up to her I seed as she wur
covered with mud, an' I seed as she wur a-starvin'.'

'Good God, woman, you are lying! you are lying!'

'No, I ain't a-lyin'. She tookt to me the moment she clapped eyes on me; most people does,
and them as don't ought, an' she got up an' put her arms round my neck, and she called me "Knocker."'

'Called you what?'

'Ain't I a-tellin' you? She called me "Knocker"; and that's the very name as she allus called
me up to the day of 'er death, pore dear! I tried to make 'er come along o' me, an' she wouldn't
stir, an' so I left 'er, meanin' to go back; but when I got to my sister's by marriage, there
was a letter for me an' it wur from Polly Onion, a-sayin' as my pore Jenny died the same day
as I left London, a-sayin', "Mother, vi'lets, vi'lets; mother, vi'lets, vi'lets!" an' was buried
by the parish. What the devil are you a-squeedgin' my 'and like that for? Are you a-goin' to
kiss it? It ain't none so clean, p'leaceman. You're the rummest copper in plain clothes ever
I seed in all my born days. Fust you seem as if you want to bite me, you looks so savage, an'
then you looks as if you wants to kiss me; you'll make me laugh, I know you will, an' that'll
make me cough.--Hi! Poll Onion, come 'ere. Bring my best lookin'-glass out o' my bowdore, an'
let me look at my ole chops, for I'm blowed if there ain't a copper in plain clothes this time
as is fell 'ead over ears in love with me, jist as the young swell did at the studero.'

'Go on, Mrs. Gudgeon,' I said; 'go on. She ate the food?'

'Oh, didn't she jist! And the pore half-sharp thing took to me, an' I took to she, an' I thinks
to myself, "She's a purty gal, if she's ever so stupid, an' she'll get 'er livin' a-sellin'
flowers o' fine days, an' a-doin' the rainy-night dodge with baskets when it's wet "; an' so
I took 'er in, an' in the street she'd all of a suddent bust out a-singin' songs about Snowdon
an' sich like, just as if she was a-singin' in a dream, and folk used to like to 'ear 'er an'
gev 'er money; an' I was a good mother to 'er, I was, an' them as sez I worn't is cussed liars.'

'And she never came to any harm?' I said, holding the great muscular hands between my two palms,
unwilling to let them go. 'She never came to any harm?'

'Ain't I said so more nor wunst? I swore on the Bible--there's the very Bible, under the match-box,
agin the winder--on that very Bible I swore as my port Jenny brought from Wales, an' as I've
never popped yit that this pore half-sharp gal should never go wrong through me; an' then,
arter I swore that, my pore Jenny let me alone, an' I never 'eard 'er v'ice no more a-cryin'.
An' many's the chap as 'as come leerin' after 'er as I've sent away with a flea in 'is ear.
Cuss 'em all; they's all bad alike about purty gals, men is. She's never comed to no wrong
through me. Didn't I ammost kill a real sailor capting when I used to live in the East End
'cause he tried to meddle with 'er? An' worn't that the reason why I left my 'um close to Radcliffe
'Ighway an' comed 'ere? Them as killed 'er wur the cussed lot in the studeros. I'm a dyin'
woman; I'm as hinicent as a new-born babe. An' there ain't nothink o' 'ern in this room on'y
a pair o' ole shoes an' a few rags in that ole trunk under the winder.'

I went to the trunk and raised the lid. The tattered, stained remains of the very dress she
wore when I last saw her in the mist on Snowdon! But what else? Pushed into an old worn shoe,
which with its fellow lay tossed among the ragged clothes, was a brown stained letter. I took
it out. It was addressed to 'Miss Winifred Wynne at Mrs. Davies's.' Part of the envelope was
torn away. It bore the Graylingham post-mark, and its superscription was in a hand which I
did not recognise, and yet it was a hand which seemed half-familiar to me. I opened it; I read
a line or two before I fully realised what it was--the letter, full of childish prattle, which
I had written to Winifred when I was a little boy--the first letter I wrote to her.

I forgot where I was, I forgot that Sinfi was standing outside the door, till I heard the woman's
voice exclaiming, 'What do you want to set on my bed an' look at me like that for?--you ain't
no p'leaceman in plain clothes, so none o' your larks. Git off o' my bed, will ye? You'll be
a-settin' on my bad leg an' a-bustin' on it in a minit. Git off my bed, else look another way;
them eyes o' yourn skear me.'

I was sitting on the side of her bed and looking into her face. 'Where did you get this?' I
said, holding out the letter.

'You skears me, a-lookin' like that,' said she. 'I comed by it 'onest. One day when she was
asleep, I was turnin' over 'er clothes to see how much longer they would hold together, when
I feels a somethink 'ard sewed up in the breast; I rips it open, and it was that letter. I
didn't put it back in the frock ag'in, 'cause I thought it might be useful some day in findin'
out who she was. She never missed it. I don't think she'd 'ave missed anythink, she wur so
oncommon silly. You ain't a-goin' to pocket it, air you?'

I had put the letter in my pocket, and had seized the shoes and was going out of the room;
but I stopped, took a sovereign from my purse, placed it in an envelope bearing my own address
which I chanced to find in my pocket, and, putting it into her hand, I said, 'Here is my address
and here is a sovereign. I will tell your friend below to come for me or send whenever you
need assistance.' The woman clutched at the money with greed, and I left the room, signalling
to Sinfi (who stood on the landing, pale and deeply moved) to follow me downstairs. When we
reached the wretched room on the ground-floor we found the girl hanging some wet rags on lines
that were stretched from wall to wall.

'What is your name?' I said.

'Polly Unwin,' replied she, turning round with a piece of damp linen in her hand.

'And what are you?'

'What am I?'

'I mean what do you do for a living?'

'What do I do for a living?' she said. 'All kinds of things--help the men at the barrows in
the New Cut sell flowers, do anything that comes in my way.'

'Never mind what she does for a livin', brother,' said Sinfi; 'give her a gold balanser or
two, and tell her to see arter the woman.'

'Here is some money,' I said to the girl. 'See that Mrs. Gudgeon upstairs wants for nothing.
Is that story of hers true about her daughter and Llanbeblig churchyard?'

'That's true enough, though she's a wunner at a lie: that's true enough.'

But as I spoke I heard a noise like the laugh or the shriek of a maniac. It seemed to come
from upstairs.

'She's a-larfin' ag'in,' said the girl. 'It's a very wicked larf, sir, ain't it? But there's
wuss uns nor Meg Gudgeon for all 'er wicked larf, as I knows. Many a time she's kep' me from
starvin'. I mus' run up an' see 'er. She'll kill herself a-larfin' yit.'

The girl hurried upstairs and I followed her, leaving Sinfi below. I re-entered the bedroom.
There was the woman, her face buried in the pillow, rocking and rolling her body half round
with the regularity of a pendulum. But I had ceased to wonder at the cruelty of Fate. The girl
went to her and shook her angrily. This seemed to allay her hysterics, for she rolled round
upon her back and stared at us. Then she looked at the envelope clutched in her hand, and read
out the address,

'Henry, Henry, Henry Halywin, Eskeuer! An' I tookt 'im for a copper in plain clothes all the
while! Henry, Henry, Henry Halywin, Eskeuer! I shall die a-larfin', I know I shall! I shall
die a-larfin', I know I shall! Poll! don't you mind me a-tellin' you about my pore darter Winifred--for
my darter she was, as I'll swear afore all the beaks in London--don't you mind me a-sayin'
that if she wouldn't talk when she wur awake, she could mag away fast enough when she wur asleep;
an' it were allus the same mag about dear little Henry, an' dear Henry Halywin as couldn't
git up the gangways without 'er. Well, pore dear Henry was 'er sweet'airt, an' this is the
chap, an' if my eyes ain't stun blind, the werry chap out o' the cussed studeros as killed
'er, pore dear, an' as is a-skearin' me away from my beautiful 'um in Primrose Court; an' 'ere
wur I a-talkin' to 'im all of a muck sweat, thinkin' he wur a copper in plain clothes!'

At this moment Sinfi entered the room. She came up to me, and laying her hand upon my shoulder
she said: 'Come away, brother, this is cruel hard for you to bear. It's our poor sister Winifred
as is dead, and it ain't nobody else.'

The effect of Sinfi's appearance and of her words upon the woman was like that of an electric
shock. She sat up in her bed open-mouthed, staring from Sinfi to me, and from me to Sinfi.

'So my darter Winifred's your sister now, is she?' (turning to me). 'A few minutes ago she
was your sweet'airt: an' now she seems to ha' bin your sister. An' she was your sister, too,
was she?' (turning to Sinfi). 'Well, all I know is, that she was my darter, Winifred Gudgeon,
as is dead, an' buried in the New North Cemetery, pore dear; an' yet she was sister to both on ye!'

She then buried her face again in the pillows and resumed the rocking movement, shrieking between
her peals of laughter: 'Well, if I'm the mother of a six-fut Gypsy gal an' a black-eyed chap
as seems jest atween a Gypsy and a Christian, I never knowed that afore. No, I never knowed
that afore! I allus said I should die a-larfin', an' so I shall; I'm a-dyin' now--ha! ha! ha!'

She fell back upon the pillow, exhausted by her own cruel merriment.

'She always said she'd die a-larfin', an' she will, too--more nor I shall ever do,' said the
girl, after we had gone downstairs.

'Did you notice what she said about Winnie a-callin' her Knocker?' said Sinfi.

'Yes, and couldn't understand it.'

'I know what it meant. Winnie knowed all about the Knockers of Snowdon, the dwarfs o' the copper
mine, and this woman, bein' so thick and short, must look ezackly like a Knocker, I should
say, if you could see one.'

I said to the girl, 'Was she really kind to--to--'

'To her you were asking about,--the Essex Street Beauty? I should think she just was. She's
a drinker, is poor Meg, and drinking in Primrose Court means starvation. Meg and the Beauty
were often short enough of grub, but, drunk or sober, Meg would never touch a mouthful till
the Beauty had had her fill. I noticed it many a time--not a mouthful. When Meg was obliged
to send her into the streets to sell things she was always afraid that the Beauty might come
to harm through the toffs and the chaps. The toffs were the worst looking after her--as they
mostly are--so I was always watching her in the day-time, and at night Meg was always watching
her, and that was what made me know your face, as soon as ever I clapt eyes on it.'

'Why, what do you mean?'

'Well, one rainy night when I was standing by the theatre door, I heard a toff ask a policeman
about the Essex Street Beauty, and I thought I knew what that meant very well. So I ran off
to find Meg. I had seen her watching the Beauty all the time. But lo and behold! Meg was gone
and the Beauty too. So I run across here, and found Meg and the Beauty getting their supper
as quiet as possible. Meg had heard the toff talking to the policeman--though I didn't know
she was standing so near--and whisked her off and away as quick as lightning.'

'That was I,' I said. 'God! God! If I had only known!'

'There's the same look now on your face as there was then, and I should know it among ten thousand.'

'Polly Onion,' I said, 'there is my address, and if ever you want a friend, and if you are
in trouble, you will know where to find assistance,' and I gave her another sovereign.

'You're a good sort,' said she, 'and no mistake.'

'Good-bye,' I said, shaking her hand. 'See well after Mrs. Gudgeon.'

'All right,' said she, and a smile broke over her face. 'I think I ought to tell you now,'
she continued, 'that Meg's no more ill of dropsy than I am; she could walk twenty miles off
the reel; there ain't a bullock in England half as strong as Meg; she's shamming.'

'Shamming, but why?'

'Well, she ain't drunk; ever since the Beauty died she's never touched a drop o' gin. But she's
turned quite cranky. She's got it into her head that the relations of the Beauty are going
to send her to prison for kidnapping; and she thinks that every one that comes near her is
a policeman in plain clothes. She's just lying in bed to keep herself out of the way till she
starts.'

'Where's she going, then?'

'She talks about going to see after her son Bob in the country; her husband is a Welshman.
He's over the water.'

'Did you say she had given up drinking?' I asked.

'Yes; she seemed to dote on the Beauty, and when the Beauty died she said, "My darter went
wrong through me drinkin', and my son Bob went wrong through me drinkin'; and I feel somehow
that it was through my drinkin' that I lost the Beauty; and never will you find me touch another
drop o' gin, Poll. Beer I ain't fond on, and it 'ud take a rare swill o' beer to get up as
far as Meg Gudgeon's head."'

'There ain't much fault to be found with a woman like Meg Gudgeon,' said Sinfi. 'Was the Beauty
fond o' her? She ought to ha' bin.'

'She used to call her Knocker,' said the girl. 'She seemed very fond of her when they were
together, but seemed to forget her as soon as they were apart.'

Sinfi and I then left the house.

In Great Queen Street she took my hand as if to bid me good-bye. But she stood and gazed at
me wistfully, and I gazed at her. At last she said,

'An' now, brother, we'll jist go across to Kingston Vale, an' see my daddy, an' set your livin'-waggin
to rights.'

'Then, Sinfi,' I said, 'you and I are once more--'

I stopped and looked at her. The fearless young Amazon and seeress, who kept a large family
of the Kaulo Camloes in awe, was supposed to have nearly conquered the feminine weakness of
tears; but she had not. There was a chink in the Amazon's armour, and I had found it.

'Yis,' said she, nodding her head and smiling. 'You an' me's right pals ag'in.'

As we were going I told her how I had replaced the jewel in the tomb.

'I know'd you would do it. Yis, I heer'd you telling the gravedigger the same thing.'

'And yet,' said I bitterly, 'in spite of that and in spite of the Golden Hand, she is dead.'

Sinfi stood silently looking at me now. Even her prodigious faith seemed conquered.

IV

For a few days I paced with Sinfi over Wimbledon Common and Richmond Park, The weather was
now unusually brilliant for the time of year. Sinfi would walk silently by my side.

But I could not rest with the Gypsies. I must be alone. Soon I left the camp and returned to
London, where I took a suite of rooms in a house not far from Eaton Square--though to me London
was a huge meaningless maze of houses clustered around Primrose Court--that horrid, fascinating,
intolerable core of pain. Into my lungs poured the hateful atmosphere of the city where Winifred
had perished; poured hot and stifling as sand-blasts of the desert. Impossible to stay there!--for
the pavement seemed actually to scorch my feet, like the floor of a fiery furnace. To me the
sun above was but the hideous eye of Circumstance which had stared down pitilessly on that
bare head of hers, and blistered those feet.

The lamps at night seemed twinkling, blinking in a callous consciousness of my tragedy--my
monstrous tragedy of real life, the like of which no poet dare imagine. But what aroused my
wrath to an unbearable pitch--what determined me to leave London at once--was the sight of
the unsympathetic faces in the streets. Though sympathy could have given me no comfort, the
myriad unsympathetic eyes of London infuriated me.

'Died in beggar's rags--died in a hovel!' I muttered with rage as the equipages and coarse
splendours of the West End rolled insolently by. 'Died in a hovel!--and this London, this vast,
ridiculous, swarming human ant-hill, whose millions of paltry humdrum lives were not worth
one breath from those lips--this London spurned her, left her to perish alone in her squalor
and misery.'

Cyril and Wilderspin had returned to the Continent. D'Arcy was still away.

I made application to the Home Secretary to have the pauper grave opened. On the ground that
I was 'not a relative of the deceased,' the officials refused to institute even preliminary
inquiries.

During this time no news of Mrs. Gudgeon had come to me through Polly Onion, and I determined
to go to Primrose Court and see what had become of her.

When I reached Primrose Court I found that the shutters of the house were up. Knocking and
getting no response, I ascertained from a pot-boy who was passing the corner of the court that
Mrs. Gudgeon had decamped. Neither the pot-boy nor any one in the court could tell me whither
she was gone.

'But where is Polly Onion?' I asked anxiously; for I was beginning to blame myself bitterly
for having neglected them.

'I can tell you where poor Polly is,' said the pot-boy. 'She's in the New North Cemetery. She
fell downstairs and broke her neck.'

'Why, she lived downstairs,' I said.

'That's true; you seem to be well up in the family, sir. But Poll couldn't pay her rent, so
old Meg took her in. And on the very morning when Meg and Poll were a-startin' off together
into the country--it was quite early and dark--Poll stumbles over three young flower-gals as
'ad crep' in the front door in the night time and was makin' the stairs their bed. Gals as
hadn't made enough to pay for their night's lodgin' often used to sleep on Meg's stairs. Poll
was picked up as nigh dead as a toucher, and she died at the 'ospital.'

Toiling in the revolving cage of Circumstance, I strove in vain against that most appalling
form of envy--the envy of one's fellow creatures that they should live and breathe while there
is no breath of life for the one.

My uncle Cecil's death had made me a rich man; but what was wealth to me if it could not buy
me respite from the vision haunting me day and night--the vision of the attic, the mattress,
and the woman?

And as I thought of the powerlessness of wealth to give me one crumb of comfort, and remembered
Winnie's sermon about wealth, I would look at myself in the mirror above my mantelpiece and
smile bitterly at the sight of the hollow cheeks, furrowed brow, and melancholy eyes, and recall
her words about her hovering near me after she was dead.

The thought of my wealth and the squalor in which she had died was, I think, the most maddening
thought of all. I had now become the possessor of Wilderspin's picture 'Faith and Love,' having
bought it of the Bond Street dealer to whom it belonged; and also of the 'Christabel' picture,
and these I was constantly looking at as they hung up on the walls of my room. After a while,
however, I destroyed the 'Christabel' picture, it was too painful. Though I would not see such
friends as I had, I read their letters; indeed, it was these same letters which alone could
draw from me a grim smile now and then.

Almost every letter ended by urging me, in order to flee from my sorrows, to travel! With the
typical John Bull travelling seems to be always the panacea. In sorrow, John's herald of peace
is Baedeker: the dispenser of John's true nepenthe is Mr. Murray. Pity and love for Winifred
pursued me, tortured me nigh unto death, and therefore did these friends of mine seem to suppose
that I wanted to flee from my pity and sorrow! Why, to flee from my sorrow, to get free of
my pity, to flee from the agonies that went nigh to tearing soul from body, would have been
to flee from all that I had left of life--memory.

Did I want to flee from Winnie? Why, memory was Winnie now; and did I want to flee from her?
And yet it was memory that was goading me on to the verge of madness. No doubt the reader thinks
me a weak creature for allowing the passion of pity to sap my manhood in this fashion. But
it was not so much her death as the manner of her death that withered my heart and darkened
my soul. The calamities which fell upon her, grievous beyond measure, unparalleled, not to
be thought of save with a pallor of cheek and a shudder of the flesh, were ever before me,
mocking me--maddening me.

'Died in a hovel!' As I gave voice to this impeachment of Heaven, night after night, wandering
up and down the streets, my brain was being scorched and withered by those same thoughts of
anger against destiny and most awful revolt which had appalled me when first I saw how the
curse of Heaven or the whim of Circumstance had been fulfilled.

Then came that passionate yearning for death, which grief such as mine must needs bring. But
if what Materialism teaches were true, suicide would rob me even of my memory of her. If, on
the other hand, what I had been taught by the supernaturalism of my ancestors were true, to
commit suicide might be but to play finally into the hands of that same unknown pitiless power
with whom my love had all along been striving.

'Suicide might sever my soul from hers for ever.' I said, and then the tragedy would seem too
monstrously unjust to be true, and I said: 'It cannot be--such things cannot be: it is a hideous
dream. She is not dead! She is in Wales with friends at Carnarvon, and I shall awake and laugh
at all this imaginary woe!'

And what were now my feelings towards the memory of my father? Can a man cherish in his heart
at one and the same moment scorn of another man for believing in the efficacy of a curse, and
bitter anger against him for having left a curse behind him? He can! On my return to London
after my illness I had sent back to Wilderspin the copy of The Veiled Queen he had lent me.
But from the library of Raxton Hall I brought my father's own copy, elaborately bound in the
tooled black calf my father affected. The very sight of that black binding now irritated me;
never did I pass it without experiencing a sensation that seemed a blending of scorn and fear:
scorn of the ancestral superstitions the book gave voice to: fear of them.

One day I took the book from the shelves and then hurled it across the room. Stumbling over
it some days after this, a spasm of ungovernable rage came upon me, for terribly was my blood
struggling with Fenella Stanley and Philip Aylwin, and thousands of ancestors, Romany and Gorgio,
who for ages upon ages had been shaping my destiny. I began to tear out the leaves and throw
them on the fire. But suddenly I perceived the leaves to be covered with marginalia in my father's
manuscript, and with references to Fenella Stanley's letters--letters which my father seemed
to have studied as deeply as though they were the writings of a great philosopher instead of
the scribblings of an ignorant Gypsy. My eye had caught certain written words which caused
me to clutch at the sheets still burning on the fire. Too late!--I grasped nothing save a little
paper-ash. Then I turned to the pages still left in my hand, and read these words of my father's:

'These marginalia are written for the eyes of my dear son, into whose hands this copy of my
book will come. Until he gave me his promise to bury the amulet with me, I felt alone in the
world. But even he failed to understand what he called "my superstition." He did not know that
by perpetually feeling on my bosom the facets of the beloved jewel which had long lain warm
upon hers--the cross which had received the last kiss from her lips--I had been able to focus
all the scattered rays of thought--I had been able to vitalise memory till it became an actual
presence. He did not know that out of my sorrow had been born at last a strange kind of happiness--the
happiness that springs from loving a memory--living with a memory--till it becomes a presence--an
objective reality. He did not know that, by holding her continually in my thoughts, by means
of the amulet, I achieved at last the miracle described by the Hindoo poets--the miracle of
reshaping from the undulations of "the three regions of the universe the remembered object
by the all-creative magic of love!"'

Then followed some translations from the Kumara-sambhava and other Sanscrit poems, and then
the well-known passage in Lucretius about dreams, and then a pathetic account of the visions
called up within him by the sensation caused by the lacerations of the facets of the cherished
amulet upon his bosom--visions something akin, as I imagine, to those experienced by convulsionnaires.
And then after all this learning came references to poor ignorant Fenella Stanley's letters
and extracts from them.

In one of these extracts I was startled to come upon the now familiar word 'crwth.'

'De Welch fok ses as de livin mullos only follow the crwth on Snowdon wen it is playde by a
Welch Chavi, but dat is all a lie. Dey follows the crwth when a Romany Chi plays it as I nows
very wel, but de chavi wot play on the crwth, shee must love the living mullo she want for
to come, and de living mullo must love her.'

And then followed my father's comments on the extract.

'N.B.--To see and hear a crwth, if possible, and ascertain the true nature of the vibrations.
But there are said to be only a few crwths in existence; and very likely there is no musician
who could play upon them.'

Then followed a few sentences written at a later date.

'The crwth is now becoming obsolete; on inquiry I learn that it is a stringed instrument played
with a bow like a violin; but as one of the feet of the bridge passes through one of the sound-holes
and rests on the inside of the back, the vibrations must be quite unique, if we remember how
important a part is played by the back in all instruments of the violin kind. It must be far
more subtle than the vibrations of the Welsh harp, and even more subtle (if also more nasal)
than those of the violin.

'The reason why music has in all ages been called in to aid in evoking the spirits, the reason
why it is as potent now as ever it was in aiding the spirits to manifest themselves, is simple
enough: the rhythmic vibrations of music set in active motion the magnetic waves through whose
means alone the two worlds, spiritual and material, can hold communication. The quality and
the value of these vibrations depend mainly, no doubt, upon the magnetic power, conscious or
other, of the musician, but partly also upon the kind of instrument used. The vibrations awakened
by stringed instruments have been long known to be more subtle than any others: instruments
of the violin kind are of course the most subtle of all. Doubtless this is why among the Welsh
hills the old saying used to be "The spirits follow the crwth."'

'Which folly is the more besotted,' I said, as I read and re-read the marginalia--'that of
the scholar with his scientific nonsense about vibrations, or that of the ignorant Gypsy with
her living mullos drawn through the air by music and love?'

But now my eyes fell upon a very different kind of marginal note which ran thus:--

'The one important fact of the twentieth century will be the growth and development of that
great Renascence of Wonder which set in in Europe at the close of the eighteenth century and
the beginning of the nineteenth.

'The old impulse of wonder which came to the human race in its infancy has to come back--has
to triumph--before the morning of the final emancipation of man can dawn.

'But the wonder will be exercised in very different fields from those in which it was exercised
in the past. The materialism which at this moment seems to most thinkers inseparable from the
idea of evolution will go. Against their own intentions certain scientists are showing that
the spiritual force called life is the maker and not the creature of organism--is a something
outside the material world, a something which uses the material world as a means of phenomenal
expression.

'The materialist, with his primitive and confiding belief in the testimony of the senses, is
beginning to be left out in the cold, when men like Sir W. R. Grove turn round on him and tell
him that "the principle of all certitude" is not and cannot be the testimony of his own senses;
that these senses, indeed, are no absolute tests of phenomena at all; that probably man is
surrounded by beings he can neither see, feel, hear, nor smell; and that, notwithstanding the
excellence of his own eyes, ears, and nose, the universe the materialist is mapping out so
deftly is, and must be, monophysical, lightless, colourless, soundless--a phantasmagoric show--a
deceptive series of undulations, which become colour, or sound, or what not, according to the
organism upon which they fall.'

These words were followed by a sequence of mystical sonnets about "the Omnipotence of Love,"
which showed, beyond doubt, that if my father was not a scientific thinker, he was, at least,
a very original poet. And this made me perplexed as to what could have drawn Wilderspin, who
scorned the art of poetry, into the meshes of The Veiled Queen. Perhaps, however, it was because
Wilderspin's ancestry was, notwithstanding his English name, largely, if not wholly, Welsh,
as I learnt from Cyril. Welshmen, whether sensitive or not to the rhythmic expression of the
English language, are almost all, I believe, of the poetic temperament.

But from this moment my mind began to run upon the picture of Fenella Stanley, surrounded by
those Snowdonian spirits which her music was supposed to have evoked from the mountain air
of the morning.

XIII

THE MAGIC  OF  SNOWDON

I

In a few days I left London and went to North Wales.

Opposite to me in the railway carriage sat an elderly lady, into whose face I occasionally
felt myself to be staring in an unconscious way. But I was merely communing with myself: I
was saying to myself, 'My love of North Wales, and especially of Snowdon, is certainly very
strong; but it is easily accounted for--it is a matter of temperament. Even had Wales not been
associated with Winnie, I still must have dearly loved it. Much has been said about the effect
of scenery upon the minds and temperaments of those who are native to it. But temperament is
a matter of ancestral conditions: the place of one's birth is an accident. As some, like my
cousin Percy, for instance are born with a passion for the sea, and some with a passion for
forests, some with a passion for mountains, and some with a passion for rolling plains. The
landscape amid which I was born had, no doubt, a charm for me, and could bring to me that nature-ecstacy
which I inherited from Fenella Stanley. For my own part, I confess I have merely endeavoured
to be impartial, and have not scrupled to give a preference to my
own country where I believed it was due.

I make no pretensions to that sort of cosmopolitanism which is without partialities, and affects
to consider the Chicktaw or the Tartars of Thibet, with the same regard as a fellow-countryman.
Such universal philanthropists, I have often suspected, are people of very cold hearts, who
fancy they love the whole world, because they are incapable of loving any thing in it, and
live in a state of "moral vagabondage," (as it is happily termed by Gregoire,) in order to be
exempted from the ties of a settled residence.

'What an extraordinary idea!' said the old lady, in the conciliatory tone she would have adopted
towards a madman whom she found alone with her in a railway carriage. 'I mean he was very eccentric,
wasn't he?'

'Who shall say, madam?

My intention was to take up my residence at the cottage where Winifred had lived with her aunt.
Indeed, for a few days I did this, taking with me one of the Welsh peasants with whom I had
previously made friends. But of course a lengthened stay in such a house was impossible. More
than ever now I needed attendance, and good attendance, for I had passed into a strange state
of irritability--I had no command over my nerves, which were jarred by the most trifling thing.
I went to the hotel at Peri y Gwryd, but there tourists and visitors made life more intolerable
still to a man in my condition.

At first I thought of building a house as near to the cottage as possible; but this would take
time, and I could not rest out of Wales. I decided at last to have a wooden bungalow built.
By telling the builders that time was the first consideration with me, the cost a secondary
one, I got a bungalow built in a few weeks. By the tradesmen of Chester I got it fitted up
and furnished to my taste with equal rapidity. Attending to this business gave real relief.

When the bungalow was finished I removed into it the picture 'Faith and Love.' I also got in
as much painting material as I might want and began to make sketches in the neighbourhood.

Time went on, and there I remained. In a great degree, however, the habit of grieving was conquered
by my application to work. My moroseness of temper gradually left me.

Beautiful memories began to take the place of hideous ones--the picture of the mattress and
the squalor gave place to pictures of Winifred on the sands of Raxton or on Snowdon. Yet so
much of habit is there in grief that even at this time I was subject to recurrent waves of
the old pain--waves which were sometimes as overmastering as ever.

I did not neglect the cottage, which was now my property, but kept it in exactly the same state
as that in which it had been put by Sinfi after Winnie had wandered back to Wales.

By isolating myself from all society, by surrounding myself with mementos of Winifred, memory
really did at last seem to be working a miracle such as was worked for the widowed Ja'afar.

Yet not entirely had memory passed into an objective presence. I seemed to feel Winnie near
me; but that was all. I felt that more necessary than anything else in perfecting the atmosphere
of memory in which I would live was the society of her in whom alone I had found sympathy--Sinfi
Lovell. Did I also remember the wild theories of my father and Fenella Stanley about the crwth?
To obtain the company of Sinfi had now become very difficult--her attitude towards me had so
changed. When she allowed me to rejoin the Lovells at Kingston Vale she did so under the compulsion
of my distress. But my leaving the Gypsies of my own accord left her free from this compulsion.
She felt that she had now at last bidden me farewell for ever.

Still, opportunities of seeing her occasionally would, I knew, present themselves, and I now
determined to avail myself of these. Panuel Lovell and some of the Boswells were not unfrequently
in the neighbourhood, and they were always accompanied by Sinfi and Videy.

II

On a certain occasion, when I learnt that the Lovells were in the neighbourhood, I sought them
out. Sinfi at first was extremely shy, or distant, or proud, or scared, and it was not till
after one or two interviews that she relaxed. She still was overshadowed by some mysterious
feeling towards me that seemed at one moment anger, at another dread. However, I succeeded
at last. I persuaded Panuel and his daughters to leave their friends at 'the Place,' and spend
a few days with me at the bungalow. Great was the gaping and wide the grinning among the tourists
to see me inarching along the Capel Curig road with three Gypsies. But to all human opinion
I had become as indifferent as Wilderspin himself.

As we walked along the road, Sinfi slowly warmed into her old self, but Videy, as usual, was
silent, preoccupied, and meditative. When we got within sight of the bungalow, however, the
lights flashing from the windows made the long low building look very imposing. Pharaoh, the
bantam cock which Sinfi was carrying, began to crow, but silence again fell upon Sinfi.

Panuel, when we entered the bungalow, said he was very tired and would like to go to bed. I
had perceived by the glossy appearance of his skin (which was of the colour of beeswaxed mahogany)
and the benevolent dimple in his check that, although far from being intoxicated, he was 'market-merry';
and as the two sisters also seemed tired, I took the party at once to their bedrooms.

'Dordi! what a gran' room,' said Sinfi, in a hushed voice, as I opened the door of the one
allotted to her. 'Don't you mind, Videy, when you an' me fust slep' like two kairengros?' [Footnote]

[Footnote: House-dwellers.]

'No, I don't,' said Videy sharply.

'It was at Llangollen Fair,' continued Sinfi, her frank face beaming like a great child's;
'two little chavies we was then. An' don't you mind, Videy, how we both on us cried when they
put us to bed, 'cause we was afeard the ceilin' would fall down on us?'

Videy made no answer, but tossed up her head and looked around to see whether there was a grinning
servant within earshot.

'Good-night, Sinfi,' I said, shaking her hand; 'and now, Videy, I will show you your room.'

'Oh, but Videy an' me sleeps togither, don't we?'

'Certainly, if you wish it,' I replied.

'She's afeard o' the "mullos,"' said Videy scornfully, as she went and stood before an old
engraved Venetian mirror I had picked up at Chester, admiring her own perfect little figure
reflected therein. 'Ever since she's know'd you she's bin afeard o' mullos, and keeps Pharaoh
with her o' nights; the mullos never come where there's a crowin' cock.'

I did not look at Sinfi, but bent my eyes upon the mirror, where, several inches above the
reflex of Videy's sarcastic face, shone the features of Sinfi, perfectly cut as those of a
Greek statue.

'It's the dukkerin' dook [Footnote] as she's afeard on,' said Videy, smiling in the glass till
her face seemed one wicked glitter of scarlet lips and pearly teeth. 'An' yit there ain't no
dukkerin' dook, an' there ain't no mullos.'

[Footnote: The prophesying ghost.]

Among the elaborately-engraved flowers and stars at the top of the mirror was the representation
of an angel grasping a musical instrument.

'Look, look!' said Sinfi, 'I never know'd afore that angels played the crwth. I wonder whether
they can draw a livin' mullo up to the clouds, same as my crwth can draw one to Snowdon?'

I bade them good-night, and joined Panuel at the door.

I was conducting him along the corridor to his room when the door was reopened and Sinfi's
head appeared, as bright as ever, and then a beckoning hand.

'Reia,' said she, when I had returned to the door, 'I want to whisper a word in your ear';
and she pulled my head towards the door and whispered, 'Don't tell nobody about that 'ere jewelled
trúshul in the church vaults at Raxton. We shall be going down there at the fair time, so don't
tell nobody.'

'But you surely are not afraid of your father,' I whispered in reply.

'No, no,' said she, bringing her lips so close to my face that I felt the breath steaming round
my ear. 'Not daddy--Videy!--Daddy can't keep a secret for five minutes. It's her I'm afeared on.'

I had scarcely left the door two yards behind me when I heard the voices of the sisters in
loud altercation. I heard Sinfi exclaim, 'I sha'n't tell you what I said to him, so now! It
was somethin' atween him an' me.'

'There they are ag'in,' said Panuel, bending his head sagely round and pointing with his thumb
over his shoulder to the door; 'at it ag'in! Them two chavies o' mine are allus a-quarrellin'
now, an' it's allus about the same thing. 'Tain't the quarrellin' as I mind so much,--women
an' sparrows, they say, must cherrup an' quarrel,--but they needn't allus keep a-nag-naggin'
about the same thing.'

'What's their subject, Panuel?'  I asked.

'Subjick? Why you, in course. That's what the subjick is. When women quarrels you may allus
be sure there's a chap somewheres about.'

By this time we had entered his bedroom: he went and sat upon the bed, and without looking
round him began unlacing his 'highlows.' I had often on previous occasions remarked that Panuel,
who, when sober, was as silent as Videy, and looked like her in the face, became, the moment
that he passed into 'market-merriness,' as frank and communicative as Sinfi, and (what was
more inexplicable) looked as much like Sinfi as he had previously looked like Videy.

'How can I be the subject of their quarrels?' I said, listlessly enough, for I scarcely at
first followed his words.

'How? Ain't you a chap?'

'Undoubtedly, Panuel, I am a chap.'

'When women quarrels there's allus a chap somewheres about, in course there is. But look ye
here, Mr. Aylwin, the fault ain't Sinfi's, not a bit of it. It's Videy's, wi' her dog-in-the-manger
ways. She's a back-bred un,' he said, giving me a knowing wink as he pulled off his calf-skin
waistcoat and tossed it on to a chair at the further end of the room with a certainty of aim
that would have been marvellous, even had he been entirely free from market-merriness.

I had before observed that Panuel when market-merry always designated Videy the 'back-bred
un, that took a'ter Shuri's blazin' ole dad!' When sober his views of heredity changed; the
'back-bred un' was Sinfi.

After breakfast next morning it was agreed that Panuel and Videy should walk to the Place to
see that everything was going on well, while Sinfi and I should remain in the bungalow. I observed
from the distance that Videy had loitered behind her father on the Capel Curig road. I saw
a dark shadow of anger pass over Sinfi's face, and I soon understood what was causing it. The
daughter of the well-to-do Panuel Lovell and my guest was accosting a tourist with, 'Let me
tell you your fortune, my pretty gentleman. Give the poor Gypsy a sixpence for luck, my gentleman.'

The bungalow delighted Sinfi. 'It's just like a great livin'-waggin, only more comfortable,'
said she.

We spent the entire morning and afternoon there, and much of the next two days. It certainly
seemed to me that her mere presence was an immense stimulus to memory in vitalising its one image.

'What's the use o' us a-keepin' a-talkin' about Winnie?' Sinfi said to me one day. 'It on'y
makes you fret. You skears me sometimes; for your eyes are a-gettin' jis' as sad-lookin' as
Mr. D'Arcy's eyes, an' it's all along o' fret-tin'.'

I persuaded her to stay with me while Panuel and Videy went on to Chester, for she could both
soothe and amuse me.

III

Those who might suppose that Sinfi Lovell's lack of education would be a barrier against our
sympathy, know little or nothing of real sorrow--little or nothing of the human heart--little
or nothing of the stricken soul that looks out on man and his conventions through the light
of an intolerable pain.

I now began to read and study as well as paint. But so absorbed was I in my struggle with Fenella
Stanley and Romany superstitions, that the only subject which could distract me from memory
was that of hereditary influence--prepotency of transmission in relation to races. Though Sinfi
could neither read nor write, she loved to sit by my side and, caressing Pharaoh, to watch
me as I read or wrote. To her there evidently seemed something mysterious and uncanny in writing,
something like 'penning dukkering.' It seemed to her, I think, a much more remarkable accomplishment
than that of painting. And as to reading, I am not sure that the satirical Videy was entirely
wrong in saying that Sinfi believed that books 'could talk jis' like men and women.' Not a
word would she speak, save when she now and then bent down her head to whisper to Pharaoh when
that little warrior was inclined to give a disturbing chuckle, or to shake his wattles. And
when at last she and Pharaoh got wearied by the prolonged silence, she would begin to murmur
in a tone of playful satire to the restless bird, 'Mum, mum, Pharaoh. He's too hoot of a mush
to rocker a choori chavi.' [Hush, hush, Pharaoh. He's too proud to speak to a poor child.]

Of course there was immense curiosity about my life at the bungalow, not only among the visitors
at the Capel Curig Hotel, but among the Welsh residents; and rarely did the weekly papers come
out without some paragraph about me. As a result of this, some of the London papers reproduced
the paragraphs, and built upon their gossip columns of a positively offensive nature. In a
paper which I will for convenience call the London Satirist appeared a paragraph which some
one cut out of the columns of the paper and posted to me. It ran thus:

'THE ECCENTRIC AYLWINS.--The power of heredity, which has much exercised the mind of Balzac,
has never been more strikingly exemplified than in the case of the great family of the Aylwins.
It is matter of common knowledge that some generations ago one of the Aylwins married a Gypsy.
This fact did not, however, prevent his branch from being respectable, and receiving the name
of the proud Aylwins; and the Gypsy blood remained entirely in abeyance until the present generation. At
the house of one of our common friends, I met--------, and so little did I imagine that he had
escaped all the revolutionary perils to which he had been exposed, that I could almost have
supposed myself in the regions of the dead, or that he had been permitted to quit them, for his
being alive scarcely seemed less miraculous or incredible. As I had not seen him since 1792,
he gave me a very interesting detail of his adventures, and his testimony corroborates the opinion
generally entertained by those who knew the late King, that he had
much personal courage, and that he lost his crown and his life by
political indecision, and an humane, but ill-judged, unwillingness
to reduce his enemies by force. While wandering with
me along the sands on the eve of that dreadful day when I lost her, she had declared that even
in heaven she could not rest without me, nor did I understand how she could. For by this time
my instincts had fully taught me that there is a kind of love so intense that no power in the
universe--not death itself--is strong enough to sever it from its object. I knew that although
true spiritual love, as thus understood, scarcely exists among Englishmen, and even among Englishwomen
is so rare that the capacity for feeling it is a kind of genius, this genius was hers. Sooner
or later I said to myself, "She will and must manifest herself!"'

I looked up from the book and saw both Sinfi and Pharaoh gazing at me.

'Sinfi,' I said, 'what were Winnie's favourite places among the hills? Where was she most in
the habit of roaming when she stayed with your people?'

'If I ain't told you that often enough it's a pity, brother,' she said. 'What do you think,
Pharaoh?'

Pharaoh expressed his acquiescence in the satire by clapping his wings and crowing at me contemptuously.

'The place I think she liked most of all wur that very pool where she and you breakfasted together
on that morning.'

'Were there no other favourite places?'

'Yes, there wur the Fairy Glen; she wur very fond of that. And there wur the Swallow Falls;
she wur very fond of them. And there wur a place on the Beddgelert pathway, up from the Carnarvon
road, about two miles from Beddgelert. There is a great bit of rock there where she used to
love to sit and look across towards Anglesey. And talking about that place reminds me, brother,
that our people and the Boswells and a lot more are camped on the Carnarvon road just where
the pathway up Snowdon begins. And I wur told yesterday by a 'quaintance of mine as I seed
outside the bungalow that daddy and Videy had joined them. Shouldn't we go and see 'em?'

This exactly fitted in with the thoughts and projects that had suddenly come to me, and it
was arranged that we should start for the encampment next morning.

As we were leaving the bungalow the next day, I said to Sinfi, 'You are not taking your crwth.'

'Crwth! we sha'n't want that.'

'Your people are very fond of music, you know. Your father is very fond of a musical tea.'

'So he is. I'll take it,' said Sinfi.

IV

When we reached the camping-place on the Carnarvon road we found a very jolly party. Panuel
had had some very successful dealings, and he was slightly market-merry. He said to Videy,
'Make the tea, Vi, and let Sinfi hev' hern fust, so that she can play on the Welsh fiddle while
the rest on us are getting ourn. It'll seem jist like Chester Fair with Jim Burton scrapin'
in the dancin' booth to heel and toe.'

Sinfi soon finished her tea, and began to play some merry dancing airs, which set Rhona Boswell's
limbs twittering till she spilt her tea in her lap. Then, laughing at the catastrophe, she
sprang up saying, 'I'll dance myself dry,' and began dancing on the sward.

After tea was over the party got too boisterous for Sinfi's taste, and she said to me, 'Let's
slip away, brother, and go up the pathway, and I'll show you Winnie's favourite place.'

This proposal met my wishes entirely, and under the pretence of going to look at something
on the Carnarvon road we managed to escape from the party, Sinfi still carrying her crwth and
bow. She then led the way up a slope green with grass and moss. We did not talk till we had
passed the slate quarry.

The evening was so fine and the scene was so lovely that Sinfi's very body seemed to drink
it in and become intoxicated with beauty. After we had left the slate quarries behind, the
panorama became more entrancing at every yard we walked. Cwellyn Lake and Valley, Moel Hebog,
y Garnedd, the glittering sea, Anglesey, Holyhead Hill, all seemed to be growing in gold and
glory out of masses of sunset mist.

When at last we reached the edge of a steep cliff, with the rocky forehead of Snowdon in front,
and the shining llyns of Cwm y Clogwyn below, Sinfi stopped.

'This is the place,' said she, sitting down on a mossy mound, 'where Winnie loved to come and
look down.'

After Sinfi and I had sat on this mound for a few minutes, I asked her to sing and play one
or two Welsh airs which I knew to be especial favourites of hers, and then, with much hesitancy,
I asked her to play and sing the same song or incantation which had become associated for ever
with my first morning on the hills.

'You mean the Welsh dukkerin' gillie,' said Sinfi, looking, with an expression that might have
been either alarm or suspicion, into my face.

'Yes.'

'You've been a-thinkin' all this while, brother, that I don't know why you asked me about Winnie's
favourite places on Snowdon, and why you wanted me to take my crwth to the camp. But I've been
a-thinkin' about it, and I know now why you did, and I know why you wants me to play the Welsh
dukkerin' gillie here. It's because you heerd me say that if I were to play that dukkerin'
gillie on Snowdon in the places she was fond on, I could tell for sartin whether Winnie wur
alive or dead. If she wur alive her livin' mullo 'ud follow the crwth. But I ain't a-goin'
to do it.'

'Why not, Sinfi?'

'Because my mammy used to say it ain't right to make use o' the real dukkerin' for Gorgios,
and I've heerd her say that if them as had the real dukkerin'--the dukkerin' for the Romanies--used
it for the Gorgios, or if they turned it into a sport and a plaything, it 'ud leave 'em altogether.
And that ain't the wust on it, for when the real dukkerin' leaves you it turns into a kind
of a cuss, and it brings on the bite of the Romany Sap. [Footnote] Even now, Hal, I sometimes
o' nights feels the bite here of the Romany Sap,' pointing to her bosom, 'and it's all along
o' you, Hal, it's all along o' you, because I seem to be breaking the promise about Gorgios
I made to my poor mammy.'

[Footnote: The Romany serpent, Conscience.]

'The Romany Sap? You mean the Romany conscience, I suppose, Sinfi: you mean the trouble a Romany
feels when he has broken the Romany laws, when he has done wrong according to the Romany notions
of right and wrong. But you are innocent of all wrong-doing.'

'I don't know nothin' about conscience,' said she, 'I mean the Romany Sap. Don't you mind when
we was a-goin' up Snowdon arter Winifred that mornin'? I told you as the rocks, an' the trees,
an' the winds, an' the waters cuss us when we goes ag'in the Romany blood an' ag'in the dukkerin'
dook. The cuss that the rocks, an' the trees, an' the winds, an' the waters makes, an' sends
it out to bite the burk [Footnote] o' the Romany as does wrong--that's the Romany Sap.'

[Footnote:  Breast.]

'You mean conscience, Sinfi.'

'No, I don't mean nothink o' the sort; the Romanies ain't got no conscience, an' if the Gorgios
has, it's precious little good as it does 'em, as far as I can see. But the Romanies has got
the Romany Sap. Everything wrong as you does, such as killin' a Romany, or cheatin' a Romany,
or playin' the lubbany with a Gorgio, or breakin' your oath to your mammy as is dead, or goin'
ag'in the dukkerin' dook, an' sich like, every one o' these things turns into the Romany Sap.'

'You're speaking of conscience, Sinfi.'

'Every one o' them wrong things as you does seems to make out o' the burk o' the airth a sap
o' its own as has got its own pertickler stare, but allus it's a hungry sap, Hal, an' a sap
wi' bloody fangs. An' it's a sap as follows the bad un's feet, Hal--follows the bad un's feet
wheresomever they goes; it's a sap as goes slippin' thro' the dews o' the grass on the brightest
mornin', an' dodges round the trees in the sweetest evenin', an' goes wriggle, wriggle across
the brook jis' when you wants to enjoy yourself, jis' when you wants to stay a bit on the steppin'-stuns
to enjoy the sight o' the dear little minnows a-shootin' atween the water-creases. God bless her,
did'e look'ow she flickered up when she seed faither's flags a flyin'?
""

Theer's a right way an'a wrong o'doin'weddin's, Sarah, an'' tedn'a question whether a gal's better
pleased or no. It's all wan to a dead corpse whether'tis took to
the yard in a black hearse wi'plumes, same as what us shall be, or whether'tis
borne'pon wan o'them four'anded stretchers used for carryin'fishin'nets,
same as poor Albert Vallack was a while back-- but wan way's proper
an't'other'edn'. "" They'm savin'the money for the feed.

Theer's gwaine to be a deal o'clome liftin'at Perm's cottage bimebye, "said another of the party."
No honeymoon neither, so I hear tell, "added Mrs. Tregenza. That's the Romany
Sap, Hal, an' I won't deny as I sometimes feel its bite pretty hard here' (pointing to her
breast) 'when I thinks what I promised my poor mammy, an' how I kep' my word to her, when I
let a Gorgio come under our tents.' [Footnote]

[Footnote: To prevent misconceptions, it may be well to say that the paraphrase of Sinfi's
description of the 'Romany Sap,' which appeared in the writer's reminiscences of George Borrow,
was written long after the main portion of the present narrative.]

'You don't mean,' I said, 'that it is a real flesh-and-blood sap, but a sap that you think
you see and feel.'

'Hal,' said Sinfi, 'a Romany's feelin's ain't like a Gorgio's. A Romany can feel the bite of
a sap whether it's made o' flesh an' blood or not, and the Romany Sap's all the wuss for not
bein' a flesh-and-blood sap, for it's a cuss hatched in the airth; it's everythink a-cussin'
on ye--the airth, an' the sky, an' the dukkerin' dook.'

Her manner was so solemn, her grand simplicity was so pathetic, that I felt I could not urge
her to do what her conscience told her was wrong. But soon that which no persuasion of mine
would have effected the grief and disappointment expressed by my face achieved.

'Hal,' she said, 'I sometimes feel as if I'd bear the bite o' all the Romany saps as ever wur
hatched to give you a little comfort. Besides, it's for a true Romany arter all--it's for myself
quite as much as for you that I'm a-goin' to see whether Winnie is alive or dead. If she's
dead we sha'n't see nothink, and perhaps if she's in one o' them fits o' hern we sha'n't see
nothink; but if she's alive and herself ag'in, I believe I shall see--p'raps we shall both
see--her livin' mullo.'

She then drew the bow across the crwth. The instrument at first seemed to chatter with her
agitation. I waited in breathless suspense. At last there came clearly from her crwth the wild
air I had already heard on Snowdon. Then the sound of the instrument ceased save for the drone
of the two bottom strings, and Sinfi's voice leapt out and  I heard the words of what she called
the Welsh dukkering gillie.

As I listened and looked over the wide-stretching panorama before me, I felt my very flesh
answering to every vibration; and when the song stopped and I suddenly heard Sinfi call out,
'Look, brother!' I felt that my own being, physical and mental, had passed into a new phase,
and that resistance to some mighty power governing my blood was impossible.

'Look straight afore you, brother, and you'll see Winnie's face. She's alive, brother, and
the dukkeripen of the Golden Hand will come true, and mine will come true. Oh, mammy, mammy!'

At first I saw nothing, but after a while two blue eyes seemed gazing at me as through a veil
of evening haze. They were looking straight at me, those beloved eyes--they were sparkling
with childish happiness as they had sparkled through the vapours of the pool when she walked
towards me that morning on the brink of Knockers' Llyn.

Starting up and throwing up my arms, I cried, 'My darling!' The vision vanished. Then turning
round, I looked at Sinfi. She seemed listening to a voice I could not hear--her face was pale
with emotion. I could hear her breath coming and going heavily; her bosom rose and fell, and
the necklace of coral and gold coins around her throat trembled like a shuddering snake while
she murmured, 'My dukkeripen! Yes, mammy, I've gone ag'in you and broke my promise, and this
is the very Gorgio as you meant.'

'Call the vision back,' I said; 'play the air again, dear Sinfi.'

She sprang in front of me, and seizing one of my wrists, she gazed in my face, and said, 'Yes,
it's "dear Sinfi"! You wants dear Sinfi to fiddle the Gorgie's livin' mullo back to you.'

I looked into the dark eyes, lately so kind. I did not know them. They were dilated and grown
red-brown in hue, like the scorched colour of a North African lion's mane, and along the eyelashes
a phosphorescent light seemed to play. What did it mean? Was it indeed Sinfi standing there,
rigid as a column, with a clenched brown fist drawn up to the broad, heaving breast, till the
knuckles shone white, as if about to strike me? What made her throw out her arms as if struggling
desperately with the air, or with some unseen foe who was binding her with chains?

I stood astounded, watching her, as she gradually calmed down and became herself again; but
I was deeply perplexed and deeply troubled.

After a while she said, 'Let's go back to "the Place,"' and without waiting for my acquiescence,
she strode along down the path towards Beddgelert.

