 In any
event, I have burned my bridges behind me, and whether I ever become a resident of Pfleugersville
or not, I have already become a resident of Sirius XXI."

Judith Darrow was silent for some time. Then, "This morning," she said, "I wanted to ask you
to join us, but I couldn't for two reasons. The first was your commitment to sell our houses,
the second was my bitterness toward men. You have eliminated the first, and the second seems
suddenly inane." She raised her eyes. "Philip, please join us. I want you to."

Zarathustra, whose real name was Siddenon Phenphonderill, left them standing there in each
other's arms and trotted down the street and out of town. He covered the ground in easy lopes
that belied his three hundred and twenty-five years, and soon he arrived at the Meeting Place.
The mayors of the other villages had been awaiting him since early morning and were shifting
impatiently on their haunches. When he clambered up on the rostrum they extended their audio-appendages
and retractile fingers and accorded him a round of applause. He extended his own "hands" and
held them up for silence, then, retracting them again, he seated himself before the little
lectern and began his report, the idiomatic translation of which follows forthwith:

"Gentlemen, my apologies for my late arrival. I will touch upon the circumstances that were
responsible for it presently.

"To get down to the matter uppermost in your minds: Yes, the experiment was a success, and
if you will use your psycho-transmutative powers to remodel your villages along the lines my
constituents and I remodeled ours and to build enough factories to give your 'masters' that
sense of self-sufficiency so essential to their well-being, and if you will 'plant' your disassembled
Multiple Möbius-Knot Dynamos in such a way that the resultant fields will be ascribed to accidental
causes, you will have no more trouble attracting personnel than we did. Just make sure that
your 'masters' quarters are superior to your own, and that you behave like dogs in their presence.
And when you fabricate your records concerning your mythical departed masters, see to it that
they do not conflict with the records we fabricated concerning ours. It would be desirable
indeed if our Sirian-human society could be based on less deceitful grounds than these, but
the very human attitude we are exploiting renders this impossible at the moment. I hate to
think of the resentment we would incur were we to reveal that, far from being the mere dogs
we seem to be, we are capable of mentally transmuting natural resources into virtually anything
from a key to a concert hall, and I hate even more to think of the resentment we would incur
were we to reveal that, for all our ability in the inanimate field, we have never been able
to materialize so much as a single blade of grass in the animate field, and that our reason
for coincidentalizing the planet Earth and creating our irresistible little utopias stems not
from a need for companionship but from a need for gardeners. However, you will find that all
of this can be ironed out eventually through the human children, with whom you will be thrown
into daily contact and whom you will find to possess all of their parents' abiding love for
us and none of their parents' superior attitude toward us. To a little child, a dog is a companion,
not a pet; an equal, not an inferior--and the little children of today will be the grown-ups
of tomorrow.

