"Mr. Carlyle preferred a private wedding, but I insisted upon a ceremony at the church where
Mr. Wright officiated, and immediately telegraphed to Edith, requesting her presence as bridesmaid,
and offering to provide her outfit and defray all expenses, if she would accompany us to Europe.
My betrothed bit his lip, and objected; but on this point, at least, I was firm, and assured
him I would not be married unless Edith could be with me. She wrote, declining my invitation
to Europe, but came to New York, the day of my wedding. When I look back at what followed,
I have a vague, confused feeling, similar to that which results from taking opium. Mr. Carlyle
had positively interdicted my taking Elsie to Europe, assuring me that his wife should not
be in leading-strings to a spoiled and presumptuous nurse, and promising me that, when we returned
to America, she might occupy the position of housekeeper in our establishment. Absorbed by
my own supreme happiness, I scarcely saw Edith until we were dressed for the ceremony, and
when she came and leaned against the table where the bridal presents were arranged, I noticed
that she was pale and much agitated, but ascribed her emotion to grief at my approaching departure.
Several of my schoolmates officiated as bridesmaids, and a large party assembled at the church
to witness the marriage. Mr. Carlyle was a great favorite in society, and his friends were
invited to the wedding breakfast at the parsonage. It was on the bright morning of my sixteenth
birthday, when I stood before the altar and listened to and uttered the words that made me
a wife. Every syllable, every intonation, of the minister's voice is branded on my memory as
with a red-hot iron: 'Wilt thou have this man to thy wedded husband, to live together after
God's ordinance, in the holy estate of matrimony? Wilt thou obey him, serve him, love, honor,
and keep him, in sickness and in health; and forsaking all others, keep thee only unto him,
so long as ye both shall live?' And there, before the altar, with the stained glass making
a rainbow behind the pulpit, I answered, 'I will.' Oh, Dr. Grey, pity me! pity me!"

A cry of anguish escaped her, and she extended her arms until her hands rested on her companion's
shoulder.

In silence he bent his head, and put his lips to the tightly clasped fingers.

"Tell me, sir,--if that vow means that man may make a plaything of God's statutes? If it binds
for one hour, does it not bind while life lasts?"

"'So long as ye both shall live,'" answered Dr. Grey, solemnly; and he gently removed her hand,
and drew himself a little farther from her.

She was too painfully engrossed by sad reminiscences to notice the action, and resumed her
narrative.

"There was a gay party at the breakfast, and I could not remove my fascinated eyes from the
radiant face of my husband, who had never seemed half so princely as now, when he was wholly
my own. Once he bent his handsome head to mine, and whispered, 'La Peregrina,' the pet name
he had given me, because he averred that, in his estimation, my love was worth as many ducats
as that celebrated pearl of Philip. 'La Peregrina,' indeed! Ah! he melted it in gall and hemlock,
and drained it at his wedding feast. My heart was so overflowing with happiness that I slipped
my fingers into his, and, in answer to his fond epithet, whispered, 'Maurice, my king.'"

The speaker was silent for a moment, and an expression of disgust and scorn usurped the place
of mournfulness.

"Dr. Grey, I deserved my punishment, for no Aztec ever worshipped his stone God more devoutly
than I did my black-eyed, smooth-lipped idol. 'Thou shalt have no other gods before me.' Ah!
my 'graven image' seemed so marvellously godlike that I bowed down before it; and there, in
the midst of my adoration, the curse of idolatry smote me. Half bewildered by the rapture that
made my heart throb almost to suffocation, I stole away from the guests and hid myself in the
small hot-house attached to Mr. Wright's study, longing for a little quiet that would enable
me to realize all the blessedness of my lot. With childish glee I toyed with my title,--with
my new name,--Maurice Carlyle's wife--Evelyn Carlyle! How pretty it sounded,--how holy it seemed!
My future was as brilliant as that vast enchanted hall into which poor Nouronihar was enticed
through her insane love for Vathek, and, like hers, my illusion was dispelled by a decree that
strangled hope in my heart, and enveloped it in flames."

Here the flood of melancholy memories drowned her words, and, crossing her arms on the stone
balustrade, she sat silent and moody.

In the dusky, crepuscular light, Dr. Grey could no longer discern the emotions that printed
themselves so legibly on her countenance; but the outline of her face, and the listless, hopeless
droop of her figure, curved between him and the dun waste of waters.

Overhead a few dim, hazy stars shivered on the ragged skirts of trailing gray clouds, and the
ceaseless rustle of the shuddering poplars formed a mournful accompaniment to the muttering
of the ocean, whose weary waves were sobbing themselves to rest, like scourged but unconquered
children.

"I thank you for your patience, Dr. Grey. You forbear to hurry me, even as you would shrink
from rudely jostling or pushing forward the mattock which slowly digs into a grave,--removing
human mould and crumbling coffin, searching for the skeleton beneath. Exhuming human bones
is melancholy work, but sadder still is the mission of one who disinters the ashes of a woman's
love, hope, and faith. Across the centre of Mr. Wright's hot-house ran a light trellis of fine
lattice-work cut into an arch and covered with the dense luxuriant foliage of the bignonia
trained over it. Behind this screen I had ensconced my happy self, and sat idly bruising the
leaves of a rose geranium that chanced to be near me, when my blissful reverie was interrupted
by the sound of that voice which had stolen my heart, my reason, my common sense. Believing
that he had missed and was searching for his bride, I rose and peeped through the glossy leaves
of the clambering vine that divided us. Not four feet distant stood my husband of an hour,
with his arms clasped fondly around Edith, who, in a broken, passionate voice, denounced his
perfidy and heartlessness. Vehemently he pleaded for an opportunity to exculpate himself, and
there, tearful and sobbing, with her head on his bosom, my friend listened to an explanation
that was destined to enlighten more than one person. From his lips I learned that he had become
entangled in certain financial difficulties that involved his honor as a gentleman; he had
used money to enable him to embark in a speculation which, if successful, would have afforded
him the means of marrying in accordance with the dictates of his heart; but, like the majority
of nefarious schemes, it failed signally, and fear of detection, and the absolute necessity
of obtaining a large amount of money, had goaded him to the desperate step of sacrificing his
happiness and offering his hand to me. He strained her to his breast, kissed her repeatedly,
and impiously called God to witness that he loved her, and her only, truly, tenderly; that
never for an instant had his affection wandered from her, 'his beautiful, idolized darling.'
He bitterly denounced his folly, cursed the hour that had thrown me and my fortune in his path,
and swore that he utterly loathed and despised the silly child whose wealth alone had made
her his dupe; and, as he flatteringly expressed it, his 'hated and intolerable incubus.' He
had intended to spare her and himself the agony of this hour,--had determined to remain always
in Europe, where he could escape the mocking contrast of his bride and his beloved. With indescribable
scorn, and a wonderful fertility of derisive epithets, he held me up, as on the point of a
scalpel, and proved the utter impossibility of his having been influenced by any other than
the most grossly mercenary motives; while, between the bursts of invective against me, he lavished
upon her a hundred fond, tender, passionate phrases of endearment that had never been applied
to me. Pressing one hand on her head, he raised the other, and called Heaven to witness, that,
although the world might regard him as the husband of 'that sallow, gray-eyed, silly girl,'
whose gold alone had bought his name, the only woman he could ever love was his own beautiful
Edith; and, should death come to his aid and free him from the detested bond that linked him
to the heiress, he swore he would not lose a day in claiming the lovely wife that fate had
denied him. All this, and much more, which I have not now the requisite patience to recapitulate,
fell on my ears, startling me more painfully than the trumpet-blast of the Last Judgment will
ever do. Standing there, in my costly bridal robe, I listened to the revelation that blotted
out all sun and moon and stars from my life,--that made earth a dismal Sheol and the future
a howling desolation,--a dreary wilderness of woe. In my agony and shame I clenched my hands
so savagely, one upon the other, that my diamond betrothal-ring cut sharply into the quivering
flesh, and blood-drops oozed and dripped on my shining gossamer veil and white velvet dress.
In a moment, in the twinkling of an eye, my whole nature was metamorphosed; and my coming years
swept in panoramic vision before me, beckoning me to the prompt performance of a stern and
humiliating duty. The blood in my veins seemed to hiss and bubble like a seething cauldron,
and my heart fired with a hate for which language has no name, no garb, no provision; but my
brain kept faithful guard, and reason calmly pointed out my future path. When Mr. Carlyle ended
his tirade against me and his curses on his own folly, I moved forward into the arch and confronted
my dethroned and defiled gods. If the tedious years of the primitive patriarchs could be allotted
to me they would never suffice to efface the picture that lingers in deep, hot lines on my
memory, and pursues me as ruthlessly as the avenging cross followed and tortured the miserable
fugitive in Gustave Doré's 'Le Juif errant,' or the Eyeless Christ that proved a haunting Nemesis
to the Empress Irene. Edith's lovely face was on his bosom, and his false, handsome lips were
pressed to hers. So, I met my husband and my dearest friend, one hour after the utterance of
vows that were perhaps still echoing in the courts of heaven. Such spectacles of human perfidy
are the real Medusas that Gorgonize trusting, tender, throbbing hearts, and in view of this
one I laughed aloud,--laughed so unnaturally that it was no marvel I was called a maniac. At
sight of my desperate white face Edith shrieked and fainted, and Maurice blanched and stammered
and cowered. Without a word of comment or recrimination I silently passed on to my own room,
where Elsie was waiting to clothe me in my travelling-suit. In three hours the steamer would
sail, and I had little leisure for resolution and execution. Summoning the lawyer to whose
care my estate was entrusted, I requested him to call Mr. Wright and Mr. Carlyle into the dressing-room
that adjoined my apartment, and there I held an audience with the three who were most interested
in my career. Briefly I explained what had occurred, and announced my determination, then and
there, to separate forever from the man who could never be more than my nominal husband. I
told them I held marriage, next to the Lord's Supper, the holiest sacrament instituted by God,
but mine had been an infamous mockery, an unpardonable sin against me, and an insult to Heaven,
whose blessing could never rest upon it. Marriage, without sanctifying love, was unhallowed,
was a transgression of divine law, and a crime against my womanhood which neither God nor man
should forgive. Maurice Carlyle had perjured himself,--had never loved the woman who went with
him to the altar,--and the affection that had stirred my heart one hour before, was now as
dead as the Pharaohs hidden for centuries under the pyramids. We two, who had sworn to love,
honor, and cherish one another, now hated and despised each other beyond all possibility of
expression; and I considered it a heinous sin to perpetuate the awful mockery, to cling to
the letter of a contract that bade defiance to every impulse of heart and soul,--to every dictate
of reason and decree of conscience. Wedded lives and divided hearts I believed a crime, and
while I admitted that man could not put asunder those whom God's statutes joined together,
I contended that Mr. Carlyle's perjury rendered it sinful for him and me to reside under the
same roof. I could not recognize the validity of divorces, for human hands could not unlink
God's fetters, and man's law had no power to free either of us from the bonds we had voluntarily
assumed in the invoked presence of Jehovah. I would neither accept nor permit a divorce, for,
in my estimation, it was not worth the paper that framed it, and was a species of sacrilegious
trifling; but I would never live as the wife of a man who had repeatedly declared he had not
an atom of affection for me. Under some circumstances I deemed separation a woman's duty, and
while I fully comprehended the awful import of the vow 'Till death us do part,' and denied
that human legislators could free us, or annul the marriage, I was resolved, while life lasted,
to consider myself a duped, an unloved, but a lawful wife,--a woman consecrated by solemn oaths
that no human action could cancel. Since money was the bait, I was willing to divide my fortune
as the price of a quiet separation; and though from that hour I intended to quit his presence
forever, and regard the tie that linked us as merely nominal, I would allow him a liberal income
until I attained my majority and would liquidate all his present debts. To your imagination,
Dr. Grey, I leave the details of what ensued,--my guardian's remorseful grief, my lawyer's
wonder and expostulation, Mr. Carlyle's confusion, chagrin, and rage. He pleaded, argued, threatened;
but he might as well have attempted to catch and restrain in the hollow of his hand the steady
sweep of Niagara, as hope to change my purpose. My terms were fixed, and I gave him permission
to tell the world what he chose concerning this strange denouement of the wedding feast. If
I could only go away at once, I cared not what the public thought or said; and finally, finding
me no longer a yielding child, but a desperate, stern, relentless woman, my terms were acceded
to. Briefly we discussed the legal provisions, and I signed some hastily prepared papers that
settled a bountiful annuity upon Mr. Carlyle. My trunks were sent to the steamer, the carriage
was brought to the door, and in the presence of my guardian and the lawyer, I announced my
desire never to look again upon the man who had so completely blighted my life. In silence
I laid upon the table my betrothal and wedding rings, and the sparkling diamond cross that
had constituted my bridal present. No word of reproach passed my lips, for women love when
they upbraid, and only aching, fond hearts furnish stinging rebukes; but I hated and scorned
the author of my ruin too utterly to indulge in crimination and reproach. So we two, who had
just been pronounced man and wife, who had clasped hands and linked hearts and lives until
we should stumble into the tomb,--we, Maurice Carlyle and Evelyn, his bride, four hours married,
stood up and looked at each other for the last time. During the interview I had addressed no
remark to him, and the last words I ever uttered to him were contained in that sentence fondly
whispered when he bent over me at the table, 'Maurice, my king.' As I bade adieu to my guardian,
and paused before the princely figure whom the world called my husband, our eyes met, and he
flushed, and muttered, 'You will rue your rashness.' Silently I looked on the handsome features
that had so suddenly grown loathsome to me, and he snatched my wedding ring from the table
and held it appealingly towards me, saying remorsefully, 'Evelyn, my wife, forgive your wretched
husband!' Without a word, or a touch of his outstretched hands, I turned and went down to the
carriage, where my faithful nurse sat weeping and waiting. One hour later, the vessel swung
from her moorings, and Elsie and I were soon at sea. A girl only sixteen, four hours married,
separated forever from husband and friends,--without hope or faith in either human or heavenly
things,--hating, with most intolerable intensity, the man whose name she had just assumed,
and to whom she felt indissolubly bound, in accordance with the vow 'So long as ye both shall
live.'"

Out of the tossing, moaning sea, the moon had risen slowly, breaking through a rent scarf of
cloud that barred her solemn, white disc, and silvering the foam of the racing waves that seemed
to reflect the glittering fringe of the scudding vapor in the chill vault above them. There
was no mellow radiance, no golden lustre such as southern moons are wont to shed, but a weird,
fitful glitter on sea and land, that now shone with startling vividness, and anon waned, until
sombre shadows seemed stalking in spectral ranks from some distant, gloomy ocean lair. It was
one of those melancholy nights when the supernatural realm threatened to impinge upon the physical,
that shuddered and shrank from the contact,--when the atmosphere gave vague hints of ghostly
denizens, and every passing breeze seemed laden with sepulchral damps and vibrating with sepulchral
sounds.

Mrs. Gerome sat erect, with her hands resting on the balustrade, and under that mysteriously
white moon her pearl-pale face looked as hopelessly cold and rigid as any Persepolitan sphinx,
that nightly fronts the immemorial stars which watch the ruined tombs of Chilminar.

Raising her fingers to her forehead, she lifted and shook a band of the shining white hair,
and resumed her narration, in the same steady, passionless tone.

"These gray locks were the fruit of that bridal day, for, on the afternoon that we sailed,
I was taken very ill with what was called congestion of the brain,--was unconscious throughout
the voyage, and when we reached Liverpool, my hair, once so black and glossy, was as you see
it now. Ah! how often, since that time, have I heard poor Elsie mourning over my mother's untimely
death, and quoting that ancient superstition, 'You should never wean a child while trees are
in blossom; otherwise it will have gray hair.' Mr. Wright was so prostrated by grief at what
had occurred, that he survived my departure only a few weeks; and at his death, Mr. Carlyle
attempted to seize and control my estate. Urging the plea of my minority, he insisted upon
assuming the charge of my property, and in order to consummate his avaricious designs, and
screen his name from opprobrium, he told the world that I was hopelessly insane; and that the
discovery of this fact, one hour after his marriage, had induced him to send me abroad under
the care of a faithful and judicious nurse. To give plausibility to this statement, a paragraph
was inserted in the New York papers announcing that I was a raving maniac and an inmate of
an English asylum for lunatics. Mr. Clayton, my lawyer, was the sole surviving witness of my
final interview, and of its financial provisions; and, had he yielded to bribes and threats
which were unsparingly offered, God only knows what would have been my fate, since the tender
mercies of my husband destined me to the cheerful and attractive precincts of a mad-house.
To Mr. Clayton's stern integrity and brave defence, I am indebted for the preservation of my
fortune and the defeat of a daring and iniquitous scheme to arrest me in London and commit
me to the custody of an asylum-warden. Fortunately for me, he lived long enough to transfer
to my own guardianship, when I attained my majority, the estate which had cost me every earthly
hope. Six months after my departure from America I bade farewell to Europe, and plunged into
the most remote and unfrequented portions of the East, where I wished to remain unknown and
unnoticed. In a half-defiant and half-superstitious mood, I had assumed the talismanic and
mystical name of Alga Gerome, with the faint hope that it might shield me from the intrigues
and persecutions which I felt assured would always dog the steps of Evelyn Carlyle. Having
appointed a cautious and confidential agent in New York and Paris, I destroyed all traces of
my whereabouts, and became as utterly lost to the world as though the portals of the grave
had closed upon me. Without friends, and accompanied only by Elsie and her son Robert, I lived
year after year in wandering through strange lands. Books and pictures were my solace, and
to strangle time I first devoted myself to drawing and painting. After a while I came back
to Rome, and frequented the studios and galleries, perfecting myself in the mechanical department
of Art. But fear of encountering some familiar face drove me from the Eternal City, and a sudden
whim took me to Madeira, where I spent the only portion of my life to which I recur with any
degree of satisfaction. There, surrounded by magnificent scenery, and safe from intrusion,
I intended to drag out the remainder of my dreary years; but poor Elsie grew so restless, so
homesick, so impatient to visit the graves of her household band, that I finally allowed myself
to be persuaded into returning to my native land. Robert preceded us, and purchased this secluded
spot, which I had stipulated must be upon the sea-shore and secure from all intrusion. Avoiding
New York, I came reluctantly to Boston, thence to 'Solitude,' without seeing or hearing of
any whom I had once known. When I was twenty-one, I transferred to Mr. Carlyle the sum of thirty
thousand dollars, as a final settlement; but my agent scrupulously obeyed my instructions,
and no human being, save himself, is aware of my place of residence or the name under which
I am sheltered. Strenuous efforts have been made by Mr. Carlyle to unearth his wretched dupe,
but since I left England, nearly eight years ago, he has been unable to discover any trace
of my location. From time to time I received bills, contracted by him, and paid by my lawyer
after I left New York; and in my escritoire are two accounts of jewellers, where I find charged
the flashing ring and costly diamond cross, which I refused to retain but for which I paid,
after my separation. Prone to dissipation, Mr. Carlyle plunged into excesses that would have
squandered royal portions, and my agent writes that his eagerness to ascertain where I am residing
has recently increased, in consequence of his pecuniary necessities, although the terms of
our separation deprive him of every shadow of claim upon me or my purse. Such, Dr. Grey, is
the shattered idol of my girlish adoration,--such the divinity of dust upon which I spent the
treasures of my love and trust. Gray-haired, gray-hearted, mocked, and maddened in the dawn
of my confiding womanhood, nominally a wife, but in reality a nameless waif, shut out from
happiness, and pitied as a maniac,--such, is that most desolate and isolated woman, whom, as
Agla Gerome, you have known as the mistress of this lonely place. As for my name, I sometimes
wonder whether in the last great gathering in the court of Heaven, my own mother will know
what to call her unbaptized child,--whether the sins charged against me will be read out as
those of Vashti, or Evelyn, or Agla. Elsie persistently clung to Vashti, and verily there seems
a grim fitness in her selection,--a dismal analogy between my blasted life and that of the
discrowned Persian Queen. Be that as it may, if I miss a name I surely shall not miss the equity
that man denies me. 'So long as ye both shall live.' When I look out in springtime, over the
blossoming earth, daisies, and violets, and primroses range themselves into lines that spell
out these hated words of an ever-echoing vow, and if, in midnight hours, I raise my weary eyes,
the sleepless stars revengefully group themselves, and flash back to me, in burning characters,
'Till death us do part.' Up yonder, behind sun, and planet, and nebulæ, I shall look God in
the face, and pointing to my withered heart and blighted life, can say truly, 'At least I kept
the ruins free from perjury; there, at your feet, is the oath unsullied, that I called you
to accept on the awful day when I knelt at your altar.' Love, honor, and obedience, Maurice
Carlyle's unworthiness rendered impossible; but the vow which consecrated and set me apart,
which forbade the thought that other men might offer homage and affection, or even ordinary
tributes of admiration, I have kept sacredly and faithfully. I might have plunged into the
whirlpool of fashionable life, and found temporary oblivion of my humiliation and disappointment;
but from such a career my whole being revolted, and in seclusion I have dragged out a dreary
series of years that can scarcely be termed life. The eagerness with which I once anticipated
my bridal hour does not approximate the intensity of my longing for the day of my death. O
merciful God! surely, surely, I have been sufficiently tortured, and the tardy release can
not be far distant."

She raised her face skyward, as if invoking Divine aid, but her wan lips were voiceless; and
only the song of the surf mingled with the whisper of trembling poplars, whose fading leaves
gleamed ghostly and chill under the silver sheen of that broad white moon.

  "There heavily, across the troubled night,
  A warning comet trails her hideous hair,
  And underneath, the wroth sea-waves are white."

During the hour in which Dr. Grey listened to the recital of this woman's hapless career, she
became as utterly dead to him as though shroud and sepulchre had already claimed her; and when
she ceased speaking, he looked as sorrowfully down at her fair, frozen face, as if the coffin-lid
were shutting it forever from his view.

Henceforth she was as sacred in his sad eyes as some beloved corpse, and bowing his head upon
his hands, he prayed long but silently that God would strengthen him for the duties of a desolate
future,--would sanctify this grievous disappointment to his eternal welfare, and grant him
power to lead heavenward the heart of the only woman whom he had ever desired to call his own.

Putting away the beautiful dreams wherein this regal form had moved to and fro as crown and
queen of his home and heart, he calmly resigned the cherished scheme that linked this woman's
life with his; and felt that he would gladly barter all his earthly hopes for the assurance,
that, throughout eternity, he might be allowed the companionship which time denied him.

Mrs. Gerome rose, and folding her mantle around her, said proudly,--

"Married life, unhallowed by love, is more acceptable in your righteous eyes than my isolated
existence; and you have passed sentence against me. So be it. Strange code of morality you
Christians hug to your hearts, squeezing the form that holds no spirit; but some day I shall
be acquitted by that incorruptible tribunal where God alone has the right to judge us. Till
then, farewell."

She turned to leave the terrace, but he arrested the movement, and placed himself before her.

"You misinterpret my silence, if you suppose it was employed in censuring your course. Pondering
all that you have recapitulated, I can conjecture no line of conduct towards your husband less
deplorable than that which you have pursued; and I honor the stern honesty and integrity of
purpose from which you have never swerved. Mrs. Carlyle, I acquit you of all guilt, save that
of impious defiance, of rebellion against your God, whose grace could sweeten even the bitter
dregs of the cup you have well-nigh drained."

At the sound of her name, so long unuttered, she winced and writhed as if some sensitive nerve
had been suddenly pierced and torn; but without heeding her emotion, Dr. Grey continued,--

"If your earthly lot has been stinted of sunshine, can you not bear a little temporary gloom,--must
you needs people it with adverse witnesses, must you thicken the darkness with imprecations?
You forget that life is only the racecourse, not the goal,--that this world is for human souls
what the plain of Dura proved for the Hebrew trio who braved its flames. Suppose you are lonely
and bereft of the love that might have cheered you? Was not Christ far more isolated and loveless?
In His fearful ordeal He was forsaken by God,--but to you remains the everlasting promise,
'I will not leave you comfortless; I will come to you.' O wretched woman! give your aching
heart to Him who emptied it of earthly idols in order to fit it up for His own temple.

  'Is God less God, that thou art left undone?
  Rise, worship, bless Him, in this sackcloth spun,
  As in that purple.'"

Silently she listened, looking steadily up at his noble face, where intense mental anguish
had left unwonted pallor, and printed new ciphers on brow and lips; and when his adjuration
ended, she put out her hand.

"That you do not condemn me is the most precious consolation you could offer, for your good
opinion is worth much to my proud, sensitive soul. If all men were like you there would be
no mutilated, ruined lives, such as mine,--no nominal wives roaming up and down the world in
search of an obscure corner wherein to hide dishonored heads and crushed hearts. God grant
you some day a wife worthy of the noblest man it has ever been my good fortune to meet. Good-by."

He did not accept the offered hand, and stood for a moment as if struggling to master some
impulse to which he could not yield. Perhaps he dared not trust the touch of those gleaming,
slender fingers that had clasped a living husband's; or perchance he was so absorbed by painful
thoughts that he failed to observe them.

Laying his palm softly on her snowy head, he said tenderly,--

"Mrs. Carlyle, you have innocently, and I believe unconsciously, caused me the keenest suffering
I have ever endured; and I feel assured you will not withhold the only reparation which you
could render, or I accept. Will you promise to consecrate the remainder of your life to the
service of Christ? Will you humble your defiant soul, and so spend your future, that when this
brief earthly pilgrimage ends you can pass joyfully to the city of Rest?

"Oh, Dr. Grey, if it were possible!"

She clasped her hands and bowed her chin upon them, awed by his tones, and unable to met his
grave, pleading eyes.

"Faith and prayer are the talismans that render all things possible to an earnest Christian;
and it has been truly said 'We mount to heaven mostly on the ruins of our cherished schemes,
finding our failures were successes.' Recollect,--

  'There is a pleasure which is born of pain:
  The grave of all things hath its violet,'

and do not indulge a corroding bitterness that has almost destroyed the nobler elements of
your nature. I will exact no promise, but when I am gone, do not forget the request that my
soul makes of yours. May God point out your work and help you to perform it faithfully. May
His hand guide and uphold, and His merciful arms enfold you, now and forever, is and shall
be my prayer."

For a moment his hand lingered as if in benediction upon the drooping gray head, then he quietly
turned and walked away, knowing full well that he was bidding adieu to the most precious of
all earthly objects,--that he too was shattering a lovely "graven image," before which his
heart had fondly bowed.

As the sound of his firm step died away, the lonely woman lifted her face and looked after
the form, vanishing in the gloom of the overarching trees. When he had disappeared, and she
turned seaward, where the moon, as if inviting her to heaven, had laid a broad shining band
of beaten silver from wave to sky,--the miserable wife raised her hands appealingly, and made
a new covenant with her pitying God.

              ... "Wherefore thy life
  Shall purify itself, and heal itself,
  In the long toil of love made meek by tears."

CHAPTER XXVIII.

"Merton, you are not conscious of the extent of your infatuation, which has already excited
comment in our limited circle of acquaintances."

"Indeed! The members of 'our limited circle of acquaintances' are heartily welcome to whatever
edification or amusement they may be able to derive from the discussion of my individual affairs,
or the analysis of my peculiar tastes. You forget, my dear Constance, that to devour and in
turn be devoured is an inexorable law of this world; and if my eccentricities furnish a ragout
for omnivorous society, I should be philanthropically glad that tittle-tattledom owes me thanks."

The speaker did not lay aside the newspaper that partially concealed his countenance; and when
he ceased speaking, his eyes reverted to the statistical table of Egyptian and Algerine cotton,
which for some moments he had been attentively examining.

"My dear brother, you are spasmodically and provokingly philosophical! Pray do me the honor
to discard that stupid Times, which you pore over as if it were the last sensation novel, and
be so courteous as to look at me while you are talking," replied the invalid sister, beating
a tattoo on the side of her couch.

"I believe I have nothing to communicate just now," was the quiet and unsatisfactory answer,
as he drew a pencil from his pocket and made some numeral annotations on the margin of the
statistics.

"Surely, Merton, you are not angry with your poor Constance?"

Merton Minge lowered his paper, restored the pencil to his vest pocket, and wheeling his chair
forward, brought himself closer to the couch.

"I wish you were as far removed from fever as I certainly am from anger. Your eyes are too
bright, my pretty one."

He put his fingers on her pulse, and when he removed them, compressed his lips to stifle a sigh.

"Why will you so persistently evade me?--why will you always change the subject when I allude
to that young lady?"

"Because, when a man attains the sober and discreet age of forty years, he naturally and logically
thinks he has earned, and is entitled to, an exemption from the petty teasing to which sophomores
and sentimentalists are subjected. While I gratefully appreciate the compliment implied in
your forgetfulness, permit to remind you of the disagreeable fact that I am no longer a boy."

"You lose sight of that same ugly and ill-mannered fact, much more frequently than I am in
danger of doing; and I affectionately suggest that you stimulate your own torpid memory. Ah,
brother! why will you not be frank, and confide in me? Women are not easily hoodwinked, except
by their lovers,--and you can not deceive me in this matter."

"What pleasure do you suppose it would afford me to practice deceit of any kind towards my
only sister? To what class of motives could you credit such conduct?"

"I think you shrink from acknowledging your real feelings, because you very well know that
I could never sanction or consent to them."

Mr. Minge arched his heavy brows, and the sternly drawn lines of his large mouth relaxed, and
threatened to run into curves that belonged to the ludicrous, as he turned his twinkling eyes
upon his sister's face.

"What extraordinary hallucinations attack even sage, sedate, middle-aged men? Ten minutes ago
I would have sworn I was your guardian; whereas, it seems your apron-strings are the reins
that rule me. Don't pout, my Czarina, if I demand your credentials before I bow submissively
to your ukase."

"Irony is not your forte; and, Merton, I beg you to recollect that I detest bantering,--it
is so excessively ungenteel. No wonder you look nervous and ashamed, after your recent very
surprising manifestation of--well, I might as well say what I mean--of mauvais goût."

Constance Minge impatiently threw off the light worsted shawl that rested on her shoulders,
and propped her cheek on her jewelled hand.

Her brother's countenance clouded, and his lips hardened, but after one keen look at her flushed
features, he once more resumed the perusal of the paper. Some moments elapsed, and his sister
sobbed, but he took no notice of the sound.

"Merton, I never expected you would treat me so cruelly."

"Make out your charges in detail, and when you are sure you have included all the petty deeds
of tyranny as well as the heinous acts of brutality, I will examine the indictment, and hear
myself arraigned. Shall I bring you some legal cap, and loan you my pencil?"

For five minutes she held her handkerchief to her eyes, and then Mr. Minge rose and looked
at his watch.

"You will not be so unkind as to leave me again this afternoon, and spend your time with that--"

"Constance, you transcend your privileges, and this is a most apropos and convenient occasion
to remind you that presumption is one fault I find it particularly difficult to forgive. Since
my forbearance only invites aggression, let me hear say (as an economy of trouble), that you
are rashly invading a realm where I permit none to enter, much less to dictate. I hope you
understand me."

"I knew it,--I felt it! I dreaded that artful girl would make mischief between us,--would alienate
the only heart I had left to care for me. Oh, how I wish she had been forty fathoms under the
sea before you ever saw her!--before you ceased to love me!"

A flood of tears emphasized the sentence, which seemed lost upon Mr. Minge, as he lighted a
cigar, tried its flavor, threw it away, and puffed the smoke from a second.

"I am sorry you can't smoke and compose your nerves, as I am preparing to do,--though I confess
I prefer to kiss your lips untainted by such odors. Shall I?"

He held his cigar aside to prevent the wind from wafting the curling column of smoke in her
face, and bent his head close to hers; but she put up her hand to prevent the caress, and averted
her face.

"As you like. But mark you, Constance, the next time our lips touch, you will find yourself
in the nominative case, while I meekly fill an objective position. You are a poor, wilful,
spoiled child, and I must begin to undo my own ruinous work."

He picked up his hat and walked off, followed by a pretty Italian mouse-colored greyhound,
whose silver bell tinkled as she ran down the steps.

"Merton, come back! Do not leave me here alone, or I shall die. Brother!--"

On strode the stalwart figure, looking neither to right nor left, and behind him trailed the
vaporous aroma of the fine cigar. Raising herself on her couch, the invalid elevated her voice,
and exclaimed,--

"Please, dear Merton, come back,--at least long enough to let me kiss you. Please, brother!"

He paused,--wavered,--drew geometrical figures on the ground with the tip of his boot, and
finally took off his hat, turned and bowed, saying,--

"Show some flag of truce, if you really want me to return."

She raised her hands and gracefully tossed him several kisses.

Slowly Mr. Minge retraced his steps, and, as he sat down once more close to his sister and
pushed back his hat, she saw that he intended her to realize that her reign was at an end;
and she trembled and turned pale at the expression with which he regarded her.

"Merton, don't you know--don't you believe--that I love you above everything else?"

She sat erect, and stole one arm around the neck that did not bend toward her, as was its habit.

"If you really loved me, you would desire to see me happy."

"I do desire it, earnestly and sincerely; and there is no sacrifice I would not make to see
you really happy."

"Provided I selected your mode of obtaining the boon, and moreover consulted your caprices
and antipathies; otherwise, my happiness would annoy and insult you."

"Don't scold,--kiss me." She put up her lips, but he did not respond to the motion, and she
pettishly drew his head down and kissed him several times. "How obstinate you have grown!--how
harsh towards me! It is all the result of that--"

She bit her lip, and her brother frowned.

"Take care! You seem continually disposed to stumble very awkwardly into forbidden realms."

The petted invalid nestled her pretty head on his bosom, and patted his cheek with one hot hand.

"Brother, Kate Sutherland was here this morning, and left--besides numerous kind messages for
you--a three-cornered note that I ordered Adèle to place in your dressing-case, where I felt
sure you would see it."

"Yes, I saw it."

"An invitation to ascend Monte Pellegrini?"

"Which I respectfully decline."

"O Merton! Why not go?"

"Simply because I never premeditatedly, and with malice prepense, bore myself by joining parties
composed of persons in whom I have not an atom of interest."

"But Kate is so lovely?"

"Not to me."

"Nonsense! She was the handsomest young girl in Paris, and was the acknowledged belle of the
season."

"Possibly. Henna-dyed nails are considered irresistible in Turkey, but your opalescent ones
attract me infinitely more pleasantly."

"Pray what have my nails to do with Kate's beauty?"

"Nothing destructive, I hope,--as I am disposed to think she has little to spare."

"Good heavens! You surely would not insinuate that you believe or consider,--or would admit,
that she is not vastly superior to--to--there, Beauty, down! She is actually dining on the
fringe of my pelerine!"

To cover her confusion, Constance addressed herself to the diminutive dog at her feet, and
taking her flushed face in his hands, the brother looked steadily down, and answered,--

"I never insinuate. It impresses me as a cowardly and contemptible bit of plebeian practice
that found favor after the royal purple was trailed in agrarian democratic dust; and lest you
should unjustly impute abhorred innuendoes to me, I will say perspicuously, that the most attractive
and beautiful woman I have ever seen is not your fair friend Miss Sutherland, nor any other
darling of diamond and satin sheen, but a young lady whom I admire beyond expression, Miss
Salome Owen."

An angry flush burned on the invalid's face, and her mouth curled scornfully.

"She is rather handsome sometimes,--so are gypsies and other waifs; but it is a wild sort of
beauty,--if beauty you persist in terming it; and low birth and blood are visible in everything
that appertains to her. I never expected to see my brother condescend to the level of opera-singers,
and I am astonished at your infatuation. There! you need not expect to blast me with that fiery
look, and besides, you know you mentioned her name, which I had scrupulously avoided. I confess
I am very proud of my family, and of you, its sole male representative, and I wish it preserved
from all taint."

"Untainted it shall remain, while a drop of the blood throbs in my veins, and I, who am jealous
of my honor, have carefully pondered the matter, and maturely decided that he who entrusts
his happiness to Salome Owen will be indeed an enviable man, and pardonably proud of his prize.
Once I bartered myself away at the altar, and gave my name and hand for wealth, for aristocratic
antecedents, for fashionable status, and five years of purgatorial misery was the richly merited
penalty for the insult I offered my heart. Death freed me, and for ten years I have lived at
least in peace, indulging no thought of a second alliance, and merely amused, or disgusted
by the matrimonial snares that have lined my path. I no longer belong to that pitiable class
who feel constrained to marry for position, and who convert the altar-steps into so many rounds
of the social ladder; and I have earned the right to indulge my outraged heart in any caprice
that promises to mellow, to gild the evening of my life with that home-sunshine that was denied
its gloomy tempestuous morning. My future, my fortune, my social standing, my unblemished name,
are all my own,--and I shall exercise my privilege of bestowing them where and when I please,
heedless of the sneers and howls of disappointed mercenary schemers. Come weal, come woe, I
here announce that neither you nor the world need hope to influence me one 'jot or tittle'
in an affair where I allow no impertinent interference. I warn you this is the last time I
shall permit even an indirect allusion to matters with which you have no legitimate concern;
and provided you do not obtrude them upon me, it is a question of indifference to me what your
opinion and that of your 'circle' may chance to be. Constance, you here have your ultimatum.
Defy me, if you please, but prompt separation will ensue; and you will unexpectedly find yourself
en route for America. Peace or war? Before you decide, recollect that all your future will
be irretrievably colored by it."

"In my state of health it is positively cruel for you to threaten me; and some day when you
follow my coffin to Mount Auburn, you will repent your harshness. I wish to heaven I had never
left home!"

A passionate fit of weeping curtailed the sentence, and, while the face was covered with the
lace handkerchief, the brother rose and made his escape.

Despite the fact that forty years had left their whitening touches on his head and luxuriant
beard, Merton Minge, who had never been handsome, even in youth, was sufficiently agreeable
in appearance to render him an object of deep interest in the circle where he moved. Medium-statured,
and very robust, a healthful ruddy tinge robbed his complexion of that sallow hue which mercantile
pursuits are apt to induce, and brightened the deep-set black eyes which his debtors considered
mercilessly keen, cold, and incisive.

The square face, with its broad, full forehead, and deep curved furrow dividing the thick straight
brows,--its well-shaped but prominent nose, and massive jaws and chin partially veiled by a
grizzled beard that swept over his deep chest,--was suggestive of ledgers rent-roll, and stock-boards,
rather than æsthetics, chivalry, or sentimentality. The only son of a proud but impoverished
family, who were eager to retrieve their fortune, he had early in life married the imperious
spoiled daughter of a Boston millionaire, whose dower consisted of five hundred thousand dollars,
and a temper that eclipsed the unamiable exploits of ancient and modern shrews.

Hopeless of domestic happiness in a union to which affection had not prompted him, Mr. Minge
devoted himself to the rapid accumulation of wealth, and by judicious and successful speculations
had doubled his fortune, ere, at the comparatively early age of thirty, he was left a childless
widower. Whether he really thanked fate for his timely release, his most intimate friends were
never able to ascertain, for he wore mourning, badges for three years, and conducted himself
in all respects with exemplary dignity and scrupulous propriety. But the frigid indifference
with which he received all matrimonial overtures indicated that his conjugal experience was
not so rosy as to tempt him to repeat the experiment.

His mother was a haughty, frivolous woman, jealously tenacious of her position as one of the
oligarchs of le beau monde, and his fragile sister had from childhood been the victim of rheumatism
that frequently rendered her entirely helpless. To these two and their fashionable friends,
he abandoned his elegant home, costly equipages, and opera-box, reserving only a suite of rooms,
his handsome riding-horse, and yacht.

Grave and unostentatious, yet not moody,--neither impulsively liberal and generous nor habitually
penurious and uncharitable,--he led a quiet and monotonously easy life, varied by occasional
trips to foreign lands, and comforted by the assurance that his income-tax was one of the heaviest
in the state. Two years after the death of his mother, he took his sister a second time to
Europe, hoping that the climate of the Levant might relieve her suffering; and upon the steamer
in which he crossed the Atlantic he met Salome Owen.

Extravagantly fond of music, though unable to extract it from any instrument, his attention
had first been attracted by her exquisite voice, which invested the voyage with a novel charm
and rendered her a great favorite with the passengers.

Human nature is wofully inflexible and obstinate, and not all the Menus, Zoroasters, Solomons,
and Platos have taught it wisdom; wherefore it is not surprising that a caustic wit and savage
cynic asserts, "The vices, it may be said, await us in the journey of life like hosts with
whom we must successively lodge; and I doubt whether experience would make us avoid them if
we were to travel the same road a second time."

Habit may be second nature, but it is the Gurth, the thrall of the first,--the vassal of inherent
impulses; and even the most ossified natures contain some soft palpitating spot that will throb
against the hand that is sufficiently dexterous to find it. In every man and woman there lurks
a vein of sentiment, which, no matter how heavily crushed by the super-incumbent mass of utilitarian,
practical commonplaceisms, will one day trickle through the dusty débris, and creep like a
silver thread over the dun waste of selfishness; or, Arethusa-like, burst forth suddenly after
long subterranean wandering.

For forty years it had crawled silently and sluggishly under the indurated and coldly egoistic
nature of Merton Minge,--had been dammed up at times by avarice and at others by grim recollections
of his domestic infelicity; but finally, after tedious meandering in the Desert of Heartlessness,
it struggled triumphantly to the surface one glorious autumn night, when a golden moon illumined
the Atlantic waves and kindled a bewitching beauty in the face of Salome, who sat on deck,
singing an impassioned strain from La Favorite.

Her silvery voice was the miraculous rod that smote his petrified affections, and a wellspring
of tenderness gushed forth, freshening, softening, and clothing with verdure and bloom his
arid, sterile, stony temperament. Long-buried dreams of his boyhood stirred in their chilly
graves and flitted dimly before him, and a hope that had slumbered so soundly he had utterly
ignored its memory, started up, eager and starry-eyed, as in the college days of eld,--the
precious hope, underlying all other emotions in a man's heart, that one day he too would be
loved and prayed for by a pure womanly heart, and pure, sweet, womanly lips.

Fifteen years before, he had vowed "to cherish," not the haughty girl whose hand he clasped,
but the five hundred thousand dollars that gilded it; and faithfully he had kept his oath to
the god of his idolatry, sacrificing the best half of his life to insatiate Kuvera.

On that cloudless October night, as he watched the shimmer of the moon on Salome's silky hair,
and noted the purely oval outline of her daintily carved face, and the childish grace of her
fine form,--as he listened to flute-like tones, as irresistible as Parthenope's, his cold,
formal, non-committal mouth stirred, his hand involuntarily opened and closed firmly, as if
grasping some "pearl of great price," and his slow, almost stagnant pulses, leaped into feverish
activity, and soon ran riot. Perhaps more regular features, and deeper, richer carnation bloom
had confronted him, but love makes sad havoc of ideals and abstract standards, and he who defined
beauty, "the woman I love," was wiser than Burke and more analytical than Cousin.

The freshness, the brusquerie, the outspoken honesty, that characterized Salome, strangely
fascinated this grave, selfish, blasé aristocrat, who was weary of hollow, polished conventionalities
and stereotyped society phrases; and, as he sat on deck watching her countenance, he would
have counted out his fortune at her feet for the privilege of claiming her fair, slender hand,
and her tremulous, scarlet lips, instinct with melody that entranced him.

Henceforth life had a different goal, a nobler aim, a tenderer and more precious hope; and
all the energy of his vigorous character was bent to the fulfilment of the beautiful dream
that one day that young girl would bear his name, grace his princely home, and nestle in his heart.

He did not ask, Can that fair, graceful, gifted young thing ever love a gray-haired man, old
enough to call her his daughter? Nay, nay! Common sense was utterly dethroned and expelled,--romance
usurped the realm, and draped the future with rainbows; and he only set his teeth firmly against
each other, and said to his bounding heart and blinded soul, "Patience, ye shall soon possess her!"

To Paris, Lyons, Naples, he had followed her, and finally secured a villa at Palermo, where
Prof. V---- had established himself and his household in a comfortable suite of rooms.

To-day, as he left his sister and approached the house where the professor dwelt, his countenance
was moody and forbidding, but its expression changed rapidly, as he caught a glimpse of the
white muslin dress that fluttered in the evening wind.

Salome was swiftly pacing the wide terrace that commanded a view of the Mediterranean, and
her hands were clasped behind her, as was her habit when immersed in thought.

Over her head she had thrown a white gauze scarf of fringed silk, which, slipping back, displayed
the elaborate braids of hair wound around the head, where a crescent of snowy hyacinths partially
encircled the glossy coil, and drooped upon her neck.

Her face wore a haggard, anxious, restless expression, and the thin lips had lost their bright
coral tint,--the smooth, clear cheeks something of their rounded perfection.

As Mr. Minge came forward, she paused in her walk and leaned against the marble railing of
the terrace, where a lemon tree, white with bloom, overhung the mosaiced floor and powdered
it with velvety petals.

He held out his hand.

"I hope I find you better?"

"Do I look so, think you?" said she, eyeing him impatiently, and keeping her hands folded behind
her.

"Unfortunately, no; and if I possessed the right I have more than once solicited, other physicians
should be consulted. Why will you tamper with so serious a matter, and unnecessarily augment
the anxiety of those who love you?"

"I beg you to believe that my self-love is infinitely stronger than any other with which I
am honored, and prompts me to all possible prudential precautions. Three doctors have already
annoyed me with worthless prescriptions, and this morning I paid their bills and dismissed
them; whereupon, one of them revenged himself by maliciously informing me that I should not
be able to sing a note for one year at least."

"To what do they attribute the disease?"

"To that attack of scarlet fever, and also to the too frequent and severe cauterization of
my throat. Time was when like other fond fools, I fancied Fate was not the hideous hag that
wiser heads had painted her, but an affable old dame, easily cajoled and propitiated. With
Carthaginian gratitude she repays my complimentary opinion by trampling my hopes and aims as
I crush these petals, which yield perfume to their spoiler, while I could--"

She put her foot upon the drifting lemon blossoms, and bit her lip to keep back the bitter
words that trembled on her tongue.

"Come and sit here on the steps, and confide your plans to one whose every scheme shall be
subordinated to your wishes, your happiness."

Mr. Minge attempted to take her hand, but she drew back and repulsed him.

"Excuse me. I prefer to remain where I am; and when I am so fortunate and sagacious as to mature
any plans, I shall be sure to lock them in my own heart beyond the tender mercies of meddling,
marplot fortune."

Her whole face grew dark, sinister, almost dangerous in its sudden transformation, and, leaning
against the railing, she impatiently swept off the snowy lemon leaves. Mr. Minge took the end
of her scarf, and as he toyed with the fringe, sighed heavily.

"Of course you are forced to abandon your contemplated début in Paris?"

"Yes. A début minus a voice, does not tempt me. Ah! how bright the future looked when I sang
for the agent of the Opera-House, and found myself engaged for the season. How changed, how
cheerless all things seem now."

"Salome, fate is Janus-faced, and while frowning on you smiles benignantly on me. I joyfully
hail every obstacle that bars your path, hoping that, weary of useless resistance, you will
consent to walk in the flowery one I have offered you. My beautiful darling, why will you refuse
the--"

"Silence! I am in no mood to listen to a repetition of sentiments which, however flattering
to my vanity, have no power to touch my heart. Mr. Minge, I have twice declined the offer you
have done me the honor to make; and while proud of your preference, my Saxon is not so ambiguous
or redundant as to leave any margin for misconception of my meaning."

"My dear Salome, I fear your decision has been influenced by the consciousness that my poor,
petted Constance has occasionally neglected the courtesies which you had a right to claim from
the sister of the man who seeks to make you his wife."

"No, sir; your sister's sneers, and the petty slights and persecutions for which I am indebted
to her friend, Miss Sutherland, have not sufficient importance to affect me in any degree.
My decision is based upon the unfortunate fact that I do not love you."

"No woman can withstand such devotion as I bring you, and time would soon soften and deepen
your feelings."

"Sir, you unduly flatter yourself. Neither time nor eternity would change me, and you would
do well to remember that it is my voice, sir,--not my hand and heart,--that I offer for sale."

"Your stubborn rejection is explicable only by the supposition that you have deceived me,--that
you have already bartered away the heart I long to call my own."

"I am a miller's child,--you a millionaire, but permit me to remind you that I allow no imputation
on my veracity. Why should I condescend to deceive you?"

She petulantly snatched her scarf from the fingers that still stroked it caressingly; but an
instant later a singular change swept over her countenance, and pressing her hands to her heart,
she said in a proud, almost exultant tone,--

"Although I deny your right to question me upon this subject, you are thoroughly welcome to
know that I love one man so entirely, so deathlessly, that the bare thought of marrying any
one else sickens my soul."

Mr. Minge turned pale, and grasped the carved balustrade against which he rested.

"O Salome! you have trifled."

"No, sir. Take that back. I never stoop to trifling; and the curse of my life has been my almost
fatal earnestness of purpose. If I ever deliberated one moment concerning the expediency of
clothing myself first with your aristocratic name, afterwards with satin, velvet, and diamonds,--if
I ever silenced the outcry of my heart long enough to ask myself whether gilded misery was
not the least torturing type of the epidemic wretchedness,--at least I kept my parley with
Mammon to myself; and if you obstinately cherished hopes of final success, they sprang from
your vanity, not my dissimulation. Mark you, I here set up no claim to sanctity,--for indeed
my sins are 'thick as leaves in Vallombrosa'; but my pedigree does not happen to link me with
Sapphira, and deceit is not charged to me in the real Doomsday Book. Theft would be more possible
for me than falsehood, for while both are labelled 'wicked,' I could never dwarf and shrivel
my soul by the cowardly process of mendacity. Mr. Minge, had I been a trifle less honest and
true than I find myself, I might have impaired my self-respect by trifling."

"Forgive me, Salome, if the pain I endure rendered me harsh or unjust. My dearest, I did not
intend to wound you, but indeed you are cruel sometimes."

"Yes; truth is the most savagely cruel of all rude, jagged weapons, and leaves ugly gashes
and quivering nerves exposed, and these are the hurts that never cicatrize--that gape and bleed
while the heart throbs to feed them."

"Tell me candidly whether the heart I covet belongs to that Mr. Granville, who paid you such
devoted attention in Paris."

A short, scornful, mirthless laugh rang sharply on the air, and turning quickly, Salome exclaimed
contemptuously,--

"I said I loved a man,--a true, honest, brave, noble man,--not that perfumed, unprincipled,
vain, foppish automaton, who adorns a corner of the diplomatic apartment where attachés of
the American embassy 'most do congregate'! Gerard Granville is unworthy of any woman's affection,
for maugre the indisputable fact that he is betrothed to a fond, trusting girl, now in the
United States, he had the effrontery to attempt to offer his addresses to me. If an honest
man be the noblest work of God, then, beyond all peradventure, the disgrace of creation is
centred in an unscrupulous one, such as I have the honor to pronounce Mr. Granville."

Seizing her hands, Mr. Minge carried them forcibly to his lips, and said, in a voice that faltered
from intensity of feeling,--

"Is it the hope that your love is reciprocated which bars your heart so sternly against my
pleadings? Spare me no pangs,--tell me all."

She freed her fingers from his grasp, and retreating a few steps, answered with a passionate
mournfulness which he never forgot,--

"If I were dowered with that precious hope, not all the crown jewels in Christendom and Heathendom
could purchase it. Not the proudest throne on that continent of empires that lies yonder to
the north, could woo me one hour from the only kingdom where I could happily reign,--the heart
of the man I love. No--no--no! That hope is as distant as the first star up there above us,
which has rent the blue veil of heaven to gaze pityingly at me; and I would as soon expect
to catch that silver sparkle and fold it in my arms as dream that my affection could ever be
returned. The only man I shall ever love could not bend his noble, regal nature to the level
of mine, and towers beyond me, a pinnacle of unapproachable purity and perfection. Ah, indeed,
he is one of those concerning whom it has been grandly said: 'The truly great stand upright
as columns of the temple whose dome covers all,--against whose pillared sides multitudes lean,
at whose base they kneel in times of trouble.' Mr. Minge, it is despair that crouches at my
heart, not hope that shuts its portals against your earnest petition; for a barrier wider,
deeper than a hundred oceans divides me from my idol, who loves, and ere this, is the husband
of another."

She did not observe the glow that once more mantled his cheek, and fired his eyes, until he
exclaimed with unusual fervor,--

"Thank God! That fact is freighted with priceless comfort."

Compassion and contempt seemed struggling for mastery, as she waved him from her, and answered,
impatiently,--

"Think you that any other need hope to usurp my monarch's place,--that one inferior dare expect
to wield his sceptre over my heart? Pardon me,--

  'If there were not an eagle in the realm of birds,
  Must then the owl be king among the feathered herds?'

Some day a gentler spirit than mine will fill your home with music, and your heart with peace
and sunshine; and, in that hour, thank honest Salome Owen for the blessings you owe to her
candor. I must bid you good-night."

She drew the scarf closer about her head and throat, and turned to leave the terrace.

"Will you not allow me to drive you to-morrow afternoon on the Marino? Do not refuse me this
innocent and inexpressibly valued privilege. I will not be denied! Good-night, my--Heaven shield
you, my worshipped one! Hush!--I will hear no refusal."

He stooped, kissed the folds of the scarf that covered her head, and hurried down the steps
of the terrace.

The glory of a Sicilian sunset bathed the face and figure that stood a moment under the lemon-boughs,
watching the retreating form which soon disappeared behind clustering pomegranate, olive, and
palm; and a tender compassion looked out of the large hazel eyes, and sat on the sad lips that
murmured,--

"God help you, Merton Minge, to strangle the viper that coils in your heart, and gnaws its
core. My own is a serpent's lair, and I pity the pangs that rend yours also. But after a little
while, your viper will find a file,--mine, alas! not until death arrests the slow torture.
To-morrow afternoon I shall be--where? Only God knows."

She shivered slightly, and raised her beautiful eyes towards the west, where golden gleams
and violet shadows were battling for possession of a reef of cloud islets, which dotted the
azure upper sea of air, and were reflected in the watery one beneath.

"Courage! courage!

  'Those who have nothing left to hope,
  Have nothing left to dread.'"

CHAPTER XXIX.

"Muriel, where can I find Miss Dexter?"

"She went out on the lawn an hour ago, to regale herself with what she calls, 'atmospheric
hippocrene,' and I have not heard her come in, though she may have gone to her room. Pray tell
me, doctor, why you wish to see my governess?--to inquire concerning my numerous peccadilloes?"

Muriel adroitly folded her embroidered silk apron over a package of letters that lay in her
lap, and affected an air of gayety at variance with her dim eyes and wet lashes.

"I shall believe that conscience accuses you of many juvenile improprieties, since you so suspiciously
attack my motives and intentions. Indeed, little one, you flatter yourself unduly, in imagining
that my interview with Miss Dexter necessarily involves the discussion of her pupil. I merely
wish to enlist her sympathy in behalf of one of my patients. Muriel, I would have been much
more gratified if I had found you walking with her, instead of moping here alone."

"I am not moping."

The girl bit her full red lip, and strove to force back the rapidly gathering tears.

"At least you are not cheerful, and it pains me to see that anxious, dissatisfied expression
on a face that should reflect only sunshine. What disturbs you?--the scarcity of Gerard's letters?"

Dr. Grey sat down beside his ward, and throwing her arms around his neck, she burst into a
passionate flood of tears. The sudden movement uncovered the letters, which slipped down and
strewed the carpet.

"Oh, doctor! I am very miserable!"

"Why, my dear child?"

"Because Gerard does not love me as formerly."

"What reason have you for doubting his affection?"

"He scarcely writes to me once a month, and then his letters are short and cold as icicles,
and full of court gossip and fashion items, for which he knows I do not care a straw. Yesterday
I received one,--the first I have had for three weeks,--and he requests me to defer our marriage
at least six months longer, as he cannot possibly come over in May, the time appointed when
he was here."

She hid her face on her guardian's shoulder, and sobbed.

An expression of painful surprise and stern displeasure clouded Dr. Grey's countenance, as
he smoothed the hair away from the girl's throbbing temples.

"Calm yourself, Muriel. If Gerard has forfeited your confidence, he is unworthy of your tears.
Do you apprehend that his indifference is merely the result of separation, or have you any
cause to attribute it to interest in some other person?"

"That is a question I cannot answer."

"Cannot, or will not?"

"I know nothing positively; but I fear something, which perhaps I ought not to mention."

"Throw aside all hesitancy, and talk freely to me. If Granville is either fickle or dishonorable,
you should rejoice that the discovery has been made in time to save you from life-long wretchedness."

"If we were only married, I am sure I could win him back to me."

"That is a fatal fallacy, that has wrecked the happiness of many women. If a lover grows indifferent,
as a husband he will be cold, unkind, unendurable. If as a devoted fiancée you can not retain
and strengthen his affection,--as a wife you would weary and repel him. Have you answered the
last letter?"

"No, sir."

"My dear child, do you not consider me your best friend?"

"Certainly I do."

"Then yield to my guidance, and follow my advice. Lose no time in writing to Mr. Granville,
and cancel your engagement. Tell him he is free."

"Oh, then I should lose him,--and happiness, forever!" wailed Muriel, clasping her hands almost
despairingly.

"You have already lost his heart, and should be unwilling to retain him in fetters that must
be galling."

"Ah, Dr. Grey! it is very easy for you who never loved any one, to tell me, in that cold, business-like
way, that I ought to set Gerard free; but you cannot realize what it costs to follow your counsel.
Of course I know that in everything else you are much wiser than I, but persons who have no
love affairs of their own are not the best judges of other people's. He is so dear to me, I
believe it would kill me to give him up, and see him no more."

"On the contrary, you would survive much greater misfortune than separation from a man who
is unworthy of you. I cannot coerce, but simply counsel you in this matter, and should be glad
to learn what your own decision is. Do you intend to wait until Gerard Granville explicitly
requests you to release him from his engagement?"

She winced, and the tears gushed anew.

"Oh, you are cruel! You are heartless!"

"No, my dear Muriel; I am actuated by the truest affection for my little ward, and desire to
snatch her from future humiliation. My knowledge of human nature is more extended, more profound
than yours, but since you seem unwilling to avail yourself of my experience, it only remains
for you to acquaint me with your determination. Are you willing to tell me the nature of your
answer?"

"I intend to accede to Gerard's wish, and will defer the marriage until November; but in the
meantime, I shall endeavor to win back his heart, which I believe has been artfully enticed
from me."

"By whom?"

She made no reply, and lifting her head from his shoulder, Dr. Grey looked keenly into her
face, and repeated his question.

"Do not urge me to express suspicions that may possibly be unjust."

"That are entirely unjust, you may rest assured," said he, almost vehemently.

"By what means did you so positively ascertain that fact?"

"The result will prove. Now, my dear child, you must acquit me of heartlessness and cruelty
when I tell you, that, under existing circumstances, I cannot and will not consent to the solemnization
of your marriage until you are of age. Once the conviction that an earlier consummation of
your engagement was essential to the happiness of both parties, overruled the dictates of my
judgment, and induced me to acquiesce in your wishes; but subsequent events have illustrated
the wisdom of my former opposition, and now I am resolved that no argument or persuasion shall
prevail upon me to sanction or permit your marriage until you are twenty-one."

With a sharp cry of chagrin and amazement, Muriel sprang to her feet.

"You surely do not mean to keep me in this torture, for nearly three years? I will not submit
to such tyranny, even from Dr. Grey."

"As a faithful guardian, I can see no alternative, and fear of incurring your displeasure shall
not deter me from the performance of a stern duty to the child of my best and dearest friend.
I must and will do what your father certainly would, were he alive. My dear Muriel, control
yourself, and do not, by harsh epithets and unjust accusations, wound the heart that sincerely
loves you. To-day, as your guardian, I hearken to the imperative dictates of my conscience,
and turn a deaf ear to the pleadings of my tender affection, which would save you from even
momentary sorrow and disappointment. Since my decision is irrevocable, do not render the execution
of my purpose more painful than necessity demands."

Seizing his hand, Muriel pressed it against her flushed cheek, and pleaded falteringly,--

"Do not doom your poor little Muriel to such misery. Oh, Dr. Grey! dear Dr. Grey, remember
you promised my dying father to take his place,--and he would never inflict such suffering
on his child. You have forgotten your promise!"

"No, dear child. It is because I hold it so sacred that I cannot yield to your entreaties;
and I must faithfully adhere to my obligations, even though I forfeit your affection. I shall
write to Mr. Granville by the next mail, and it is my wish that henceforth the subject should
not be referred to. Cheer up, my child; three years will soon glide away, and at the expiration
of that time you will thank me for the firmness which you now denounce as cruelty. Good-morning.
Be sure to think kindly of your guardian, whose heart is quite as sad as your own."

She struggled and resisted, but he kissed her lightly on the forehead, and as he left the room
heard her bitter invectives against his tyranny and hard-heartedness.

Crossing the elm-studded lawn, he approached a secluded walk, bordered with lilacs and myrtle,
and saw the figure of the governess pacing to and fro.

During the four months that had elapsed since his last visit to "Solitude," he scrutinized
and studied her character more closely than formerly, and the investigation only heightened
and intensified his esteem.

No hint of her history had ever passed the calm, patient lips, which had forgotten how to laugh,
and now, as he watched her pale, melancholy face, which bore traces of extraordinary beauty,
he exonerated her from all blame in the ruinous deception that had blasted more lives than
one; and honored the silent heroism which so securely locked her disappointment in her own
heart. He knew that consumption was the hereditary scourge of her family, that she bore in
her constitution the seeds of slowly but surely developing disease, and did not marvel at the
quiet indifference with which she treated symptoms which he had several times pointed out as
serious and dangerous.

To-day her manner was excited, and her step betrayed very unusual impatience.

"Miss Dexter, from the frequency of your cough I am afraid you are imprudent in selecting this
walk, which is so densely shaded that the sun does not reach it until nearly noon. Are not
your feet damp?"

"No, sir; my shoes are thick, and thoroughly protect them."

She paused before him, and, in her soft, brown eyes, he saw a strange, unwonted restlessness,--an
eager expectancy that surprised and disturbed him.

"Are you at leisure this morning?"

"Do you need my services immediately?"

She answered evasively; and he noticed that she glanced anxiously toward the road leading into
town.

"You will greatly oblige me, if some time during the day, you will be so good as to superintend
the preparation of some calves'-feet jelly, for one of my poor patients. I would not trouble
you, but Rachel is quite sick, and the new cook does not understand the process. May I depend
upon you?"

"Certainly, sir; it will afford me pleasure to prepare the jelly."

Looking more closely at her face, he saw undeniable traces of recent tears, and drew her arm
through his.

"I hope you will not deem me impertinently curious if I beg you to honor me with your confidence,
and explain the anxiety which is evidently preying upon your mind."

Embarrassment flushed her transparent cheek, and her shy eyes glanced up uneasily.

"At least, Miss Dexter, permit me to ask whether Muriel is connected with the cause of your
disquiet?"

"My pupil is, I fear, very unhappy; but she withholds much from me since she learned my disapproval
of her approaching marriage."

"Will you acquaint me with your objections to Mr. Granville?"

"Against Mr. Granville, the gentleman, I have nothing to urge; but I could not consent to see
Muriel wed a man, who, I am convinced, has no affection for her."

"Have you told her this?"

"Repeatedly; and, of course, my frankness has offended and alienated her. Oh, Dr. Grey! the
child totters on the brink of a flower-veiled precipice, and will heed no warning. Perhaps
I should libel Mr. Granville were I to impute mercenary motives to him,--perhaps he fancied
he loved Muriel when he addressed her,--I hope so, for the honor of manhood; but the glamour
was brief, and certainly he must be aware that he has not proper affection for her now."

"And yet, she is very lovable and winning."

"Yes,--to you and to me; but her good qualities are not those which gentlemen find most attractive.
What is Christian purity and noble generosity of soul, in comparison with physical perfection?
Muriel often reminds me of one whom I loved devotedly, whose unselfish and unsuspicious nature
wrought the ruin of her happiness; and from her miserable fate I would fain save my pupil."

He knew from the tremor of her lips and hands, and the momentary contraction of her fair brow,
to whom she alluded; and both sighed audibly.

"My convictions coincide so entirely with yours, that I have had an interview with my ward,
and withdrawn my consent to her marriage until she is of age."

"Thank God! In the interim she may grow wiser, or some fortuitous occurrence may avert the
danger we dread."

In the brief silence that ensued, the governess seemed debating the expediency of making some
revelation; and, encountering one of her perplexed and scrutinizing glances, the doctor smiled
and said, gravely,--

"I believe I understand your hesitancy; but I assure you I should never forfeit any trust you
might repose in me. You have some cause of serious annoyance, entirely irrespective of my ward,
and I may be instrumental in removing it."

"Thank you, Dr. Grey. For some days I have been canvassing the propriety of asking your advice
and assistance; and my reluctance arose not from want of confidence in you, but from dread
of the pain it would necessarily inflict upon me, to recur to events long buried. It is not
essential, however, that I should weary you with the minutiæ of circumstances which many years
ago smothered the sunshine in my life, and left me in darkness, a lonely and joyless woman.
I have resided here long enough to learn the noble generosity of your character, and to you,
as a true Christian gentleman, I come for aid,--premising only that what I am about to say
is strictly confidential."

"As such, I shall ever regard it; but if I am to become your coajutor in any matter, let me
request that nothing be kept secret, for only entire frankness should exist between those who
have a common aim."

A painful flush tinged her cheek, and the fair, thin face, grew indescribably mournful, as
she clasped her hands firmly over his arm.

"Dr. Grey, when unscrupulous men or women deliberately stab the happiness of a fellow-creature,
they have no wounded sensibilities, no haunting compunction,--and if remorse finally overtakes,
it finds them well-nigh callous and indurated; but woe to that innocent being who is the unintentional
and unconscious agent for the ruin of those she loves. I cannot remember the time when I did
not love the only man for whom I ever entertained any affection. He was the playmate of my
earliest years,--the betrothed of my young maidenhood,--and just before my poor father died,
he joined our hands and left his blessing on my choice. Poverty was the only barrier to our
union, but I took a situation as teacher, and hoarded my small gains in the hope of aiding
my lover, who went abroad with a wealthy uncle, and completed his education in Germany. I knew
that Maurice had contracted very extravagant and self-indulgent habits,--but in the court of
love is there any 'high crime' or misdemeanor for which a woman's heart will condemn her idol?
Nay, nay; she will plead his defence against the stern evidence of her own incorruptible reason;
and, if need be, share his punishment,--die in his stead. I denied myself every luxury, and
jealously husbanded my small salary, anticipating the happy hour when we might invest it in
furniture for our little home; and, indeed, in those blessed days of hope, it seemed no hardship,--

  'And joy was duty, and love was law.'

From time to time our marriage was deferred, but I well knew I was beloved, and so I waited
patiently, until fortune should smile upon me. In the interim I became warmly attached to a
young girl in the school where I taught, and whose affection for me was enthusiastic and ardent.
Evelyn was an orphan, and the heiress of enormous wealth, which she seemed resolved to share
with me; and, more than once, I was tempted to acquaint her with the obstacle that debarred
me from happiness. Ah! if I had only confided in her, and trusted her faithful love, how much
wretchedness would have been averted! But she appeared to me such an impulsive child that I
shrank from unburdening my heart to her, while she acquainted me with every thought and aim
of her pure, guileless life. She was singularly, almost idolatrously fond of me, and I loved
her very sincerely, for her character was certainly the most admirable I have ever met.

"At vacation we parted for three months, and I hurried to meet my lover, who had promised to
join me in Vermont, where my mother had gone to recruit her failing health. For the first time
Maurice proved recreant, and wrote that imperative business detained him in New York. Did I
doubt him, even then? Not in the least; but endeavored by cheerful letters to show him how
patiently I could bear the separation that might result in pecuniary advantage to him. My mother
looked anxious, and foreboded ill; but I laughed at her misgivings, and proudly silenced her
warning voice. In the midst of my blissful dream came a lengthy telegraphic dispatch from my
young girl-friend Evelyn, inviting me to hasten to New York, and accompany her on a bridal
tour through Europe. In a brief and almost incoherent note, subsequently received, she accidentally
omitted the name of her future husband, and designated him as 'my prince,' 'my king,' 'my liege
lover.' The same mail brought me a long and exceedingly tender letter from my own betrothed,
informing me that at the expiration of ten days he would certainly be with me to arrange for
an immediate consummation of our engagement. A railroad accident delayed me twenty-four hours,
and I did not reach New York until the morning of the day on which my friend was married. The
ceremony took place at ten o'clock, and when I arrived, Evelyn was already in the hands of
the hair-dresser. I was hurried into the room prepared for me, and while waiting for my trunk,
noticed a basket containing some of the wedding cards. I picked up one, and you can perhaps
imagine my emotions, when I saw that my own lover was the betrothed of my friend. Dr. Grey,
eight miserable years have gone wearily over my head since then, but now, in the dead of night,
if I shut my eyes, I see staring at me, like the rayless, glazed orbs of the dead, that silver-edged
wedding card, bearing in silver letters--Maurice Carlyle, Evelyn Flewellyn. Oh, blacker than
ten thousand death-warrants! for all the hopes of a lifetime went down before it. Every ray
of earthly light was extinguished in a night of woe that can have no dawn, until the day-star
of eternity shimmers on its gloom."

She shuddered convulsively, and the agonized expression of her face was so painful to behold
that her companion averted his head.

"I was alone with my misery, and so overwhelming was the shock that I fainted. When the hair-dresser
came to offer her services, she found me lying insensible on the carpet. How bitterly, how
unavailingly, have I reproached myself for my failure to hasten to Evelyn, even then, and divulge
all. But with returning consciousness came womanly pride, and I resolved to hide the anguish
for which I knew there was no cure. As soon as I was dressed, we were summoned down stairs
to meet the remainder of the bridal party, and there I saw the man whom I expected to call
my husband talking gayly with his attendants.

"Evelyn impetuously presented me as her 'dearest friend,' and, without raising his eyes, he
bowed profoundly and turned away. How I endured all I was called to witness that morning, I
know not; but my strength seemed superhuman. The ceremony was performed in church, and after
our return to the house, Mr. Carlyle asserted and claimed the right to kiss the bridesmaids.
There were four, and I was the last whom he approached. I was standing in the shadow of the
window-curtain, which I had clutched for support, and, as he came close to me, our eyes met
for the first time that day, and I can never, never forget the pleading mournfulness, the passionate
tenderness, the despair, that filled his. I waved him from me, but he seized my hand, and pressed
his hot lips lingeringly to mine. Then he whispered, 'My only love, my own Edith, do not judge
till you hear your wretched Maurice. Meet me in the hot-house when Evelyn goes to change her
dress, and I will explain this awful, this accursed necessity.' A few moments later he stood
with his bride at the head of the table in the breakfast-room, while I was placed close to
Evelyn, and the mirror opposite reflected the group. I know now it was sinful, but, oh! how
could I help it? As I looked at the reflection in the glass, and compared my face with that
of the bride, I felt my poor wicked heart throb with triumph at the thought that my superior
beauty could not soon be forgotten,--that, though her husband, he was still my lover. Dr. Grey,
do not despise me for my weakness, as I should have despised him for his perfidy; and remember
that a woman cannot in a moment renounce allegiance to a man who is the one love of her life.
They forced me to drink some wine that fired my brain and made me reckless, and an hour after,
when Maurice came up and offered his arm, inviting me to promenade for a few minutes in the
hot-house, I yielded and accompanied him. He told me a tale of dishonorable financial transactions,
into which he had been betrayed solely by the hope of obtaining money that would enable him
to hasten our union; but the utter failure of the scheme threatened him with disgrace, possibly
with imprisonment, and the only mode of preserving his name from infamy, was to possess himself
of Evelyn's large fortune. Just as he clasped me in his arms, and vehemently declared his deathless
affection for me,--his contempt and hatred of his poor childish bride,--I heard a strange sound
that was neither a wail nor a laugh, a sound unlike any other that ever smote my ears, and
looking up, I saw Evelyn standing before us."

Miss Dexter groaned aloud, and covered her eyes with her hand.

"Oh, my God! help me to shut out that horrible vision! If I could forget that distorted, death-like
face, with livid lips writhing away from the gleaming teeth, and desperate, wide eyes, glaring
like globes of flame! She looked twenty years older, and from her clenched hands,--her beautiful,
exquisite hands,--that were wont to caress me so tenderly, the blood was dripping down on her
lace veil and her white velvet bridal dress. How much she heard I know not, for I never saw
her again. I swooned in Maurice's arms, and was carried to my own room; and when I finally
groped my way to Evelyn's apartment, they told me she had been gone two hours,--had sailed
for Europe, leaving her husband in New York. What passed in her farewell interview with him
none but he and her lawyer knew; but they separated there on condition that his debts were
cancelled. She went abroad with a faithful old Scotch woman who had been her nurse, and her
husband told the world she was a maniac."

"Did he tell you so? Did you believe it?" exclaimed Dr. Grey, with a degree of vehemence that
startled the governess.

"I have never seen Maurice Carlyle since that awful hour in the hot-house. He came repeatedly
to my home, but I refused to meet him, and dozens of his letters have been returned unopened.
Once, while I was absent, he obtained an interview with my mother, and besought her intercession
in his behalf, pleading for my pardon, and assuring her that, as his wife was hopelessly insane,
he would apply for a divorce, and then claim the hand of the only woman he had ever loved.
I dreaded the effect upon Evelyn, and had no means of ascertaining her real condition. Soon
after, I lost my mother, whose death was hastened by grief and humiliation; and, when I had
laid her down beside my father, I went in search of Evelyn. Several times I had attempted to
communicate with her, and with Elsie, the nurse, but my letters always came back unopened,
and bearing the London stamp. Having been informed that she was in an insane asylum in England,
I took the money that had been so carefully hoarded for a different purpose and went to London.
One by one, I searched all the asylums in the United Kingdom, and finding no trace of her,
came back to America. Finally, on the death-bed of Mr. Clayton, her lawyer, who understood
my great anxiety to discover her, I was told in strict confidence that she was perfectly sane,--had
never been otherwise,--but preferred that the false report in circulation should not be corrected,
since her husband had set it in motion. I learned that she was well and pleasantly located
somewhere in the East, but would never see the faces of either friends or foes, and absolutely
refused all intercourse with her race. From one of her letters (which, a moment after, he burned
in the grate) Mr. Clayton read me a paragraph: 'The greatest mercy you can show me is to allow
me to forget. Henceforth mention no more the names of any I ever knew; and let silence, like
a pall, shroud all the past of Vashti.' He died next day, and since then--"

The sad, sweet voice, which for some moments had been growing more and more unsteady, here
sank into a sob, and the governess wept freely, while her whole frame shook with the violence
of long-pent anguish, that now defied control.

"Oh, if I could find her! If I could go to her and tell her all, and exonerate myself! If I
could show her that he was mine always,--mine long before she ever saw him,--then she would
not think so harshly of me. I know not what explanation Maurice gave her, nor how much of our
conversation she overheard; and I cannot live contentedly,--oh! I cannot die in peace till
I see my poor crushed darling, and hear from her lips the assurance that she does not hold
me responsible for her wretchedness. Dr. Grey, I love her with a pitying tenderness that transcends
all power of expression. Perhaps if Maurice had ever loved her, I could not feel as I do towards
her; for a woman's nature tolerates no rival in the affection of her lover, and, unprincipled
as mine proved in other respects, I know that his heart was always unswervingly my own. My
dear, noble Evelyn! My pure, loving little darling! Ah! I have wearied heaven with prayers
that God would give her back to my arms."

Unable to conceal the emotion he was unwilling she should witness, Dr. Grey disengaged his
arm and walked away, striving to regain his usual composure.

Did the governess suspect the proximity of her long-lost friend? If she claimed his assistance
in prosecuting her search, what course would duty dictate?

Retracing his steps, he found that she had seated herself on a bench near one of the tallest
lilacs, and having thrown aside her quilted hood of scarlet silk, her care-worn countenance
was fully exposed.

She was gazing very intently at some object in her hand, which she bent over and kissed several
times, and did not perceive his approach until he stood beside her.

"Dr. Grey, I believe my prayer has been heard, and that at last I have discovered a clew to
the retreat of my lost Evelyn. Last week I went to a jewelry store in town, to buy a locket
which I intended as a birthday gift for Muriel. Several customers had preceded me, and while
waiting, my attention was attracted towards one of the workmen who uttered an impatient ejaculation
and dashed down some article upon which he was at work. As it fell, I saw that it was an oval
ivory miniature, originally surrounded with very large handsome pearls, the greater portion
of which the jeweller had removed and placed in a small glass bowl that stood near him. I leaned
down to examine the miniature, and though the paint was blurred and faded, it was impossible
to mistake the likeness, and you cannot realize the thrill that ran along my nerves as I recognized
the portrait of Evelyn. So great was my astonishment and delight that I must have cried out,
for the people in the store all turned and stared at me, and when I snatched the piece of ivory
from the work-table, the man looked at me in amazement. Very incoherently I demanded where
and how he obtained it, and, beckoning to the proprietor, he said, 'Just as I told you; this
has turned out stolen property.' Then he opened a drawer and took from it a similar oval slab
of ivory, and when I looked at it and saw Maurice's handsome face, my brain reeled, and I grew
so dizzy I almost fell. 'Madam, do you know these portraits?' asked the proprietor.

"I told him that I did,--that I had seen these jewelled miniatures eight years before on the
dressing-table of a bride, and I implored him to tell me how they came into his possession.
He fitted them into a dingy, worn case, which seemed to have been composed of purple velvet,
and informed me that he purchased the whole from an Irish lad, who asserted that he picked
it up on the beach, where it had evidently drifted in a high tide. On examination, he found
that the case had indeed been saturated with sea-water, but the pearls were in such a remarkable
state of preservation that he doubted the lad's statement. He had bought the miniatures in
order to secure the pearls, which he assured me were unusually fine, and to satisfy himself
concerning the affair had advertised two ivory miniatures, and invited the owners to come forward
and prove property. After the expiration of a week, he discontinued the notice, and finally
ordered the pearls removed from their gold frames. When I had given him the names of the originals,
he consented that I should take the portraits which were now worthless to him, and gave me
also the name of the boy. It was not until two days afterward that I succeeded in finding Thomas
Donovan, a lad about fourteen years old, whose mother Phoebe is a laundress, and does up laces
and fine muslins. When I called and stated the object of my visit he seemed much confused,
but sullenly repeated the assertion made to the jeweller. Yesterday I went again and had a
long conversation with his mother, who must be an honest soul, for she assured me she knew
nothing of the matter, and would investigate it immediately. The boy was absent, but she promised
either to send him here this morning or come in person, to acquaint me with the result. I offered
a reward if he would confess where he obtained them; and if he proved obstinate, threatened
to have him arrested. Now, Dr. Grey, you can understand why I have so tediously made a full
revelation of my past, for I wish to enlist your sympathy and claim your aid in my search for
my long-lost friend. These portraits inadequately represent the fascinating beauty of one of
the originals, and the sweetness and almost angelic purity of the other."

She held up the somewhat defaced and faded miniatures for the inspection of her companion,
but scarcely glancing at them, he said, abstractedly,--

"You are sure they belong to Mrs. Carlyle?"

"Yes. As she put on her diamonds just before going down stairs she showed me the portraits
in her jewelry casket, where she had also placed a similar one of myself. Ah! at this instant
I seem to see her beaming face, as she bent down, and sweeping her veil aside, kissed my picture
and Maurice's."

"Do you imagine that she is in America?"

"No; I fear she is dead, and that these were stolen from the old nurse. Who is that yonder?
Ah, yes,--Phoebe Donovan. Now I shall hear the truth."

Forgetting her shawl, and unmindful of the fact that the sun was streaming full on her head
and face, she hurried to meet the woman who was ascending the avenue, and very soon they entered
the house.

A quarter of an hour elapsed ere Phoebe came out, and walked rapidly away; and, unwilling to
prolong his suspense, Dr. Grey went in search of the governess.

He met her in the hall, and saw that she was equipped for a walk. Her cheeks were scarlet,
her brown eyes all aglow with eager expectation, and her lips twitched, as she exclaimed,--

"Oh, doctor, I hope everything; for I learn that the pictures were found on the lawn at 'Solitude,'
where Phoebe was once hired as cook; and she recognized the case as the same she had one day
seen on a writing-desk in the parlor. The boy confessed that he picked it up from the grass,
and, after taking out the contents, soaked the case in a bucket of salt-water. Phoebe says
the pictures belong to Mrs. Gerome, the gray-headed woman who owns that place on the beach,
and I am almost tempted to believe she is Elsie, who may have married again. At all events,
I shall soon know where she obtained the portraits."

"You are not going to 'Solitude'?"

"Yes, immediately. I cannot rest till I have learned all. God grant I may not be mocked in
my hopes."

The unwonted excitement had kindled a strange beauty in the whilom passive face, and Dr. Grey
could for the first time realize how lovely she must have been in the happy days of eld.

"Miss Dexter, Mrs. Gerome will not receive you. She sees no visitors, not even ministers of
the gospel."

"She must--she shall--admit me; for I will assure her that life and death hang upon it."

"How so?"

"If Evelyn is alive, and I can discover her retreat, I will urge her to go to her husband,
who needs her care. You know Mrs. Gerome,--she is one of your patients. Come with me, and prevail
upon her to receive me."

In her eagerness she laid her hand on his arm, and even then noticed and wondered at the crimson
that suddenly leaped into his olive face.

"Some day I will give you good reasons for refusing your request, which it is impossible for
me to grant. If you are resolved to hazard the visit, I will take you in my buggy as far as
the gate at 'Solitude,' and when you return will confer with you concerning the result. Just
now, I can promise no more."

An expression of disappointment clouded her brow.

"I had hoped that you would sympathize with and be more interested in my great sorrow."

"Miss Dexter, my interest is more profound, more intense, than you can imagine, but at this
juncture circumstances forbid its expression. My buggy is at the door."

CHAPTER XXX.

Even at mid-day the grounds around "Solitude" were sombre and chill, for across the sky the
winds had woven a thin, vapory veil, whose cloud-meshes seemed fine as lacework; and through
this gilded netting the sun looked hazy, the light wan and yellow, and rifled of its customary
noon glitter.

Following one of the serpentine walks, the governess was approaching the house, when her attention
was attracted by the gleaming surface of a tomb, and she turned towards the pyramidal deodars
that were swaying slowly in the breeze,--

  "Warming their heads in the sun,
  Checkering the grass with their shade,"

and photographing fringy images on the shining marble.

A broad circle of violets, blue with bloom, surrounded a sexangular temple, whose dome was
terminated by a mural crown and surmounted by a cross. The beautifully polished pillars were
fluted, and wreathed with carved ivy that wound up to the richly-sculptured cornices, where
poppies clustered and tossed their leaves along the architrave; and, in the centre, visible
through all the arches, rose an altar, bearing two angels with fingers on their lips, who guarded
an exquisite urn that was inscribed "cor cordium."

Beneath the eastern arch, that directly fronted the sea, were two steps leading into the mausoleum,
and, as Miss Dexter stood within, she saw that the floor was arranged with slabs for only two
tombs close to the altar, one side of which bore in golden tracery,--

  "Elsie Maclean, 68. Amicus Amicorum."

Around the base of the urn were scattered some fresh geranium-leaves, and very near it stood
a tall, slender, Venetian glass vase filled with odorous flowers, which had evidently been
gathered and arranged that day.

For whom had the remaining slab and opposite side of the altar been reserved?

The heart of the governess seemed for a moment to forget its functions, then a vague hope made
it throb fiercely; and rapidly the anxious woman directed her steps towards the house, that
seemed as silent as the grave behind her.

The hall door had swung partially open, and, dreading that she might be refused admittance
if she rang the bell, she availed herself of the lucky accident (which in Elsie's lifetime
never happened), and entered unchallenged and unobserved.

From the parlor issued a rather monotonous and suppressed sound, as of some one reading aloud,
and, advancing a few steps, the governess stood inside the threshold.

The curtains of the south window were looped back, the blinds thrown open, and the sickly sunshine
poured in, lighting the easel, before which the mistress of the house had drawn an ottoman
and seated herself.

To-day, an air of unwonted negligence marked her appearance, usually distinguished by extraordinary
care and taste.

Her white merino robe de chambre was partially ungirded, and the blue tassels trailed on the
carpet; her luxuriant hair instead of being braided and classically coiled, was gathered in
three or four large heavy loops, and fastened rather loosely by the massive silver comb that
allowed one long tress to straggle across her shoulder, while the folds in front slipped low
on her temples and forehead.

Intently contemplating her work, she leaned her cheek on her hand, and only the profile was
visible from the door, as she repeated, in a subdued tone,--

  "I stanch with ice my burning breast,
    With silence balm my whirling brain,
  O Brandan! to this hour of rest,
    That Joppan leper's ease was pain."

The easel held the largest of many pictures, upon which she had lavished time and study, and
her present work was a wide stretch of mid-ocean, lighted by innumerable stars, and a round
glittering polar moon that swung mid-heaven like a globe of silver, and shed a ghostly lustre
on the raging, ragged waves, above which an Aurora Borealis lifted its gleaming arch of mysterious
white fires.

On the flowery shore of a tropic isle, under clustering boughs of lime and citron, knelt the
venerable figure of Saint Brandan,--and upon a towering, jagged iceberg, whose crystal cliffs
and diamond peaks glittered with the ghastly radiance reflected from arctic moon and boreal
flames, lay Judas, pressing his hot palms and burning breast to the frigid bosom of his sailing
sapphire berg.

No hideous, scowling, red-haired arch-apostate was this painted Iscariot,--but a handsome man,
whose features were startlingly like those in the ivory miniature.

It was a wild, dreary, mournful picture, suggestive of melancholy mediæval myths, and most
abnormal phantasms; and would more appropriately have draped the walls of some flagellating
ascetic's cell, than the luxuriously furnished room that now contained it.

Bending forward to deepen the dark circles which suffering and remorse had worn beneath the
brilliant eyes of the apostle, the lonely artist added another verse to her quotation,--

  "Once every year, when carols wake
    On earth the Christmas night's repose,
  Arising from the sinner's lake
    I journey to these healing snows."

The motion loosened a delicate white lily pinned at her throat, and it fell upon the palette,
sullying its purity with the dark paint to which its petals clung. She removed it, looked at
its defaced loveliness, and tossed it aside, saying moodily,--

"Typical of our souls, originally dowered with a stainless and well-nigh perfect holiness,
but drooping dust-ward continually, and once tainted by the fall,--hugging the corruption that
ruined it."

As the governess looked and listened, a half-perplexed, half-frightened expression passed over
her countenance, and at length she advanced to the arch, and said, tremblingly,--

"Can I have a few moments' conversation with Mrs. Gerome, on important business?"

"My God! am I verily mad at last? Because I called up Judas, must I also evoke the partner
of his crime?"

With a thrilling, almost blood-curdling cry Mrs. Gerome had leaped to her feet at the sound
of Miss Dexter's voice, and, dropping palette and brush, confronted her with a look of horror
and hate. The quick and violent movement shook out her comb, and down came the folds of hair,
falling like a silver cataract to her knees.

Bewildered by memories which the face and form recalled, the governess looked at the shining
white locks, and her lips blanched, as she stammered,--

"Are you Mrs. Gerome?"

Her scarlet hood had fallen back, disclosing her wealth of golden hair; and gazing at her thin
but still lovely features, rouged by a hectic glow that lent strange beauty to the wide, brown
eyes, Mrs. Gerome answered, huskily,--

"I am the mistress of this house. Who is the woman who has the audacity to intrude upon my
seclusion, and vividly remind me of one whose hated lineaments have cursed my memory for years?
Woman, if I believed she had the effrontery to thrust herself into my presence, I should fear
that at this instant I am afflicted with the abhorred sight of Edith Dexter, than whom a legion
of devils would be more welcome!"

The name fell hissingly from her stern mouth, and when she shook back the hair that drooped
over her brow, the gray globe-like eyes glittered as polished blue steel under some fitful light.

A low, half-stifled cry escaped the governess, and springing forward she fell on her knees
and grasped the white hands that had clutched each other.

"Evelyn! It must be Evelyn! despite this gray hair and wan, changed face! and I could never
mistake these beautiful, beautiful hands--unlike any others in the world! Evelyn, my lost darling!
oh, I thank God I have found you before I die!"

She covered the cold fingers with kisses, and pressed her face to a band of the floating hair;
but with a gesture of loathing Mrs. Gerome broke away, and retreated a few steps.

"How dare you come into my presence? Goaded by a desire to witness the ruin you helped to accomplish?
Your audacity at least astounds me; but fate decrees you the enjoyment of its reward. Lo! here
I am! Behold the gray shadow of what was once a happy, confiding girl! Behold in the desolate,
lonely woman, who hides her disgrace under the name of Agla Gerome, that bride of an hour,
that Evelyn whose heart you stabbed! Does the wreck entirely satisfy you? What more could even
fiendish malevolence desire?"

"Evelyn, you wrong me. For mercy's sake do not upbraid and taunt me so unjustly!"

In vain she held out her hands imploringly, while tears rolled over her crimsoned cheeks, and
sobs impeded her utterance. Mrs. Gerome laughed bitterly.

"What! I wrong you? Have you gone mad, instead of your victim? Miss Dexter, you and I can scarcely
afford to deal in mock tragedy, and though you make a pretty picture kneeling there, I have
no mind to paint you yonder, where I put your colleague, Judas. Is it not a good likeness of
your lover, as he looked that memorable day when the broad banana-leaves overshadowed his handsome
head?"

She rapped the canvas with her clenched hand, and continued, in accents of indescribable scorn,--

"Do you kneel as penitent or petitioner? You come to crave my pardon, or my husband?"

The governess had bowed her face almost to the carpet, like some fragile flower borne down
by a sudden flood; but now she rose, and, throwing her head back proudly, answered with firm
yet gentle dignity,--

"Of Mrs. Gerome I crave nothing. Of Evelyn Carlyle I demand justice; simply bare justice."

"Justice! You are rash, Miss Dexter, to challenge fate; for, were justice meted out, the burden
would prove more intolerable to you than that King Stork whom Zeus sent down as a Nemesis to
quiet clamorous frogs. Justice, let me tell you, long ago fled from this hostile and inhospitable
earth and took refuge beyond the stars, where, please God, you and I shall one day confront
her and get our long-defrauded dues. Justice? Nay, nay! the thing I recognize as justice would
crush you utterly, and you should flee to the Ultima Thule to avoid it. I divine your mission.
You come as envoy-extraordinary from my honorable and chivalric husband, to demand release
from the bonds that doom me to wear his name and you to live without that spotless ægis? Since
my fortune no longer percolates through the sieve of his pocket, and legal quibbles can not
now avail to wring thousands from my purse, he desires a divorce, in order to remove to your
fair wrists the fetters which have proved more galling to mine than those of iron."

"Evelyn, insult must not be heaped upon injury. As God hears me, I tell you solemnly that you
have seen your husband since I have. Upon Maurice Carlyle's face I have never looked since
that fatal hour when I last saw yours, ghastly and rigid, against the background of guava-boughs.
From that day until this, I have neither seen, nor spoken, nor written to him."

"Then why are you here, to torment me with the sight of your face, which would darken the precincts
of heaven, if I met it inside of the gates of pearl?"

"I have come to exonerate myself from the aspersions that in your frenzy you have cast upon
me. Evelyn, I am here to prove that my wrongs are greater than yours,--and if either should
crave pardon, it would best become you to sue for it at my hands. But for you, I should have
been a happy wife,--blessed with a devoted husband and fond mother; and now in my loneliness
I stand for vindication before her who robbed me of every earthly hope, and blotted all light,
all verdure, all beauty from my life. You had known Maurice Carlyle six weeks, when you gave
him your hand. I had grown up at his side,--had loved, trusted, prayed, and labored for him,--had
been his promised wife for seven dreary years of toil and separation, and was counting the
hours until the moment when he would lead me to the altar. Ah, Evelyn,--"

A violent spell of coughing interrupted the governess, and when it ended she did not complete
the sentence.

Impatiently Mrs. Gerome motioned to her to continue, and, turning her head which had been averted,
the hostess saw that her guest was endeavoring to stanch a stream of blood that trickled across
her lips. Involuntarily the former started forward and drew an easy-chair close to the slender
figure which leaned for support against the corner of the piano.

"Are you ill? Pray sit down."

"It is only a hemorrhage from my lungs, which I have long had reason to expect."

Wearily she sank into the chair, and hastily pouring a glass of water from a gilt-starred crystal
carafe, standing on the centre-table, Mrs. Gerome silently offered it. As the governess drained
and returned the goblet, a drop of blood that stained the rim fell on the hand of the mistress
of the house.

Miss Dexter attempted to remove it with the end of her plaid shawl, but her companion drew
back, and taking a dainty, perfumed handkerchief from her pocket, shook out its folds and said,
hastily,--

"It is of no consequence. I see your handkerchief is already saturated; will you accept mine?"

Without waiting for a reply, she laid it on the lap of the visitor, and left the room.

Soon after, a servant brought in a basin of water and towels, which she placed on the table,
and then, without question or comment, withdrew.

Some time elapsed before Mrs. Gerome re-entered the parlor, bearing a glass of wine in her
hand. Miss Dexter had bathed her face, and, looking up, she saw that the gray hair had been
carefully coiled and fastened, and the flowing merino belted at the waist; but the brow wore
its heavy cloud, and the arch of the lip had not unbent.

"I hope you are better. Permit me to insist upon your taking this wine."

She proffered it, but the governess shook her head, and tears ran down her cheeks, as she said,--

"Thank you,--but I do not require it; indeed I could not swallow it."

The hostess bowed, and, placing the glass within her reach, walked to the window which looked
out on the marble mausoleum, and stood leaning against the cedarn facing.

Five, ten minutes passed, and the silence was only broken by the ticking of the bronze clock
on the mantelpiece.

"Evelyn."

The voice was so sweet, so thrilling, so mournfully pleading, that it might have wooed even
stone to pity; but Mrs. Gerome merely glanced over her shoulder, and said, frigidly,--

"Can I in any way contribute to Miss Dexter's comfort? The servants tell me there is no conveyance
waiting for you; but, since you seem too feeble to walk away, my carriage is at your service
whenever you wish to return. Shall I order it?"

"No, I will not trouble you. I can walk; and, after a little while, I will go away forever.
Evelyn, do you think me utterly unprincipled?"

A moment passed before she was answered.

"While you are in my house, courtesy forbids the expression of my opinion of your character."

"Oh, Evelyn, my darling! God knows I have not merited this harshness, this cruelty from your
dear hands. Eight tedious, miserable years I have searched and prayed for you,--have clung
to the hope of finding you, of telling you all,--of hearing your precious lips utter those
words for which my ears have so long ached, 'Edith, I hold you guiltless of my wretchedness.'
But at last, when my search is successful, to be browbeaten, derided, denounced, insulted,--oh,
this is bitter indeed! This is too hard to be borne!"

Her anguish was uncontrollable, and she sobbed aloud.

Across Mrs. Gerome's white lips crept a quiver, and over her frozen features rose an unwonted
flush; but she did not move a muscle, or suffer her eyes to wander from the cross and crown
on Elsie's tomb.

"Evelyn, I believe, I hope (and may God forgive me if I sin in hoping), that I have not many
years, or perhaps even months to live; and it would comfort me in my dying hour to feel that
I had laid before you some facts, of which I know you must be ignorant. You have harshly and
unjustly prejudged me,--have steeled yourself against me; still I wish to tell you some things
that weigh heavily upon my aching, desolate heart. Will you allow me to do so now? Will you
hear me?"

There was evidently a struggle in the mind of the motionless woman beside the window, but it
was brief, and left no trace in the cold, ringing voice.

"I will hear you."

Slowly and impressively the governess began the narrative, of which she had given Dr. Grey
a hasty résumé, and when she mentioned the midnight labors in which she had engaged, the copying
of legal documents, the sale of her drawings, the hoarding of her salary in order to aid her
mother and her betrothed, and to remove the obstacles to her marriage, Mrs. Gerome sat down,
and, crossing her arms on the window-sill, hid her face upon them.

Unflinchingly Miss Dexter detailed all that occurred after her arrival in New York; and finally,
approaching the window, she insisted that her listener should peruse the last letter received
from her lover, and containing the promise that within ten days he would come to claim his
bride. But the lovely hand waved it aside, and the proud voice exclaimed impatiently,--

"I need no additional proof of his perfidy, which, beyond controversy, was long ago established.
Go on! go on!"

Upon all that followed the ceremony,--the departure of the wife,--and her own despairing grief,
the governess dwelt with touching eloquence and pathos; and, at last, as she spoke of her fruitless
journey to England,--her sad search through the insane asylums,--Mrs. Gerome lifted her queenly
head, and bent a piercing glance upon the speaker.

Ah! what a hungry, eager expression looked out shyly from her whilom hopeless eyes, when, with
an imperious gesture, she silenced her visitor, and asked,--

"You spent your hard earnings, not in trousseau, or preparations for housekeeping; but hunting
for me in lunatic asylums? Suppose you had found me in a mad-house?"

"Then I should have become an inmate of the same gloomy walls; and, while you lived, should
have shared with faithful Elsie the care and charge of you. God is my witness, I had resolved
to dedicate my remaining years to the task of cheering and guarding yours. Oh, Evelyn! not
until we stand in the great Court of Heaven can you realize how sincerely, how tenderly, and
unwaveringly, I love you. My darling, how can you distrust my faithful heart?"

She sank on her knees, and, throwing her arms around the tall, slender form, looked with mournful,
beseeching tenderness at the haughty features above her.

For a moment the proud, pale face glowed,--the great shadowy eyes kindled and shone like wintry
planets in some crystalline sky; but doubt, murderous, cynical doubt, grappled with hope, and
strangled it.

"Edith, I wish I could believe you. I am struggling desperately to lay hold of the fluttering
garments of faith, but I cannot! Suspicion has walked hand in hand with me so long that I cannot
shake off her numbing touch, and I distrust all human things, save the dusty heart that moulders
yonder in my old Elsie's grave."

She pointed to the white columns of the temple, and then the uplifted fingers fell heavily
on Edith's shoulder.

"Go on. I wish to learn whose treachery betrayed the secret of my retreat."

Pressing her feverish lips to the hand she admired so enthusiastically, Miss Dexter resumed
her recital of what had occurred since her journey to London, and finally ended it with an
account of her removal to 'Grassmere,' and of the discovery of the miniatures that guided her
to 'Solitude.'

A long pause followed, and a heavy sigh, only partially smothered, indexed the contest that
raged under Mrs. Gerome's calm exterior.

"Edith, would you have inferred from Dr. Grey's manner that he was not only acquainted with
my history, but yours, at least, so far as it intersected mine? Did he furnish no hint, no
clew, that aided you in your search?"

"None whatever. On the contrary, he appeared so preoccupied, so abstracted, that I reproached
him with indifference to my troubles. It is not possible that he knew all, while I briefly
summed up a portion of the past."

"At that moment he was thoroughly cognizant of everything that I could tell him. But, at least,
one honorable, trustworthy man yet graces the race; one pure, incorruptible, and consistent
Christian remains to shed lustre upon a church that can nowhere boast his peer. I confided
all to Dr. Grey, and he has kept the trust. Ah, Edith, if you had only reposed the same confidence
in me, during those halcyon days of our early friendship,--days that seem to me now as far
off, as dim and unreal, as those starry nights when I lay in my little crib, dreaming of that
mother whose face I never saw, whose smile is one of the surprises and blessings reserved for
eternity,--how different my lot and yours might have been! Why did you not trust me with your
happy hopes, your lover's name and difficulties? How differently I would have invested that
fortune, which proved our common ruin, and doomed three lives to uselessness and woe. To-day
you might have proudly worn the name that I utterly detest; and I, the outcast, the wanderer,
the tireless, friendless waif, drifting despairingly down the tide of time,--even I, the unloved,
might have been, not a solitary cumberer, not a household upas,--but why taunt the hideous
Actual with a blessed and beautiful Impossible? Ah, truly, truly,--

  "'What might have been, I know, is not:
    What must be, must be borne;
  But ah! what hath been will not be forgot,
    Never, oh! never, in the years to follow!'"

She closed her eyes and seemed pondering the past, and mutely the governess prayed that hallowed
memories of their former affection might soften her apparently petrified heart.

Edith saw a great change overspread the countenance, but could not accurately interpret its
import; and her own heart began to beat the long-roll.

The heavy black eyelashes lying on Mrs. Gerome's marble cheeks glistened, trembled, and tears
stole slowly across her face. She raised her hand, but dropped it in her lap, and frowned slightly
and sighed. Then she lifted it once more, and looking through the shining mist that magnified
her splendid eyes, she laid her fingers on the golden head of the kneeling woman.

"You and I have innocently wronged and ruined each other; you with your beauty, I with my accursed
gold. Time was when at your bidding I would have laid my throbbing heart at your feet, provided
I could thereby save you one pang; for I loved you as women very rarely love one another. But
now, lonely and hopeless, I have lost the power, the capacity to love anything, and I have
no heart left in my bosom. I acquit you of much for which I formerly held you responsible,
and I honor the purity of purpose that forbade your receiving the visits or letters of him
who must one day answer for our worthless lives. I fully forgive you the suffering that made
me prematurely old; but my affection is as dead as all my girlish hopes, and buried under the
crushing years that have dragged themselves over my poor, proud, pain-bleached head. You are
more fortunate, more enviable than I, for you have the comforting anticipation of a speedy
release, the precious assurance that your torture will ere long be ended; while I must front
the prospect of perhaps fourscore and ten years: for, despite my ivory skin and fever-blanched
locks, I am maddeningly healthy. Friend of my childhood, friend of my happy, sunny, sinless
days, I cordially congratulate you on your approaching deliverance. God knows I would pay you
my fortune, if I could innocently and successfully inject into my veins and lungs the poison
that will soon rob you of care and regret. If I was harsh to-day, forgive and forget it, for
nothing rankles in the grave; and now, Edith, go away quickly, before I repent and recant the
words I here utter. God comfort you, Edith Dexter, and remember that I hold you guiltless of
my wrecked destiny."

"Oh, Evelyn! add one thing more. Say, 'Edith, I love you.'"

A strangely mournful smile parted Mrs. Gerome's perfect lips over her dazzling teeth, as she
pushed the kneeling figure from her, and said coldly,--

"Rise, and leave me. I love no living thing, brute or human, for even my faithful dog lies
buried a few yards hence. Maurice treated my warm, loving nature, as Tofana did her unsuspecting
victims, and for that slow poison there is no antidote. The sole interest I have in life centres
in my art, and when death mercifully remembers me, some pictures I have patiently wrought out
will be given to the public; and the next generation will, perhaps,--

  'Hear the world applaud the hollow ghost,
  Which blamed the living woman,'

and, smiling grimly in my coffin, I shall echo,--

  'Hither to come, and to sleep,
  Under the wings of renown.'"

Both rose, and the two so long divided faced each other sorrowfully.

"Dear Evelyn, do not hug despair so stubbornly to your bosom. You might brighten your solitary
existence if you would, and be comparatively happy in this lovely seaside home."

"You think 'Solitude' a very desirable and beautiful retreat? Do you remember the gay raiment
and glittering jewels that covered the radiant bride of Giacopone di Todi? One day an accident
at a public festival mangled her mortally, and when her gorgeous garments were torn off, lo!

  'A robe of sackcloth next the smooth, white skin.'"

A sudden pallor crept over the delicate face of the governess, and, folding her hands, she
exclaimed with passionate vehemence,--

"I cannot, I must not shrink from the chief object of my visit here. I came not only to exonerate
myself, but to plead for poor Maurice."

Mrs. Gerome started back, and the pitiless gleam came instantly into her softened eyes.

"Do not mention his name again. I thought you had neither seen nor heard from him."

"I must plead his wretched cause, since he is denied the privilege of appealing to your mercy.
Evelyn, my friends write me that he is almost in a state of destitution. Only last night I
received this letter, which I leave for your perusal, and which assures me he is in want, and,
moreover, is dangerously ill. Who has the right, the privilege,--whose is the duty, imperative
and stern, to hasten to his bedside, to alleviate his suffering, to provide for his needs?
Yours, Evelyn Carlyle, and yours alone. Where are the marriage-vows that you snatched from
my lips eight years ago, and eagerly took upon your own? Did you not solemnly swear in the
presence of heaven and earth to serve him and keep him in sickness, and, forsaking all others,
to hold him from that day forward, for better, for worse, until death did part ye? Oh, Evelyn!
do not scowl, and turn away. However unworthy, he is your husband in the sight of God and man,
and your wedding oath calls you to him in this hour of his terrible need. Can you sleep peacefully,
knowing that he is tossing with paroxysms of pain, and perhaps hungering and thirsting for
that which you could readily supply? If it were right,--if I dared, I would hasten to him;
but my conscience inexorably forbids the thought, and consigns my heart to torture, for which
there is no name. You will tell me that you provided once, twice, for all reasonable wants,--that
he has recklessly squandered liberal allowances. But will that satisfy your conscience, while
you still possess ample means to aid him? Will you permit the man whose name you bear to live
on other charity than your own,--and finally, to fill a pauper's grave? Oh, Evelyn! was it
for this that you took my darling, my idol, from my clinging, loving arms? Will you see his
body writhing in the agony of disease, and his precious, immortal soul in fearful jeopardy,
while you stand afar off, surrounded by every luxury that ingenuity can suggest, and gold purchase?
Oh, Evelyn! be merciful; do your duty. Like a brave, true, though injured woman, go to Maurice,
and strive to make him comfortable; to lighten, by your pardon, his sad, heavily laden heart.
By your past, your memories of your betrothal, your hopes of heaven, and above all, by your
marriage vows, I implore you to discharge your sacred duties."

A bitter smile twisted the muscles about Mrs. Gerome's mouth, as she gazed into the quivering,
eloquent face of her companion, and listened to the impetuous appeal that poured so pathetically
over her burning lips.

"Edith, you amaze me. Is it possible that after all your injuries you can cling so fondly,
so madly, to the man who slighted, and humiliated, and blighted you?"

"Ah! you are his wife, and I am the ridiculed and pitied victim of his flirtation, so says
the world; but my affection outlives yours. Evelyn, I have loved him from the time when I can
first recollect; I loved him with a deathless devotion that neither his unworthiness, nor time,
nor eternity can conquer; and to-day, I tell you that he is dear to me,--dear to me as some
precious corpse, over which a gravestone has gathered moss for eight weary, dreary years. The
angels in heaven would not blush for the feeling in my heart towards Maurice Carlyle; and the
God who must soon judge me will not condemn the pure and sacred love I cherish for the only
man who could ever have been my husband, but whom I have resolutely refused to see, even when
the world believed you dead. I cannot go to him, and comfort, and provide for him now; but,
in the name of God, and your oath, and if not for your own sake, at least for his and for mine,
I ask you once more, Evelyn Carlyle, will you hasten to your erring but unhappy husband?"

Her scarlet cheeks and lips, her glowing brown eyes, and waving yellow hair, formed a singular
contrast to the colorless, cold face of her listener; whose steely gaze was fixed on the distant
sea, that lay like a beryl mirror beneath the hazy sky.

When the sound of the sweet but strained voice had died away, Mrs. Gerome turned her eyes towards
the governess, and answered,--

"I will do my duty, no matter how revolting."

"Thank God! When will you go?"

"If at all, at once."

"Evelyn, when you come home, will you not let me see you, now and then, and win my way back
to my old place in your dear heart? Oh! my pale, peerless darling, do not deny me this."

"Home? I have no home. My heart is grayer than my head,--and your old niche is full of dust,
and skeletons, and murdered hopes. Let me see you no more in this world; and perhaps in the
Everlasting Rest I shall forget my hideous past, which your face recalls."

"Oh, my poor bruised darling! do not banish me," wailed the governess, endeavoring to fold
her arms about the queenly form, which silently but effectually held her back.

"At least, dear Evelyn, let me kiss you once more, in token that you cherish no bitterness
against me."

"Good-by, Edith. I hold you innocent of my injuries. May God help you, and call us both speedily
to our dreamless sleep under moss and marble."

She bent down, and with firm, icy lips, lightly touched the forehead of the governess, and
walked away, unheeding the burst of tears with which the frigid caress was welcomed.

  "And I think, in the lives of most women and men,
    There's a moment when all would go smooth and even,
  If only the dead could find out when
    To come back, and be forgiven."

CHAPTER XXXI.

"Madam, are you aware that you breathe an infected atmosphere?--that this building is assigned
to small-pox cases? Pray do not cross the threshold."

The superintendent of the hospital laid aside his pipe, and advanced to meet the stranger whose
knock had startled him from a post-prandial doze.

"I am not afraid of contagion, and came to see the patient who was brought here yesterday from
No. 139 Elm Street."

"Have you a permit to visit here?"

"Yes; you will find it on this paper, given me by the proper authorities."

"What is the name of the person you desire to see?"

The superintendent opened a book that lay on the table beside him, and drew his finger up and
down the page.

"Maurice Carlyle."

"Ah, yes,--I have it now. Maurice Carlyle, Ward 3,--cot No. 7. Madam, may I ask,--"

"No, sir; I have no inclination to answer idle questions. Will you show me the way, or shall
I find it?"

"Certainly, I will conduct you; but I was about to remark that a death has just occurred in
Ward No. 3, and I am under the impression that it was the Elm Street case. Madam, you look
faint; shall I bring you a glass of water?"

"No. Show me the body of the dead."

"This way, if you please."

He walked down a dim, low-vaulted passage, and paused at the entrance of a room lined with
cots, where the nurse was slowly passing from patient to patient.

"Nurse, show this lady to cot No. 7."

Swiftly the tall figure of the visitor glided down the room, and placing her hand on the arm
of the nurse, she said huskily,--

"Where is the man who has just died? Quick! do not keep me in suspense."

"There, to the right; shall I uncover the face?"

Under the blue check coverlet that was spread smoothly over the cot, the stiff outlines of
a human form were clearly defined; and, when the nurse stooped, the stranger put out one arm
and held him back, while her whole frame trembled violently.

"Stop! be good enough to leave me."

The attendant withdrew a few yards, and curiously watched the queenly woman, who stood motionless,
with her fingers tightly interlaced.

She was dressed in a gray suit of some shining fabric, and a long gossamer veil of the same
hue hung over her features. After a few seconds she swept back the veil, and, as she bent forward,
a stray sunbeam dipped through the closed shutters, and flashed across a white horror-stricken
face, crowned with clustering braids of silver hair.

She shut her eyes an instant, grasped the coverlet, and drew it down; then caught her breath,
and looked at the dead.

It was a young, boyish face, horribly swollen and distorted, and coarse red locks were matted
around his brow and temples.

"Thank God, Maurice Carlyle still lives."

She involuntarily raised her hands towards heaven, and the expression of dread melted from
her countenance.

Slowly and reverently she re-covered the corpse, and approached the nurse.

"I am searching for my husband. Which cot is No. 7?"

"That on your left,--next to the dead."

Mrs. Carlyle turned, and gazed at the bloated crimson mass of disease that writhed on the narrow
bed, and a long shudder crept over her, as she endeavored to discover in that loathsome hideous
visage some familiar feature--some trace of the manly beauty that once rendered it so fascinating.

The swollen blood-shot eyes stared vacantly at the ceiling, and, while delirious muttering
fell upon the ears of the visitor, she saw that his cheeks were somewhat lacerated, and his
hands, partially confined, were tearing at the inflamed flesh.

She shivered with horror, and a groan broke from her pitying heart.

"What an awful retribution! My God, have mercy upon him! He is sufficiently punished."

Drawing her perfumed lace handkerchief from her pocket, she leaned over and wiped away the
bloody foam that oozed across his lips, and lifting his hot head turned it sufficiently to
expose the right ear, where a large mole was hidden by the thick hair.

"Maurice Carlyle! But what a fearful wreck?"

She covered her eyes with her hand, and moaned.

The nurse came nearer, and said hesitatingly,--

"Madam, surely he is not your husband? His clothes are almost in tatters, while yours are--ahem!--"

"Spare me all comments on the comparison. Can I obtain a comfortable, quiet room, in this building,
and have him removed to it at once? You hesitate? I will compensate you liberally, will pay
almost any price for an apartment where he can at least have silence and seclusion."

"We can accommodate you, but of course if the patient is carried from this ward to a private
room, we shall be compelled to charge extra."

"Charge what you choose, only arrange the matter as promptly as possible. How soon can you
make the change?"

"In twenty minutes, madam."

The nurse rang for an assistant, to whom the necessary instructions were given, and in the
interim Mrs. Carlyle leaned against the cot, and brushed away the flies that buzzed about the
pitiable victims.

Two men carried the sufferer up a flight of steps, and ere long he was transferred to a large
comfortable bed in an airy, well-furnished apartment.

The removal had not been completed more than an hour, when the surgeon made his evening round,
and followed the patient to his new quarters.

He paused at sight of the elegantly dressed woman who sat beside the bed, and said, stammeringly,--

"I am informed that No. 7 is your husband, and that you have taken charge of his case, and
intend to nurse him. Have you had small-pox?"

"No, sir."

"Madam, you run a fearful risk."

"I fully appreciate the hazard, and am prepared to incur it. Do you regard this case as hopeless?"

"Not altogether, though the probabilities are that it will terminate fatally."

"I have had too little experience to warrant my undertaking the management of the case, and,
while I intend to remain here, I wish you to engage the services of some trustworthy nurse
who understands the treatment of this disease. Can you recommend such a person?"

"Yes, madam; I can send you a man in whom I have entire confidence, and fortunately he is not
at present employed. If you desire it, I will see him within the next hour, and give him all
requisite instructions about the patient."

"Promptness in this matter will greatly oblige me, and I wish to spare no expense in contributing
to the comfort and restoration of the sufferer. As I am utterly unknown to you, I prefer to
place in your hands a sufficient amount to defray all incidental expenditures."

She laid a roll of bills upon the table, and as Dr. Clingman counted them, she added,--

"It is possible that I may be attacked by this disease, though I have been repeatedly vaccinated;
and if I should die, please recollect that you will find in my purse a memorandum of the disposition
I wish made of my body,--also the address of my agent and banker in New York City."

With mingled curiosity and admiration the physician looked at the pale, handsome woman, who
spoke of death as coldly and unconcernedly as of to-morrow's sun, or next month's moon.

"Madam, allow me to ask if you have no friends in this city,--no relatives nearer than New York?"

"None, sir. It is my wish that our conversation should be confined to the symptoms and treatment
of your patient."

Dr. Clingman bowed, and, after writing minute instructions upon a sheet of paper left on the
mantelpiece, took his departure.

Securing the door on the inside, Mrs. Carlyle threw aside her bonnet and wrappings, and came
back to the sufferer on the bed.

Eight years of reckless excess and dissipation had obliterated every vestige of manly beauty
from features that disease now rendered loathsome, and the curling hair and long beard were
unkempt and grizzled.

Leaning against the pillow, the lonely woman bent over to scrutinize the distorted, burning
face, and softly took into her cool palms one hot and swollen hand, which in other days she
had admiringly stroked, and tenderly pressed against her cheek and lips. How totally unlike
that countenance, which, handsome as Apollyon, had looked down at her on her bridal day, and
fondly whispered--"my wife."

Memory mercilessly broke open sealed chambers in that wretched woman's heart, and out of one
leaped a wail that made her tremble and moan,--"Oh, Evelyn, my wife, forgive your husband."

Slowly compassion began to bridge the dark gulf of separation and hate, and as the wife gazed
at the writhing form of her husband, her stony face softened, and tears gathered in the large,
mournful eyes.

"Ah, Maurice! This world has proved a huge cheat to you and to me,--and well-nigh cost us all
peace in the next one. My husband, yet my bitterest foe,--my first, my last, my only love!
If I could recall one throb of the old affection, one atom of the old worshipping tenderness
and devotion,--but it has withered; my heart is scorched and ashen,--and neither love nor hope
haunts its desolate ruins. Poor, polluted, down-trodden idol! Maurice--Maurice--my husband,
I have come. Evelyn, your wife, forgives you, as she hopes for pardon at the hands of her God."

Kneeling beside the bed, with her snowy fingers clasped around his, she bowed her head, and
humbly prayed for his soul, and for her own; and, when the petition ended, that peace which
this world can never give,--which had so long been exiled, fluttered back and brooded once
more in her storm-riven heart.

Softly she lifted and smoothed the long tangled hair that clung to his forehead, and tears
dripped upon his scarlet face, as she said; brokenly,--

"Till death us do part! Poor Maurice! Deserted and despised by your former parasites. After
long years, my vows bring me back in the hour of your need. God grant you life, to redeem your
past,--to save your sinful soul from eternal ruin."

Suns rose and set, weary days and solemn nights of vigil succeeded each other, and tirelessly
the wife and hired nurse watched the progress of the dreadful disease. Occasionally Mr. Carlyle
talked deliriously, and more than once the name of Edith Dexter hung on his lips, and was coupled
with tenderer terms than were ever bestowed on the woman who wore his own. Bending over his
pillow, the pale watcher heard and noted all, and a sad pitying smile curved her mouth now
and then, as she realized that the one holy love of this man's life triumphed over the wreck
of fortune, health, and hope, and kept its hold upon the heart that long years before had sold
itself to Lucifer.

Sleeplessly, faithfully, she went to and fro in that darkened room, whose atmosphere was tainted
by infection, and at last she found her reward. The crisis was safely passed, and she was assured
the patient would recover.

The apartment was so dimly lighted that Mr. Carlyle took little notice of his attendants, but
one afternoon when the nurse had gone to procure some refreshments, the sick man turned on
his pillow, and looked earnestly at the woman who was engaged in writing at a table near the bed.

"Mrs. Smith."

Mrs. Carlyle rose and approached him.

"Are you Mrs. Smith,--my landlady?"

"No, sir. I am merely your nurse."

"My nurse? What is the matter with me?"

"Small-pox,--but the danger is now over."

"Small-pox! Where did I catch it? Am I still in Elm Street?"

"No, sir; you are in the hospital."

Shading his inflamed eyes with his hand, he mused for some moments, and she saw a perplexed
and sorrowful expression cross his features.

"Is there any danger of my dying?"

"That danger is past."

"What is your name?"

"Mrs. Gerome."

"Stand a little closer to me. I find I am almost blind. Mrs. Gerome? Your voice is strangely
like one that I have not heard for many years,--and it carries me back,--back--to--" He sighed,
and pressed his fingers over his eyes.

After a few seconds, he said,--

"Do give me some water. I am as parched as Dives."

She lifted his head and put the glass to his lips,--and while he drank, his eyes searched her
face, and lingered admiringly on her beautiful hand.

"Are you a regular nurse at this hospital?"

"I am engaged for your case."

"I see no pock-marks on your skin; it is as smooth as ivory. Shall I escape as lightly?"

"It is impossible to tell. Here comes your dinner."

He caught her arm, and gazed earnestly at her.

"Is your hair really so white, or is it merely an illusion of my inflamed eyes?"

"There is not a dark hair in my head; it is as white as snow."

While the nurse prepared the food and arranged it on the table, Mrs. Carlyle hastily collected
several articles scattered about the apartment, and softly opened the door.

Standing there a moment, she looked back at the figure comfortably elevated on pillows, and
a long sigh of relief crossed her lips.

"Thank God! I have done my duty, and now he needs me no longer. Next time I see your face,
Maurice Carlyle, I hope it will be at the last bar, in the final judgment; and then may the
Lord have mercy upon us both."

The words were breathed inaudibly, and, closing the door gently, she hurried down the steps
and in the direction of a small room which Dr. Clingman had converted into an office.

As she entered, he looked up and pushed back his spectacles.

"What can I do for you?"

"A little thing, which will cost you no trouble, but will greatly oblige me. Doctor, I have
found you a kind and sympathizing gentleman, and am grateful for the delicate consideration
with which you have treated me. Mr. Carlyle is beyond danger, and I shall leave him in your
care. When he is sufficiently strong to be removed, I desire that you will give him this letter,
which contains a check payable to his order. There, examine it, and be so good as to write
me a receipt."

Silently he complied, and when she had re-enclosed the check and sealed the envelope she placed
it in his hand.

"Dr. Clingman, is there any other place to which small-pox cases can be carried? To-day I have
discovered some symptoms of the disease in my own system, and I feel assured I shall be ill
before this time to-morrow."

"My dear madam, why not remain here?"

"Because I do not wish to be discovered by Mr. Carlyle, and forced to meet him again. I prefer
to suffer, and, if need be, die, alone and unknown."

"If you will trust yourself to me, and to a faithful female nurse whom I can secure, I promise
you, upon my honor as a gentleman, that I will allow no one else to see you, living or dead.
My dear madam, I beg you to reconsider, and remain where I can watch over, and perhaps preserve
your life. I dreaded this. You are feverish now."

Wearily she swept her hand across her forehead, and a dreary smile flitted over her wan features.

"My life is a worthless, melancholy thing, useless to others, and a crushing burden to me;
and I might as well lay it down here as elsewhere. I accept your promise, Dr. Clingman, and
hope you will obtain a room in the quiet and secluded portion of the building. If I should
be so fortunate as to die, do not forget the memorandum in this purse. I leave my body in your
care, my soul in the hands of Him who alone can give it rest."

  "The burden of my days is hard to bear,
    But God knows best;
  And I have prayed,--but vain has been my prayer,--
    For rest--for rest."

CHAPTER XXXII.

"Miss Dexter, have you succeeded in seeing Mrs. Gerome since her return?"

"No, sir; she obstinately refuses to admit me, though I have called twice at the house. Yesterday
I received a letter in answer to several that I have addressed to her, all of which she returned
unopened. Since you have already learned so much of our melancholy history, why should I hesitate
to acquaint you with the contents of her letter? You know the object of her journey north,
and I will read you the result."

The governess drew a letter from her pocket, and Dr. Grey leaned his face on his hand and listened.

  "SOLITUDE, May 10th, 18--.

  "Edith,--No lingering vestige of affection, no remorseful
  tenderness, prompted that mission from which I have recently
  returned, and only the savage scourgings of implacable duty could
  have driven me, like a galley-slave, to my hated task. The victim
  of a horrible and disfiguring disease which so completely changed
  his countenance that his own mother would scarcely have recognized
  him,--and the tenant of a charity hospital in the town of ----, I
  found that man who has proved the Upas of your life and of mine.
  During his delirium I watched and nursed him--not lovingly (how
  could I?) but faithfully, kindly, pityingly. When all danger was
  safely passed, and his clouded intellect began to clear itself, I
  left him in careful hands, and provided an ample amount for his
  comfortable maintenance in coming years. I spared him the
  humiliation of recognizing in his nurse his injured and despised
  wife; and, as night after night I watched beside the pitiable
  wreck of a once handsome, fascinating, and idolized man, I fully
  and freely forgave Maurice Carlyle all the wrongs that so
  completely stranded my life. To-day he is well, and probably
  happy, while he finds himself possessed of means by which to
  gratify his extravagant tastes; but how long his naturally fine
  constitution can hold at bay the legion of ills that hunt like
  hungry wolves along the track of reckless dissipation, God only
  knows.

  "For some natures it is exceedingly difficult to forgive,--to
  forget, impossible; and while my husband's abject wretchedness and
  degradation disarmed the hate that has for so many years rankled
  in my heart, I could never again look willingly upon his face.
  Edith, you and I have nothing in common but miserable memories,
  which, I beg you to believe, are sufficiently vivid, without the
  torturing adjunct of your countenance; therefore, pardon me if I
  decline to receive your visits, and return the letters that are
  quite as welcome and cheering to my eyes as the little shoes and
  garments of the long-buried dead to the mother, who would fain
  look no more upon the harrowing relics. I do not wish to be harsh,
  but I must be honest, and our intercourse can never be renewed in
  this world.

  "In bygone days, when I loved you so fondly and trusted you so
  fully, it was my intention to share my fortune with you; and,
  since I find that you have not forfeited my confidence in the
  purity of your purposes, such is still my wish. I enclose a draft
  on my banker, which I hope you will deem sufficient to enable you
  to abandon the arduous profession in which you have worn out your
  life. If I can feel assured that I have been instrumental in
  contributing to the peace and ease of the years that may yet be in
  store for you, it will serve as one honeyed drop to sweeten the
  dregs of the cup of woe I am draining. Edith, do not refuse the
  only aid I can offer you in your loneliness; and accept the
  earnest assurance that I shall be grateful for the privilege of
  promoting your comfort. Affection and trust I have not, and a few
  paltry thousands are all I am now able to bestow. By the love you
  once professed, and in the name of that compassion you should feel
  for me, I beg of you, despise not the gift; and let the
  consciousness that I have saved you from toil and fatigue quiet
  the soul and ease the heart of a lonely woman, who has shaken
  hands with every earthly hope. I have done my duty, my conscience
  is calm and contented, and I sit wearily on the stormy shore of
  time, waiting for the tide that will drift into eternity the
  desolate, proud soul of

  "VASHTI CARLYLE."

Tears rolled over the governess' cheeks, and, refolding the letter, she said, sorrowfully,--

"My poor, heart-broken Vashti! She has resumed the name which old Elsie gave her because it
was her mother's; and how mournfully appropriate it has proved. I could be happy if permitted
to spend the residue of my days with her; but she decrees otherwise, and I have no alternative
but submission to her imperious will."

Dr. Grey did not lift his face where the shadow of a great, voiceless grief hung heavily, and
his low tone indexed deep and painful emotion, when he answered,--

"I sincerely deplore her unfortunate decision, for isolation only augments the ills from which
she suffers. Many months have elapsed since I saw her last, but Robert Maclean told me to-day
that she was sadly changed in appearance, and seemed in feeble health. She did not tell you
that she had been dangerously ill with varioloid, contracted while nursing her husband. Although
not in the least marked or disfigured, the attack must have seriously impaired her constitution,
if all that Robert tells me be true. Since her return, one month ago, she has not left her room."

"Dr. Grey, exert your influence in my behalf, and prevail upon her to admit me."

"Miss Dexter, you ascribe to me powers of persuasion which, unfortunately, I do not possess;
and Mrs. Carlyle's decree is beyond the reach of human agency. To the few who are earnestly
interested in her welfare, there remains but one avenue of aid and comfort,--faithful, fervent
prayer."

"Perhaps you are not aware of the exalted estimate she places on your character, nor of the
value she attaches to your opinions. Of all living beings, she told me she reverenced and trusted
you most; and you, at least, would not be denied access to her presence."

She could not see the tremor on his usually firm lips, nor the pallor that overspread his face,
and when he spoke his grave voice did not betray the tumult in his aching heart.

"I am no longer a visitor at 'Solitude,' and shall not see its mistress unless she requires
my professional aid. While I am very deeply interested in her happiness, I could never consent
to intrude upon her seclusion."

"I know my days are numbered, and after a little while I shall sleep well under the ancient
cedars that shade the head-stones of my father and mother; but I could die more cheerfully,
more joyfully, if Evelyn would only be comforted, and accept some human friendship."

"For some weeks you have seemed so much better that I hoped warm weather would quite relieve
and invigorate you. Spend next winter in Cuba or Mexico, and it will probably add many months,
possibly years, to your life."

She smiled, and shook her head.

"This beautiful springtime has temporarily baffled the disease, but for me there can be no
restoration. Day by day I feel the ebbing of strength and energy, and the approach of my deliverer,
death; but I realize also, what the Centaur uttered to Melampus, 'I decline unto my last days
calm as the setting of the constellations; but I feel myself perishing and passing quickly
away, like a snow-wreath floating on the stream.'"

As he looked at the thin, pure face where May sunshine streamed warm and bright, and marked
the perfect peace that brooded over the changed features, Dr. Grey was reminded of the lines
that might have been written for her, so fully were they suited to her case,--

  "I saw that one who lost her love in pain,
    Who trod on thorns, who drank the loathsome cup;
  The lost in night, in day was found again;
    The fallen was lifted up.
  They stood together in the blessed noon,
    They sang together through the length of days;
  Each loving face bent sunwards, like a moon
    New-lit with love and praise."

"My friend, the shadows are passing swiftly from your life, and, in the mild radiance of its
close, you can well afford to forget the storms that clouded its dawn."

"Forget? No, Dr. Grey, I neither endeavor nor desire to forget the sorrows that first taught
me the emptiness of earthly things, the futility of human schemes,--that snapped the frail
reed of flesh to which I clung, and gave me, instead, the blessed support, the immovable arm
of an everlasting God. Ah! that woman was deeply versed in the heart-lore of her own sex, who
wrote,--

  'When I remember something which I had,
  But which is gone, and I must do without,

       *       *       *       *       *

  When I remember something promised me,
    But which I never had, nor can have now,
  Because the promiser we no more see
    In countries that accord with mortal vow;
  When I remember this, I mourn,--but yet
    My happier days are not the days when I forget.'"

"If Mrs. Carlyle possessed a tithe of your faith and philosophy, how serene, how tranquilly
useful her future years might prove."

"In God's own good time her trials will be sanctified to her eternal peace, and she will one
day glide from grief to glory, for she can claim the promise of our Lord, 'The pure in heart
shall see God.' No purer heart than Vashti Carlyle's throbs this side of the throne where seraphim
and cherubim hover."

In the brief silence that succeeded, the governess observed the unusually grave and melancholy
expression of her companion's countenance, and asked, timidly,--

"Has anything occurred recently to distress or annoy you? You look depressed."

"I feel inexpressibly anxious about Salome, concerning whose fate I can learn nothing that
is comforting. In reply to my letter, urging him to make every effort to ascertain her locality
and condition, Professor V---- writes, that he is now a confirmed invalid, confined to his
room, and unable to conduct the search for his missing pupil. She left Palermo on a small vessel
bound for Monaco, and her farewell note stated that all attempts to discover her retreat would
prove futile, as she was resolved to preserve her incognito, and wished her friends in America
to remain in ignorance of her mode of life. Professor V---- surmises that she is in Paris,
but gives no good reason for the conjecture, except that she possibly sought the best medical
advice for the treatment of her throat and recovery of her voice. His last letter, received
yesterday, informed me that one of Salome's most devoted admirers, a Bostonian of immense wealth,
was so deeply grieved by her inexplicable disappearance that he was diligently searching for
her in Leghorn and Monaco. She left Palermo alone, and with a comparatively empty purse."

"Dr. Grey, are you aware of the suspicions which Muriel has long entertained with reference
to Mr. Granville's admiration of Salome, and the efforts of the latter to encourage his attentions?"

"I have very cogent reasons for believing that however amenable to censure Mr. Granville doubtless
is, Muriel's distrust of Salome is totally unjust. If she were capable of the despicable course
my ward is disposed to impute to her, I should cease to feel any interest in her career or
fate; but I cherish the conviction that she would scorn to be guilty of conduct so ignoble.
Her defects of character I shall neither deny nor attempt to palliate, but I trust her true
womanly heart as I trust my own manly honor; and a stern sense of justice to the absent constrains
me to vindicate her from Muriel's hasty and unfounded aspersions. So strong is my faith in
Salome's conscientiousness, so earnest my friendship for her, that since the receipt of Professor
V----'s letter I have determined to go immediately to Europe, and if possible discover her
retreat. My sister's adopted child must not and shall not suffer and struggle among strangers,
while I live to aid and protect her."

Miss Dexter rose and laid her thin, feverish hand on his arm, while embarrassment made her
voice tremble slightly,--

"I am rejoiced to learn your decision, and God grant you speedy success in your quest. Do not
deem me presumptuous or impertinent if, prompted by a sincere desire to see you happy, I venture
to say, that he who lightly values the pure, tender, devoted love of such a woman as Salome
Owen,--tramples on treasures that would make his life affluent and blessed--that neither gold
can purchase nor royalty compel. Under your guidance, moulded by your influence, she would
become a noble woman,--of whom any man might justly be proud."

Fearful that she had already incurred his displeasure, and unwilling to meet his eye, she turned
quickly and made her escape through the open door.

In the bright glow of that lovely spring day, the calm face of Ulpian Grey seemed scarcely
older than on the afternoon when he came to make the farm his home; and though paler, and ciphered
over by the leaden finger of anxiety, it indexed little of the long, fierce strife, that conscience
had waged with heart.

Lighter and more impulsive natures expend themselves in spasmodic and violent ebullitions,
but the great deep of this man's serene character had never stirred, until the one mighty love
of his life had lashed it into a tempest that tossed his hopes like sea-froth, and finally
engulfed the only rosy dream of wedded happiness that had ever flushed his quiet, solitary,
sedate existence.

Having kept his heart in holy subjection to the law of Christ, he did not quail and surrender
when the great temptation rose, bearing the banner of insurrection; but sternly and dauntlessly
fronted the shock, and kept inviolate the citadel, garrisoned by an invincible and consecrated
will.

The yearning tenderness of his strong, tranquil soul, had enfolded Mrs. Carlyle, drawing her
more and more into the penetralia of his affection; but from the hour in which he learned her
history he had torn away the clinging tendrils of love,--had endeavored to expel her from his
heart, and to stifle its wail for the lost idol.

Week after week, month after month, he had driven every day within sight of the blue smoke
that curled above the trees at "Solitude," but never even for an instant checked his horse
to gaze longingly towards the Eden whence he had voluntarily exiled himself.

There were hours when his heart ached for the sight of that white face he had loved so madly,
and the sound of the mournfully sweet voice,--and his hand trembled at the recollection of
the soft, cold, snowy fingers, that once thrilled his palms; but he treated these utterances
of his heart as mercilessly as the hunter who cheers his dogs in the chase where the death-cry
of the victim rings above bark and halloo.

No wall of division, no sea of separation, would have proved so effectual, so insurmountable,
as his own firm resolve that his earthly path should never cross that of one whom God's statutes
had set apart until death annulled the decree. In this torturing ordeal he was strengthened
by the conviction that he alone suffered for his folly,--that Mrs. Carlyle was a stranger to
feelings that robbed him of sleep, and clouded his days,--that the heaving tide of his devoted
love had broken against her frozen heart as idly as the surges of the sea that die in foam
upon the dreary, mysterious ruins of the Serapeon at Pozzuoli.

In the silent watches of the night, as he pondered the brief, beautiful vision that had so
completely fascinated him, he reverently thanked God that the woman he loved had never reciprocated
his affection, and was not sitting in the ashes of desolation, mourning his absence. Striving
to interest himself more and more in Stanley and Jessie, who had become inordinately fond of
him, his thoughts continually reverted to Salome, and that subtle sympathy which springs from
the "fellow-being," that makes us "wondrous kind" to those whose pangs are fierce as ours,
began faintly and shyly, but surely, to assert itself. A shadowy, intangible self-reproach
brooded like a phantom over his generous heart, when, amidst the uncertainty that seemed to
overhang the orphan's fate, he remembered the numberless manifestations of almost idolatrous
affection which he had coldly repulsed.

In the earnest interest that day by day deepened in the absent girl, there was no pitiable
vanity, no inflated self-love, but a stern realization of the anguish and humiliation that
must now be her portion, and a magnanimous eagerness to endeavor to cheer a heart whose severest
woes had sprung from his indifference.

More than a year had elapsed, and no letter had ever reached him,--not even a message in her
two brief epistles to Stanley, and Dr. Grey missed the bright, perverse element that no longer
thwarted him at every turn.

He longed to see the proud, girlish face, with its flashing eyes, and red lips, and the haughty
toss of the large, handsome head; and the angry tones of her voice would have been welcome
sounds in the house where she had so long tyrannized. To-day, as Ulpian Grey sat in his own
little sitting-room, his eyes were fixed on a copy of Rembrandt's Nicholas Tulp, which hung
over the mantelpiece; but the mysteries of anatomy no longer riveted his attention, and his
thoughts were busy with memories of a fond though wayward girl, whom his indifference had driven
to foreign lands,--to unknown and fearful perils.

Through the windows stole the breath of Salome's violets, and the sweet, spicy odor of the
Belgian honeysuckle that she had planted and twined around the mossy columns that supported
the gallery; and with a sigh he closed his eyes, shut out the anatomy of flesh, and began the
dissection of emotions.

Could Salome's radiant face brighten his home, and win his heart from its devouring regret?
Would it be possible for him to give her the place whence he had ejected Mrs. Carlyle? Could
he ever persuade himself to call that fair, passionate young thing, that capricious, obstinate,
maliciously perverse girl,--his wife?

Involuntarily he frowned, for while pity pleaded for the refugee from home and happiness, the
man's honest nature scouted all shams, and he acknowledged to himself that he could never feel
the need of her lips or hands,--could never insult her womanhood, or degrade his own nature,
by folding to his heart one whose touch possessed no magnetism, whose presence exerted no spell
over his home.

Salome, his friend, his adopted sister, he wished to discover, to claim, and restore to the
household; but Salome, his wife,--was a monstrous imaginary incubus that appalled and repelled him.

The difficulties that presented themselves at the outset of his search would have discouraged
a less resolute temperament, but it was part of his wise philosophy, that--

  "We overstate the ills of life. We walk upon
  The shadow of hills across a level thrown,
  And pant like climbers."

As a pitying older brother, he thought of Salome's many foibles,--of her noble intentions and
ignoble executions,--of her few feeble triumphs, her numerous egregious failures in the line
of duty; and loving Christian charity pleaded eloquently for her, whispering to his generous
soul, "We know the ships that come with streaming pennons into the immortal ports; but we know
little of the ships that have taken fire on the way thither,--that have gone down at sea."

What pure friendship could accomplish he would not withhold, and life at the farm was not so
attractive now that he felt regret at the prospect of temporary absence.

The disappointment that had so rudely smitten to the earth the one precious hope born of his
acquaintance with "Solitude," had no power to embitter his nature,--to drape the world in drab,
or to shroud the future with gloom; and though his noble face was sadder and paler, Christian
faith and resignation rang blessed chimes of peace in heart and soul, and made his life a hallowed
labor of love for the needy and grief-stricken. To-day, as he sat alone at the south window,
he could overlook the fields of "Grassmere," where the rich promise of golden harvest "filled
in all beauty and fulness the emerald cup of the hills," and the waving grain rippled in light
and shade like the billows of some distant sunset sea. Basking in the balmy sunshine, and contemplating
his approaching departure for Europe, a sudden longing seized him to look once more on the
face of Vashti Carlyle, before he bade farewell to his home.

She was in feeble health, and might not survive his absence, and, moreover, what harm could
result from one final visit to "Solitude,"--from a few parting words to its desolate mistress?
She had sent a message through Robert, that she would be glad to see Dr. Grey whenever he could
find leisure to call, and now hungry heart and soul cried out savagely,--

"Why not? Why not?"

His heavy brows knitted a little, and his mouth grew rigid as iron, but after some moments
the lips relaxed, and with a sad, patient smile, he repeated those stirring words of Richter
to Herman,--"Suffer like a man the Alp-pressure of fate. Trust yourself upon the broad, shining
wings of your faith, and make them bear you over the Dead Sea, so as not to fall spiritually
dead within."

"No, no, Ulpian Grey,--keep yourself 'unspotted from the world.' Strangle that one temptation
which borrows the garments of an angel of light and mercy, and dogs you, sleeping and waking.
I will see her no more till death snaps her fetters, and I can meet her in the presence of
God, who alone can know what separation costs me. May He grant her strength to bear her lonely
lot, and give me grace to be patient even unto the end, bringing no reproach on the sacred
faith I profess."

It was the final struggle between love and duty, and though the vanquished heart wailed piteously,
exultant conscience, like Jupiter of old, triumphantly applauded, "Evan, evoe!"

CHAPTER XXXIII.

"Wanted!--Information of Salome Owen, who will confer a favor on her friends, and secure a
handsome legacy by calling at No. -- ----."

"Dr. Grey, for six months this advertisement has appeared every morning in two of the most
popular journals in Paris, and as it has elicited no clew to her whereabouts, I am reluctantly
compelled to believe that she is no longer in France."

Mr. Granville refolded the newspaper, and busied himself in filling and lighting his meerschaum.

"By whom was that notice inserted?"

"By M. de Baillu, the agent and banker of Mr. Minge of Boston, who was warmly and sincerely
attached to your protégée, and earnestly endeavored to marry her. When she left Palermo, Mr.
Minge came to this city and solicited my aid in discovering her retreat."

"Pardon me, but why did he apply to you?"

"Simply because he knew that I was an old acquaintance, and he had seen me with her, when she
first came from America."

"How did you ascertain her presence in Paris?"

"Accidentally; one night, at the opera, whither she accompanied Professor V----, I recognized
her, and of course made myself known. To what shall I ascribe the honor of this rigid cross-questioning?"

"To reasons which I shall very freely give you. But first, permit me to beg that you will resume
your narrative at the point where I interrupted you. I wish to learn all that can be told concerning
Mr. Minge."

"He was an elderly man of ordinary appearance, but extraordinary fortune, and seemed completely
fascinated by Salome's beauty. He offered a large reward to the police for any clew that would
enable him to discover her, and finally found the physician whom she had consulted with reference
to some disease of the throat, which occasioned the loss of her voice. He had prescribed for
her several times, but knew nothing of her lodging-place, as she always called at his office;
and finally, without assigning any reason, her visits ceased. Mr. Minge redoubled his exertions,
and at last found her in one of the hospitals connected with a convent. The Sisters of Charity
informed him that one bleak day when the rain was falling drearily, they chanced to see a woman
stagger and drop on the pavement before their door, and, hurrying to her assistance, discovered
that she had swooned from exhaustion. A bundle of unfinished needlework was hidden under her
shawl, and they soon ascertained that she was delirious from some low typhus fever that had
utterly prostrated her. For several weeks she was dangerously ill, and was just able to sit
up when Mr. Minge discovered her. He told me that it was distressing and painful beyond expression
to witness her humiliation, her wounded pride, her defiant rejection of his renewed offer of
marriage. One day he took his sister Constance and a minister of the gospel to the hospital,
and implored Salome to become his wife, then and there. He said she wept bitterly, and thanked
him, thanked his sister also, but solemnly assured him she could never marry any one,--she
would sooner starve in the--"

Dr. Grey raised his hand, signalling for silence, and for some moments he leaned his forehead
against the chair directly in front of him.

Mr. Granville cleared his throat several times, and loosened his neck-tie, which seemed to
impede his breathing.

"Shall I go on? There is little more to tell."

"If you please, Granville."

"Mr. Minge would not abandon the hope of finally persuading her to accept his hand, but next
day when he called to inquire about her health, and to request the sisters to watch her movements,
and prevent her escape, he was shocked to learn that she had disappeared the previous night,
leaving a few lines written in pencil on a handkerchief, in which she had wrapped her superb
suit of hair. They were addressed to the Sisters of Charity, and briefly expressed her gratitude
for their kindness in providing for her wants, while she assured them that as soon as possible
she would return and compensate them for their services in her behalf. Meantime, knowing the
high price of hair, she had carefully cut off her own, which was unusually long and thick,
and tendered it in part payment. When she was taken into the building, her nurse found concealed
in her dress a very elegant watch, bearing her name in diamond letters, and she requested that
the sisters would hold it in pawn, until she was able to redeem it. During her illness, it
had been locked up, and they supposed she left it, fearing that an application for it would
arouse suspicions of her intended flight. Mr. Minge bought the hair and handkerchief, and,
after a liberal remuneration for their care of the invalid, he took charge of the watch, and
left his address to be given her when she called for her property. That her mind had become
seriously impaired, there can be little doubt, since nothing but insanity can explain her refusal
to accept one of the handsomest estates in America. Unfortunately, a few days subsequent to
her departure from the hospital, Mr. Minge was taken very violently ill with pneumonia, and
died. Conscious of his condition, he prepared a codicil to his will, and bequeathed to Salome
twenty-five thousand dollars, and an elegant house and lot in New York City. He exacted from
his sister a solemn promise that she would leave no means untried to ferret out the wanderer,
to whom he was so devotedly attached; and, should all efforts fail, at the expiration of five
years the legacy should revert to the hospital which had sheltered her in the hour of her destitution.
The watch he left with his sister Constance; the hair, he ordered buried with him. Three months
have elapsed, and no tidings have reached Miss Minge, who remains in Paris for the purpose
of complying with her brother's dying request."

"My poor, perverse Salome! To what desperate extremities has she been reduced by her unfortunate
wilfulness. Gerard, will you tell me frankly your own conjecture concerning her fate?"

"If alive, I believe she has left Europe."

"Upon what do you base your supposition?"

"Mr. Minge was convinced that her attachment to some one in America was the insurmountable
barrier to his success as a suitor; and, if so, she probably returned to her native land. Dr.
Grey, I will speak candidly to you of a matter which has doubtless given you some disquiet.
Muriel informs me that you have no confidence in the sincerity of my attachment to her, and
that upon that fact is founded your refusal to allow the consummation of our engagement, so
long as she continues your ward. I confess I am not free from censure, but, while I have acted
weakly, I am not devoid of principle. Sir, I was strangely and powerfully attracted to Salome
Owen, and she exerted a species of fascination over me which I scarcely endeavored to resist.
In an evil hour, infatuated by her face and her marvellous voice, I was wild enough to offer
her my hand, and resolved to ask Muriel to release me. Dr. Grey, even at my own expense, I
wish to exonerate Salome, who never for an instant, by word or look, encouraged my madness.
She repulsed my advances, refused every attention, and when I rashly uttered words, which,
I admit, were treasonable to Muriel, she almost overwhelmed me with her fiery contempt and
indignation,--threatening to acquaint Muriel with my inconstancy, and appealing to my honor
as a gentleman to keep inviolate my betrothal vows. Dr. Grey, if my heart temporarily wandered
from its allegiance to your ward, it was not Salome's fault, for in every respect her conduct
towards me was that of a noble, unselfish woman, who scorned to gratify her vanity at the expense
of another's happiness. She shamed me out of my folly, and her stern honesty and nobility saved
me from a brief and humiliating career of dishonorable duplicity. Whether living or dead, I
owe this tribute to the pure character of Salome Owen."

"Thank Heaven! I had faith in her. I believed her too generous to stoop to a flirtation with
the lover of her friend; and, deplorable as was your own weakness, I am rejoiced, Gerard, to
find that you have conquered it. Tell Muriel all that you have confided to me, and in her hands
we will leave the decision."

"Do you intend to prosecute the search which has proved so fruitless?"

"I do. She has not returned to America,--she is here somewhere; and, living or dead, I must
and will find her."

Dr. Grey seemed lost in perplexing thought for some time, then drew a sheet of paper before
him, and wrote, "Ulpian Grey wishes to see Salome Owen, in order to communicate some facts
which will induce her return to her family; and he hopes she will call immediately at No. Rue
----."

"Gerard, please be so good as to have this inserted in all the leading journals in the city;
and give me the address of Mr. Minge's agent."

At the expiration of a month, spent in the most diligent yet unsuccessful efforts to obtain
some information of the wanderer, Dr. Grey began to feel discouraged,--to yield to melancholy
forebodings that an untimely death had ended her struggles and suffering.

Once, while pacing the walks in the Champs-Elysées, he caught a glimpse of a face that recalled
Salome's, and started eagerly forward; but it proved that of a Parisian bonne, who was romping
with her juvenile charge.

Again, one afternoon, as he came out of the Church of St. Sulpice, his heart bounded at sight
of a woman who leaned against the railing, and watched the play of the fountain. When he approached
her and peered eagerly into her countenance, blue eyes and yellow curls mocked his hopes. One
morning, while he walked slowly along the Rue du Faubourg St. Honoré, his attention was attracted
by the glitter of pretty baubles in the Maison de la Pensée, and he entered the establishment
to purchase something for Jessie.

While waiting for his parcel, a woman came out of a rear apartment and passed into the street,
and, almost snatching his package from the counter, he followed.

A few yards in advance was a graceful but thin figure, clad in a violet-colored muslin, with
a rather dingy silk scarf wound around her shoulders. A straw hat, with a wreath of faded pink
roses, drooped over her face, and streamers of black lace hung behind, while over the whole
she had thrown a thin gray veil.

Dr. Grey had not seen a feature, but the pose of the shoulders, the haughty poise of the head,
the quick, nervous, elastic step, and, above all, the peculiar, free, childish swinging of
the left arm, made his despondent heart throb with renewed hope.

Keeping sufficiently near not to lose sight of her, he walked on and on, down cross streets,
up narrow alleys, towards a quarter of the city with which he was unacquainted. The woman never
looked back, rarely turned her head, even to glance at those who passed her, and only once
she paused before a flower-stall, and seemed to price a bunch of carnations, which she smelled,
laid down again, and then hurried on.

Dr. Grey quickly paid for the cluster, and hastened after her.

In turning a corner, she dropped a small parcel that she had carried under her scarf, and as
she stooped to pick it up, her veil floated off. She caught it ere it reached the ground, and
when she raised her hands to spread it over her hat, the loose open sleeves of her dress slipped
back, and there, on the left arm, was a long, zigzag scar, like a serpentine bracelet.

With great difficulty Dr. Grey stifled a cry of joy, and waited until she had gained some yards
in advance.

The woman was so absorbed in reverie that she did not notice the steady tramp of her pursuer,
but as the number of persons on the street gradually diminished, he prudently fell back, fearing
lest her suspicion should be excited.

At a sudden bend in the crooked alley which she rapidly threaded, he lost sight of her, and,
running a few yards, he turned the angle just in time to see the flutter of her dress and scarf,
as she disappeared through a postern, that opened in a crumbling brick wall.

Above the gate a battered tin sign swung in the wind, and dim letters, almost effaced by elemental
warfare, announced, "Adèle Aubin, Blanchisseuse."

Dr. Grey passed through the postern, and found himself in a narrow, dark court, near a tall,
dingy, dilapidated house, where a girl ten years of age sat playing with two ragged, untidy
children.

It was a dreary, comfortless, uninviting place, and a greenish slime overspread the lower portions
of the wall, and coated the uneven pavement.

From the girl, who chatted with genuine French volubility and freedom, Dr. Grey learned that
her father was an attaché of a barber-shop, and her mother a washer and renovater of laces
and embroideries. The latter was absent, and, in answer to his inquiries, the child informed
him that an upper room in this cheerless building was occupied by a young female lodger, who
held no intercourse with its other inmates.

Placing a five-franc piece in her hand, the visitor asked the name of the lodger, but the girl
replied that she was known to them only as "La Dentellière," and lived quite alone in the right-hand
room at the top of the third flight of stairs.

The parley had already occupied twenty minutes, when Dr. Grey cut it short by mounting the
narrow, winding steps. The atmosphere was close, and redolent of the fumes of dishes not so
popular in America as in France, and he saw that the different doors of this old tenement were
rented to lodgers who cooked, ate, and slept in the same apartment. At the top of the last
dim flight of steps, Dr. Grey paused, almost out of breath; and found himself on a narrow landing-place,
fronting two attic rooms. The one on the right was closed, but as he softly took the bolt in
his hand and turned it, there floated through the key-hole the low subdued sound of a sweet
voice, humming "Infelice."

It was not the deep, rich, melting voice, that had arrested his drive when first he heard it
on the beach, but a plaintive, thrilling echo, full of pathos, yet lacking power; like the
notes of birds when moulting-season ends, and the warblers essay their old strains. Cautiously
he opened the door wide enough to permit him to observe what passed within.

The room was large, low, and irregularly shaped, with neither fire-place nor stove, and only
one dormer window opening to the south, and upon a wide waste of tiled roofs and smoking chimneys.
The floor was bare, except a strip of faded carpet stretched in front of a small single bedstead;
and the additional furniture consisted of two chairs, a tall table where hung a mirror, and
a washstand that held beside bowl and pitcher a candlestick and china cup. On the table were
several books, a plate and knife, and a partially opened package disclosed a loaf of bread,
some cheese, and an apple.

In front of the window a piece of plank had been rudely fastened, and here stood two wooden
boxes containing a few violets, mignonette, and one very luxuriant rose-geranium.

The faded blue cambric curtain was twisted into a knot, and as it was now nearly noon, the
sun shone in and made a patch of gold on the stained and dusky floor.

On the bed lay the straw hat, garlanded with roses that had lost their primitive tints, and
before the window in a low chair sat the lonely lodger.

On her knees rested a cushion, across which was stretched a parchment pattern bristling with
pins, and with bobbins she was swiftly knitting a piece of gossamer lace, by throwing the fine
threads around the pins.

Over the floor floated her delicate lilac dress, and the sleeves were looped back to escape
the forest of pins.

Dr. Grey had only a three-quarter view of the face that bent over the cushion, and though it
was sadly altered in every lineament,--was whiter and thinner than he had ever seen it,--yet
it was impossible to mistake the emaciated features of Salome Owen.

The large, handsome head, had been shorn of its crown of glossy braids that once encircled
it like a jet tiara, and the short locks clustered with childlike grace and beauty around the
gleaming white brow and temples.

There was not a vestige of color in the whilom scarlet mouth, whose thin lines were now scarcely
perceptible; and, in the finer oval of her cheeks, and along the polished chin, the purplish
veins showed their delicate tracery. The hands were waxen and almost transparent, and the figure
was wasted beyond the boundaries of symmetry.

In the knot of ribbon that fastened her narrow linen collar, she had arranged a sprig of mignonette,
that now dropped upon the cushion as she bent over it. She paused, brushed it off, and for
a few seconds her beautiful hazel eyes were fixed on the blue sky that bordered her window.

The whole expression of her countenance had changed, and the passionate defiance of other days
had given place to a sad, patient hopelessness, touching indeed, when seen on her proud features.
Slowly she threw her bobbins, and a fragment of "Infelice" seemed to drift across her trembling
lips, that showed some lines of bitterness in their time-chiselling.

As Dr. Grey watched her, tears which he could not restrain trickled down his face, and he was
starting forward, when she said, as if communing with her own desolate soul,--

"I wonder if I am growing superstitious. Last night I dreamed incessantly of Jessie and home,
and to-day I cannot help thinking that something has happened there. Home! When people no longer
have a home, how hard it is to forget that blessed home which sheltered them in the early years.
Homeless! that is the dreariest word that human misery ever conjectured or human language clothed.
Never mind, Salome Owen, when God snatched your voice from you, He became responsible; and
your claims are like the ravens and sparrows, and He must provide. After all, it matters little
where we are housed here in the clay, and Hobbs was astute when he selected for the epitaph
on his tombstone, 'This is the true philosopher's stone.' Home! Ah, if I sadly missed my heart's
home, here in the flesh, I shall surely find it up yonder in the blessed land of blue."

A tear glided down her cheek, glistened an instant on her chin, and fell on her pattern. She
brushed it away, and smiled sorrowfully,--

"It is ill-omened to sprinkle bridal lace with tears. Some day this fine web will droop around
a bride's white shoulders and after a time it may serve to deck the cold limbs of some dead
child. If I could only have my shroud now, I would not make lace a desideratum; serge or sackcloth
would be welcome. Patience,--

                ... 'What if the bread
  Be bitter in thine inn, and thou unshod
  To meet the flints? At least it may be said,
  Because the way is short, I thank thee, God!'"

She partially rose in her chair, and took from the table a volume of poems. After some search,
she found the desired passage, and, rocking herself to and fro, she read it aloud in a low,
measured tone,--

  "O dreary life! we cry, 'O dreary life!'
  And still the generations of the birds
  Sing through our sighing, and the flocks and herds
  Serenely live, while we are keeping strife
  With heaven's true purpose in us, as a knife
  Against which we may struggle! Ocean girds
  Unslackened the dry land, savannah-swards
  Unweary sweep,--hills watch unworn; and rife
  Meek leaves drop yearly from the forest-trees,
  To show above the unwasted stars that pass
  In their old glory. 'O thou God of old,
  Grant me some smaller grace than comes to these!
  But even so much patience, as a blade of grass
  Grows by, contented through the heat and cold.'"

The book slipped from her fingers and fell upon the floor, and with a sob the girl bowed her
head in her hands.

Quickly the intruder glided unseen into the room, and stood at the back of her chair.

He knew she was praying, and almost breathlessly waited several minutes.

At last she raised her face, and while tears trembled on her lashes, she said meekly,--

"I ought not to complain and repine. I will be patient and trust God; for I can afford to suffer
all through time, provided I may spend eternity with Christ and Dr. Grey."

"Oh, Salome! Thank God, we shall be separated neither in time nor in eternity! Dear wanderer,
come back to your brother!"

He stepped before her, and involuntarily held out his arms.

She neither screamed nor fainted, but sprang to her feet, and a rapture that beggars all description
irradiated her worn, weary, pallid face.

"Is it really you? Oh! a thousand times I have dreamed that I saw you,--stood by you; but when
I tried to touch you, there was nothing but empty air! Oh, Dr. Grey!--my Dr. Grey! Am I only
dreaming, here in the sunshine, or is it you bodily? Did you care for me a little? Did you
come to find me?"

She grasped his arm, swept her hands up and down his sleeve, and then he saw her reel, and
shut her eyes, and shudder.

"My poor child, I came to Paris solely to hunt for my wayward Salome, and, thank God! I have
found her."

He put his arm around her, and placed her head against his shoulder.

Ah, how his generous heart ached, as he noted the hungry delight with which her splendid eyes
lingered on his features, and the convulsive tenacity with which she clung to him, trembling
with excess of joy that brought back carmine to her wasted lips and carnation bloom to her
blanched cheeks.

He heard her whispering, and knew it was a prayer of thanksgiving for the blessing of his presence.

But very soon a change came over her sparkling, happy face, like an inky cloud across a noon
sky, and he felt a shiver stealing through her form.

"Let me go! You said once, that when I came to Europe to enter on my professional career, you
wished never to touch my hands again,--you would consider them polluted."

"Dear Salome, I recant all those harsh, unjust words, which were uttered when I was not fully
aware of the latent strength of your character. Since then, I have learned much from Professor
V----, and from Gerard Granville, that assures me my noble friend is all I could desire her,--that
she has grandly conquered her faults, and is worthy of the admiration, the perfect confidence,
the earnest affection, which her adopted brother offers her. Your pure, true heart makes pure
hands, and as such I reverently salute them."

He took her hands, raised and kissed them respectfully, tenderly.

She hid her burning face on his bosom, and there was a short pause.

"Salome, sit down and let me talk to you of home,--your home. Have you no questions to ask
about your pet sister and brother?"

He attempted to release himself, but she clung to him, and clasping her arms around his neck,
said in a strained, husky tone,--

"Dr. Grey, did you bring your--your wife to Paris?"

"I have no wife."

She uttered a thrilling cry of delight, threw her head back, and gazed steadily into his clear,
calm, blue eyes.

"Oh, sir, they told me you had married Mrs. Gerome."

He placed her in the chair, and kneeling down beside her, took her quivering face in his palms
and touched her forehead softly with his lips.

"The only woman I ever wished to make my wife is bound for life to a worthless husband. Salome,
I loved her before I knew this fact; and, since I learned (soon after your departure) that
she was separated from the man whom she had wedded, I have not seen her, although she still
resides at 'Solitude.' Salome, I shall never marry, and I ask you now to come back to Jessie
and Stanley, who will soon require your care and guidance, for it is my intention to return
to the position in the U.S. naval service, which only Janet's feeble health induced me to resign.
God bless you, dear child! I wish you were indeed my own sister, for I am growing very proud
of my brave, honest friend,--my patient lace-weaver."

The girl's head sank lower and lower until it touched her knees, and sobs rendered her words
scarcely audible.

"If you deem me worthy to be called your friend, it is because of your example, your influence.
Oh, Dr. Grey,--but for you,--but for my hope of meeting you in the kingdom of Christ, I shudder
to think what I might have been! Under all circumstances I have been guided by what I imagined
would have been your wishes,--your advice; and my reward is rich indeed! Your confidence, your
approbation! Earth holds no recompense half so precious."

"Thank God! my prayers have been abundantly answered, my highest hopes of your future fully
realized. Henceforth, let us with renewed energy labor faithfully in the vast, whitening fields
of Him who declares, 'The harvest is plentiful, but the laborers are few.'"

  "O human soul! as long as thou canst so
  Set up a mark of everlasting light,
  Above the howling senses' ebb and flow,
  To cheer thee and to right thee if thou roam,
  Not with lost toil thou laborest through the night,
  Thou makest the heaven thou hopest indeed thy home."

CHAPTER XXXIV.

"SAD CASE OF MANIA A POTU."

"Watchman McDonough reports that late last night, he picked up, on the sidewalk, the insensible
body of Maurice Carlyle, who showed some signs of returning animation after his removal to
Station House No. ----. A physician was called in, and every effort made to save the unfortunate
victim of intemperance; but medical skill was inadequate to arrest the work of many years of
excess, and before daylight the wretched man expired in dreadful convulsions. Coroner Boutwell
held an inquest on the body, and the verdict rendered was 'Death from mania a potu.' Mr. Carlyle
was well known in this city, where for many years he was an ornament to society, and a general
favorite in the fashionable and mercantile circle in which he moved. Of numbers who were once
the recipients of his bounty and hospitality, none offered succor in the hour of adversity,
and among all his former friends none were found to cheer or pity in the last ordeal to which
flesh is subjected. The melancholy fate of Maurice Carlyle furnishes another illustration of
the mournful truth that the wages of intemperance are destitution and desertion."

Such was the startling announcement, which, under the head of "Police Report," Dr. Grey read
and re-read in a prominent New York paper that had accidentally remained for some days unopened
on his desk, and was dated nearly a month previous. Locking the door of his office, he sat
down to collect his bewildered thoughts, and to quiet the tumult in his throbbing heart.

During the two years that had drearily worn away since his last interview with Mrs. Carlyle,
he had sternly forbidden his mind to dwell on its brief dream of happiness, and by a life of
unusually active benevolence endeavored to forget the one episode which alone had power to
disquiet and sadden him.

He had philosophically schooled himself to the calm, unmurmuring acceptance of his lonely destiny,
and looked forward to a life solitary yet not unhappy, although uncheered by the love and companionship
which every man indulges the instinctive hope will sooner or later crown his existence.

Now heart and conscience, so long at deadly feud, suddenly signalled a truce, clasped hands,
embraced cordially. How radiant the world looked,--with what wondrous glory the future had
in the twinkling of an eye robed itself. The woman he had loved was stainless and free, and
how could she long resist the pleadings of his famished heart?

He would win her from cynicism and isolation, would melt her frozen nature in the genial atmosphere
of his pure and constant affection, and interweave her aimless, sombre life with the busy,
silvery web of his own.

After forty years, God would grant him home, and wife, and hearthstone peace.

What a flush and sparkle stole to this grave man's olive cheek, and calm, deep blue eyes!

Ah! how hungrily he longed for the touch of her hand, the sight of her face; and, snatching
his hat, he put the paper in his pocket, and hurried towards "Solitude."

In the holy hush of that hazy autumnal afternoon, nature--Magna Mater,--

  "The altar-curtains of whose hills
    Are sunset's purple air,"
  "Who dips in the dim light of setting suns
  The spacious skirts of that vast robe of hers
  That widens ever in the wondrous west,"

seemed slumbering and dreaming away the day.

The forests were gaudy in their painted shrouds of scarlet and yellow leaves, and long, feathery
flakes of purple bloom nodded over crimson berries, emerald mosses, and golden-hearted asters.

But to-day all sober-hued reflections were exorcised by the rapturous Jubilate that hope was
singing through the sunlit chambers of his happy heart; and when he entered the grounds of
"Solitude" they seemed bathed in that soft glamour, that witching "light that never was on
sea or land."

As he sprang from his buggy and opened the little gate leading into the parterre, Robert came
slowly forward, bearing a basket filled with a portion of the crimson apples that flushed the
orchard, just beyond the low hedge.

"You could not have chosen a better time to come, Dr. Grey; and if I were allowed to have my
way you would have been here last night. Were you sent for at last, or was it a lucky chance
that brought you?"

"Merely an accident, as I received no summons. Robert, how is your mistress?"

"God only knows, sir; I am sure I never can tell how she really is. She has not seemed well
since she took that journey to the North, and for two weeks past she appears to have been slipping
down by inches into her grave. She neither eats nor sleeps, and for the last three nights has
not lain down,--so old Ruth, the housekeeper, tells me. Yesterday I begged my mistress to let
me go for you, but she smiled that awful freezing smile that strikes to the very marrow of
my bones, worse than December sleet,--and raised her finger so: and said, 'At your peril, Robert.
Mind your orchard, man, and I will take care of myself. I want neither doctors nor nurses,
and only desire that you, and Ruth, and Anna, will attend to your respective duties and let
me be quiet. All will soon be well with me.' I killed a partridge, had it nicely broiled, and
carried it to her; and she thanked me, and made a pretence of eating the wing, just to please
me; but when the waiter was taken away to the kitchen, I found all the bird on the plate. This
morning, just before daylight, I heard her playing a wild, mournful thing on the piano, that
sounded like a dirge or a wail; and Ruth says when she went into the parlor to open the blinds,
she found her praying, and thinks she was on her knees for an hour. Please God! sometimes I
wish she was in heaven with my mother, for she will never see any peace in this life."

"What seems to be the disease?"

"Heart-ache."

"You should have come and told me this long ago."

"And pray to what purpose, Dr. Grey? She vowed she would allow no human being to cross her
threshold, except the servants, and I would sooner undertake to curl a steel, or make ringlets
out of a pair of tongs, than bend her will when once she takes a stand. Humph! My mistress
is no willow wand, and is about as easily moved as the church-steeple, or the stone-tower of
the lighthouse."

"Has she recently received letters that contained tidings which excited or distressed her?"

"A letter came last week, but I know nothing of its contents. You need not go into the house
if you wish to find her, for about an hour and a half ago I saw her come out into the grounds,
and she never goes in till the lamps are lighted."

An anxious look clouded for an instant Dr. Grey's countenance, but undaunted hope sang on of
the hours of hallowed communion that the future held, while in her invalid condition he assumed
the care and guardianship of his beloved; and, turning into the lawn, he eagerly searched the
winding walks for some trace of her, some flutter of her garments, some faint, subtle odor
of orange-flowers or tube-roses.

Here and there clusters of purple, pink, and orange crysanthemums flecked the lawn with color;
and a flower-stand, covered with china jars that held geraniums, seemed almost a pyramid of
flame, from the profusion of scarlet blooms.

The sun had gone down behind a waving line of low hills, where,--

  "Thinned to amber, rimmed with silver,
    Clouds in the distance dwell,
  Clouds that are cool, for all their color,
    Pure as a rose-lipped shell.
  Fleets of wool in the upper heavens
    Gossamer wings unfurl;
  Sailing so high they seem but sleeping
    Over yon bar of pearl."

Still as crystal was the sapphire sea that mirrored that quiet, sapphire sky, and not a murmur,
not a ripple, stirred the evening air or the yellow sands that stretched for miles along the
winding coast.

When Dr. Grey had partially crossed the lawn, he glanced towards the marble temple that gleamed
against the dark background of deodars, and saw a woman sitting on the steps of the tomb. Softly
he approached and entered the mausoleum by an arch on the opposite side, but, notwithstanding
his cautious tread, he startled a white pigeon that had perched on the altar, where fresh violets,
heliotrope, and snowy sprigs of nutmeg-geranium were leaning over the scalloped edge of the
Venetian glasses, and distilling perfume in their delicate chalices.

Mrs. Carlyle had brought her floral tribute to the sepulchral urn, and, having carefully arranged
her daily Arkja, had seated herself on the steps to rest.

From the two sentinel poplars that guarded the front, golden leaves were sifting down on the
marble floor, and three or four had drifted upon the lap of the quiet figure, while one, bright
and rich as autumn gilding could make it, rested like a crown on the silver waves that covered
her head.

Down the shining steps trailed the folds of the white merino robe, and around her shoulders
was wrapped the blue crape shawl, while a cluster of violets seemed to have slipped from her
fingers, and strewed themselves at random on her dress.

Softly Dr. Grey drew near, and his voice was tremulously tender, as he said,--

"Mrs. Carlyle, no barrier divides us now."

She did not speak, or turn her queenly head, and he laid his hand caressingly on the glistening
gray hair.

"My darling, my first and only love--my brave, beautiful 'Agla,' may I not tell you, at last,
what conscience once forbade my uttering?"

As motionless and silent as the sculptured poppies above her, she took no notice of his passionate
pleading, and he sprang down one step directly in front of her.

The white face was turned to the sea, and the large, wide, wonderfully lovely yet mournful
gray eyes were gazing fixedly across the waste of water, at a filmy cloud as fine as lace,
that like a silver netting caught the full October moon which was lifting itself in the pearly
east.

The long black lashes did not droop, nor the steady eyes waver, and with a horrible foreboding
Dr. Grey seized her hands. They were rigid and icy. He stooped, caught her to his bosom, and
pressed his lips to hers, but they were colder than the marble column against which she leaned;
for, one hour before, Vashti Carlyle had fronted her God.

Alone in the autumn evening, sitting there with the golden poplar leaves drifting over her,
the desolate woman had held her last communion with the watching ocean that hushed its murmuring,
to see her die; and, laying down the galling burden of her sunless, dreary life, she had joyfully
and serenely "put on immortality" in that everlasting rest, where "there was no more sea, no
more death, neither shall there be any more pain, for the former things are passed away."

Ah! beautiful and holy was--

  "That peaceful face wherein all past distress
  Had melted into perfect loveliness."

CHAPTER XXXV.

Since that October day when Ulpian Grey sat on the steps of the tomb, holding in his arms the
beautiful white form, whom in life God had denied him the privilege of touching, six months
had drifted slowly; yet time had not softened the blow, that, while almost crushing his tender,
unselfish heart, had no power to shake the faith which was so securely anchored in Christ.

Among the papers found in Mrs. Carlyle's desk was one containing the request that Dr. Grey
would superintend the erection of a handsome monument over the remains of her husband, whenever
and wherever he chanced to die; and her will provided that her fortune should be appropriated
as the nucleus of a relief fund for indigent painters.

Her own pictures, to which she had carefully affixed in delicate violet ciphers the name "Agla,"
she directed placed on exhibition in a New York gallery, and ultimately sold for the benefit
of the orphans of artists. To Robert she bequeathed a sum sufficient to maintain him in ease
and comfort; and to Dr. Grey her escritoire, piano, books, and the sapphire ring she had always
worn.

The latter was found in the silver casket, and had been folded in a sheet of paper containing
these words,--

"According to the teachings of the Buddhists, 'the sapphire produces equanimity and peace of
mind, as well as affording protection against envy and treachery. It produces also prayer and
reconciliation with the Godhead, and brings more peace than any other gem of necromancy; but
he who would wear it must lead a pure and holy life.' Finding my sapphire asp mockingly inefficacious
in its traditional talismanic powers, I conclude that my melancholy career has been a violation
of the stipulated condition, and therefore bequeath it to the only human being whom I deem
worthy to wear it with any hope of success."

While awaiting orders from the naval department, Dr. Grey purchased "Solitude," whither he
removed, with Muriel and Miss Dexter, and temporarily established himself, until the arrival
of Mr. Granville.

Immediately after her return from Europe, Salome invested a portion of Mr. Minge's legacy in
the site of the old mill that had fallen to ruin. Here she built a small but tasteful cottage
orné on the spot where her father had died, and here, with Jessie and Stanley, she proposed
to spend her winters; while Mark and Joel were placed at the "Grassmere Farm," a mile distant,
and entrusted with its management until the younger children should attain their majority.

Too proud to accept the home which Dr. Grey had tendered her, Salome was earnestly endeavoring
to imitate the noble example of self-abnegation that lifted him so far above all others whom
she had ever known; and the most precious hope of her life was to reach that exalted excellence
which alone could compel his admiration and respect.

From the day of Mrs. Carlyle's death, the orphan had been a comparatively happy woman, for
jealousy could not invade or desecrate the grave and its harmless sleeper; and Salome fervently
thanked God, that, since she was denied the blessing of Dr. Grey's love, at least she had been
spared the torture of seeing him the fond husband of another.

Time had deepened, but refined, purified, and consecrated her unconquerable affection for the
only man who had ever commanded her reverence, and whose quiet influence had so happily remoulded
her wayward, fiery nature.

There were seasons when the old element of innate perversity re-asserted itself, but the steady
reproving gaze of his clear, true eyes, or the warning touch of his hand on her head, had sufficed
to still the rising storm.

Conscientiously the passionate, exacting woman was striving to bring her heart and life into
subjection to the law,--into conformity with the precepts of Christ; and though she was impulsive,
proud Salome still,--the glaring blemishes in her character were gradually disappearing.

One bright balmy spring morning previous to the day appointed for Muriel's marriage, and for
her guardian's departure for the fleet in Asiatic waters, where he had been assigned to duty,
Dr. Grey drove up the avenue of elms and maples that led to Salome's pretty villa; and as he
ascended the steps, Jessie sprang into his arms, and almost smothered him with caresses.

"Oh, doctor! something so wonderful has happened,--you never could guess, and I am as happy
as a bee in a woodbine. Sister will tell you."

"Where is she?"

"In the parlor, waiting for you."

The child ran off to join Stanley, who was trying a new pony in the yard, and Dr. Grey went
into the cool fragrant room, which was fitted up with more taste than in earlier years he would
have ascribed to its owner.

Salome sat before the open piano, and at his entrance raised her face, which had been bowed
almost to the ivory keys.

"Good morning, Dr. Grey. I am glad you have come to rejoice with me, and I was just thanking
God for the unexpected restoration of my voice. Once when it seemed so necessary to me. He
suddenly took it from me; and now, when it is a mere luxury to own it, He as unexpectedly gives
it to me once more. Verily,--strange as it may appear, my voice is really better than when
Professor V---- pronounced it the first contralto in Europe."

She had risen to greet him, and as he retained her hand in his, she stood close to him, looking
earnestly into his face.

There were tears hanging like tremulous dewdrops on the long jet under-lashes,--and the bright
red in her polished cheeks, and the crimson curves of her parted lips made a picture pleasant
to contemplate.

"My dear child, I do indeed cordially congratulate you. God saw that your voice might possibly
prove a snare and a curse, by ministering to false pride and exaggerated vanity, and in mercy
and wisdom He temporarily deprived you of an instrument that threatened you with danger. Now
that you are stronger, more prudent, and patient, He trusts you again with one of the choicest
blessings that can be conferred on a woman. You have deserved to recover it, and I joyfully
unite my thanks with yours. Let me hear your voice once more."

Trembling with excess of happiness, she sat down and sang feelingly, eloquently, her favorite
"O mon Fernand;" and, as he listened, Dr. Grey looked almost wonderingly at the beautiful flashing
face, that had never seemed half so radiant before. There was marvellous witchery in her rich
round flexible tones, that wound into the holy-of-holies of the man's great heart, and elevated
his thoughts above the dross and dust of earth.

When she ended, he placed his soft palm tenderly on her head, and smoothed the glossy hair.

"I thank you inexpressibly. Sometimes when sad memories oppress me, how I shall long to have
you charm them away by that magical spell that bears my thoughts from this world to the next.
There are some songs which you must learn for my sake."

Ah! at that moment, as she stood there robed in a soft stainless white muslin, with a cluster
of double pomegranate flowers glowing in her silky hair, the girl was very lovely, very attractive,
so full of youthful grace, so winning in her beautiful enthusiasm,--yet Ulpian Grey's heart
did not wander for an instant from one who slept dreamlessly under the sculptured urn on the
marble altar of the mausoleum.

  "Why are the dead not dead? Who can undo
  What time hath done? Who can win back the wind?
  Beckon lost music from a broken lute?
  Renew the redness of a last year's rose?
  Or dig the sunken sunset from the deep?"

"Dr. Grey, if my voice can chase away one vexing thought, one wearying care or melancholy memory,
I shall feel that I have additional reason to thank God for the precious gift."

"I have not seen you look so happy for three years. Indeed, my little sister, you have much
for which to be grateful, and in the midst of your blessings try to recollect those grand words
of Marcus Aurelius Antoninus, 'The soul is a God in exile.' My child, look to it that your
expatriation ends with the shores of time, for--

  'Yea, this is life; make this forenoon sublime,
  This afternoon a psalm, this night a prayer,
  And time is conquered, and thy crown is won.'"

For some seconds Salome did not speak, for the shadow on his countenance fell upon her heart,
and looking reverently up at him, she thought of Richter's mournful dictum,--"Great souls attract
sorrows, as mountains tempests."

"Dr. Grey, want of patience is the cause of half my difficulties and defeats, and plunges me
continually into the slough of distrust and rebellious questioning. I find it so hard to stand
still, and let God do his will, and work in his own way."

"My dear Salome, patience is only practical faith, and the want of it causes two-thirds of
the world's woes. I often find it necessary to humble my own pride, and tame my restless spirit
by recurring to the last words of Schiller, 'Calmer and calmer! many difficult things are growing
plain and clear to me. Let us be patient.' Child, sing me one song more, and then come out
and show me where you propose to place those grape-arbors we spoke of yesterday. This is the
last opportunity I shall have to direct your workmen."

An hour later Salome fastened a sprig of Grand Duke jasmine in the button-hole of his coat,--shook
hands with him for the day, and though she smiled in recognition of his final bow as he drove
down the avenue, her thoughts were busy with the dreaded separation that awaited her on the
morrow and, while her lips were mute, the cry of her heart was,--

            ... "O Beloved, it is plain
  I am not of thy worth, nor for thy place.
  And yet because I love thee, I obtain
  From that same love this vindicating grace,
  To live on still in love,--and yet in vain,--
  To bless thee, yet renounce thee to thy face."

Dr. Grey spent the remainder of the day in visiting his patients, and as he rode from cottage
to hovel, bidding adieu to those whose lives had so often been committed to his professional
guardianship, he was received with tearful eyes, and trembling hands; and numerous benedictions
were invoked upon his head.

Silver threads were beginning to weave an aureola in his chestnut hair, and the smooth white
forehead showed incipient furrows, but the deep blue eyes were as tranquil and trusting as
of yore, and full of tenderer light for the few he loved, for all in suffering and bereavement.

With a sublime and increasing faith in the overruling wisdom and mercy of God, he patiently
and hopefully bore his loneliness and grievous loss,--comforting himself with the assurance
that, "the evening of life brings with it its lamp;" and looking eagle-eyed across the storm-drenched
plain of the present to the gleaming jasper walls of the Eternal Beyond.

