"It was the loneliness, Uncle George," she replied, evading his inference. "I tried to forget
it all, and I threw open our house and gave parties and dances--hardly a week but there has
been something going on--but nothing did any good. I have been--yes--wretchedly unhappy and--No,
it will only distress you to hear it--don't let's talk any more about it. I won't let you go
away again. I'll go away with you if you don't get better soon, anywhere you say. We'll go
down to the White Sulphur--Yes--we'll go there. The air is so bracing--it wouldn't be a week
before all the color would come back to your cheeks and you be as strong as ever."

He was not listening. His mind was framing a question--one he must ask without committing himself
or her. He was running a parallel, really--reading her heart by a flank movement.

"Kate, dear?" He had regained his position although he still kept hold of her hand.

"Yes, Uncle George."

"Did you write to Harry, as I asked you?"

"No, it wouldn't have done any good. I have had troubles enough of my own without adding any
to his."

"Were you afraid he would not answer it?"

She lifted her head and tightened her fingers about his own, her wet eyes looking into his.

"I was afraid of myself. I have never known my own mind and I don't know it now. I have played
fast and loose with everybody--I can't bind up a broken arm and then break it again."

"Wouldn't it be better to try?" he said softly.

"No, I don't think so."

St. George released her hand and settled back in his chair; his face grew grave. What manner
of woman was this, and how could he reach the inner kernel of her heart? Again he raised his
head and leaning forward took both her hands between his own.

"I am going to tell you a story, Kate--one you have never heard--not all of it. When I was
about your age--a little older perhaps, I gave my heart to a woman who had known me from a
boy; with whom I had played when she was a child. I'm not going into the whole story, such
things are always sad; nor will I tell you anything of the beginning of the three happy months
of our betrothal nor of what caused our separation. I shall only tell you of the cruelty of
the end. There was a misunderstanding--a quarrel--I begging her forgiveness on my knees. All
the time her heart was breaking. One little word from her would have healed everything. Some
years after that she married and her life still goes on. I am what you see."

Kate looked at him with swimming eyes. She dimly remembered that she had heard that her uncle
had had a love affair in his youth and that his sweetheart had jilted him for a richer man,
but she had never known that he had suffered so bitterly over it. Her heart went out to him
all the more.

"Will you tell me who it was?" She had no right to ask; but she might comfort him the better
if she knew.

"Harry's mother."

Kate dropped his hands and drew back in her seat.

"You--loved--Mrs.--Rutter--and she--refused you for--Oh!--what a cruel thing to do! And what
a fool she was. Now I know why you have been so good to Harry. Oh, you poor, dear Uncle George.
Oh, to think that you of all men! Is there any one whose heart is not bruised and broken?"
she added in a helpless tone.

"Plenty of them, Kate--especially those who have been willing to stoop a little and so triumph.
Harry has waited three years for some word from you; he has not asked for it, for he believes
you have forgotten him; and then he was too much of a man to encroach upon another's rights.
Does your breaking off with Mr. Willits alter the case in any way?--does it make any difference?
Is this sailor boy always to be a wanderer--never to come home to his people and the woman
he loves?"

"He'll never come back to me, Uncle George," she said with a shudder, dropping her eyes. "I
found that out the day we talked together in the park, just before he left. And he's not coming
home. Father got a letter from one of his agents who had seen him. He was looking very well
and was going up into the mountains--I wrote you about it. I am sorry you didn't get the letter--but
of course he has written you too."

"Suppose I should tell you that he would come back if he thought you would be glad to see him--glad
in the old way?"

Kate shook her head: "He would never come. He hates me, and I don't blame him. I hate myself
when I think of it all."

"But if he should walk in now?"--he was very much afraid he would, and he was not quite ready
for him yet. What he was trying to find out was not whether Kate would be glad to see Harry
as a relief to her loneliness, but whether she really LOVED him.

Some tone in his voice caught her ear. She turned her head quickly and looked at him with wondering
gaze, as if she would read his inmost thoughts.

"You mean that he is coming, Uncle George--that Harry IS coming home!" she exclaimed excitedly,
the color ebbing from her cheeks.

"He is already here, Kate. He slept upstairs in his old room last night. I expect him in any
minute."

"Here!--in this room!" She was on her feet in an instant, her face deathly pale, her whole
frame shaking. Which way should she turn to escape? To meet him face to face would bring only
excruciating pain. "Oh, why didn't you tell me, Uncle George!" she burst out. "I won't see
him! I can't!--not now--not here! Let me go home--let me think! No--don't stop me!" and catching
up her cape and parasol she was out the door and down the steps before he could call her back
or even realize that she had gone.

Once on the pavement she looked nervously up and down the street, gathered her pretty skirts
tight in her hand and with the fluttered flight of a scared bird darted across the park, dashed
through her swinging gate, and so on up to her bedroom.

There she buried her face in Mammy Henny's lap and burst into an agony of tears.

While all this had been going on upstairs another equally important conference was taking place
in Pawson's office below, where Harry at Pawson's request had gone to meet Gadgem and talk
over certain plans for his uncle's future welfare. He had missed Kate by one of those trifling
accidents which often determine the destiny of nations and of men. Had he, after attending
to the business of the morning--(he had been down to Marsh Market with Todd for supplies)--mounted
the steps to see his uncle instead of yielding to a sudden impulse to interview Pawson first
and his uncle afterward, he would have come upon Kate at the very moment she was pouring out
her heart to St. George.

But no such fatality or stroke of good fortune--whatever the gods had in store for him--took
place. On the contrary he proceeded calmly to carry out the details of a matter of the utmost
importance to all concerned--one in which both Pawson and Gadgem were interested--(indeed he
had come at Pawson's suggestion to discuss its details with the collector and himself):--all
of which the Scribe promises in all honor to reveal to his readers before the whole of this
story is told.

Harry walked straight up to Gadgem:

"I am very glad to see you, Mr. Gadgem," he said in his manly, friendly way. "You have been
very good to my uncle, and I want to thank you both for him and for myself," and he shook the
little man's hand heartily.

Gadgem blushed. St. George's democracy he could understand; but why this aristocrat--outcast
as he had once been, but now again in favor--why this young prince, the heir to Moorlands and
the first young blood of his time, should treat him as an equal, puzzled him; and yet, somehow,
his heart warmed to him as he read his sincerity in his eyes and voice.

"Thank you, sir--thank you very much, sir," rejoined Gadgem, with a folding-camp-stool-movement,
his back bent at right angles with his legs. "I really don't deserve it, sir. Mr. Temple is
an EXtraordinary man, sir; the most EXtraordinary man I have ever met, sir. Give you the shirt
off his back, sir, and go NAked himself."

"Yes, he gave it to me," laughed Harry, greatly amused at the collector's effusive manner:
He had never seen this side of Gadgem. "That, of course, you know all about--you paid the bills,
I believe."

"PREcisely so, sir." He had lengthened out now with a spiral-spring, cork-screw twist in his
body, his index finger serving as point. "Paid every one of them. He never cared, sir--he GLOried
in it--GLOried in being a pauper. UNaccountable, Mr. Rutter--Enormously unaccountable. Never
heard of such a case; never WILL hear of such a case. So what was to be done, sir? Just what
I may state is being done this minute over our heads UPstairs": and out went the index finger.
"Rest and REcuperation, sir--a slow--a very slow use of AVAILable assets until new and FURther
AVAILable assets could become visible. And they are here, sir--have arRIVED. You may have heard,
of course, of the Patapsco where Mr. Temple kept the largest part of his fortune."

"No, except that it about ruined everybody who had anything to do with it."

"Then you have heard nothing of the REsuscitation!" cried Gadgem, all his fingers opened like
a fan, his eyebrows arched to the roots of his hair. "You surPRISE me! And you are really ignorant
of the PHOEnix-like way in which it has RISen from its ashes? I said RISen, sir, because it
is now but a dim speck in the financial sky. Nor the appointment of Mr. John Gorsuch as manager,
ably backed by your DIStinguished father--the setting of the bird upon its legs--I'm speaking
of the burnt bird, sir, the PHOEnix. I'm quite sure it was a bird--Nor the payment on the first
of the ensuing month of some eighty per cent of the amounts due the ORIGinal depositors and
another twenty per cent in one year thereafter--The cancelling of the mortgage which your most
BEnevolent and HONorable father bought, and the sly trick of Gorsuch--letting Fogbin, who never
turned up, become the sham tenant--and the joy--"

"Hold on Mr. Gadgem--I'm not good at figures. Give me that over again and speak slower. Am
I to understand that the bank will pay back to my uncle, within a day or so, three-quarters
of the money they stole from him?"

"STOLE, sir!" chided Gadgem, his outstretched forefinger wig-wagging a Fie! Fie! gesture of
disapproval--"STOLE is not a pretty word--actionable, sir--DANgerously actionable--a question
of the watch-house, and, if I might be permitted to say--a bit of COLD lead--Perhaps you will
allow me to suggest the word 'maNIPulated,' sir--the money the bank maNIPulated from your confiding
and inexperienced uncle--that is safer and it is equally EXpressive. He! He!"

"Well, will he get the money?" cried Harry, his face lighting up, his interest in the outcome
outweighing his amusement over Gadgem's antics and expressions.

"He WILL, sir," rejoined Gadgem decisively.

"And you are so sure of it that you would be willing to advance one-half the amount if the
account was turned over to you this minute?" cried Harry eagerly.

"No sir--not one-half--ALL of it--less a TRIfling commission for my services of say one per
cent. When you say 'this minute,' sir, I must reply that the brevity of the area of action
becomes a trifle ACUTE, yes, ALARMingly acute. I haven't the money myself, sir--that is, not
about my person--but I can get it in an hour, sir--in less time, if Mr. Temple is willing.
That was my purpose in coming here, sir--that was why Mr. Pawson sent for me, sir; and it is
but fair to say that you can thank your DIStinguished father for it all, sir--he has worked
night and day to do it. Colonel Rutter has taken over--so I am inFORMED--I'm not sure, but
I am inFORMED--taken over a lot of the securities himself so that he COULD do it. Another EXtraordinary
combination, if you will permit me to say so--I refer to your father--a man who will show you
his door one minute and open his pocketbook and his best bottle of wine for you the next,"
and he plunged himself down in his seat with so determined a gesture that it left no question
on Harry's mind that he intended sitting it out until daylight should there be the faintest
possibility of his financial proposition being accepted.

Harry walked to the window and gazed out on the trees. There was no doubt now that Mr. Temple
was once more on his feet. "Uncle George will go now to Moorlands," he said, decisively, in
a low tone, speaking to himself, his heart swelling with pride at this fresh evidence of his
father's high sense of honor--then he wheeled and addressed the attorney:

"Shall I tell Mr. Temple this news, about the Patapsco Bank, Mr. Pawson?"

"Yes, if you think best, Mr. Rutter. And I have another piece of good news. This please do
not tell Mr. Temple, not yet--not until it is definitely settled. That old suit in Chancery
has been decided, or will be, so I learned this morning and decided in favor of the heir. You
may not have heard of it before, Gadgem," and he turned to the collector, "but it is one of
old General Dorsey Temple's left-overs. It has been in the courts now some forty years. When
this decision is made binding," here he again faced Harry--"Mr. Temple comes in for a considerable
share."

Gadgem jumped to his feet and snapped his fingers rapidly. Had he sat on a tack his rebound
could not have been more sudden. This last was news to him.

"SHORN lamb, sir!" he cried gleefully, rubbing his palms together, his body tied into a double
bow-knot. "Gentle breezes; bread upon the waters! By jiminy, Mr. Rutter, if Mr. Temple could
be born again--figuratively, sir--and I could walk in upon him as I once did, and find him
at breakfast surrounded by all his comforts with Todd waiting upon him--a very good nigger
is Todd, sir--an exCEPtionally good nigger--I'd--I'd--damn me, Mr. Rutter, I'd--well, sir,
there's no word--but John Gadgem, sir--well, I'll be damned if he wouldn't--" and he began
skipping about the room, both feet in the air, as if he was a boy of twenty instead of a thin,
shambling, badly put together bill collector in an ill-fitting brown coat, a hat much the worse
for wear, and a red cotton handkerchief addicted to weekly ablutions.

As for Harry the glad news had cleared out wide spaces before him, such as he had not looked
through in years; leafy vistas, with glimpses of sunlit meadows; shadow-flecked paths leading
to manor-houses with summer skies beyond. He, too, was on his feet, walking restlessly up and down.

Pawson and Gadgem again put their heads together, Harry stopping to listen. Such expressions
as "Certainly," "I think I can": "Yes, of course it was there when I was last in his place,"
"Better see him first," caught his ear.

At last he could stand it no longer. Dr. Teackle or no Dr. Teackle, he would go upstairs, open
the door softly, and if his uncle was awake whisper the good news in his ear. If anybody had
whispered any such similar good news in his ear on any one of the weary nights he had lain
awake waiting for the dawn, or at any time of the day when he sat his horse, his rifle across
the pommel, it would have made another man of him.

If his uncle was awake!

He was not only awake, but he was very much alive.

"I've got a great piece of news for you, Uncle George!" Harry shouted in a rollicking tone,
his joy increasing as he noted his uncle's renewed strength.

"So have I got a great piece of news for you!" was shouted back. "Come in, you young rascal,
and shut that door behind you. She isn't going to marry Willits. Thrown him over--don't want
him--don't love him--can't love him--never did love him! She's just told me so. Whoop--hurrah!
I Dance, you dog, before I throw this chair at you!!"

There are some moments in a man's life when all language fails;--pantomime moments, when one
stares and tries to speak and stares again. They were both at it--St. George waiting until
Harry should explode, and Harry trying to get his breath, the earth opening under him, the
skies falling all about his head.

"She told you so! When!" he gasped.

"Two minutes ago--you've just missed her! Where the devil have you been? Why didn't you come
in before?"

"Kate here--two minutes ago--what will I do?" Had he found himself at sea in an open boat with
both oars adrift he could not have been more helpless.

"DO! Catch her before she gets home! Quick!--just as you are--sailor clothes and all!"

"But how will I know if--?"

"You don't have to know! Away with you, I tell you!"

And away he went--and if you will believe it, dear reader--without even a whisper in his uncle's
ears of the good news he had come to tell.

CHAPTER XXX

Ben let him in.

He came as an apparition, the old butler balancing the door in his hand, as if undecided what
to do, trying to account for the change in the young man's appearance--the width of shoulders,
the rough clothes, and the determined glance of his eye.

"Fo' Gawd, it's Marse Harry!" was all he said when he could get his mouth open.

"Yes, Ben--go and tell your mistress I am here," and he brushed past him and pushed back the
drawing-room door. Once inside he crossed to the mantel and stood with his back to the hearth,
his sailor's cap in his hand, his eyes fixed on the door he had just closed behind him. Through
it would come the beginning or the end of his life. Ben's noiseless entrance and exit a moment
after, with his mistress's message neither raised nor depressed his hopes. He had known all
along she would not refuse to see him: what would come after was the wall that loomed up.

She had not hesitated, nor did she keep him waiting. Her eyes were still red with weeping,
her hair partly dishevelled, when Ben found her--but she did not seem to care. Nor was she
frightened--nor eager. She just lifted her cheek from Mammy Henny's caressing hand--pushed
back the hair from her face with a movement as if she was trying to collect her thoughts, and
without rising from her knees heard Ben's message to the end. Then she answered calmly:

"Did you say Mr. Harry Rutter, Ben? Tell him I'll be down in a moment."

She entered with that same graceful movement which he loved so well--her head up, her face
turned frankly toward him, one hand extended in welcome.

"Uncle George told me you were back, Harry. It was very good of you to come," and sank on the sofa.

It had been but a few steps to him--the space between the open door and the hearth rug on which
he stood--and it had taken her but a few seconds to cross it, but in that brief interval the
heavens had opened above her. The old Harry was there--the smile--the flash in the eyes--the
joy of seeing her--the quick movement of his hand in gracious salute; then there had followed
a sense of his strength, of the calm poise of his body, of the clearness of his skin. She saw,
too, how much handsomer he had grown,--and noted the rough sailor's clothes. How well they
fitted his robust frame! And the clear, calm eyes and finely cut features--no shrinking from
responsibility in that face; no faltering--the old ideal of her early love and the new ideal
of her sailor boy--the one Richard's voice had conjured--welded into one personality!

"I heard you had just been in to see Uncle George, Kate, and I tried to overtake you."

Not much: nothing in fact. Playwriters tell us that the dramatic situation is the thing, and
that the spoken word is as unimportant to the play as the foot-lights--except as a means of
illuminating the situation.

"Yes--I have just left him, Harry. Uncle George looks very badly--don't you think so? Is there
anything very serious the matter? I sent Ben to Dr. Teackle's, but he was not in his office."

He had moved up a chair and sat devouring every vibration of her lips, every glance of her
wondrous eyes--all the little movements of her beautiful body--her dress--the way the stray
strands of hair had escaped to her shoulders. His Kate!--and yet he dare not touch her!

"No, he is not ill. He took a severe cold and only needs rest and a little care. I am glad
you went and--" then the pent-up flood broke loose. "Are you glad to see me, Kate?"

"I am always glad to see you, Harry--and you look so well. It has been nearly three years,
hasn't it?" Her calmness was maddening; she spoke as if she was reciting a part in which she
had no personal interest.

"I don't know--I haven't counted--not that way. I have lain awake too many nights and suffered
too much to count by years. I count by--"

She raised her hand in protest: "Don't Harry--please don't. All the suffering has not been
yours!" The impersonal tone was gone--there was a note of agony in her voice.

His manner softened: "Don't think I blame you, Kate. I love you too much to blame you--you
did right. The suffering has only done me good--I am a different man from the one you once
knew. I see life with a wider vision. I know what it is to be hungry; I know, too, what it
is to earn the bread that has kept me alive. I came home to look after Uncle George. When I
go back I want to take him with me. I won't count the years nor all the suffering I have gone
through if I can pay him back what I owe him. He stood by me when everybody else deserted me."

She winced a little at the thrust, as if he had touched some sore spot, sending a shiver of
pain through her frame, but she did not defend herself.

"You mustn't take him away, Harry--leave Uncle George to me," not as if she demanded it--more
as if she was stating a fact.

"Why not? He will be another man out in Brazil--and he can live there like a gentleman on what
he will have left--so Pawson thinks."

"Because I love him dearly--and when he is gone I have nobody left," she answered in a hopeless
tone.

Harry hesitated, then he asked: "And so what Uncle George told me about Mr. Willits is true?"

Kate looked at him furtively--as if afraid to read his thoughts and for reply bowed her head
in assent.

"Didn't he love you enough?" There was a certain reproach in his tone, as if no one could love
this woman enough to satisfy her.

"Yes."

"What was the matter then? Was it--" He stopped--his eagerness had led him onto dangerous,
if not discourteous, grounds. "No, you needn't answer--forgive me for asking--I had no right.
I am not myself, Kate--I didn't mean to--"

"Yes, I'll tell you. I told Uncle George. I didn't like him well enough--that's all." All this
time she was looking him calmly in the face. If she had done anything to be ashamed of she
did not intend to conceal it from her former lover.

"And will Uncle George take his place now that he's gone? Do you ever know your own heart,
Kate?" There was no bitterness in his question. Her frankness had disarmed him of that. It
was more in the nature of an inquiry, as if he was probing for something on which he could
build a hope.

For a brief instant she made no answer; then she said slowly and with a certain positiveness:

"If I had I would have saved myself and you a great deal of misery."

"And Langdon Willits?"

"No, he cannot complain--he does not--I promised him nothing. But I have been so beaten about,
and I have tried so hard to do right; and it has all crumbled to pieces. As for you and me,
Harry, let us both forget that we have ever had any differences. I can't bear to think that
whenever you come home we must avoid each other. We were friends once--let us be friends again.
It was very kind of you to come. I'm glad you didn't wait. Don't be bitter in your heart toward
me."

Harry left his chair and settled down on the sofa beside her, and in pleading, tender tones said:

"Kate--When was I ever bitter toward you in my heart? Look at me! Do you realize how I love
you?--Do you know it sets me half crazy to hear you talk like that? I haven't come here to-day
to reproach you--I have come to do what I can to help you, if you want my help. I told you
the last time we talked in the park that I wouldn't stay in Kennedy Square a day longer even
if you begged me to. That is over now; I'll do now anything you wish me to do; I'll go or I'll
stay. I love you too much to do anything else."

"No, you don't love me!--you can't love me! I wouldn't let you love me after all the misery
I have caused you! I didn't know how much until I began to suffer myself and saw Mr. Willits
suffer. I am not worthy of any man's love. I will never trust myself again--I can only try
to be to the men about me as Uncle George is to everyone. Oh, Harry!--Harry!--Why was I born
this way--headstrong wilful--never satisfied? Why am I different from the other women?"

He tried to take her hand, but she drew it away.

"No!--not that!--not that! Let us be just as we were when--Just as we used to be. Sit over
there where I can see you better and watch your face as you talk. Tell me all you have done--what
you have seen and what sort of places you have been in. We heard from you through--"

He squared his shoulders and faced her, his voice ringing clear, his eyes flashing: something
of the old Dutch admiral was in his face.

"Kate--I will have none of it! Don't talk such nonsense to me; I won't listen. If you don't
know your own heart I know mine; you've GOT to love me!--you MUST love me! Look at me. In all
the years I have been away from you I have lived the life you would have me live--every request
you ever made of me I have carried out. I did this knowing you would never be my wife and you
would be Willits's! I did it because you were my Madonna and my religion and I loved the soul
of you and lived for you as men live to please the God they have never seen. There were days
and nights when I never expected to see you or any one else whom I loved again--but you never
failed--your light never went out in my heart. Don't you see now why you've got to love me?
What was it you loved in me once that I haven't got now? How am I different? What do I lack?
Look into my eyes--close--deep down--read my heart! Never, as God is my judge, have I done
a thing since I last kissed your forehead, that you would have been ashamed of. Do you think,
now that you are free, that I am going back without you? I am not that kind of a man."

She half started from her seat: "Harry!" she cried in a helpless tone--"you do not know what
you are saying--you must not--"

He leaned over and took both her hands firmly in his own.

"Look at me! Tell me the truth--as you would to your God! Do you love me?"

She made an effort to withdraw her hands, then she sank back.

"I--I--don't know--" she murmured.

"YOU DO--search again--way down in your heart. Go over every day we have lived--when we were
children and played together--all that horror at Moorlands when I shot Willits--the night of
Mrs. Cheston's ball when I was drunk--all the hours I have held you in my arms, my lips to
yours--All of it--every hour of it--balance one against the other. Think of your loneliness--not
mine--yours--and then tell me you do not know! You DO know! Oh, my God, Kate!--you must love
me! What else would you want a man to do for you that I have not done?"

He stretched out his arms, but she sprang to her feet and put out her palms as a barrier.

"No. Let me tell you something. We must have no more misunderstandings--you must be sure--I
must be sure. I have no right to take your heart in my hands again. It is I who have broken
my faith with you, not you with me. I was truly your wife when I promised you here on the sofa
that last time. I knew then that you would, perhaps, lose your head again, and yet I loved
you so much that I could not give you up. Then came the night of your father's ball and all
the misery, and I was a coward and shut myself up instead of keeping my arms around you and
holding you up to the best that was in you, just as Uncle George begged me to do. And when
your father turned against you and drove you from your home, all because you had tried to defend
me from insult, I saw only the disgrace and did not see the man behind it; and then you went
away and I stretched out my arms for you to come back to me and only your words echoed in my
ears that you would never come back to me until you were satisfied with yourself. Then I gave
up and argued it out and said it was all over--"

He had left his seat and at every sentence had tried to take her in his arms, but she kept
her palms toward him.

"No, don't touch me! You SHALL hear me out; I must empty all my heart! I was lonely and heart-sore
and driven half wild with doubts and what people said, my father worse than all of them. And
Mr. Willits was kind and always at my beck and call--and so thoughtful and attentive--and I
tried and tried--but I couldn't. I always had you before me--and you haunted me day and night,
and sometimes when he would come in that door I used to start, hoping it might be you."

"It IS me, my darling!" he cried, springing toward her. "I don't want to hear any more--I must--I
will--"

"But you SHALL! There IS something more. It went on and on and I got so that I did not care,
and one day I thought I would give him my promise and the next day all my soul rebelled against
it and it was that way until one night Mr. Horn read aloud a story--and it all came over me
and I saw everything plain as if it had been on a stage, and myself and you and Mr. Willits--and
what it meant--and what would come of it--and he walked home with me and I told him frankly,
and I have never seen him since. And now here is the last and you must hear it out. There is
not a word I have said to him which I would recall--not a thing I am ashamed of. Your lips
were the last that touched my own. There, my darling, it is all told. I love you with my whole
heart and soul and mind and body--I have never loved anybody else--I have tried and tried and
couldn't. I am so tired of thinking for myself,--so tired,--so tired. Take me and do with me
as you will!"

Again the plot is too strong for the dialogue. He had her fast in his arms before her confession
was finished. Then the two sank on the sofa where she lay sobbing her heart out, he crooning
over her--patting her cheeks, kissing away the tears from her eyelids; smoothing the strands
of her hair with his strong, firm fingers. It was his Kate that lay in his grasp--close--tightly
pressed--her heart beating against his, her warm, throbbing body next his own, her heart swept
of every doubt and care, all her will gone.

As she grew quiet she stretched up her hand, touching his cheek as if to reassure herself that
it was really her lover. Yes! It was Harry--HER Harry--Harry who was dead and is alive again--to
whom she had stripped her soul naked--and who still trusted and loved her.

A little later she loosened herself from his embrace and taking his face in her small, white
hands looked long and earnestly into his eyes, smoothing back the hair from his brow as she
used to do; kissing him on the forehead, on each eyelid, and then on the mouth--one of their
old-time caresses. Still remembering the old days, she threw back his coat and let her hands
wander over his full-corded throat and chest and arms. How big and strong he had become! and
how handsome he had grown--the boy merged into the man. And that other something! (and another
and stronger thrill shot through her)--that other something which seemed to flow out of him;--that
dominating force that betokened leadership, compelling her to follow--not the imperiousness
of his father, brooking no opposition no matter at what cost, but the leadership of experience,
courage, and self-reliance.

With this the sense of possession swept over her. He was all her own and for ever! A man to
lean upon; a man to be proud of; one who would listen and understand: to whom she could surrender
her last stronghold--her will. And the comfort of it all; the rest, the quiet, the assurance
of everlasting peace: she who had been so torn and buffeted and heart-sore.

For many minutes she lay still from sheer happiness, thrilled by the warmth and pressure of
his strong arms. At last, when another thought could squeeze itself into her mind, she said:
"Won't Uncle George be glad, Harry?"

"Yes," he answered, releasing her just far enough to look into her eyes. "It will make him
well. You made him very happy this morning. His troubles are over, I hear--he's going to get
a lot of his money back."

"Oh, I'm so glad. And will we take him with us?" she asked wonderingly, smoothing back his
hair as she spoke.

"Take him where, darling?" he laughed.

"To where we are going--No, you needn't laugh--I mean it. I don't care where we go," and she
looked at him intently. "I'll go with you anywhere in the world you say, and I'll start to-morrow."

He caught her again in his arms, kissed her for the hundredth time, and then suddenly relaxing
his hold asked in assumed alarm: "And what about your father? What do you think he will say?
He always thought me a madcap scapegrace--didn't he?" The memory brought up no regret. He didn't
care a rap what the Honorable Prim thought of him.

"Yes--he thinks so now," she echoed, wondering how anybody could have formed any such ideas
of her Harry.

"Well, he will get over it when I talk with him about his coffee people. Some of his agents
out there want looking after."

"Oh!--how lovely, my precious; talking coffee will be much pleasanter than talking me!--and
yet we have got to do it somehow when he comes home."

And down went her head again, she nestling the closer as if terrified at the thought of the
impending meeting; then another kiss followed--dozens of them--neither of them keeping count,
and then--and then--...................................

And then--Ben tapped gently and announced that dinner was served, and Harry stared at the moon-faced
dial and saw that it was long after two o'clock, and wondered what in the world had become
of the four hours that had passed since he had rushed down from his uncle's and into Kate's arms.

And so we will leave them--playing housekeeping--Harry pulling out her chair, she spreading
her dainty skirts and saying "Thank you, Mr. Rutter--" and Ben with his face in so broad a
grin that it got set that way--Aunt Dinah, the cook, having to ask him three times "Was he
gwineter hab a fit" before he could answer by reason of the chuckle which was suffocating him.

And now as we must close the door for a brief space on the happy couple--never so happy in
all their lives--it will be just as well for us to find out what the mischief is going on at
the club--for there is something going on--and that of unusual importance.

Everybody is out on the front steps. Old Bowdoin is craning his short neck, and Judge Pancoast
is saying that it is impossible and then instatly changing his mind, saying: "By jove it is!"--and
Richard Horn and Warfield and Murdoch are leaning over the balcony rail still unconvinced and
old Harding is pounding his fat thigh with his pudgy hand in ill-concealed delight.

Yes--there is no doubt of it--hasn't been any doubt of it since the judge shouted out the glad
tidings which emptied every chair in the club: Across the park, beyond the rickety, vine-covered
fence and close beside the Temple Mansion, stands a four-in-hand, the afternoon sun flashing
from the silver mountings of the harness and glinting on the polished body and wheels of the
coach. Then a crack of the whip, a wind of the horn, and they are off--the leaders stretching
the traces, two men on the box, two grooms in the rear. Hurrah! Well, by thunder, who would
have believed it--that's Temple inside on the back seat! "There he is waving his hand and Todd
is with him. And yes! Why of course it's Rutter! See him clear that curb! Not a man in this
county can drive like that but Talbot."

Round they come--the colonel straight as a whip--dusty-brown overcoat, flowers in his buttonhole--bell-crowned
hat, brown driving gloves--perfectly appointed, even if he is a trifle pale and half blind.
More horn--a long joyous note now, as if they were heralding the peace of the world, the colonel
bowing like a grand duke as he passes the assembled crowd--a gathering of the reins together,
a sudden pull-up at Seymours', everybody on the front porch--Kate peeping over Harry's shoulder--and
last and best of all, St. George's cheery voice ringing out:

"Where are you two sweethearts!" Not a weak note anywhere; regular fog-horn of a voice blown
to help shipwrecked mariners.

"All aboard for Moorlands, you turtle-doves--never mind your clothes, Kate--nor you either,
Harry. Your father will send for them later. Up with you."

"All true, Harry," called back the colonel from the top of the coach (nobody alighted but the
grooms--there wasn't time--) "Your mother wouldn't wait another hour and sent me for you, and
Teackle said St. George could go, and we bundled him up and brought him along and you are all
going to stay a month. No, don't wait a minute, Kate; I want to get home before dark. One of
my men will be in with the carryall and bring out your mammy and your clothes and whatever
you want. Your father is away I hear, and so nobody will miss you. Get your heavy driving coat,
my dear; I brought one of mine in for Harry--it will be cold before we get home. Matthew, your
eyes are better than mine, get down and see what the devil is the matter with that horse. No,
it's all right--the check-rein bothered him."

And so ended the day that had been so happily begun, and the night was no less joyful with
the mother's arms about her beloved boy and Kate on a stool beside her and Talbot and St. George
deep in certain vintages--or perhaps certain vintages deep in Talbot and St. George--especially
that particular and peculiar old Madeira of 1800, which his friend Mr. Jefferson had sent him
from Monticello, and which was never served except to some such distinguished guest as his
highly esteemed and well-beloved friend of many years, St. George Wilmot Temple of Kennedy Square.

CHAPTER XXXI

It would be delightful to describe the happy days at Moorlands during St. George's convalescence,
when the love-life of Harry and Kate was one long, uninterrupted, joyous dream. When mother,
father, and son were again united--what a meeting was that, once she got her arms around her
son's neck and held him close and wept her heart out in thankfulness!--and the life of the
old-time past was revived--a life softened and made restful and kept glad by the lessons all
had learned. And it would be more delightful still to carry the record of these charming hours
far into the summer had not St. George, eager to be under his own roof in Kennedy Square, declared
he could stay no longer.

Not that his welcome had grown less warm. He and his host had long since unravelled all their
difficulties, the last knot having been cut the afternoon the colonel, urged on by Harry's
mother--his disappointment over his sons's coldness set at rest by her pleadings--had driven
into town for Harry in his coach, as has been said, and swept the whole party, including St.
George, out to Moorlands.

Various unrelated causes had brought about this much-to-be-desired result, the most important
being the news of the bank's revival, which Harry, in his mad haste to overtake Kate, had forgotten
to tell his uncle, and which St. George learned half an hour later from Pawson, together with
a full account of what the colonel had done to bring about the happy result--a bit of information
which so affected Temple that, when the coach with the colonel on the box had whirled up, he,
weak as he was, had struggled to the front door, both hands held out, in welcome.

"Talbot--old fellow," he had said with a tear in his voice, "I have misunderstood you and I
beg your pardon. You've behaved like a man, and I thank you from the bottom of my heart!"

At which the stern old aristocrat had replied, as he took St. George's two hands in his: "Let
us forget all about it, St. George. I made a damned fool of myself. We all get too cocky sometimes."

Then there had followed--the colonel listening with bated breath--St. George's account of Kate's
confession and Harry's sudden exit, Rutter's face brightening as it had not done for years
when he learned that Harry had not yet returned from the Seymours', the day's joy being capped
by the arrival of Dr. Teackle, who had given his permission with an "All right--the afternoon
is fine and the air will do Mr. Temple a world of good," and so St. George was bundled up and
the reader knows the rest.

Later on--at Moorlands of course--the colonel, whose eyes were getting better by the day and
Gorsuch whose face was now one round continuous smile, got to work, and had a heart-to-heart--or
rather a pocket-to-pocket talk--which was quite different in those days from what it would
be now--after which both Kate and Harry threw to the winds all thoughts of Rio and the country
contiguous thereto, and determined instead to settle down at Moorlands. And then a great big
iron door sunk in a brick vault was swung wide and certain leather-bound books were brought
out--and particularly a sum of money which Harry duly handed over to Pawson the next time he
drove to town--(twice a week now)--and which, when recounted, balanced to a cent the total
of the bills which Pawson had paid three years before, with interest added, a list of which
the attorney still kept in his private drawer with certain other valuable papers tied with
red tape, marked "St. G. W. T." And still later on--within a week--there had come the news
of the final settlement of the long-disputed lawsuit with St. George as principal residuary
legatee--and so our long-suffering hero was once more placed upon his financial legs: the only
way he could have been placed upon them or would have been placed upon them--a fact very well
known to every one who had tried to help him, his philosophy being that one dollar borrowed
is two dollars owed--the difference being a man's self-respect.

And it is truly marvellous what this change in his fortunes accomplished. His slack body rounded
out; his sunken cheeks plumped up until every crease and crack were gone, his color regained
its freshness, his eyes their brilliancy; his legs took on their old-time spring and lightness--and
a wonderful pair of stand-bys, or stand-ups, or stand-arounds they were as legs go--that is
legs of a man of fifty-five.

And they were never idle, these legs: there was no sitting cross-legged in a chair for St.
George: he was not constructed along those lines. Hardly a week had passed before he had them
across Spitfire's mate; had ridden to hounds; danced a minuet with Harry and Kate; walked half-way
to Kennedy Square and back--they thought he was going to walk all the way and headed him off
just in time; and best of all--(and this is worthy of special mention)--had slipped them into
the lower section of a suit of clothes--and these his own, although he had not yet paid for
them--the colonel having liquidated their cost. These trousers, it is just as well to state,
had arrived months before from Poole, along with a suit of Rutter's and the colonel had forwarded
a draft for the whole amount without examining the contents, until Alec had called his attention
to the absurd width of the legs--and the ridiculous spread of the seat. My Lord of Moorlands,
after the scene in the Temple Mansion, dared not send them in to St. George, and they had accordingly
lain ever since on top of his wardrobe with Alec as chief of the Moth Department. St. George,
on his arrival, found them folded carefully and placed on a chair--Todd chief valet. Whereupon
there had been a good-natured row when our man of fashion appeared at breakfast rigged out
in all his finery, everybody clapping their hands and saying how handsome he looked--St. George
in reply denouncing Talbot as a brigand of a Brummel who had stolen his clothes, tried to wear
them, and then when out of fashion thrown them back on his hands.

All these, and a thousand other delightful things, it would, I say, be eminently worth while
to dilate upon--(including a series of whoops and hand-springs which Todd threw against the
rear wall of the big kitchen five seconds after Alec had told him of the discomfiture of "dat
red-haided gemman," and of Marse Harry's good fortune)--were it not that certain mysterious
happenings are taking place inside and out of the Temple house in Kennedy Square--happenings
exciting universal comment, and of such transcendent importance that the Scribe is compelled,
much against his will--for the present installment is entirely too short--to confine their
telling to a special chapter.

CHAPTER XXXII

For some time back, then be it said, various strollers unfamiliar with the neighbors or the
neighborhood of Kennedy Square, poor benighted folk who knew nothing of the events set down
in the preceding chapters, had nodded knowingly to each other or shaken their pates deprecatingly
over the passing of "another old landmark."

Some of these had gone so far as to say that the cause could be found in the fact that Lawyer
Temple had run through what little money his father and grandmother had left him; additional
wise-acres were of the opinion that some out-of-town folks had bought the place and were trying
to prop it up so it wouldn't tumble into the street, while one, more facetious than the others,
had claimed that it was no wonder it was falling down, since the only new thing Temple had
put upon it was a heavy mortgage.

The immediate neighbors, however,--the friends of the house--had smiled and passed on. They
had no such forebodings. On the contrary nothing so diverting--nothing so enchanting--had happened
around Kennedy Square in years. In fact, when one of these humorists began speaking about it,
every listener heard the story in a broad grin. Some of the more hilarious even nudged each
other in the waist-coats and ordered another round of toddies--for two or three, or even five,
if there were that number of enthusiasts about the club tables. When they were asked what it
was all about they invariably shook their heads, winked, and kept still--that is, if the question
were put by some one outside the magic circle of Kennedy Square.

All the general public knew was that men with bricks in hods had been seen staggering up the
old staircase with its spindle banisters and mahogany rail; that additional operatives had
been discovered clinging to the slanting roof long enough to pass up to further experts grouped
about the chimneys small rolls of tin and big bundles of shingles; that plasterers in white
caps and aprons, with mortar-boards in one hand and trowels in the other, had been seen chinking
up cracks; while any number of painters, carpenters, and locksmiths were working away for dear
life all over the place from Aunt Jemima's kitchen to Todd's bunk under the roof.

In addition to all this curious wagons had been seen to back up to the curb, from which had
been taken various odd-looking bundles; these were laid on the dining-room floor, a collection
of paint pots, brushes, and wads of putty being pushed aside to give them room--and with some
haste too, for every one seemed to be working overtime.

As to what went on inside the mansion itself not the most inquisitive could fathom: no one
being permitted to peer even into Pawson's office, where so large a collection of household
goods and gods were sprawled, heaped, and hung, that it looked as if there had been a fire
in the neighborhood, and this room the only shelter for miles around. Even Pawson's law books
were completely hidden by the overflow and so were the tables, chairs, and shelves, together
with the two wide window-sills.

Nor did it seem to matter very much to the young attorney as to how or at what hours of the
day or night these several articles arrived. Often quite late in the evening--and this happened
more than once--an old fellow, pinched and wheezy, would sneak in, uncover a mysterious object
wrapped in a square of stringy calico, fumble in his pocket for a scrap of paper, put his name
at the bottom of it, and sneak out again five, ten, or twenty dollars better off. Once, as
late as eleven o'clock, a fattish gentleman with a hooked nose and a positive dialect, assisted
another stout member of his race to slide a very large object from out the tail of a cart.
Whereupon there had been an interchange of wisps of paper between Pawson and the fatter of
the two men, the late visitors bowing and smiling until they reached a street lantern where
they divided a roll of bank-notes between them.

And the delight that Pawson and Gadgem took in it all!--assorting, verifying, checking off--slapping
each other's backs in glee when some doubtful find was made certain, and growing even more
excited on the days when Harry and Kate would drive or ride in from Moorlands--almost every
day of late--tie the horse and carry-all, or both saddle-horses, to St. George's tree-boxes,
and at once buckle on their armor.

This, rendered into common prose, meant that Harry, after a prolonged consultation with Pawson
and Gadgem, would shed his outer coat, the spring being now far advanced, blossoms out and
the weather warm--and that Kate would tuck her petticoats clear of her dear little feet and
go pattering round, her sleeves rolled up as far as they would go, her beautiful arms bare
almost to her shoulders--her hair smothered in a brown barege veil to keep out the dust--the
most bewitching parlor-maid you or anybody else ever laid eyes on. Then would follow such a
carrying up of full baskets and carrying down of empty ones; such a spreading of carpets and
rugs; such an arranging of china and glass; such a placing of andirons, fenders, shovels, tongs,
and bellows; hanging of pictures, curtains, and mirrors--old and new; moving in of sofas, chairs,
and rockers; making up of beds with fluted frills on the pillows--a silk patchwork quilt on
St. George's bed and cotton counterpanes for Jemima and Todd!

And the secrecy maintained by everybody! Pawson might have been stone deaf and entirely blind
for all the information you could twist out of him--and a lot of people tried. And as to Gadgem--the
dumbest oyster in Cherrystone Creek was a veritable magpie when it came to his giving the precise
reason why the Temple Mansion was being restored from top to bottom and why all its old furniture,
fittings, and trappings--(brand-new ones when they couldn't be found in the pawn shops or elsewhere)--were
being gathered together within its four walls. When anybody asked Kate--and plenty of people
did--she would throw her head back and laugh so loud and so merrily and so musically, that
you would have thought all the birds in Kennedy Square park were still welcoming the spring.
When you asked Harry he would smile and wink and perhaps keep on whispering to Pawson or Gadgem
whose eyes were glued to a list which had its abiding place in Pawson's top drawer.

Outside of these four conspirators--yes, six--for both Todd and Jemima were in it, only a very
few were aware of what was really being done. The colonel of course knew, and so did Harry's
mother--and so did old Alec who had to clap his hand over his mouth to keep from snickering
out loud at the breakfast table when he accidentally overheard what was going on--an unpardonable
offence--(not the listening, but the laughing). In fact everybody in the big house at Moorlands
knew, for Alec spread it broadcast in the kitchen and cabins--everybody EXCEPT ST. GEORGE.

Not a word reached St. George--not a syllable. No one of the house servants would have spoiled
the fun, and certainly no one of the great folks. It was only when his visit to Moorlands was
over and he had driven into town and had walked up his own front steps, that the true situation
in all its glory and brilliancy dawned upon him.

The polished knobs, knocker, and the perfect level and whiteness of the marble steps first
caught his eye; then the door swung open and Jemima in white apron and bandanna stood bowing
to the floor, Todd straight as a ramrod in a new livery and a grin on his face that cut it
in two, with Kate and Harry hidden behind them, suffocating from suppressed laughter.

"Why, you dear Jemima! Howdy--... Why, who the devil sent that old table back, Todd, and the
hall rack and--What!" Here he entered the dining-room. Everything was as he remembered it in
the old days. "Harry! Kate!--Why--" then he broke down and dropped into a chair, his eyes still
roaming around the room taking in every object, even the loving cup, which Mr. Kennedy had
made a personal point of buying back from the French secretary, who was gracious enough to
part with it when he learned the story of its enforced sale--each and every one of them--ready
to spring forward from its place to welcome him!

"So this," he stammered out--"is what you have kept me up at Moorlands for, is it? You never
say a word to me--and--Oh, you children!--you children! Todd, did you ever see anything like
it?--my guns--and the loving cup--and the clock, and--Come here you two blessed things and
let me get my arms around you! Kiss me, Kate--and Harry, my son--give me your hand. No, don't
say a word--don't mind me--I'm all knocked out and--"

Down went his face in his hands and he in a heap in the chair; then he stiffened and gave a
little shiver to his elbows in the effort to keep himself from going completely to pieces,
and scrambled to his feet again, one arm around Kate's neck, his free hand in Harry's.

"Take me everywhere and show me everything. Todd, go and find Mr. Pawson and see if Mr. Gadgem
is anywhere around; they've had something to do with this"--here his eyes took in Todd--"You
damned scoundrel, who the devil rigged you out in that new suit?"

"Marse Harry done sont me to de tailor. See dem buttons?--but dey ain't nuthin' to what's on
the top shelf--you'll bust yo'self wide open a-laughin', Marse George, when ye sees what's
in dar--you gotter come wid me--please Mistis an' Marse Harry, you come too. Dis way--"

Todd was full to bursting. Had his grin been half an inch wider his ears would have dropped off.

"An' fore ye look at dem shelves der's annuder thing I gotter tell ye;--an' dat is dat the
dogs--all fo' oh em is comin' in the mawnin'. Mister Floyd's coach-man done tole me so," and
with a jerk and a whoop, completely ignoring his master's exclamation of joy over the return
of his beloved setters, the darky threw back the door of the little cubby-hole of a room where
the Black Warrior and his brethren had once rested in peace, and pointed to a row of erect
black bottles backed by another of recumbent ones.

"Look at dat wine, will ye, Marse George," he shouted, "all racked up on dern shelves? Dat
come f'om Mister Talbot Rutter wid dis yere cyard--" and he handed it out.

St. George reached over, took it from his hand, and read it aloud:

"With the compliments of an old friend, who sends you herewith a few bottles of the Jefferson
and some Sercial and old Port--and a basket or two of Royal Brown Sherry--nothing like your
own, but the best he could scare up."

Soon the newly polished and replated knocker began to get in its liveliest work: "Mrs. Richard
Horn's compliments, and would St. George be pleased to accept a basket of Maryland biscuit
and a sallylunn just out of the oven." Mrs. Bowdoin's compliments with three brace of ducks--"a
little late in the season, my dear St. George, but they are just up from Currytuck where Mr.
Bowdoin has had extremely good luck--for Mr. Bowdoin." "Mrs. Cheston's congratulations, and
would Mr. Temple do her the honor of placing on his sideboard an old Accomack County ham which
her cook had baked that morning and which should have all the charm and flavor of the State
which had given him birth--" and last a huge basket of spring roses from Miss Virginia Clendenning,
accompanied by a card bearing the inscription--"You don't deserve them, you renegade," and
signed--"Your deserted and heart-broken sweetheart." All of which were duly spread out on the
sideboard, together with one lone bottle to which was attached an envelope.

Before the day was over half the club had called--Richard acting master of ceremonies--Kate
and old Prim--(he seemed perfectly contented with the way everything had turned out)--doing
the honors with St. George. Pawson had also put in an appearance and been publicly thanked--a
mark of St. George's confidence and esteem which doubled his practice before the year was out,
and Gadgem--

No, Gadgem did not put in an appearance. Gadgem got as far as the hall and looked in, and,
seeing all the great people thronging about St. George, would have sneaked out again to await
some more favorable occasion had not Harry's sharp eyes discovered the top of his scraggly
head over the shoulders of some others, and darted towards him, and when he couldn't be made
to budge, had beckoned to St. George, who came on a run and shook Gadgem's hand so heartily
and thanked him in so loud a voice--(everybody in the hall heard him)--that he could only sputter--"Didn't
do a thing, sir--no, sir--and if I--" and then, overwhelmed, shot out of the door and down
the steps and into Pawson's office where he stood panting, saying to himself--"I'll be tuckered
if I ain't happier than I--yes--by Jingo, I am. JIMminy-CRIMminy what a man he is!"

And so the day passed and the night came and the neighbors took their leave, and Harry escorted
Kate back to Seymours' and the tired knocker gave out and fell asleep, and at last Todd said
good-night and stole down to Jemima, and St. George found himself once more in his easy chair,
his head in his hand, his eyes fixed on the dead coals of a past fire.

As the echo of Todd's steps faded away and he began to realize that he was alone, there crept
over him for the first time in years the comforting sense that he was once more under his own
roof--his again and all that it covered--all that he loved; even his beloved dogs. He left
his chair and with a quick indrawing of his breath, as if he had just sniffed the air from
some open sea, stretched himself to his full height. There he stood looking about him, his
shapely fingers patting his chest; his eyes wandering over the room, first with a sweeping
glance, and then resting on each separate object as it nodded to him under the glow of the candles.

He had come into his possessions once more. Not that the very belongings made so much difference
as his sense of pride in their ownership. They had, too, in a certain way regained for him
his freedom--freedom to go and come and do as he pleased untrammelled by makeshifts and humiliating
exposures and concealments. Best of all, they had given him back his courage, bracing the inner
man, strengthening his beliefs in his traditions and in the things that his race and blood
stood for.

Then as a flash of lightning reveals from out black darkness the recurrent waves of a troubled
sea, there rushed over him the roll and surge of the events which had led up to his rehabilitation.
Suddenly a feeling of intense humiliation and profound gratitude swept through him. He raised
his arms, covered his face with his hands, and stood swaying; forcing back his tears; muttering
to himself: "How good they have been--how good, how good! All mine once more--wonderful--wonderful!"
With a resolute bracing of his shoulders and a brave lift of his chin, he began a tour of the
room, stopping before each one of his beloved heirlooms and treasures--his precious gun that
Gadgem had given up--(the collector coveted it badly as a souvenir, and got it the next day
from St. George, with his compliments)--the famous silver loving cup with an extra polish Kirk
had given it; his punch bowl--scarf rings and knick-knacks and the furniture and hangings of
various kinds. At last he reached the sideboard, and bending over reread the several cards
affixed to the different donations--Mrs. Cheston's, Mrs. Horn's, Miss Clendenning's, and the
others. His eye now fell on the lone bottle--this he had not heretofore noticed--and the note
bearing Mr. Kennedy's signature. "I send you back, St. George, that last bottle of old Madeira,
the Black Warrior of 1810--the one you gave me and which we were to share together. I hadn't
the heart to drink my half without you and so here is the whole and my warmest congratulations
on your home-coming and long life to you!"

Picking up the quaint bottle, he passed his hand tenderly over its crusted surface, paused
for an instant to examine the cork, and held it closer to the light that he might note its
condition. There he stood musing, his mind far away, his fingers caressing its sides. All the
aroma of the past; all the splendor of the old regime--all its good-fellowship, hospitality,
and courtesy--that which his soul loved--lay imprisoned under his hand. Suddenly one of his
old-time quizzical smiles irradiated his face: "By Jove!--just the thing!" he cried joyously,
"it will take the place of the one Talbot didn't open!"

With a mighty jerk of the bell cord he awoke the echoes below stairs.

Todd came on the double quick:

"Todd."

"Yes, Marse George."

"Todd, here's the last bottle of the 1810. Lay it flat on the top shelf with the cork next
the wall. We'll open it at Mr. Harry's wedding."

[THE END]