Dig out a foot-deep trench the width of an ordinary shovel and carefully place this earth next
to the trench. Sprinkle in a heavy dose of organic fertilizer or strong compost, and spade
that in so the soil is fluffy and fertile 2 feet down. Do not immediately refill the trench
with the soil that was dug out. With a shovel handle, poke a row of 6-inch-deep holes along
the bottom of the trench. If the nursery bed has grown well there should be about 4 inches
of stem on each seedling before the first leaf attaches. If the weather is hot and sunny, snip
off about one-third to one-half the leaf area to reduce transplanting shock. Drop one leek
seedling into each hole up to the point that the first leaf attaches to the stalk, and mud
it in with a cup or two of liquid fertilizer. As the leeks grow, gradually refill the trench
and even hill up soil around the growing plants. This makes the better-tasting white part of
the stem get as long as possible. Avoid getting soil into the center of the leek where new
leaves emerge, or you'll not get them clean after harvest.

Spacing of the seedlings depends on the amount of irrigation. If absolutely none at all, set
them 12 inches apart in the center of a row 4 feet wide. If unlimited water is available, give
them 2 inches of separation. Or adjust spacing to the water available. The plants grow slowly
through summer, but in autumn growth will accelerate, especially if they are side-dressed at
this time.

Varieties: For dry gardening use the hardier, more vigorous winter leeks. Durabel (TSC) has
an especially mild, sweet flavor. Other useful varieties include Giant Carentian (ABL), Alaska
(STK), and Winter Giant (PEA).

Lettuce

Spring-sown lettuce will go to large sizes, remaining sweet and tender without irrigation if
spaced 1 foot apart in a single row with 2 feet of elbow room on each side. Lettuce cut after
mid-June usually gets bitter without regular, heavy irrigation. I reserve my well-watered raised
bed for this summer salad crop. Those very short of water can start fall/winter lettuce in
a shaded, irrigated nursery bed mid-August through mid-September and transplant it out after
the fall rains return. Here is one situation in which accelerating growth with cloches or cold
frames would be very helpful.

Water-Wise Cucurbits

The root systems of this family are far more extensive than most people realize. Usually a
taproot goes down several feet and then, soil conditions permitting, thickly occupies a large
area, ultimately reaching down 5 to 8 feet. Shallow feeder roots also extend laterally as far
as or farther than the vines reach at their greatest extent.

Dry gardeners can do several things to assist cucurbits. First, make sure there is absolutely
no competition in their root zone. This means[i]one plant per hill, with the hills separated
in all directions a little farther than the greatest possible extent of the variety's ultimate
growth.[i] Common garden lore states that squashes droop their leaves in midsummer heat and
that this trait cannot be avoided and does no harm. But if they've grown as described above,
on deep, open soil, capillarity and surface moisture reserves ensure there usually will be
no midday wilting, even if there is no watering. Two plants per hill do compete and make each
other wilt.

Second, double dig and fertilize the entire lateral root zone. Third, as much as possible,
avoid walking where the vines will ultimately reach to avoid compaction. Finally, [i]do not
transplant them.[i] This breaks the taproot and makes the plant more dependent on lateral roots
seeking moisture in the top 18 inches of soil.

Melons

Sowing date: As soon as they'll germinate outdoors: at Elkton, May 15 to June 1. Thin to a
single plant per hill when there are about three true leaves and the vines are beginning to run.

Spacing: Most varieties will grow a vine reaching about 8 feet in diameter. Space the hills
8 feet apart in all directions.

Irrigation: Fertigation every two to three weeks will increase the yield by two or three times
and may make the melons sweeter. Release the water/fertilizer mix close to the center of the
vine, where the taproot can use it.

Varieties: Adaptation to our cool climate is critical with melons; use varieties sold by our
regional seed companies. Yellow Doll watermelons (TSC) are very early and seem the most productive
under the most droughty conditions. I've had reasonable results from most otherwise regionally
adapted cantaloupes and muskmelons. Last year a new hybrid variety, Passport (TSC), proved
several weeks earlier than I'd ever experienced and was extraordinarily prolific and tasty.

Onions/Scallions

The usual spring-sown, summer-grown bulb onions and scallions only work with abundant irrigation.
But the water-short, water-wise gardener can still supply the kitchen with onions or onion
substitutes year-round. Leeks take care of November through early April. Overwintered bulb
onions handle the rest of the year. Scallions may also be harvested during winter.

Sowing date: Started too soon, overwintered or short-day bulbing onions (and sweet scallions)
will bolt and form seed instead of bulbing. Started too late they'll be too small and possibly
not hardy enough to survive winter. About August 15 at Elkton I sow thickly in a well-watered
and very fertile nursery bed. If you have more than one nursery row, separate them about by
12 inches. Those who miss this window of opportunity can start transplants in early October
and cover with a cloche immediately after germination, to accelerate seedling growth during
fall and early winter.

Start scallions in a nursery just like overwintered onions, but earlier so they're large enough
for the table during winter, I sow them about mid-July.

Spacing: When seedlings are about pencil thick (December/January for overwintering bulb onions),
transplant them about 4 or 5 inches apart in a single row with a couple of feet of elbow room
on either side. I've found I get the best growth and largest bulbs if they follow potatoes.
After the potatoes are dug in early October I immediately fertilize the area heavily and till,
preparing the onion bed. Klamath Basin farmers usually grow a similar rotation: hay, potatoes,
onions.

Transplant scallions in October with the fall rains, about 1 inch apart in rows at least 2
feet apart.

Irrigation: Not necessary. However, side-dressing the transplants will result in much larger
bulbs or scallions. Scallions will bolt in April; the bulbers go tops-down and begin drying
down as the soil naturally dries out.

Varieties: I prefer the sweet and tender Lisbon (TSC) for scallions. For overwintered bulb
onions, grow very mild but poorly keeping Walla Walla Sweet (JSS), Buffalo (TSC), a better
keeper, or whatever Territorial is selling at present.

Parsley

Sowing date: March. Parsley seed takes two to three weeks to germinate.

Spacing: Thin to 12 inches apart in a single row 4 feet wide. Five plants should overwhelm
the average kitchen.

Irrigation: Not necessary unless yield falls off during summer and that is very unlikely. Parsley's
very deep, foraging root system resembles that of its relative, the carrot.

Varieties: If you use parsley for greens, variety is not critical, though the gourmet may note
slight differences in flavor or amount of leaf curl. Another type of parsley is grown for edible
roots that taste much like parsnip. These should have their soil prepared as carefully as though
growing carrots.

Peas

This early crop matures without irrigation. Both pole and bush varieties are planted thickly
in single rows about 4 feet apart. I always overlook some pods, which go on to form mature
seed. Without overhead irrigation, this seed will sprout strongly next year. Alaska (soup)
peas grow the same way.

Peppers

Pepper plants on raised beds spaced the usually recommended 16 to 24 inches apart undergo intense
root competition even before their leaves form a canopy. With or without unlimited irrigation,
the plants will get much larger and bear more heavily with elbow room.

Sowing date: Set out transplants at the usual time. Double dig a few square feet of soil beneath
each seedling, and make sure fertilizer gets incorporated all the way down to 2 feet deep.

Spacing: Three feet apart in rows 3 to 4 feet apart.

Irrigation: Without any irrigation only the most vigorous, small-fruited varieties will set
anything. For an abundant harvest, fertigate every three or four weeks. For the biggest pepper
plants you ever grew, fertigate every two weeks.

Varieties: The small-fruited types, both hot and sweet, have much more aggressive root systems
and generally adapt better to our region's cool weather. I've had best results with Cayenne
Long Slim, Gypsie, Surefire, Hot Portugal, the "cherries" both sweet and hot, Italian Sweet,
and Petite Sirah.

Potatoes

Humans domesticated potatoes in the cool, arid high plateaus of the Andes where annual rainfall
averages 8 to 12 inches. The species finds our dry summer quite comfortable. Potatoes produce
more calories per unit of land than any other temperate crop. Irrigated potatoes yield more
calories and two to three times as much watery bulk and indigestible fiber as those grown without
irrigation, but the same variety dry gardened can contain about 30 percent more protein, far
more mineral nutrients, and taste better.

Sowing date: I make two sowings. The first is a good-luck ritual done religiously on March
17th--St. Patrick's Day. Rain or shine, in untilled mud or finely worked and deeply fluffed
earth, I still plant 10 or 12 seed potatoes of an early variety. This provides for summer.

The main sowing waits until frost is unlikely and I can dig the potato rows at least 12 inches
deep with a spading fork, working in fertilizer as deeply as possible and ending up with a
finely pulverized 24-inch-wide bed. At Elkton, this is usually mid-to late April. There is
no rush to plant. Potato vines are not frost hardy. If frosted they'll regrow, but being burned
back to the ground lowers the final yield.

Spacing: I presprout my seeds by spreading them out in daylight at room temperature for a few
weeks, and then plant one whole, sprouting, medium-size potato every 18 inches down the center
of the row. Barely cover the seed potato. At maturity there should be 2[f]1/2 to 3 feet of
soil unoccupied with the roots of any other crop on each side of the row. As the vines emerge,
gradually scrape soil up over them with a hoe. Let the vines grow about 4 inches, then pull
up about 2 inches of cover. Let another 4 inches grow, then hill up another 2 inches. Continue
doing this until the vines begin blooming. At that point there should be a mound of loose,
fluffy soil about 12 to 16 inches high gradually filling with tubers lushly covered with blooming
vines.

Irrigation: Not necessary. In fact, if large water droplets compact the loose soil you scraped
up, that may interfere with maximum tuber enlargement. However, after the vines are a foot
long or so, foliar feeding every week or 10 days will increase the yield.

Varieties: The water-wise gardener's main potato problem is too-early maturity, and then premature
sprouting in storage. Early varieties like Yukon Gold--even popular midseason ones like Yellow
Finn--don't keep well unless they're planted late enough to brown off in late September. That's
no problem if they're irrigated. But planted in late April, earlier varieties will shrivel
by August. Potatoes only keep well when very cool, dark, and moist--conditions almost impossible
to create on the homestead during summer. The best August compromise is to leave mature potatoes
undug, but soil temperatures are in the 70s during August, and by early October, when potatoes
should be lifted and put into storage, they'll already be sprouting. Sprouting in October is
acceptable for the remainders of my St. Pat's Day sowing that I am keeping over for seed next
spring. It is not ok for my main winter storage crop. Our climate requires very late, slow-maturing
varieties that can be sown early but that don't brown off until September. Late types usually
yield more, too.

Most of the seed potato varieties found in garden centers are early or midseason types chosen
by farmers for yield without regard to flavor or nutrition. One, Nooksack Cascadian, is a very
late variety grown commercially around Bellingham, Washington. Nooksack is pretty good if you
like white, all-purpose potatoes.

There are much better homegarden varieties available in Ronniger's catalog, all arranged according
to maturity. For the ultimate in earlies I suggest Red Gold. For main harvests I'd try Indian
Pit, Carole, German Butterball, Siberian, or a few experimental row-feet of any other late
variety taking your fancy.

Rutabagas

Rutabagas have wonderfully aggressive root systems and are capable of growing continuously
through long, severe drought. But where I live, the results aren't satisfactory. Here's what
happens. If I start rutabagas in early April and space them about 2 to 3 feet apart in rows
4 feet apart, by October they're the size of basketballs and look pretty good; unfortunately,
I harvest a hollow shell full of cabbage root maggots. Root maggots are at their peak in early
June. That's why I got interested in dry-gardening giant kohlrabi.

In 1991 we had about 2 surprising inches of rain late in June, so as a test I sowed rutabagas
on July 1. They germinated without more irrigation, but going into the hot summer as small
plants with limited root systems and no irrigation at all they became somewhat stunted. By
October 1 the tops were still small and a little gnarly; big roots had not yet formed. Then
the rains came and the rutabagas began growing rapidly. By November there was a pretty nice
crop of medium-size good-eating roots.

I suspect that farther north, where evaporation is not so severe and midsummer rains are slightly
more common, if a little irrigation were used to start rutabagas about July 1, a decent unwatered
crop might be had most years. And I am certain that if sown at the normal time (July 15) and
grown with minimal irrigation but well spaced out, they'll produce acceptably.

Varieties: Stokes Altasweet (STK, TSC) has the best flavor.

Sorrel

This weed-like, drought-tolerant salad green is little known and underappreciated. In summer
the leaves get tough and strong flavored; if other greens are available, sorrel will probably
be unpicked. That's ok. During fall, winter, and spring, sorrel's lemony taste and delicate,
tender texture balance tougher savoy cabbage and kale and turn those crude vegetables into
very acceptable salads. Serious salad-eating families might want the production of 5 to 10
row-feet.

Sowing date: The first year you grow sorrel, sow mid-March to mid-April. The tiny seed must
be placed shallowly, and it sprouts much more readily when the soil stays moist. Plant a single
furrow centered in a row 4 feet wide.

Spacing: As the seedlings grow, thin gradually. When the leaves are about the size of ordinary
spinach, individual plants should be about 6 inches apart.

Irrigation: Not necessary in summer--you won't eat it anyway. If production lags in fall, winter,
or spring, side-dress the sorrel patch with a little compost or organic fertilizer.

Maintenance: Sorrel is perennial. If an unusually harsh winter freeze kills off the leaves
it will probably come back from root crowns in early spring. You'll welcome it after losing
the rest of your winter crops. In spring of the second and succeeding years sorrel will make
seed. Seed making saps the plant's energy, and the seeds may naturalize into an unwanted weed
around the garden. So, before any seed forms, cut all the leaves and seed stalks close to the
ground; use the trimmings as a convenient mulch along the row. If you move the garden or want
to relocate the patch, do not start sorrel again from seed. In any season dig up a few plants,
divide the root masses, trim off most of the leaves to reduce transplanting shock, and transplant
1 foot apart. Occasional unique plants may be more reluctant to make seed stalks than most
others. Since seed stalks produce few edible leaves and the leaves on them are very harsh flavored,
making seed is an undesirable trait. So I propagate only seed-shy plants by root cuttings.

Spinach

Spring spinach is remarkably more drought tolerant than it would appear from its delicate structure
and the succulence of its leaves. A bolt-resistant, long-day variety bred for summer harvest
sown in late April may still yield pickable leaves in late June or even early July without
any watering at all, if thinned to 12 inches apart in rows 3 feet apart.

Squash, Winter and Summer

Sowing date: Having warm-enough soil is everything. At Elkton I first attempt squash about
April 15. In the Willamette, May 1 is usual. Farther north, squash may not come up until June
1. Dry gardeners should not transplant squash; the taproot must not be broken.

Spacing: The amount of room to give each plant depends on the potential of a specific variety's
maximum root development. Most vining winter squash can completely occupy a 10-foot-diameter
circle. Sprawly heirloom summer squash varieties can desiccate an 8-or 9-foot-diameter circle.
Thin each hill to one plant, not two or more as is recommended in the average garden book.
There must be no competition for water.

Irrigation: With winter storage types, an unirrigated vine may yield 15 pounds of squash after
occupying a 10-foot-diameter circle for an entire growing season. However, starting about July
1, if you support that vine by supplying liquid fertilizer every two to three weeks you may
harvest 60 pounds of squash from the same area. The first fertigation may only need 2 gallons.
Then mid-July give 4; about August 1, 8; August 15, feed 15 gallons. After that date, solar
intensity and temperatures decline, growth rate slows, and water use also decreases. On September
1 I'd add about 8 gallons and about 5 more on September 15 if it hadn't yet rained significantly.
Total water: 42 gallons. Total increase in yield: 45 pounds. I'd say that's a good return on
water invested.

Varieties: For winter squash, all the vining winter varieties in the C. maxima or C. pepo family
seem acceptably adapted to dry gardening. These include Buttercup, Hubbard, Delicious, Sweet
Meat, Delicata, Spaghetti, and Acorn. I wouldn't trust any of the newer compact bush winter
varieties so popular on raised beds. Despite their reputation for drought tolerance C. mixta
varieties (or cushaw squash) were believed to be strictly hot desert or humid-tropical varieties,
unable to mature in our cool climate. However, Pepita (PEA) is a mixta that is early enough
and seems entirely unbothered by a complete lack of irrigation. The enormous vine sets numerous
good keepers with mild-tasting, light yellow flesh.

Obviously, the compact bush summer squash varieties so popular these days are not good candidates
for withstanding long periods without irrigation. The old heirlooms like Black Zucchini (ABL)
(not Black Beauty!) and warty Yellow Crookneck grow enormous, high-yielding plants whose extent
nearly rivals that of the largest winter squash. They also grow a dense leaf cover, making
the fruit a little harder to find. These are the only American heirlooms still readily available.
Black Zucchini has become very raggedy; anyone growing it should be prepared to plant several
vines and accept that at least one-third of them will throw rather off-type fruit. It needs
the work of a skilled plant breeder. Yellow Crookneck is still a fairly "clean" variety offering
good uniformity. Both have more flavor and are less watery than the modern summer squash varieties.
Yellow Crookneck is especially rich, probably due to its thick, oily skin; most gardeners who
once grow the old Crookneck never again grow any other kind. Another useful drought-tolerant
variety is Gem, sometimes called Rolet (TSC). It grows an extensive winter-squash-like vine
yielding grapefruit-size, excellent eating summer squash.

Both Yellow Crookneck and Black Zucchini begin yielding several weeks later than the modern
hybrids. However, as the summer goes on they will produce quite a bit more squash than new
hybrid types. I now grow five or six fully irrigated early hybrid plants like Seneca Zucchini
too. As soon as my picking bucket is being filled with later-to-yield Crooknecks, I pull out
the Senecas and use the now empty irrigated space for fall crops.

Tomato

There's no point in elaborate methods--trellising, pruning, or training--with dry-gardened
tomato vines. Their root systems must be allowed to control all the space they can without
competition, so allow the vines to sprawl as well. And pruning the leaf area of indeterminates
is counterproductive: to grow hugely, the roots need food from a full complement of leaves.

Sowing date: Set out transplants at the usual time. They might also be jump started under cloches
two to three weeks before the last frost, to make better use of natural soil moisture.

Spacing: Depends greatly on variety. The root system can occupy as much space as the vines
will cover and then some.

Irrigation: Especially on determinate varieties, periodic fertigation will greatly increase
yield and size of fruit. The old indeterminate sprawlers will produce through an entire summer
without any supplemental moisture, but yield even more in response to irrigation.

Variety: With or without irrigation or anywhere in between, when growing tomatoes west of the
Cascades, nothing is more important than choosing the right variety. Not only does it have
to be early and able to set and ripen fruit when nights are cool, but to grow through months
without watering the plant must be highly indeterminate. This makes a built-in conflict: most
of the sprawly, huge, old heirloom varieties are rather late to mature. But cherry tomatoes
are always far earlier than big slicers.

If I had to choose only one variety it would be the old heirloom [Large] Red Cherry. A single
plant is capable of covering a 9- to 10-foot-diameter circle if fertigated from mid-July through
August. The enormous yield of a single fertigated vine is overwhelming.

Red Cherry is a little acid and tart. Non-acid, indeterminate cherry types like Sweetie, Sweet
100, and Sweet Millions are also workable but not as aggressive as Red Cherry. I wouldn't depend
on most bush cherry tomato varieties. But our earliest cherry variety of all, OSU's Gold Nugget,
must grow a lot more root than top, for, with or without supplemental water, Gold Nugget sets
heavily and ripens enormously until mid-August, when it peters out from overbearing (not from
moisture stress). Gold Nugget quits just about when the later cherry or slicing tomatoes start
ripening heavily.

