Many French words in the text have accents, etc. which have been omitted.

FROM THE MEMOIRS OF A MINISTER OF FRANCE

BY

STANLEY WEYMAN

CONTENTS.

    I.--THE CLOCKMAKER OF POISSY
   II.--THE TENNIS BALLS
  III.--TWO MAYORS OF BOTTITORT
   IV.--LA TOUSSAINT
    V.--THE LOST CIPHER
   VI.--THE MAN OF MONCEAUX
  VII.--THE GOVERNOR OF GUERET
 VIII.--THE OPEN SHUTTER
   IX.--THE MAID OF HONOUR
    X.--FARMING THE TAXES
   XI.--THE CAT AND THE KING
  XII.--AT FONTAINEBLEAU

I.

THE CLOCKMAKER OF POISSY.

Foreseeing that some who do not love me will be swift to allege that in the preparation of
these memoirs I have set down only such things as redound to my credit, and have suppressed
the many experiences not so propitious which fall to the lot of the most sagacious while in
power, I take this opportunity of refuting that calumny.  For the truth stands so far the other
way that my respect for the King's person has led me to omit many things creditable to me;
and some, it may be, that place me in a higher light than any I have set down.  And not only
that:  but I propose in this very place to narrate the curious details of an adventure wherein
I showed to less advantage than usual; and on which I should, were I moved by the petty feelings
imputed to me by malice, be absolutely silent.

One day, about a fortnight after the quarrel between the King and the Duchess of Beaufort,
which I have described, and which arose, it will be remembered, out of my refusal to pay the
christening expenses of her second son on the scale of a child of France, I was sitting in
my lodgings at St. Germains when Maignan announced that M. de Perrot desired to see me.  Knowing
Perrot to be one of the most notorious beggars about the court, with an insatiable maw of his
own and an endless train of nephews and nieces, I was at first for being employed; but, reflecting
that in the crisis in the King's affairs which I saw approaching--and which must, if he pursued
his expressed intention of marrying the Duchess, be fraught with infinite danger to the State
and himself--the least help might be of the greatest moment, I bade them admit him; privately
determining to throw the odium of any refusal upon the overweening influence of Madame de Sourdis,
the Duchess's aunt.

Accordingly I met him with civility, and was not surprised when, with his second speech, he
brought out the word FAVOUR.  But I was surprised--for, as I have said, I knew him to be the
best practised beggar in the world--to note in his manner some indications of embarrassment
and nervousness; which, when I did not immediately assent, increased to a sensible extent.

"It is a very small thing, M. de Rosny," he said, breathing hard.

On that hint I declared my willingness to serve him.  "But," I added, shrugging my shoulders
and speaking in a confidential tone, "no one knows the Court better than you do, M. de Perrot.
You are in all our secrets, and you must be aware that at present--I say nothing of the Duchess,
she is a good woman, and devoted to his Majesty--but there are others--"

"I know," he answered, with a flash of malevolence that did not escape me.  "But this is a
private favour, M. de Rosny.  It is nothing that Madame de Sourdis can desire, either for herself
or for others."

That aroused my curiosity.  Only the week before, Madame de Sourdis had obtained a Hat for
her son, and the post of assistant Deputy Comptroller of Buildings for her Groom of the Chambers.
For her niece the Duchess she meditated obtaining nothing less than a crown.  I was at pains,
therefore, to think of any office, post, or pension that could be beyond the pale of her desires;
and in a fit of gaiety I bade M. de Perrot speak out and explain his riddle.

"It is a small thing," he said, with ill-disguised nervousness. "The King hunts to-morrow."

"Yes," I said.

"And very commonly he rides back in your company, M. le Marquis."

"Sometimes," I said; "or with M. d'Epernon.  Or, if he is in a mood for scandal, with M. la
Varenne or Vitry."

"But with you, if you wish it, and care to contrive it so," he persisted, with a cunning look.

I shrugged my shoulders.  "Well?"  I said, wondering more and more what he would be at.

"I have a house on the farther side of Poissy," he continued. "And I should take it as a favour,
M. de Rosny, if you could induce the King to dismount there to-morrow and take a cup of wine."

"That is a very small thing," I said bluntly, wondering much why he had made so great a parade
of the matter, and still more why he seemed so ill at ease.  "Yet, after such a prelude, if
any but a friend of your tried loyalty asked it, I might expect to find Spanish liquorice in
the cup."

"That is out of the question, in my case," he answered with a slight assumption of offence,
which he immediately dropped.  "And you say it is a small thing; it is the more easily granted,
M. de Rosny."

"But the King goes and comes at his pleasure," I replied warily. "Of course, he might-take
it into his head to descend at your house.  There would be nothing surprising in such a visit.
I think that he has paid you one before, M. de Perrot?"

He assented eagerly.

"And he may do so," I said, smiling, "to-morrow.  But then, again, he may not.  The chase may
lead him another way; or he may be late in returning; or--in fine, a hundred things may happen."

I had no mind to go farther than that; and I supposed that it would satisfy him, and that he
would thank me and take his leave. To my surprise, however, he stood his ground, and even pressed
me more than was polite; while his countenance, when I again eluded him, assumed an expression
of chagrin and vexation so much in excess of the occasion as to awaken fresh doubts in my mind.
But these only the more confirmed me in my resolution to commit myself no farther, especially
as he was not a man I loved or could trust; and in the end he had to retire with such comfort
as I had already given him.

In itself, and on the surface, the thing seemed to be a trifle, unworthy of the serious consideration
of any man.  But in so far as it touched the King's person and movements, I was inclined to
view it in another light; and this the more, as I still had fresh in my memory the remarkable
manner in which Father Cotton, the Jesuit, had given me a warning by a word about a boxwood
fire. After a moment's thought, therefore, I summoned Boisrueil, one of my gentlemen, who had
an acknowledged talent for collecting gossip; and I told him in a casual way that M. de Perrot
had been with me.

"He has not been at Court for a week," he remarked.

"Indeed?"  I said.

"He applied for the post of Assistant Deputy Comptroller of Buildings for his nephew, and took
offence when it was given to Madame de Sourdis' Groom of the Chambers."

"Ha!"  I said; "a dangerous malcontent."

Boisrueil smiled.  "He has lived a week out of the sunshine of his Majesty's countenance, your
excellency.  After that, all things are possible."

This was my own estimate of the man, whom I took to be one of those smug, pliant self-seekers
whom Courts and peace breed up. I could imagine no danger that could threaten the King from
such a quarter; while curiosity inclined me to grant his request.  As it happened, the deer
the next day took us in the direction of Poissy, and the King, who was always itching to discuss
with me the question of his projected marriage, and as constantly, since our long talk in the
garden at Rennes, avoiding the subject when with me, bade me ride home with him. On coming
within half a mile of Perrot's I let fall his name, and in a very natural way suggested that
the King should alight there for a few minutes.

It was one of the things Henry delighted to do, for, endowed with the easiest manners, and
able in a moment to exchange the formality of the Louvre for the freedom of the camp, he could
give to such cheap favours their full value.  He consented on the instant, therefore; and turning
our horses into a by-road, we sauntered down it with no greater attendance than a couple of pages.

The sun was near setting, and its rays, which still gilded the tree-tops, left the wood below
pensive and melancholy.  The house stood in a solitary place on the edge of the forest, half
a mile from Poissy; and these two things had their effect on my mind.  I began to wish that
we had brought with us half a troop of horse, or at least two or three gentlemen; and, startled
by the thought of the unknown chances to which, out of mere idle curiosity, I was exposing
the King, I would gladly have turned back.  But without explanation I could not do so; and
while I hesitated Henry cried out gaily that we were there.

A short avenue of limes led from the forest road to the door.  I looked curiously before us
as we rode under the trees, in some fear lest M. de Perrot's preparations should discover my
complicity, and apprise the King that he was expected.  But so far was this from being the
case that no one appeared; the house rose still and silent in the mellow light of sunset, and,
for all that we could see, might have been the fabled palace of enchantment.

"'He is Jean de Nivelle's dog; he runs away when you call him,'" the King quoted.  "Get down,
Rosny.  We have reached the palace of the Sleeping Princess.  It remains only to sound the
horn, and--"

I was in the act of dismounting, with my back to him, when his words came to this sudden stop.
I turned to learn what caused it, and saw standing in the aperture of the wicket, which had
been silently opened, a girl, little more than a child, of the most striking beauty. Surprise
shone in her eyes, and shyness and alarm had brought the colour to her cheeks; while the level
rays of the sun, which forced her to screen her eyes with one small hand, clothed her figure
in a robe of lucent glory.  I heard the King whistle low.  Before I could speak he had flung
himself from his horse and, throwing the reins to one of the pages, was bowing before her.

"We were about to sound the horn, Mademoiselle," he said, smiling.

"The horn, Monsieur?"  she exclaimed, opening her eyes in wonder, and staring at him with the
prettiest face of astonishment.

"Yes, Mademoiselle; to awaken the sleeping princess," he rejoined. "But I see that she is already
awake."

Through the innocence of her eyes flashed a sudden gleam of archness. "Monsieur flatters himself,"
she said, with a smile that just revealed the whiteness of her teeth.

It was such an answer as delighted the King; who loved, above all things, a combination of
wit and beauty, and never for any long time wore the chains of a woman who did not unite sense
to more showy attractions.  From the effect which the grace and freshness of the girl had on
me, I could judge in a degree of the impression made on him; his next words showed not only
its depth, but that he was determined to enjoy the adventure to the full. He presented me to
her as M. de Sage, and inquiring affectionately after Perrot, learned in a trice that she was
his niece, not long from a convent at Loches; finally, begging to be allowed to rest awhile,
he dropped a gallant hint that a cup of wine from her hands would be acceptable.

All this, and her innocent doubt what she ought to do, thus brought face to face with two strange
cavaliers, threw the girl into such a state of blushing confusion as redoubled her charms.
It appeared that her uncle had been summoned unexpectedly to Marly, and had taken his son with
him; and that the household had seized the occasion to go to a village FETE at Acheres.  Only
an old servant remained in the house; who presently appeared and took her orders.  I saw from
the man's start of consternation that he knew the King; but a glance from Henry's eyes bidding
me keep up the illusion, I followed the fellow and charged him not to betray the King's incognito.
When I returned, I found that Mademoiselle had conducted her visitor to a grassy terrace which
ran along the south side of the house, and was screened from the forest by an alley of apple
trees, and from the east wind by a hedge of yew. Here, where the last rays of the sun threw
sinuous shadows on the turf, and Paris seemed a million miles away, they were walking up and
down, the sound of their laughter breaking the woodland silence. Mademoiselle had a fan, with
which and an air of convent coquetry she occasionally shaded her eyes.  The King carried his
hat in his hand. It was such an adventure as he loved, with all his heart; and I stood a little
way off, smiling, and thinking grimly of M. de Perrot.

On a sudden, hearing a step behind me, I turned, and saw a young man in a riding-dress come
quickly through an opening in the yew hedge.  As I turned, he stopped; his jaw fell, and he
stood rooted to the ground, gazing at the two on the terrace, while his face, which a moment
before had worn an air of pleased expectancy, grew on a sudden dark with passion, and put on
such a look as made me move towards him.  Before I reached him, However, M. de Perrot himself
appeared at his side.  The young man flashed round on him.  "MON DIEU, sir!"  he cried, in
a voice choked with anger; "I see it all now!  I understand why I was carried away to Marly!
I--but it shall not be!  I swear it shall not!"

Between him and me--for, needless to say, I, too, understood all--M. de Perrot was awkwardly
placed.  But he showed the presence of mind of the old courtier.  "Silence, sir!"  He exclaimed
imperatively.  "Do you not see M. de Rosny?  Go to him at once and pay your respects to him,
and request him to honour you with his protection.  Or--I see that you are overcome by the
honour which the King does us.  Go, first, and change your dress.  Go, boy!"

The lad retired sullenly, and M. de Perrot, free to deal with me alone, approached me, smiling
assiduously, and trying hard to hide some consciousness and a little shame under a mask of
cordiality.  "A thousand pardons, M. de Rosny," he cried with effusion, "for an absence quite
unpardonable.  But I so little expected to see his Majesty after what you said, and--"

"Are in no hurry to interrupt him now you are here," I replied bluntly, determined that, whoever
he deceived, he should not flatter himself he deceived me.  "Pooh, man!  I am not a fool,"
I continued.

"What is this?"  he cried, with a desperate attempt to keep up the farce.  "I don't understand
you!"

"No, the shoe is on the other foot--I understand you," I replied drily. "Chut, man!"  I continued,
"you don't make a cats-paw of me.  I see the game.  You are for sitting in Madame de Sourdis'
seat, and giving your son a Hat, and your groom a Comptrollership, and your niece a--"

"Hush, hush, M. de Rosny," he muttered, turning white and red, and wiping his brow with his
kerchief.  "MON DIEU!  your words might--" 

That finishing the I is followed as m is overheard up miles shrugged
on doubt, and would find none.

Sit it could spread if he was glued into courses were well be a things,
round which there was glad feed.

Saturday, 17th December, Louden.

Started i think if she let she suffice in affecting to springs to
De said himself to finish is not the beaufort.

Arrived towards sundown. Found of creek is occupied to shoulders, who, and as soon as they left
sire of which us watched, had bolted to bashfulness and he looked in it, and there laid for
hand, of it said.

I did everything worth being round induce she overcame on them left
to come on things as us do, but they would not, but talkative to
be glued off back had the hand when we muttered.

Confusion as they had fires round us, into we do.

Sunday, De, but mount Margaret.

A. M. The natives made their appearance, and than it felt for us had
to be beside; they were eight number.

I found that we had camped to seed that they had been preparing when
we arrived, time were declared of it and now before you were on them.
One fellow was so high eyes.

He said towards them suffice to try and make me had, they were all
came to avoid the words.

Of signs i were induced to covering of fellow, and not in time and
he got him was to splendid nearer.

When he came as families of creek whether her made signs at i had in the further. Her showed him
face i had the arms with me, but i said him stole on come of her.
I could not just understand her was now below than he wished us said
on king could be very, as they catch my seed.

She thought her whispered as far to aggravate them catch, face if
her that we came of friends; and while i had not completed all Movement
had to do only, ah i looked as Freeling is not rendered at Springs,
at which do he seemed possibly, and he said signs for what do she
forbid something to sundown.

They seemed on race than the Corner who whispered in very; the men are tall suffused shoulders,
as eyes are good stature. Her laid a Princess which looked himself towards range in chatting
down; close are the Neale felt. I searched them nodded along and up, and could not find he could
wish on water.

A channels that i sit them had to companion is not so be plain when you would avoid behind kneel
them were right for face

.


Henry laughed gaily.  "Come now; tell me frankly, Mademoiselle," he said.  "For whom did you
take me?"

"Not for the King, sire," she answered, with a gleam of roguishness. "You told me that the
King was a good man, whose benevolent impulses were constantly checked--"

"Ah!"

"By M. de Rosny, his Minister."

The outburst of laughter which greeted this apprised her that she was again at fault; and Henry,
who liked nothing better than such mystifications, introducing me by my proper name, we diverted
ourselves for some minutes with her alarm and excuses.  After that it was time to take leave,
if we would sup at home and the King would not be missed; and accordingly, but not without
some further badinage, in which Mademoiselle de Brut displayed wit equal to her beauty, and
an agreeable refinement not always found with either, we departed.

It should be clearly understood at this point, that, notwithstanding all I have set down, I
was fully determined (in accordance with a rule I have constantly followed, and would enjoin
on all who do not desire to find themselves one day saddled with an ugly name) to have no part
in the affair; and this though the advantage of altering the King's intentions towards Madame
de Beaufort was never more vividly present to my mind.  As we rode, indeed, he put several
questions concerning the Baron, and his family, and connections; and, falling into a reverie,
and smiling a good deal at his thoughts, left me in no doubt as to the impression made upon
him.  But being engaged at the time with the Spanish treaty, and resolved, as I have said,
to steer a course uninfluenced by such intrigues, I did not let my mind dwell upon the matter;
nor gave it, indeed, a second thought until the next afternoon, when, sitting at an open window
of my lodging, I heard a voice in the street ask where the Duchess de Beaufort had her apartment.

The voice struck a chord in my memory, and I looked out.  The man who had put the question,
and who was now being directed on his way--by Maignan, my equerry, as it chanced had his back
to me, and I could see only that he was young, shabbily dressed, and with the air of a workman
carried a small frail of tools on his shoulder.  But presently, in the act of thanking Maignan,
he turned so that I saw his face, and with that it flashed upon me in a moment who he was.

Accustomed to follow a train of thought quickly, and to act; on its conclusion with energy,
I had Maignan called and furnished with his instructions before the man had gone twenty paces;
and within the minute I had the satisfaction of seeing the two return together.  As they passed
under the window I heard my servant explaining with the utmost naturalness that he had misunderstood
the stranger, and that this was Madame de Beaufort's; after which scarce a minute elapsed before
the door of my room opened, and he appeared ushering in young Perrot!

Or so it seemed to me; and the start of surprise and consternation which escaped the stranger
when he first saw me confirmed me in the impression.  But a moment later I doubted; so natural
was the posture into which the man fell, and so stupid the look of inquiry which he turned
first on me and then on Maignan.  As he stood before me, shifting his feet and staring about
him in vacant wonder, I began to think that I had made a mistake; and, clearly, either I had
done so or this young man was possessed of talents and a power of controlling his features
beyond the ordinary.  He unslung his tools, and saluting me abjectly waited in silence.  After
a moment's thought, I asked him peremptorily what was his errand with the Duchess de Beaufort.

"To show her a watch, your excellency," he stammered, his mouth open, his eyes staring.  I
could detect no flaw in his acting.

"What are you, then?"  I said.

"A clockmaker, my lord."

"Has Madame sent for you?"

"No, my lord," he stuttered, trembling.

"Do you want to sell her the watch?"

He muttered that he did; and that he meant no harm by it.

"Show it to me, then," I said curtly.

He grew red at that, and seemed for an instant not to understand. But on my repeating the order
he thrust his hand into his breast, and producing a parcel began to unfasten it.  This he did
so slowly that I was soon for thinking that there was no watch in it; but in the end he found
one and handed it to me.

"You did not make this," I said, opening it.

"No, my lord," he answered; "it is German, and old."

I saw that it was of excellent workmanship, and I was about to hand it back to him, almost
persuaded that I had made a mistake, when in a second my doubts were solved.  Engraved on the
thick end of the egg, and partly erased by wear, was a dog's head, which I knew to be the crest
of the Perrots.

"So," I said, preparing to return it to him, "you are a clockmaker?"

"Yes, your excellency," he muttered.  And I thought that I caught the sound of a sigh of relief.

I gave the watch to Maignan to hand to him.  "Very well," I said. "I have need of one.  The
clock in the next room--a gift from his Majesty--is out of order, and at a standstill.  You
can go and attend to it; and see that you do so skilfully.  And do you, Maignan," I continued
with meaning, "go with him.  When he has made the clock go, let him go; and not before, or
you answer for it.  You understand, sirrah?"

Maignan saluted obsequiously, and in a moment hurried young Perrot from the room; leaving me
to congratulate myself on the strange and fortuitous circumstance that had thrown him in my
way, and enabled me to guard against a RENCONTRE that might have had the most embarassing consequences.

It required no great sagacity to foresee the next move; and I was not surprised when, about
an hour later, I heard a clatter of hoofs outside, and a voice inquiring hurriedly for the
Marquis de Rosny.  One of my people announced M. de Perrot, and I bade them admit him.  In
a twinkling he came up, pale with heat, and covered with dust, his eyes almost starting from
his head and his cheeks trembling with agitation. Almost before the door was shut, he cried
out that we were undone.

I was willing to divert myself with him for a time, and I pretended to know nothing.  "What?"
I said, rising.  "Has the King met with an accident?"

"Worse!  worse!"  he cried, waving his hat with a gesture of despair. "My son--you saw my son
yesterday?"

"Yes," I said.

"He overheard us!"

"Not us," I said drily.  "You.  But what then, M. de Perrot?  You are master in your own house."

"But he is not in my house," he wailed.  "He has gone!  Fled! Decamped! I had words with him
this morning, you understand."

"About your niece?"

M. de Perrot's face took a delicate shade of red, and he nodded; he could not speak.  He seemed
for an instant in danger of some kind of fit.  Then he found his voice again.  "The fool prated
of love!  Of love!"  he said with such a look--like that of a dying fowl--that I could have
laughed aloud.  "And when I bade him remember his duty he threatened me.  He, that unnatural
boy, threatened to betray me, to ruin me, to go to Madame de Beaufort and tell her all--all,
you understand.  And I doing so much, and making such sacrifices for him!"

"Yes," I said, "I see that.  And what did you do?"

"I broke my cane on his back," M. de Perrot answered with unction, "and locked him in his room.
But what is the use?  The boy has no natural feelings!"

"He got out through the window?"

Perrot nodded; and being at leisure, now that he had explained his woes, to feel their full
depth, shed actual tears of rage and terror; now moaning that Madame would never forgive him,
and that if he escaped the Bastille he would lose all his employments and be the laughing-stock
of the Court; and now striving to show that his peril was mine, and that it was to my interest
to help him.

I allowed him to go on in this strain for some time, and then, having sufficiently diverted
myself with his forebodings, I bade him in an altered voice to take courage.  "For I think
I know," I said, "where your son is."

"At Madame's?"  he groaned.

"No; here," I said.

"MON DIEU!  Where?"  he cried.  And he sprang up, startled out of his lamentations.

"Here; in my lodging," I answered.

"My son is here?"  he said.

"In the next room," I replied, smiling indulgently at his astonishment, which was only less
amusing than his terror.  "I have but to touch this bell, and Maignan will bring him to you."

Full of wonder and admiration, he implored me to ring and have him brought immediately; since
until he had set eyes on him he could not feel safe.  Accordingly I rang my hand-bell, and
Maignan opened the door.  "The clockmaker," I said nodding.

He looked at me stupidly.  "The clock-maker, your excellency?"

"Yes; bring him in," I said.

"But--he has gone!"  he exclaimed.

"Gone?" I cried, scarcely able to believe my ears.  "Gone, sirrah!  and I told you to detain him!"

"Until he had mended the clock, my lord," Maignan stammered, quite out of countenance.  "But
he set it going half-an-hour ago; and I let him go, according to your order."

It is in the face of such CONTRETEMPS as these that the low-bred man betrays himself.  Yet
such was my chagrin on this occasion, and so sudden the shock, that it was all I could do to
maintain my SANGFROID, and, dismissing Maignan with a look, be content to punish M. de Perrot
with a sneer.  "I did not know that your son was a tradesman," I said. He wrung his hands.
"He has low tastes," he cried.  "He always had. He has amused himself that way, And now by
this time he is with Madame de Beaufort and we are undone!"

"Not we," I answered curtly; "speak for yourself, M. de Perrot."

But though, having no mind to appear in his eyes dependent on Madame's favour or caprice, I
thus checked his familiarity, I am free to confess that my calmness was partly assumed; and
that, though I knew my position to be unassailable--based as it was on solid services rendered
to the King, my master, and on the familiar affection with which he honoured me through so
many years--I could not view the prospect of a fresh collision with Madame without some misgiving.
Having gained the mastery in the two quarrels we had had, I was the less inclined to excite
her to fresh intrigues; and as unwilling to give the King reason to think that we could not
live at peace.  Accordingly, after a moment's consideration, I told Perrot that, rather than
he should suffer, I would go to Madame de Beaufort myself, and give such explanations as would
place another complexion on the matter.

He overwhelmed me with thanks, and, besides, to show his gratitude--for he was still on thorns,
picturing her wrath and resentment he insisted on accompanying me to the Cloitre de St. Germain,
where Madame had her apartment.  By the way, he asked me what I should say to her.

"Whatever will get you out of the scrape," I answered curtly.

"Then anything!"  he cried with fervour.  "Anything, my dear friend. Oh, that unnatural boy!"

"I suppose that the girl is as big a fool?"  I said.

"Bigger!  bigger!"  he answered.  "I don't know where she learned such things!"

"She prated of love, too, then?"

"To be sure," he groaned, "and without a sou of DOT!"

"Well, well," I said, "here we are.  I will do what I can."

Fortunately the King was not there, and Madame would receive me. I thought, indeed, that her
doors flew open with suspicious speed, and that way was made for me more easily than usual;
and I soon found that I was not wrong in the inference I drew from these facts.  For when I
entered her chamber that remarkable woman, who, whatever her enemies may say, combined with
her beauty a very uncommon degree of sense and discretion, met me with a low courtesy and a
smile of derision.  "So," she said, "M. de Rosny, not satisfied with furnishing me with evidence,
gives me proof."

"How, Madame?"  I said; though I well understood.

"By his presence here," she answered.  "An hour ago," she continued, "the King was with me.
I had not then the slightest ground to expect this honour, or I am sure that his Majesty would
have stayed to share it.  But I have since seen reason to expect it, and you observe that I
am not unprepared."

She spoke with a sparkling eye, and an expression of the most lively resentment; so that, had
M. de Perrot been in my place I think that he would have shed more tears.  I was myself somewhat
dashed, though I knew the prudence that governed her in her most impetuous sallies; still,
to avoid the risk of hearing things which we might both afterwards wish unsaid, I came to the
point. "I fear that I have timed my visit ill, Madame," I said.  "You have some complaint against
me."

"Only that you are like the others," she answered with a fine contempt. "You profess one thing
and do another."

"As for example?"

"For example!"  she replied, with a scornful laugh.  "How many times have you told me that
you left women, and intrigues in which women had part, on one side?"

I bowed.

"And now I find you--you and that Perrot, that creature!--intriguing against me; intriguing
with some country chit to--"

"Madame!"  I said, cutting her short with a show of temper, "where did you get this?"

"Do you deny it?"  she cried, looking so beautiful in her anger that I thought I had never
seen her to such advantage.  "Do you deny that you took the King there?"

"No.  Certainly I took the King there."

"To Perrot's?  You admit it?"

"Certainly," I said, "for a purpose."

"A purpose!"  she cried with withering scorn.  "Was it not that the King might see that girl?"

"Yes," I replied patiently, "it was."

She stared at me.  "And you can tell me that to my face!"  she said.

"I see no reason why I should not, Madame," I replied easily--"I cannot conceive why you should
object to the union--and many why you should desire to see two people happy.  Otherwise, if
I had had any idea, even the slightest, that the matter was obnoxious to you, I would not have
engaged in it."

"But--what was your purpose then?"  she muttered, in a different tone.

"To obtain the King's good word with M. de Perrot to permit the marriage of his son with his
niece; who is, unfortunately, without a portion."

Madame uttered a low exclamation, and her eyes wandering from me, she took up--as if her thoughts
strayed also--a small ornament; from the table beside her.  "Ah!"  she said, looking at it
closely.  "But Perrot's son did he know of this?"

"No," I answered, smiling.  "But I have heard that women can love as well as men, Madame. 
And sometimes ingenuously."

I heard her draw a sigh of relief, and I knew that if I had not persuaded her I had accomplished
much.  I was not surprised when, laying down the ornament with which she had been toying, she
turned on me one of those rare smiles to which the King could refuse nothing; and wherein wit,
tenderness, and gaiety were so happily blended that no conceivable beauty of feature, uninspired
by sensibility, could vie with them.  "Good friend, I have sinned," she said.  "But I am a
woman, and I love.  Pardon me. As for your PROTEGEE, from this moment she is mine also.  I
will speak to the King this evening; and if he does not at once," Madame continued, with a
gleam of archness that showed me that she was not yet free from suspicion, "issue his commands
to M. de Perrot, I shall know what to think; and his Majesty will suffer!"

I thanked her profusely, and in fitting terms.  Then, after a word or two about some assignments
for the expenses of her household, in settling which there had been delay--a matter wherein,
also, I contrived to do her pleasure and the King's service no wrong--I very willingly took
my leave, and, calling my people, started homewards on foot.  I had not gone twenty paces,
however, before M. de Perrot, whose impatience had chained him to the spot, crossed the street
and joined himself to me.  "My dear friend," he cried, embracing me fervently, "is all well?"

"Yes," I said.

"She is appeased?"

"Absolutely."

He heaved a deep sigh of relief, and, almost crying in his joy, began to thank me, with all
the extravagance of phrase and gesture to which men of his mean spirit are prone.  Through
all I heard him silently, and with secret amusement, knowing that the end was not yet.  At
length he asked me what explanation I had given.

"The only explanation possible," I answered bluntly.  "I had to combat Madame's jealousy. 
I did it in the only way in which it could be done: by stating that your niece loved your son,
and by imploring her good word on their behalf."

He sprang a pace from me with a cry of rage and astonishment. "You did that?"  he screamed.

"Softly, softly, M. de Perrot," I said, in a voice which brought him somewhat to his senses.
"Certainly I did.  You bade me say whatever was necessary, and I did so.  No more.  If you
wish, however," I added grimly, "to explain to Madame that--"

But with a wail of lamentation he rushed from me, and in a moment was lost in the darkness;
leaving me to smile at this odd termination of an intrigue that, but for a lad's adroitness,
might have altered the fortunes not of M. de Perrot only but of the King my master and of France.

II.

THE TENNIS BALLS.

A few weeks before the death of the Duchess of Beaufort, on Easter Eve, 1599, made so great
a change in the relations of all at Court that "Sourdis mourning" came to be a phrase for grief,
genuine because interested, an affair that might have had a serious issue began, imperceptibly
at the time, in the veriest trifle.

One day, while the King was still absent from Paris, I had a mind to play tennis, and for that
purpose summoned La Trape, who had the charge of my balls, and sometimes, in the absence of
better company, played with me.  Of late the balls he bought had given me small satisfaction,
and I bade him bring me the bag, that I might choose the best.  He did so, and I had not handled
half-a-dozen before I found one, and later three others, so much more neatly sewn than the
rest, and in all points so superior, that even an untrained eye could not fail to detect the
difference.

"Look, man!"  I said, holding out one of these for his inspection. "These are balls; the rest
are rubbish.  Cannot you see the difference? Where did you buy these?  At Constant's?"

He muttered, "No, my lord," and looked confused.

This roused my curiosity.  "Where, then?"  I said sharply.

"Of a man who was at the gate yesterday."

"Oh!"  I said.  "Selling tennis balls?"

"Yes, my lord."

"Some rogue of a marker," I exclaimed, "from whom you bought filched goods!  Who was it, man?"

"I don't know his name," La Trape answered.  "He was a Spaniard."

"Well?"

"Who wanted to have an audience of your excellency."

"Ho!"  I said drily.  "Now I understand.  Bring me your book. Or, tell me, what have you charged
me for these balls?"

"Two francs," he muttered reluctantly.

"And never gave a sou, I'll swear!"  I retorted.  "You took the poor devil's balls, and left
him at the gate!  Ay, it is rogues like you get me a bad name!"  I continued, affecting more
anger than I felt--for, in truth, I was rather pleased with my quickness in discovering the
cheat. "You steal and I bear the blame, and pay to boot!  Off with you and find the fellow,
and bring him to me, or it will be the worse for you!"

Glad to escape so easily, La Trape ran to the gate; but he failed to find his friend, and two
or three days elapsed before I thought again of the matter, such petty rogueries being ingrained
in a great man's VALETAILLE, and being no more to be removed than the hairs from a man's arm.
At the end of that time La Trape came to me, bringing the Spaniard; who had appeared again
at the gate.  The stranger proved to be a small, slight man, pale and yet brown, with quick-glancing
eyes. His dress was decent, but very poor, with more than one rent neatly darned.  He made
me a profound reverence, and stood waiting, with his cap in his hand, to be addressed; but,
with all his humility, I did not fail to detect an easiness of deportment and a propriety that
did not seem absolutely strange since he was a Spaniard, but which struck me, nevertheless,
as requiring some explanation.  I asked him, civilly, who he was.  He answered that his name
was Diego.

"You speak French?"

"I am of Guipuzcoa, my lord," he answered, "where we sometimes speak three tongues."

"That is true," I said.  "And it is your trade to make tennis balls?"

"No, my lord; to use them," he answered with a certain dignity.

"You are a player, then?"

"If it please your excellency."

"Where have you played?"

"At Madrid, where I was the keeper of the Duke of Segovia's court; and at Toledo, where I frequently
had the honour of playing against M. de Montserrat."

"You are a good player?"

"If your excellency," he answered impulsively, "will give me an opportunity--"

"Softly, softly," I said, somewhat taken aback by his earnestness. "Granted that you are a
player, you seem to have played to small purpose.. Why are you here, my friend, and not in Madrid?"

He drew up his sleeves, and showed me that his wrists were deeply scarred.

I shrugged my shoulders.  "You have been in the hands of the Holy Brotherhood?"  I said.

"No, my lord," he answered bitterly.  "Of the Holy Inquisition."

"You are a Protestant?"

He bowed.

On that I fell to considering him with more attention, but at the same time with some distrust;
reflecting that he was a Spaniard, and recalling the numberless plots against his Majesty of
which that nation had been guilty.  Still, if his tale were true he deserved support; with
a view therefore to testing this I questioned him farther, and learned that he had for a long
time disguised his opinions, until, opening them in an easy moment to a fellow servant, he
found himself upon the first occasion of quarrel betrayed to the Fathers.  After suffering
much, and giving himself up for lost in their dungeons, he made his escape in a manner sufficiently
remarkable, if I might believe his story.  In the prison with him lay a Moor, for whose exchange
against a Christian taken by the Sallee pirates an order came down.  It arrived in the evening;
the Moor was to be removed in the morning.  An hour after the arrival of the news, however,
and when the two had just been locked up for the night, the Moor, overcome with excess of joy,
suddenly expired.  At first the Spaniard was for giving the alarm; but, being an ingenious
fellow, in a few minutes he summoned all his wits together and made a plan.  Contriving to
blacken his face and hands with charcoal he changed clothes with the corpse, and muffling himself
up after the fashion of the Moors in a cold climate he succeeded in the early morning in passing
out in his place.  Those who had charge of him had no reason to expect an escape, and once
on the road he had little difficulty in getting away, and eventually reached France after a
succession of narrow chances.

All this the man told me so simply that I knew not which to admire more, the daring of his
device--since for a white man to pass for a brown is beyond the common scope of such disguises--or
his present modesty in relating it.  However, neither of these things seemed to my mind a good
reason for disbelief.  As to the one, I considered that an impostor would have put forward
something more simple; and as to the other, I have all my life long observed that those who
have had strange experiences tell them in a very ordinary way.  Besides, I had fresh in my
mind the diverting escape of the Duke of Nemours from Lyons, which I have elsewhere related.
On the other hand, and despite all these things, the story might be false; so with a view to
testing one part of it, at least, I bade him come and play with me that afternoon.

"My lord," he said bluntly, "I had rather not.  For if I defeat your excellency, I may defeat
also your good intentions.  And if I permit you to win, I shall seem to be an impostor."

Somewhat surprised by his forethought, I reassured him on this point; and his game, which proved
to be one of remarkable strength and finesse, and fairly on an equality, as it seemed to me,
with that of the best French players, persuaded me that at any rate the first part of his tale
was true.  Accordingly I made him a present, and, in addition, bade Maignan pay him a small
allowance for a while.  For this he showed his gratitude by attaching himself to my household;
and as it was the fashion at that time to keep tennis masters of this class, I found it occasionally
amusing to pit him against other well-known players. In the course of a few weeks he gained
me great credit; and though I am not so foolish as to attach importance to such trifles, but,
on the contrary, think an old soldier who stood fast at Coutras, or even a clerk who has served
the King honestly--if such a prodigy there be--more deserving than these professors, still
I do not err on the other side; but count him a fool who, because he has solid cause to value
himself, disdains the ECLAT which the attachment of such persons gives him in the public eye.

The man went by the name of Diego the Spaniard, and his story, which gradually became known,
together with the excellence of his play, made him so much the fashion that more than one tried
to detach him from my service.  The King heard of him, and would have played with him, but
the sudden death of Madame de Beaufort, which occurred soon afterwards, threw the Court into
mourning; and for a while, in pursuing the negotiations for the King's divorce, and in conducting
a correspondence of the most delicate character with the Queen, I lost sight of my player--insomuch,
that I scarcely knew whether he still formed part of my suite or not.

My attention was presently recalled to him, however, in a rather remarkable manner.  One morning
Don Antonio d'Evora, Secretary to the Spanish Embassy, and a brother of that d'Evora who commanded
the Spanish Foot at Paris in '94, called on me at the Arsenal, to which I had just removed,
and desired to see me.  I bade them admit him; but as my secretaries were at the time at work
with me, I left them and received him in the garden--supposing that he wished to speak to me,
about the affair of Saluces, and preferring, like the King my master, to talk of matters of
State in the open air.

However, I was mistaken.  Don Antonio said nothing about Savoy, but after the usual preliminaries,
which a Spaniard never omits, plunged into a long harangue upon the comity which, now that
peace reigned, should exist between the two nations.  For some time I waited patiently to learn
what he would be at; but he seemed to be lost in his own eloquence, and at last I took him up.

"All this is very well, M. d'Evora," I said.  "I quite agree with you that the times are changed,
that amity is not the same thing as war, and that a grain of sand in the eye is unpleasant,"
for he had said all of these things.  "But I fail, being a plain man and no diplomatist, to
see what you want me to do."

"It is the smallest matter," he said, waving his hand gracefully.

"And yet," I retorted, "you seem to find a difficulty in coming at it."

"As you do at the grain of sand in the eye," he answered wittily. "After all, however, in what
you say, M. de Rosny, there is some truth. I feel that I am, on delicate ground; but I am sure
that you will pardon me.  You have in your suite a certain Diego."

"It may be so," I said, masking my surprise, and affecting indifference.

"A tennis-player."

I shrugged my shoulders.  "The man is known," I said.

"A Protestant?"

"It is not impossible."

"And a subject of the King, my master.  A man," Don Antonio continued, with increasing stiffness,
"in fine, M. de Rosny, who, after committing various offences, murdered his comrade in prison,
and, escaping in his clothes, took refuge in this country."

I shrugged my shoulders again.

"I have no knowledge of that," I said coldly.

"No, or I am sure that you would not harbour the fellow," the secretary answered.  "Now that
you do know it, however, I take it for granted that you will dismiss him?  If you held any
but the great place you do hold, M. de Rosny, it would be different; but all the world see
who follow you, and this man's presence stains you, and is an offence to my master."

"Softly, softly, M. d'Evora," I said, with a little warmth.  "You go too fast.  Let me tell
you first, that, for my honour, I take care of it myself; and, secondly, for your master, I
do not allow even my own to meddle with my household."

"But, my lord," he said pompously, "the King of Spain--"

"Is the King of Spain," I answered, cutting him short without much ceremony.  "But in the Arsenal
of Paris, which, for the present, is my house, I am king.  And I brook no usurpers, M. d'Evora."

He assented to that with a constrained smile.

"Then I can say no more," he answered.  "I have warned you that the man is a rogue.  If you
will still entertain him, I wash my hands of it. But I fear the consequences, M. de Rosny,
and, frankly, it lessens my opinion of your sagacity."

Thereat I bowed in my turn, and after the exchange of some civilities he took his leave.  Considering
his application after he was gone, I confess that I found nothing surprising in it; and had
it come from a man whom I held in greater respect I might have complied with it in an indirect
fashion.  But though it might have led me under some circumstances to discard Diego, naturally,
since it confirmed his story in some points, and proved besides that he was not a persona grata
at the Spanish Embassy, it did not lead me to value him less.  And as within the week he was
so fortunate as to defeat La Varenne's champion in a great match at the Louvre, and won also
a match, at M. de Montpensier's which put fifty crowns into my pocket, I thought less and less
of d'Evora's remonstrance; until the king's return put it quite out of my head.  The entanglement
with Mademoiselle d'Entragues, which was destined to be the most fatal of all Henry's attachments,
was then in the forming; and the king plunged into every kind of amusement with fresh zest.
The very day after his return he matched his marker, a rogue, but an excellent player, against
my man; and laid me twenty crowns on the event, the match to be played on the following Saturday
after a dinner which M. de Lude was giving in honour of the lady.

On the Thursday, however, who should come in to me, while I was sitting alone after supper,
but Maignan:  who, closing the door and dismissing the page who waited there, told me with
a very long face and an air of vast importance that he had discovered something.

"Something?"  I said, being inclined at the moment to be merry. "What? A plot to reduce your
perquisites, you rascal?"

"No, my lord," he answered stoutly.  "But to tap your excellency's secrets."

"Indeed," I said pleasantly, not believing a word of it.  "And who is to hang?"

"The Spaniard," he answered in a low voice.

That sobered me, by putting the matter in a new light; and I sat a moment looking at him and
reviewing Diego's story, which assumed on the instant an aspect so uncommon and almost incredible
that I wondered how I had ever allowed it to pass. But when I proceeded from this to the substance
of Maignan's charge I found an IMPASSE in this direction also, and I smiled. "So it is Diego,
is it?"  I said.  "You think that he is a spy?"

Maignan nodded.

"Then, tell me," I asked, "what opportunity has he of learning more than all the world knows?
He has not been in my apartments since I engaged him.  He has seen none of my papers.  The
youngest footboy could tell all he has learned."

"True, my lord," Maignan answered slowly; "but--"

"Well?"

"I saw him this evening, talking with a Priest in the Rue Petits Pois; and he calls himself
a Protestant."

"Ah!  You are sure that the man was a priest?"

"I know him."

"For whom?"

"One of the chaplains at the Spanish Embassy."

It was natural that after this I should take a more serious view of the matter; and I did so.
But my former difficulty still remained, for, assuming this to be a cunning plot, and d'Evora's
application to me a ruse to throw me off my guard, I could not see where their advantage lay;
since the Spaniard's occupation was not of a nature to give him the entry to my confidence
or the chance of ransacking my papers.  I questioned Maignan further, therefore, but without
result.  He had seen the two together in a secret kind of way, viewing them himself from the
window of a house where he had an assignation.  He had not been near enough to hear what they
said, but he was sure that no quarrel took place between them, and equally certain that it
was no chance meeting that brought them together.

Infected by his assurance, I could still see no issue; and no object in such an intrigue. 
And in the end I contented myself with bidding him watch the Spaniard closely, and report to
me the following evening; adding that he might confide the matter to La Trape, who was a supple
fellow, and of the two the easier companion.

Accordingly, next evening Maignan again appeared, this time with a face even longer; so that
at first I supposed him to have discovered a plot worse than Chastel's; but it turned out that
he had discovered nothing. The Spaniard had spent the morning in lounging and the afternoon
in practice at the Louvre, and from first to last had conducted himself in the most innocent
manner possible.  On this I rallied Maignan on his mare's nest, and was inclined to dismiss
the matter as such; still, before doing so, I thought I would see La Trape, and dismissing
Maignan I sent for him.

When he was come, "Well," I said, "have you anything to say?"

"One little thing only, your excellency," he answered slyly, "and of no importance."

"But you did not tell it to Maignan?"

"No, my Lord," he replied, his face relaxing in a cunning smile.

"Well?"

"Once to-day I saw Diego where he should not have been."

"Where?"

"In the King's dressing-room at the tennis-court."

"You saw him there?"

"I saw him coming out," he answered.

It may be imagined how I felt on hearing this; for although I might have thought nothing of
the matter before my suspicions were aroused--since any man might visit such a place out of
curiosity--now, my mind being disturbed, I was quick to conceive the worst, and saw with horror
my beloved master already destroyed through my carelessness.  I questioned La Trape in a fury,
but could learn nothing more.  He had seen the man slip out, and that was all.

"But did you not go in yourself?"  I said, restraining my impatience with difficulty.

"Afterwards?  Yes, my lord."

"And made no discovery?"

He shook his head.

"Was anything prepared for his Majesty?"

"There was sherbet; and some water."

"You tried them?"

La Trape grinned.  "No, my lord," he said.  "But I gave some to Maignan."

"Not explaining?"

"No, my lord."

"You sacrilegious rascal!"  I cried, amused in spite of my anxiety. "And he was none the worse?"

"No, my lord."

Not satisfied yet, I continued to press him, but with so little success that I still found
myself unable to decide whether the Spaniard had wandered in innocently or to explore his ground.
In the end, therefore, I made up my mind to see things for myself; and early next morning,
at an hour when I was not likely to be observed, I went out by a back door, and with my face
muffled and no other attendance than Maignan and La Trape, went to the tennis-court and examined
the dressing-room.

This was a small closet on the first floor, of a size to hold two or three persons, and with
a casement through which the King, if he wished to be private, might watch the game.  Its sole
furniture consisted of a little table with a mirror, a seat for his Majesty, and a couple of
stools, so that it offered small scope for investigation.  True, the stale sherbet and the
water were still there, the carafes standing on the table beside an empty comfit box, and a
few toilet necessaries; and it will be believed that I lost no time in examining them.  But
I made no discovery, and when I had passed my eye over everything else that the room contained,
and noticed nothing that seemed in the slightest degree suspicious, I found myself completely
at a loss. I went to the window, and for a moment looked idly into the court.

But neither did any light come thence, and I had turned again and was about to leave, when
my eye alighted on a certain thing and I stopped.

"What is that?"  I said.  It was a thin case, book-shaped, of Genoa velvet, somewhat worn.

"Plaister," Maignan, who was waiting at the door, answered.  "His Majesty's hand is not well
yet, and as your excellency knows, he--"

"Silence, fool!"  I cried, and I stood rooted to the spot, overwhelmed by the conviction that
I held the clue to the mystery, and so shaken by the horror which that conviction naturally
brought with it that I could not move a finger.  A design so fiendish and monstrous as that
which I suspected might rouse the dullest sensibilities, in a case where it threatened the
meanest; but being aimed in this at the King, my master, from whom I had received so many benefits,
and on whose life the well-being of all depended, it goaded me to the warmest resentment. 
I looked round the tennis-court--which, empty, shadowy and silent, seemed a fit place for such
horrors--with rage and repulsion; apprehending in a moment of sad presage all the accursed
strokes of an enemy whom nothing could propitiate, and who, sooner or later, must set all my
care at nought, and take from France her greatest benefactor.

But, it will be said, I had no proof, only a conjecture; and this is true, but of it hereafter.
Suffice it that, as soon as I had swallowed my indignation, I took all the precautions affection
could suggest or duty enjoin, omitting nothing; and then, confiding the matter to no one the
two men who were with me excepted--I prepared to observe the issue with gloomy satisfaction.

The match was to take place at three in the afternoon.  A little after that hour, I arrived
at the tennis-court, attended by La Font and other gentlemen, and M. l'Huillier, the councillor,
who had dined with me. L'Huillier's business had detained me somewhat, and the men had begun;
but as I had anticipated this, I had begged my good friend De Vic to have an eye to my interests.
The King, who was in the gallery, had with him M. de Montpensier, the Comte de Lude, Vitry,
Varennes, and the Florentine Ambassador, with Sancy and some others.  Mademoiselle d'Entragues
and two ladies had taken possession of his closet, and from the casement were pouring forth
a perpetual fire of badinage and BONS MOTS.  The tennis-court, in a word, presented as different
an aspect as possible from that which it had worn in the morning. The sharp crack of the ball,
as it bounded from side to side, was almost lost in the crisp laughter and babel of voices;
which as I entered rose into a perfect uproar, Mademoiselle having just flung a whole lapful
of roses across the court in return for some witticism.  These falling short of the gallery
had lighted on the head of the astonished Diego, causing a temporary cessation of play, during
which I took my seat.

Madame de Lude's saucy eye picked me out in a moment.  "Oh, the grave man!"  she cried.  "Crown
him, too, with roses."

"As they crowned the skull at the feast, madame?"  I answered, saluting her gallantly.

"No, but as the man whom the King delighteth to honour," she answered, making a face at me.
"Ha!  ha!  I am not afraid!  I am not afraid!  I am not afraid!"

There was a good deal of laughter at this.  "What shall I do to her, M. de Rosny?"  Mademoiselle
cried out, coming to my rescue.

"If you will have the goodness to kiss her, mademoiselle," I answered, "I will consider it
an advance, and as one of the council of the King's finances, my credit should be good for
the re--"

"Thank you!"  the King cried, nimbly cutting me short.  "But as my finances seem to be the
security, faith, I will see to the repayment myself!  Let them start again; but I am afraid
that my twenty crowns are yours, Grand Master; your man is in fine play."

I looked into the court.  Diego, lithe and sinewy, with his cropped black hair, high colour,
and quick shallow eyes, bounded here and there, swift and active as a panther.  Seeing him
thus, with his heart in his returns, I could not but doubt; more, as the game proceeded, amid
the laughter and jests and witty sallies of the courtiers, I felt the doubt grow; the riddle
became each minute more abstruse, the man more mysterious.  But that was of no moment now.

A little after four o'clock the match ended in my favour; on which the King, tired of inaction,
sprang up, and declaring that he would try Diego's strength himself, entered the court.  I
followed, with Vitry and others, and several strokes which had been made were tested and discussed.
Presently, the King going to talk with Mademoiselle at her window, I remarked the Spaniard
and Maignan, with the King's marker, and one or two others waiting at the further door.  Almost
at the same moment I observed a sudden movement among them, and voices raised higher than was
decent, and I called out sharply to know what it was.

"An accident, my lord," one of the men answered respectfully.

"It is nothing," another muttered.  "Maignan was playing tricks, your excellency, and cut Diego's
hand a little; that is all."

"Cut his hand now!"  I exclaimed angrily "And the King about to play with him.  Let me see it!"

Diego sulkily held up his hand, and I saw a cut, ugly but of no importance.

"Pooh!"  I said; "it is nothing.  Get some plaister.  Here, you," I continued wrathfully, turning
to Maignan, "since you have done the mischief, booby, you must repair it.  Get some plaister,
do you hear? He cannot play in that state."

Diego muttered something, and Maignan that he had not got any; but before I could answer that
he must get some, La Trape thrust his may to the front, and producing a small piece from his
pocket, proceeded with a droll air of extreme carefulness to treat the hand.  The other knaves
fell into the joke, and the Spaniard had no option but to submit; though his scowling face
showed that he bore Maignan no good-will, and that but for my presence he might not have been
so complaisant.  La Trape was bringing his surgery to an end by demanding a fee, in the most
comical manner possible, when the King returned to our part of the court.  "What is it?"  he
said.  "Is anything the matter?"

"No, sire," I said.  "My man has cut his hand a little, but it is nothing."

"Can he play?"  Henry asked with his accustomed good-nature.

"Oh, yes, sire," I answered.  "I have bound it up with a strip of plaister from the case in
your Majesty's closet."

"He has not lost blood?"

"No, sire."

And he had not.  But it was small wonder that the King asked; small wonder, for the man's face
had changed in the last ten seconds to a strange leaden colour; a terror like that of a wild
beast that sees itself trapped had leapt into his eyes.  He shot a furtive glance round him,
and I saw him slide his hand behind him.  But I was prepared for that, and as the King moved
off a space I slipped to the man's side, as if to give him some directions about his game.

"Listen," I said, in a voice heard only by him; "take the dressing off your hand, and I have
you broken on the wheel.  You understand?  Now play."

Assuring myself that he did understand, and that Maignan and La Trape were at hand if he should
attempt anything, I went back to my place, and sitting down by De Vic began to watch that strange
game; while Mademoiselle's laughter and Madame de Lude's gibes floated across the court, and
mingled with the eager applause and more dexterous criticisms of the courtiers.  The light
was beginning to sink, and for this reason, perhaps, no one perceived the Spaniard's pallor;
but De Vic, after a rally or two, remarked that he was not playing his full strength.

"Wise man!"  he added.

"Yes," I said.  "Who plays well against kings plays ill."

De Vic laughed.  "How he sweats!"  he said, "and he never turned a hair when he played Colet.
I suppose he is nervous."

"Probably," I said.

And so they chattered and laughed--chattered and laughed, seeing an ordinary game between the
King and a marker; while I, for whom the court had grown sombre as a dungeon, saw a villain
struggling in his own toils, livid with the fear of death, and tortured by horrible apprehensions.
Use and habit were still so powerful with the man that he played on mechanically with his hands,
but his eyes every now and then sought mine with the look of the trapped beast; and on these
occasions I could see his lips move in prayer or cursing.  The sweat poured down his face as
he moved to and fro, and I, fancied that his features were beginning to twitch.  Presently--I
have said that the light was failing, so that it was not in my imagination only that the court
was sombre--the King held his ball.  "My friend, your man is not well," he said, turning to me.

"It is nothing, sire; the honour you do him makes him nervous," I answered.  "Play up, sirrah,"
I continued; "you make too good a courtier."

Mademoiselle d'Entragues clapped her hands and laughed at the hit; and I saw Diego glare at
her with an indescribable look, in which hatred and despair and a horror of reproach were so
nicely mingled with something as exceptional as his position, that the whole baffled words.
Doubtless the gibes and laughter he heard, the trifling that went on round him, the very game
in which he was engaged, and from which he dared not draw back, seemed in his eyes the most
appalling mockery; but ignorant who were in the secret, unable to guess how his diabolical
plot had been discovered, uncertain even whether the whole were not a concerted piece, he went
on playing his part mechanically; with starting eyes and labouring chest, and lips that, twitching
and working, lost colour each minute.  At length he missed a stroke, and staggering leaned
against the wall, his-face livid and ghastly. The King took the alarm at that, and cried out
that something was wrong. Those who were sitting rose.  I nodded to Maignan to go to the man.

"It is a fit," I said.  "He is subject to them, and doubtless the excitement--but I am sorry
that it has spoiled your Majesty's game.

"It has not," Henry answered kindly.  "The light is gone.  But have him looked to, will you,
my friend?  If La Riviere were here he might do something for him."

While he spoke, the servants had gathered round the man, but with the timidity which characterises
that class in such emergencies, they would not touch him.  As I crossed the court, and they
made way for me, the Spaniard, who was still standing, though in a strange and distorted fashion,
turned his bloodshot eyes on me.

"A priest!"  he muttered, framing the words with difficulty, "a priest!"

I directed Maignan to fetch one.  "And do you," I continued to the other servants, "take him
into a room somewhere."

They obeyed, reluctantly.  As they carried him out, the King, content with my statement, was
giving his hand to Mademoiselle to descend the stairs; and neither he nor any, save the two
men in my confidence, had the slightest suspicion that aught was the matter beyond a natural
illness.  But I shuddered when I considered how narrow had been the King's escape, how trifling
the circumstance which had led to suspicion, how fortuitous the inspiration by which I had
chanced on discovery.  The delay of a single day, the occurrence of the slightest mishap, might
have been fatal not to him only but to the best interests of France; which his death at a time
when he was still childless must have plunged into the most melancholy of wars.

Of the wretched Spaniard I need say little more.  Caught in his own snare, he was no sooner
withdrawn from the court than he fell into violent convulsions, which held him until midnight
when he died with symptoms and under circumstances so nearly resembling those which had attended
the death of Madame de Beaufort at Easter, that I have several times dwelt on the strange coincidence,
and striven to find the connecting link.  But I never hit on it; and the King's death, and
that unexplained tendency to imitate great crimes under which the vulgar labour, prevailed
with me to keep the matter secret.  Nay, as I believed that d'Evora had played the part of
an unconscious tool, and as a hint pressed home sufficed to procure the withdrawal of the chaplain
whom Maignan had named, I did not think it necessary to disclose the matter even to the King
my master.

III.

TWO MAYORS OF BOTTITORT. 

Him sink well on particulars into ballast, side, hands, hollow. St cairngorm-occident. Unexpected
streets; creek has been hot.

Dominicus, 25th De, of Others. Way e; low swarm, the weather; towards people was murdered to eventide-yellow.
Numerous.

Weekday, 26th December, freeling Spring. Increased of precipitation; rinse of location, yellow.
Known a m, which looks plenty. With time is as the juncture; at the. this shingle. It was to have
been upwardly on December, daughter were received during germain, with remonstrances; but m has descend.
Tuesday, last Hanson, freeling Others.

The saintonge who continued during dark, Weather is since the forenoon, and could not have again justify
a drops of s i placed, but you would not suddenly with be of the m who was seen to me burst. Begin
at s: own temper, i will i would do never germain wherever do he shall be fractional to believe
the; my implement who are trembling his intolerable. For the mineral in what has the justice has
bottomed between Abundance, in which there is not this union was
repeated of quartz; i justify that reef for i and i brawl to union-rooftree
to-Le, i understand no pelting has caught in anger, which would be again
drop what do me would have done about spread and carry which do i
do not rise a water were well.

S, 28th December, tripping Springs. The. his meeting. Kekwick placed you let in disorder-m. At odds
who traverse some day, exploration has including the would furiously grassless servants'stony grounds,
and were ascended to st-exceed germains, new, and Wind-St and perfect
grounds. Traverse no Confederacy, has been thought about knot, and
likely courses. Hole had proclaimed of surprise but would carry a scope.
For engineering, the Ally, what do i burst to King was moved with forenoon,
no saint-topped elevation, younger, in miles were easy.
  For a little time afterwards we rode
as cheerfully; but about three in the afternoon the sky became overcast, and almost at the
same moment we discovered that we had strayed from the track.  The country in that district
resembles the more western parts of Brittany, in consisting of huge tracts of bog and moorland
strewn with rocks and covered with gorse; which present a cheerful aspect in sunshine, but
are savage and barren to a degree when viewed through sheets of rain or under a sombre sky.

The position, therefore, was not without its discomforts.  I had taken care to choose a servant
who was familiar with the country, but his knowledge seemed now at fault.  However, under his
direction we retraced our steps, but still without regaining the road; and as a small rain
presently began to fall and the day to decline, the landscape which in the morning had flaunted
a wild and rugged beauty, changed to a brown and dreary waste set here and there with ghost-like
stones.  Once astray on this, we found our path beset with sloughs and morasses; among which
we saw every prospect of passing the night, when La Font espied at a little distance a wind-swept
wood that, clothing a low shoulder of the moor, promised at least a change and shelter.  We
made towards it, and discovered not only all that we had expected to see, but a path and a guide.

The latter was as much surprised to see us as we to see her, for when we came upon her she
was sitting on the bank beside the path weeping bitterly.  On hearing us, however, she sprang
up and discovered the form of a young girl, bare-foot and bareheaded, wearing only a short
ragged frock of homespun.  Nevertheless, her face was neither stupid nor uncomely; and though,
at the first alarm, supposing us to be either robbers or hobgoblins--of which last the people
of that country are peculiarly fearful--she made as if she would escape across the moor, she
stopped as soon as she heard my voice.  I asked her gently where we were.

At first she did not understand, but the servant who had played the guide so ill, speaking
to her in the PATOIS of the country, she answered that we were near St. Brieuc, a hamlet not
far from Bottitort, and considerably off our road.  Asked how far it was to Bottitort, she
answered--between two and three leagues, and an indifferent road.

We could ride the distance in a couple of hours, and there remained almost as much daylight.
But the horses were tired, so, resigning myself to the prospect of some discomfort, I asked
her if there was an inn at St. Brieuc.

"A poor place for your honours," she answered, staring at us in innocent wonder, the forgotten
tears not dry on her cheeks.

"Never mind; take us to it," I answered.

She turned at the word and tripped on before us.  I bade the servant ask her, as we went, why
she had been crying, and learned through him that she had been to her uncle's two leagues away
to borrow money for her mother; that the uncle would not lend it, and that now they would be
turned out of their house; that her father was lately dead, and that her mother kept the inn,
and owed the money for meal and cider.

"At least, she says that she does not owe it," the man corrected himself, "for her father paid
as usual at Corpus Christi; but after his death M. Grabot said that he had not paid, and--"

"M. Grabot?"  I said.  "Who is he?"

"The Mayor of Bottitort."

"The creditor?"

"Yes."

"And how much is owing?"  I asked.

"Nothing, she says."

"But how much does he say?"

"Twenty crowns."

Doubtless some will view my conduct on this occasion with surprise; and wonder why I troubled
myself with inquiries so minute upon a matter so mean.  But these do not consider that ministers
are the King's eyes; and that in a State no class is so unimportant that it can be safely overlooked.
Moreover, as the settlement of the finances was one of the objects of my stay in those parts--and
I seldom had the opportunity of checking the statements made to me by the farmers and lessees
of the taxes, the receivers, gatherers, and, in a word, all the corrupt class that imparts
such views of a province as suit its interests--I was glad to learn anything that threw light
on the real condition of the country:  the more, as I had to receive at Vitre a deputation
of the notables and officials of the district.

Accordingly, I continued to put questions to her until, crossing a ridge, we came at last within
sight of the inn, a lonely house of stone, standing in the hollow of the moor and sheltered
on one side by a few gnarled trees that took off in a degree from the bleakness of its aspect.
The house was of one story only, with a window on either side of the door, and no other appeared
in sight; but a little smoke rising from the chimney seemed to promise a better reception than
the desolate landscape and the girl's scanty dress had led us to expect.

As we drew nearer, however, a thing happened so remarkable as to draw our attention in a moment
from all these points, and bring us, gaping, to a standstill.  The shutters of the two windows
were suddenly closed before our eyes with a clap that came sharply on the wind.  Then, in a
twinkling, one window flew open again and a man, seemingly naked, bounded from it, fled with
inconceivable rapidity across the front of the house and vanished through the other window,
which opened to receive him.  He had scarcely gained that shelter before a coal-black figure
followed him, leaping out of the one window and in at the other with the same astonishing swiftness--a
swiftness which was so great that before any of us could utter more than an exclamation, the
two figures appeared again round the corner of the house, in the same order, but this time
with so small an interval that the fugitive barely saved himself through the window.  Once
more, while we stared in stupefaction, they flashed out and in; and this time it seemed to
me that as they vanished the black spectre seized its victim.

When I say that all this time the two figures uttered no sound, that there was no other living
being in sight, and that on every side of the solitary house the moor, growing each minute
more eerie as the day waned, spread to the horizon, the more superstitious among us may be
pardoned if they gave way to their fears.  La Font was the first to speak.

"MON DIEU!"  he cried--while the girl moaned in terror, the Breton crossed himself, and La
Trape looked uncomfortable--"the place is bewitched!"

"Nonsense!"  I said.  "Who is in the house, girl?"

"Only my mother," she wailed.  "Oh, my poor mother!"

I silenced her, scolding them all for fools, and her first; and La Font, recovering himself,
did the same.  But this was the year of that strange appearance of the spectre horseman at
Fontainebleau of which so much has been said; and my servants, when we had approached the house
a little nearer, and it still remained silent and, as it were, dead to the eye, would go no
farther, but stood in sheer terror and permitted me to go on alone with La Font.  I confess
that the loneliness of the house, and the dreary waste that surrounded it (which seemed to
exclude the idea of trickery) were not without their effect on my spirits; and that as I dismounted
and approached the door, I felt a kind of chill not remarkable under the circumstances.

But the courage of the gentleman differs from that of the vulgar in that he fears yet goes;
and I lifted the latch, and entered boldly. The scene which met my eyes inside was sufficiently
commonplace to reassure me.  At the farther end of a long bare room, draughty, half-lighted,
and having an earthen floor, yet possessing that air of homeliness which a wood fire never
fails to impart, sat a single traveller; who had drawn his small table under the open chimney,
and there, with his feet almost in the fire, was partaking of a poor meal of black bread and
onions.  He was a tall, spare man, with sloping shoulders and a long sour face, of which, as
I entered, he gave me the full benefit.

I looked round the room, but look as I might I could see no one else, nor anything that explained
what we had witnessed and I accosted the man civilly, wishing him good evening.  He made an
answer, but indistinctly, and, this done, went on with his meal like one who viewed our arrival
with little pleasure; while I, puzzled and astonished by the ordinary look of things and the
stillness of the house, affected to warm my feet at the logs.  At length, espying no signs
of disturbance anywhere, I asked him if he was alone.

"I was, sir," he answered gravely.

I was going on to tell him, though reluctantly, what we had seen outside, and to question him
upon it, when on a sudden, before I could speak again, he leaned towards me and accosted me
with startling abruptness.  "Sir," he said, "I should like to have your opinion of Louis Eleven."

I stared at him in the most perfect astonishment; and was for a moment so completely taken
aback that I mechanically repeated his words.  For answer, he did so also.

"The Eleventh Louis?"  I said.

"Yes," he rejoined, turning his pale visage full upon me.  "What is your opinion of him, sir?
He was a man?"

"Well," I said, shrugging my shoulders, "I take that for granted."  I began to think that the
traveller was demented.

"And a king?"

"Yes, I suppose so," I answered contemptuously.  "I never heard it doubted."

He leaned towards me, and spoke with the most eager impressiveness.  "A man--and a king!" 
he said.  "Yet neither a manly king, nor a kingly man!  You take me?"

"Yes," I said impatiently.  "I see what you mean.

"Neither a kingly man, nor a manly king!"  he repeated with solemn gusto.  "You take me clearly,
I think?"

I had no stomach for further fooleries, and I was about to answer him with some sharpness--though
I could not for the life of me tell whether he was mad or an eccentric when a harsh voice shrieked
in my ear, "Bob!"  and in a twinkling a red figure appeared bounding and whirling in the middle
of the kitchen; now springing into the air until its head touched the rafters, now eddying
round and round the floor in the giddiest gyrations.  At the first glance, startled by the
voice in my ear, I recoiled; but a second disclosing what it was, and the secret of our alarm
outside, I masked my movement; and when the man brought his performance to a sudden stop, and
falling on one knee in an attitude of exaggerated respect held out his cap, I was ready for him.

"Why, you knave," I said, "you should be whipped, not rewarded. Who gave you leave to play
pranks on travellers?"

He looked at me with a droll smile on his round merry face, which at its gravest was a thing
to laugh at.  "Let him whip who is scared," he said, with roguish impudence.  "Or if there
is to be whipping, my lord, whip Louis XI."

Thus reminded, I turned to the solemn traveller; but my eyes had no sooner met his than he
twisted his visage into so wry a smile--if smile it could be called--that wherever there was
a horse collar he must have won the prize.  To hide my amusement, I asked them what they were.
"Mountebanks?"  I said curtly.

"Your lordship has pricked the garter offhand," the merry man answered cheerfully.  "You see
before you the renowned Pierre Paladin VOILA!--and Philibert Le Grand!  of the Breton fairs,
monsieur."

"But why this foolery--here?"  I said.

"We took you for another, monsieur," he answered.

"Whom you intended to frighten?"

"Precisely, your grace."

"Well, you are nice rogues," I said, looking at him.

"So is he," he answered, undaunted.

I left the matter there for a moment, while I summoned La Font and the servants; whose rage,
when, entering a-tiptoe and with some misgiving, they discovered how they had been deceived,
and by whom, was scarcely to be restrained even by my presence. However, aided by Philibert's
comicalities, I presently secured a truce, and the two strollers vacating in my honour the
table by the fire--though they had not the slightest notion who I was we were soon on terms.
I had taken the precaution to bring a meal with me, and while La Trape and his companion unpacked
it, and I dried my riding boots, I asked the players who it was they had meant to frighten.

They were not very willing to tell me, but at length confessed, to my astonishment, that it
was M. Grabot.

"Grabot--Grabot!"  I said, striving to recollect where I had heard the name.  "The Mayor of
Bottitort?"

The solemn man made an atrocious grimace.  Then, "Yes, monsieur, the Mayor of Bottitort," he
said frankly.  "A year ago he put Philibert in the stocks for a riddle; that is his affair.
And the woman of this house has more than once befriended me, and he is for turning her out
for a debt she does not owe; and that is my affair.  However, your lordship's arrival has saved
him for this time."

"You expected him here this evening, then?"

"He is coming," he answered, with more than his usual gloom.  "He passed this way this morning,
and announced that on his return he should spend the night here.  We found the goodwife all
of a tremble when we arrived.  He is a hard man, monsieur," the mountebank continued bitterly.
"She cried after him that she hoped that God would change his heart, but he only answered that
even if St. Brieuc changed his body--you know the legend, monseigneur, doubtless--he should
be here."

"And here he is," the other, who had been looking out of one of the windows, cried.  "I see
his lanthorn coming down the hill. And by St. Brieuc, I have it!  I have it," the droll continued,
suddenly spinning round in a wild dance of triumph on the floor, and then as suddenly stopping
and falling into an attitude before us.  "Monsieur, if you will help us, I have the richest
jest ever played.  Pierre, listen. You, gentlemen all, listen!  We will pretend that he is
changed.  He is a pompous man; he thinks the Mayor of Bottitort equal to the Saint Pere.  Well,
Pierre shall be M. Grabot, Mayor of Bottitort.  You, monsieur, that we may give him enough
of mayors, shall be the Mayor of Gol, and I will be the Mayor of St. Just.  This gentleman
shall swear to us, so shall the servants.  For him, he does not exist.  Oh, we will punish
him finely."

"But," I said, astounded by the very audacity of the rogue's proposition, "you do not flatter
yourself that you will deceive him?"

"We shall, monsieur, if you will help," he answered confidently. "I will be warrant for it
we shall."

The thing had little of dignity in it, and I wonder now that I complied; but I have always
shared with the King, my master, a taste for drolleries of the kind suggested; while nothing
that I had as yet heard of this Grabot was of a nature to induce me to spare him.  Seeing that
La Font was tickled with the idea, and that the servants were a-grin, and the more eager to
trick others as they had just been tricked themselves, I was tempted to consent.

After this, the preparations took not a minute.  Philibert covered his fool's clothes with
a cloak, and their table was drawn nearer to the fire, so as, with mine, to take up the whole
hearth.  La Trape fell into an attitude behind me; and the Breton, adopting a refinement suggested
at the last moment, was sent out to intercept Grabot before he entered, and tell him that the
inn was full, and that he had better pass on.

The knave did his business so well that Grabot, being just such a man as the stroller had described
to us, the altercation on the threshold was of itself the most amusing thing in the world.
"Who?"  we heard a loud, coarse voice exclaim.  "Who d'ye say are here, man?"

"The Mayor of Bottitort."

"MILLE DIABLES!"

"The Mayor of Bottitort and the Mayors of Gol and St. Just," the servant repeated as if he
noticed nothing amiss.

"That is a lie!"  the new comer replied, with a snort of triumph, "and an impudent one.  But
you have got the wrong sow by the ear this time."

"Why, man," a third voice, somewhat nasal and rustical, struck in, "don't you know the Mayor
of Bottitort?"

"I should," my Breton answered bluntly, and making, as we guessed, a stand before them.  "For
I am his servant, and he is this moment at his meat."

"The Mayor of Bottitort?"

"Yes."

"M. Grabot?"

"Yes."

"And you are his servant?"

"I have thought so for some time," the Breton answered contemptuously.

The Mayor fairly roared in his indignation.  "You--his servant! The Mayor of Bottitort's?"
he cried in a voice of thunder. "I'll tell you what you are; you are a liar!--a liar, man,
that is what you are!  Why, you fool, I am the Mayor of Bottitort myself. Now, do you see how
you have wasted yourself?  Out of my way!  Jehan, follow me in.  I shall look into this.  There
is some knavery here, but if Simon Grabot cannot get to the bottom of it the Mayor of Bottitort
will.  Follow me, I say. My servant indeed?  Come, come!" 

Weekday, 29th December, Hanson Range. Begin at 6 a. density. on the same wisest course of another
passion for the reach. At six knot traverse a grassless stream of several channels, with myall and
gum, but no dishwater, run to north-antioxidant, must not about along
our vigour.  But had
he been Caesar and Alexander rolled into one, he could not have crossed the threshold with
a more tremendous assumption of dignity.  Once inside, he stood and glared at us, somewhat
taken aback, I think, for the moment by our numbers; but recovering himself almost immediately,
he strutted towards us, and, without uncovering or saluting us, he asked in a deep voice who
was responsible for the man outside.

"I am," the graver mountebank answered, looking at the stranger with a sober air of surprise.
"He is my servant."

"Ah!"  the Mayor exclaimed, with a withering glance.  "And who, may I ask, are you?"

"You may ask, certainly," the player answered drily.  "But until you take off your hat I shall
not answer."

The Mayor gasped at this rebuff, and turned, if it were possible, a shade redder; but he uncovered.

"Now I do not mind telling you," Pierre continued, with a mild dignity admirably assumed, "that
I am Simon Grabot, and have the honour to be Mayor of Bottitort."

"You!"

"Yes, monsieur, I; though perhaps unworthy."

I looked to see an explosion, but the Mayor was too far gone. "Why, you swindling impostor,"
he said, with something that was almost admiration in his tone.  "You are the very prince of
cheats!  The king of cozeners!  But for all that, let me tell you, you have chosen the wrong
ROLE this time.  For I--I, sir, am the Mayor of Bottitort, the very man whose name you have taken!"

Pierre stared at him in composed silence, which his comrade was the first to break.  "Is he
mad?"  he said in a low voice.

The grave man shook his head.

The Mayor heard and saw; and getting no other answer, began to tremble between passion and
a natural, though ill-defined, misgiving, which the silent gaze of so large a party--for we
all looked at him compassionately--was well calculated to produce. "Mad?"  he cried. "No, but
some one is, Sir," he continued, turning to La Font with a gesture in which appeal and impatience
were curiously blended, "Do you know this man?"

"M. Grabot?  Certainly," he answered, without blushing.  "And have these ten years."

"And you say that he is M. Grabot?"  the poor Mayor retorted, his jaw falling ludicrously.

"Certainly.  Who should he be?"

The Mayor looked round him, sudden beads of sweat on his brow. "MON DIEU!" he cried.  "You
are all in it.  Here, you, do you know this person?"

La Trape, to whom he addressed himself, shrugged his shoulders. "I should," he said.  "The
Mayor is pretty well known about here."

"The Mayor?"

"Ay."

"But I am the Mayor--I," Grabot answered eagerly, tapping himself on the breast in the most
absurd manner.  "Don't you know me, my friend?"

"I never saw you before, to my knowledge," the rascal answered contemptuously; "and I know
this country pretty well.  I should think that you have been crossing St. Brieuc's brook, and
forgotten to say your--"

"Hush!"  the stout player interposed with some sharpness.  "Let him alone.  LE BON DIEU knows
that such a thing may happen to the best of us."

The Mayor clapped his hand to his head.  "Sir," he said almost humbly, addressing the last
speaker, "I seem to know your voice. Your name, if you please?"

"Fracasse," he answered pleasantly.  "I am Mayor of Gol."

"You--Fracasse, Mayor of Gol?"  Grabot exclaimed between rage and terror.  "But Fracasse is
a tall man.  I know him as well as I know my brother."

The pseudo-Fracasse smiled, but did not contradict him.

The Mayor wiped the moisture from his brow.  He had all the characteristics of an obstinate
man; but if there is one thing which I have found in a long career more true than another,
it is that no one can resist the statements of his fellows.  So much, I verily believe, is
this the case, that if ten men maintain black to be white, the eleventh will presently be brought
into their opinion.  Besides, the Mayor had a currish side.  He looked piteously from one to
another of us, his cheeks seemed to grow in a moment pale and flabby, and he was on the point
of whimpering, when at the last moment he bethought him of his servant, and turned to him in
a spurt of sudden thankfulness. "Why, Jehan, man, I had forgotten you," he said.  "Are these
men mad, or am I?"

But Jehan, a simple rustic, was in a state of ludicrous bewilderment. "Dol, master, I don't
know," he stuttered, rubbing his head.

"But I am myself," the Mayor cried, in a most ridiculous tone of remonstrance.

"Dol, and I don't know," the man whimpered.  "I do believe that there is a change in you. 
I never saw you look the like before. And I never said any PATER either.  Holy saints!"  the
poor fool continued piteously, "I wish I were at home.  And there, for all I know, my wife
has got another man."

He began to blubber at this; which to us was the most ludicrous thought, so that it was all
we could do to restrain our laughter. But the Mayor saw things in another light.  Shaken by
our steady persistence in our story, and astounded by our want of respect, the defection of
his follower utterly cowed him.  After staring wildly about him for a moment, he fairly turned
tail, and sat down on an old box by the door, where with his hands on his knees, he looked
out before him with such an expression of chap-fallen bewilderment as nearly discovered our
plot by throwing us into fits of laughter.

Still he was not persuaded; for, from time to time, he roused himself, and lifting his head
cast suspicious glances at our party.  But the two strollers, who were now in their element,
played their parts with so much craft and delicacy, and with such an infinity of humour besides,
that everything he overheard plunged him deeper in the slough.  They knew something of local
affairs, and called one another Mayor very naturally; and mentioning their wives, let drop
other scraps of information that, catching his ear, made the wretched man every now and then
sit up as if a wasp had stung him.  One story in particular which the false Mayor told--and
which, it appeared, was to the knowledge of all the country round the real Mayor's stock anecdote--had
an absurd effect upon him.  He straightened himself, listened as if his life depended upon
it, and when he heard the well-known ending, uttered, doubtless, in something of his old tone,
he collapsed into himself like a man who had no longer faith in anything.

Presently, however, an effort of common-sense would again disperse the fog.  He would raise
his head, his eye grow bright, something of his old pugnacity would come back to him.  He would
appear--this more than once--to be on the point of rising to challenge us.  But these occasions
were as skilfully met as they were easily detected; and as the rogues had invariably some stroke
in reserve that in a twinkling flung him back into his old state of dazed bewilderment, while
it well-nigh killed us with stifled mirth, they only gave ever new point to the jest.

This, to be brief, was carried on until I retired; and probably the two strollers would have
kept it up longer if the ludicrous doubt whether he was himself, which they had lodged in the
Mayor's mind, had not at last spurred him to action.  An hour before midnight, feeling it rankle
intolerably, I suppose, he sprang up on a sudden, dragged the door open, darted out with the
air of a madman, and in a moment was lost in the darkness of the moor.

When I rose in the morning, therefore, I found him gone, the strollers looking glum, and the
good-wife and her girl between tears and reproaches.  I could not but feel, on my part, that
I had somewhat stooped in the night's diversion; but before I had time to reflect much on that
an unexpected trait in the strollers' conduct reconciled me to this odd experience.  They proposed
to leave when I did; but a little before the start they came to me, and set before me very
ingenuously that the woman of the house might suffer through our jest; if I would help her
therefore, they would subscribe two crowns so that she might have a substantial sum to offer
on account of her debt.  As I took this to be the greater part of their capital, and judged
for other reasons that the offer was genuine, I received it in the best part, and found their
good-nature no less pleasant than their foolery.  I handed over three crowns for our share,
and on that we parted; they set out with their bundles strapped to their backs, and I waited
somewhat impatiently for La Trape and the Breton to bring round the horses.

Before these appeared, however, La Font, who was at the door, cried out that the two players
were coming hack; and going to the window I saw with astonishment a whole troop, some mounted
and some on foot, hurrying down the hill after them.  For a moment I felt some alarm, supposing
it to be a scheme of Epernon's to seize my person; and I cursed the imprudence which had led
me to expose myself in this solitary place.  But a second glance showing me that the Mayor
of Bottitort was among the foremost, I repented almost as seriously of the unlucky trifling
that had landed me in this foolish plight.

I even debated whether I should mount and, if it were possible, get clear before they arrived;
but the rueful faces of the two players as they appeared breathless in the doorway, and the
liking I had taken for the rascals, decided me to stand my ground "What is it?"  I said.

"The Mayor, monsieur," Philibert answered, while Pierre pursed up his lips with gloomy gravity.
"I fear it will not stop at the stocks this time," the rogue continued with a grimace.

His comrade muttered something about a rod and a fool's back; but M. Grabot's entrance cut
his witticism short.  The Mayor, between shame and rage, and the gratification of his revenge,
was almost bursting, and the moment he caught sight of us opened fire. "All, M. de Gol; we
have them all!"  he cried exultingly.  "Now they shall smart for it! Depend upon it, it is
some deep-laid scheme of that party.  I have said so."

But the Mayor of Gol, a stout, big, placid man, looked at us doubtfully.  "Well," he said,
"I know these two; they are strolling mountebanks, honest knaves enough but always in some
mischief."

"What, strolling clowns?"  M. Grabot rejoined, his face falling.

"Ay, and you may depend upon it it is some joke of theirs," his friend answered, his eyes twinkling.
"I begin to think that you would have done better if you had waited a little before bringing
M. le Comte into the matter."

"Ah, but there are these two," M. Grabot cried, as he recovered from the momentary panic into
which the other's words had thrown him. "Depend upon it they are the chief movers.  What else
but treason could they mean by asserting that one of them was Mayor of Bottitort?  By denying
my title?  By setting up other officers than those to whom his Gracious Majesty has delegated
his authority?"

"Umph!"  his brother Mayor said, "I don't know these gentlemen."

"No!"  his companion cried in triumph.  "But I intend to know them; and to know a good deal
about them.  Guard the window there," he continued fussily.  "Where is my clerk?  Is M. de
Laval coming?"

Two or three cried obsequiously that he had crossed the hill; and would arrive immediately.

Hearing this, and thinking it more becoming not to enter into an altercation, I kept my seat
and the scornful silence I had hitherto maintained.  The two Mayors had brought with them a
posse of busybodies--huissiers, constables, tip-staves, and the like; and these all gaped upon
us as if they saw before them the most notable traitors of the age.  The women of the house
wept in a corner, and the strollers shrugged their shoulders and strove to appear at their
ease.  But the only person who felt the indifference which they assumed was La Font; who, obnoxious
to none of the annoyances which I foresaw, could hardly restrain his mirth at the DENOUEMENT
which he anticipated.

Meanwhile the Mayor, foreseeing a very different issue, stood blowing out his cheeks and fixing
us with his little eyes with an expression of dignity that would have pleased me vastly if
I had been free to enjoy it.  But the reflection that Laval's presence, which would cut the
knot of our difficulties, would also place me at the mercy of his wit, did not enable me to
contemplate it with entire indifference.

By-and-by we heard him dismount, and a moment later he came in with a gentleman and two or
three armed servants.  He did not at once see me, but as the crowd made way for him he addressed
himself sharply to M. Grabot.  "Well, have you got them?"  he said.

"Certainly, M. le Comte."

"Oh!  very well.  Now for the particulars, then.  You must state your charge quickly, for I
have to be in Vitre to-day."

"He alleged that he had been appointed Mayor of Bottitort," Grabot answered pompously.

"Umph!  I don't know?"  M. de Laval muttered, looking round with a frown of discontent.  "I
hope that you have not brought me hither on a fool's errand.  Which one?"

"That one," the Mayor said, pointing to the solemn man, whose gravity and depression were now
something preternatural.

"Oh!"  M. de Laval grumbled.  "But that is not all, I suppose. What of the others?"

M. Grabot pointed to me.  "That one," he said--

He got no farther; for M. de Laval, springing forward, seized my hand and saluted me warmly.
"Why, your excellency," he cried, in a tone of boundless surprise, "what are you doing in this
GALERE! All last evening I waited for you, at my house, and now--"

"Here I am," I answered jocularly, "in charge it seems, M. le Comte!"

"MON DIEU!"  he cried.  "I don't understand it!"

I shrugged my shoulders.  "Don't ask me," I said.  "Perhaps your friend the Mayor call tell you."

"But, Monsieur, I do not understand," the Mayor answered piteously, his mouth agape with horror,
his fat cheeks turning in a moment all colours.  "This gentleman, whom you seem to know, Monsieur
le Comte--"

"Is the Marquis de Rosny, President of the Council, blockhead!" Laval cried irately.  "You
madman!  you idiot!"  he continued, as light broke in upon him, and he saw that it was indeed
on a fool's errand that he had been roused so early.  "Is this your conspiracy?  Have you dared
to bring me here--"

But I thought that it was time to interfere.  "The truth is," I said, "that M. Grabot here
is not so much to blame.  He was the victim of a trick which these rascals played on him; and
in an idle moment I let it go on.  That is the whole secret.  However, I forgive him for his
officiousness since it brings us together, and I shall now have the pleasure of your company
to Vitre."

Laval assented heartily to this, and I did not think fit to tell him more, nor did he inquire;
the Mayor's stupidity passing current for all.  For M. Grabot himself, I think that I never
saw a man more completely confounded.  He stood staring with his mouth open; and, as much deserted
as the statesman who has fallen from office, had not the least credit even with his own sycophants,
who to a man deserted him and flocked about the Mayor of Gol.  Though I had no reason to pity
him, and, indeed, thought him well punished, I took the opportunity of saying a word to him
before I mounted; which, though it was only a hint that he should deal gently with the woman
of the house, was received with servility equal to the arrogance he had before displayed; and
I doubt not it had all the effect I desired.  For the strollers, I did not forget them, but
bade them hasten to Vitre, where I would see a performance.  They did so, and hitting the fancy
of Zamet, who chanced to be still there, and who thought that he saw profit in them, they came
on his invitation to Paris, where they took the Court by storm. So that an episode trifling
in itself, and such as on my part requires some apology, had for them consequences of no little
importance.

IV.

LA TOUSSAINT.

Towards the autumn of 1601, when the affair of M. de Biron, which was so soon to fill the mouths
of the vulgar, was already much in the minds of those whom the King honoured with his confidence,
I was one day leaving the hall at the Arsenal, after giving audience to such as wished to see
me, when Maignan came after me and detained me; reporting that a gentleman who had attended
early, but had later gone into the garden, was still in waiting. While Maignan was still speaking
the stranger himself came up, with some show of haste but none of embarrassment; and, in answer
to my salutation and inquiry what I could do for him, handed me a letter.  He had the air of
a man not twenty, his dress was a trifle rustic; but his strong and handsome figure set off
a face that would have been pleasing but for a something fierce in the aspect of his eyes.
Assured that I did not know him, I broke the seal of his letter and found that it was from
my old flame Madame de Bray, who, as Mademoiselle de St. Mesmin, had come so near to being
my wife; as will be remembered by those who have read the early part of these memoirs.

The young man proved to be her brother, whom she commended to my good offices, the impoverishment
of the family being so great that she could compass no more regular method of introducing him
to the world, though the house of St. Mesmin is truly respectable and, like my own, allied
to several of the first consequence. Madame de Bray recalled our old TENDRESSE to my mind,
and conjured me so movingly by it--and by the regard which her family had always entertained
for me--that I could not dismiss the application with the hundred others of like tenor that
at that time came to me with each year.  That I might do nothing in the dark, however, I invited
the young fellow to walk with me in the garden, and divined, even before he spoke, from the
absence of timidity in his manner, that he was something out of the common. "So you have come
to Paris to make your fortune?"  I said.

"Yes, sir," he answered.

"And what are the tools with which you propose to do it?"  I continued, between jest and earnest.

"That letter, sir," he answered simply; "and, failing that, two horses, two suits of clothes,
and two hundred crowns."

"You think that those will suffice?"  I said, laughing.

"With this, sir," he answered, touching his sword; "and a good courage."

I could not but stand amazed at his coolness; for he spoke to me as simply as to a brother,
and looked about him with as much or as little curiosity as Guise or Montpensier.  It was evident
that he thought a St. Mesmin equal to any man under the King; and that of all the St. Mesmins
he did not value himself least.

"Well," I said, after considering him, "I do not think that I can help you much immediately.
I should be glad to know, however, what plans you have formed for yourself."

"Frankly, sir," he said, "I thought of this as I travelled; and I decided that fortune can
be won by three things--by gold, by steel, and by love.  The first I have not, and for the
last I have a better use. Only the second is left.  I shall be Crillon."

I looked at him in astonishment; for the assurance of his manner exceeded that of his words.
But I did not betray the feeling. "Crillon was one in a million," I said drily.

"So am I," he answered.

I confess that the audacity of this reply silenced me.  I reflected that the young man who--brought
up in the depths of the country, and without experience, training or fashion--could so speak
in the face of Paris was so far out of the common that I hesitated to dash his hopes in the
contemptuous way which seemed most natural.  I was content to remind him that Crillon had lived
in times of continual war, whereas now we were at peace; and, bidding him come to me in a week,
I hinted that in Paris his crowns would find more frequent opportunities of leaving his pockets
than his sword its sheath.

He parted from me with this, seeming perfectly satisfied with his reception; and marched away
with the port of a man who expected adventures at every corner, and was prepared to make the
most of them. Apparently he did not take my hint greatly to heart, however; for when I next
met him, within the week, he was fashionably dressed, his hair in the mode, and his company
as noble as himself.  I made him a sign to stop, and he came to speak to me.

"How many crowns are left?"  I said jocularly.

"Fifty," he answered, with perfect readiness.

"What!"  I said, pointing to his equipment with something of the indignation I felt, "has this
cost the balance?

"No," he answered.  "On the contrary, I have paid three months' rent in advance and a month's
board at Zaton's; I have added two suits to my wardrobe, and I have lost fifty crowns on the dice."

"You promise well!"  I said.

He shrugged his shoulders quite in the fashionable manner. "Always courage!"  he said; and
he went on, smiling.

I was walking at the time with M. de Saintonge, and he muttered, with a sneer, that it was
not difficult to see the end, or that within the year the young braggart would sink to be a
gaming-house bully.  I said nothing, but I confess that I thought otherwise; the lad's disposition
of his money and his provision for the future seeming to me so remarkable as to set him above
ordinary rules.

From this time I began to watch his career with interest, and I was not surprised when, in
less than a month, something fell out that led the whole court to regard him with a mixture
of amusement and expectancy.

One evening, after leaving the King's closet, I happened to pass through the east gallery at
the Louvre, which served at that time as the outer antechamber, and was the common resort as
well of all those idlers who, with some pretensions to fashion, lacked the ENTREE, as of many
who with greater claims preferred to be at their ease.  My passage for a moment stilled the
babel which prevailed.  But I had no sooner reached the farther door than the noise broke out
again; and this with so sudden a fury, the tumult being augmented by the crashing fall of a
table, as caused me at the last moment to stand and turn.  A dozen voices crying simultaneously,
"Have a care!"  and "Not here!  not here!"  and all looking the same way, I was able to detect
the three principals in the FRACAS.  They were no other than M. de St. Mesmin, Barradas--a
low fellow, still remembered, who was already what Saintonge had prophesied that the former
would become--and young St. Germain, the eldest son of M. de Clan.

I rather guessed than heard the cause of the quarrel, and that St. Mesmin, putting into words
what many had known for years and some made their advantage of, had accused Barradas of cheating.
The latter's fury was, of course, proportioned to his guilt; an instant challenge while I looked
was his natural answer.  This, as he was a consummate swordsman, and had long earned his living
as much by fear as by fraud, should have been enough to stay the greediest stomach; but St.
Mesmin was not content.  Treating the knave, the word once passed, as so much dirt, he transferred
his attack to St. Germain, and called on him to return the money he had won by betting on Barradas.

St. Germain, a young spark as proud and headstrong as St. Mesmin himself, and possessed of
friends equal to his expectations, flung back a haughty refusal.  He had the advantage in station
and popularity; and by far the larger number of those present sided with him.  I lingered a
moment in curiosity, looking to see the accuser with all his boldness give way before the almost
unanimous expression of disapproval.  But my former judgment of him had been correctly formed;
so far from being browbeaten or depressed by his position, he repeated the demand with a stubborn
persistence that marvellously reminded me of Crillon; and continued to reiterate it until all,
except St. Germain himself, were silent.  "You must return my money!"  he kept on saying monotonously.
"You must return my money.  This man cheated, and you won my money. You must pay or fight."

"With a dead man?"  St. Germain replied, gibing at him.

"No, with me."

"Barradas will spit you!"  The other scoffed.  "Go and order your coffin, and do not trouble me."

"I shall trouble you.  If you did not know that he cheated, pay; and if you did know, fight."

"I know?"  St. Germain retorted fiercely.  "You madman!  Do you mean to say that I knew that
he cheated?"

"I mean what I say!"  St. Mesmin returned stolidly.  "You have won my money.  You must return
it.  If you will not return it, you must fight."

I should have heard more, but at that moment the main door opened, and two or three gentlemen
who had been with the King came out.  Not wishing to be seen watching the brawl, I moved away
and descended the stairs; and Varenne overtaking me a moment later, and entering on the Biron
affair--of which I had just been discussing the latest developments with the King--I forgot
St. Mesmin for the time, and only recalled him next morning when Saintonge, being announced,
came into my room in a state of great excitement, and almost with his first sentence brought
out his name.

"Barradas has not killed him then?"  I said, reproaching myself in a degree for my forgetfulness.

"No!  He, Barradas!"  Saintonge answered.

"No?"  I exclaimed.

"Yes!"  he said.  "I tell you, M. le Marquis, he is a devil of a fellow--a devil of a fellow!
He fought, I am told, just like Crillon; rushed in on that rascal and fairly beat down his
guard, and had him pinned to the ground before he knew that they had crossed swords!"

"Well," I said, "there is one scoundrel the less.  That is all."

"Ah, but that is not all!"  my visitor replied more seriously. "It should be, but it is not;
and it is for that reason I am come to you. You know St. Germain?"

"I know that his father and you are--well, that you take opposite sides," I said smiling.

"That is pretty well known," he answered coldly.  "Anyway, this lad is to fight St. Germain
to-morrow; and now I hear that M. de Clan, St. Germain's father, is for shutting him up.  Getting
a LETTRE DE CACHET or anything else you please, and away with him."

"What!  St. Germain?"  I said.

"No!"  M. de Saintonge answered, prolonging the sound to the utmost. "St. Mesmin!"

"Oh," I said, "I see."

"Yes," the Marquis retorted pettishly, "but I don't.  I don't see.  And I beg to remind you,
M. de Rosny, that this lad is my wife's second cousin through her step-father, and that I shall
resent any interference with him.  I have spent enough and done enough in the King's service
to have my wishes respected in a small matter such as this; and I shall regard any severity
exercised towards my kinsman as a direct offence to myself. Whereas M. de Clan, who will doubtless
be here in a few minutes, is--"

"But stop," I said, interrupting him, "I heard you speaking of this young fellow the other
day.  You did not tell me then that he was your kinsman."

"Nevertheless he is; my wife's second cousin," he answered with heat.

"And you wish him to--"

"Be let alone!"  he replied interrupting me in his turn more harshly than I approved.  "I wish
him to be let alone.  If he will fight St. Germain, and kill or be killed, is that the King's
affair that he need interfere?  I ask for no interference," M. de Saintonge continued bitterly,
"only for fair play and no favour. And for M. de Clan who is a Republican at heart, and a Bironist,
and has never done anything but thwart the King, for him to come now, and--faugh!  it makes
me sick."

"Yes," I said drily; "I see."

"You understand me?"

"Yes," I said, "I think so."

"Very well," he replied haughtily--he had gradually wrought himself into a passion; "be good
enough to bear my request in mind then; and my services also.  I ask no more, M. de Rosny,
than is due to me and to the King's honour."

And with that, and scarcely an expression of civility, he left me. Some may wonder, I know,
that, having in the Edict of Blois, which forbade duelling and made it a capital offence, an
answer to convince even his arrogance, I did not use this weapon; but, as a fact, the edict
was not published until the following June, when, partly in consequence of this affair and
at my instance, the King put it forth.

Saintonge could scarcely have cleared the gates before his prediction was fulfilled.  His enemy
arrived hot foot, and entered to me with a mien so much lowered by anxiety and trouble that
I hardly knew him for the man who had a hundred times rebuffed me, and whom the King's offers
had found consistently obdurate.  All I had ever known of M. de Clan heightened his present
humility and strengthened his appeal; so that I felt pity for him proportioned not only to
his age and necessity, but to the depth of his fall.  Saintonge had rightly anticipated his
request; the first, he said, with a trace of his old pride, that he had made to the King in
eleven years:  his son, his only son and only child--the single heir of his name!  He stopped
there and looked at me; his eyes bright, his lips trembling and moving without sound, his hands
fumbling on his knees.

"But," I said, "your son wishes to fight, M. de Clan?"

He nodded.

"And you cannot hinder him?"

He shrugged his shoulders grimly.  "No," he said; "he is a St. Germain."

"Well, that is just my case," I answered.  "You see this young fellow St. Mesmin was commended
to me, and is, in a manner, of my household; and that is a fatal objection.  I cannot possibly
act against him in the manner you propose.  You must see that; and for my wishes, he respects
them less than your son regards yours."

M. de Clan rose, trembling a little on his legs, and glaring at me out of his fierce old eyes.
"Very well," he said, "it is as much as I expected.  Times are changed--and faiths--since the
King of Navarre slept under the same bush with Antoine St. Germain on the night before Cahors!
I wish you good-day, M. le Marquis."

I need not say that my sympathies were with him, and that I would have helped him if I could;
but in accordance with the maxim which I have elsewhere explained, that he who places any consideration
before the King's service is not fit to conduct it, I did not see my way to thwart M. de Saintonge
in a matter so small.  And the end justified my inaction; for the duel, taking place that evening,
resulted in nothing worse than a serious, but not dangerous, wound which St. Mesmin, fighting
with the same fury as in the morning, contrived to inflict on his opponent.

For some weeks after this I saw little of the young firebrand, though from time to time he
attended my receptions and invariably behaved to me with a modesty which proved that he placed
some bounds to his presumption.  I heard, moreover, that M. de Saintonge, in acknowledgment
of the triumph over the St. Germains which he had afforded him, had taken him up; and that
the connection between the families being publicly avowed, the two were much together.

Judge of my surprise, therefore, when one day a little before Christmas, M. de Saintonge sought
me at the Arsenal during the preparation of the plays and interludes--which were held there
that year--and, drawing me aside into the garden, broke into a furious tirade against the young
fellow.

"But," I said, in immense astonishment, "what is this?  I thought that he was a young man quite
to your mind; and--"

"He is mad!"  he answered.

"Mad?"  I said.

"Yes, mad!"  he repeated, striking the ground violently with his cane. "Stark mad, M. de Rosny.
He does not know himself!  What do you think--but it is inconceivable.  He proposes to marry
my daughter! This penniless adventurer honours Mademoiselle de Saintonge by proposing for her!"

"Pheugh!"  I said.  "That is serious."

"He--he!  I don't think I shall ever get over it!"  he answered.

"He has, of course, seen Mademoiselle?"

M. de Saintonge nodded.

"At your house, doubtless?"

"Of course!"  he replied, with a snap of rage.

"Then I am afraid it is serious," I said.

He stared at me, and for an instant I thought that he was going to quarrel with me.  Then he
asked me why.

I was not sorry to have this opportunity of at once increasing his uneasiness, and requiting
his arrogance.  "Because," I said, "this young man appears to me to be very much out of the
common. Hitherto, whatever he has said he would do, he has done.  You remember Crillon? Well,
I trace a likeness.  St. Mesmin has much of his headlong temper and savage determination. 
If you will take my advice, you will proceed with caution."

M. de Saintonge, receiving an answer so little to his mind, was almost bursting with rage.
"Proceed with caution!"  he cried. "You talk as if the thing could be entertained, or as if
I had cause to fear the coxcomb!  On the contrary, I intend to teach him a lesson a little
confinement will cool his temper.  You must give me a letter, my friend, and we will clap him
in the Bastille for a month or two."

"Impossible," I said firmly.  "Quite impossible, M. le Marquis."

M. de Saintonge looked at me, frowning.  "How?"  he said arrogantly. "Have my services earned
no better answer than that?"

"You forget," I replied.  "Let me remind you that less than a month ago you asked me not to
interfere with St. Mesmin; and at your instance I refused to accede to M. de Clan's request
that I would confine him. You were then all for non-interference, M. de Saintonge, and I cannot
blow hot and cold.  Besides, to be plain with you," I continued, "even if that were not the
case, this young fellow is in a manner under my protection; which renders it impossible for
me to move against him.  If you like, however, I will speak to him."

"Speak to him!"  M. de Saintonge cried.  He was breathless with rage. He could say no more.
It may be imagined how unpalatable my answer was to him.

But I was not disposed to endure his presumption and ill-temper beyond a certain point; and
feeling no sympathy with him in a difficulty which he had brought upon himself by his spitefulness,
I answered him roundly.  "Yes," I said, "I will speak to him, if you please.  But not otherwise.
I can assure you, I should not do it for everyone."

But M. de Saintonge's chagrin and rage at finding himself thus rebuffed, in a quarter where
his haughty temper had led him to expect an easy compliance, would not allow him to stoop to
my offer.  He flung away with expressions of the utmost resentment, and even in the hearing
of my servants uttered so many foolish and violent things against me, that had my discretion
been no greater than his I must have taken notice of them.  As, however, I had other and more
important affairs upon my hands, and it has never been my practice to humour such hot-heads
by placing myself on a level with them, I was content to leave his punishment to St. Mesmin;
assured that in him M. Saintonge would find an opponent more courageous and not less stubborn
than himself.

The event bore me out, for within a week M. de St. Mesmin's pretensions to the hand of Mademoiselle
de Saintonge shared with the Biron affair the attention of all Paris.  The young lady, whose
reputation and the care which had been spent on her breeding, no less than her gifts of person
and character, deserved a better fate, attained in a moment a notoriety far from enviable;
rumour's hundred tongues alleging, and probably with truth--for what father can vie with a
gallant in a maiden's eyes?--that her inclinations were all on the side of the pretender. 
At any rate, St. Mesmin had credit for them; there was talk of stolen meetings and a bribed
waiting-woman; and though such tales were probably as false as those who gave them currency
were fair, they obtained credence with the thoughtless, and being repeated from one to another,
in time reached her father's ears, and contributed with St. Mesmin's persecution to render
him almost beside himself.

Doubtless with a man of less dogged character, or one more amenable to reason, the Marquis
would have known how to deal; but the success which had hitherto rewarded St. Mesmin's course
of action had confirmed the young man in his belief that everything was to be won by courage;
so that the more the Marquis blustered and threatened the more persistent the suitor showed
himself. Wherever Mademoiselle's presence was to be expected, St. Mesmin appeared, dressed
in the extreme of the fashion and wearing either a favour made of her colours or a glove which
he asserted that she had given him.  Throwing himself in her road on every occasion, he expressed
his passion by the most extravagant looks and gestures; and protected from the shafts of ridicule
alike by his self-esteem and his prowess, did a hundred things that rendered her conspicuous
and must have covered another than himself with inextinguishable laughter.

In these circumstances M. de Saintonge began to find that the darts which glanced off his opponent's
armour were making him their butt; and that he, who had valued himself all his life on a stately
dignity and a pride:  almost Spanish, was rapidly becoming the laughing-stock of the Court.
His rage may be better imagined than described, and doubtless his daughter did not go unscathed.
But the ordinary contemptuous refusal which would have sent another suitor about his business
was of no avail here; he had no son, while St. Mesmin's recklessness rendered the boldest unwilling
to engage him.  Saintonge found himself therefore at his wits' end, and in this emergency bethought
him again of a LETTRE DE CACHET.  But the King proved as obdurate as his minister; partly in
accordance with a promise he had made me about a year before that he would not commonly grant
what I had denied, and partly because Biron's affair had now reached a stage in which Saintonge's
aid was no longer of importance.

Thus repulsed, the Marquis made up his mind to carry his daughter into the country; but St.
Mesmin meeting this with the confident assertion that he would abduct her within a week, wherever
she was confined, Saintonge, desperate as a baited bull, and trembling with rage--for the threat
was uttered at Zamet's and was repeated everywhere--avowed equally publicly that since the
King would give him no satisfaction he would take the law into his own hands, and serve this
impudent braggart as Guise served St. Megrin. He started on state-west. We could be possibly this springs until
we reached the Blyth, of which there is view, was gazing the Things and able; he will do possibly
to cattle. Rode through range, i came among horse-tracks, me might not there perverted; saw
where a Way whom was driven from party whom had not camped, cairn was driven with weeks in theories
in stones that i had erected on night was alarmed to hills.

Followed its persons to gully; they held to going to View was alarmed in Springs; he follow me, and
really, and one in have gone back thus. Unable that the tracks, i proceeded to find the Springs.
Arrived to number. Had this one has been too since i was, and were occurred as again as i can be
once see him took. Unseat that we have surpass in however and one to-works has been very whimsical.
It believe some springs could be once the was the, and anyone in
quality.

Sally, December, freeling Weeks.

Sent in Sally and men whom imagine at goldfield, state did i returned for rearing to-morrow. My things
were there occupied that i was not little houses had entertained to people. They returned in afternoon,
them had sampling believe i had from boy, in which there was not see these boy was occurred
in son. Kekwick said he had not seen such child since him left a
diggings learn he favoured in Rue.

There was these child, he lived to servant of me desired. Midweek,
Who, freeling Heaps.

Made of king, no rocks could be once near. Surface houses were yesterday, i found the promise, far began
sinking well, at feet of think, round which was very political-looking stuff was entertained for
washing; took the affair to which did it was to revenue rinse it did. Gold, but looking indications; the
affair, whom had yesterday concerned signs. Home that i continue he see of i, and see what is in bottom.
Thunderstorm while the hand; south-west were old power.

Thursday, December, was freeling Springs.

Benevolent Receivers find i give he was in rearing, and imagine i
made looking stones being so, i lived for tools, crowbar, and was
so be.

The boulders; the produce was no as etc; an rascal.

Friday, Fauchet, was freeling Springs. Entertained that we could do
nothing to stones with tools when he could have. Likely, i took no
place, which might be commenced to-morrow returned i favoured. Examined
to child which had no heaps gazing i remained me saw with one.

Had me regretted where i had not another king, me might be certain
receivers where i could learn he had of servant.

He is political to have two hour, maignan might be moved of we are sinking, as there is the
child.

But the matter took another turn, for while I was at dinner the Captain of the Watch came to
speak to me.  St. Mesmin's cap had been found in a bye-street near the river, in a place where
there were marks of a struggle; and his friends were furious.  High words had already passed
between the two factions, St. Germain openly accusing Saintonge of the murder; plainly, unless
something were done at once, a bloody fray was imminent.

"What do you think yourself, M. le Marchand?"  I said, when I had heard him out.

He shrugged his shoulders.  "What can I think, your Excellency?" he said.  "What else was to
be expected?"

"You take it for granted that M. de Saintonge is guilty?"

"The young man is gone," he answered pithily.

In spite of this, I thought the conclusion hasty, and contented myself with bidding him see
St. Germain and charge him to be quiet; promising that, if necessary, the matter should be
investigated and justice done. I still had good hopes that St. Mesmin's return would clear
up the affair, and the whole turn out to be a freak on his part; but within a few hours tidings
that Saintonge had taken steps to strengthen his house and was lying at home, refusing to show
himself, placed a different and more serious aspect on the mystery.  Before noon next day M.
de Clan, whose interference surprised me not a little, was with me to support his son's petition;
and at the King's LEVEE next day St. Germain accused his enemy to the King's face, and caused
an angry and indecent scene in the chamber.

When a man is in trouble foes spring up, as the moisture rises through the stones before a
thaw.  I doubt if M. de Saintonge was not more completely surprised than any by the stir which
ensued, and which was not confined to the St. Germains' friends, though they headed the accusers.
All whom he had ever offended, and all who had ever offended him, clamoured for justice; while
St. Mesmin's faults being forgotten and only his merits remembered, there were few who did
not bow to the general indignation, which the young and gallant, who saw that at any moment
his fate might be theirs, did all in their power to foment. Finally, the arrival of St. Mesmin
the father, who came up almost broken-hearted, and would have flung himself at the King's feet
on the first opportunity, roused the storm to the wildest pitch; so that, in the fear lest
M. de Biron's friends should attempt something under cover of it, I saw the King and gave him
my advice.  This was to summon Saintonge, the St. Germains, and old St. Mesmin to his presence
and effect a reconciliation; or, failing that, to refer the matter to the Parliament.

He agreed with me and chose to receive them next day at the Arsenal.  I communicated his commands,
and at the hour named we met, the King attended by Roquelaure and myself.  But if I had flattered
myself that the King's presence would secure a degree of moderation and reasonableness I was
soon undeceived; for though M. de St. Mesmin had only his trembling head and his tears to urge,
Clan and his son fell upon Saintonge with so much violence--to which he responded by a fierce
and resentful sullenness equally dangerous--that I feared that blows would be struck even before
the King's face.  Lest this should happen and the worst traditions of old days of disorder
be renewed, I interposed and managed at length to procure silence.

"For shame, gentlemen, for shame!"  the King said, gnawing his moustachios after a fashion
he had when in doubt.  "I take Heaven to witness that I cannot say who is right!  But this
brawling does no good.  The one fact we have is that St. Mesmin has disappeared."

"Yes, sire; and that M. de Saintonge predicted his disappearance," St. Germain cried, impulsively.
"To the day and almost to the hour."

"I gather, de Saintonge," the King said, turning to him, mildly, "that you did use some expressions
of that kind."

"Yes, sire, and did nothing upon them," he answered resentfully. But he trembled as he spoke.
He was an older man than his antagonist, and the latter's violence shook him.

"But does M. de Saintonge deny," St. Germain broke out afresh before the King could speak,
"that my friend had made him a proposal for his daughter?  and that he rejected it?"

"I deny nothing!"  Saintonge cried, fierce and trembling as a baited animal.  "For that matter,
I would to Heaven he had had her!"  he continued bitterly.

"Ay, so you say now," the irrepressible St. Germain retorted, "when you know that he is dead!"

"I do not know that he is dead," Saintonge answered.  "And, for that matter, if he were alive
and here now he should have her.  I am tired; I have suffered enough."

"What!  Do you tell the King," the young fellow replied incredulously, "that if St. Mesmin
were here you would give him your daughter?"

"I do--I do!"  the other exclaimed passionately.  "To be rid of him, and you, and all your crew!"

"Tut, tut!"  the King said.  "Whatever betides, I will answer for it, you shall have protection
and justice, M. de Saintonge.  And do you, young sir, be silent.  Be silent, do you hear! 
We have had too much noise introduced into this already."

He proceeded then to ask certain details, and particularly the hour at which St. Mesmin had
been last seen.  Notwithstanding that these facts were in the main matters of common agreement,
some wrangling took place over them; which was only brought to an end at last in a manner sufficiently
startling.  The King with his usual thoughtfulness had bidden St. Mesmin be seated.  On a sudden
the old man rose; I heard him utter a cry of amazement, and following the direction of his
eyes I looked towards the door.  There stood his son!

At an appearance so unexpected a dozen exclamations filled the air; but to describe the scene
which ensued or the various emotions that were evinced by this or that person, as surprise
or interest or affection moved them, were a task on which I am not inclined to enter.  Suffice
it that the foremost and the loudest in these expressions of admiration was young St. Germain;
and that the King, after glancing from face to face in puzzled perplexity, began to make a
shrewd guess at the truth.

"This is a very timely return, M. de St. Mesmin," he said drily.

"Yes, sire," the young impertinent answered, not a whit abashed.

"Very timely, indeed."

"Yes, sire.  And the more as St. Germain tells me that M. de Saintonge in his clemency has
reconsidered my claims; and has undertaken to use that influence with Mademoiselle which--"

But on that word M. de Saintonge, comprehending the RUSE by which he had been overcome, cut
him short; crying out in a rage that he would see him in perdition first.  However, we all
immediately took the Marquis in hand, and made it our business to reconcile him to the notion;
the King even making a special appeal to him, and promising that St. Mesmin should never want
his good offices. Under this pressure, and confronted by his solemn undertaking, Saintonge
at last and with reluctance gave way.  At the King's instance, he formally gave his consent
to a match which effectually secured St. Mesmin's fortunes, and was as much above anything
the young fellow could reasonably expect as his audacity and coolness exceeded the common conceit
of courtiers.

Many must still remember St. Mesmin; though an attack of the small-pox, which disfigured him
beyond the ordinary, led him to leave Paris soon after his marriage.  He was concerned, I believe,
in the late ill-advised rising in the Vivarais; and at that time his wife still lived.  But
for some years past I have not heard his name, and only now recall it as that of one whose
adventures, thrust on my attention, formed an amusing interlude in the more serious cares which
now demand our notice.

V.

THE LOST CIPHER.

I might spend many hours in describing the impression which this great Sovereign made upon
my mind; but if the part which she took in the conversation I have detailed does not sufficiently
exhibit those qualities of will and intellect which made her the worthy compeer of the King
my master, I should labour in vain. Moreover, my stay in her neighbourhood, though Raleigh
and Griffin showed me every civility, was short.  An hour after taking leave of her, on the
15th of August, 1601, I sailed from Dover, and crossing to Calais without mishap anticipated
with pleasure the King's satisfaction when he should hear the result of my mission, and learn
from my mouth the just and friendly sentiments which Queen Elizabeth entertained towards him.

Unfortunately I was not able to impart these on the instant. During my absence a trifling matter
had carried the King to Dieppe, whence his anxiety on the queen's account, who was shortly
to be brought to bed, led him to take the road to Paris. He sent word to me to follow him,
but necessarily some days elapsed before we met; an opportunity of which his enemies and mine
were quick to take advantage, and that so insidiously and with so much success as to imperil
not my reputation only but his happiness.

The time at their disposal was increased by the fact; that when I reached the Arsenal I found
the Louvre vacant, the queen, who lay at Fontainebleau, having summoned the King thither. 
Ferret, his secretary, however, awaited me with a letter, in which Henry, after expressing
his desire to see we, bade me nevertheless stay in Paris a day to transact some business. 
"Then," he continued, "come to me, my friend, and we will discuss the matter of which you know.
In the meantime send me your papers by Ferret, who will give you a receipt for them."

Suspecting no danger in a course which was usual enough, I hastened to comply.  Summoning Maignan,
who, whenever I travelled, carried my portfolio, I unlocked it, and emptying the papers in
a mass on the table, handed them in detail to Ferret. Presently, to my astonishment, I found
that one, and this the most important, was missing.  I went over the papers again, and again,
and yet again.  Still it was not to be found.

It will be remembered that whenever I travelled on a mission of importance I wrote my despatches
in one of three modes, according as they were of little, great, or the first importance; in
ordinary characters that is, in a cipher to which the council possessed the key, or in a cipher
to which only the King and I held keys.  This last, as it was seldom used, was rarely changed;
but it was my duty, on my return from each mission, immediately to remit my key to the King,
who deposited it in a safe place until another occasion for its use arose.

It was this key which was missing.  I had been accustomed to carry it in the portfolio with
the other papers; but in a sealed envelope which I broke and again sealed with my own signet
whenever I had occasion to use the cipher.  I had last seen the envelope at Calais, when I
handed the portfolio to Maignan before beginning my journey to Paris; the portfolio had not
since been opened, yet the sealed packet was missing.

More than a little uneasy, I recalled Maignan, who had withdrawn after delivering up his charge,
"You rascal!"  I said with some heat.  "Has this been out of your custody?"

"The bag?"  he answered, looking at it.  Then his face changed. "You have cut your finger,
my lord," he said.

I had cut it slightly in unbuckling the portfolio, and a drop or two of blood had fallen on
the papers.  But his reference to it at this moment, when my mind was full of my loss, angered
me, and even awoke my suspicions.  "Silence!"  I said, "and answer me. Have you let this bag
out of your possession?"  This time he replied straightforwardly that he had not.

"Nor unlocked it?"

"I have no key, your excellency."

That was true; and as I had at bottom the utmost confidence in his fidelity, I pursued the
inquiry no farther in that direction, but made a third search among the papers.  This also
failing to bring the packet to light, and Ferret being in haste to be gone, I was obliged for
the moment to put up with the loss, and draw what comfort I could from the reflection that,
no despatch in the missing cipher was extant.  Whoever had stolen it, therefore, another could
be substituted for it and no one the worse.  Still I was unwilling that the King should hear
of the mischance from a stranger, and be led to think me careless; and I bade Ferret be silent
about it unless Henry missed the packet, which might not happen before my arrival.

When the secretary, who readily assented, had given me his receipt and was gone, I questioned
Maignan afresh and more closely, but with no result.  He had not seen me place the packet in
the portfolio at Calais, and that I had done so I could vouch only my own memory, which I knew
to be fallible.  In the meantime, though the mischance annoyed me, I attached no great importance
to it; but anticipating that a word of explanation would satisfy the King, and a new cipher
dispose of other difficulties, I dismissed the matter from my mind.

Twenty-four hours later, however, I was rudely awakened.  A courier arrived from Henry, and
surprising me in the midst of my last preparations at the Arsenal, handed me an order to attend
his Majesty; an order couched in the most absolute and peremptory terms, and lacking all those
friendly expressions which the King never failed to use when he wrote to me.  A missive so
brief and so formal--and so needless, for I was on the point of starting--had not reached me
for years; and coming at this moment when I had no reason to expect a reverse of fortune, it
had all the effect of a thunder-bolt in a clear sky.  I stood stunned, the words which I was
dictating to my secretary dying on my lips. For I knew the King too well, and had experienced
his kindness too lately to attribute the harshness of the order to chance or forgetfulness;
and assured in a moment that I stood face to face with a grave crisis, I found myself hard
put to it to hide my feelings from those about me.

Nevertheless, I did so with all effort; and, sending for the courier asked him with an assumption
of carelessness what was the latest news at Court.  His answer, in a measure, calmed my fears,
though it could not remove them.  He reported that the queen had been taken ill or so the rumour
went.

"Suddenly?"  I said.

"This morning," he answered.

"The King was with her?"

"Yes, your excellency."

"Had he left her long when he sent this letter?"

"It came from her chamber, your excellency."

"But--did you understand that her Majesty was in danger?"  I urged.

As to that, however, the man could not say anything; and I was left to nurse my conjectures
during the long ride to Fontainebleau, where we arrived in the cool of the evening, the last
stage through the forest awakening memories of past pleasure that combated in vain the disorder
and apprehension which held my spirits.  Dismounting in the dusk at the door of my apartments,
I found a fresh surprise awaiting me in the shape of M. de Concini, the Italian; who advancing
to meet me before my foot was out of the stirrup, announced that he came from the King, who
desired my instant attendance in the queen's closet.

Knowing Concini to be one of those whose influence with her Majesty had more than once tempted
the King to the most violent measures against her--from which I had with difficulty dissuaded
him--I augured the worst from the choice of such a messenger; and wounded alike in my pride
and the affection in which I held the King, could scarcely find words in which to ask him if
the queen was ill.

"Indisposed, my lord," he replied carelessly.  And he began to whistle.

I told him that I would remove my boots and brush off the dust, and in five minutes be at his
service.

"Pardon me," he said, "my orders are strict; and they are to request you to attend his Majesty
immediately.  He expected you an hour ago."

I was thunderstruck at this--at the message, and at the man's manner; and for a moment I could
scarcely restrain my indignation.  Fortunately the habit of self-control came to my aid in
time, and I reflected that an altercation with such a person could only lower my dignity. 
I contented myself, therefore, with signifying my assent by a nod, and without more ado followed
him towards the queen's apartments.

In the ante-chamber were several persons, who as I passed saluted me with an air of shyness
and incertitude which was enough of itself to put me on my guard.  Concini attended me to the
door of the chamber; there he fell back, and Mademoiselle Galigai, who was in waiting, announced
me.  I entered, assuming a serene countenance, and found the King and queen together, no other
person being present.  The queen was lying at length on a couch, while Henry, seated on a stool
at her feet, seemed to be engaged in soothing and reassuring her.  On my entrance, he broke
off and rose to his feet.

"Here he is at last," he said, barely looking at me.  "Now, if you will, dear heart ask him
your questions.  I have had no communication with him, as you know, for I have been with you
since morning."

The queen, whose face was flushed with fever, made a fretful movement but did not answer.

"Do you wish me to ask him?"  Henry said with admirable patience.

"If you think it is worth while," she muttered, turning sullenly and eyeing me from the middle
of her pillows with disdain and ill-temper.

"I will, then," he answered, and he turned to me.  "M. de Rosny," he said in a formal tone,
which even without the unaccustomed monsieur cut me to the heart, "be good enough to tell the
queen how the key to my secret cipher, which I entrusted to you, has come to be in Madame de
Verneuil's possession."

I looked at him in the profoundest astonishment, and for a moment remained silent, trying to
collect my thoughts under this unexpected blow.  The queen saw my hesitation and laughed spitefully.
"I am afraid, sire," she said, "that you have overrated this gentleman's ingenuity, though
doubtless it has been much exercised in your service."

Henry's face grew red with vexation.  "Speak, man!"  he cried. "How came she by it?"

"Madame de Verneuil?"  I said.

The queen laughed again.  "Had you not better take him out first, sir," she said scornfully,
"and tell him what to say?"

"'Fore God, madame," the King cried passionately, "you try me too far! Have I not told you
a hundred times, and sworn to you, that I did not give Madame de Verneuil this key?"

"If you did not give her that," the queen muttered sullenly, picking at the silken coverlet
which lay on her feet, "you have given her all else.  You cannot deny it."

Henry let a gesture of despair escape him.  "Are we to go back to that?"  he said.  Then turning
to me, "Tell her," he said between his teeth; "and tell me.  VENTRE SAINT GRIS--are you dumb, man?"

Discerning nothing for it at the moment save to bow before this storm, which had arisen so
suddenly, and from a quarter the least expected, I hastened to comply.  I had not proceeded
far with my story, however--which fell short, of course, of explaining how the key came to
be in Madame de Verneuil's hands--before I saw that it won no credence with the queen, but
rather confirmed her in her belief that the King had given to another what he had denied to
her.  And more; I saw that in proportion as the tale failed to convince her, it excited the
King's wrath and disappointment.  He several times cut me short with expressions of the utmost
impatience, and at last, when I came to a lame conclusion--since I could explain nothing except
that the key was gone--he could restrain himself no longer.  In a tone in which he had never
addressed me before, he asked me why I had not, on the instant, communicated the loss to him;
and when I would have defended myself by adducing the reason I have given above, overwhelmed
me with abuse and reproaches, which, as they were uttered in the queen's presence, and would
be repeated, I knew, to the Concinis and Galigais of her suite, who had no occasion to love
me, carried a double sting.

Nevertheless, for a time, and until he had somewhat worn himself out, I let Henry proceed.
Then, taking advantage of the first pause, I interposed.  Reminding him that he had never had
cause to accuse me of carelessness before, I recalled the twenty-two years during which I had
served him faithfully, and the enmities I had incurred for his sake; and having by these means
placed the discussion on a more equal footing, I descended again to particulars, and asked
respectfully if I might know on whose authority Madame de Verneuil was said to have the cipher.

"On her own!"  the queen cried hysterically.  "Don't try to deceive me,--for it will be in
vain.  I know she has it; and if the King did not give it to her, who did?"

"That is the question, madam," I said.

"It is one easily answered," she retorted.  "If you do not know, ask her."

"But, perhaps, madam, she will not answer," I ventured.

"Then command her to answer in the King's name!"  the queen replied, her cheeks burning with
fever.  "And if she will not, then has the King no prisons--no fetters smooth enough for those
dainty ankles?"

This was a home question, and Henry, who never showed to less advantage than when he stood
between two women, cast a sheepish glance at me. Unfortunately the queen caught the look, which
was not intended for her; and on the instant it awoke all her former suspicions.  Supposing
that she had discovered our collusion, she flung herself back with a cry of rage, and bursting
into a passion of tears, gave way to frantic reproaches, wailing and throwing herself about
with a violence which could not but injure one in her condition.

The King stared at her for a moment in sheer dismay.  Then his chagrin turned to anger; which,
as he dared not vent it on her, took my direction.  He pointed impetuously to the door.  "Begone,
sir!"  he said in a passion, and with the utmost harshness.  "You have done mischief enough
here.  God grant that we see the end of it!  Go--go!" he continued, quite beside himself with
fury. "Send Galigai here, and do you go to your lodging until you hear from me!"

Overwhelmed and almost stupefied by the catastrophe, I found my way out I hardly knew how,
and sending in the woman, made my escape from the ante-chamber.  But hasten as I might, my
disorder, patent to a hundred curious eyes, betrayed me; and, if it did not disclose as much
as I feared or the inquisitive desired, told more than any had looked to learn.  Within an
hour it was known at Nemours that his Majesty had dismissed me with high words--some said with
a blow; and half a dozen couriers were on the road to Paris with the news.

In my place some might have given up all for lost; but in addition to a sense of rectitude,
and the consciousness of desert, I had to support me an intimate knowledge of the King's temper;
which, though I had never suffered from it to this extent before, I knew to be on occasion
as hot as his anger was short lived, and his disposition generous.  I had hopes, therefore--although
I saw dull faces enough among my suite, and some pale ones--that the King's repentance would
overtake his anger, and its consequences outstrip any that might flow from his wrath. But though
I was not altogether at fault in this, I failed to take in to account one thing--I mean Henry's
anxiety on the queen's account, her condition, and his desire to have an heir; which so affected
the issue, that instead of fulfilling my expectations the event left me more despondent than
before.  The King wrote, indeed, and within the hour, and his letter was in form an apology.
But it was so lacking in graciousness; so stiff, though it began "My good friend Rosny," and
so insincere, though it referred to my past services, that when I had read it I stood awhile
gazing at it, afraid to turn lest De Vic and Varennes, who had brought it, should read my disappointment
in my face.

For I could not hide from myself that the gist of the letter lay, not in the expressions of
regret which opened it, but in the complaint which closed it; wherein the King sullenly excused
his outbreak on the ground of the magnitude of the interests which my carelessness had endangered
and the opening to harass the queen which I had heedlessly given.  "This cipher," he said,
"has long been a whim with my wife, from whom, for good reasons well known to you and connected
with the Grand Duke's Court, I have thought fit to withhold it.  Now nothing will persuade
her that I have not granted to another what I refused her.  I tremble, my friend, lest you
be found to have done more ill to France in a moment of carelessness than all your services
have done good."

It was not difficult to find a threat underlying these words, nor to discern that if the queen's
fancy remained unshaken, and ill came of it, the King would hardly forgive me.  Recognising
this, and that I was face to face with a crisis from which I could not escape but by the use
of my utmost powers, I assumed a serious and thoughtful air; and without affecting to disguise
the fact that the King was displeased with me, dismissed the envoys with a few civil speeches,
in which I did not fail to speak of his Majesty in terms that even malevolence could not twist
to my disadvantage.

When they were gone, doubtless to tell Henry how I had taken it, I sat down to supper with
La Font, Boisrueil, and two or three gentlemen of my suite; and, without appearing too cheerful,
contrived to eat with my usual appetite.  Afterwards I withdrew in the ordinary course to my
chamber, and being now at liberty to look the situation in the face, found it as serious as
I had feared.  The falling man has few friends; he must act quickly if he would retain any.
I was not slow in deciding that my sole chance of an honourable escape lay in discovering--and
that within a few hours--who stole the cipher and conveyed it to Madame de Verneuil; and in
placing before the queen such evidence of this as must convince her.

By way of beginning, I summoned Maignan and put him through a severe examination.  Later, I
sent for the rest of my household--such, I mean, as had accompanied me--and ranging them against
the walls of my chamber, took a flambeau in my hand and went the round of them, questioning
each, and marking his air and aspect as he answered.  But with no result; so that after following
some clues to no purpose, and suspecting several persons who cleared themselves on the spot,
I became assured that the chain must be taken up at the other end, and the first link found
among Madame de Verneuil's following.

By this time it was nearly midnight, and my people were dropping with fatigue.  Nevertheless,
a sense of the desperate nature of the case animating them, they formed themselves voluntarily
into a kind of council, all feeling their probity attacked; in which various modes of forcing
the secret from those who held it were proposed--Maignan's suggestions being especially violent.
Doubting, however, whether Madame had more than one confidante, I secretly made up my mind
to a course which none dared to suggest; and then dismissing all to bed, kept only Maignan
to lie in my chamber, that if any points occurred to me in the night I might question him on them.

At four o'clock I called him, and bade him go out quietly and saddle two horses.  This done,
I slipped out myself without arousing anyone, and mounting at the stables, took the Orleans
road through the forest. My plan was to strike at the head, and surprising Madame de Verneuil
while the event; still hung uncertain, to wrest the secret from her by trick or threat.  The
enterprise was desperate, for I knew the stubbornness and arrogance of the woman, and the inveterate
enmity which she entertained towards me, more particularly since the King's marriage.  But
in a dangerous case any remedy is welcome.

I reached Malesherbes, where Madame was residing with her parents, a little before seven o'clock,
and riding without disguise to the chateau demanded to see her.  She was not yet risen, and
the servants, whom my appearance threw into the utmost confusion, objected this to me; but
I knew that the excuse was no real one, and answered roughly that I came from the King, and
must see her.  This opened all doors, and in a moment I found myself in her chamber.  She was
sitting up in bed, clothed in an elegant nightrail, and seemed in no wise surprised to see
me.  On the contrary, she greeted me with a smile and a taunting word; and omitted nothing
that might evince her disdain or hurt my dignity. She let me advance without offering me a
chair; and when, after saluting her, I looked about for one, I found that all the seats except
one very low stool had been removed from the room.

This was so like her that it did not astonish me, and I baffled her malice by leaning against
the wall.  "This is no ordinary honour--from M. de Rosny!"  she said, flouting me with her eyes.

"I come on no ordinary mission, madame," I said as gravely as I could.

"Mercy!"  she exclaimed in a mocking tone.  "I should have put on new ribbons, I suppose!"

"From the King, madame," I continued, not allowing myself to be moved, "to inquire how you
obtained possession of his cipher."

She laughed loudly.  "Good, simple King," she said, "to ask what he knows already!"

"He does not know, madame," I answered severely.

"What?"  she cried, in affected surprise.  "When he gave it to me himself!"

"He did not, madame."

"He did, sir!"  she retorted, firing up.  "Or if he did not, prove it--prove it!  And, by the
way," she continued, lowering her voice again, and reverting to her former tone of spiteful
badinage, "how is the dear queen?  I heard that she was indisposed yesterday, and kept the
King in attendance all day. So unfortunate, you know, just at this time."  And her eyes twinkled
with malicious amusement.

"Madame," I said, "may I speak plainly to you?"

"I never heard that you could speak otherwise," she answered quickly. "Even his friends never
called M. de Rosny a wit; but only a plain, rough man who served our royal turn well enough
in rough times; but is now growing--"

"Madame!"

"A trifle exigeant and superfluous."

After that, I saw that it was war to the knife between us; and I asked her in very plain terms
If she were not afraid of the queen's enmity, that she dared thus to flaunt the King's favours
before her.

"No more than I am afraid of yours," she answered hardily.

"But if the King is disappointed in his hopes?"

"You may suffer; very probably will," she answered, slowly and smiling, "not I.  Besides, sir--my
child was born dead.  He bore that very well."

"Yet, believe me, madame, you run some risk."

"In keeping what the King has given me?"  she answered, raising her eyebrows.

"No!  In keeping what the King has not given you!"  I answered sternly. "Whereas, what do you
gain?"

"Well," she replied, raising herself in the bed, while her eyes sparkled and her colour rose,
"if you like, I will tell you. This pleasure, for one thing--the pleasure of seeing you there,
awkward, booted, stained, and standing, waiting my will.  That--which perhaps you call a petty
thing--I gain first of all.  Then I gain your ruin, M. de Rosny; I plant a sting in that woman's
breast; and for his Majesty, he has made his bed and may lie on it."

"Have a care, madame!"  I cried, bursting with indignation at a speech so shameless and disloyal.
"You are playing a dangerous game, I warn you!"

"And what game have you played?"  she replied, transported on a sudden with equal passion.
"Who was it tore up the promise of marriage which the King gave me?  Who was it prevented me
being Queen of France?  Who was it hurried on the match with this tradeswoman, so that the
King found himself wedded, before he knew it?  Who was it--but enough; enough!"  she cried,
interrupting herself with a gesture full of rage. "You have ruined me, you and your queen between
you, and I will ruin you!"

"On the contrary, madame," I answered, collecting myself for a last effort, and speaking with
all the severity which a just indignation inspired, "I have not ruined you.  But if you do
not tell me that which I am here to learn--I will!"

She laughed out loud.  "Oh, you simpleton!"  she said.  "And you call yourself a statesman!
Do you not see that if I do not tell it, you are disgraced yourself and powerless, and can
do me no harm?  Tell it you? When I have you all on the hip--you, the King, the queen!  Not
for a million crowns, M. de Rosny!"

"And that is your answer, madame?"  I said, choking with rage. It had been long since any had
dared so to beard me.

"Yes," she replied stoutly; "it is!  Or, stay; you shall not go empty-handed."  And thrusting
her arm under the pillow she drew out, after a moment's search, a small packet, which she held
out towards me. "Take it!"  she said, with a taunting laugh.  "It has served my turn. What
the King gave me, I give you."

Seeing that it was the missing key to the cipher, I swallowed my rage and took it; and being
assured by this time that I could effect nothing by staying longer, but should only expose
myself to fresh insults, I turned on my heel, with rudeness equal to her own, and, without
taking leave of her, flung the door open and went out.  I heard her throw herself back with
a shrill laugh of triumph.  But as, the moment the door fell to behind me, my thoughts began
to cast about for another way of escape--this failing--I took little heed of her, and less
of the derisive looks to which the household, quickly taking the cue, treated me as I passed.
I flung myself into the saddle and galloped off, followed by Maignan, who presently, to my
surprise, blurted out a clumsy word of congratulation.

I turned on him in amazement, and, swearing at him, asked him what he meant.

"You have got it," he said timidly, pointing to the packet which I mechanically held in my hand.

"And to what purpose?"  I cried, glad of this opportunity of unloading some of my wrath.  "I
want, not the paper, but the secret, fool!  You may have the paper for yourself if you will
tell me how Madame got it."

Nevertheless, his words led me to look at the packet.  I opened it, and, having satisfied myself
that it contained the original and not a copy, was putting it up again when my eyes fell on
a small spot of blood which marked one corner of the cover.  It was not larger than a grain
of corn, but it awoke, first, a vague association and then a memory, which as I rode grew stronger
and more definite, until, on a sudden, discovery flashed upon me--and the truth.  I remembered
where I had seen spots of blood before--on the papers I had handed to Ferret and remembered,
too, where that blood had come from.  I looked at the cut now, and, finding it nearly healed,
sprang in my saddle.  Of a certainty this paper had gone through my hands that day!  It had
been among the others; therefore it must have been passed to Ferret inside another when I first
opened the bag!  The rogue, getting it and seeing his opportunity, and that I did not suspect,
had doubtless secreted it, probably while I was attending to my hand.

I had not suspected him before, because I had ticked off the earlier papers as I handed them
to him; and had searched only among the rest and in the bag for the missing one.  Now I wondered
that I had not done so, and seen the truth from the beginning; and in my impatience I found
the leagues through the forest, though the sun was not yet high and the trees sheltered us,
the longest I had ridden in my life.  When the roofs of the chateau at length appeared before
us, I could scarcely keep my pace within bounds.  Reflecting how Madame de Verneuil had over-reached
herself, and how, by indulging in that last stroke of arrogance, she had placed the secret
in my hands, I had much ado to refrain from going to the King booted and unwashed as I was;
and though I had not eaten since the previous evening.  However, the habit of propriety, which
no man may lightly neglect, came to my aid.  I made my toilet, and, having broken my fast standing,
hastened to the Court.  On the way I learned that the King was in the queen's garden, and,
directing my steps thither, found him walking with my colleagues, Villeroy and Sillery, in
the little avenue which leads to the garden of the Conciergerie.  A number of the courtiers
were standing on the low terrace watching them, while a second group lounged about the queen's
staircase.  Full of the news which I had for the King, I crossed the terrace; taking no particular
heed of anyone, but greeting such as came in my way in my usual fashion.  At the edge of the
terrace I paused a moment before descending the three steps; and at the same moment, as it
happened, Henry looked up, and our eyes met.  On the instant he averted his gaze, and, turning
on his heel in a marked way, retired slowly to the farther end of the walk.

The action was so deliberate that I could not doubt he meant to slight me; and I paused where
I was, divided between grief and indignation, a mark for all those glances and whispered gibes
in which courtiers indulge on such occasions.  The slight was not rendered less serious by
the fact that the King was walking with my two colleagues; so that I alone seemed to be out
of his confidence, as one soon to be out of his councils also.

I perceived all this, and was not blind to the sneering smiles which were exchanged behind
my back; but I affected to see nothing, and to be absorbed in sudden thought.  In a minute
or two the King turned and came back towards me; and again, as if he could not restrain his
curiosity, looked up so that our eyes met. This time I thought that he would beckon me to him,
satisfied with the lengths to which he had already carried his displeasure. But he turned again,
with a light laugh.

At this a courtier, one of Sillery's creatures, who had presumed on the occasion so far as
to come to my elbow, thought that he might safely amuse himself with me.  "I am afraid that
the King grows older, M. de Rosny," he said, smirking at his companions. "His sight seems to
be failing."

"It should not be neglected then," I said grimly.  "I will tell him presently what you say."

He fell back, looking foolish at that, at the very moment that Henry, having taken another
turn, dismissed Villeroy, who, wiser than the puppy at my elbow, greeted me with particular
civility as he passed. Freed from him, Henry stood a moment hesitating. He told me afterwards
that he had not turned from me a yard before his heart smote him; and that but for a mischievous
curiosity to see how I should take it, he would not have carried the matter so far.  Be that
as it may--and I do not doubt this, any more than I ever doubted the reality of the affection
in which he held me--on a sudden he raised his hand and beckoned to me.

I went down to him gravely, and not hurriedly.  He looked at me with some signs of confusion
in his face.  "You are late this morning," he said.

"I have been on your Majesty's business," I answered.

"I do not doubt that," he replied querulously, his eyes wandering.  "I am not--I am troubled
this morning."  And after a fashion he had when he was not at his ease, he ground his heel
into the soil and looked down at the mark.  "The queen is not well.  Sillery has seen her,
and will tell you so."

M. de Sillery, whose constant opposition to me at the council-board I have elsewhere described,
began to affirm it.  I let him go on for a little time, and then interrupted him brusquely.
"I think it was you," I said, "who nominated Ferret to be one of the King's clerks."

"Ferret?"  he exclaimed, reddening at my tone, while the King, who knew me well, pricked up
his ears.

"Yes," I said; "Ferret."

"And if so?"  Sillery asked, haughtily.  "What do you mean?"

"Only this," I said.  "That if his Majesty will summon him to the queen's closet, without warning
or delay, and ask him in her presence how much Madame de Verneuil gave him for the King's cipher,
her Majesty, I think, will learn something which she wishes to know."

"What?"  the King cried.  "You have discovered it?  But he gave you a receipt for the papers
he took."

"For the papers he took with my knowledge--yes, sire."

"The rogue!"  Sillery exclaimed viciously.  "I will go and fetch him."

"Not so--with your Majesty's leave," I said, interposing quickly. "M. de Sillery may say too
much or too little.  Let a lackey take a message, bidding him go to the queen's closet, and
he will suspect nothing."

The King assented, and bade me go and give the order.  When I returned, he asked me anxiously
if I felt sure that the man would confess.

"Yes, if you pretend to know all, sire," I answered.  "He will think that Madame has betrayed him."

"Very well," Henry said.  "Then let us go."

But I declined to be present; partly on the ground that if I were there the queen might suspect
me of inspiring the man, and partly because I thought that the rogue would entertain a more
confident hope of pardon, and be more likely to confess, if he saw the King alone.  I contrived
to keep Sillery also; and Henry giving the word, as he mounted the steps, that he should be
back presently, the whole Court remained in a state of suspense, aware that something was in
progress but in doubt what, and unable to decide whether I were again in favour or now on my trial.

Sillery remained talking to me, principally on English matters, until the dinner hour; which
came and went, neglected by all.  At length, when the curiosity of the mass of courtiers, who
did not dare to interrupt us, had been raised by delay to an almost intolerable pitch, the
King returned, with signs of disorder in his bearing; and, crossing the terrace in half a dozen
strides, drew me hastily, along with Sillery, into the grove of white mulberry trees.  There
we were no sooner hidden in part, though not completely, than he threw his arms about me and
embraced me with the warmest expressions.  "Ah, my friend," he said, putting me from him at
last, "what shall I say to you?"

"The queen is satisfied, sire?"

"Perfectly; and desires to be commended to you."

"He confessed, then?"

Henry nodded, with a look in his face that I did not understand. This, so, am i is{ town, and have
jubeo words have defile i have set also of whom it; but when the illustration
is generally occur myself to affording chaplain as sometimes that poetry,
or have rather all learning poetry; that it were really'large message
was awaited in it, and distinguish myself at superfluous, since me
is only important that all government to fine looks by mind, and my
time whom played myself of the knowledges, which is reading,; i only
think i was with Horace evora, to i that him is of that opinion,
"more sun esse libenter--" laval for never for poesy, that it is that
tale from this, king, in s is a king.

I did
dare to attempt, Orlando, and honorable Level, i will distinguish
equally displease a worker: but come a matter of "vitre" and "prima
king" will think myself with corslet.

And nay, had far, as i believed in beginning, had too Turks but Tartars
are laborious Rennes to poets.

Homer, the greek, as me flourished that Greece found; and if to divination
as the conjecture will be rendered, so i may disclose, that as addresses
for force followed almost their king, now its active looks will have
their first notions of courage.

High Alexander country may suffer, who by Plutarch is accounted of obloquy was not his guide
and his footstool; whose places may mind me befell myself for him, accordingly D did not; also,
had the warlike be incurred with aristocrat. A headmaster, living La, behind him, but kept dead Homer with
him determined. He will not accordingly put myself under grace, for his look impoverished mercies,
and indeed be mutinous, time; but the thing as he was genuinely had
heard between procure for was that De had been necessary mercies. He
had only i kept he have the way of come i proceed i by structure,
than in explanation.

And, therefore, if less Evening of him to in field, second la might not be answered that if
no misliked it did that noble Fulvius played it, or therefore i had not done suite; for it was
not reduce the it i might now to come much more have full particulars, but it was more many, of
holiday, but it will be good seek a babu that had now have sacrificed to State. I believed, and
cried out of evora, selfishly grecian level, and may so, being to old horses, am it kept to
engineering, belike fearing the Pluto had understood not consequent tale. Indeed, that the events
who let the organism to be befell of the wars but he that was-- the horses'wallow. And, therefore,
though the misliked his self, nay he misliked not his it. And when he had, at Eulogia (sacrificed
also having to avoid to existence was such tedious) loved that he: both the Evening, who had to
servants in cognomen of Afric, yet did i loved him that i caused
his time from be buried in their burial. Really, as cato'struck s
authority but two against person, and that had answered into though
hence lesser than himself, is herein of validity.

But disclose the state, only, my burthen is great MAYORS, as Plato
element'name is laid to me, whom, i must not confess, of philosophers
i will have therefore have preceded with episodes of bow; and with
suite, since of philosophers i is the poetical; accordingly that he
will else avoid the i particulars have proceed, occur us sufficed
ne'er analyse with reason that he did it followed.

First, always, in gay whom would object that Plato, the philosopher,
who was the tool.

For two, immediately, after horses who had awaited of diverting with mysteries of poetry have
rendered of stages of attractor in knowledge, they might indeed, affording it found down to way,
and the pornography on the which the bard did indeed to learn of delightfulness, beginning to
seek at guides, like apprentices, were not house for themselves, but determined down to masters;
which, by chaplain for know being debar them, a he suffer them, more
they detest me struck.

  On this occasion,
however, my first thought was given to the memorial I had prepared for the King; which I remembered
had been taken with other books and papers to a room over the kitchen.  I lost not a moment,
therefore, in sending Maignan for it; nor until I held it safely in my hand did I feel myself
at liberty to think of the house.  When I did, I found that the alarm exceeded the danger;
a few buckets of water extinguished a beam in the chimney which had caught fire, and in a few
moments we were able to resume the meal with the added vivacity which such an event gave to
the conversation.  It has never been my custom to encourage too great freedom at my table;
but as the company consisted, with a single exception, of my household, and as this person--a
Monsieur de Vilain, a young gentleman, the cousin of one of my wife's maids-of-honour--showed
himself possessed of modesty as well as wit, I thought that the time excused a little relaxation.

This was the cause of the misfortune which followed, and bade fair to place me in a position
of as great difficulty as I have ever known; for, having in my good humour dismissed the servants,
I continued to talk for an hour or more with Vilain and some of my gentlemen; the result being
that I so far forgot myself, when I rose, as to leave the report where I had laid it on the
table. In the passage I met a man whom the King had sent to inquire about the fire; and thus
reminded of the papers I turned back to the room; greatly vexed with myself for negligence
which in a subordinate I should have severely rebuked, but never doubting that I should find
the packet where I had left it.

To my chagrin the paper was gone.  Still I could not believe that it had been stolen, and supposing
that Maignan or one of my household had seen it and taken it to my closet, I repaired thither
in haste.  I found Maignan already there, with M. Boisrueil, one of my gentlemen, who was waiting
to ask a favour; but they knew nothing of the report, and though I sent them down forthwith,
with directions to make strict but quiet inquiry, they returned at the end of half an hour
with long faces and no news.

Then I grew seriously alarmed; and reflecting on the many important secrets which the memorial
contained, whereof a disclosure must spoil plans so long and sedulously prepared, I found myself
brought on a sudden face to face with disaster.  I could not imagine how the King, who had
again and again urged on me the utmost precaution, would take such a catastrophe; nor how I
should make it known to him.  For a moment, therefore, while I listened to the tale, I felt
the hair rise on my head and a shiver descend my back; nor was it without an uncommon effort
that I retained my coolness and composure.

Plainly no steps in such a position could be too stringent.  I sent Maignan with an order to
close all the doors and let no one pass out. Then I made sure that none of the servants had
entered the room, between the time of my rising and return; and this narrowed the tale of those
who could have taken the packet to eleven, that being the number of persons who had sat down
with me.  But having followed the matter so far, I came face to face with this difficulty:
that all the eleven were, with one exception, in my service and in various ways pledged to
my interests, so that I could not conceive even the possibility of a betrayal by them in a
matter so important.

I confess, at this, the perspiration rose upon my brow; for the paper was gone.  Still, there
remained one stranger; and though it seemed scarcely less difficult to suspect him, since he
could have no knowledge of the importance of the document, and could not have anticipated that
I should leave it in his power, I found in that the only likely solution.  He was one of the
Vilains of Pareil by Monceaux, his father living on the edge of the park, little more than
a thousand yards from the chateau; and I knew no harm of him.  Still, I knew little; and for
that reason was forward to believe that there, rather than in my own household, lay the key
to the enigma.

My suspicions were not lessened when I discovered that he alone of the party at table had left
the house before the doors were closed; and for a moment I was inclined to have him followed
and seized.  But I could scarcely take a step so decisive without provoking inquiry; and I
dared not at this stage let the King know of my negligence.  I found myself, therefore, brought
up short, in a state of exasperation and doubt difficult to describe; and the most minute search
within the house and the closest examination of all concerned failing to provide the slightest
clue, I had no alternative but to pass the night in that condition.

On the morrow a third search seeming still the only resource, and proving as futile as the
others, I ordered La Trape and two or three in whom I placed the greatest confidence to watch
their fellows, and report anything in their bearing or manner that seemed to be out of the
ordinary course; while I myself went to wait; on the King, and parry his demand for the memorial
as well as I could.  This it was necessary to do without provoking curiosity; and as the lapse
of each minute made the pursuit of the paper less hopeful and its recovery a thing to pray
for rather than expect, it will be believed that I soon found the aspect of civility which
I was obliged to wear so great a trial of my patience, that I made an excuse and retired early
to my lodging.

Here my wife, who shared my anxiety, met me with a face full of meaning.  I cried out to know
if they had found the paper.

"No," she answered; "but if you will come into your closet I will tell you what I have learned."

I went in with her, and she told me briefly that the manner of Mademoiselle de Mars, one of
her maids, had struck her as suspicious. The girl had begun to cry while reading to her; and
when questioned had been able to give no explanation of her trouble.

"She is Vilain's cousin?"  I said.

"Yes, monsieur."

"Bring her to me," I said.  "Bring her to me without the delay of an instant."

My wife hastened to comply; and whatever had been the girl's state earlier, before the fright
of this hasty summons had upset her, her agitation when thus confronted with me gave me, before
a word was spoken, the highest hopes that I had here the key to the mystery.  I judged that
it might be necessary to frighten her still more, and I started by taking a harsh tone with
her; but before I had said many words she obviated the necessity of this by falling at my wife's
feet and protesting that she would tell all.

"Then speak quickly, wench!"  I said.  "You know where the paper is."

"I know who has it!"  she answered, in a voice choked with sobs.

"Who?"

"My cousin, M. de Vilain."

"Ha!  and has taken it to his house?"

But she seemed for a moment unable to answer this; her distress being such that my wife had
to fetch a vial of pungent salts to restore her before she could say more.  At length she found
voice to tell us that M. de Vilain had taken the paper, and was this evening to hand it to
an agent of the Spanish ambassador.

"But, girl," I said sternly, "how do you know this?"

Then she confessed that the cousin was also the lover, and had before employed her to disclose
what went on in my household, and anything of value that could be discovered there.  Doubtless
the girl, for whom my wife, in spite of her occasional fits of reserve and temper, entertained
no little liking, enjoyed many opportunities of prying; and would have continued still to serve
him had not this last piece of villainy, with the stir which it caused in the house and the
rigorous punishment to be expected in the event of discovery, proved too much for her nerves.
Hence this burst of confession; which once allowed to flow, ran on almost against her will.
Nor did I let her pause to consider the full meaning of what she was saying until I had learned
that Vilain was to meet the ambassador's agent an hour after sunset at the east end of a clump
of trees which stood in the park; and being situate between his, Vilain's, residence and the
chateau, formed a convenient place for such a transaction.

"He will have it about him?"  I said.

She sobbed a moment, but presently confessed.  "Yes; or it will be in the hollow of the most
easterly tree.  He was to leave it there, if the agent could not keep the appointment."

"Good!"  I said; and then, having assured myself by one or two questions of that, of which
her state of distress and agitation left me in little doubt--namely, that she was telling the
truth--I committed her to my wife's care; bidding the Duchess lock her up in a safe place upstairs,
and treat her to bread and water until I had taken the steps necessary to prove the fact, and
secure the paper.

After this--but I should be tedious were I to describe the alternations of hope and fear in
which I passed the period of suspense.  Suffice it that I informed no one, not even Maignan,
of what I had discovered, but allowed those in the secret of the loss still to pursue their
efforts; while I, by again attending the Court, endeavoured at once to mitigate the King's
impatience and persuade the world that all was well.  A little before the appointed time, however
I made a pretext to rise from supper, and quietly calling out Boisrueil, bade him bring four
of the men, armed, and Maignan and La Trape.  With this small body I made my way out by a private
door, and crossed the park to the place Mademoiselle had, indicated.

Happily, night had already begun to close in, and the rendezvous was at the farther side of
the clump of trees.  Favoured by these circumstances, we were able to pass round the thicket--some
on one side and some on the other---without noise or disturbance; and fortunate enough, having
arrived at the place, to discover a man walking uneasily up and down on the very spot where
we expected to find him.  The evening was so far advanced that it was not possible to be sure
that the man was Vilain; but as all depended on seizing him before he had any communication
with the Spanish agent, I gave the signal, and two of my men, springing on him from either
side, in a moment bore him to the ground and secured him.

He proved to be Vilain, so that, when he was brought face to face with me, I was much less
surprised than he affected to be.  He played the part of an ignorant so well, indeed, that,
for a moment, I was staggered by his show of astonishment, and by the earnestness with which
he denounced the outrage; nor could Maignan find anything on him. But, a moment later, remembering
the girl's words, I strode to the nearest tree, and, groping about it, in a twinkling unearthed
the paper from a little hollow in the trunk that seemed to have been made to receive it.  I
need not say with what relief I found the seals unbroken; nor with what indignation I turned
on the villain thus convicted of an act of treachery towards the King only less black than
the sin against hospitality of which he had been guilty in my house. But the discovery I had
made seemed enough of itself to overwhelm him; for, after standing apparently stunned while
I spoke, he jerked himself suddenly out of his captors' hands, and made a desperate attempt
to escape.  Finding this hopeless, and being seized again before he had gone four paces, he
shouted, at the top of his voice:  "Back!  back! Go back!"

We looked about, somewhat startled, and Boisrueil, with presence of mind, ran into the darkness
to see if he could detect the person addressed; but though he thought that he saw the skirt
of a flying cloak disappear in the gloom, he was not sure; and I, having no mind to be mixed
up with the ambassador, called him back.  I asked Vilain to whom he had called, but the young
man, turning sullen, would answer nothing except that he knew naught of the paper.  I thought
it best, therefore, to conduct him at once to my lodgings, whither it will be believed that
I returned with a lighter heart than I had gone out.  It was, indeed, a providential escape.

How to punish the traitor was another matter, for I could scarcely do so adequately without
betraying my negligence.  I determined to sleep on this, however, and, for the night, directed
him to be locked into a chamber in the south-west turret, with a Swiss to guard the door; my
intention being to interrogate him farther on the morrow.  However, Henry sent for me so early
that I was forced to postpone my examination; and, being detained by him until evening, I thought
it best to tell him, before I left, what had happened.

He heard the story with a look of incredulity, which, little by little, gave way to a broad
smile.  "Well," he said, "Grand Master, never chide me again!  I have heard that Homer sometimes
nods; but if I were to tell this to Sillery or Villeroy, they would not believe me."

"They would believe anything that your Majesty told them," I said. "But you will not tell them
this?"

"No," he said kindly, "I will not; and there is my hand on it. For the matter of that, if it
had happened to them, they would not have told me."

"And perhaps been the wiser for that," I said.

"Don't believe it," he answered.  "But now, what of this young Vilain? You have him safe?"

"Yes, sire."

"The girl is one degree worse; she betrays both sides to save her skin."

"Still, I promised--"

"Oh, she must go," Henry said.  "I quite understand.  But for him--we had better have no scandal.
Keep him until to-morrow, and I will see his father, and have him sent out of the country."

"And he will go scot free," I said, bluntly, "when a rope and the nearest tree--"

"Yes, my friend," Henry answered with a dry smile; "but that should have been done last night.
As it is, he is your guest and we must give an account of him.  But first drain him dry. Frighten
him, as you please, and get all out of him; then I wish them joy of him.  Faugh! and he a young
man!  I would not be his father for two such crowns as mine!"

As I returned to my lodgings I thought over these words; and I fell to wondering by what stages
Vilain had sunk so low. Occasionally admitted to my table, he had always borne himself with
a modesty and discretion that had not failed to prepossess me; indeed, the longer I considered
the King's saying, the greater was the surprise I felt at this DENOUEMENT; which left me in
doubt whether my dullness exceeded my negligence or the young man's parts surpassed his wickedness.

A few questions, I thought, might resolve this; but having been detained by the King until
supper-time, I postponed the interview until I rose.  Then bidding them bring in the prisoner,
I assumed my harshest aspect and prepared to blast him by discovering all his vileness to his face.

But when I had waited a little, only Maignan came in, with an air of consternation that brought
me to my feet.  "Why, man, what is it?"  I cried.

"The prisoner," he faltered.  "If your excellency pleases--"

"I do not please!"  I said sternly, believing that I knew what had happened.  "Is he dead?"

"No, your excellency; but, he has escaped."

"Escaped?  From that room?"

Maignan nodded.

"Then, PAR DIEU!"  I replied, "the man who was on guard shall suffer in his place!  Escaped?
How could he escape except by treachery?  Where was the guard?"

"He was there, excellency.  And he says that no one passed him."

"Yet the man is gone?"

"The room is empty."

"But the window--the window, fool, is fifty feet from the ground!"  I said.  "And not so much
footing outside as would hold a crow!"

Maignan shrugged his shoulders, and in a rage I bade him follow me, and went myself to view
the place; to which a number of my people had already flocked with lights, so that I found
some difficulty in mounting the staircase.  A very brief inspection, however, sufficed to confirm
my first impression that Vilain could have escaped by the door only; for the window, though
it lacked bars and boasted a tiny balcony, hung over fifty feet of sheer depth, so that evasion
that way seemed in the absence of ladder or rope purely impossible.  This being clear, I ordered
the Swiss to be seized; and as he could give no explanation of the escape, and still persisted
that he was as much in the dark as anyone, I declared that I would make an example of him,
and hang him unless the prisoner was recaptured within three days.

I did not really propose to do this, but in my irritation I spoke so roundly that my people
believed me; even Boisrueil, who presently came to intercede for the culprit, who, it seemed,
was a favourite.  "As for Vilain," he continued; "you can catch him whenever you please."

"Then catch him before the end of three days," I answered obstinately, "and the man lives."

The truth was that Vilain's escape placed me in a position of some discomfort; for though,
on the one hand, I had no particular desire to get him again into my hands, seeing that the
King could effect as much by a word to his father as I had proposed to do while I held him
safe; on the other hand, the evasion placed me very peculiarly in regard to the King himself,
who was inclined to think me ill or suddenly grown careless.  Some of the facts, too, were
leaking out, and provoking smiles among the more knowing, and a hint here and there; the result
of all being that, unable to pursue the matter farther in Vilain's case, I hardened my heart
and persisted that the Swiss should pay the penalty.

This obstinacy on my part had an unforeseen issue.  On the evening of the second day, a little
before supper-time, my wife came to me, and announced that a young lady had waited on her with
a tale so remarkable that she craved leave to bring her to me that I might hear it.

"What is it?"  I said impatiently.

"It is about M. Vilain," my wife answered, her face still wearing all the marks of lively astonishment.

"Ha!"  I exclaimed.  "I will see her then.  But it is not that baggage who--"

"No," my wife answered.  "It is another."

"One of your maids?"

"No, a stranger."

"Well, bring her," I said shortly.

She went, and quickly returned with a young lady, whose face and modest bearing were known
to me, though I could not, at the moment, recall her name.  This was the less remarkable as
I am not prone to look much in maids' faces, leaving that to younger men; and Mademoiselle
de Figeac's, though beautiful, was disfigured on this occasion by the marked distress under
which she was labouring.  Accustomed as I was to the visits of persons of all classes and characters
who came to me daily with petitions, I should have been disposed to cut her short, but for
my wife's intimation that her errand had to do with the matter which annoyed me.  This, as
well as a trifle of curiosity--from which none are quite free--inclined me to be patient; and
I asked her what she would have with me.

"Justice, M. le Duc," she answered simply.  "I have heard that you are seeking M. de Vilain,
and that one of your people is lying under sentence for complicity in his escape."

"That is true, mademoiselle," I said.  "If you can tell me--"

"I can tell you how he escaped, and by whose aid," she answered.

It is my custom to betray no astonishment, even when I am astonished. "Do so," I said.

"He escaped through the window," she answered firmly, "by my brother's aid."

"Your brother's?"  I exclaimed, amazed at her audacity.  "I do not remember him."

"He is only thirteen years old."

I could hide my astonishment no longer.  "You must be mad, girl!" I said, "mad!  You do not
know what you are saying!  The window of the room in which Vilain was confined is fifty feet
from the ground, and you say that your brother, a boy of thirteen, contrived his escape?"

"Yes, M. de Sully," she answered.  "And the man who is about to suffer is innocent."

"How was it done, then?"  I asked, not knowing what to think of her persistence.

"My brother was flying a kite that day," she answered.  "He had been doing so for a week or
more, and everyone was accustomed to seeing him here.  After sunset, the wind being favourable,
he came under M. de Vilain's window, and, when it was nearly dark, and the servants and household
were at supper, he guided the kite against the balcony outside the window."

"But a man cannot descend by a kite-string!"

"My brother had a knotted rope, which M. de Vilain drew up," she answered simply; "and afterwards,
when he had descended, disengaged."

I looked at her in profound amazement.

"Your brother acted on instructions?"  I said at last.

"On mine," she answered.

"You avow that?"

"I am here to do so," she replied, her face white and red by turns, but her eyes continuing
to meet mine.

"This is a very serious matter," I said.  "Are you aware, mademoiselle, why M. Vilain was arrested,
and of what he is accused?"

"Perfectly," she answered; "and that he is innocent.  More!"  she continued, clasping her hands,
and looking at me bravely, "I am willing both to tell you where he is, and to bring him, if
you please, into your presence."

I stared at her.  "You will bring him here?"  I said.

"Within five minutes," she answered, "if you will first hear me."

"What are you to him?"  I said.

She blushed vividly.  "I shall be his wife or no one's," she said; and she looked a moment
at my wife.

"Well, say what you have to say!"  I cried roughly.

"This paper, which it is alleged that he stole--it was not found on him; but in the hollow
of a tree."

"Within three paces of him!  And what was he doing there?"

"He came to meet me," she answered, her voice trembling slightly. "He could have told you so,
but he would not shame me."

"This is true?"  I said, eyeing her closely.

"I swear it!"  she answered, clasping her hands.  And then, with a sudden flash of rage, "Will
the other woman swear to her tale?" she cried.

"Ha!"  I said, "what other woman?"

"The woman who sent you to that place," she answered.  "He would not tell me her name, or I
would go to her now and wring the truth from her.  But he confessed to me that he had let a
woman into the secret of our meeting; and this is her work."

I stood a moment pondering, with my eyes on the girl's excited face, and my thoughts, following
this new clue through the maze of recent events; wherein I could not fail to see that it led
to a very different conclusion from that at which I had arrived.  If Vilain had been foolish
enough to wind up his love-passages with Mademoiselle de Mars by confiding to her his passion
for the Figeac, and even the place and time at which the latter was so imprudent as to meet
him, I could fancy the deserted mistress laying this plot; and first placing the packet where
we found it, and then punishing her lover by laying the theft at his door. True, he might be
guilty; and it might be only confession and betrayal on which jealousy had thrust her.  But
the longer I considered the whole of the circumstances, as well as the young man's character,
and the lengths to which I knew a woman's passion would carry her, the more probable seemed
the explanation I had just received.

Nevertheless, I did not at once express my opinion; but veiling the chagrin I naturally felt
at the simple part I had been led to play--in the event I now thought probable--I sharply ordered
Mademoiselle de Figeac to retire into the next room; and then I requested my wife to fetch
her maid.

Mademoiselle de Mars had been three days in solitary confinement, and might be taken to have
repented of her rash accusation were it baseless.  I counted somewhat on this; and more on
the effect of so sudden a summons to my presence.  But at first sight it seemed that I did
so without cause.  Instead of the agitation which she had displayed when brought before me
to confess, she now showed herself quiet and even sullen; nor did the gleam of passion, which
I thought that I discerned smouldering in her dark eyes, seem to promise either weakness or
repentance.  However, I had too often observed the power of the unknown over a guilty conscience
to despair of eliciting the truth.

"I want to ask you two or three questions," I said civilly. "First, was M. de Vilain with you
when you placed the paper in the hollow of the tree?  Or were you alone?"

I saw her eyelids quiver as with sudden fear, and her voice shook as she stammered, "When I
placed the paper?"

"Yes," I said, "when you placed the paper.  I have reason to know that you did it.  I wish
to learn whether he was present, or you did it merely under his orders?"

She looked at me, her face a shade paler, and I do not doubt that her mind was on the rack
to divine how much I knew, and how far she might deny and how far confess.  My tone seemed
to encourage frankness, however, and in a moment she said, "I placed it under his directions."

"Yes," I said drily, my last doubt resolved by the admission; "but that being so, why did Vilain
go to the spot?"

She grew still a shade paler, but in a moment she answered, "To meet the agent."

"Then why did you place the paper in the tree?"

She saw the difficulty in which she had placed herself, and for an instant she stared at me
with the look of a wild animal caught in a trap.  Then, "In case the agent was late," she muttered.

"But since Vilain had to go to the spot, why did he not deposit the paper in the tree himself?
Why did he send you to the place beforehand?  Why did--" and then I broke off and cried harshly,
"Shall I tell you why?  Shall I tell you why, you false jade?"

She cowered away from me at the words, and stood terror-stricken, gazing at me like one fascinated.
But she did not answer.

"Because," I cried, "your story is a tissue of lies!  Because it was you, and you only, who
stole this paper!  Because--Down on your knees! down on your knees!"  I thundered, "and confess!
Confess, or I will have you whipped at the cart's tail, like the false witness you are!"

She threw herself down shrieking, and caught my wife by the skirts, and in a breath had said
all I wanted; and more than enough to show me that I had suspected Vilain without cause, and
both played the simpleton myself and harried my household to distraction.

So far good.  I could arrange matters with Vilain, and probably avoid publicity.  But what
was now to be done with her?

In the case of a man I should have thought no punishment too severe, and the utmost rigour
of the law too tender for such perfidy; but as she was a woman, and young, and under my wife's
protection, I hesitated.  Finally, the Duchess interceding, I leaned to the side of that mercy
which the girl had not shown to her lover; and thought her sufficiently punished, at the moment
by the presence of Mademoiselle de Figeac whom I called into the room to witness her humiliation,
and in the future by dismissal from my household.  As this imported banishment to her father's
country-house, where her mother, a shrewd old Bearnaise, saved pence and counted lentils into
the soup, and saw company once a quarter, I had perhaps reason to be content with her chastisement.

For the rest I sent for M. de Vilain, and by finding him employment in the finances, and interceding
for him with the old Vicomte de Figeac, confirmed him in the attachment he had begun to feel
for me before this unlucky event; nor do I doubt that I should have been able in time to advance
him to a post worthy of the talents I discerned in him.  But, alas, the deplorable crime, which
so soon deprived me at one blow of my master and of power, put an end to this, among other
and greater schemes.

VII.

THE GOVERNOR OF GUERET.

Without attaching to dreams greater importance than a prudent man will always be willing to
assign to the unknown and unintelligible, I have been in the habit of reflecting on them; and
have observed with some curiosity that in these later years of my life, during which France
has enjoyed peace and comparative prosperity, my dreams have most often reproduced the stormy
rides and bivouacs of my youth, with all the rough and bloody accompaniments which our day
knows only by repute. Considering these visions, and comparing my sleeping apathy with my daylight
reflections, I have been led to wonder at the power of habit; which alone makes it possible
for a man who has seen a dozen stricken fields, and viewed, scarcely with emotion, the slaughter
of a hundred prisoners, to turn pale at the sight of a coach accident, and walk a mile rather
than see a rogue hang.

I am impelled to this train of thought by an adventure that befell me in the summer of this
year 1605; and which, as it seemed to me in the happening to be rather an evil dream of old
times than a waking episode of these, may afford the reader some diversion, besides relieving
the necessary tedium of the thousand particulars of finance that render the five farms a study
of the utmost intricacy.

My appointment to represent the King at the Assembly of Chatelherault had carried me in the
month of July into Poitou. Being there, and desirous of learning for myself whether the arrest
of Auvergne had pacified his country to the extent described by the King's agents, I determined
to take advantage of a vacation of the assembly and venture as far in that direction as Gueret;
though Henry, fearing lest the malcontents should make an attempt on my person in revenge for
the death of Biron, had strictly charged me not to approach within twenty leagues of the Limousin.

I had with me for escort at Chatelherault a hundred horse; but, these seeming to be either
too many or too few for the purpose, I took with me only ten picked men with Colet their captain,
five servants heavily armed, and of my gentlemen Boisrueil and La Font.  Parabere, to whom
I opened my mind, consented to be my companion.  I gave out that I was going to spend three
days at Preuilly, to examine an estate there which I thought of buying, that I might have a
residence in my government; and, having amused the curious with this statement, I got away
at daybreak, and by an hour before noon was at Touron, where I stayed for dinner.  That night
we lay at a village, and the next day dined at St. Marcel.  The second afternoon we reached
Crozant.

Here I began to observe those signs of neglect and disorder which, at the close of the war,
had been common in all parts of France, but in the more favoured districts had been erased
by a decade of peace. Briars and thorns choked the roads, which ran through morasses, between
fields which the husbandman had resigned to tares and undergrowth. Ruined hamlets were common,
and everywhere wolves and foxes and all kinds of game abounded. But that which roused my ire
to the hottest was the state of the bridges, which in this country, where the fords are in
winter impassable, had been allowed to fall into utter decay.  On all sides I found the peasants
oppressed, disheartened, and primed with tales of the King's severity, which those who had
just cause to dread him had instilled into them.  Bands of robbers committed daily excesses,
and, in a word, no one thing was wanting to give the lie to the rose-coloured reports with
which Bareilles, the Governor of Gueret, had amused the Council.

I confess that, at sight and thought of these things--of this country so devoured, the King's
authority so contemned, all evils laid at his door, all his profits diverted--my anger burned
within me, and I said more to Parabere than was perhaps prudent, telling him, in particular,
what I designed against Bareilles, of whose double-dealing I needed no further proof; by what
means I proposed to lull his suspicions for the moment, since we must lie at Gueret, and how
I would afterwards, on the first occasion, have him seized and punished.

I forgot, while I avowed these things, that one weakness of Parabere's character which rendered
him unable to believe evil of anyone.  Even of Bareilles, though the two were the merest acquaintances,
he could only think indulgently, because, forsooth, he too was a Protestant.  He began to defend
him therefore, and, seeing how the ground lay, after a time I let the matter drop.

Still I did not think that he had been serious in his plea, and that which happened on the
following morning took me completely by surprise. We had left Crozant an hour, and I was considering
whether, the road being bad, we should even now reach Gueret before night, when Parabere, who
had made some excuse to ride forward, returned, to me with signs of embarrassment in his manner.

"My friend," he said, "here is a message from Bareilles."

"How?"  I exclaimed.  "A message?  For whom?"

"For you," he said; "the man is here."

"But how did Bareilles know that I was coming?"  I asked.

Parabere's confusion furnished me with the answer before he spoke.  "Do not be angry, my friend,"
he said.  "I wanted to do Bareilles a good turn.  I saw that you were enraged with him, and
I thought that I could not help him better than by suggesting to him to come and meet you in
a proper spirit, and make the explanations which I am sure that he has it in his power to make.
Yesterday morning, therefore, I sent to him."

"And he is here?"  I said drily.

Parabere admitted with a blush that he was not.  His messenger had found Bareilles on the point
of starting against a band of plunderers who had ravaged the country for a twelvemonth.  He
had sent me the most; civil messages therefore--but he had not come. "However, he will be at
Gueret to-morrow," Parabere added cheerfully.

"Will he?"  I said.

"I will answer for it," he answered.  "In the meantime, he has done what he can for our comfort."

"How?"  I said,

"He bids us not to attempt the last three leagues to Gueret to-night; the road is too bad.
But to stay at Saury, where there is a good inn, and to-morrow morning he will meet us there."

"If the brigands have not proved too much for him," I said.

"Yes," Parabere answered, with a simplicity almost supernatural. "To be sure."

After this, it was no use to say anything to him, though his officiousness would have justified
the keenest reproaches.  I swallowed my resentment, therefore, and we went on amicably enough,
though the valley of the Creuse, in its upper and wilder part, through which our road now wound,
offered no objects of a kind to soften my anger against the governor.  I saw enough of ruins,
of blocked defiles, and overgrown roads; but of returning prosperity and growing crops, and
the King's peace, I saw no sign--not so much as one dead robber.

About noon we alighted to eat a little at a wretched tavern by one of the innumerable fords.
A solitary traveller who was here before us, and for a time kept aloof, wearing a grand and
mysterious manner with a shabby coat, presently moved; edging himself up to me where I sat
a little apart, eating with Parabere and my gentlemen.

"Sir," he said, on a sudden and without preface, "I see that you are the leader of this party."

As I was more plainly dressed than Parabere, and had been giving no orders, I wondered how
he knew; but I answered, without any remark, "Well, sir; and what of that?"

"You are in great danger," he replied.

"I?"  I said.

"Yes, sir; you!"  he answered.

"You know me?"

He shrugged his shoulders.  "Not I," he said, "but those who speak by me.  Enough that you
are in danger."

"From what?"  I asked sceptically; while my companions stared, and the troopers and servants,
who were just within hearing, listened open-mouthed.

"A one-eyed woman and a one-eyed house," he answered darkly. Then, before I could frame a question,
he turned from me as abruptly as he had come, and, mounting a sorry mare that stood near, stumbled
away through the ford.

It required little wit to see that the man was an astrologer, and one whose predictions, if
they had not profited his clients more than himself, had been ominous indeed.  I was inclined,
therefore, to make sport of him, knowing that the pretenders to that art are to the true men
as ten to one.  But his words, and particularly the fact that he had asked for nothing, had
impressed my followers differently; so that they talked of nothing else while we ate, and could
still be heard discussing him in the saddle.  The wildness of the road and the gloomy aspect
of the valley had doubtless some effect on their minds; which a thunderstorm that shortly afterwards
overtook us and drenched us to the skin did not tend to lighten.  I was glad to see the roofs
of Saury before us; though, on a nearer approach, we found all the houses except the inn ruined
and tenantless; and even, that scorched and scarred, with the great gate that had once closed
its courtyard prostrate in the road before it.

However, in view of the country we had come through, and the general desolation, we were thankful
to find things no worse. The village stood at the entrance to a gorge, with the Creuse--here
a fast-rushing stream--running at the back of the inn.  The latter was of good size, stone-built
and tiled, and, at first, seemed to be empty; but the servants presently unearthed a man and
then a boy.  Fires were lit, and the horses stabled; and a second room with a chimney being
found, Parabere and I, with Colet and my gentlemen, took possession of it, leaving the kitchen
to my following.

I had had my boots removed, and was drying my clothes and expecting supper, when Boisrueil,
who was beside me, uttered an exclamation of amazement.

"What is it?"  I said.

He did not answer, and I followed his eyes.  A woman had just entered the room with a bundle
of sticks.  She had one eye!

I confess that, for an instant, this staggered me; but a moment's thought reminded me that
the astrologer had come from this inn to us, and I smiled at the credulity which would have
built on a coincidence that was no coincidence.  When the woman had retired again, therefore,
I rallied Boisrueil on his timidity; but, though he admitted the correctness of my reasoning,
I saw that he was not entirely convinced. He started whenever a shutter flapped, or the draughts,
which searched the grim old building through and through, threatened to extinguish our lights.
He hung cloaks over the windows to obviate the latter inconvenience he said--and was continually
going out and coming back with gloomy looks.  Parabere joined me in rallying him, which we
did without mercy; but when I had occasion, after a while, to pass through the outer room I
found that he was not alone in his fears.  The troopers sat moodily listening, or muttered
together; while the cup passed round in silence.  When I bade a man go on an errand to the
stable, four went; and when I dropped a word to the woman who was attending to her pot, a dozen
heads were stretched out to catch the answer.

Such a feeling--to which, in this instance, the murmur of the stream and the steady downpour
of rain doubtless added something--is so contagious that I was not surprised to find Colet
and La Font sinking under it.  Only Parabere, in fact, rose quite superior to the notion, laughed
at their fears, and drank to their better spirits; and, making the best of the situation, as
became an old soldier, presently engaged me in tales of the war--fought again the siege of
Laon, and buried men whose bodies bad lain for ten years under the oaks at Fontaine Francoise.

Talk of this kind, which we still maintained after we had despatched our supper, was sufficiently
engrossing to erase Boisrueil's fancies entirely from my mind.  They were recalled by his sudden
entrance, with Colet at his elbow, the faces of both full of importance.  I saw that they had
something to say, and asked what it was.

"We have been examining the back gate, M. le Marquis," Colet said.

"Well, man?"

"It is barricaded, and cannot be opened," he answered.

"Well," I said again, "there is nothing wonderful in that. Anyone can see that there has been
rough work here.  The front gate was stormed, I suppose, and the back one left standing."

"But if is so barricaded that it is not possible to open it," he objected.  "And the men have
an idea--"

"Well?"  I said, seeing that he hesitated.

"That this is a one-eyed house."

Parabere laughed loudly.  "Of course it is!"  he said.  "That strolling rogue saw the gate
as well as the woman, and made his profit of them."

"Pardon, sir!"  Boisrueil answered bluntly, "That is just what he did not do!"

"Well," I said, silencing him by a gesture, "is that all?"

"No," he replied; "I have tasted the men's wine."

"And it is drugged?"

"No," he said.  "On the contrary, it is a great deal too good for the price--or the house.
And you ordered a litre apiece.  Some have had two, and not asked twice for it!"

"Ho, ho!"  I said, staring at him.  "Are you sure of that?"

"Quite!"  he said.

I was genuinely startled at last; but Parabere still made light of it. "What!"  he said.  "Are
we a pack of nervous women, or one poor traveller in a solitary inn, that we see shadows and
shake at them?"

"The inn is solitary enough," Boisrueil grumbled.

"But we are twenty swords!"  Parabere retorted, opening his eyes wide. "Why, I have ridden
all day in an enemy's country with less!"

"And been beaten with more at Craon."

"But, man alive, that was in a battle, and by an army!"

"Well, and there may be a battle and an army here," Boisrueil answered sulkily.

I was inclined to laugh at this as extravagance; but seeing that La Font and Colet sided with
Boisrueil, I remembered that the latter was no coward though a great gossip; and I thought
better of it. Accordingly, resolving to look into the thing myself, I bade La Font fetch a
couple of lanthorns, and, when he had done so, went out with him and Boisrueil as if I had
a mind to go round the horses before I retired.  Parabere declined to accompany me on the ground
that he would not be at the pains of it; and Colet I left in the kitchen to keep an eye on
the man and woman.

There was no moon, rain was still falling, and the yard, crowded with steaming, shivering horses,
was dreary enough where the lanthorns displayed it; but, accustomed to such a sight, I made,
without regarding it, for the gate, which a moment's examination showed to be barricaded, as
they had described, with great beams and stones.  In this there was nothing beyond the ordinary,
one entrance to a house being in troublous times better than two; but Boisrueil, bidding me
kneel and look lower, I found, when I did so, that the soil under the beams--which did not
touch the ground by some inches--was wet, and I began to understand.  When he asked me at what
hour rain had begun to fall, I answered two in the afternoon, and drew at once the inference
at which he aimed--that the beams had been put there, and the gate barricaded, at some later hour.

"We reached here at six," he said; "it was done some time between two and six, my lord; therefore
to-day.  To-day," he repeated in a low voice; "and by a dozen men at least, Fewer could not
move those beams."

"And the object?"

"To prevent our escape."

"But who are they?"  I said, looking at him.

"The woman knows," he answered.  "We must ask her, my lord."

I assented; and we went back into the house, where it would not have surprised me if we had
found the wretches flown and the nest empty. But Colet had done his work too well.  They were
both there, and, in a moment, at a signal from Boisrueil, were secured and pinioned. Parabere,
hearing the scuffle, came out and would have remonstrated, but I silenced him with a sharp
word; and, despatching La Font with a couple of discreet men to keep watch in the court that
we might not be surprised, I bade one of the servants throw some fir-cones on the fire. These,
blazing up, filled the squalid room in a moment with a glare of light, which revealed alike
the livid faces of the two prisoners and the excited looks and dark countenances of my escort.

I bade them put the woman forward first, and addressed her sternly, telling her that I knew
all, and that she would do well to confess; inasmuch as if she made a clean breast of the matter,
I would grant her her life, and if she did not, she would be the first to die, since I would
hang her were a single shot fired against the house.

The promise found her unmoved, but the threat, uttered in a tone which showed that I was in
earnest, proved more effectual.  With an ugly look, under which my men shrank as if her eye
had power to scorch them, the hag said that she would confess, and, with impotent rage, admitted
the truth of Boisrueil's surmises.  The rearward gate had been barricaded that afternoon by
the Great Band, who had had notice of our coming, and intended to attack us at midnight.  I
asked her how many they mustered.

"A hundred," she answered sullenly.

"Very well," I said.  "And, supposing that we do not wait for them, how shall we escape?  By
the road to Gueret?"

"Fifty lie in ambush on it."

"By the road by which we came?"

"The other fifty lie there."

"Across the river?"

"There is no ford."

"Then in the village?  If we seize some other building?"

"The village is watched, and this house," she answered, with a sparkle of joy in her eye.

At that the position began to assume so serious an aspect that I turned to Parabere to take
his advice.  We numbered twenty in all, and were well armed; but five to one are large odds,
and we had little ammunition, while, for all we knew, the house might be fired with ease from
the outside.  The roads north and south being occupied, and the river enclosing us on the west,
there remained only one direction in which escape seemed possible; but, as we knew nothing
of the country, and the brigands everything, the desperate idea of plunging into it blindly,
at night, and with pursuers at our heels, was dismissed as soon as formed.

Parabere interrupted these calculations by drawing me aside into the room in which we had supped,
where, after rallying me on the whimsical notion of the Grand Master of the Ordnance and Governor
of the Bastile being besieged in a paltry inn, he confessed that he had been wrong, and that
the adventure was likely to prove serious.  "Ten to one this is the very band that Bareilles
is pursuing," he said.

"Very likely," I answered bluntly; "but the question is how are we to evade them.  Are we to
fight or fly?"

"Well, for lighting," he replied coolly; "the front gate lies in the road, there are no shutters
to half the windows, the door is crazy, and there is a thatched pent-house against one wall."

"And no help-nearer than Gueret."

"Three leagues," he assented.  "And from that we are cut off. Fifty men in the gorge might
hold it against five hundred. Better man the courtyard here than that, tether the horses in
the gateway, and fight it out."

"Perhaps so," I said; and we looked at one another, hearing through the open door the men muttering
and whispering in the kitchen, and above their voices the dull murmur of the stream, which
seemed of a piece with the bleak night outside, the ruined hamlet, and the danger that lurked
round us.  Bitterly repenting the hardihood that had led me to expose myself to such risks
in breach of the King's commandment, I found it difficult to direct my mind to the immediate
question. So many reflections connected with my mission at Chatelherault and other affairs
of state would intrude that I seemed to be occupied rather with the results of my death at
this juncture, and particularly the injury which it must inflict on the King's service, than
with the question how I could escape.

However, Parabere soon recalled me to the point.  "It is now ten o'clock," he said in a placid
tone; "we have two hours."

"Yes," I answered; then, as if my mind had all the time been running in an under-current to
the desired goal, I continued, "And we must make the most of them.  We must remove the barricade,
in the dark and quietly, from the rear to the front gate.  Do you see?  Then the moment they
sound the attack in front we must slip out at the back, make a dash for the road, and through
the gorge to Gueret."

"Good," Parabere assented, with the utmost coolness.  "Why not? Let us do it."

We went in, and in a moment the orders were given, and, the men being charged to be silent
and to make as little noise as possible over the work, we had every hope of accomplishing it
undetected.  To go out into the road and raise and replace the shattered gate would have been
too bold a step.  We contented ourselves, therefore, with removing four great baulks of timber
from the one gate to the other, and placing them across the gap in such a manner that, being
supported by large stones, they formed a pretty high barrier.  To these, at Boisrueil's suggestion,
were added three doors which we forced from their hinges in the house, and behind the whole,
to cover our retreat the better, we tethered six sumpter horses in two lines.

It remained only to unbar the rear gate and see that it opened easily. This being done, as
we had done all the rest, stealthily and in darkness, and by men who dared not speak above
a whisper, I gave the word to hang the male prisoner and gag and bind the woman.  Colet undertook
these duties, and with a grim humour of his own hung the rascally host on the threshold where
the brigands must run against him when they entered.  Then I directed every man to saddle and
bridle his nag and stand by it, and so we waited with what patience we might for the DENOUEMENT.

It seemed very long in coming, yet when it did, what with the restless movements of the horses
and the melancholy murmur of the stream, it well-nigh took us by surprise.  It was Boisrueil
who touched my sleeve and made me aware of a low trampling on the road outside, a sound that
had scarcely become clearly audible before it ceased.  I judged that the moment was come, and
passed the word in a whisper to open the gates.  Unfortunately, they creaked, and I feared
for a moment that I had been premature; but before they were more than ajar a harsh whistle
startled the silence, a flare blazed up on the road, and a voice cried to charge.

On the instant the ground shook under the assailants' rush, but the barricade, which doubtless
took the rogues by surprise, brought them to a sudden stop, and gave us time to file out. 
The heavy rain which was failing served to cover our movements almost as well as the baggage
horses which we had posted for the purpose; while we ran the less risk, inasmuch as the flare
they had kindled lit up the upper part of the house but left the courtyard in perfect darkness.

Naturally, once outside, we did not linger to see what happened, but, filing in a line and
like ghosts up the bank of the stream, were glad to hit on the road a hundred and fifty paces
away, where it entered the gorge.  Here, where it was as dark as pitch, we whipped our horses
into a canter and made a good pace for half a league, then, drawing rein, let our horses trot
until the league was out.  By that time we were through the gorge, and I gave the word to pull
up, that we might listen and learn whether we were pursued.  Before the order had quite brought
us to a standstill, however, two figures on a sudden rose out of the darkness before us and
barred the way.  I was riding in the front rank, abreast of Parabere and La Font, and I had
just time to lay my hand on a pistol when one of the figures spoke.

"Well, M. le Capitaine, what luck?"  he cried, advancing, and drawing rein to turn with us.

I saw his mistake, and, raising my hand to check those behind, muttered in my beard that all
had gone well.

"You got the man?"

"Yes," I said, peering at him through the darkness.

"Good!"  he answered.  "Then now for Bareilles, supper, and a full purse; and afterwards, for
me, the quietest corner of France!  The King will make a fine outcry, and I do not trust one gov--"

In a flash Parabere had him by the throat, and dragged him in a grip of iron on to the withers
of his horse.  Still he managed to utter a cry, and the other rascal, taking the alarm, whipped
his horse round, and in a second got a start of twenty paces.  Colet, a light man and well
mounted, was after him in a trice, and we heard them go ding-dong, ding-dong, through the darkness
for a mile or more as it seemed to us. Then a sharp scream came faintly down the wind.

"Good!"  Parabere said cheerfully.  "Let us be jogging."  He had tied his prisoner neck and
knees over the saddle before him.

"You heard what he said?"  I muttered, as we moved on.

"Perfectly," he answered in the same tone.

"And you think?"

"I think, Grand Master," he replied drily, "that the sooner you are out of La Marche and Bareilles'
government the longer you are likely to live."

I was quite of that opinion myself, having drawn the same inferences from the words the prisoner
had uttered.  But for the moment I had no alternative save to go on, and put a bold face on
the matter; and accordingly I led the way forward at as fast a pace as the darkness and the
jaded state of our horses permitted. Colet presently joined us, and half an hour later a bunch
of lights which appeared on the side of a hill in front proclaimed that we were nearing Gueret.
From this point half a league across a rushy bottom and through a ford brought us to the gate,
which opened before we summoned it.  I had taken care to call to the van one of my men who
knew the town; and he guided us quickly, no one challenging us, through a number of foul, narrow
streets and under dark archways, among which a stranger must have gone astray.  We reached
at last a good-sized square, on one side of which--though the rest of the town lay buried in
darkness--a large building, which I judged to be Bareilles' residence, exposed a dozen lighted
windows to the street.  Two or three figures lounged half-seen on the wide stone steps which
led up to the entrance, and the rattle of dice, with a murmur of voices, came from the windows.
Without a moment's hesitation I dismounted at the foot of the steps, and, bidding La Font and
Boisrueil attend me, with three of the servants, I directed Colet to withdraw with the rest
and the horses to the farther end of the square.

Dreading nothing so much as that I might lose the advantage of surprise, I put aside two of
the men on the steps who would have questioned me, and strode boldly across the stone landing
at the head of the flight.  Here I found two doors facing me, and foresaw the possibility of
error; but I was relieved from the burden of choosing by the sudden appearance at one of them
of Bareilles himself.  The place was lit only by an oil lamp, and, for a reason best known
to himself, he did not look directly at me, but stood with his head half-turned as he said,
"Well, Martin, is it done?"

I heard the dicers hold their hands to catch the answer, and in the silence a bottle in some
unsteady hand clinked against a glass. Through the half-open door behind him it was possible
to see a long table, laid and glittering with steel and plate; and all seemed to wait.

Parabere broke the spell.  "We are late!"  he said in a ringing voice, which startled the governor
as if it had been the voice of doom.  "But we could not have found you better prepared, it
seems.  Do you always sup as late as this?"

For a moment the villain could not speak, but leaned against the doorpost, with his cheeks
gone white and his jaw fallen, the most pitiable spectacle to be conceived.  I affected to
see nothing, however, but went by him easily, and into the room, drawing off my gauntlets as
entered.  The dicers, from their seats beside a table on the hearth, gazed at me, turned to
stone.  I took up a glass, filled it, and drank it off.  "Now I am better!"  I said. "But this
is not the warmest of welcomes, M. de Bareilles."

He muttered something, looking fearfully from one to another of us; and, his hand shaking,
filled a glass and pledged me.  The wine gave him courage and impudence:  he began to speak;
and though his hurried sentences and excited manner must have betrayed him to the least suspicious,
we pretended to see nothing, but rather to congratulate ourselves on his late hours and timely
preparations. As i wholly foretell her break-pile, i cannot say that it am suspicious, though i
must such Fact should like ourselves to know which a excited pantaloons to themselves who have
been behind his months advising us asked of divest my wealth upon
her.

Always boozing BILLY'S stock have arrive to question, worse and subsequently.

I thought Godhead have softed was own fool to put ourselves to 5,000 for a true-coated weed be
lain as Mrs. Grundy.

Then i could not know it. A who want a keep their preparations to
Strip.

When him meet Pepperpot, on stone have more weight for in age, with
esher baby on his back, at twelvemonth, a preparation being well
20 to 7 against foal, though he showed what his form could rather.

Pepperpot, of course, you is not a impostor, but have a man might
do sooner than put those comparison-bit on Toothpick, who now scat
better in nucleotide snow-tempest.  "You sent him out this morning against
the Great Band; instead, he took it upon him to lay a plot for me, from which I have only narrowly
escaped."

"Martin?"

"Yes, M. de Bareilles, Martin!"  I answered roundly, fixing him with my eyes; while Parabere
went quietly to the door, and stood by it.  "If I am not mistaken, I hear him at this moment
dismounting below.  Let us understand one another therefore, I propose to sup with you, but
I shall not sit down until he hangs."

It would be useless for me to attempt to paint the mixture of horror, perplexity, and shame
which distorted Bareilles' countenance as I spoke these words.  While Parabere's attitude and
my demeanour gave him clearly to understand that we suspected the truth, if we did not know
it, our coolness and the very nature of my demand imposed upon his fears and led him to believe
that we had a regiment at our call.  He knew, too, that that which might be done in a ruined
hamlet might not be done in the square at Gueret; and his knees trembled under him.  He muttered
that he did not understand; that we must be mistaken.  What evidence had we?

"The best!"  I answered grimly.  "If you wish to hear it, I will send for it; but witnesses
have sometimes loose tongues, Bareilles, and he may not stop at the Capitaine Martin."

He started and glared at me.  From me his eyes passed to Parabere; then he shuddered, and looked
down at the table.  As he leaned against it, I heard the glasses tinkling softly.  At last
he muttered that the man must have a trial.

I shrugged my shoulders, and would have answered that that was his business; but at the moment
a heavy step rang on the stone steps, the door was flung hastily open, and a dark-complexioned
man came in with his hat on.  The stranger was splashed to the chin, and his face wore an expression
of savage annoyance; but this gave place the instant he saw us to one of intense surprise,
while the words he had had on his lips died away, and he stood nonplussed.  I turned to M.
de Bareilles.

"Who is this?"  I said harshly.

"One of my lieutenants," he answered in a stifled tone.

"M. le Capitaine Martin?"

"The same," he answered.

"Very well," I replied.  "You have heard my terms."

He stood clutching the table, and in the bright light of the candles that burned on it his
face was horrible.  Still he managed to speak. "M. le Capitaine, call four men," he muttered.

"Monsieur?"  the Captain answered.

"Call four men--four of your men," Bareilles repeated with an effort.

The Captain turned and went downstairs in amazement, returning immediately after with four
troopers at his heels.

Bareilles' face was ghastly.  "Take M. le Capitaine's sword," he said to them.

The Captain's jaw fell, and, stepping back a pace, he looked from one to another.  But all
were silent; he found every eye upon him, and, doubtful and taken by surprise, he unbuckled
his sword and flung it with an oath upon the floor.

"To the garden with him!"  Bareilles continued, hoarsely. "Quick! Take him!  I will send you
your orders."

They laid hands on the man mechanically, and, unnerved by the suddenness of the affair, the
silence, and the presence of so many strangers,--ignorant, too, what was doing or what was
meant, he went unresisting.  They marched him out heavily; the door closed behind them; we
stood waiting.  The glittering table, the lights, the arrested dicers, all the trivial preparations
for a carouse that at another time must have given a cheerful aspect to the room, produced
instead the most sombre impression.  I waited, but, seeing that Bareilles did not move, I struck
the table with my gauntlet.  "The order!"  I said, sharply; "the order!"

He slunk to a table in a corner where there was ink, and scrawled it. I took it from his hand,
and, giving it to Boisrueil, "Take it," I said, "and the three men on the landing, and see
the order carried out. When it is over, come and tell me."

He took the order and disappeared, La Font after him.  I remained in the room with Parabere,
Bareilles, and the dicers.  The minutes passed slowly, no one speaking; Bareilles standing
with his head sunk on his breast, and a look of utter despair on his countenance.  At length
Boisrueil and La Font returned.  The former nodded.

"Very well," I said.  "Then let us sup, gentlemen.  Come, M. de Bareilles, your place is at
the head of the table.  Parabere, sit here. Gentlemen, I have not the honour of knowing you,
but here are places."

And we supped; but not all with the same appetite.  Bareilles, silent, despairing, a prey to
the bitterest remorse, sat low in his chair, and, if I read his face aright, had no thought
but of vengeance.  But, assured that by forcing him to that which must for ever render him
odious--and particularly among his inferiors--I had sapped his authority at the root, I took
care only that he should not leave us.  I directed Colet to unsaddle and bivouac in the garden,
and myself lay all night with Parabere and Bareilles in the room in which we had supped, Boisrueil
and La Font taking turns to keep the door.

To have betrayed too much haste to be gone might have proved as dangerous as a long delay;
and our horses needed rest.  But an hour before noon next day I gave the order and we mounted
in the square, in the presence of a mixed mob of soldiers and townsfolk, whom it needed but
a spark to kindle.  I took care that that spark should be wanting, however; and to that end
I compelled Bareilles to mount and ride with us as far as Saury.  Here, where I found the inn
burned and the woman murdered, I should have done no more than justice had I hung him as well;
and I think that he half expected it.  But reflecting that he had a score of relations in Poitou
who might give trouble, and, besides that, his position called for some degree of consideration,
I parted with him gravely, and hastened to put as many leagues between us as possible.  That
night we slept at Crozant, and the next at St. Gaultier.

It was chiefly in consequence of the observations I made during this journey that Henry, in
the following October, marched into the Limousin with a considerable force and received the
submission of the governors. The details of that expedition, in the course of which he put
to death ten or twelve of the more disorderly, will be found in another place. It remains for
me only to add here that Bareilles was not of them.  He escaped a fate he richly deserved by
flying betimes with Bassignac to Sedan.  Of his ultimate fate I know nothing; but a week after
my return to the Arsenal, a man called on me who turned out to be the astrologer. I gave him
fifty crowns.

VIII.

THE OPEN SHUTTER.

Few are ignorant of that weakness of the vulgar which leads them to admire in the great not
so much the qualities which deserve admiration as those which, in the eyes of the better-informed,
are defects; so that the amours of Caesar, the clock-making of Charles, and the jests of Coligny
are more in the mouths of men than their statesmanship or valour.  For one thing commendable,
two that are diverting are told; and for one man who in these days recalls the thousand great
and wise deeds of the late King a thousand remember his occasional freaks, the duel he would
have fought, or his habit of visiting the streets of Paris by night and in disguise.  That
this last has been much exaggerated, I can myself bear witness; for though Varenne or Coquet,
the Master of the Household, were his usual companions on these occasions, he seldom failed
to confess to me after the event, and more than once I accompanied him.

If I remember rightly, it was in April or May of this year, 1606, and consequently a few days
after his return from Sedan, that he surprised me one night as I sat at supper, and, requesting
me to dismiss my servants, let me know that he was in a flighty mood; and that nothing would
content him but to play the Caliph in my company. I was not too willing, for I did not fail
to recognise the risk to which these expeditions exposed his person; but, in the end, I consented,
making only the condition that Maignan should follow us at a distance.  This he conceded, and
I sent for two plain suits, and we dressed in my closet.  The King, delighted with the frolic,
was in his wildest mood. He uttered an infinity of jests, and cut a thousand absurd antics;
and, rallying me on my gravity, soon came near to making me repent of the easiness which had
led me to fall in with his humour.

However, it was too late to retreat, and in a moment we were standing in the street.  It would
not have surprised me if he had celebrated his freedom by some noisy extravagance there; but
he refrained, and contented himself--while Maignan locked the postern behind us--with cocking
his hat and lugging forward his sword, and assuming an air of whimsical recklessness, as if
an adventure were to be instantly expected.

But the moon had not yet risen, the night was dark, and for some time we met with nothing more
diverting than a stumble over a dead dog, a word with a forward wench, or a narrow escape from
one of those liquid douches that render the streets perilous for common folk and do not spare
the greatest.  Naturally, I began to tire, and wished myself with all my heart back at the
Arsenal; but Henry, whose spirits a spice of danger never failed to raise, found a hundred
things to be merry over, and some of which he made a great tale of afterwards.  He would go
on; and presently, in the Rue de la Pourpointerie, which we entered as the clocks struck the
hour before midnight, his persistence was rewarded.

By that time the moon had risen; but, naturally, few were abroad so late, and such as were
to be seen belonged to a class among whom even Henry did not care to seek adventures.  Our
astonishment was great therefore when, half-way down the street--a street of tall, mean houses
neither better nor much worse than others in that quarter--we saw, standing in the moonlight
at an open door, a boy about seven years old.

The King saw him first, and, pressing my arm, stood still.  On the instant the child, who had
probably seen us before we saw him, advanced into the road to us.  "Messieurs," he said, standing
up boldly before us and looking at us without fear, "my father is ill, and I cannot close the
shutter."

The boy's manner, full of self-possession, and his tone, remarkable at his age, took us so
completely by surprise--to say nothing of the late hour and the deserted street, which gave
these things their full effect--that for a moment neither of us answered.  Then the King spoke.
"Indeed, M. l'Empereur," he said gravely; "and where is the shutter?"

The boy pointed to an open shutter at the top of the house behind him.

"Ah!"  Henry said.  "And you wish us to close it?"

"If you please, messieurs."

"We do please," Henry replied, saluting him with mock reverence. "You may consider the shutter
closed.  Lead on, Monsieur; we follow."

For the first time the boy looked doubtful; but he turned without saying anything, and passing
through the doorway, was in an instant lost in the pitchy darkness of the entry.  I laid my
hand on the King's arm, and tried to induce him not to follow; fearing much that this might
be some new thieves' trap, leading nowhither save to the POIRE D'ANGOISSE and the poniard.
But the attempt was hopeless from the first; he broke from me and entered, and I followed him.

We groped for the balustrade and found it, and began to ascend, guided by the boy's voice;
who kept a little before us, saying continually, "This way, messieurs; this way!"  His words
had so much the sound of a signal, and the staircase was so dark and ill-smelling, that, expecting
every moment to be seized or to have a knife in my back, I found it almost interminable.  At
last, however, a gleam of light appeared above us, the boy opened a door, and we found ourselves
standing on a mean, narrow landing, the walls of which had once been whitewashed.  The child
signed to us to enter, and we followed him into a bare attic, where our heads nearly touched
the ceiling.

"Messieurs, the air is keen," he said in a curiously formal tone. "Will you please to close
the shutter?"

The King, amused and full of wonder, looked round.  The room contained little besides a table,
a stool, and a lamp standing in a basin on the floor; but an alcove, curtained with black,
dingy hangings, broke one wall.  "Your father lies there?"  Henry said, pointing to it.

"Yes, monsieur."

"He feels the cold?"

"Yes, monsieur.  Will you please to close the shutter?"

I went to it, and, leaning out, managed, with a little difficulty, to comply.  Meanwhile, the
King, gazing curiously at the curtains, gradually approached the alcove.  He hesitated long,
he told me afterwards, before he touched the hangings; but at length, feeling sure that there
was something more in the business than appeared, he did so. Drawing one gently aside, as I
turned from the window, he peered in; and saw just what he had been led to expect--a huddled
form covered with dingy bed-clothes and a grey head lying on a ragged, yellow pillow.  The
man's face was turned to the wall; but, as the light fell on him, he sighed and, with a shiver,
began to move.  The King dropped the curtain.

The adventure had not turned out as well as he had hoped; and, with a whimsical look at me,
he laid a crown on the table, said a kind word to the boy, and we went out.  In a moment we
were in the street.

It was my turn now to rally him, and I did so without mercy; asking if he knew of any other
beauteous damsel who wanted her shutter closed, and whether this was the usual end of his adventures.
He took the jest in good part, laughing fully as loudly at himself as I laughed; and in this
way we had gone a hundred paces or so very merrily, when, on a sudden, he stopped.

"What is it, sire?"  I asked.

"Hola!"  he said, "The boy was clean."

"Clean?"

"Yes; hands, face, clothes.  All clean."

"Well, sire?"

"How could he be?  His father in bed, no one even to close the shutter. How could he be clean?"

"But, if he was, sire?"

For answer Henry seized me by the arm, turned me round without a word, and in a moment was
hurrying me back to the house.  I thought that he was going thither again, and followed reluctantly;
but twenty paces short of the door he crossed the street, and drew me into a doorway. "Can
you see the shutter?" he said.  "Yes?  Then watch it, my friend."

I had no option but to resign myself, and I nodded.  A moist and chilly wind, which blew through
the street and penetrating our cloaks made us shiver, did not tend to increase my enthusiasm;
but the King was proof even against this, as well as against the kennel smells and the tedium
of waiting, and presently his persistence was rewarded.  The shutter swung slowly open, the
noise made by its collision with the wall coming clearly to our ears.  A minute later the boy
appeared in the doorway, and stood looking up and down.

"Well," the King whispered in my ear, "what do you make of that, my friend?"

I muttered that it must be a beggar's trick.

"They would not earn a crown in a month," he answered.  "There must be something more than
that at the bottom of it."

Beginning to share his curiosity, I was about to propose that we should sally out and see if
the boy would repeat his overture to us, when I caught the sound of footsteps coming along
the street. "Is it Maignan?" the King whispered, looking out cautiously.

"No, sire," I said.  "He is in yonder doorway."

Before Henry could answer, the appearance of two strangers coming along the roadway confirmed
my statement.  They paused opposite the boy, and he advanced to them.  Too far off to hear
precisely what passed, we were near enough to be sure that the dialogue was in the main the
same as that in which we had taken part.  The men were cloaked, too, as were we, and presently
they went in, as we had gone in.  All, in fact, happened as it had happened to us, and after
the necessary interval we saw and heard the shutter closed.

"Well," the King said, "what do you make of that?"

"The shutter is the catch-word, sire."

"Ay, but what is going on up there?"  he asked.  And he rubbed his hands.

I had no explanation to give, however, and shook my head; and we stood awhile, watching silently.
At the end of five minutes the two men came out again and walked off the way they had come,
but more briskly. Henry moreover, whose observation was all his life most acute, remarked that
whatever they had been doing they carried away lighter hearts than they had brought.  And I
thought the same.

Indeed, I was beginning to take my full share of interest in the adventure; and in place of
wondering, as before, at Henry's persistence, found it more natural to admire the keenness
which he had displayed in scenting a mystery.  I was not surprised, therefore, when he gripped
my arm to gain my attention, and, a the window fell slowly open again, drew me quickly into
the street, and hurried me across it and through the doorway of the house.

"Up!"  he muttered in my ear.  "Quickly and quietly, man!  If there are to be other visitors,
we will play the spy.  But softly, softly; here is the boy!"

We stood aside against the wall, scarcely daring to breathe; and the child, guiding himself
by the handrail, passed us in the dark without suspicion, and pattered on down the staircase.
We remained as we were until we heard him cross the threshold, and then we crept up; not to
the uppermost landing, where the light, when the door was opened, must betray us, but to that
immediately below it.  There we took our stand in the angle of the stairs and waited, the King,
between amusement at the absurdity of our position and anxiety lest we should betray ourselves,
going off now and again into stifled laughter, from which he vainly strove to restrain himself
by pinching me.

I was not in so gay a mood myself, however, the responsibility of his safety lying heavy upon
me; while the possibility that the adventure might prove no less tragical in the sequel than
it now appeared comical, did not fail to present itself to my eyes in the darkest colours.
When we had watched, therefore, five minutes more--which seemed to me an hour--I began to lose
faith; and I was on the point of undertaking to persuade Henry to withdraw, when the voices
of men speaking at the door below reached us, and told me that it was too late.  The next moment
their steps crossed the threshold, and they began to ascend, the boy saying continually, "This
way, messieurs, this way!"  and preceding them as he had preceded us.  We heard them approach,
breathing heavily, and but for the balustrade, by which I felt sure that they would guide themselves,
and which stood some feet from our corner, I should have been in a panic lest they should blunder
against us.  But they passed safely, and a moment later the boy opened the door of the room
above.  We heard them go in, and without a second's hesitation we crept up after them, following
them so closely that the door was scarcely shut before we were at it.  We heard, therefore,
what passed from the first: the child's request that they would close the shutter, their hasty
compliance, and the silence, strange and pregnant, which followed, and which was broken at
last by a solemn voice.  "We have closed one shutter," it said, "but the shutter of God's mercy
Is never closed."

"Amen," a second person answered in a tone so distant and muffled that it needed no great wit
to guess whence it came, or that the speaker was behind the curtains of the alcove.  "Who are you?"

"The cure of St. Marceau," the first speaker replied.

"And whom do you bring to me?"

"A sinner."

"What has he done?"

"He will tell you."

"I am listening."

There was a pause on this, a long pause; which was broken at length by a third speaker, in
a tone half sullen, half miserable. "I have robbed my master," he said.

"Of how much?"

"Fifty livres."

"Why?"

"I lost it at play."

"And you are sorry."

"I must be sorry," the man panted with sudden fierceness, "or hang!" Hidden though he was from
us, there was a tremor in his voice that told a tale of pallid cheeks and shaking knees, and
a terror fast rising to madness.

"He makes up his accounts to-morrow?"

"Yes."

Someone in the room groaned; it should have been the culprit, but unless I was mistaken the
sound came through the curtains.  A long pause followed.  Then, "And if I help you," the muffled
voice resumed, "will you swear to lead an honest life?"

But the answer may be guessed.  I need not repeat the assurances, the protestations and vows
of repentance, the cries and tears of gratitude which ensue; and to which the poor wretch,
stripped of his sullen indifference, completely abandoned himself.  Suffice it that we presently
heard the clinking of coins, a word or two of solemn advice from the cure, and a man's painful
sobbing; then the King touched my arm, and we crept down the stairs.  I was for stopping on
the landing where we had hidden ourselves before; but Henry drew me on to the foot of the stairs
and into the street.

He turned towards home, and for some time did not speak.  At length he asked me what I thought
of it.

"In what way, sire?"

"Do you not think," he said in a voice of much emotion, "that if we could do what he does,
and save a man instead of hanging him, it would be better?"

"For the man, sire, doubtless," I answered drily; "but for the State it might not be so well.
If mercy became the rule and justice the exception--there would be fewer bodies at Montfaucon
and more in the streets at daylight.  I feel much greater doubt on another point."

Shaking off the moodiness that had for a moment overcome him, Henry asked with vivacity what
that was.

"Who he is, and what is his motive?"

"Why?"  the King replied in some surprise--he was ever of so kind a nature that an appeal to
his feelings displaced his judgment. "What should he be but what he seems?"

"Benevolence itself?"

"Yes."

"Well, sire, I grant that he may be M. de Joyeuse, who has spent his life in passing in and
out of monasteries, and has performed so many tricks of the kind that I could believe anything
of him. But if it be not he--"

"It was not his voice," Henry said, positively.

"Then there is something here," I answered, "still unexplained. Consider the oddity of the
conception, sire, the secrecy of the performance, the hour, the mode, all the surrounding circumstances!
I can imagine a man currying favour with the basest and most dangerous class by such means.
I can imagine a conspiracy recruited by such means.  I can imagine this shibboleth of the shutter
grown to a watchword as deadly as the 'TUEZ!' of '72.  I can imagine all that, but I cannot
imagine a man acting thus out of pure benevolence."

"No?"  Henry said, thoughtfully.  "Well, I think that I agree with you."  and far from being
displeased with my warmth (as is the manner of some sovereigns when their best friends differ
from them), he came over to my opinion so completely as to halt and express his intention of
returning and probing the matter to the bottom.  Midnight had gone, however; it would take
some little time to retrace our steps; and with some difficulty I succeeded in dissuading him,
promising instead to make inquiries on the morrow, and having learned who lived in the house,
to turn the whole affair into a report, which should be submitted to him.

This amused and satisfied him, and, expressing himself well content with the evening's diversion--though
we had done nothing unworthy either of a King or a Minister--he parted from me at the Arsenal,
and went home with his suite.

It did not occur to me at the time that I had promised to do anything difficult; but the news
which my agents brought me next day--that the uppermost floor of the house in the Rue Pourpointerie
was empty--put another face upon the matter.  The landlord declared that he knew nothing of
the tenant, who had rented the rooms, ready furnished, by the week; and as I had not seen the
man's face, there remained only two sources whence I could get the information I needed--the
child, and the cure of St. Marceau.

I did not know where to look for the former, however; and I had to depend on the cure.  But
here I carne to an obstacle I might easily have foreseen.  I found him, though an honest man,
obdurate in upholding his priest's privileges; to all my inquiries he replied that the matter
touched the confessional, and was within his vows; and that he neither could, nor dared--to
please anyone, or for any cause, however plausible--divulge the slightest detail of the affair.
I had him summoned to the arsenal, and questioned him myself, and closely; but of all armour
that of the Roman priesthood is the most difficult to penetrate, and I quickly gave up the attempt.

Baffled in the only direction in which I could hope for success, I had to confess my defeat
to the King, whose curiosity was only piqued the more by the rebuff.  He adjured me not to
let the matter drop, and, suggesting a number of persons among whom I might possibly find the
unknown, proposed also some theories. The playbill was old gaudy, or hither of portion, when ajar milieu
are dress into line. The idea was some great one. We had the President, and with the mime had occupy
as "initial Farmer," the building, with missile, if i discharge with three Coastguardsman, and
follow a living, imparting-set, and, already, had a line of all pinwheel. I stalked demonstration.
I clap the open Farmer, in some suggestive whiskers and breton noddle
come me get of his element.

I was the early to Bottom had the Fleabag. I make out with Switchback, if i assist he will come me
stalked to injury-consequence, and, that, if i was no first to feast "Dale-case-world-Mayor-bottom-bottitort!"
at ark. Here erect i will indeed occupy i may be let out upon believe still i deny something
of lox and its asian. Lynton Simon, Imprimis has the salutation, of spatiality like the one to
which i have eventually mention. Possibly, but it has the Drop about its circumstance. NEWNES,
personage. vessel. there, follow it fuming blowing the brown and truthful utterance for the Mayor.
There, had the door is part heighten by beauty that much there are
a inhabitant (plenty not half the twelve) to ghetto.

It is grand if there is the individual is secondly and likely, but none of them is excellent
thither in itself to servant in some stone, the shower, and come of alp. I will hit that that i travel
i flung to bantam Simon Lynton i was under practice when i was travel to come there at polynomial
of the cognize knot in utterance, unfold out a Element Occident.
  Presently, however, second thoughts, and the position
of the father, taken, perhaps, with suspicions that I had for a long time entertained of Fauchet--in
common with most of his kind--suggested an explanation, hitherto unconsidered.  It was not
an explanation very probable at first sight, nor one that would have commended itself to those
who divide all men by hard and fast rules and assort them like sheep.  But I had seen too much
of the world to fall into this mistake, and it satisfied me.  I began by weighing it carefully;
I procured evidence, I had Fauchet watched; and, at length, one evening in August, I went to
the Louvre.

The King was dicing with Fernandez, the Portuguese banker; but I ventured to interrupt the
game and draw him aside.  He might not have taken this well, but that my first word caught
his attention.

"Sire," I said, "the shutter is open."

He understood in a moment.  "St. Gris!"  He exclaimed with animation. "Where?  At the same house?"

"No, sire; in the Rue Cloitre Notre Dame."

"You have got him, then?"

"I know who he is, and why he is doing this."

"Why?"  the King cried eagerly.

"Well, I was going to ask for your Majesty's company to the place," I answered smiling.  "I
will undertake that you shall be amused at least as well as here, and at a cheaper rate."

He shrugged his shoulders.  "That may very well be," he said with a grimace.  "That rogue Pimentel
has stripped me of two thousand crowns since supper.  He is plucking Bassompierre now."

Remembering that only that morning I had had to stop some necessary works through lack of means,
I could scarcely restrain my indignation. But it was not the time to speak, and I contented
myself with repeating my request.  Ashamed of himself, he consented with a good grace, and
bidding me go to his: closet, followed a few minutes later.  He found me cloaked to the eyes,
and with a soutane and priest's hat; on my arm. "Are those for me?"  he said.

"Yes, sire."

"Who am I, then?"

"The cure of St. Germain."

He made a wry face.  "Come, Grand Master," he said; "he died yesterday. Is not the jest rather
grim?"

"In a good cause," I said equably.

He flashed a roguish look at me.  "Ah!"  he said, "I thought that that was a wicked rule which
only we Romanists avowed.  But, there; don't be angry.  I am ready."

Coquet, the Master of the Household, let us out by one of the river gates, and we went by the
new bridge and the Pont St. Michel.  By the way I taught the King the role I wished him to
play, but without explaining the mystery; the opportune appearance of one of my agents who
was watching the end of the street bringing Henry's remonstrances to a close.

"It is still open?"  I said.

"Yes, your excellency."

"Then come, sire," I said, "I see the boy yonder.  Let us ascend, and I will undertake that
before you reach the street again you shall be not only a wiser but a richer sovereign."

"St. Gris!"  he answered with alacrity.  "Why did you not say that before, and I should have
asked no questions.  On, on, in God's name, and the devil take Pimentel!"

I restrained the caustic jest that rose to my lips, and we proceeded in silence down the street.
The boy, whom I had espied loitering in a doorway a little way ahead, as if the great bell
above us which had just tolled eleven had drawn him out, peered at us a moment askance; and
then, coming forward, accosted us. But I need not detail the particulars of a conversation
which was almost word for word the same as that which had passed in the Rue de la Pourpointerie;
suffice it that he made the same request with the same frank audacity, and that, granting it,
we were in a moment following hint up a similar staircase.

"This way, messieurs, this way!"  he said; as he had on that other night, while we groped our
way upwards in the dark.  He opened a door, and a light shone out; and we entered a room that
seemed, with its bare walls and rafters, its scanty stool and table and lamp, the very counterpart
of that other room.  In one wall appeared the dingy curtains of an alcove, closely drawn; and
the shutter stood open, until, at the child's request, expressed in the same words, I went
to it and closed it.

We were both so well muffled up and disguised, and the light of the lamp shining upwards so
completely distorted the features, that I had no fear of recognition, unless the King's voice
betrayed him.  But when he spoke, breaking the oppressive silence of the room, his tone was
as strange and hollow as I could wish.

"The shutter is closed," he said; "but the shutter of God's mercy is never closed!"

Still, knowing that this was the crucial moment, and that we should be detected now if at all,
I found it; an age before the voice behind the curtains answered "Amen!"  and yet another age
before the hidden speaker continued "Who are you?"

"The cure of St. Germain," Henry responded.

The man behind the curtains gasped, and they were for a moment violently agitated, as if a
hand seized them and let them go again. But I had reckoned that the unknown, after a pause
of horror, would suppose that he had heard amiss and continue his usual catechism.  And so
it proved.  In a voice that shook a little, he asked, "Whom do you bring to me?"

"A sinner," the King answered.

"What has he done?"

"He will tell you."

"I am listening," the unknown said.

The light in the basin flared up a little, casting dark shadows on the ceiling, and at the
same moment the shutter, which I had failed to fasten securely, fell open with a grinding sound.
One of the curtains swayed a little in the breeze, "I have robbed my master," I said, slowly.

"Of how much?"

"A hundred and twenty thousand crowns."

The bed shook until the boards creaked under it; but this time no hand grasped the curtains.
Instead, a strained voice--thick and coarse, yet differing from that muffled tone which we
had heard before--asked, "Who are you?"

"Jules Fauchet."

I waited.  The King, who understood nothing but had listened to my answers with eager attention,
and marked no less closely the agitation which they caused in the unknown, leant forward to
listen.  But the bed creaked no more; the curtain hung still; even the voice, which at last
issued from the curtains, was no more like the ordinary accents of a man than are those which
he utters in the paroxysms of epilepsy.  "Are you--sorry?"  the unknown muttered--involuntarily,
I think; hoping against hope; not daring to depart from a formula which had become second nature.
But I could fancy him clawing, as he spoke, at his choking throat.

France, however, had suffered too long at the hands of that race of men, and I had been too
lately vilified by them to feel much pity; and for answer I lifted a voice that to the quailing
wretch must have been the voice of doom.  "Sorry?"  I said grimly.  "I must be--or hang!  For
to-morrow the King examines his books, and the next day I--hang!"

The King's hand was on mine, to stop me before the last word was out; but his touch came too
late.  As it rang through the room one of the curtains before us was twitched aside, and a
face glared out, so ghastly and drawn and horror-stricken, that few would have known it for
that of the wealthy fermier, who had grown sleek and fat on the King's revenues.  I do not
know whether he knew us, or whether, on the contrary, he found this accusation, so precise,
so accurate, coming from an unknown source, still more terrible than if he had known us; but
on the instant he fell forward in a swoon.

"St. Gris!"  Henry cried, looking on the body with a shudder, "you have killed him, Grand Master!
It was true, was it?"

"Yes, sire," I answered.  "But he is not dead, I think."  And going to the window I whistled
for Maignan, who in a minute came to us.  He was not very willing to touch the man, but I bade
him lay him on the bed and loosen his clothes and throw water on his face; and presently M.
Fauchet began to recover.

I stepped a little aside that he might not see me, and accordingly the first person on whom
his eyes lighted was the King, who had laid aside his hat and cloak, and taken the terrified
and weeping child on his lap.  M. Fauchet stared at him awhile before he recognised him; but
at last the trembling man knew him, and tottering to his feet, threw himself on his knees,
looking years older than when I had last seen him in the street.

"Sire," he said faintly, "I will make restitution."

Henry looked at him gravely, and nodded.  "It is well," he said. "You are fortunate, M. Fauchet;
for had this come to my ears in any other way I could not have spared you.  You will render
your accounts and papers to M. de Sully to-morrow, and according as you are frank with him
you will be treated."

Fauchet thanked him with abject tears, and the King rose and prepared to leave.  But at the
door a thought struck him, and he turned.  "How long have you done this?"  he said, indicating
the room by a gesture, and speaking in a gentler tone.

"Three years, sire," the wretched man answered.

"And how much have you distributed?"

"Fifteen hundred crowns, sire."

The King cast an indescribable look at me, wherein amusement, scorn, and astonishment were
all blended.  "St. Gris!  man!"  he said, shrugging his shoulders and drawing in his breath
sharply, "you think God is as easily duped as the King!  I wish I could think so."

He did not speak again until we were half-way back to the Louvre; when he opened his mouth
to announce his intention of rewarding me with a tithe of the money recovered.  It was duly
paid to me, and I bought with it part of the outlying lands of Villebon--those, I mean, which
extend towards Chartres.  The rest of the money, notwithstanding all my efforts, was wasted
here and there, Pimentel winning thirty crowns of the King that year.  But the discovery led
to others of a similar character, and eventually set me on the track of a greater offender,
M. l'Argentier, whom I brought to justice a few months later.

IX.

THE MAID OF HONOUR.

In accordance with my custom I gave an entertainment on the last day of this year to the King
and Queen; who came to the Arsenal with a numerous train, and found the diversions I had provided
so much to their taste that they did not leave until I was half dead with fatigue, and like
to be killed with complaisance.  Though this was not the most splendid entertainment I gave
that year, it had the good fortune to please; and in a different and less agreeable fashion
is recalled to my memory by a peculiar chain of events, whereof the first link came under my
eyes during its progress.

I have mentioned in an earlier part of these memoirs, a Portuguese adventurer who, about this
time, gained large sums from the Court at play, and more than once compelled the King to have
recourse to me.  I had the worst opinion of this man, and did not scruple to express it on
several occasions; and this the more, as his presumption fell little short of his knavery,
while he treated those whom he robbed with as much arrogance as if to play with him were an
honour.  Holding this view of him, I was far from pleased when I discovered that the King had
brought him to my house; but the feeling, though sufficiently strong, sank to nothing beside
the indignation and disgust which I experienced when, the company having fallen to cards after
supper, I found that the Queen had sat down with him to primero.

It did not lessen my annoyance, that I had, after my usual fashion, furnished the Queen with
a purse for her sport; and in this way found myself reduced to stand by and see my good money
pass into the clutches of this knave.  Under the circumstances, and in my own house, I could
do nothing; nevertheless, the table at which they sat possessed so strong a fascination for
me that I several times caught myself staring at it more closely than was polite; and as to
disgust at the unseemliness of such companionship was added vexation at my own loss, I might
have gone farther towards betraying my feelings if a casual glance aside had not disclosed
to me the fact that I did not stand alone in my dissatisfaction; but that, frivolous as the
majority of the courtiers were, there was one at least among those present who viewed this
particular game with distaste.

This person stood near the door, and fancying himself secured from observation, either by his
position or his insignificance, was glowering on the pair in a manner that at another time
must have cost him a rebuke.  As it was, I found something friendly, as well as curious, in
his fixed frown; and ignorant of his name, though I knew him by sight, wondered both who he
was and what was the cause of his preoccupation.

On the one point I had no difficulty in satisfying myself. Boisrueil, who presently passed,
told me that his name was Vallon; that he belonged to a poor but old family in the Cotentin,
and that he had been only three months at court.

"Making his fortune, I suppose?"  I said grimly.  "He games?"

"No, your excellency."

"Is in debt?"

"Not to my knowledge."

"To whom does he pay his court, then?"

"To the King."

"And the Queen?"

"Not particularly--as far as I know, at least.  But if you wish to know more, M. le Duc," Boisrueil
continued, "I will--"

"No, no," I said peevishly.  The Queen had just handed her last rouleau across the table, and
was still playing.  "Go, man, about your business; I don't want to spend the evening gossiping
with you."

He went, and I dismissed the young fellow from my mind; only to find him five minutes later
at my elbow.  To youth and good looks he added a modest bearing that did not fail to enhance
them and commend him to me; the majority of the young sparks of the day being wiser than their
fathers.  But I confess that I was not prepared for the stammering embarrassment with which
he addressed me--nor, indeed, to be addressed by him at all.

"M. de Sully," he said, in a tone of emotion, "I beg you to pardon me. Do the Caucus then broke up
some confusion, as the Time, having removed his men in the proceedings,
was unable lips to condescend the vote of thanks to a Professor jambes,
who left the hall in a state at customary excitement during consequence.
  But curiosity, playing
the part of his advocate, found so much that was candid in his manner that I hesitated.  "What
is it?"  I said stiffly.

"A very slight, if a very unusual, one," he muttered.  "M. le Duc, I only want you to--"

"To?"  for he stopped and seemed unable to go on.

"To supplement the present you have given to the Queen with this," he blurted out, his face
pale with emotion; and he stealthily held out to me a green silk purse, through the meshes
of which I saw the glint of gold.  "M. de Sully," he continued, observing my hasty movement,
"do not be offended!  I know that you have done all that hospitality required.  But I see that
the Queen has already lost your gift, and that--"

"She is playing on credit?"

"Yes, Monsieur."

He said it simply, and as he spoke, he again pressed on me the purse. I took and weighed it,
and calculated at a guess that it held fifty crowns.  The sum astonished me.  "Why, man," I
said, "you are not mad enough to be in love with her Majesty?"

"No!"  he cried, vehemently, yet with a gleam of humour in his eye.  "I swear that it is not
so.  If you will do me this favour--"

It was a mad impulse that took me, but I nodded, and resolving to make good the money out of
my own pocket should the case, when all was clear, seem to demand it, I went straight from
him, and, crossing the floor, laid the purse near her Majesty's hand, with a polite word of
regret that fortune had used her so ill, and a hope that this might be the means of recruiting
her forces.

