"You heard of Fritters?" and Arthur nodded. "He arrived, and the Columbia College crowd started
him off with a grand banquet. He's an Oxford historian with a new recipe for cooking history.
The Columbia professor who stood sponsor for him at the banquet told the world that Fritters
would show how English government worked among the Irish, and how impossible is the Anglo-Saxon
idea among peoples in whom barbarism does not die with the appearance and advance of civilization.
He touched up the elegant parades and genial shindys of St. Patrick's Day as 'inexplicable
dumb shows and noise,'--see Hamlet's address to the players--and hoped the banks of our glorious
Hudson would never witness the bloody rows peculiar to the banks of the immortal Boyne. Then
he dragged in the Senator."

"What's his little game?" Arthur asked.

"Scientific ridicule ... the press plays to the galleries, and Fritters to the boxes ... it's
a part of the general scheme ... I tell you there's going to be fun galore this winter ...
and the man in London is at the root of the deviltry."

"What's to be done?"

"If we only knew," the Senator groaned. "If we could only get them under our fists, in a fair
and square tussle!"

"I think the hinge of the Livingstone plan is Sister Claire, the escaped nun," Grahame said
thoughtfully. "She's the star of the combination, appeals to the true blue church-member with
descriptions of the horrors of convents. Her book is out, and you'll find a copy waiting for
you at home. Dime novels are prayer-books beside it. French novels are virtuous compared with
it. It is raising an awful row. On the strength of it McMeeter has begun an enterprise for
the relief of imprisoned nuns--to rescue them--house them for a time, and see them safely married.
Sister Claire is to be matron of the house of escaped nuns. No one doubts her experience. Now
isn't that McMeeter all over? But see the book, the Confessions of an Escaped Nun."

"You think she's the hinge of the great scheme?"

"She has the public eye and ear," said Grahame, thinking out his own theory as he talked. "Her
book is the book of the hour ... reviewed by the press ... the theme of pulpits ... the text
of speeches galore ... common workmen thump one another over it at the bench. Now all the others,
Bradford, Fritters, the Columbia professors, Bitterkin and his followers, seem to play second
to her book. They keep away from her society, yet her strongest backing is from them. You know
what I mean. It has occurred to me that if we got her history ... it must be pretty savory
... and printed it ... traced her connection with the Livingstone crowd ... it would be quite
a black eye for the Honorable Quincy."

"By George, but you've struck it," cried Arthur waking up to the situation. "If she's the hinge,
she's the party to strike at. Tell me, what became of Curran?"

"Lucky thought," shouted Grahame. "He's in town yet. The very man for us."

"I'm going to have it out with Livingstone," said Arthur, with a clear vision of an English
prison and the patient woman who watched its walls from a window in the town. "In fact, I must
have it out with Livingstone. He's good game, and I'd like to bring him back from England in
a bag. Perhaps Sister Claire may be able to provide the bag."

"Hands on it," said Grahame, and they touched palms over the table, while the Senator broke
into smiles. He had unlimited faith in his nephew.

"Lord Conny gave me an outline of Livingstone's program before I left. He's worried over the
effect it's going to have on his alliance scheme, and he cursed the Minister sincerely. He'll
help us. Let's begin with Sister Claire in the hope of bagging the whole crowd. Let Curran
hunt up her history. Above all let him get evidence that Livingstone provides the money for
her enterprise."

Having come to a conclusion on this important matter, they dropped into more personal topics.

"Strangely enough," said Grahame cheerfully, "my own destiny is mixed up with this whole business.
The bulwark of Livingstone in one quarter is John Everard. I am wooing, in the hope of winning,
my future father-in-law."

"He's very dead," the Senator thought.

"The art of wooing a father-in-law!--what an art!" murmured Grahame. "The mother-in-law is
easy. She wishes her daughter married. Papa doesn't. At least in this case, with a girl like Mona."

"Has Everard anything against you?"

"A whole litany of crimes."

"What's wrong with Everard?"

"He was born the night of the first big wind, and he has had it in for the whole world ever
since. He's perverse. Nothing but another big wind will turn him round."

Seeing Arthur puzzled over these allusions, Grahame explained.

"Think of such a man having children like the twins, little lumps of sweetness ... like Louis
... heavens! if I live to be the father of such a boy, life will be complete ... like my Mona
... oh!"

He stalked about the room throwing himself into poses of ecstasy and adoration before an imaginary
goddess to the delight of the Senator.

"I've been there myself," Arthur commented unmoved. "To the question: how do you hope to woo
and win Everard?"

"First, by my book. It's the story of just such a fool as he: a chap who wears the American
flag in bed and waves it at his meals, as a nightgown and a napkin; then, he is a religious
man of the kind that finds no religion to his liking, and would start one of his own if he
thought it would pay; finally, he is a purist in politics, believes in blue glass, drinks ten
glasses of filtered water a day, which makes him as blue as the glass, wears paper collars,
and won't let his son be a monk because there are too many in the world. Now, Everard will
laugh himself weak over this character. He's so perverse that he will never see himself in
the mirror which I have provided."

"Rather risky, I should think."

"But that's not all," Grahame went on, "since you are kind enough to listen. I'm going to wave
the American flag, eat it, sing it, for the next year, myself. Attend: the descendants of the
Pilgrim Fathers are going to sit on what is left of Plymouth Rock next spring, and make speeches
and read poems, and eat banquets. I am to be invited to sing, to read the poem. Vandervelt
is to see to that. Think of it, a wild Irishman, an exile, a conspirator against the British
Crown, a subject of the Pope, reading or singing the praises of the pilgrims, the grim pilgrims.
Turn in your grave, Cotton Mather, as my melodious verses harrow your ears."

"Will that impress John Everard?"

"Or give him a fatal fit. The book and the poem ought to do the business. He can't resist.
'Never was Everard in this humor wooed, never was Everard in this humor won.' Oh, that Shakespeare
had known an Everard, and embalmed him like a fly in the everlasting amber of his verse. But
should these things fail, I have another matter. While Everard rips up Church and priest and
doctrine at his pleasure, he has one devotion which none may take liberties with. He swears
by the nuns. He is foaming at the mouth over the injury and insult offered them by the Confessions
of Sister Claire. We expose this clever woman. Picture me, then, the despised suitor, after
having pleased him by my book, and astounded him with my poem, and mesmerized him with the
exposure of Claire, standing before him with silent lips but eyes speaking: I want your daughter.
Can even this perverse man deny me? Don't you think I have a chance?"

"Not with Everard," said the Senator solemnly. "He's simply coke."

"You should write a book, Doyle, on the art of wooing a father-in-law, and explain what you
have left out here: how to get away with the dog."

"Before marriage," said the ready wit, "the girl looks after the dog; after marriage the dog
can be trained to bite the father-in-law."

Arthur found the Confessions of an Escaped Nun interesting reading from many points of view,
and spent the next three days analyzing the book of the hour. His sympathy for convent life
equaled his understanding of it. He had come to understand and like Sister Mary Magdalene,
in spite of a prejudice against her costume; but the motive and spirit of the life she led
were as yet beyond him. Nevertheless, he could see how earnestly the Confessions lied about
what it pretended to expose. The smell of the indecent and venal informer exhaled from the
pages. The vital feature, however, lay in the revelation of Sister Claire's character, between
the lines. Beneath the vulgarity and obscenity, poorly veiled in a mock-modest verbiage, pulsated
a burning sensuality reaching the horror of mania. A well-set trap would have easy work in
catching the feet of a woman related to the nymphs. Small wonder that the Livingstone party
kept her afar off from their perfumed and reputable society while she did her nasty work. The
book must have been oil to that conflagration raging among the Irish. The abuse of the press,
the criticism of their friends, the reproaches of their own, the hostility of the government,
the rage and grief at the failure of their hopes, the plans to annoy and cripple them, scorched
indeed their sensitive natures; but the book of the Escaped Nun, defiling their holy ones so
shamelessly, ate like acid into their hearts. Louis came in, when he had completed his analysis
of the volume, and begun to think up a plan of action. The lad fingered the book gingerly,
and said timidly:

"I'm going to see ... I have an appointment with this terrible woman for to-morrow afternoon.
In fact, I saw her this morning. I went to her office with Sister Mary Magdalen."

"Of course the good Sister has a scheme to convert the poor thing!" Arthur said lightly, concealing
his delight and surprise under a pretense of indifference.

"Well, yes," and the lad laughed and blushed. "And she may succeed too. The greater the sin
the deeper the repentance. The unfortunate woman----"

"Who is making a fortune on her book by the way----"

"----received us very kindly. Sister Magdalen had been corresponding with her. She wept in
admitting that her fall seemed beyond hope. She felt so tangled in her own sins that she knew
no way to get out of them. Really, she was so sincere. When we were leaving she begged me to
call again, and as I have to return to the seminary Monday I named to-morrow afternoon."

"You may then have the honor of converting her."

"It would be an honor," Louis replied stoutly.

"Try it," said Arthur after thinking the matter over. "I know what force your arguments will
have with her. And if you don't object I'll stay ... by the way, where is her office?"

"In a quiet business building on Bleecker Street, near Broadway."

"If you don't mind I'll stay outside in the hall, and rush in to act as altar-boy, when she
agrees to 'vert."

"I'm going for all your ridicule, Arthur."

"No objection, but keep a cool head, and bear in mind that I am in the hall outside."

He suspected the motive of Sister Claire, both in making this appointment, and in playing at
conversion with Sister Magdalen. Perhaps it might prove the right sort of trap for her cunning
feet. He doubted the propriety of exposing Louis to the fangs of the beast, and for a moment
he thought to warn him of the danger. But he had no right to interfere in Sister Magdalen's
affair, and if a beginning had to be made this adventure could be used effectively. He forgot
the affair within the hour, in the business of hunting up Curran.

He had a double reason for seeking the detective. Besides the task of ferreting out the record
of Sister Claire, he wished to get news of the Endicotts. Aunt Lois had slipped out of life
two days after her return from Europe. The one heart that loved him truly beat for him no more.
By this time her vengeance must have fallen, and Sonia, learning the full extent of her punishment,
must now be writhing under a second humiliation and disappointment. He did not care to see
her anguish, but he did care to hear of the new effort that would undoubtedly be made to find
the lost husband. Curran would know. He met him that afternoon on the street near his own house.

"Yes, I'm back in the old business," he said proudly; "the trip home so freshened me that I
feel like myself again. Besides, I have my own home, here it is, and my wife lives with me.
Perhaps you have heard of her, La Belle Colette."

"And seen her too ... a beautiful and artistic dancer."

"You must come in now and meet her. She is a trifle wild, you know, and once she took to drink;
but she's a fine girl, a real good fellow, and worth twenty like me. Come right in, and we'll
talk business later."

La Belle Colette! The dancer at a cheap seaside resort! The wild creature who drank and did
things! This shrewd, hard fellow, who faced death as others faced a wind, was deeply in love
and happy in her companionship. What standard of womanhood and wifehood remained to such men?
However, his wonder ceased when he had bowed to La Belle Colette in her own parlor, heard her
sweet voice, and looked into the most entrancing eyes ever owned by a woman, soft, fiery, tender,
glad, candid eyes. He recalled the dancer, leaping like a flame about the stage. In the plainer
home garments he recognized the grace, quickness, and gaiety of the artist. Her charm won him
at once, the spell which her rare kind have ever been able to cast about the hearts of men.
He understood why the flinty detective should be in love with his wife at times, but not why
he should continue in that state. She served them with wine and cigars, rolled a cigarette
for herself, chatted with the ease and chumminess of a good fellow, and treated Arthur with
tenderness.

"Richard has told me so much of you," she explained.

"I have so admired your exquisite art," he replied, "that we are already friends."

"Que vous êtes bien gentil," she murmured, and her tone would have caressed the wrinkles out
of the heart of old age.

"Yes, I'm back at the old game," said Curran, when they got away from pleasantry. "I'm chasing
after Tom Jones. It's more desperate than ever. His old aunt died some days back, and left
Tom's wife a dollar, and Tom's son another dollar."

"I can fancy her," said Colette with a laugh, "repeating to herself that magic phrase, two
dollars, for hours and hours. Hereafter she will get weak at sight of the figure two, and things
that go in twos, like married people, she will hate."

"How easy to see that you are French, Colette," said Arthur, as a compliment. She threw him
a kiss from her pretty fingers, and gave a sidelong look at Curran.

"There's a devil in her," Arthur thought.

"The will was very correct and very sound," resumed the detective. "No hope in a contest if
they thought of such a thing among the West ... the Jones'. The heirs took pity on her, and
gave her a lump for consolation. She took it and cursed them for their kindness. Her rage was
something to see. She is going to use that lump, somewhere about twenty-five thousand, I think,
to find her accursed Tom. How do I know? That's part of the prize for me if I catch up with
Tom Jones within three years. And I draw a salary and expenses all the time. You should have
seen Mrs. Tom the day I went to see her. Colette," with a smile for his wife, "your worst trouble
with a manager was a summer breeze to it. You're a white-winged angel in your tempers compared
with Mrs. Tom Jones. Her language concerning the aunt and the vanished nephew was wonderful.
I tried to remember it, and I couldn't."

"I can see her, I can feel with her," cried La Belle Colette, jumping to her feet, and rushing
through a pantomime of fiendish rage, which made the men laugh to exhaustion. As she sat down
she said with emphasis, "She must find him, and through you. I shall help, and so will our
friend Dillon. It's an outrage for any man to leave a woman in such a scrape ... for a mere
trifle."

"She has her consolations," said the detective; "but the devil in her is not good-natured like
the devil in you, Colette. She wants to get hold of Tom and cut him in little bits for what
he has made her suffer."

"Did you get out any plans?" said Arthur.

"One. Look for him between here and Boston. That's my wife's idea. Tom Jones was not clever,
but she says ... Say it yourself, my dear."

"Rage and disappointment, or any other strong feeling," said the woman sharply, with strong
puffs at her cigarette, "turns a fool into a wise man for a minute. It would be just like this
fool to have a brilliant interval while he dreamed of murdering his clever wife. Then he hit
upon a scheme to cheat the detectives. It's easy, if you know how stupid they are, except Dick.
Tom Jones is here, on his own soil. He was not going to run away with a million and try to
spend it in the desert of Sahara. He's here, or in Boston, enjoying the sight of his wife stewing
in poverty. It would be just like the sneak to do her that turn."

She looked wickedly at Arthur. What a face! Thin, broad, yet finely proportioned, with short,
flaxen locks framing it, delicate eyebrows marking the brow and emphasizing the beautiful eyes.
A woman to be feared, an evil spirit in some of her moods.

"You tried the same plan," Arthur began----

"But he had no partner to sharpen his wits," she interrupted. Arthur bowed.

"That makes all the difference in the world," he said sincerely. "Let me hope that you will
give your husband some hints in a case which I am going to give him."

He described the career of Sister Claire briefly, and expressed the wish to learn as much as
possible of her earlier history. The Currans laughed.

"I had that job before," said the detective. "If the Jones case were only half a hundred times
harder I might be happy. Her past is unknown except that she has been put out of many convents.
I never looked up her birthplace or her relatives. Her name is Kate Kerrigan along with ten
other names. She drinks a little, and just now holds a fine stake in New York ... There's the
whole of it."

"Not much to build upon, if one wished to worry Claire, or other people."

"Depend upon it," Colette broke in, "that Kate Kerrigan has a pretty history behind her. I'll
bet she was an actress once. I've seen her stage poses ... then her name, catchy ... and the
way she rolls her eyes and looks at that congregation of elders, and deacons and female saints,
when she sets them shivering over the nastiness that's coming."

Curran glanced at her with a look of inquiry. She sat on the window-sill like a bird, watching
the street without, half listening to the men within. Arthur made a close study of the weird
creature, sure that a strain of madness ran in her blood. Her looks and acts had the grace
of a wild nature, which purrs, and kills, and purrs again. Quiet and dreamy this hour, in her
dances she seemed half mad with vitality.

"Tell him what you learned about her," said Curran, and then to Arthur, "She can do a little
work herself, and likes it."

"To hunt a poor soul down, never!" she cried. "But when a mean thing is hiding what every one
has a right to know, I like to tear the truth out of her ... like your case of Tom Jones. Sister
Claire is downright mean. Maybe she can't help it. But I know the nuns, and they're God's own
children. She knows it too, but, just for the sake of money, she's lying night and day against
them, and against her own conscience. There's a devil in her. I could do a thing like that
for deviltry, and I could pull a load of money out of her backers, not for the money, but for
deviltry too, to skin a miser like McMeeter, and a dandy like Bradford. And she's just skinning
them, to the last cent."

She took a fit of laughing, then, over the embarrassment of Sister Claire's chief supporters.

"Here's what I know about her," she went on. "The museum fakirs are worshiping her as a wonderful
success. They seem to feel by instinct that she's one of themselves, but a genius. They have
a lot of fairy stories about her, but here's the truth: Bishop Bradford and Erastus McMeeter
are her backers. The Bishop plays high society for her, and the bawler looks after the mob.
She gets fifty per cent. of everything, and they take all the risks. Her book, I know you read
it, chock-full of lies, thrilling lies, for the brothers and the sisters who can't read French
novels in public--well, she owns the whole thing and gets all the receipts except a beggar's
ten per cent., thrown to the publishers ... and they're the crack publishers of the town, the
Hoppertons ... but all the same they dassent let their names go on the title-page ... they
had that much shame ... so old Johnson, whom nobody knows, is printer and publisher. The book
is selling like peanuts. There's more than one way of selling your soul to the devil."

After this surprising remark, uttered without a smile, she looked out of the window sadly,
while Curran chuckled with delight.

"It takes the woman to measure the woman," he said. Arthur was delighted at this information.

"I wish you would learn some more about her, Mrs. Curran."

She mimicked the formal name in dumb show.

"Well, La Belle Colette, then," he said laughing. She came over to him and sat on the arm of
his chair, her beautiful eyes fixed on his with an expression well understood by both the men.

"You are going to hunt that dreadful creature down," said she. "I won't help you. What do you
know about her motives? She may have good reason for playing the part ... she may have suffered?"

"One must protect his own," replied Arthur grimly.

"What are we all but wolves that eat one another?--lambs by day, wolves in the night. We all
play our part----"

"All the world's a stage, of course----"

"Even you are playing a part," with sudden violence. "I have studied you, young man, since
you came in. Lemme read your palm, and tell you."

She held his hand long, then tossed it aside with petulance, parted his hair and peered into
his face, passed her hands lightly over his head for the prominences, dashed unexpected tears
from her eyes, and then said with decision:

"There are two of you in there," tapping his chest. "I can't tell why, but I can read, or feel
one man, and outside I see another."

"Your instinct is correct," said Arthur seriously. "I have long been aware of the same fact,
peculiar and painful. But for a long time the outside man has had the advantage. Now with regard
to this Sister Claire, not to change the subject too suddenly----"

Colette deserted his chair, and went to her husband. She had lost interest in the matter and
would not open her lips again. The men discussed the search for Endicott, and the inquiry into
the history of Sister Claire, while the dancer grew drowsy after the fashion of a child, her
eyes became misty, her red lips pouted, her voice drawled faint and complaining music in whispers,
and Curran looked often and long at her while he talked. Arthur went away debating with himself.
His mind had developed the habit of reminiscence. Colette reminded him of a face, which he
had seen ... no, not a face but a voice ... or was it a manner?... or was it her look, which
seemed intimate, as of earlier acquaintance?... what was it? It eluded him however. He felt
happy and satisfied, now that he had set Curran on the track of the unclean beast.

CHAPTER XX.

THE ESCAPED NUN.

Sister Claire sat in her office the next afternoon awaiting Louis as the gorged spider awaits
the fly, with desire indeed, but without anxiety. Her office consisted of three rooms, opening
into one another within, each connected by doors with the hall without. A solemn youth kept
guard in the antechamber, a bilious lad whose feverish imagination enshrined Sister Claire
and McMeeter on the same altar, and fed its fires on the promises of the worthy pair some day
to send him on a mission as glorious as their own. The furnishings had the severe simplicity
of the convent. The brilliant costume of the woman riveted the eye by the very dulness of her
surroundings. At close view her beauty seemed more spiritual than in her public appearances.
The heavy eyebrows were a blemish indeed, but like a beauty-spot emphasized the melting eyes
and the peachy skin.

The creamy habit of the nun and the white coif about her head left only her oval face and her
lovely hands visible; but what a revelation were these of loveliness and grace! One glance
at her tender face and the little hands would have scattered to the winds the slanders of Colette.
Success had thrilled but not coarsened the escaped nun. As Grahame had surmised, she was now
the hinge of Livingstone's scheme. The success of her book and the popularity of her lectures,
together with her discreet behavior, had given her immense influence with her supporters and
with the leaders. Their money poured into her lap. She did not need it while her book sold
and her lectures were crowded.

The office saw come and go the most distinguished visitors. Even the English historian did
not begin to compare with her in glory, and so far his lectures had not been well attended.
Thinking of many things with deep pride, she remembered that adversity had divided the leisure
of her table with prosperity. Hence, she could not help wondering how long this fine success
would last. Her peculiar fate demanded an end to it sometime. As if in answer to her question,
the solemn youth in the antechamber knocked at her door, and announced with decorum Mr. Richard
Curran.

"I have made the inquiries you wanted," Curran said, as he took a chair at her bidding. "Young
Everard is a special pet of Dillon. This boy is the apple of his eye. And Everard, the father,
is an ardent supporter of Livingstone. I think you had better drop this affair, if you would
escape a tangle--a nasty tangle."

"If the boy is willing, where's the tangle, Mr. Curran?" she answered placidly.

"Well, you know more about the thing than I can tell you," he said, as if worried. "You know
them all. But I can't help warning you against this Dillon. If you lay your hand on anything
of his, I'm of opinion that this country will not be big enough for you and him at the same time."

"I shall get him also, and that'll put an end to his enmity. He's a fine fellow. He's on my
track, but you'll see how enchantment will put him off it. Now, don't grumble. I'll be as tender
and sweet with the boy as a siren. You will come in only when I feel that the spell doesn't
work. Rely on me to do the prudent thing."

That he did not rely on her his expression showed clearly.

"You have made a great hit in this city, Sister Claire," he began----

"And you think I am about to ruin my chances of a fortune?" she interrupted. "Well, I am willing
to take the risk, and you have nothing to say about it. You know your part. Go into the next
room, and wait for your cue. I'll bet any sum that you'll never get the cue. If you do, be
sure to make a quick entrance."

He looked long at her and sighed, but made no pretense to move. She rose, and pointed to the
third room of the suite. Sheepishly, moodily, in silent protest, he obeyed the gesture and
went out humbly. Before that look the brave detective surrendered like a slave to his chains.
The door had hardly closed behind him, when the office-boy solemnly announced Louis, and at
a sign from Sister Claire ushered in the friend of Arthur Dillon. She received him with downcast
eyes, standing at a little distance. With a whispered welcome and a drooping head, she pointed
to a seat. Louis sat down nervous and overawed, wishing that he had never undertaken this impossible
and depressing task. Who was he to be dealing with such a character as this dubious and disreputable
woman?

"I feared you would not come," she began in a very low tone. "I feared you would misunderstand
... what can one like you understand of sin and misery?... but thank Heaven for your courage
... I may yet owe to you my salvation!"

"I was afraid," said the lad frankly, gladdened by her cunning words. "I don't know of what
... but I suppose it was distrust of myself. If I can be of any service to you how glad I shall
be!"

"Oh, you can, you can," she murmured, turning her beautiful eyes on him. Her voice failed her,
and she had to struggle with her sobs.

"What do you think I can do for you?" he asked, to relieve the suspense.

"I shall tell you that later," she replied, and almost burst out laughing. "It will be simple
and easy for you, but no one else can satisfy me. We are alone. I must tell you my story, that
you may be the better able to understand the service which I shall ask of you. It is a short
story, but terrible ... especially to one like you ... promise me that you will not shrink,
that you will not despise me----"

"I have no right to despise you," said Louis, catching his breath.

She bowed her head to hide a smile, and appeared to be irresolute for a moment. Then with sudden,
and even violent, resolve, she drew a chair to his side, and began the history of her wretched
career. Her position was such, that to see her face he had to turn his head; but her delicate
hands rested on the arm of his chair, clasped now, and again twisted with anguish, and then
stretched out with upward palms appealing for pity, or drooping in despair. She could see his
profile, and watch the growing uneasiness, the shame of innocence brought face to face with
dirt unspeakable, the mortal terror of a pure boy in the presence of Phryne. With this sport
Sister Claire had been long familiar.

Her caressing voice and deep sorrow stripped the tale of half its vileness. At times her voice
fell to a breath. Then she bent towards him humbly, and a perfume swept over him like a breeze
from the tropics. The tale turned him to stone. Sister Claire undoubtedly drew upon her imagination
and her reading for the facts, since it rarely falls to the lot of one woman to sound all the
depths of depravity. Louis had little nonsense in his character. At first his horror urged
him to fly from the place, but whenever the tale aroused this feeling in him, the cunning creature
broke forth into a strain of penitence so sweet and touching that he had not the heart to desert
her. At the last she fell upon her knees and buried her face in his lap, crying out:

"If you do not hate me now ... after all this ... then take pity on me."

       *       *       *       *       *

Arthur sauntered into the hall outside the office of Sister Claire about half-past four. He
had forgotten the momentous interview which bid so fair to end in the conversion of the escaped
nun; also his declaration to be within hailing distance in case of necessity. In a lucky moment,
however, the thought of Sister Mary Magdalen and her rainbow enterprise, so foolish, so incredible,
came to his mind, and sent him in haste to the rescue of his friend. Had Louis kept his engagement
and received the vows and the confession of the audacious tool of Livingstone? No sound came
from the office. It would hardly do for him to make inquiry.

He observed that Sister Claire's office formed a suite of three rooms. The door of the first
looked like the main entrance. It had the appearance of use, and within he heard the cough
of the solemn office-boy. A faint murmur came from the second room. This must be the private
sanctum of the spider; this murmur might be the spider's enchantment over the fly. What should
the third room be? The trap? He turned the knob and entered swiftly and silently, much to the
detective's surprise and his own.

"I had no idea that door was unlocked," said Curran helplessly.

"Nor I. Who's within? My friend, young Everard?"

"Don't know. She shoved me in here to wait until some visitor departed. Then we are to consider
a proposition I made her," said the calm detective.

"So you have made a beginning? That's good. Don't stir. Perhaps it is as well that you are
here. Let me discover who is in here with the good sister."

"I can go to the first room, the front office, and inquire," said Curran.

"Never mind."

He could hear no words, only the low tones of the woman speaking; until of a sudden the strong,
manly voice of Louis, but subdued by emotion, husky and uncertain, rose in answer to her passionate
outburst.

"He's inside ... my young man ... hopes to convert her," Arthur whispered to Curran, and they
laughed together in silence. "Now I have my own suspicion as to her motive in luring the boy
here. If he goes as he came, why I'm wrong perhaps. If there's a rumpus, I may have her little
feet in the right sort of a trap, and so save you labor, and the rest of us money. If anything
happens, Curran, leave the situation to me. I'm anxious for a close acquaintance with Sister
Claire."

Curran sat as comfortably, to the eye, as if in his own house entertaining his friend Dillon.
The latter occasionally made the very natural reflection that this brave and skilful man lay
in the trap of just such a creature as Sister Claire. Suddenly there came a burst of sound
from the next room, exclamations, the hurrying of feet, the crash of a chair, and the trying
of the doors. A frenzied hand shook the knob of the door at which Arthur was looking with a
satisfied smile.

"Locked in?" he said to Curran, who nodded in a dazed way.

Then some kind of a struggle began on the other side of that door. Arthur stood there like
a cat ready to pounce on the foolish mouse, and the detective glared at him like a surly dog
eager to rend him, but afraid. They could hear smothered calls for help in a woman's voice.

"If she knew how near the cat is," Arthur remarked patiently.

At last the key clicked in the lock, the door half opened, and as Arthur pushed it inwards
Sister Claire flung herself away from it, and gasped feebly for help. She was hanging like
a tiger to Louis, who in a gentle way tried to shake her hands and arms from his neck. The
young fellow's face bore the frightful look of a terrified child struggling for life against
hopeless odds--mingled despair and pain. Arthur remained quietly in the entrance, and the detective
glared over his shoulder warningly at Claire. At sight of the man who stood there, she would
have shrieked in her horror and fright, but that sound died away in her throat. She loosened
her grip, and stood staring a moment, then swiftly and meaningly began to arrange her disordered
clothing. Louis made a dash for the door, seeing only a way of escape and not recognizing his
friend. Arthur shook him.

"Ah, you will go converting before your time," he said gayly.

"Oh, Arthur, thank God----" the lad stammered.

"Seize him," Claire began to shriek, very cautiously however. "Hold him, gentlemen. Get the
police. He is an emissary of the papists----"

"Let me go," Louis cried in anguish.

"Steady all round," Arthur answered with a laugh. "Sister Claire, if you want the police raise
your voice. One harlot more on the Island will not matter. Louis, get your nerve, man. Did
I not tell you I would be in the hall? Go home, and leave me to deal with this perfect lady.
Look after him," he flung at Curran, and closed the door on them, quite happy at the result
of Sister Magdalen's scheme of conversion.

He did not see the gesture from Curran which warned Sister Claire to make terms in a hurry
with this dangerous young man. The fury stood at the far end of the office, burning with rage
and uncertainty. Having fallen into her own trap, she knew not what to do. The situation had
found its master. Arthur Dillon evidently took great pleasure in this climax of her making.
He looked at her for a moment as one might at a wild animal of a new species. The room had
been darkened so that one could not see distinctly. He knew that trick too. Her beauty improved
upon acquaintance. For the second time her face reminded him that they had met before, and
he considered the point for an instant. What did it matter just then? She had fallen into his
hands, and must be disposed of. Pointing to a chair he sat down affably, his manner making
his thought quite plain. She remained standing.

"You may be very tired before our little talk is concluded----"

"Am I to receive your insults as well as your agent's?" she interrupted.

"Now, now, Sister Claire, this will never do. You have been acting" ... he looked at his watch
... "since four o'clock. The play is over. We are in real life again. Talk sense. Since Everard
failed to convert you, and you to convert Everard, try the arts of Cleopatra on me. Or, let
me convince you that you have made a blunder----"

"I do not wish to listen you," she snapped. "I will not be insulted a second time."

"Who could insult the author of the Confessions? You are beyond insult, Claire. I have read
your book with the deepest interest. I have read you between every line, which cannot be said
of most of your readers. I am not going to waste any words on you. I am going to give you an
alternative, which will do duty until I find rope enough to hang you as high as Jack Sheppard.
You know what you are, and so do I. The friends of this young man who fell so nicely into your
claws will be anxious to keep his adventure with you very quiet."

A light leaped into her eyes. She had feared that outside, in the hall, this man might have
his hirelings ready to do her mischief, that some dreadful plot had come to a head which meant
her ruin. Light began to dawn upon her. He laughed at her thoughts.

"One does not care to make public an adventure with such a woman as you," said he affably.
"A young man like that too. It would be fatal for him. Therefore, you are to say nothing about
it. You are not eager to talk about your failure ... Cleopatra blushes for your failure ...
but a heedless tongue and a bitter feeling often get the better of sense. If you remain silent,
so shall I."

"Very generous," she answered calmly, coming back to her natural coolness and audacity. "As
you have all to lose, and I have all to gain by a description of the trap set for me by your
unclean emissary, your proposition won't go. I shall place the matter before my friends, and
before the public, when I find it agreeable."

"When!" he mocked. "You know by this time that you are playing a losing game, Claire. If you
don't know it, then you are not smart enough for the game. Apart from that, remember one thing:
when you speak I shall whisper the truth to the excitable people whom your dirty book is harrying
now."

"I am not afraid of whispers, quite used to them in fact," she drawled, as if mimicking him.

"I see you are not smart enough for the game," and the remark startled her. "You can see no
possible results from that whisper. Did you ever hear of Jezebel and her fate? Oh, you recall
how the dogs worried her bones, do you? So far your evil work has been confined to glittering
generalities. To-day you took a new tack. Now you must answer to me. Let it once become known
that you tried to defile the innocent, to work harm to one of mine, and you may suffer the
fate of the unclean things to which you belong by nature. The mob kills without delicacy. It
will tear you as the dogs tore the painted Jezebel."

"You are threatening me," she stammered with a show of pride.

"No. That would be a waste of time. I am warning you. You have still the form of a woman, therefore
I give you a chance. You are at the end of your rope. Stretch it further, and it may become
the noose to hang you. You have defiled with your touch one whom I love. He kept his innocence,
so I let it pass. But a rat like you must be destroyed. Very soon too. We are not going to
stand your abominations, even if men like Livingstone and Bradford encourage you. I am giving
you a chance. What do you say? Have I your promise to be silent?"

"You have," she replied brokenly.

He looked at her surprised. The mask of her brazen audacity remained, but some feeling had
overpowered her, and she began to weep like any woman in silent humiliation. He left her without
a word, knowing enough of her sex to respect this inexplicable grief, and to wait for a more
favorable time to improve his acquaintance. "Sonia's mate," he said to himself as he reached
the street. The phrase never left him from that day, and became a prophecy of woe afterwards.
He writhed as he saw how nearly the honor and happiness of Louis had fallen into the hands
of this wretch. Protected by the great, she could fling her dirt upon the clean, and go unpunished.
Sonia's mate! He had punished one creature of her kind, and with God's help he would yet lash
the backs of Sister Claire and her supporters.

CHAPTER XXI.

AN ANXIOUS NIGHT.

Curran caught up with him as he turned into Broadway. He had waited to learn if Arthur had
any instructions, as he was now to return to Sister Claire's office and explain as he might
the astounding appearance of Dillon at a critical moment.

"She's a ripe one," Arthur said, smiling at thought of her collapse, but the next moment he
frowned. "She's a devil, Curran, a handsome devil, and we must deal with her accordingly--stamp
her out like a snake. Did you notice her?"

"No doubt she's a bad one," Curran answered thickly, but Arthur's bitter words gave him a shiver,
and he seemed to choke in his utterance.

"Make any explanation you like, Curran. She will accuse you of letting me in perhaps. It looks
like a trap, doesn't it? By the way, what became of the boy?"

"He seemed pretty well broken up," the detective answered, "and sent me off as soon as he learned
that I had him in charge. I told him that you had the whole business nicely in hand, and not
to worry. He muttered something about going home. Anyway, he would have no more of me, and
he went off quite steady, but looking rather queer, I thought."

Arthur, with sudden anxiety, recalled that pitiful, hopeless look of the terrified child in
Louis' face. Perhaps he had been too dazed to understand how completely Arthur had rescued
him in the nick of time. To the lad's inexperience this cheap attempt of Claire to overcome
his innocence by a modified badger game might have the aspect of a tragedy. Moreover, he remained
ignorant of the farce into which it had been turned.

"I am sorry you left him," he said, thoughtfully weighing the circumstances. "This creature
threatened him, of course, with publicity, an attack on her honor by a papist emissary. He
doesn't know how little she would dare such adventure now. He may run away in his fright, thinking
that his shame may be printed in the papers, and that the police may be watching for him. Public
disgrace means ruin for him, for, as you know, he is studying to be a priest."

"I didn't know," Curran answered stupidly, a greenish pallor spreading over his face. "That
kind of work won't bring her much luck."

"It occurs to me now that he was too frightened to understand what my appearance meant, and
what your words meant," Arthur resumed. "He may feel an added shame that we know about it.
I must find him. Do you go at once to Sister Claire and settle your business with her. Then
ride over to the Everards, and tell the lad, if he be there, that I wish to see him at once.
If he has not yet got back, leave word with his mother ... keep a straight face while you talk
with her ... to send him over to me as soon as he gets home. And tell her that if I meet him
before he does get home, that I shall keep him with me all night. Do you see the point? If
he has gone off in his fright, we have sixteen hours to find him. No one must know of his trouble,
in that house at least, until he is safe. Do you think we can get on his trail right away, Curran?"

"We must," Curran said harshly, "we must. Has he any money?"

"Not enough to carry him far."

"Then ten hours' search ought to capture him."

"Report then to me at my residence within an hour. I have hopes that this search will not be
needed, that you will find him at home. But be quicker than ever you were in your life, Curran.
I'd go over to Cherry Street myself, but my inquiries would frighten the Everards. There must
be no scandal."

Strange that he had not foreseen this possibility. For him the escapade with the escaped nun
would have been a joke, and he had not thought how differently Louis must have regarded it.
If the lad had really fled, and his friends must learn of it, Sister Claire's share in the
matter would have to remain a profound secret. With all their great love for this boy, his
clan would rather have seen him borne to the grave than living under the shadow of scandal
in connection with this vicious woman. Her perfidy would add disgrace to grief, and deepen
their woe beyond time's power to heal.

For with this people the prejudice against impurity was so nobly unreasonable that mere suspicion
became equal to crime. This feeling intensified itself in regard to the priesthood. The innocence
of Louis would not save him from lifelong reproach should his recent adventure finds its way
into the sneering journals. Within the hour Curran, more anxious than Arthur himself, brought
word that the lad had not yet reached home. His people were not worried, and promised to send
him with speed to Arthur.

"Begin your search then," said Arthur, "and report here every hour. I have an idea he may have
gone to see an aunt of his, and I'll go there to find out. What is your plan?"

"He has no money, and he'll want to go as far as he can, and where he won't be easily got at.
He'll ship on an Indiaman. I'll set a few men to look after the outgoing ships as a beginning."

"Secrecy above all things, understand," was the last admonition.

Darkness had come on, and the clocks struck the hour of seven as Arthur set out for a visit
to Sister Mary Magdalen. Possibly Louis had sought her to tell the story of failure and shame,
the sad result of her foolish enterprise; and she had kept him to console him, to put him in
shape before his return home, so that none might mark the traces of his frightful emotion.
Alas, the good nun had not seen him since their visit to Claire's office in Bleecker Street
the day before. He concealed from her the situation.

"How in the name of Heaven," said he, "did you conceive this scheme of converting this woman?"

"She has a soul to be saved, and it's quite saveable," answered the nun tartly. "The more hopeless
from man's view, the more likely from God's. I have a taste for hopeless enterprises."

"I wish you had left Louis out of this one," Arthur thought. "But to deal with a wretch like
her, so notorious, so fallen," he said aloud, "you must have risked too much. Suppose, after
you had entered her office, she had sent for a reporter to see you there, to see you leaving
after kissing her, to hear a pretty story of an embassy from the archbishop to coax her back
to religion; and the next morning a long account of this attempt on her resolution should appear
in the papers? What would your superiors say?"

"That could happen," she admitted with a shiver, "but I had her word that my visit was to be
kept a secret."

"Her word!" and he raised his hands.

"Oh, I assure you the affair was arranged beforehand to the smallest detail," she declared.
"Of course no one can trust a woman like that absolutely. But, as you see, in this case everything
went off smoothly."

"I see indeed," said Arthur too worried to smile.

"I arranged the meeting through Miss Conyngham," the nun continued, "a very clever person for
such work. I knew the danger of the enterprise, but the woman has a soul, and I thought if
some one had the courage to take her by the hand and lead her out of her wicked life, she might
do penance, and even become a saint. She received Miss Conyngham quite nicely indeed; and also
my message that a helping hand was ready for her at any moment. She was afraid too of a trap;
but at the last she begged to see me, and I went, with the consent of my superior."

"And how did you come to mix Louis up in the thing?"

"He happened to drop in as I was going, and I took him along. He was very much edified, we
all were."

"And he has been more edified since," observed Arthur, but the good nun missed the sarcasm.

"She made open confession before the three of us," warming up at the memory of that scene.
"With tears in her eyes she described her fall, her present remorse, her despair of the future,
and her hope in us. Most remarkable scene I ever witnessed. I arranged for her to call at this
convent whenever she could to plan for her return. She may be here any time. Oh, yes, I forgot.
The most touching moment of all came at the last. When we were leaving she took Louis' hand,
pressed it to her heart, kissed it with respect, and cried out: 'You happy soul, oh, keep the
grace of God in your heart, hold to your high vocation through any torment: to lose it, to
destroy it, as I destroyed mine, is to open wide the soul to devils.' Wasn't that beautiful
now? Then she asked him in the name of God to call on her the next day, and he promised. He
may be here to-night to tell me about it."

"You say three. Was Edith Conyngham the third?"

"Oh, no, only a sister of our community."

He burst out laughing at the thought of the fox acting so cleverly before the three geese.
Claire must have laughed herself into a fit when they had gone. He had now to put the Sister
on her guard at the expense of her self-esteem. He tried to do so gently and considerately,
fearing hysterics.

"You put the boy in the grasp of the devil, I fear," he said. "Convert Sister Claire! You would
better have turned your prayers on Satan! She got him alone this afternoon in her office, as
you permitted, and made him a proposition, which she had in her mind from the minute she first
saw him. I arrived in time to give her a shock, and to rescue him. Now we are looking for him
to tell him he need not fear Sister Claire's threats to publish how he made an attack upon
her virtue."

"I do not quite understand," gasped Sister Magdalen stupefied. What Arthur thought considerate
others might have named differently. Exasperation at the downright folly of the scheme, and
its threatened results, may have actuated him. His explanation satisfied the nun, and her fine
nerve resisted hysterics and tears.

"It is horrible," she said at the last word. "But we acted honestly, and God will not desert
us. You will find Louis before morning, and I shall spend the night in prayer until you have
found him ... for him and you ... and for that poor wretch, that dreadful woman, more to be
pitied than any one."

His confidence did not encourage him. Hour by hour the messengers of Curran appeared with the
one hopeless phrase: no news. He walked about the park until midnight, and then posted himself
in the basement with cigar and journal to while away the long hours. Sinister thoughts troubled
him, and painful fancies. He could see the poor lad hiding in the slums, or at the mercy of
wretches as vile as Claire; wandering about the city, perhaps, in anguish over his ruined life,
horrified at what his friends must read in the morning papers, planning helplessly to escape
from a danger which did not exist, except in his own mind. Oh, no doubt Curran would find him!
Why, he must find him!

Across the sea in London, Minister Livingstone slept, full fed with the flatteries of a day,
dreaming of the pleasures and honors sure to come with the morning. Down in the prison town
lived Honora, with her eyes dulled from watching the jail and her heart sore with longing.
For Owen the prison, for Louis the pavement, for Honora and himself the sleepless hours of
the aching heart; but for the responsible Minister and his responsible tool sweet sleep, gilded
comfort, overwhelming honors. Such things could be only because men of his sort were craven
idiots. What a wretched twist in all things human! Why not, if nothing else could be done,
go and set fire to Claire's office, the bishop's house, and the Livingstone mansion?

However, joy came at the end of the night, for the messenger brought word that the lad had
been found, sound as a bell, having just shipped as a common sailor on an Indiaman. Since Curran
could not persuade him to leave his ship, the detective had remained on the vessel to await
Arthur's arrival. A cab took him down to the wharf, and a man led him along the dock to the
gang-plank, thence across the deck to a space near the forecastle, where Curran sat with Louis
in the starlight.

"Then it's all true ... what he has been telling me?" Louis cried as he leaped to his feet
and took the hearty grasp of his friend.

"As true as gospel," said Arthur, using Judy's phrase. "Let's get out of this without delay.
We can talk about it at home. Curran, do you settle with the captain."

They hurried away to the cab in silence. Before entering Arthur wrung the hand of the detective
warmly.

"It would take more than I own to pay you for this night's work, Curran. I want you to know
how I feel about it, and when the time comes ask your own reward."

"What you have just said is half of it," the man answered in a strange tone. "When the time
comes I shall not be bashful."

"It would have been the greatest blunder of your life," Arthur said, as they drove homeward,
"if you had succeeded in getting away. It cannot be denied, Louis, that from five o'clock this
afternoon till now you made a fool of yourself. Don't reply. Don't worry about it. Just think
of this gold-plate fact: no one knows anything about it. You are supposed to be sleeping sweetly
at my house. I settled Claire beautifully. And Sister Magdalen, too. By the way, I must send
her word by the cabby ... better let her do penance on her knees till sunrise ... she's praying
for you ... but the suspense might kill her ... no, I'll send word. As I was saying, everything
is as it was at four o'clock this afternoon."

He chattered for the lad's benefit, noting that at times Louis shivered as with ague, and that
his hands were cold. He has tasted calamity, Arthur thought with resignation, and life will
never be quite the same thing again. In the comfortable room the marks of suffering became
painfully evident. Even joy failed to rouse his old self. Pale, wrinkled like age, shrunken,
almost lean, he presented a woful spectacle. Arthur mixed a warm punch for him, and spread
a substantial lunch.

"The sauce for this feast," said he, "is not appetite, but this fact: that your troubles are
over. Now eat."

Louis made a pretense of eating, and later, under the influence of the punch, found a little
appetite. By degrees his mind became clearer as his body rested, the wrinkles began to disappear,
his body seemed to fill out while the comfort of the situation invaded him. Arthur, puffing
his cigar and describing his interview with Claire, looked so stanch and solid, so sure of
himself, so at ease with his neighbors, that one could scarcely fail to catch his happy complaint.

"She has begun her descent into hell," he said placidly, "but since you are with us still,
I shall give her plenty of time to make it. What I am surprised at is that you did not understand
what my entrance meant. She understood it. She thought Curran was due as her witness of the
assault. What surprises me still more is that you so completely forgot my advice: no matter
what the trouble and the shame, come straight to me. Here was a grand chance to try it."

"I never thought of this kind of trouble," said Louis dully. "Anyway, I got such a fright that
I understood nothing rightly up to midnight. The terrible feeling of public disgrace eat into
me. I saw and heard people crying over me as at a funeral, you know that hopeless crying. The
road ahead looked to be full of black clouds. I wanted to die. Then I wanted to get away. When
I found a ship they took me for a half-drunk sailor, and hustled me into the forecastle in
lively shape. When Curran found me and hauled me out of the bunk, I had been asleep enjoying
the awfullest dreams. I took him for a trickster, who wanted to get me ashore and jail me.
I feel better. I think I can sleep now."

"Experience maybe has given you a better grip on the meaning of that wise advice which I repeat
now: no matter what the trouble, come to me."

"I shall come," said the lad with a show of spirit that delighted Arthur. "Even if you should
see me hanged the next day."

"That's a fine sentiment to sleep on, so we'll go to bed. However, remind yourself that a little
good sense when you resume business ... by the way, it's morning ... no super-sensitiveness,
no grieving, for you were straight all through ... go right on as if nothing had happened ...
and in fact nothing has happened yet ... I can see that you understand."

They went to bed, and slept comfortably until noon. After breakfast Louis looked passably well,
yet miserable enough to make explanations necessary for his alarmed parents. Arthur undertook
the disagreeable office, which seemed to him delightful by comparison with that other story
of a runaway son en route in fancied disgrace for India. All's well that ends well. Mary Everard
wept with grief, joy, and gratitude, and took her jewel to her arms without complaint or question.
The crotchety father was disposed to have it out with either the knaves or the fools in the
game, did not Arthur reduce him to quiet by his little indictment.

"There is only one to quarrel with about this sad affair, John Everard," said he smoothly,
"and that only one is your friend and well wisher, Quincy Livingstone. I want you to remember
that, when we set out to take his scalp. It's a judgment on you that you are the first to suffer
directly by this man's plotting. You needn't talk back. The boy is going to be ill, and you'll
need all your epithets for your chief and yourself before you see comfort again."

Recalling his son's appearance the father remained silent. Arthur's prevision came true. The
physician ordered Louis to bed for an indefinite time, having found him suffering from shock,
and threatened with some form of fever. The danger did not daunt his mother. Whatever of suffering
yet remained, her boy would endure it in the shelter of her arms.

"If he died this night," she said to Arthur, "I would still thank God that sent him back to
die among his own; and after God, you, son dear, who have been more than a brother to him."

Thus the items in his account with kinsman Livingstone kept mounting daily.

CHAPTER XXII.

THE END OF A MELODRAMA.

Louis kept his bed for some weeks, and suffered a slow convalescence. Private grief must give
way to public necessity. In this case the private grief developed a public necessity. Arthur
took pains to tell his story to the leaders. It gave point to the general onslaught now being
made on the Irish by the hired journals, the escaped nun, and, as some named him, the escaped
historian. A plan was formulated to deal with all three. Grahame entered the lists against
Bitterkin and Smallish, Vandervelt denounced the Confessions and its author at a banquet vis-à-vis
with Bradford, and Monsignor pursued the escaped historian by lecturing in the same cities,
and often on the same platform. Arthur held to Sister Claire as his specialty, as the hinge
of the Livingstone scheme, a very rotten hinge on which to depend. Nevertheless, she kept her
footing for months after her interview with him.

Curran had laid bare her life and exposed her present methods nicely; but neither afforded
a grip which might shake her, except inasmuch as it gave him an unexpected clue to the Claire
labyrinth. Her history showed that she had often played two parts in the same drama. Without
doubt a similar trick served her now, not only to indulge her riotous passions, but to glean
advantages from her enemies and useful criticism from her friends. He cast about among his
casual acquaintance for characters that Claire might play. Edith Conyngham? Not impossible!
The Brand who held forth at the gospel hall? Here was a find indeed! Comparing the impressions
left upon him by these women, as a result he gave Curran the commission to watch and study
the daily living of Edith Conyngham. Even this man's nerve shook at a stroke so luckily apt.

"I don't know much about the ways of escaped nuns," said Arthur, "but I am going to study them.
I'll wager you find Claire behind the rusty garments of this obscure, muddy, slimy little woman.
They have the same appetite anyway."

This choice bit of news, carried at once to the escaped nun, sounded in Sister Claire's ear
like the crack of doom, and she stared at Curran, standing humbly in her office, with distorted
face.

"Is this the result of your clever story-telling, Dick Curran?" she gasped.

"It's the result of your affair with young Everard," he replied sadly. "That was a mistake
altogether. It waked up Arthur Dillon."

"The mistake was to wake that man," she said sourly. "I fear him. There's something hiding
in him, something terrible, that looks out of his eyes like a ghost in hell. The dogs ... Jezebel
... that was his threat ... ugh!"

"He has waked up the whole crowd against you and frightened your friends. If ever he tells
the Clan-na-Gael about young Everard, your life won't be worth a pin."

"With you to defend me?" ironically.

"I could only die with you ... against that crowd."

"And you would," she said with conviction, tears in her eyes. "My one friend."

His cheeks flushed and his eyes sparkled at the fervent praise of his fidelity.

"Well, it's all up with me," changing to a mood of gaiety. "The Escaped Nun must escape once
more. They will all turn their coldest shoulders to me, absolutely frightened by this Irish
crowd, to which we belong after all, Dick. I'm not sorry they can stand up for themselves,
are you? So, there's nothing to do but take up the play, and begin work on it in dead earnest."

"It's a bad time," Curran ventured, as she took a manuscript from a desk. "But you know how
to manage such things, you are so clever," he hastened to add, catching a fiery glance from
her eye. "Only you must go with caution."

"It's a fine play," she said, turning the pages of the manuscript. "Dick, you are little short
of a genius. If I had not liked the real play so well, playing to the big world this rôle of
escaped nun, I would have taken it up long ago. The little stage of the theater is nothing
to the grand stage of the world, where a whole nation applauds; and men like the Bishop take
it for the real thing, this impersonation of mine. But since I am shut out ... and my curse
on this Arthur Dillon ... no, no, I take that back ... he's a fine fellow, working according
to his nature ... since he will shut me out I must take to the imitation stage. Ah, but the
part is fine! First act: the convent garden, the novice reading her love in the flowers, the
hateful old mother superior choking her to get her lover's note from her, the reading of the
note, and the dragging of the novice to her prison cell, down in the depths of the earth. How
that will draw the tears from the old maids of Methodism all over the country!"

She burst into hearty laughter.

"Second act: the dungeon, the tortures, old superior again, and the hateful hag who is in love
with the hero and would like to wreak her jealousy on me, poor thing, all tears and determination.
I loathe the two women. I denounce the creed which invents such tortures. I lie down to die
in the dungeon while the music moans and the deacons and their families in the audience groan.
Don't you think, Dicky dear, I can do the dying act to perfection?"

"On the stage perfectly."

"You're a wretch," she shrieked with sudden rage. "You hint at the night I took a colic and
howled for the priest, when you know it was only the whisky and the delirium. How dare you!"

"It slipped on me," he said humbly.

"The third act is simply beautiful: chapel of the convent, a fat priest at the altar, all the
nuns gathered about to hear the charges against me, I am brought in bound, pale, starved, but
determined; the trial, the sentence, the curse ... oh, that scene is sublime, I can see Booth
in it ... pity we can't have him ... then the inrush of my lover, the terror, the shrieks,
the confusion, as I am carried off the stage with the curtain going down. At last the serene
fourth act: another garden, the villains all punished, my lover's arms about me, and we two
reading the flowers as the curtain descends. Well," with a sigh of pleasure, "if that doesn't
take among the Methodists and the general public out West and down South, what will?"

"I can see the fire with which you will act it," said Curran eagerly. "You are a born actress.
Who but you could play so many parts at once?"

"And yet," she answered dreamily, giving an expressive kick with unconscious grace, "this is
what I like best. If it could be introduced into the last act ... but of course the audiences
wouldn't tolerate it, dancing. Well," waking up suddenly to business, "are you all ready for
the grand coup--press, manager, all details?"

"Ready long ago."

"Here then is the program, Dicky dear. To-morrow I seek the seclusion of the convent at Park
Square--isn't seclusion good? To-night letters go out to all my friends, warning them of my
utter loneliness, and dread of impending abduction. In two or three days you get a notice in
the papers about these letters, and secure interviews with the Bishop if possible, with McMeeter
anyway ... oh, he'll begin to howl as soon as he gets his letter. Whenever you think the public
interest, or excitement, is at its height, then you bring your little ladder to the convent,
and wait outside for a racket which will wake the neighborhood. In the midst of it, as the
people are gathering, up with the ladder, and down with me in your triumphant arms. Pity we
can't have a calcium light for that scene. If there should be any failure ... of course there
can't be ... then a note of warning will reach me, with any instructions you may wish to give
me ... to the old address of course."

Both laughed heartily at this allusion.

"It has been great fun," she said, "fooling them all right and left. That Dillon is suspicious
though ... fine fellow ... I like him. Dicky, ... you're not jealous. What a wonder you are,
dear old faithful Dicky, my playwright, manager, lover, detective, everything to me. Well,
run along to your work. We strike for fortune this time--for fortune and for fame. You will
not see me again until you carry me down the ladder from the convent window. What a lark! And
there's money in it for you and me."

He dared not discourage her, being too completely her slave, like wax in her hands; and he
believed, too, that her scheme of advertising the drama of The Escaped Nun would lead to splendid
and profitable notoriety. A real escape, from a city convent, before the very eyes of respectable
citizens, would ring through the country like an alarm, and set the entire Protestant community
in motion. While he feared, he was also dazzled by the brilliancy of the scheme.

It began very well. The journals one morning announced the disappearance of Sister Claire,
and described the alarm of her friends at her failure to return. Thereupon McMeeter raised
his wonderful voice over the letter sent him on the eve of her flight, and printed the pathetic
epistle along with his denunciation of the cowardice which had given her over to her enemies.
Later Bishop Bradford, expressing his sympathy in a speech to the Dorcas' Society, referred
to the walling up of escaped nuns during the dark ages. A little tide of paragraphs flowed
from the papers, plaintively murmuring the one sad strain: the dear sister could not be far
distant; she might be in the city, deep in a convent dungeon; she had belonged to the community
of the Good Shepherd, whose convent stood in Morris Street, large enough, sufficiently barred
with iron to suggest dungeons; the escaped one had often expressed her dread of abduction;
the convents ought to be examined suddenly and secretly; and so on without end.

"What is the meaning of it?" said Monsignor. "I thought you had extinguished her, Arthur."

"Another scheme of course. I was too merciful with her, I imagine. All this noise seems to
have one aim: to direct attention to these convents. Now if she were hidden in any of them,
and a committee should visit that convent and find her forcibly detained, as she would call
it; or if she could sound a fire alarm and make a spectacular escape at two in the morning,
before the whole world, what could be said about it?"

"Isn't it rather late in history for such things?" said Monsignor.

"A good trick is as good to-day as a thousand years ago. I can picture you explaining to the
American citizen, amid the howls of McMeeter and the purring speeches of the Bishop, how Sister
Claire came to be in the convent from which her friends rescued her."

"It would be awkward enough I admit. You think, then, that she ... but what could be her motive?"

"Notoriety, and the sympathy of the people. I would like to trip her up in this scheme, and
hurl her once for all into the hell which she seems anxious to prepare for other people. You
Catholics are altogether too easy with the Claires and the McMeeters. Hence the tears of the
Everards."

"We are so used to it," said the priest in apology. "It would be foolish, however, not to heed
your warning. Go to the convents of the city from me, and put them on their guard. Let them
dismiss all strangers and keep out newcomers until the danger appears to be over."

The most careful search failed to reveal a trace of Sister Claire's hiding-place among the
various communities, who were thrown into a fever of dread by the warning. The journals kept
up their crescendo of inquiry and information. One must look for that snake, Arthur thought,
not with the eyes, but through inspiration. She hid neither in the clouds nor in Arizona, but
in the grass at their feet. Seeking for inspiration, he went over the ground a second time
with Sister Magdalen, who had lost flesh over the shame of her dealings with Claire, the Everard
troubles, and the dread of what was still to come. She burned to atone for her holy indiscretions.
The Park Square convent, however, held no strangers. In the home attached to it were many poor
women, but all of them known. Edith Conyngham the obscure, the mute, the humble, was just then
occupying a room in the place, making a retreat of ten days in charge of Sister Magdalen. At
this fact Arthur was seized by his inspiration.

"She must give up her retreat and leave the place," he said quietly, though his pulse was bounding.
"Make no objection. It's only a case of being too careful. Leave the whole matter to me. Say
nothing to her about it. To-night the good creature will have slipped away without noise, and
she can finish her retreat later. It's absurd, but better be absurd than sorry."

And Sister Magdalen, thinking of the long penance she must undergo for her folly, made only
a polite objection. He wrote out a note at once in a disguised hand, giving it no signature:

    "The game is up. You cannot get out of the convent too quick or too
    soon. At ten o'clock a cab will be at the southwest corner of Park
    Square. Take it and drive to the office. Before ten I shall be with
    you. Don't delay an instant. State prison is in sight. Dillon is on
    your track."

"At eight o'clock this evening where will Miss Conyngham be, Sister?"

"In her room," said the nun, unhappy over the treatment intended for her client, "preparing
her meditation for the morning. She has a great love for meditation on the profound mysteries
of religion."

"Glad to know it," he said dryly. "Well, slip this note under her door, make no noise, let
no one see you, give her no hint of your presence. Then go to bed and pray for us poor sinners
out in the wicked world."

One must do a crazy thing now and then, under cover of the proprieties, if only to test one's
sanity. Edith and Claire, as he had suggested to Curran, might be the same person. What if
Claire appeared tall, portly, resonant, youthful, abounding in life, while Edith seemed mute,
old, thin, feeble? The art of the actor can work miracles in personal appearance. A dual life
provided perfect security in carrying out Claire's plans, and it matched the daring of the
Escaped Nun to live as Edith in the very hearts of the people she sought to destroy. Good sense
opposed his theory of course, but he made out a satisfactory argument for himself. How often
had Sister Claire puzzled him by her resemblance to some one whom he could not force out of
the shadows of memory! Even now, with the key of the mystery in his hands, he could see no
likeness between them. Yet no doubt remained in his mind that a dual life would explain and
expose Sister Claire.

That night he sat on the seat of a cab in proper costume, at the southwest corner of Park Square.
The convent, diagonally opposite, was dark and silent at nine o'clock; and far in the rear,
facing the side street, stood the home of the indigent, whose door would open for the exit
of a clever actress at ten o'clock, or, well closed, reproach him for his stupidity. The great
front of the convent, dominating the Square, would have been a fine stage for the scene contemplated
by Sister Claire, and he laughed at the spectacle of the escaped one leaping from a window
into her lover's arms, or sliding down a rope amid the cheers of the mob and the shrieks of
the disgraced poor souls within. Then he gritted his teeth at the thought of Louis, and Mary
his mother, and Mona his sister. His breath came short. Claire was a woman, but some women
are not dishonored by the fate of Jezebel.

Shortly after ten o'clock a small, well-wrapped figure turned the remote corner of the Home,
came out to the Square, saw the cab, and coming forward with confidence opened the door and
stepped in. As Arthur drove off the blood surged to his head and his heart in a way that made
his ears sing. It seemed impossible that the absurd should turn out wisdom at the first jump.
As he drove along he wondered over the capacities of art. No two individuals could have been
more unlike in essentials than Edith Conyngham and Sister Claire. Now it would appear that
high-heeled shoes, padded clothes, heavy eyebrows, paint, a loud and confident voice, a bold
manner, and her beautiful costume had made Sister Claire; while shoes without heels, rusty
clothes, a gray wig, a weak voice, and timid manner, had given form to Edith Conyngham.

A soul is betrayed by its sins. The common feature of the two characters was the sensuality
which, neither in the nun nor in her double, would be repressed or disguised. Looking back,
Arthur could see some points of resemblance which might have betrayed the wretch to a clever
detective. Well, he would settle all accounts with her presently, and he debated only one point,
the flinging of her to the dogs. In twenty minutes they reached the office of the Escaped Nun.
He opened the door of the cab and she stepped out nervously, but walked with decision into
the building, for which she had the keys.

"Anything more, mum?" he said respectfully.

"Come right in, and light up for me," she said ungraciously, in a towering rage. He found his
way to the gas jets and flooded the office with the light from four. She pulled down the curtains,
and flung aside her rusty shawl. At the same moment he flung an arm about her, and with his
free hand tore the gray wig from her head, and shook free the mass of yellow hair which lay
beneath it. Then he flung her limp into the nearest chair, and stood gazing at her, frozen
with amaze. She cowered, pale with the sudden fright of the attack. It was not Sister Claire
who stood revealed, but the charming and lovely La Belle Colette. The next instant he laughed
like a hysterical woman.

"By heavens, but that was an inspiration!" he exclaimed. "Don't be frightened, beautiful Colette.
I was prepared for a tragedy, but this discovery reveals a farce."

Her terror gave way to stupefaction when she recognized him.

"So it's three instead of two," he went on. "The lovely dancer is also the Escaped Nun and
the late Edith Conyngham. And Curran knew it of course, who was our detective. That's bad.
But Judy Haskell claims you as a goddaughter. You are Curran's wife. You are Sister Magdalen's
poor friend. You are Katharine Kerrigan. You are Sister Claire. You are Messalina. La Belle
Colette, you are the very devil."

She recovered from her fright at his laugh, in which some amusement tinkled, and also something
terrible. They were in a lonely place, he had made the situation, and she felt miserably helpless.

"You need not blame Curran," she said decisively. "He knew the game, but he has no control
over me. I want to go home, and I want to know right away your terms. It's all up with me.
I confess. But let me know what you are going to do with me."

"Take you home to your husband," said Arthur. "Come."

They drove to the little apartment where Curran lay peacefully sleeping, and where he received
his erratic wife with stupor. The three sat down in the parlor to discuss the situation, which
was serious enough, though Arthur now professed to take it lightly. Colette stared at him like
a fascinated bird and answered his questions humbly.

"It's all very simple," said she. "I am truly Edith Conyngham, and Judy Haskell is my godmother,
and I was in a convent out West. I was expelled for a love caper, and came back to my friends
much older in appearance than I had need to be. The Escaped-Nun-racket was a money-maker. What
I really am, you see. I am the dancer, La Belle Colette. All the rest is disguise."

Curran asked no questions and accepted the situation composedly.

"She is in your hands," he said.

"I place her in yours for the present," Arthur replied, glowering as he thought of Louis. "Detectives
will shadow you both until I come to a decision what to do with you. Any move to escape and
you will be nipped. Then the law takes its course. As for you, La Belle Colette, say your prayers.
I am still tempted to send you after Jezebel."

"You are a terrible man," she whimpered, as he walked out and left them to their sins.

CHAPTER XXIII.

THE FIRST BLOW.

Mayor Birmingham and Grahame, summoned by messengers, met him in the forever-deserted offices
of Sister Claire. He made ready for them by turning on all the lights, setting forth a cheerful
bottle and some soda from Claire's hidden ice-box, and lighting a cigar. Delight ran through
his blood like fire. At last he had his man on the hip, and the vision of that toss which he
meant to give him made his body tingle from the roots of his hair to the points of his toes.
However, the case was not for him to deal with alone. Birmingham, the man of weight, prudence,
fairness, the true leader, really owned the situation. Grahame, experienced journalist, had
the right to manage the publicity department of this delicious scandal. His own task would
be to hold Claire in the traces, and drive her round the track, show the world her paces, past
the judge's stand. Ah, to see the face of the Minister as he read the story of exposure--her
exposure and his own shame!

The two men stared at his comfortable attitude in that strange inn, and fairly gasped at the
climax of his story.

"The devil's in you. No one but you would have thought out such a scheme," said Grahame, recalling
the audacity, the cleverness, the surprises of his friend's career from the California episode
to the invasion of Ireland. "Great heavens! but you have the knack of seizing the hinge of things."

"I think we have Livingstone and his enterprise in the proper sort of hole," Arthur answered.
"The question is how to use our advantage?"

The young men turned to Birmingham with deference.

"The most thorough way," said the Mayor, after complimenting Arthur on his astonishing success,
"would be to hale Claire before the courts for fraud, and subpoena all our distinguished enemies.
That course has some disagreeable consequences, however."

"I think we had better keep out of court," Arthur said quickly.

His companions looked surprised at his hesitation. He did not understand it himself. For Edith
Conyngham he felt only disgust, and for Sister Claire an amused contempt; but sparkling Colette,
so clever, bright, and amiable, so charmingly conscienceless, so gracefully wicked, inspired
him with pity almost. He could not crush the pretty reptile, or thrust her into prison.

"Of course I want publicity," he hastened to add, "the very widest, to reach as far as London,
and strike the Minister. How can that be got, and keep away from the courts?"

"An investigating committee is what you are thinking of," said the Mayor. "I can call such
a body together at the Fifth Avenue Hotel, our most distinguished citizens. They could receive
the confession of this woman, and report to the public on her character."

"That's the plan," Arthur interrupted with joy. "That must be carried out. I'll see that Claire
appears before that committee and confesses her frauds. But mark this: on that committee you
should have the agents of Livingstone: Bradford, Bitterkin ... I owe him one for his meanness
to the Senator ... Smallish in particular, and McMeeter for the fun of the thing."

"Wild horses wouldn't drag them to it," Grahame thought.

"I have something better than wild horses, the proofs of their conspiracy, of their league
with this woman," and Arthur pointed to the locked drawers of the office. "How will our minister
to England like to have his name connected with this scandal openly. Now, if these people refuse
to serve, by heavens, I'll take the whole case to court, and give it an exposure as wide as
the earth. If they're agreeable, I'll keep away from the courts, and the rougher part of the
scandal."

"There's your weapon," said the Mayor, "the alternative of committee or court. I'll see to
that part of the business. Do you get the escaped nun ready for her confession, and I'll guarantee
the committee, let us say inside of ten days. Your part, Grahame, will be to write up a story
for the morning papers, covering dramatically the details of this very remarkable episode."

They sat long discussing the various features of the scheme.

Next morning Curran and Arthur sat down to talk over the terms of surrender in the detective's
house. Colette still kept her bed, distracted with grief, and wild with apprehension over the
sensational articles in the morning papers. Curran saw little hope for himself and his wife
in the stern face of Dillon.

"At the start I would like to hear your explanation," Arthur began coldly. "You were in my
employ and in hers."

"In hers only to hinder what evil I could, and to protect her from herself," the detective
answered steadily and frankly. "I make no excuse, because there isn't any to make. But if I
didn't live up to my contract with you, I can say honestly that I never betrayed your interest.
You can guess the helplessness of a man in my fix. I have no influence over Colette. She played
her game against my wish and prayer. Most particular did I warn her against annoying you and
yours. I was going to break up her designs on young Everard, when you did it yourself. I hope
you----"

In his nervous apprehension for Colette's fate the strong-willed man broke down. He remained
silent, struggling for his vanishing self-control.

"I understand, and I excuse you. The position was nasty. I have always trusted you without
knowing why exactly," and he reflected a moment on that interesting fact. "You did me unforgettable
service in saving Louis Everard."

"How glad I am you remember that service," Curran gasped, like one who grasping at a straw
finds it a plank. "I foresaw this moment when I said to you that night, 'I shall not be bashful
about reminding you of it and asking a reward at the right time.' I ask it now. For the boy's
sake be merciful with her. Don't hand her over to the courts. Deal with her yourself, and I'll
help you."

For the boy's sake, for that service so aptly rendered, for the joy it brought and the grief
it averted, he could forget justice and crown Colette with diamonds! Curran trembled with eagerness
and suspense. He loved her,--this wretch, witch, fiend of a woman!

"The question is, can I deal with her myself? She is intractable."

"You ought to know by this time that she will do anything for you ... and still more when she
has to choose between your wish and jail."

"I shall require a good deal of her, not for my own sake, but to undo the evil work----"

"How I have tried to keep her out of that evil work," Curran cried fiercely. "We are bad enough
as it is without playing traitors to our own, and throwing mud on holy things. There can be
no luck in it, and she knows it. When one gets as low as she has, it's time for the funeral.
Hell is more respectable."

Arthur did not understand this feeling in Curran. The man's degradation seemed so complete
to him that not even sacrilege could intensify it; yet clearly the hardened sinner saw some
depths below his own which excited his horror and loathing.

"If you think I can deal with her, I shall not invoke the aid of the law."

The detective thanked him in a breaking voice. He had enjoyed a very bad night speculating
on the probable course of events. Colette came in shortly, and greeted Arthur as brazenly as
usual, but with extreme sadness, which became her well; so sweet, so delicate, so fragile,
that he felt pleased to have forgiven her so early in the struggle. He had persecuted her,
treated her with violence, and printed her history for the scornful pleasure of the world;
he had come to offer her the alternative of public shame or public trial and jail; yet she
had a patient smile for him, a dignified submission that touched him. After all, he thought
with emotion, she is of the same nature with myself; a poor castaway from conventional life
playing one part or another by caprice, for gain or sport or notoriety; only the devil has
entered into her, while I have been lucky enough to cast my lot with the exorcists of the race.
He almost regretted his duty.

"I have taken possession of your office and papers, Colette," said he with the dignity of the
master. "I dismissed the office-boy with his wages, and notified the owner that you would need
the rooms no more after the end of the month."

"Thanks," she murmured with downcast eyes.

"I am ready now to lay before you the conditions----"

"Are you going to send me to jail?"

"I leave that to you," he answered softly. "You must withdraw your book from circulation. You
must get an injunction from the courts to restrain the publishers, if they won't stop printing
at your request, and you must bring suit against them for your share of the profits. I want
them to be exposed. My lawyer is at your service for such work."

"This for the beginning?" she said in despair.

"You must write for me a confession next, describing your career, and the parts which you played
in this city; also naming your accomplices, your supporters, and what money they put up for
your enterprise."

"You will find all that in my papers."

"Is Mr. Livingstone's name among your papers?"

"He was the ringleader. Of course."

"Finally you must appear before a committee of gentlemen at the Fifth Avenue Hotel, and show
how you disguised yourself for the three parts of Edith Conyngham, Sister Claire, and the Brand
of the gospel-hall."

She burst out crying then, looking from one man to the other with the tears streaming down
her lovely face. Curran squirmed in anguish. Arthur studied her with interest. Who could tell
when she was not acting?

"Ah, you wretch! I am bad. Sometimes I can't bear myself. But you are worse, utterly without
heart. You think I don't feel my position."

Her sobbing touched him by its pathos and its cleverness.

"You are beyond feeling, but you must talk about feeling," was his hard reply. "Probably I
shall make you feel before the end of this adventure."

"As if you hadn't done it already," she fairly bawled like a hurt child. "For months I have
not left the house without seeing everywhere the dogs that tore Jezebel."

"You might also have seen that poor child whom you nearly drove to death," he retorted, "and
the mother whose heart you might have broken."

"Poor child!" she sneered, and burst out laughing while the tears still lingered on her cheek.
"He was a milksop, not a man. I thought he was a man, or I never would have offered him pleasure.
And you want me to make a show of myself before...."

"Your old friends and well-wishers, McMeeter, Bradford and Co."

"Never, never, never," she screamed, and fell to weeping again. "I'll die first."

"You won't be asked to die, madam. You'll go to jail the minute I leave this house, and stand
trial on fifty different charges. I'll keep you in jail for the rest of your life. If by any
trick you escape me, I'll deliver you to the dogs."

"Can he do this?" she said scornfully to Curran, who nodded.

"And if I agree to it, what do I get?" turning again to Dillon.

"You can live in peace as La Belle Colette the dancer, practise your profession, and enjoy
the embraces of your devoted husband. I let you off lightly. Your private life, your stage
name, will be kept from the public, and, by consequence, from the dogs."

She shivered at the phrase. Shame was not in her, but fear could grip her heart vigorously.
Her nerve did not exclude cowardice. This man she had always feared, perceiving in him not
only a strength beyond the common, but a mysterious power not to be analyzed and named. Her
flimsy rage would break hopelessly on this rock. Still before surrendering, her crooked nature
forced her to the petty arts in which she excelled. Very clearly in this acting appeared the
various strokes of character peculiar to Edith, Claire, and the Brand. She wheedled and whined
one moment in the husky tones of Sister Magdalen's late favorite; when dignity was required
she became the escaped nun; and in her rage she would burst into the melodramatic frenzy dear
to the McMeeter audiences; but Colette, the heedless, irresponsible, half-mad butterfly, dominated
these various parts, and to this charming personality she returned. Through his own sad experience
this spectacle interested him. He subdued her finally by a precise description of consequences.

"You have done the Catholics of this city harm that will last a long time, Colette," said he.
"That vile book of yours ... you ought to be hung for it. It will live to do its miserable
work when you are in hell howling. I really don't know why I should be merciful to you. Did
you ever show mercy to any one? The court would do this for you and for us: the facts, figures,
and personages of your career would be dragged into the light of day ... what a background
that would be ... not a bad company either ... not a fact would escape ... you would be painted
as you are. I'll not tell you what you are, but I know that you would die of your own colors
... you would go to jail, and rot there ... every time you came out I'd have a new charge on
which to send you back. Your infamy would be printed by columns in the papers ... and the dogs
would be put on your trail ... ah, there's the rub ... if the law let you go free, what a meal
you'd make for the people who think you ought to be torn limb from limb, and who would do it
with joy. I really do not understand why I offer you an alternative. Perhaps it's for the sake
of this man who loves you ... for the great service he did me."

He paused to decide this point, while she gazed like a fascinated bird.

"What I want is this really," he went on. "I want to let the city see just what tools Livingstone,
your employer, is willing to do his dirty work with. I want this committee to assemble with
pomp and circumstance ... those are the right words ... and to see you, in your very cleverest
way, act the parts through which you fooled the wise. I want them to hear you say in that sweetest
of voices, how you lied to them to get their dollars ... how you lied about us, your own people,
threw mud on us, as Curran says, to get their dollars ... how your life, and your book, and
your lectures, are all lies ... invented and printed because the crowd that devoured them were
eager to believe us the horrible creatures you described. When you have done that, you can
go free. No one will know your husband, or your name, or your profession. I don't see why you
hesitate. I don't know why I should offer you this chance. When Birmingham hears your story
he will not approve of my action. But if you agree to follow my directions to the letter I'll
promise that the law will not seize you."

What could she do but accept his terms, protesting that death was preferable? The risk of losing
her just as the committee would be ready to meet, for her fickleness verged on insanity, he
had to accept. He trusted in his own watchfulness, and in the fidelity of Curran to keep her
in humor. Even now she forgot her disasters in the memory of her success as an impersonator,
and entertained the men with scenes from her masquerade as Edith, Claire, and the Brand. From
such a creature, so illy balanced, one might expect anything.

However, by judicious coddling and terrorizing, her courage and spirit were kept alive to the
very moment when she stood before Birmingham and his committee, heard her confession of imposture
read, signed it with perfect sang-froid, and illustrated for the scandalized members her method
of impersonation. So had Arthur worked upon her conceit that she took a real pride in displaying
her costumes, and in explaining how skilfully she had led three lives in that city. Grim, bitter,
sickened with disappointment, yet masked in smiles, part of the committee watched her performance
to the end. They felt the completeness of Arthur's triumph. With the little airs and graces
peculiar to a stage artiste, Edith put on the dusty costume of Edith Conyngham, and limped
feebly across the floor; then the decorous garments of the Brand, and whispered tenderly in
McMeeter's ear; last, the brilliant habit of the escaped nun, the curious eyebrows, the pallid
face; curtseying at the close of the performance with her bold eyes on her audience, as if
beseeching the merited applause. In the dead silence afterwards, Arthur mercifully led her away.

The journals naturally gave the affair large attention, and the net results were surprisingly
fine. The house of cards so lovingly built up by Livingstone and his friends tumbled in a morning
never to rise again. All the little plans failed like kites snipped of their tails. Fritters
went home, because the public lost interest in his lectures. The book of the escaped nun fell
flat and disappeared from the market. McMeeter gave up his scheme of rescuing the inmates of
convents and housing them until married. The hired press ignored the Paddies and their island
for a whole year. Best of all, suddenly, on the plea of dying among his friends, Ledwith was
set free, mainly through the representations of Lord Constantine in London and Arthur in Washington.
These rebuffs told upon the Minister severely. He knew from whose strong hand they came, and
that the same hand would not soon tire of striking.

CHAPTER XXIV.

ANNE MAKES HISTORY.

In the months that followed Anne Dillon lived as near to perfect felicity as earthly conditions
permit. A countess and a lord breathed under her roof, ate at her table, and talked prose and
poetry with her as freely as Judy Haskell. The Countess of Skibbereen and Lord Constantine
had accompanied the Ledwiths to America, after Owen's liberation from jail, and fallen victims
to the wiles of this clever woman. Arthur might look after the insignificant Ledwiths. Anne
would have none of them. She belonged henceforth to the nobility. His lordship was bent on
utilizing his popularity with the Irish to further the cause of the Anglo-American Alliance.
As the friend who had stood by the Fenian prisoners, not only against embittered England, but
against indifferent Livingstone, he was welcomed; and if he wanted an alliance, or an heiress,
or the freedom of the city, or anything which the Irish could buy for him, he had only to ask
in order to receive. Anne sweetly took the responsibility off his shoulders, after he had outlined
his plans.

"Leave it all to me," said she. "You shall win the support of all these people without turning
your hand over."

"You may be sure she'll do it much better than you will," was the opinion of the Countess,
and the young man was of the same mind.

She relied chiefly on Doyle Grahame for one part of her program, but that effervescent youth
had fallen into a state of discouragement which threatened to leave him quite useless. He shook
his head to her demand for a column in next morning's Herald.

"Same old story ... the Countess and you ... lovely costumes ... visits ... it won't go. The
editors are wondering why there's so much of you."

"Hasn't it all been good?"

"Of course, or it would not have been printed. But there must come an end sometime. What's
your aim anyway?"

"I want a share in making history," she said slyly.

"Take a share in making mine," he answered morosely, and thereupon she landed him.

"Oh, run away with Mona, if you're thinking of marrying."

"Thinking of it! Talking of it! That's as near as I can get to it," he groaned. "John Everard
is going to drive a desperate bargain with me. I wrote a book, I helped to expose Edith Conyngham,
I drove Fritters out of the country with my ridicule, I shocked Bradford, and silenced McMeeter;
and I have failed to move that wretch. All I got out of my labors was permission to sit beside
Mona in her own house with her father present."

"You humor the man too much," Anne said with a laugh. "I can twist John Everard about my finger,
only----"

"There it is," cried Grahame. "Behold it in its naked simplicity! Only! Well, if anything short
of the divine can get around, over, under, through, or by his sweet, little 'only,' he's fit
to be the next king of Ireland. What have I not done to do away with it? Once I thought, I
hoped, that the invitation to read the poem on the landing of the Pilgrim Fathers, coming as
a climax to multitudinous services, would surely have fetched him. Now, with the invitation
in my pocket, I'm afraid to mention it. What if he should scorn it?"

"He won't if I say the word. Give me the column to-morrow, and any time I want it for a month
or two, and I'll guarantee that John Everard will do the right thing by you."

"You can have the column. What do you want it for?"

"The alliance, of course. I'm in the business of making history, as I told you. Don't open
your mouth quite so wide, please. There's to be a meeting of the wise in this house, after
a dinner, to express favorable opinions about the alliance. Then in a month or two a distinguished
peer, member of the British Cabinet, is coming over to sound the great men on the question....
What are you whistling for?"

"You've got a fine thing, Mrs. Dillon," said he. "By Jove, but I'll help you spread this for
all it's worth."

"Understand," she said, tapping the table with emphasis, "the alliance must go through as far
as we can make it go. Now, do your best. When you go over to see John Everard next, go with
a mind to kill him if he doesn't take your offer to marry his daughter. I'll see to it that
the poem on the Pilgrims does the trick for you."

"I'd have killed him long ago, if I thought it worth the trouble," he said.

He felt that the crisis had come for him and Mona. That charming girl, in spite of his entreaties,
of his threats to go exploring Africa, remained as rigidly faithful to her ideas of duty as
her father to his obstinacy. She would not marry without his consent. With all his confidence
in Anne's cleverness, how could he expect her to do the impossible? To change the unchangeable?
John Everard showed no sign of the influence which had brought Livingstone to his knees, when
Grahame and Mona stood before him, and the lover placed in her father's hands the document
of honor.

"Really, this is wonderful," said Everard, impressed to the point of violence. "You are to
compose and to read the poem on the Pilgrim Fathers?"

"That's the prize," said Grahame severely. He might be squaring off at this man the next moment,
and could not carry his honors lightly. "And now that it has come I want my reward. We must
be married two weeks before I read that poem, and the whole world must see and admire the source
of my inspiration."

He drew his beloved into his arms and kissed her pale cheek.

"Very well. That will be appropriate," the father said placidly, clearing his throat to read
the invitation aloud. He read pompously, quite indifferent to the emotion of his children,
proud that they were to be prominent figures in a splendid gathering. They, beatified, pale,
unstrung by this calm acceptance of what he had opposed bitterly two years, sat down foolishly,
and listened to the pompous utterance of pompous phrases in praise of dead heroes and a living
poet. Thought and speech failed together. If only some desperado would break in upon him and
try to kill him! if the house would take fire, or a riot begin in the street! The old man finished
his reading, congratulated the poet, blessed the pair in the old-fashioned style, informed
his wife of the date of the wedding, and marched off to bed. After pulling at that door for
years it was maddening to have the very frame-work come out as if cemented with butter. What
an outrage to come prepared for heroic action, and to find the enemy turned friend! Oh, admirable
enchantress was this Anne Dillon!

The enchantress, having brought Grahame into line and finally into good humor, took up the
more difficult task of muzzling her stubborn son. To win him to the good cause, she had no
hope; sufficient, if he could be won to silence while diplomacy shaped the course of destiny.

"Better let me be on that point," Arthur said when she made her attack. "I'm hostile only when
disturbed. Lord Conny owns us for the present. I won't say a word to shake his title. Neither
will I lift my eyebrows to help this enterprise."

"If you only will keep quiet," she suggested.

"Well, I'm trying to. I'm set against alliance with England, until we have knocked the devil
out of her, begging your pardon for my frankness. I must speak plainly now so that we may not
fall out afterwards. But I'll be quiet. I'll not say a word to influence a soul. I'll do just
as Ledwith does."

He laughed at the light which suddenly shone in her face.

"That's a fair promise," she said smoothly, and fled before he could add conditions.

Her aim and her methods alike remained hidden from him. He knew only that she was leading them
all by the nose to some brilliant climax of her own devising. He was willing to be led. The
climax turned out to be a dinner. Anne had long ago discovered the secret influence of a fine
dinner on the politics of the world. The halo of a saint pales before the golden nimbus which
well-fed guests see radiating from their hostess after dinner. A good man may possess a few
robust virtues, but the dinner-giver has them all. Therefore, the manager of the alliance gathered
about her table one memorable evening the leaders whose good opinion and hearty support Lord
Constantine valued in his task of winning the Irish to neutrality or favor for his enterprise.
Arthur recognized the climax only when Lord Constantine, after the champagne had sparkled in
the glasses, began to explain his dream to Sullivan.

"What do you think of it?" said he.

"It sounds as harmless as a popgun, and looks like a vision. I don't see any details in your
scheme," said the blunt leader graciously.

"We can leave the details to the framers of the alliance," said His Lordship, uneasy at Arthur's
laugh. "What we want first is a large, generous feeling in its favor, to encourage the leaders."

"Well, in general," said the Boss, "it is a good thing for all countries to live in harmony.
When they speak the same language, it's still better. I have no feeling one way or the other.
I left Ireland young, and would hardly have remembered I'm Irish but for Livingstone. What
do you think of it, Senator?"

"An alliance with England!" cried he with contempt. "Fancy me walking down to a district meeting
with such an auctioneer's tag hanging on my back. Why, I'd be sold out on the spot. Those people
haven't forgot how they were thrown down and thrown out of Ireland. No, sir. Leave us out of
an alliance."

"That's the popular feeling, I think," Sullivan said to His Lordship.

"I can understand the Senator's feelings," the Englishman replied softly. "But if, before the
alliance came to pass, the Irish question should be well settled, how would that affect your
attitude, Senator?"

"My attitude," replied the Senator, posing as he reflected that a budding statesman made the
inquiry, "would be entirely in your favor."

"Thank you. What more could I ask?" Lord Constantine replied with a fierce look at Arthur.
"I say myself, until the Irish get their rights, no alliance."

"Then we are with you cordially. We want to do all we can for a man who has been so fair to
our people," the Boss remarked with the flush of good wine in his cheek. "Champagne sentiments,"
murmured Arthur.

Monsignor, prompted by Anne, came to the rescue of the young nobleman.

"There would be a row, if the matter came up for discussion just now," he said. "Ten years
hence may see a change. There's one thing in favor of Irish ... well, call it neutrality. Speaking
as a churchman, Catholics have a happier lot in English-speaking lands than in other countries.
They have the natural opportunity to develop, they are not hampered in speech and action as
in Italy and France."

"How good of you to say so," murmured His Lordship.

"Then again," continued Monsignor, with a sly glance at Arthur, "it seems to me inevitable
that the English-speaking peoples must come into closer communion, not merely for their own
good, or for selfish aims, but to spread among less fortunate nations their fine political
principles. There's the force, the strength, of the whole scheme. Put poor Ireland on her feet,
and I vote for an alliance."

"Truly, a Daniel come to judgment," murmured Arthur.

"It's a fine view to take of it," the Boss thought.

"Are you afraid to ask Ledwith for an opinion?" Arthur suggested.

"What's he got to do with it?" Everard snapped, unsoftened by the mellow atmosphere of the feast.

"It is no longer a practical question with me," Owen said cheerfully. "I have always said that
if the common people of the British Isles got an understanding of each other, and a better
liking for each other, the end of oppression would come very soon. They are kept apart by the
artificial hindrances raised by the aristocracy of birth and money. The common people easily
fraternize, if they are permitted. See them in this country, living, working, intermarrying,
side by side."

"How will that sound among the brethren?" said Arthur disappointed.

His mother flashed him a look of triumph, and Lord Constantine looked foolishly happy.

"As the utterance of a maniac, of course. Have they ever regarded me as sane?" he answered easily.

"And what becomes of your dream?" Arthur persisted.

"I have myself become a dream," he answered sadly. "I am passing into the land of dreams, of
shadows. My dream was Ireland; a principle that would bring forth its own flower, fruit, and
seed; not a department of an empire. Who knows what is best in this world of change? Some day
men may realize the poet's dream:

    "The parliament of man, the federation of the world."

Arthur surrendered with bad grace. He had expected from Ledwith the last, grand, fiery denunciation
which would have swept the room as a broadside sweeps a deck, and hurled the schemes of his
mother and Lord Constantine into the sea. Sad, sad, to see how champagne can undo such a patriot!
For that matter the golden wine had undone the entire party. Judy declared to her dying day
that the alliance was toasted amid cheers before the close of the banquet; that Lord Constantine
in his delight kissed Anne as she left the room; with many other circumstances too improbable
to find a place in a veracious history. It is a fact, however, that the great scheme which
still agitates the peoples interested, had its success depended on the guests of Anne Dillon,
would have been adopted that night. The dinner was a real triumph.

Unfortunately, dinners do not make treaties; and, as Arthur declared, one dinner is good enough
until a better is eaten. When the member of the British Cabinet came to sit at Anne's table,
if one might say so, the tables were turned. Birmingham instead of Monsignor played the lead;
the man whose practical temperament, financial and political influence, could soothe and propitiate
his own people and interest the moneyed men in the alliance. It was admitted no scheme of this
kind could progress without his aid. He had been reserved for the Cabinet Minister.

No one thought much about the dinner except the hostess, who felt, as she looked down the beautiful
table, that her glory had reached its brilliant meridian. A cabinet minister, a lord, a countess,
a leading Knickerbocker, the head of Tammany, and a few others who did not matter; what a long
distance from the famous cat-show and Mulberry Street! Arthur also looked up the table with
satisfaction. If his part in the play had not been dumb show (by his mother's orders), he would
have quoted the famous grind of the mills of the gods. The two races, so unequally matched
at home, here faced each other on equal ground. Birmingham knew what he had to do.

"I am sure," he said to the cabinet minister, "that in a matter so serious you want absolute
sincerity?"

"Absolute, and thank you," replied the great man.

"Then let me begin with myself. Personally I would not lift my littlest finger to help this
scheme. I might not go out of my way to hinder it, but I am that far Irish in feeling, not
to aid England so finely. For a nation that will soon be without a friend in the world, an
alliance with us would be of immense benefit. No man of Irish blood, knowing what his race
has endured and still endures from the English, can keep his self-respect and back the scheme."

Arthur was sorry for his lordship, who sat utterly astounded and cast down wofully at this
expression of feeling from such a man.

"The main question can be answered in this way," Birmingham continued. "Were I willing to take
part in this business, my influence with the Irish and their descendants, whatever it may be,
would not be able to bring a corporal's guard into line in its behalf."

Lord Constantine opened his mouth, Everard snorted his contempt, but the great man signaled
silence. Birmingham paid no attention.

"In this country the Irish have learned much more than saving money and acquiring power; they
have learned the unredeemed blackness of the injustice done them at home, just as I learned
it. What would Grahame here, Sullivan, Senator Dillon, or myself have been at this moment had
we remained in Ireland? Therefore the Irish in this country are more bitter against the English
government than their brethren at home. I am certain that no man can rally even a minority
of the Irish to the support of the alliance. I am sure I could not. I am certain the formal
proposal of the scheme would rouse them to fiery opposition."

"Remember," Arthur whispered to Everard, raging to speak, "that the Cabinet Minister doesn't
care to hear anyone but Birmingham."

"I'm sorry for you, Conny," he whispered to his lordship, "but it's the truth."

"Never enjoyed anything so much," said Grahame sotto voce, his eyes on Everard.

"However, let us leave the Irish out of the question," the speaker went on. "Or, better, let
us suppose them favorable, and myself able to win them over. What chance has the alliance of
success? None."

"Fudge!" cried Everard, unabashed by the beautiful English stare of the C. M.

"The measure is one-sided commercially. This country has nothing to gain from a scheme, which
would be a mine to England; therefore the moneyed men will not touch it, will not listen to
it. Their time is too valuable. What remains? An appeal to the people on the score of humanity,
brotherhood, progress, what you please? My opinion is that the dead weight there could not
be moved. The late war and the English share in it are too fresh in the public mind. The outlook
to me is utterly against your scheme."

"It might be objected to your view that feeling is too strong an element of it," said the Cabinet
Minister.

"Feeling has only to do with my share in the scheme," Birmingham replied. "As an Irishman I
would not further it, yet I might be glad to see it succeed. My opinion is concerned with the
actual conditions as I see them."

With this remark the formal discussion ended. Mortified at this outcome of his plans, Lord
Constantine could not be consoled.

"As long as Livingstone is on your side, Conny," said Arthur, "you are foredoomed."

"I am not so sure," His Lordship answered with some bitterness. "The Chief Justice of the United
States is a good friend to have."

A thrill shot through Dillon at this emphasis to a rumor hitherto too light for printing. The
present incumbent of the high office mentioned by Lord Constantine lay dying. Livingstone coveted
few places, and this would be one. In so exalted a station he would be "enskied and sainted."
Even his proud soul would not disdain to step from the throne-room of Windsor to the dais of
the Supreme Court of his country. And to strike him in the very moment of his triumph, to snatch
away the prize, to close his career like a broken sentence with a dash and a mark of interrogation,
to bring him home like any dead game in a bag: here would be magnificent justice!

"Have I found thee, O mine enemy?" Arthur cried in his delight.

CHAPTER XXV.

THE CATHEDRAL.

Ledwith was dying in profound depression, like most brave souls, whose success has been partial,
or whose failure has been absolute. This mournful ending to a brave, unselfish life seemed
to Arthur pitiful and monstrous. A mere breathing-machine like himself had enjoyed a stimulating
vengeance for the failure of one part of his life. Oh, how sweet had been that vengeance! The
draught had not yet reached the bottom of the cup! His cause for the moment a ruin, dragged
down with Fenianism; his great enemy stronger, more glorious, and more pitiless than when he
had first raised his hand against her injustice; now the night had closed in upon Ledwith,
not merely the bitter night of sickness and death and failure, but that more savage night of
despondency, which steeps all human sorrow in the black, polluted atmosphere of hell. For such
a sufferer the heart of Arthur Dillon opened as wide as the gates of heaven. Oh, had he not
known what it is to suffer so, without consolation!

He was like a son to Owen Ledwith.

Every plan born in the poetic and fertile brain of the patriot he took oath to carry out; he
vowed his whole life to the cause of Ireland; and he consoled Owen for apparent failure by
showing him that he had not altogether failed, since a man, young, earnest, determined, and
wealthy should take up the great work just where he dropped it. Could any worker ask more of
life? A hero should go to his eternity with lofty joy, leaving his noble example to the mean
world, a reproach to the despicable among rulers, a star in the night to the warriors of justice.

In Honora her father did not find the greatest comfort. His soul was of the earth and human
liberty was his day-star; her soul rose above that great human good to the freedom of heaven.
Her heart ached for him, that he should be going out of life with only human consolation. The
father stood in awe of an affection, which at the same time humbled and exalted him; she had
never loved man or woman like him; he was next to God in that virginal heart, for with all
her love of country, the father had the stronger hold on her. Too spiritual for him, her sublime
faith did not cheer him. Yet when they looked straight into each other's eyes with the consciousness
of what was coming, mutual anguish terribly probed their love. He had no worry for her.

"She has the best of friends," he said to Arthur, "she is capable, and trained to take care
of herself handsomely; but these things will not be of any use. She will go to the convent."

"Not if Lord Constantine can hinder it," Arthur said bluntly.

"I would like to see her in so exalted and happy a sphere as Lord Constantine could give her.
But I am convinced that the man is not born who can win the love of this child of mine. Sir
Galahad might, but not the stuff of which you and I are made."

"I believe you," said Arthur.

Honora herself told him of her future plans, as they sat with the sick man after a trying evening,
when for some hours the end seemed near. The hour invited confidences, and like brother and
sister at the sick-bed of a beloved parent they exchanged them. When she had finished telling
him how she had tried to do her duty to her father, and to her country, and how she had laid
aside her idea of the convent for their sake, but would now take up her whole duty to God by
entering a sisterhood, he said casually:

"It seems to me these three duties work together; and when you were busiest with your father
and your country, then were you most faithful to God."

"Very true," she replied, looking up with surprise. "Obedience is better than sacrifice."

"Take care that you are not deceiving yourself, Honora. Which would cause more pain, to give
up your art and your cause, or to give up the convent?"

"To give up the convent," she replied promptly.

"That looks to me like selfishness," he said gently. "There are many nuns in the convents working
for the wretched and helping the poor and praying for the oppressed, while only a few women
are devoted directly to the cause of freedom. It strikes me that you descend when you retire
from a field of larger scope to one which narrows your circle and diminishes your opportunities.
I am not criticizing the nun's life, but simply your personal scheme."

"And you think I descend?" she murmured with a little gasp of pain. "Why, how can that be?"

"You are giving up the work, the necessary work, which few women are doing, to take up a work
in which many women are engaged," he answered, uncertain of his argument, but quite sure of
his intention. "You lose great opportunities to gain small ones, purely personal. That's the
way it looks to me."

With wonderful cunning he unfolded his arguments in the next few weeks. He appealed to her
love for her father, her wish to see his work continued; he described his own helplessness,
very vaguely though, in carrying out schemes with which he was unacquainted, and to which he
was vowed; he mourned over the helpless peoples of the world, for whom a new community was
needed to fight, as the Knights of St. John fought for Christendom; and he painted with delicate
satire that love of ease which leads heroes to desert the greater work for the lesser on the
plea of the higher life. Selfishly she sought rest, relief for the taxing labors, anxieties,
and journeys of fifteen years, and not the will of God, as she imagined. Was he conscious of
his own motives? Did he discover therein any selfishness? Who can say?

He discoursed at the same time to Owen, and in the same fashion. Ledwith felt that his dreams
were patch work beside the rainbow visions of this California miner, who had the mines which
make the wildest dreams come true sometimes. The wealthy enthusiast might fall, however, into
the hands of the professional patriot, who would bleed him to death in behalf of paper schemes.
To whom could he confide him? Honora! It had always been Honora with him, who could do nothing
without her. He did not wish to hamper her in the last moment, as he had hampered her since
she had first planned her own life.

It was even a pleasant thought for him, to think of his faithful child living her beautiful,
quiet, convent life, after the fatigues and pilgrimages of years, devoted to his memory, mingling
his name with her prayers, innocent of any other love than for him and her Creator. Yes, she
must be free as the air after he died. However, the sick are not masters of their emotions.
A great dread and a great anguish filled him. Would it be his fate to lose Arthur to Ireland
by consideration for others? But he loved her so! How could he bind her in bonds at the very
moment of their bitter separation? He would not do it! He would not do it! He fought down his
own longing until he woke up in a sweat of terror one night, and called to her loudly, fearing
that he would die before he exacted from her the last promise. He must sacrifice all for his
country, even the freedom of his child.

"Honora," he cried, "was I ever faithless to Erin? Did I ever hesitate when it was a question
of money, or life, or danger, or suffering for her sake?"

"Never, father dear," she said, soothing him like a child.

"I have sinned now, then. For your sake I have sinned. I wished to leave you free when I am
gone, although I saw you were still necessary to Eire. Promise me, my child, that you will
delay a little after I am gone, before entering the convent; that you will make sure beforehand
that Erin has no great need of you ... just a month or a year ... any delay----"

"As long as you please, father," she said quietly. "Make it five years if you will----"

"No, no," he interrupted with anguish in his throat. "I shall never demand again from you the
sacrifices of the past. What may seem just to you will be enough. I die almost happy in leaving
Arthur Dillon to carry on with his talent and his money the schemes of which I only dreamed.
But I fear the money patriots will get hold of him and cheat him of his enthusiasm and his
money together. If you were by to let him know what was best to be done--that is all I ask
of you----"

"A year at least then, father dear! What is time to you and me that we should be stingy of
the only thing we ever really possessed."

"And now I lose even that," with a long sigh.

Thus gently and naturally Arthur gained his point.

Monsignor came often, and then oftener when Owen's strength began to fail rapidly. The two
friends in Irish politics had little agreement, but in the gloom of approaching death they
remembered only their friendship. The priest worked vainly to put Owen into a proper frame
of mind before his departure for judgment. He had made his peace with the Church, and received
the last rites like a believer, but with the coldness of him who receives necessities from
one who has wronged him. He was dying, not like a Christian, but like the pagan patriot who
has failed: only the shades awaited him when he fled from the darkness of earthly shame. They
sat together one March afternoon facing the window and the declining sun. To the right another
window gave them a good view of the beautiful cathedral, whose twin spires, many turrets, and
noble walls shone blue and golden in the brilliant light.

"I love to look at it from this elevation," said Monsignor, who had just been discoursing on
the work of his life. "In two years, just think, the most beautiful temple in the western continent
will be dedicated."

"The money that has gone into it would have struck a great blow for Erin," said Ledwith with
a bitter sigh.

"So much of it as escaped the yawning pockets of the numberless patriots," retorted Monsignor
dispassionately. "The money would not have been lost in so good a cause, but its present use
has done more for your people than a score of the blows which you aim at England."

"Claim everything in sight while you are at it," said Owen. "In God's name what connection
has your gorgeous cathedral with any one's freedom?"

"Father dear, you are exciting yourself," Honora broke in, but neither heeded her.

"Christ brought us true freedom," said Monsignor, "and the Church alone teaches, practises,
and maintains it."

"A fine example is provided by Ireland, where to a dead certainty freedom was lost because
the Church had too unnatural a hold upon the people."

"What was lost on account of the faith will be given back again with compound interest. Political
and military movements have done much for Ireland in fifty years; but the only real triumphs,
universal, brilliant, enduring, significant, leading surely up to greater things, have been
won by the Irish faith, of which that cathedral, shining so gloriously in the sun this afternoon,
is both a result and a symbol."

"I believe you will die with that conviction," Ledwith said in wonder.

"I wish you could die with the same, Owen," replied Monsignor tenderly.

They fell silent for a little under the stress of sudden feeling.

"How do men reason themselves into such absurdities?" Owen asked himself.

"You ought to know. You have done it often enough," said the priest tartly.

Then both laughed together, as they always did when the argument became personal.

"Do you know what Livingstone and Bradford and the people whom they represent think of that
temple?" said Monsignor impressively.

"Oh, their opinions!" Owen snorted.

"They are significant," replied the priest. "These two leaders would give the price of the
building to have kept down or destroyed the spirit which undertook and carried out the scheme.
They have said to themselves many times in the last twenty years, while that temple rose slowly
but gloriously into being, what sort of a race is this, so despised and ill-treated, so poor
and ignorant, that in a brief time on our shores can build the finest temple to God which this
country has yet seen? What will the people, to whom we have described this race as sunk in
papistical stupidity, debased, unenterprising, think, when they gaze on this absolute proof
of our mendacity?"

Ledwith, in silence, took a second look at the shining walls and towers.

"Owen, your generous but short-sighted crowd have fought England briefly and unsuccessfully
a few times on the soil of Ireland ... but the children of the faith have fought her with church,
and school, and catechism around the globe. Their banner, around which they fought, was not
the banner of the Fenians but the banner of Christ. What did you do for the scattered children
of the household? Nothing, but collect their moneys. While the great Church followed them everywhere
with her priests, centered them about the temple, and made them the bulwark of the faith, the
advance-guard, in many lands. Here in America, and in all the colonies of England, in Scotland,
even in England itself, wherever the Irish settled, the faith took root and flourished; the
faith which means death to the English heresy, and to English power as far as it rests upon
the heresy."

"The faith kept the people together, scattered all over the world. It organized them, it trained
them, it kept them true to the Christ preached by St. Patrick; it built the fortress of the
temple, and the rampart of the school; it kept them a people apart, it kept them civilized,
saved them from inevitable apostasy, and founded a force from which you collect your revenues
for battle with your enemies; a force which fights England all over the earth night and day,
in legislatures, in literature and journalism, in social and commercial life ... why, man,
you are a fragment, a mere fragment, you and your warriors, of that great fight which has the
world for an audience and the English earths for its stage."

"When did you evolve this new fallacy?" said Ledwith hoarsely.

"You have all been affected with the spirit of the anti-Catholic revolution in Europe, whose
cry is that the Church is the enemy of liberty; yours, that it has been no friend to Irish
liberty. Take another look at that cathedral. When you are dead, and many others that will
live longer, that church will deliver its message to the people who pass: 'I am the child of
the Catholic faith and the Irish; the broad shoulders of America waited for a simple, poor,
cast-out people, to dig me from the earth and shape me into a thing of beauty, a glory of the
new continent; I myself am not new; I am of that race which in Europe speaks in divine language
to you pigmies of the giants that lived in ancient days; I am a new bond between the old continent
and the new, between the old order and the new; I speak for the faith of the past; I voice
the faith of the hour; the hands that raised me are not unskilled and untrained; from what
I am judge, ye people, of what stuff my builders are made.' And around the world, in all the
capitals, in the great cities, of the English-speaking peoples, temples of lesser worth and
beauty, are speaking in the same strain."

Honora anxiously watched her father. A new light shone upon him, a new emotion disturbed him;
perhaps that old hardness within was giving way. Ledwith had the poetic temperament, and the
philosopher's power of generalization. A hint could open a grand horizon before him, and the
cathedral in its solemn beauty was the hint. Of course, he could see it all, blind as he had
been before. The Irish revolution worked fitfully, and exploded in a night, its achievement
measured by the period of a month; but this temple and its thousand sisters lived on doing
their good work in silence, fighting for the truth without noise or conspiracy.

"And this is the glory of the Irish," Monsignor continued, "this is the fact which fills me
with pride, American as I am, in the race whose blood I own; they have preserved the faith
for the great English-speaking world. Already the new principle peculiar to that faith has
begun its work in literature, in art, in education, in social life. Heresy allowed the Christ
to be banished from all the departments of human activity, except the home and the temple.
Christ is not in the schools of the children, nor in the books we read, nor in the pictures
and sculptures of our studios, nor in our architecture, even of the churches, nor in our journalism,
any more than in the market-place and in the government. These things are purely pagan, or
worthless composites. It looks as if the historian of these times, a century or two hence,
will have hard work to fitly describe the Gesta Hibernicorum, when this principle of Christianity
will have conquered the American world as it conquered ancient Europe. I tell you, Owen," and
he strode to the window with hands outstretched to the great building, "in spite of all the
shame and suffering endured for His sake, God has been very good to your people, He is heaping
them with honors. As wide as is the power of England, it is no wider than the influence of
the Irish faith. Stubborn heresy is doomed to fall before the truth which alone can set men
free and keep them so."

Ledwith had begun to tremble, but he said never a word.

"I am prouder to have had a share in the building of that temple," Monsignor continued, "than
to have won a campaign against the English. This is a victory, not of one race over another,
but of the faith over heresy, truth over untruth. It will be the Christ-like glory of Ireland
to give back to England one day the faith which a corrupt king destroyed, for which we have
suffered crucifixion. No soul ever loses by climbing the cross with Christ."

Ledwith gave a sudden cry, and raised his hands to heaven, but grew quiet at once.

The priest watched contentedly the spires of his cathedral.

"You have touched heart and reason together," Honora whispered.

Ledwith remained a long time silent, struggling with a new spirit. At last he turned the wide,
frank eyes on his friend and victor.

"I am conquered, Monsignor."

"Not wholly yet, Owen."

"I have been a fool, a foolish fool,--not to have seen and understood."

"And your folly is not yet dead. You are dying in sadness and despair almost, when you should
go to eternity in triumph."

"I go in triumph! Alas! if I could only be blotted out with my last breath, and leave neither
grave nor memory, it would be happiness. Why do you say, 'triumph'?"

"Because you have been true to your country with the fidelity of a saint. That's enough. Besides
you leave behind you the son born of your fidelity to carry on your work----"

"God bless that noble son," Owen cried.

"And a daughter whose prayers will mount from the nun's cell, to bless your cause. If you could
but go from her resigned!"

"How I wish that I might. I ought to be happy, just for leaving two such heirs, two noble hostages
to Ireland. I see my error. Christ is the King, and no man can better His plans for men. I
surrender to Him."

"But your submission is only in part. You are not wholly conquered."

"Twice have you said that," Owen complained, raising his heavy eyes in reproach.

"Love of country is not the greatest love."

"No, love of the race, of humanity, is more."

"And the love of God is more than either. With all their beauty, what do these abstract loves
bring us? The country we love can give us a grave and a stone. Humanity crucifies its redeemers.

He paused to let his words sink into Ledwith's mind.

"Owen, you are leaving the world oppressed by the hate of a lifetime, the hate ingrained in
your nature, the fatal gift of persecutor and persecuted from the past."

"And I shall never give that up," Owen declared, sitting up and fixing his hardest look on
the priest. "I shall never forget Erin's wrongs, nor Albion's crimes. I shall carry that just
and honorable hate beyond the grave. Oh, you priests!"

"I said you were not conquered. You may hate injustice, but not the unjust. You will find no
hate in heaven, only justice. The persecutors and their victims have long been dead, and judged.
The welcome of the wretched into heaven, the home of justice and love, wiped out all memory
of suffering here, as it will for us all. The justice measured out to their tyrants even you
would be satisfied with. Can your hate add anything to the joy of the blessed, or the woe of
the lost?"

"Nothing," murmured Owen from the pillow, as his eyes looked afar, wondering at that justice
so soon to be measured out to him. "You are again right. Oh, but we are feeble ... but we are
foolish ... to think it. What is our hate any more than our justice ... both impotent and ridiculous."

There followed a long pause, then, for Monsignor had finished his argument, and only waited
to control his own emotion before saying good-by.

"I die content," said Ledwith with a long restful sigh, coming back to earth, after a deep
look into divine power and human littleness. "Bring me to-morrow, and often, the Lord of Justice.
I never knew till now that in desiring Justice so ardently, it was He I desired. Monsignor,
I die content, without hate, and without despair."

If ever a human creature had a foretaste of heaven it was Honora during the few weeks that
followed this happy day. The bitterness in the soul of Owen vanished like a dream, and with
it went regret, and vain longing, and the madness which at odd moments sprang from these emotions.
His martyrdom, so long and ferocious, would end in the glory of a beautiful sunset, the light
of heaven in his heart, shining in his face. He lay forever beyond the fire of time and injustice.

Every morning Honora prepared the little altar in the sick-room, and Monsignor brought the
Blessed Sacrament. Arthur answered the prayers and gazed with awe upon the glorified face of
the father, with something like anger upon the exalted face of the daughter; for the two were
gone suddenly beyond him. Every day certain books provided by Monsignor were read to the dying
man by the daughter or the son; describing the migration of the Irish all over the English-speaking
world, their growth to consequence and power. Owen had to hear the figures of this growth,
see and touch the journals printed by the scattered race, and to hear the editorials which
spoke their success, their assurance, their convictions, their pride.

Then he laughed so sweetly, so naturally, chuckled so mirthfully that Honora had to weep and
thank God for this holy mirthfulness, which sounded like the spontaneous, careless, healthy
mirth of a boy. Monsignor came evenings to explain, interpret, put flesh and life into the
reading of the day with his vivid and pointed comment. Ledwith walked in wonderland. "The hand
of God is surely there," was his one saying. The last day of his pilgrimage he had a long private
talk with Arthur. They had indeed become father and son, and their mutual tenderness was deep.

Honora knew from the expression of the two men that a new element had entered into her father's
happiness.

"I free you from your promise, my child," said Ledwith, "my most faithful, most tender child.
It is the glory of men that the race is never without such children as you. You are free from
any bond. It is my wish that you accept your release."

She accepted smiling, to save him from the stress of emotion. Then he wished to see the cathedral
in the light of the afternoon sun, and Arthur opened the door of the sick-room. The dying man
could see from his pillow the golden spires, and the shining roof, that spoke to him so wonderfully
of the triumph of his race in a new land, the triumph which had been built up in the night,
unseen, uncared for, unnoticed.

"God alone has the future," he said.

Once he looked at Honora, once more, with burning eyes, that never could look enough on that
loved child. With his eyes on the great temple, smiling, he died. They thought he had fallen
asleep in his weakness. Honora took his head in her arms, and Arthur Dillon stood beside her
and wept.

CHAPTER XXVI.

THE FALL OF LIVINGSTONE.

The ending of Quincy Livingstone's career in England promised to be like the setting of the
sun: his glory fading on the hills of Albion only to burn with greater splendor in his native
land: Chief Justice of the Supreme Court! He needed the elevation. True, his career at court
had been delightful, from the English point of view even brilliant; the nobility had made much
of him, if not as much as he had made of the nobility; the members of the government had seriously
praised him, far as they stood from Lord Constantine's theory of American friendship. However
pleasant these things looked to the Minister, of what account could they be to a mere citizen
returning to private life in New York? Could they make up for the failures of the past year
at home, the utter destruction of his pet schemes for the restraint of the Irish in the land
of the Puritans?

What disasters! The alliance thrust out of consideration by the strong hand of Birmingham;
the learned Fritters chased from the platform by cold audiences, and then from the country
by relentless ridicule; Sister Claire reduced to the rank of a tolerated criminal, a ticket-of-leave
girl; and the whole movement discredited! Fortunately these calamities remained unknown in London.

The new honors, however, would hide the failure and the shame. His elevation was certain. The
President had made known his intention, and had asked Minister Livingstone to be ready within
a short time to sail for home for final consultation. His departure from the court of St. James
would be glorious, and his welcome home significant; afterwards his place would be amongst
the stars. He owned the honorable pride that loves power and place, when these are worthy,
but does not seek them. From the beginning the Livingstones had no need to run after office.
It always sought them, receiving as rich a lustre as it gave in the recognition of their worth.
His heart grew warm that fortune had singled him out for the loftiest place in his country's
gift. To die chief-justice atoned for life's shortcomings. Life itself was at once steeped
in the color and perfume of the rose.

Felicitations poured in from the great. The simplicities of life suddenly put on a new charm,
the commonplaces a new emphasis. My Lord Tomnoddy's 'how-de-do' was uttered with feeling, men
took a second look at him, the friends of a season felt a warmth about their language, if not
about the heart, in telling of his coming dignity. The government people shook off their natural
drowsiness to measure the facts, to understand that emotion should have a share in uttering
the words of farewell. "Oh, my dear, DEAR Livingstone!" cried the Premier as he pressed his
hand vigorously at their first meeting after the news had been given out. Society sang after
the same fashion. Who could resist the delight of these things?

His family and friends exulted. Lovable and deep-hearted with them, harsh as he might be with
opponents, their gladness gave him joy. The news spread among the inner circles with due reserve,
since no one forgot the distance between the cup and the lip; but to intimates the appointment
was said to be a certainty, and confirmation by the Senate as sure as anything mortal. Of course
the Irish would raise a clamor, but no arm among them had length or strength enough to snatch
away the prize. Not in many years had Livingstone dipped so deeply into the waters of joy as
in the weeks that followed the advice from the President.

Arthur Dillon knew that mere opposition would not affect Livingstone's chances. His position
was too strong to be stormed, he learned upon inquiry in Washington. The political world was
quiet to drowsiness, and the President so determined in his choice that candidates would not
come forward to embarrass his nominee. The public accepted the rumor of the appointment with
indifference, which remained undisturbed when a second rumor told of Irish opposition. But
for Arthur's determination the selection of a chief-justice would have been as dull as the
naming of a consul to Algiers.

"We can make a good fight," was Grahame's conclusion, "but the field belongs to Livingstone."

"Chance is always kind to the unfit," said Arthur, "because the Irish are good-natured."

"I don't see the connection."

"I should have said, because mankind is so. In this case Quincy gets the prize, because the
Irish think he will get it."

"You speak like the oracle," said Grahame.

"Well, the fight must be made, a stiff one, to the last cartridge. But it won't be enough,
mere opposition. There must be another candidate. We can take Quincy in front; the candidate
can take him in the rear. It must not be seen, only said, that the President surrendered to
Irish pressure. There's the plan: well-managed opposition, and another candidate. We can see
to the first, who will be the other?"

They were discussing that point without fruit when Anne knocked at the door of the study, and
entered in some anxiety.

"Is it true, what I heard whispered," said she, "that they will soon be looking for a minister
to England, that Livingstone is coming back?"

"True, mother dear," and he rose to seat her comfortably. "But if you can find us a chief-justice
the good man will not need to come back. He can remain to help keep patriots in English prisons."

"Why I want to make sure, you know, is that Vandervelt should get the English mission this
time without fail. I wouldn't have him miss it for the whole world."

"There's your man," said Grahame.

"Better than the English mission, mother," Arthur said quickly, "would be the chief-justiceship
for so good a man as Vandervelt. If you can get him to tell his friends he wants to be chief-justice,
I can swear that he will get one place or the other. I know which one he would prefer. No,
not the mission. That's for a few years, forgotten honors. The other's for life, lasting honor.
Oh, how Vandervelt must sigh for that noble dais, the only throne in the Republic, the throne
of American justice. Think, how Livingstone would defile it! The hater and persecutor of a
wronged and hounded race, who begrudges us all but the honors of slavery, how could he understand
and administer justice, even among his own?"

"What are you raving about, Artie?" she complained. "I'll get Vandervelt to do anything if
it's the right thing for him to do; only explain to me what you want done."

He explained so clearly that she was filled with delight. With a quickness which astonished
him, she picked up the threads of the intrigue; some had their beginning five years back, and
she had not forgotten. Suddenly the root of the affair bared itself to her: this son of hers
was doing battle for his own. She had forgotten Livingstone long ago, and therefore had forgiven
him. Arthur had remembered. Her fine spirit stirred dubious Grahame.

"Lave Vandervelt to me," she said, for her brogue came back and gently tripped her at times,
"and do you young men look after Livingstone. I have no hard feelings against him, but, God
forgive me, when I think of Louis Everard, and all that Mary suffered, and Honora, and the
shame put upon us by Sister Claire, something like hate burns me. Anyway we're not worth bein'
tramped upon, if we let the like of him get so high, when we can hinder it."

"Hurrah for the Irish!" cried Grahame, and the two cheered her as she left the room to prepare
for her share of the labor.

The weight of the work lay in the swift and easy formation of an opposition whose strength
and temper would be concealed except from the President, and whose action would be impressive,
consistent, and dramatic. The press was to know only what it wished to know, without provocation.
The main effort should convince the President of the unfitness of one candidate and the fitness
of the other. There were to be no public meetings or loud denunciations. What cared the officials
for mere cries of rage? Arthur found his task delightful, and he worked like a smith at the
forge, heating, hammering, and shaping his engine of war. When ready for action, his mother
had won Vandervelt, convinced him that his bid for the greater office would inevitably land
him in either place. He had faith in her, and she had prophesied his future glory!

Languidly the journals gave out in due time the advent of another candidate for the chief-justiceship,
and also cloudy reports of Irish opposition to Livingstone. No one was interested but John
Everard, still faithful to the Livingstone interest in spite of the gibes of Dillon and Grahame.
The scheme worked so effectively that Arthur did not care to have any interruptions from this
source. The leaders talked to the President singly, in the order of their importance, against
his nominee, on the score of party peace. What need to disturb the Irish by naming a man who
had always irritated and even insulted them? The representation in the House would surely suffer
by his action, because in this way only could the offended people retaliate. They detested
Livingstone.

Day after day this testimony fairly rained upon the President, unanimous, consistent, and increasing
in dignity with time, each protester seeming more important than he who just went out the door.
Inquiries among the indifferent proved that the Irish would give much to see Livingstone lose
the honors. And always in the foreground of the picture of protest stood the popular and dignified
Vandervelt surrounded by admiring friends!

Everard had the knack of ferreting out obscure movements. When this intrigue was laid bare
he found Arthur Dillon at his throat on the morning he had chosen for a visit to the President.
To promise the executive support from a strong Irish group in the appointment of Livingstone
would have been fatal to the opposition. Hence the look which Arthur bestowed on Everard was
as ugly as his determination to put the marplot in a retreat for the insane, if no other plan
kept him at home.

"I want to defeat Livingstone," said Arthur, "and I think I have him defeated. You had better
stay at home. You are hurting a good cause."

"I am going to destroy that good cause," John boasted gayly. "You thought you had the field
to yourself. And you had, only that I discovered your game."

"It's a thing to be proud of," Arthur replied sadly, "this steady support of the man who would
have ruined your boy. Keep quiet. You've got to have the truth rammed down your throat, since
you will take it in no other way. This Livingstone has been plotting against your race for
twenty years. It may not matter to a disposition as crooked as yours, that he opened the eyes
of English government people to the meaning of Irish advance in America, that he is responsible
for Fritters, for the alliance, for McMeeter, for the escaped nun, for her vile Confessions,
for the kidnapping societies here. You are cantankerous enough to forget that he used his position
in London to do us harm, and you won't see that he will do as much with the justiceship. Let
these things pass. If you were a good Catholic one might excuse your devotion to Livingstone
on the score that you were eager to return good for evil. But you're a half-cooked Catholic,
John. Let that pass too. Have you no manhood left in you? Are you short on self-respect? This
man brought out and backed the woman who sought to ruin your son, to break your wife's heart,
to destroy your own happiness. With his permission she slandered the poor nuns with tongue
and pen, a vile woman hired to defile the innocent. And for this man you throw dirt on your
own, for this man you are going to fight your own that he may get honors which he will shame.
Isn't it fair to think that you are going mad, Everard?"

"Don't attempt," said the other in a fury, "to work off your oratory on me. I am going to Washington
to expose your intrigues against a gentleman. What! am I to tremble at your frown----?"

"Rot, man! Who asked you to tremble? I saved your boy from Livingstone, and I shall save you
from yourself, even if I have to put you in an asylum for the harmless insane. Don't you believe
that Livingstone is the patron of Sister Claire? that he is indirectly responsible for that
scandal?"

"I never did, and I never shall," with vehemence. "You are one of those that can prove anything----"

"If you were sure of his responsibility, would you go to Washington?"

"Haven't I the evidence of my own senses? Were not all Livingstone's friends on the committee
which exposed Sister Claire?"

"Because we insisted on that or a public trial, and they came with sour stomachs," said Arthur,
glad that he had begun to discuss the point. "Would you go to Washington if you were sure he
backed the woman?"

"Enough, young man. I'm off for the train. Here, Mary, my satchel----"

Two strong bands were laid on his shoulders, he was pushed back into his chair, and the face
which glowered on him after this astonishing violence for the moment stilled his rage and astonishment.

"Would you go to Washington if you were sure Livingstone backed Sister Claire?" came the relentless
question.

"No, I wouldn't," he answered vacantly.

"Do you wish to be made sure of it?"

He began to turn purple and to bluster.

"Not a word," said his master, "not a cry. Just answer that question. Do you wish to be made
sure of this man's atrocious guilt and your own folly?"

"I want to know what is the meaning of this," Everard sputtered, "this violence? In my own
house, in broad day, like a burglar."

"Answer the question."

Alarm began to steal over Everard, who was by no means a brave man. Had Arthur Dillon, always
a strange fellow, gone mad? Or was this scene a hint of murder? The desperate societies to
which Dillon was said to belong often indulged in violence. It had never occurred to him before
that these secret forces must be fighting Livingstone through Dillon. They would never permit
him to use his influence at Washington in the Minister's behalf. Dreadful! He must dissemble.

"If you can make me sure, I am willing," he said meekly.

"Read that, then," and Arthur placed his winning card, as he thought, in his hands; the private
confession of Sister Claire as to the persons who had assisted her in her outrageous schemes;
and the chief, of course, was Livingstone. Everard read it with contempt.

"Legally you know what her testimony is worth," said he.

"You accepted her testimony as to her own frauds, and so did the whole committee."

"We had to accept the evidence of our own senses."

Obstinate to the last was Everard.

"You will not be convinced," said Arthur rudely, "but you can be muzzled. I say again: keep
away from Washington, and keep your hands off my enterprise. You have some idea of what happens
to men like you for interfering. If I meet you in Washington, or find any trace of your meddling
in the matter, here is what I shall do; this whole scandal of the escaped nun shall be reopened,
this confession shall be printed, and the story of Louis' adventure, from that notable afternoon
at four o'clock until his return, word for word, with portraits of his interesting family,
of Sister Claire, all the details, will be given to the journals. Do you understand? Meanwhile,
study this problem in psychology: how long will John Everard be able to endure life after I
tell the Irish how he helped to enthrone their bitterest enemy?"

He did not wait for an answer, but left the baffled man to wrestle with the situation, which
must have worsted him, for his hand did not appear in the game at Washington. Very smoothly
the plans of Arthur worked to their climax. The friends of Vandervelt pressed his cause as
urgently and politely as might be, and with increasing energy as the embarrassment of the President
grew. The inherent weakness of Vandervelt's case appeared to the tireless Dillon more appalling
in the last moments than at the beginning: the situation had no logical outcome. It was merely
a question whether the President would risk a passing unpopularity.

He felt the absence of Birmingham keenly, the one man who could say to the executive with authority,
this appointment would be a blunder. Birmingham being somewhere on the continent, out of reach
of appeals for help, his place was honorably filled by the General of the Army, with an influence,
however, purely sentimental. Arthur accompanied him for the last interview with the President.
Only two days intervened before the invitation would be sent to Livingstone to return home.
The great man listened with sympathy to the head of the army making his protest, but would
promise nothing; he had fixed an hour however for the settlement of the irritating problem;
if they would call the next morning at ten, he would give them his unalterable decision.

Feeling that the decision must be against his hopes, Arthur passed a miserable night prowling
with Grahame about the hotel. Had he omitted any point in the fight? Was there any straw afloat
which could be of service? Doyle used his gift of poetry to picture for him the return of Livingstone,
and his induction into office; the serenity of mind, the sense of virtue and patriotism rewarded,
his cold contempt of the defeated opposition and their candidate, the matchless dignity, which
would exalt Livingstone to the skies as the Chief-Justice. Their only consolation was the fight
itself, which had shaken for a moment the edifice of the Minister's fame.

The details went to London from friends close to the President, and enabled Livingstone to
measure the full strength of a young man's hatred. The young man should be attended to after
the struggle. There was no reason to lose confidence. While the factions were still worrying,
the cablegram came with the request that he sail on Saturday for home, the equivalent of appointment.
When reading it at the Savage Club, whither a special messenger had followed him, the heavy
mustache and very round spectacles of Birmingham rose up suddenly before him, and they exchanged
greetings with the heartiness of exiles from the same land. The Minister remembered that his
former rival had no share in the attempt to deprive him of his coming honors, and Birmingham
recalled the rumor picked up that day in the city.

"I suppose there's no truth in it," he said.

The Minister handed him the cablegram.

"Within ten days," making a mental calculation, "I should be on my way back to London, with
the confirmation of the Senate practically secured."

"When it comes I shall be pleased to offer my congratulations," Birmingham replied, and the
remark slightly irritated Livingstone.

Could he have seen what happened during the next few hours his sleep would have lost its sweetness.
Birmingham went straight to the telegraph office, and sent a cipher despatch to his man of
business, ordering him to see the President that night in Washington, and to declare in his
name, with all the earnestness demanded by the situation, that the appointment of Livingstone
would mean political death to him and immense embarrassment to his party for years. As it would
be three in the morning before a reply would reach London, Birmingham went to bed with a good
conscience. Thus, while the two young men babbled all night in the hotel, and thought with
dread of the fatal hour next morning, wire, and train, and business man flew into the capital
and out of it, carrying one man's word in and another man's glory out, fleet, silent, unrecognized,
unhonored, and unknown.

At breakfast Birmingham read the reply from his business man with profound satisfaction. At
breakfast the Minister read a second cablegram with a sudden recollection of Birmingham's ominous
words the night before. He knew that he would need no congratulations, for the prize had been
snatched away forever. The cablegram informed him that he should not sail on Saturday, and
that explanations would follow. For a moment his proud heart failed him. Bitterness flowed
in on him, so that the food in his mouth became tasteless. What did he care that his enemies
had triumphed? Or, that he had been overthrown? The loss of the vision which had crowned his
life, and made a hard struggle for what he thought the fit and right less sordid, even beautiful;
that was a calamity.

He had indulged it in spite of mental protests against the dangerous folly. The swift imagination,
prompted by all that was Livingstone in him, had gone over the many glories of the expected
dignity; the departure from beautiful and flattering England, the distinction of the return
to his beloved native land, the splendid interval before the glorious day, the crowning honors
amid the applause of his own, and the long sweet afternoon of life, when each day would bring
its own distinction! He had had his glimpse of Paradise. Oh, never, never would life be the
same for him! He began to study the reasons for his ill-success....

At ten o'clock that day the President informed the General of the Army in Mr. Dillon's presence
that he had sent the name of Hon. Van Rensselaer Vandervelt to the Senate for the position
of Chief-Justice!

THE TEST OF DISAPPEARANCE.

CHAPTER XXVII.

A PROBLEM OF DISAPPEARANCE.

After patient study of the disappearance of Horace Endicott, for five years, Richard Curran
decided to give up the problem. All clues had come to nothing. Not the faintest trace of the
missing man had been found. His experience knew nothing like it. The money earned in the pursuit
would never repay him for the loss of self-confidence and of nerve, due to study and to ill
success. But for his wife he would have withdrawn long ago from the search.

"Since you have failed," she said, "take up my theory. You will find that man in Arthur Dillon."

"That's the strongest reason for giving up," he replied. "Once before I felt my mind going
from insane eagerness to solve the problem. It would not do to have us both in the asylum at once."

"I made more money in following my instincts, Dick, than you have made in chasing your theories.
Instinct warned me years ago that Arthur Dillon is another than what he pretends. It warns
me now that he is Horace Endicott. At least before you give up for good, have a shy at my theory."

"Instinct! Theory! It is pure hatred. And the hate of a woman can make her take an ass for Apollo."

"No doubt I hate him. Oh, how I hate that man ... and young Everard...."

"Or any man that escapes you," he filled in with sly malice.

"Be careful, Dick," she screamed at him, and he apologized. "That hate is more to me than my
child. It will grow big enough to kill him yet. But apart from hate, Arthur Dillon is not the
man he seems. I could swear he is Horace Endicott. Remember all I have told you about his return.
He came back from California about the time Endicott disappeared. I was playing Edith Conyngham
then with great success, though not to crowded houses."

She laughed heartily at the recollection.

"I remarked to myself even then that Anne Dillon ... she's the choice hypocrite ... did not
seem easy in showing the letter which told of his coming back, how sorry he was for his conduct,
how happy he would make her with the fortune he had earned."

"All pure inference," said Curran. "Twenty men arrived home in New York about the same time
with fortunes from the mines, and some without fortunes from the war."

"Then how do you account for this, smart one? Never a word of his life in California from that
day to this. Mind that. No one knows, or seems to know, just where he had been, just how he
got his money ... you understand ... all the little bits o' things that are told, and guessed,
and leak out in a year. I asked fifty people, I suppose, and all they knew was: California.
You'd think Judy Haskell knew, and she told me everything. What had she to tell? that no one
dared to ask him about such matters."

"Dillon is a very close man."

"Endicott had to be among that long-tongued Irish crowd. I watched him. He was stupid at first
... stuck to the house ... no one saw him for weeks ... except the few. He listened and watched
... I saw him ... his eyes and his ears ought to be as big as a donkey's from it ... and he
said nothing. They made excuses for a thing that everyone saw and talked about. He was ill.
I say he wanted to make no mistakes; he was learning his part; there was nothing of the Irish
in him, only the sharp Yankee. It made me wonder for weeks what was wrong. He looked as much
like the boy that ran away as you do. And then I had no suspicions, mind you. I believed Anne
Dillon's boy had come back with a fortune, and I was thinking how I could get a good slice of it."

"And you didn't get a cent," Curran remarked.

"He hated me from the beginning. It takes one that is playing a part to catch another in the
same business. After a while he began to bloom. He got more Irish than the Irish. There's no
Yankee living, no Englishman, can play the Irishman. He can give a good imitation maybe, d'ye
hear? That's what Dillon gave. He did everything that young Dillon used to do before he left
home ... a scamp he was too. He danced jigs, flattered the girls, chummed with the ditch-diggers
and barkeepers ... and he hated them all, women and men. The Yankees hate the Irish as easy
as they breathe. I tell you he had forgotten nothing that he used to do as a boy. And the fools
that looked on said, oh, it's easy to see he was sick, for now that he is well we can all recognize
our old dare-devil, Arthur."

"He's dare-devil clear enough," commented her husband.

"First point you've scored," she said with contempt. "Horace Endicott was a milksop: to run
away when he should have killed the two idiots. Dillon is a devil, as I ought to know. But
the funniest thing was his dealings with his mother. She was afraid of him ... as much as I
am ... she is till this minute. Haven't I seen her look at him, when she dared to say a sharp
thing? And she's a good actress, mind you. It took her years to act as a mother can act with
a son."

"Quite natural, I think. He went away a boy, came back a rich man, and was able to boss things,
having the cash."

"You think! You! I've seen ten years of your thinking! Well, I thought too. I saw a chance
for cash, where I smelled a mystery. Do you know that he isn't a Catholic? Do you know that
he's strange to all Catholic ways? that he doesn't know how to hear Mass, to kneel when he
enters a pew, to bless himself when he takes the holy water at the door? Do you know that he
never goes to communion? And therefore he never goes to confession. Didn't I watch for years,
so that I might find out what was wrong with him, and make some money?"

"All that's very plausible," said her husband. "Only, there are many Catholics in this town,
and in particular the Californians, that forgot as much as he forgot about their religion,
and more."

"But he is not a Catholic," she persisted. "There's an understanding between him and Monsignor
O'Donnell. They exchange looks when they meet. He visits the priest when he feels like it,
but in public they keep apart. Oh, all round, that Arthur Dillon is the strangest fellow; but
he plays his part so well that fools like you, Dick, are tricked."

"You put a case well, Dearie. But it doesn't convince me. However," for he knew her whim must
be obeyed, "I don't mind trying again to find Horace Endicott in this Arthur Dillon."

"And of course," with a sneer, "you'll begin with the certainty that there's nothing in the
theory. What can the cleverest man discover, when he's sure beforehand that there's nothing
to discover?"

"My word, Colette, if I take up the matter, I'll convince you that you're wrong, or myself
that you're right. And I'll begin right here this minute. I believe with you that we have found
Endicott at last. Then the first question I ask myself is: who helped Horace Endicott to become
Arthur Dillon?"

"Monsignor O'Donnell of course," she answered.

"Then Endicott must have known the priest before he disappeared: known him so as to trust him,
and to get a great favor from him? Now, Sonia didn't know that fact."

"That fool of a woman knows nothing, never did, never will," she snapped.

"Well, for the sake of peace let us say he was helped by Monsignor, and knew the priest a little
before he went away. Monsignor helped him to find his present hiding-place; quite naturally
he knew Mrs. Dillon, how her son had gone and never been heard of: and he knew it would be
a great thing for her to have a son with an income like Endicott's. The next question is: how
many people know at this moment who Dillon really is?"

"Just two, sir. He's a fox ... they're three foxes ... Monsignor, Anne Dillon, and Arthur himself.
I know, for I watched 'em all, his uncle, his friends, his old chums ... the fellows he played
with before he ran away ... and no one knows but the two that had to know ... sly Anne and
smooth Monsignor. They made the money that I wasn't smart enough to get hold of."

"Then the next question is: is it worth while to make inquiries among the Irish, his friends
and neighbors, the people that knew the real Dillon?"

"You won't find out any more than I've told you, but you may prove how little reason they have
for accepting him as the boy that ran away."

"After that it would be necessary to search California."

"Poor Dick," she interrupted with compassion, smoothing his beard. "You are really losing your
old cleverness. Search California! Can't you see yet the wonderful 'cuteness of this man, Endicott?
He settled all that before he wrote the letter to Anne Dillon, saying that her son was coming
home. He found out the career of Arthur Dillon in California. If he found that runaway he sent
him off to Australia with a lump of money, to keep out of sight for twenty years. Did the scamp
need much persuading? I reckon not. He had been doing it for nothing ten years. Or, perhaps
the boy was dead: then he had only to make the proper connections with his history up to the
time of his death. Or he may have disappeared forever, and that made the matter all the simpler
for Endicott. Oh, you're not clever, Dick," and she kissed him to sweeten the bitterness of
the opinion.

"I'm not convinced," he said cheerfully. "Then tell me what to do."

"I don't know myself. Endicott took his money with him. Where does Arthur Dillon keep his money?
How did it get there? Where was it kept before that? How is he spending it just now? Does he
talk in his sleep? Are there any mementoes of his past in his private boxes? Could he be surprised
into admissions of his real character by some trick, such as bringing him face to face on a
sudden with Sonia? Wouldn't that be worth seeing? Just like the end of a drama. You know the
marks on Endicott's body, birthmarks and the like ... are they on Dillon's body? The boy that
ran away must have had some marks.... Judy Haskell would know ... are they on Endicott's body?"

"You've got the map of the business in that pretty head perfect," said Curran in mock admiration.
"But don't you see, my pet, that if this man is as clever as you would have him he has already
seen to these things? He has removed the birthmarks and peculiarities of Horace, and adopted
those of Arthur? You'll find it a tangled business the deeper you dive into it."

"Well, it's your business to dive deeper than the tangle," she answered crossly. "If I had
your practice----"

"You would leave me miles behind, of course. Here's the way I would reason about this thing:
Horace Endicott is now known as Arthur Dillon; he has left no track by which Endicott can be
traced to his present locality; but there must be a very poor connection between the Dillon
at home and the real Dillon in California, in Australia, or in his grave; if we can trace the
real Arthur Dillon then we take away the foundations of his counterfeit. Do you see? I say
a trip to California and a clean examination there, after we have done our best here to pick
flaws in the position of the gentleman who has been so cruel to my pet. He must get his punishment
for that, I swear."

"Ah, there's the rub," she whimpered in her childish way. "I hate him, and I love him. He's
the finest fellow in the world. He has the strength of ten. See how he fought the battles of
the Irish against his own. One minute I could tear him like a wolf, and now I could let him
tear me to pieces. You are fond of him too, Dick."

"I would follow him to the end of the world, through fire and flood and fighting," said the
detective with feeling. "He loves Ireland, he loves and pities our poor people, he is spending
his money for them. But I could kill him just the same for his cruelty to you. He's a hard
man, Colette."

"Now I know what you are trying to do," she said sharply. "You think you can frighten me by
telling me what I know already. Well, you can't."

"No, no," he protested, "I was thinking of another thing. We'll come to the danger part later.
There is one test of this man that ought to be tried before all others. When I have sounded
the people about Arthur Dillon, and am ready for California, Sonia Endicott should be brought
here to have a good look at him in secret first; and then, perhaps, in the open, if you thought
well of it."

"Why shouldn't I think well of it? But will it do any good, and mayn't it do harm? Sonia has
no brains. If you can't see any resemblance between Arthur and the pictures of Horace Endicott,
what can Sonia see?"

"The eyes of hate, and the eyes of love," said he sagely.

"Then I'd be afraid to bring them together," she admitted whispering again, and cowering into
his arms. "If he suspects I am hunting him down, he will have no pity."

"No doubt of it," he said thoughtfully. "I have always felt the devil in him. Endicott was
a fat, gay, lazy sport, that never so much as rode after the hounds. Now Arthur Dillon has
had his training in the mines. That explains his dare-devil nature."

"And Horace Endicott was betrayed by the woman he loved," she cried with sudden fierceness.
"That turns a man sour quicker than all the mining-camps in the world. That made him lean and
terrible like a wolf. That sharpened his teeth, and gave him a taste for woman's blood. That's
why he hates me."

"You're wrong again, my pet. He has a liking for you, but you spoil it by laying hands on his
own. You saw his looks when he was hunting for young Everard."

"Oh, how he frightens me," and she began to walk the room in a rage. "How I would like to throw
off this fear and face him and fight him, as I face you. I'll do it if the terror kills me.
I shall not be terrified by any man. You shall hunt him down, Dick Curran. Begin at once. When
you are ready send for Sonia. I'll bring them together myself, and take the responsibility.
What can he do but kill me?"

Sadness came over the detective as she returned to her seat on his knee.

"He is not the kind, little girl," said he, "that lays hands on a woman or a man outside of
fair, free, open fight before the whole world."

"What do you mean?" knowing very well what he meant.

"If he found you on his trail," with cunning deliberation, so that every word beat heart and
brain like a hammer, "and if he is really Horace Endicott, he would only have to give your
character and your address----"

"To the dogs," she shrieked in a sudden access of horror.

Then she lay very still in his arms, and the man laughed quietly to himself, sure that he had
subdued her and driven her crazy scheme into limbo. The wild creature had one dread and by
reason of it one master. Never had she been so amenable to discipline as under Dillon's remote
and affable authority. Curran had no fear of consequences in studying the secret years of Arthur
Dillon's existence. The study might reveal things which a young man preferred to leave in the
shadows, but would not deliver up to Sonia her lost Horace; and even if Arthur came to know
what they were doing, he could smile at Edith's vagaries.

"What shall we do?" he ventured to say at last.

"Find Horace Endicott in Arthur Dillon," was the unexpected answer, energetic, but sighed rather
than spoken. "I fear him, I love him, I hate him, and I'm going to destroy him before he destroys
me. Begin to-night."

CHAPTER XXVIII.

A FIRST TEST.

Curran could not study the Endicott problem. His mind had lost edge in the vain process, getting
as confused over details as the experimenter in perpetual motion after an hundred failures.
In favor of Edith he said to himself that her instincts had always been remarkable, always
helpful; and her theory compared well with the twenty upon which he had worked years to no
purpose. Since he could not think the matter out, he went straight on in the fashion which
fancy had suggested. Taking it for granted that Dillon and Endicott were the same man, he must
establish the connection; that is, discover the moment when Horace Endicott passed from his
own into the character of Arthur Dillon.

Two persons would know the fact: Anne Dillon and her son. Four others might have knowledge
of it; Judy, the Senator, Louis, and Monsignor. A fifth might be added, if the real Arthur
Dillon were still living in obscurity, held there by the price paid him for following his own
whim. Others would hardly be in the secret. The theory was charming in itself, and only a woman
like Edith, whose fancy had always been sportive, would have dreamed it. The detective recalled
Arthur's interest in his pursuit of Endicott; then the little scenes on board the Arrow; and
grew dizzy to think of the man pursued comparing his own photograph with his present likeness,
under the eyes of the detective who had grown stale in the chase of him.

He knew of incidents quite as remarkable, which had a decent explanation afterwards, however.
He went about among the common people of Cherry Hill, who had known Arthur Dillon from his
baptism, had petted him every week until he disappeared, and now adored him in his success.
He renewed acquaintance with them, and heaped them with favors. Loitering about in their idling
places, he threw out the questions; hints, surmises, which might bring to the surface their
faith in Arthur Dillon. He reported the result to Edith.

"Not one of them" said he, "but would go to court and swear a bushel of oaths that Arthur Dillon
is the boy who ran away. They have their reasons too; how he dances, and sings, and plays the
fiddle, and teases the girls, just as he did when a mere strip of a lad; how the devil was
always in him for doing the thing that no one looked for; how he had no fear of even the priest,
or of the wildest horse; and sought out terrible things to do and to dare, just as now he shakes
up your late backers, bishops, ministers, ambassadors, editors, or plots against England; all
as if he earned a living that way."

She sneered at this bias, and bade him search deeper.

It was necessary to approach the Senator on the matter. He secured from him a promise that
their talk would remain a secret, not only because the matter touched one very dear to the
Senator, but also because publicity might ruin the detective himself. If the Senator did not
care to give his word, there would be no talk, but his relative might also be exposed to danger.
The Senator was always gracious with Curran.

"Do you know anything about Arthur's history in California?" and his lazy eyes noted every
change in the ruddy, handsome face.

"Never asked him but one question about it. He answered that straight, and never spoke since
about it. Nothing wrong, I hope?" the Senator answered with alarm.

"Lots, I guess, but I don't know for sure. Here are the circumstances. Think them out for yourself.
A crowd of sharp speculators in California mines bought a mine from Arthur Dillon when he was
settling up his accounts to come home to his mother. As trouble arose lately about that mine,
they had to hunt up Arthur Dillon. They send their agent to New York, he comes to Arthur, and
has a talk with him. Then he goes back to his speculators, and declares to them that this Arthur
Dillon is not the man who sold the mine. So the company, full of suspicion, offers me the job
of looking up the character of Arthur, and what he had been doing these ten years. They say
straight out that the real Arthur Dillon has been put out of the way, and that the man who
is holding the name and the stakes here in New York is a fraud."

This bit of fiction relieved the Senator's mind.

"A regular cock-and-bull story," said he with indignation. "What's their game? Did you tell
them what we think of Artie? Would his own mother mistake him? Or even his uncle? If they're
looking for hurt, tell them they're on the right road."

"No, no," said Curran, "these are straight men. But if doubt is cast on a business transaction,
they intend to clear it away. It would be just like them to bring suit to establish the identity
of Arthur with the Arthur Dillon who sold them the mine. Now, Senator, could you go into court
and swear positively that the young man who came back from California five years ago is the
nephew who ran away from home at the age of fifteen?"

"Swear it till I turned blue; why, it's foolish, simply foolish. And every man, woman, and
child in the district would do the same. Why don't you go and talk with Artie about it?"

"Because the company doesn't wish to make a fuss until they have some ground to walk on," replied
Curran easily. "When I tell them how sure the relatives and friends of Arthur are about his
identity, they may drop the affair. But now, Senator, just discussing the thing as friends,
you know, if you were asked in court why you were so sure Arthur is your nephew, what could
you tell the court?"

"If the court asked me how I knew my mother was my mother----"

"That's well enough, I know. But in this case Arthur was absent ten years, in which time you
never saw him, heard of him, or from him."

"Good point," said the Senator musingly. "When Artie came home from California, he was sick,
and I went to see him. He was in bed. Say, I'll never forget it, Curran. I saw Pat sick once
at the same age ... Pat was his father, d'ye see?... and here was Pat lying before me in the
bed. I tell you it shook me. I never thought he'd grow so much like his father, though he has
the family features. Know him to be Pat's son? Why, if he told me himself he was any one else,
I wouldn't believe him."

Evidently the Senator knew nothing of Horace Endicott and recognised Arthur Dillon as his brother's
son. The detective was not surprised; neither was Edith at the daily report.

"There isn't another like him on earth," she said with the pride of a discoverer. "Keep on
until you find his tracks, here or in California."

Curran had an interesting chat with Judy Haskell on a similar theme, but with a different excuse
from that which roused the Senator. The old lady knew the detective only as Arthur's friend.
He approached her mysteriously, with a story of a gold mine awaiting Arthur in California,
as soon as he could prove to the courts that he was really Arthur Dillon. Judy began to laugh.
"Prove that he's Arthur Dillon! Faith, an' long I'd wait for a gold mine if I had to prove
I was Judy Haskell. How can any one prove themselves to be themselves, Misther Curran? Are
the courts goin' crazy?"

The detective explained what evidence a court would accept as proof of personality.

"Well, Arthur can give that aisy enough," said she.

"But he won't touch the thing at all, Mrs. Haskell. He was absent ten years, and maybe he doesn't
want that period ripped up in a court. It might appear that he had a wife, you know, or some
other disagreeable thing might leak out. When the lawyers get one on the witness stand, they
make hares of him."

"Sure enough," said Judy thoughtfully. Had she not suggested this very suspicion to Anne? The
young are wild, and even Arthur could have slipped from grace in that interval of his life.
Curran hoped that Arthur could prove his identity without exposing the secrets of the past.

"For example," said he smoothly, with an eye for Judy's expression, "could you go to court
to-morrow and swear that Arthur is the same lad that ran away from his mother fifteen years ago?"

"I cud swear as manny oaths on that point as there are hairs in yer head," said Judy.

"And what would you say, Mrs. Haskell, if the judge said to you: Now, madam, it's very easy
for you to say you know the young man to be the same person as the runaway boy; but how do
you know it? what makes you think you know it?"

"I'd say he was purty sassy, indade. Of coorse I'd say that to meself, for ye can't talk to
a judge as aisy an' free as to a lawyer. Well, I'd say manny pleasant things. Arthur was gone
tin years, but I knew him an' he knew me the minute we set eyes on aich other. Then, agin,
I knew him out of his father. He doesn't favor the mother at all, for she's light an' he's
dark. There's a dale o' the Dillon in him. Then, agin, how manny things he tould me of the
times we had together, an' he even asked me if Teresa Flynn, his sweetheart afore he wint off,
was livin' still. Oh, as thrue as ye're sittin' there! Poor thing, she was married. An' he
remembered how fond he was o' rice puddin' ice cold. An' he knew Louis Everard the minute he
shtud forninst him in the door. But what's the use o' talkin'? I cud tell ye for hours all
the things he said an' did to show he was Arthur Dillon."

"Has he any marks on his body that would help to identify him, if he undertook to get the gold
mine that belongs to him?"

"Artie had only wan mark on him as a boy ... he was the most spotless child I ever saw ...
an' that was a mole on his right shoulder. He tuk it wid him to California, an' he brought
it back, for I saw it meself in the same spot while he was sick, an' I called his attintion
to it, an' he was much surprised, for he had never thought of it wanst."

"It's my opinion," said Curran solemnly, "that he can prove his identity without exposing his
life in the west. I hope to persuade him to it. Maybe the photographs of himself and his father
would help. Have you any copies of them?"

"There's jist two. I wudn't dare to take thim out of his room, but if ye care to walk up-stairs,
Mr. Curran, an' luk at thim there, ye're welcome. He an' his mother are away the night to a
gran' ball."

They entered Arthur's apartments together, and Judy showed the pictures of Arthur Dillon as
a boy of fourteen, and of his youthful father; old daguerreotypes, but faithful and clear as
a likeness. Judy rattled on for an hour, but the detective had achieved his object. She had
no share in the secret.

Arthur Dillon was his father's son, for her. He studied the pictures, and carefully examined
the rooms, his admiration provoking Judy into a display of their beauties. With the skill and
satisfaction of an artist in man-hunting, he observed how thoroughly the character of the young
man displayed itself in the trifles of decoration and furnishing.

The wooden crucifix with the pathetic figure in bronze on the wall over the desk, the holy
water stoup at the door, carved figures of the Holy Family, a charming group, on the desk,
exquisite etchings of the Christ and the Madonna after the masters, a prie-dieu in the inner
room with a group of works of devotion: and Edith had declared him no Catholic. Here was the
refutation.

"He is a pious man," Curran said.

"And no wan sees it but God and himself. So much the betther, I say," Judy remarked. "Only
thim that had sorra knows how to pray, an' he prays like wan that had his fill of it."

The tears came into the man's eyes at the indications of Arthur's love for poor Erin. Hardness
was the mark of Curran, and sin had been his lifelong delight; but for his country he had kept
a tenderness and devotion that softened and elevated his nature at times. Of little use and
less honor to his native land, he felt humbled in this room, whose books, pictures, and ornaments
revealed thought and study in behalf of a harried and wretched people, yet the student was
not a native of Ireland. It seemed profane to set foot here, to spy upon its holy privacy.
He felt glad that its details gave the lie so emphatically to Edith's instincts.

The astonishing thing was the absence of Californian relics and mementoes. Some photographs
and water colors, whose names Curran mentally copied for future use, pictured popular scenes
on the Pacific slope; but they could be bought at any art store. Surely his life in the mines,
with all the luck that had come to him, must have held some great bitterness, that he never
spoke of it casually, and banished all remembrances.

That would come up later, but Curran had made up his mind that no secret of Arthur's life should
ever see the light because he found it. Not even vengeful Edith, and she had the right to hate
her enemy, should wring from him any disagreeable facts in the lad's career. So deeply the
detective respected him!

In the place of honor, at the foot of his bed, where his eyes rested on them earliest and latest,
hung a group of portraits in oil, in the same frame, of Louis the beloved, from his babyhood
to the present time: on the side wall hung a painting of Anne in her first glory as mistress
of the new home in Washington Square; opposite, Monsignor smiled down in purple splendor; two
miniatures contained the grave, sweet, motherly face of Mary Everard and the auburn hair and
lovely face of Mona.

"There are the people he loves," said Curran with emotion.

"Ay, indade," Judy said tenderly, "an' did ever a wild boy like him love his own more? Night
an' day his wan thought is of them. The sun rises an' sets for him behind that picther there,"
pointing to Louis' portraits. "If annythin' had happened to that lovely child last Spring he'd
a-choked the life out o' wan woman wid his own two hands. He's aisy enough, God knows, but
I'd rather jump into the say than face him when the anger is in him."

"He's a terrible man," said Curran, repeating Edith's phrase.

He examined some manuscript in Arthur's handwriting. How different from the careless scrawl
of Horace Endicott this clear, bold, dashing script, which ran full speed across the page,
yet turned with ease and leisurely from the margin. What a pity Edith could not see with her
own eyes these silent witnesses to the truth. Beyond the study was a music-room, where hung
his violin over some scattered music. Horace Endicott hated the practising of the art, much
as he loved the opera. It was all very sweet, just what the detective would have looked for,
beautiful to see. He could have lingered in the rooms and speculated on that secret and manly
life, whose currents were so feebly but shiningly indicated in little things. It occurred to
him that copies of the daguerreotypes, Arthur at fourteen and his father at twenty-five, would
be of service in the search through California. He spoke of it to Judy.

"Sure that was done years ago," said Judy cautiously. "Anne Dillon wouldn't have it known for
the world, ye see, but I know that she sint a thousand o' thim to the polis in California;
an' that's the way she kem across the lad. Whin he found his mother shtill mournin' him, he
wrote to her that he had made his pile an' was comin' home. Anne has the pride in her, an'
she wants all the world to believe he kem home of himself, d'ye see? Now kape that a secret, mind."

"And do you never let on what I've been telling you," said Curran gravely. "It may come to
nothing, and it may come to much, but we must be silent."

She had given her word, and Judy's word was like the laws of the Medes and Persians. Curran
rejoiced at the incident of the daguerreotypes, which anticipated his proposed search in California.
Vainly however did he describe the result of his inquiry for Edith. She would have none of
his inferences. He must try to entrap Anne Dillon and the priest, and afterwards he might scrape
the surface of California.

CHAPTER XXIX.

THE NERVE OF ANNE.

Curran laid emphasis in his account to his wife on the details of Arthur's rooms, and on the
photographs which had helped to discover the lost boy in California. Edith laughed at him.

"Horace Endicott invented that scheme of the photographs," said she. "The dear clever boy!
If he had been the detective, not a stupid like you! I saw Arthur Dillon in church many times
in four years, and I tell you he is not a Catholic born, no matter what you saw in his rooms.
He's playing the part of Arthur Dillon to the last letter. Don't look at me that way, Dick
or I'll scratch your face. You want to say that I am crazy over this theory, and that I have
an explanation ready for all your objections."

"I have nothing to say, I am just working on your lines, dearie," he replied humbly.

"Just now your game is busy with an affair of the heart. He won't be too watchful, unless,
as I think, he's on our tracks all the time. You ought to get at his papers."

"A love affair! Our tracks!" Curran repeated in confusion.

"Do you think you can catch a man like Arthur napping?" she sneered. "Is there a moment in
the last four years that he has been asleep? See to it that you are not reported to him every
night. But if he is in love with Honora Ledwith, there's a chance that he won't see or care
to see what you are doing. She's a lovely girl. A hint of another woman would settle his chances
of winning her. I can give her that. I'd like to. A woman of her stamp has no business marrying."

She mused a few minutes over her own statements, while Curran stared. He began to feel that
the threads of this game were not all in his hands.

"You must now go to the priest and Anne Dillon," she resumed, "and say to them plump ... take
the priest first ... say to them plump before they can hold their faces in shape: do you know
Horace Endicott? Then watch the faces, and get what you can out of them."

"That means you will have Arthur down on you next day."

"Sure," catching her breath. "But it is now near the end of the season. When he comes to have
it out with me, he will find himself face to face with Sonia. If it's to be a fight, he'll
find a tiger. Then we can run away to California, if Sonia says so."

"You are going to bring Sonia down, then?"

"You suggested it. Lemme tell you what you're going to find out to-day. You're going to find
out that Monsignor knew Horace Endicott. After that I think it would be all right to bring
down Sonia."

Little use to argue with her, or with any woman for that matter, once an idea lodged so deep
in her brain. He went to see Monsignor, with the intention of being candid with him: in fact
there was no other way of dealing with the priest. In his experience Curran had found no class
so difficult to deal with as the clergy. They were used to keeping other people's secrets as
well as their own. He did not reveal his plan to Edith, because he feared her criticism, and
could not honestly follow her methods. He had not, with all his skill and cunning, her genius
for ferreting.

Monsignor, acquainted with him, received him coldly. Edith's instructions were, ask the question
plump, watch his face, and then run to Anne Dillon before she can be warned by the Monsignor's
messenger. Looking into the calm, well-drilled countenance of the priest, Curran found it impossible
to surprise him so uncourteously. Anyway the detective felt sure that there would be no surprise,
except at the mere question.

"I would like to ask you a question, Monsignor," said Curran smoothly, "which I have no right
to ask perhaps. I am looking for a man who disappeared some time ago, and the parties interested
hope that you can give some information. You can tell me if the question is at all impertinent,
and I will go. Do you know Horace Endicott?"

There was no change in the priest's expression or manner, no starting, no betrayal of feeling.
Keeping his eyes on the detective's face, he repeated the name as one utters a half-forgotten
thing.

"Why has that name a familiar sound?" he asked himself.

"You may have read it frequently in the papers at the time Horace Endicott disappeared," Curran
suggested.

"Possibly, but I do not read the journals so carefully," Monsignor answered musingly. "Endicott,
Endicott ... I have it ... and it brings to my mind the incident of the only railroad wreck
in which I have ever had the misfortune to be ... only this time it was good fortune for one
poor man."

Very deliberately he told the story of the collision and of his slight acquaintance with the
young fellow whose name, as well as he could remember, was Endicott. The detective handed him
a photograph of the young man.

"How clearly this picture calls up the whole scene," said Monsignor much pleased. "This is
the very boy. Have you a copy of this? Do send me one."

"You can keep that," said Curran, delighted at his progress, astonished that Edith's prophecy
should have come true. Naturally the next question would be, have you seen the young man since
that time? and Curran would have asked it had not the priest broken in with a request for the
story of his disappearance. It was told.

"Of course I shall be delighted to give what information I possess," said Monsignor. "There
was no secret about him then ... many others saw him ... of course this must have been some
time before he disappeared. But let me ask a question before we go any further. How did you
suspect my acquaintance with a man whom I met so casually? The incident had almost faded from
my mind. In fact I have never mentioned it to a soul."

"It was a mere guess on the part of those interested in finding him."

"Still the guess must have been prompted by some theory of the search."

"I am almost ashamed to tell it," Curran said uneasily. "The truth is that my employers suspect
that Horace Endicott has been hiding for years under the character of Arthur Dillon."

Monsignor looked amazed for a moment and then laughed.

"Interesting for Mr. Dillon and his friends, particularly if this Endicott is wanted for any
crime...."

"Oh, no, no," cried the detective. "It is his wife who is seeking him, a perfectly respectable
man, you know ... it's a long story. We have chased many a man supposed to be Endicott, and
Mr. Dillon is the latest. I don't accept the theory myself. I know Dillon is Dillon, but a
detective must sift the theories of his employers. In fact my work up to this moment proves
very clearly that of all our wrong chases this is the worst."

"It looks absurd at first sight. I remember the time poor Mrs. Dillon sent out her photographs,
scattered a few hundred of them among the police and the miners of California, in the hope
of finding her lost son. That was done with my advice. She had her first response, a letter
from her son, about the very time that I met young Endicott. For the life of me I cannot understand
why anyone should suppose Arthur Dillon...."

He picked up the photograph of Endicott again.

"The two men look as much alike as I look like you. I'm glad you mentioned the connection which
Dillon has with the matter. You will kindly leave me out of it until you have made inquiries
of Mr. Dillon himself. It would not do, you understand, for a priest in my position to give
out any details in a matter which may yet give trouble. I fear that in telling you of my meeting
with Endicott I have already overstepped the limits of prudence. However, that was my fault,
as you warned me. Thanks for the photograph, a very nice souvenir of a tragedy. Poor young
fellow! Better had he perished in the smash-up than to go out of life in so dreary a way."

"If I might venture another----"

"Pardon, not another word. In any official and public way I am always ready to tell what the
law requires, or charity demands."

"You would be willing then to declare that Arthur Dillon----"

"Is Mrs. Dillon's son? Certainly ... at any time, under proper conditions. Good morning. Don't
mention it," and Curran was outside the door before his thoughts took good shape; so lost in
wonder over the discovery of Monsignor's acquaintance with Endicott, that he forgot to visit
Anne Dillon. Instead he hurried home with the news to Edith, and blushed with shame when she
asked if he had called on Anne. She forgave his stupidity in her delight, and put him through
his catechism on all that had been said and seen in the interview with Monsignor.

"You are a poor stick," was her comment, and for the first time in years he approved of her
opinion. "The priest steered you about and out with his little finger, and the corner of his
eye. He did not give you a chance to ask if he had ever seen Horace Endicott since. Monsignor
will not lie for any man. He simply refuses to answer on the ground that his position will
not permit it. You will never see the priest again on this matter. Arthur Dillon will bid you
stand off. Well, you see what my instinct is now! Are you more willing to believe in it when
it says: Arthur Dillon is Horace Endicott?"

"Not a bit, sweetheart."

"I won't fight with you, since you are doing as I order. Go to Anne Dillon now. Mind, she's
already prepared by this time for your visit. You may run against Arthur instead of her. While
you are gone I shall write to Sonia that we have at last found a clue, and ask her to come
on at once. Dillon may not give us a week to make our escape after he learns what we have been
doing. We must be quick. Go, my dear old stupid, and bear in mind that Anne Dillon is the cunningest
cat you've had to do with yet."

She gave an imitation of the lady that was funny to a degree, and sent the detective off laughing,
but not at all convinced that there was any significance in his recent discovery. He felt mortified
to learn again for the hundredth time how a prejudice takes the edge off intellect. Though
certain Edith's theory was wrong, why should he act like a donkey in disproving it? On the
contrary his finest skill was required, and methods as safe as if Dillon were sure to turn
out Endicott. He sharpened his blade for the coming duel with Anne, whom Monsignor had warned,
without doubt. However, Anne had received no warning and she met Curran with her usual reserve.
He was smoothly brutal.

"I would like to know if you are acquainted with Mr. Horace Endicott?" said he.

Anne's face remained as blank as the wall, and her manner tranquil. She had never heard the
name before, for in the transactions between herself and her son only the name of Arthur Dillon
had been mentioned, while of his previous life she knew not a single detail. Curran not disappointed,
hastened, after a pause, to explain his own rudeness.

"I never heard the name," said Anne coldly. "Nor do I see by what right you come here and ask
questions."

"Pardon my abruptness," said the detective. "I am searching for a young man who disappeared
some years ago, and his friends are still hunting for him, still anxious, so that they follow
the most absurd clues. I am forced to ask this question of all sorts of people, only to get
the answer which you have given. I trust you will pardon me for my presumption for the sake
of people who are suffering."

His speech warned her that she had heard her son's name for the first time, that she stood
on the verge of exposure; and her heart failed her, she felt that her voice would break if
she ventured to speak, her knees give way if she resented this man's manner by leaving the
room. Yet the weakness was only for a moment, and when it passed a wild curiosity to hear something
of that past which had been a sealed book to her, to know the real personality of Arthur Dillon,
burned her like a flame, and steadied her nerves. For two years she had been resenting his
secrecy, not understanding his reasons. He was guarding against the very situation of this moment.

"Horace Endicott," she repeated with interest. "There is no one of that name in my little circle,
and I have never heard the name before. Who was he? And how did he come to be lost?"

And she rose to indicate that his reply must be brief.

Curran told with eloquence of the disappearance and the long search, and gave a history of
Endicott's life in nice detail, pleased with the unaffected interest of this severe but elegant
woman. As he spoke his eye took in every mark of feeling, every gesture, every expression.
Her self-command, if she knew Horace Endicott, remained perfect; if she knew him not, her manner
seemed natural.

"God pity his poor people," was her fervent comment as she took her seat again. "I was angry
with you at first, sir," looking at his card, "and of a mind to send you away for what looked
like impertinence. But it's I would be only too glad to give you help if I could. I never even
heard the young man's name. And it puzzles me, why you should come to me."

"For this reason, Mrs. Dillon," he said with sincere disgust. "The people who are hunting for
Horace Endicott think that Arthur Dillon is the man; or to put it in another way, that you
were deceived when you welcomed back your son from California. Horace Endicott and not Arthur
Dillon returned."

"My God!" cried she, and sat staring at him; then rose up and began to move towards the door
backwards, keeping an eye upon him. Her thought showed clear to the detective: she had been
entertaining a lunatic. He laughed.

"Don't go," he said. "I know what you imagine, but I'm no lunatic. I don't believe that your
son is an impostor. He is a friend of mine, and I know that he is Arthur Dillon. But a man
in my business must do as he is ordered by his employers. I am a detective."

For a minute she hesitated with hand outstretched to the bell-rope. Her mind acted with speed;
she had nothing to fear, the man was friendly, his purpose had failed, whatever it was, the
more he talked the more she would learn, and it might be in her power to avert danger by policy.
She went back to her seat, having left it only to act her part. Taking the hint provided by
Curran, she pretended belief in his insanity, and passed to indignation at this attempt upon
her happiness, her motherhood. This rage became real, when she reflected that the Aladdin palace
of her life was really threatened by Curran's employers. To her the prosperity and luxury of
the past five years had always been dream-like in its fabric, woven of the mists of morning,
a fairy enchantment, which might vanish in an hour and leave poor Cinderella sitting on a pumpkin
by the roadside, the sport of enemies, the burden of friends. How near she had been to this
public humiliation! What wretches, these people who employed the detective!

"My dear boy was absent ten years," she said, "and I suffered agony all that time. What hearts
must some people have to wish to put me through another time like that! Couldn't any wan see
that I accepted him as my son? that all the neighbors accepted him? What could a man want to
deceive a poor mother so? I had nothing to give him but the love of a mother, and men care
little for that, wild boys care nothing for it. He brought me a fortune, and has made my life
beautiful ever since he came back. I had nothing to give him. Who is at the bottom of this thing?"

The detective explained the existence and motives of a deserted, poverty-stricken wife and child.

"I knew a woman would be at the bottom of it," she exclaimed viciously, feeling against Sonia
a hatred which she knew to be unjust. "Well, isn't she able to recognize her own husband? If
I could tell my son after ten years, when he had grown to be a man, can't she tell her own
husband after a few years? Could it be that my boy played Horace Endicott in Boston and married
that woman, and then came back to me?"

"Oh, my dear Mrs. Dillon," cried the detective in alarm, "do not excite yourself over so trifling
a thing. Your son is your son no matter what our theories may be. This Endicott was born and
brought up in the vicinity of Boston, and came from a very old family. Your suspicion is baseless.
Forget the whole matter I beg of you."

"Have you a picture of the young man?"

He handed her the inevitable photograph reluctantly, quite sure that she would have hysterics
before he left, so sincere was her excitement. Anne studied the portrait with keen interest,
it may be imagined, astonished to find it so different from Arthur Dillon. Had she blundered
as well as the detective? Between this portrait and any of the recent photographs of Arthur
there seemed no apparent resemblance in any feature. She had been exciting herself for nothing.

"Wonderful are the ways of men," was her comment. "How any one ..." her brogue had left her
... "could take Arthur Dillon for this man, even supposing he was disguised now, is strange
and shameful. What is to be the end of it?"

"Just this, dear madam," said Curran, delighted at her returning calmness. "I shall tell them
what you have said, what every one says, and they'll drop the inquiry as they have dropped
about one hundred others. If they are persistent, I shall add that you are ready to go into
any court in the land and swear positively that you know your own son."

"Into twenty courts," she replied with fervor, and the tears, real tears came into her eyes;
then, at sight of Aladdin's palace as firm as ever on its frail foundations, the tears rolled
down her cheeks.

"Precisely. And now if you would be kind enough to keep this matter from the ears of Mr. Dillon
... he's a great friend of mine ... I admire him ... I was with him in the little expedition
to Ireland, you know ... and it was to save him pain that I came to you first ... if it could
be kept quiet----"

"I want it kept quiet," she said with decision, "but at the same time Arthur must know of these
cruel suspicions. Oh, how my heart beats when I think of it! Without him ten years, and then
to have strangers plan to take him from me altogether ... forever ... forever ... oh!"

Curran perspired freely at the prospect of violent hysterics. No man could deal more rudely
with the weak and helpless with right on his side, or if his plans demanded it. Before a situation
like this he felt lost and foolish.

"Certainly he must know in time. I shall tell him myself, as soon as I make my report of the
failure of this clue to my employers. I would take it as a very great favor if you would permit
me to tell him. It must come very bitter to a mother to tell her son that he is suspected of
not being her son. Let me spare you that anguish."

Anne played with him delightfully, knowing that she had him at her mercy, not forgetting however
that the sport was with tigers. Persuaded to wait a few days while Curran made his report,
in return he promised to inform her of the finding of poor Endicott at the proper moment. The
detective bowed himself out, the lady smiled. A fair day's work! She had learned the name and
the history of the young man known as Arthur Dillon in a most delightful way. The doubt attached
to this conclusion did not disturb her. Wonderful, that Arthur Dillon should look so little
like the portrait of Horace Endicott! More wonderful still that she, knowing Arthur was not
her son, had come to think of him, to feel towards him, and to act accordingly, as her son!
Her rage over this attempt upon the truth and the fact of their relationship grew to proportions.

CHAPTER XXX.

UNDER THE EYES OF HATE.

Edith's inference from the interviews with the Monsignor and Anne did justice to her acuteness.
The priest alone knew the true personality of Arthur. From Anne all but the fact of his disappearance
had been kept, probably to guard against just such attempts as Curran's. The detective reminded
her that her theory stood only because of her method of selection from his investigations.
Nine facts opposed and one favored her contention: therefore nine were shelved, leaving one
to support the edifice of her instincts or her suspicions. She stuck out her tongue at him.

"It shows how you are failing when nine out of ten facts, gathered in a whole day's work, are
worthless. Isn't that one fact, that the priest knew Horace Endicott, worth all your foolish
reasonings? Who discovered it? Now, will you coax Sonia Endicott down here to have a look at
this Arthur Dillon? Before we start for California?"

He admitted humbly that the lady would not accept his invitation, without stern evidence of
a valuable clue. The detectives had given her many a useless journey.

"She'll be at the Everett House to-morrow early in the morning," said Edith proudly. "Want
to know why, stupid? I sent her a message that her game had been treed at last ... by me."

He waved his hands in despair.

"Then you'll do the talking, Madam Mischief."

"And you'll never say a word, even when asked. What! would I let you mesmerize her at the start
by telling her how little you think of my idea and my plans? She would think as little of them
as you do, when you got through. No! I shall tell her, I shall plan for her, I shall lead her
to the point of feeling where that long experience with Horace Endicott will become of some
use in piercing the disguise of Arthur Dillon. You would convince her she was not to see Horace
Endicott, and of course she would see only Arthur Dillon. I'll convince her she is to see her
runaway husband, and then if she doesn't I'll confess defeat."

"There's a good deal in your method," he admitted in a hopeless way.

"We are in for it now," she went on, scorning the compliment. "By this time Arthur Dillon knows,
if he did not before, that I am up to mischief. He may fall on us any minute. He will not suffer
this interference: not because he cares two cents one way or the other, but because he will
not have us frightening his relatives and friends, telling every one that he is two. Keep out
of his way so that he shall have to come here, and to send word first that he is coming. I'll
arrange a scene for him with his Sonia. It may be sublime, and again it may be a fizzle. One
way or the other, if Sonia says so, we'll fly to the west out of his way. The dear, dear boy!"

"He'll dear you after that scene!"

"Now, do you make what attempts you may to find out where he keeps his money, he must have
piles of it, and search his papers, his safe...."

"He has nothing of the kind ... everything about him is as open as the day ... it's an impertinence
to bother him so ... well, he can manage you, I think ... no need for me to interfere or get
irritated."

Then she had a tantrum, which galled the soul of Curran, except that it ended as usual in her
soft whimpering, her childish murmuring, her sweet complaint against the world, and her falling
asleep in his arms. Thus was he regularly conquered and led captive.

They went next day at noon to visit Sonia Endicott at the Everett House, where she had established
herself with her little boy and his nurse. Her reception of the Currans, while supercilious
in expression, was really sincere. They represented her hope in that long search of five years,
which only a vigorous hate had kept going. Marked with the characteristics of the cat, velvety
to eye and touch, insolent and elusive in her glance, undisciplined, she could act a part for
a time. To Horace Endicott she had played the rôle of a child of light, an elf, a goddess,
for which nature had dressed her with golden hair, melting eyes of celestial blue, and exquisite
form.

The years had brought out the animal in her. She found it more and more difficult to repress
the spite, rage, hatred, against Horace and fate, which consumed her within, and violated the
external beauty with unholy touches, wrinkles, grimaces, tricks of sneering, distortions of
rage. Her dreams of hatred had only one scene: a tiger in her own form rending the body of
the man who had discovered and punished her with a power like omnipotence; rending him but
not killing him, leaving his heart to beat and his face unmarked, that he might feel his agony
and show it.

"If you had sent me the telegram," she remarked to Curran, "I would not have come. But this
dear Colette, she is to be my good angel and lead me to success, aren't you, little devil?
Ever since she took up the matter I have had my beautiful dreams once more, oh, such thrilling
dreams! Like the novels of Eugene Sue, just splendid. Well, why don't you speak?"

He pointed to Edith with a gesture of submission. She was hugging the little boy before the
nurse took him away, teasing him into baby talk, kissing him decorously but lavishly, as if
she could not get enough of him.

"He's not to speak until asked," she cried.

"And then only say what she thinks," he added.

"La! are you fighting over it already? That's not a good sign."

With a final embrace which brought a howl from young Horace, Edith gave the boy to the nurse
and began her story of finding Horace Endicott in the son of Anne Dillon. She acted the story,
admirably keeping back the points which would have grated on Sonia's instincts, or rather expectations.
The lady, impressed, evidently felt a lack of something when Curran refused his interest and
his concurrence to the description.

"What do you wish me to do?" said she.

"To see this Dillon and to study him, as one would a problem. The man's been playing this part,
living it indeed, nearly five years. Can any one expect that the first glance will pierce his
disguise? He must be watched and studied for days, and if that fetches nothing, then you must
meet him suddenly, and say to him tenderly, 'at last, Horace!' If that fetches nothing, then
we must go to California, and work until we get the evidence which will force him to acknowledge
himself and give up his money. But by that time, if we can make sure it is he, and if we can
get his money, then I would recommend one thing! Kill him!"

Sonia's eyes sparkled at the thought of that sweet murder.

"And wait another five years for all this," was her cynical remark.

"If the question is not settled this Fall, then let it go forever," said Edith with energy.

"The scheme is well enough," Sonia said lazily. "Is this Arthur Dillon handsome, a dashing blade?"

"Better," murmured Edith with a smack of her lips, "a virtuous sport, who despises the sex
in a way, and can master woman by a look. He is my master. And I hate him! It will be worth
your time to see him and meet him."

"And now you," to Curran.

Sonia did not know, nor care why Edith hated Dillon.

"I protest, Sonia. He will put a spell on you, and spoil our chances. Let him talk later when
we have succeeded or failed."

"Nonsense, you fool. I must hear both sides, but I declare now that I submit myself to you
wholly. What do you say, Curran?"

"Just this, madam: if this man Arthur Dillon is really your husband, then he's too clever to
be caught by any power in this world. Any way you choose to take it, you will end as this search
has always ended."

"Why do you think him so clever? My Horace was anything but clever ... at least we thought
so ... until now."

"Until he has foiled every attempt to find him," said Curran. "Colette has her own ideas, but
she has kept back all the details that make or unmake a case. She is so sure of her instincts!
No doubt they are good."

"But not everything, hey?" said the lady tenderly. "Ah, a woman's instincts lead her too far
sometimes...." they all laughed. "Well, give me the details Colette left out. No winking at
each other. I won't raise a hand in this matter until I have heard both sides."

"This Arthur Dillon is Irish, and lives among the Irish in the old-fashioned Irish way, half
in the slums, and half in the swell places...."

"Mon Dieu, what is this I hear! The Irish! My Horace live among the Irish! That's not the man.
He could live anywhere, among the Chinese, the Indians, the niggers, but with that low class
of people, never!" and she threw up her hands in despair. "Did I come from Boston to pursue
a low Irishman!"

"You see," cried Edith. "Already he has cast his spell on you. He doesn't believe I have found
your man, and he won't let you believe it. Can't you see that this Horace went to the very
place where you were sure he would not go?"

"You cannot tell him now from an Irishman," continued the detective. "He has an Irish mother,
he is a member of Tammany Hall, he is a politician who depends on Irish voters, he joined the
Irish revolutionists and went over the sea to fight England, and he's in love with an Irish girl."

"Shocking! Horace never had any taste or any sense, but I know he detested the Irish around
Boston. I can't believe it of him. But, as Colette says truly, he would hide himself in the
very place where we least think of looking for him."

"Theories have come to nothing," screamed Edith, until the lady placed her hands on her ears.
"Skill and training and coolness and all that rot have come to nothing. Because I hate Arthur
Dillon I have discovered Horace Endicott. Now I want to see your eyes looking at this man,
eyes with hate in them, and with murder in them. They will discover more than all the stupid
detectives in the country. See what hate did for Horace Endicott. He hated you, and instead
of murdering you he learned to torture you. He hated you, and it made him clever. Oh, hate
is a great teacher! This fool of mine loves Arthur Dillon, because he is a patriot and hates
England. Hate breeds cleverness, it breeds love, it opens the mind, it will dig out Horace
Endicott and his fortune, and enrich us all."

"La, but you are strenuous," said the lady placidly, but impressed. She was a shallow creature
in the main, and Curran compared his little wife, eloquent, glowing with feeling, dainty as
a flame, to the slower-witted beauty, with plain admiration in his gaze. She deserves to succeed,
he thought. Sonia came to a conclusion, languidly.

"We must try the eyes of hate," was her decision.

The pursuit of Arthur proved very interesting. The detective knew his habits of labor and amusement,
his public haunts and loitering-places. Sonia saw him first at the opera, modestly occupying
a front seat in the balcony.

"Horace would never do that when he could get a box," and she leveled her glass at him.

Edith mentally dubbed her a fool. However, her study of the face and figure and behavior of
the man showed care and intelligence. Edith's preparation had helped her. She saw a lean, nervous
young man, whose flowing black hair and full beard were streaked with gray. His dark face,
hollow in the cheeks and not too well-colored with the glow of health, seemed to get light
and vivacity from his melancholy eyes. Seriousness was the characteristic expression. Once
he laughed, in the whole evening. Once he looked straight into her face, with so fixed, so
intense an expression, so near a gaze, so intimate and penetrating, that she gave a low cry.

"You have recognized him?" Edith whispered mad with joy.

"No, indeed," she answered sadly, "That is not Horace Endicott. Not a feature that I recall,
certainly no resemblance. I was startled because I saw just now in his look, ... he looked
towards me into the glass ... an expression that seemed familiar ... as if I had seen it before,
and it had hurt me then as it hurts me now."

"There's a beginning," said Edith with triumph. "Next time for a nearer look."

"Oh, he could never have changed so," Sonia cried with bitterness of heart.

Curran secured tickets for a ball to be held by a political association in the Cherry Hill
district, and placed the ladies in a quiet corner of the gallery of the hall. Arthur Dillon,
as a leading spirit in the society, delighted to mingle with the homely, sincere, warm-hearted,
and simple people for whom this occasion was a high festival; and nowhere did his sorrow rest
so lightly on his soul, nowhere did he feel so keenly the delight of life, or give freer expression
to it. Edith kept Sonia at the highest pitch of excitement and interest.

"Remember," she said now, "that he probably knows you are in town, that you are here watching
him; but not once will he look this way, nor do a thing other than if you were miles away.
My God, to be an actor like that!"

The actor played his part to perfection and to the utter disappointment of the women. The serious
face shone now with smiles and color, with the flash of wit and the play of humor. Horace Endicott
had been a merry fellow, but a Quaker compared with the butterfly swiftness and gaiety of this
young man, who led the grand march, flirted with the damsels and chatted with the dames, danced
as often as possible, joked with the men, found partners for the unlucky, and touched the heart
of every rollicking moment. The old ladies danced jigs with him, proud to their marrow of the
honor, and he allowed himself ... Sonia gasped at the sight ... to execute a wild Irish pas
seul amid the thunderous applause of the hearty and adoring company.

"That man Horace Endicott!" she exclaimed with contempt. "Bah! But it's interesting, of course."

"What a compliment! what acting! oh, incomparable man!" said Edith, enraged at his success
before such an audience. Her husband smiled behind his hand.

"You have a fine imagination, Colette, but I would not give a penny for your instinct," said Sonia.

"My instinct will win just the same, but I fear we shall have to go to California. This man
is too clever for commonplace people."

"Arthur Dillon is a fine orator," said Curran mischievously, "and to-morrow night you shall
hear him at his best on the sorrows of Ireland."

Sonia laughed heartily and mockingly. Were not these same sorrows, from their constancy and
from repetition, become the joke of the world? Curran could have struck her evil face for the
laugh.

"Was your husband a speaker?" he asked.

"Horace would not demean himself to talk in public, and he couldn't make a speech to save his
life. But to talk on the sorrows of Ireland ... oh, it's too absurd."

"And why not Ireland's sorrows as well as those of America, or any other country?" he replied
savagely.

"Oh, I quite forgot that you were Irish ... a thousand pardons," she said with sneering civility.
"Of course, I shall be glad to hear his description of the sorrows. An orator! It's very interesting."

The occasion for the display of Arthur's powers was one of the numerous meetings for which
the talking Irish are famous all over the world, and in which their clever speakers have received
fine training. Even Sonia, impressed by the enthusiasm of the gathering, and its esteem for
Dillon, could not withhold her admiration. Alas, it was not her Horace who poured out a volume
of musical tone, vigorous English, elegant rhetoric, with the expression, the abandonment,
the picturesqueness of a great actor. She shuddered at his descriptions, her heart melted and
her eyes moistened at his pathos, she became filled with wonder. It was not Horace! Her husband
might have developed powers of eloquence, but would have to be remade to talk in that fashion
of any land. This Dillon had terrible passion, and her Horace was only a a handsome fool. She
could have loved Dillon.

"So you will have to arrange the little scene where I shall stand before him without warning,
and murmur tenderly, 'at last, Horace!' And it must be done without delay," was her command
to Edith.

"It can be done perhaps to-morrow night," Edith said in a secret rage, wondering what Arthur
Dillon could have seen in Sonia. "But bear in mind why I am doing this scene, with the prospects
of a furious time afterwards with Dillon. I want you to see him asleep, just for ten minutes,
in the light of a strong lamp. In sleep there is no disguise. When he is dressed for a part
and playing it, the sharpest eyes, even the eyes of hate, may not be able to escape the glamour
of the disguise. The actor asleep is more like himself. You shall look into his face, and turn
it from side to side with your own hands. If you do not catch some feeling from that, strike
a resemblance, I shall feel like giving up."

"La, but you are an audacious creature," said Sonia, and the triviality of the remark sent
Edith into wild laughter. She would like to have bitten the beauty.

The detective consented to Edith's plans, in his anxiety to bring the farce to an end before
the element of danger grew. Up to this point they might appeal to Arthur for mercy. Later the
dogs would be upon them. As yet no sign of irritation on Arthur's part had appeared. The day
after the oration on the sorrows of Erin he sent a note to Curran announcing his intention
to call the same evening. Edith, amazed at her own courage in playing with the fire which in
an instant could destroy her, against the warning of her husband, was bent on carrying out
the scene.

Dearly she loved the dramatic off the stage, spending thought and time in its arrangement.
How delicious the thought of this man and his wife meeting under circumstances so wondrous
after five years of separation. Though death reached her the next moment she would see it.
The weakness of the plot lay in Sonia's skepticism and Arthur's knowledge that a trap was preparing.
He would brush her machinery aside like a cobweb, but that did not affect the chance of his
recognition by Sonia.

Dillon had never lost his interest in the dancer and her husband. They attracted him. In their
lives ran the same strain of madness, the madness of the furies, as in his own. Their lovable
qualities were not few. Occasionally he dropped in to tease Edith over her lack of conscience,
or her failures, and to discuss the cause of freedom with the smooth and flinty Curran. Wild
humans have the charm of their wilderness. One must not forget their teeth and their claws.
This night the two men sat alone. Curran filled the glasses and passed the cigars. Arthur made
no comment on the absence of Edith. He might have been aware that the curtains within three
feet of his chair, hiding the room beyond, concealed the two women, whose eyes, peering through
small glasses fixed in the curtains, studied his face. He might even have guessed that his
easy chair had been so placed as to let the light fall upon him while Curran sat in the dim
light beyond. The young man gave no sign, spoke freely with Curran on the business of the night,
and acted as usual.

"Of course it must be stopped at once," he said. "Very much flattered of course that I should
be taken for Horace Endicott ... you gave away Tom Jones' name at last ... but these things,
so trifling to you, jar the nerves of women. Then it would never do for me, with my little
career in California unexplained, to have stories of a double identity ... is that what you
call it?... running around. Of course I know it's that devil Edith, presuming always on good
nature ... that's her nature ... but if you don't stop it, why I must."

"You'll have to do it, I think," the detective replied maliciously. "I can do only what she
orders. I had to satisfy her by running to the priest, and your mother, and the Senator----"

"What! even my poor uncle! Oh, Curran!"

"The whole town, for that matter, Mr. Dillon. It was done in such a way, of course, that none
of them suspected anything wrong, and we talked under promise of secrecy. I saw that the thing
had to be done to satisfy her and to bring you down on us. Now you're down and the trouble's
over as far as I am concerned."

"And Tom Jones was Horace Endicott," Arthur mused, "I knew it of course all along, but I respected
your confidence. I had known Endicott."

"You knew Horace Endicott?" said Curran, horrified by a sudden vision of his own stupidity.

"And his lady, a lovely, a superb creature, but just a shade too sharp for her husband, don't
you know. He was a fool in love, wasn't he? judging from your story of him. Has she become
reconciled to her small income, I wonder? She was not that kind, but when one has to, that's
the end of it. And there are consolations. How the past month has tired me. I could go to sleep
right in the chair, only I want to settle this matter to-night, and I must say a kind word
to the little devil----"

His voice faded away, and he slept, quite overpowered by the drug placed in his wine. After
perfect silence for a minute, Curran beckoned to the women, who came noiseless into the room,
and bent over the sleeping face. In his contempt for them, the detective neither spoke nor
left his seat. Harpies brooding over the dead! Even he knew that!

Arthur's face lay in profile, its lines all visible, owing to the strong light, through the
disguise of the beard. The melancholy which marks the face of any sleeper, a foreshadow of
the eternal sleep, had become on this sleeper's countenance a profound sadness. From his seat
Curran could see the pitiful droop of the mouth, the hollowness of the eyes, the shadows under
the cheek-bones; marks of a sadness too deep for tears. Sonia took his face in her soft hands
and turned the right profile to the light. She looked at the full face, smoothed his hair as
if trying to recall an ancient memory.

"The eyes of hate," murmured Edith between tears and rage. She pitied while she hated him,
understanding the sorrow that could mark a man's face so deeply, admiring the courage which
could wear the mask so well. Sonia was deeply moved in spite of disappointment. At one moment
she caught a fleeting glimpse of her Horace, but too elusive to hold and analyze. Something
pinched her feelings and the great tears fell from her soft eyes. Emotion merely pinched her.
Only in hate could she writhe and foam and exhaust nature. She studied his hands, observed
the fingers, with the despairing conviction that this was not the man; too lean and too coarse
and too hard; and her rage began to burn against destiny. Oh, to have Horace as helpless under
her hands! How she could rend him!

"Do you see any likeness?" whispered Edith.

"None," was the despairing answer.

"Be careful," hissed Curran. "In this sleep words are heard and remembered sometimes."

Edith swore the great oaths which relieved her anger. But what use to curse, to look and curse
again? At the last moment Curran signalled them away, and began talking about his surprise
that Arthur should have known the lost man.

"Because you might have given me a clue," Arthur heard him saying as he came back from what
he thought had been a minute's doze, "and saved me a year's search, not to mention the money
I could have made."

"I'll tell you about it some other time," said Arthur with a yawn, as he lit a fresh cigar.
"Ask madam to step in here, will you. I must warn her in a wholesome way."

"I think she is entertaining a friend," Curran said, hinting plainly at a surprise.

"Let her bring the friend along," was the careless answer.

The two women entered presently, and Edith made the introduction. The husband and wife stood
face to face at last. Her voice failed in her throat from nervousness, so sure was she that
the Endicotts had met again! They had the center of the stage, and the interest of the audience,
but acted not one whit like the people in a play.

"Delighted," said Arthur in his usual drawling way on these occasions. "I have had the pleasure
of meeting Mrs. Endicott before."

"Indeed," cried the lady. "I regret that my memory...."

"At Castle Moyna, a little fête, mother fainted because she saw me running across the lawn
... of course you remember...."

"Why, certainly ... we all felt so sorry for the young singer ... her father...."

"He was in jail and died since, poor man. Then I saw you coming across on the steamer with
a dear, sweet, old lady...."

"My husband's aunt," Sonia gasped at the thought of Aunt Lois.

"Oh, but he's letter-perfect," murmured Edith in admiration.

"And you might remember me," said the heartless fellow, "but of course on a wedding-tour no
one can expect the parties to remember anything, as the guide for a whole week to your party
in California."

"Of course there was a guide," she admitted, very pleasant to meet him again, and so on to
the empty end. Edith, stunned by her defeat, sat crushed, for this man no more minded the presence
of his wife than did Curran. It was true. Arthur had often thought that a meeting like this
in the far-off years would rock his nature as an earthquake rocks the solid plain. Though not
surprised at her appearance, for Edith's schemes had all been foreseen, he felt surprise at
his own indifference. So utterly had she gone out of his thought, that her sudden appearance,
lovely and seductive as of old, gave him no twinge of hate, fear, repugnance, disgust, horror,
shame, or pain.

He took no credit to himself for a self-control, which he had not been called upon by any stress
of feeling to exercise. He was only Arthur Dillon, encountering a lady with a past; a fact
in itself more or less amusing. Once she might have been a danger to be kept out like a pest,
or barricaded in quarantine. That time had gone by. His indifference for the moment appalled
him, since it showed the hopeless depth of Endicott's grave. After chatting honestly ten minutes,
he went away light of heart, without venturing to warn Edith. Another day, he told her, and
be good meanwhile.

Curran became thoughtful, and the women irritable after he had gone. Edith felt that her instincts
had no longer a value in the market. In this wretched Endicott affair striking disappointment
met the most brilliant endeavors. Sonia made ready to return to her hotel. Dolorously the Currans
paid her the last courtesies, waiting for the word which would end the famous search for her
Horace.

"I have been thinking the matter over," she said sweetly, "and I have thought out a plan, not
in your line of course, which I shall see to at once. I think it worth while to look through
California for points in the life of this interesting young man, Mr. Dillon."

When the door closed on her, Edith began to shriek in hysterical laughter.

CHAPTER XXXI.

THE HEART OF HONORA.

While Edith urged the search for Endicott, the little world to be horrified by her success
enjoyed itself north and south as the season suggested, and the laws of fashion permitted.
At the beginning of June, Anne settled herself comfortably for the summer in a roomy farmhouse,
overlooking Lake Champlain and that particular island of Valcour, which once witnessed the
plucky sea-fight and defeat of dare-devil Arnold. Only Honora accompanied her, but at the close
of the month Louis, the deacon, and Mrs. Doyle Grahame joined them; and after that the whole
world came at odd times, with quiet to-day and riot to-morrow. Honora, the center of interest,
the storm-center, as we call it in these days, turned every eye in her direction with speculative
interest. Would she retire to the convent, or find her vocation in the world? She had more
than fulfilled her father's wish that she remain in secular life for a year. Almost two years
had passed. He could not reproach her from his grave.

One divine morning she came upon the natural stage which had been the scene of a heart-drama
more bitter to her than any sorrow. Walking alone in the solemn woods along the lake shore,
the path suddenly ended on a rocky terrace, unshaded by trees, and directly over the water.
Raspberry bushes made an enclosure there, in the center of which the stumps of two trees held
a rough plank to make a seat. A stony beach curved inward from this point, the dark woods rose
behind, and the soft waters made music in the hollows of the rock beneath her feet. Delightful
with the perfume of the forest, the placid shores of Valcour, sun, and flower, and bird filling
eye and ear with beauty, the sight of the spot chilled her heart. Here Lord Constantine had
offered her his love and his life the year before. To her it had been a frightful scene, this
strong, handsome, clever man, born to the highest things of mind, heart, talent and rank, kneeling
before her, pleading with pallid face for her love, ... and all the rest of it! She would have
sunk down with shame but for his kindness in accepting the situation, and carrying her through it.

Why his proposal shocked her his lordship could not see at first. He understood before his
mournful interview and ended. Honora was of that class, to whom marriage does not present itself
as a personal concern. She had the true feminine interest in the marriage of her friends, and
had vaguely dreamed of her own march to the altar, an adoring lover, a happy home and household
cares. Happy in the love of a charming mother and a high-hearted father, she had devoted her
youthful days to them and to music. They stood between her and importunate lovers, whose intentions
she had never divined.

With the years came trouble, the death of the mother, the earning of her living by her art,
the care of her father, and the work for her native land. Lovers could not pursue this busy
woman, occupied with father and native land, and daily necessity. The eternal round of travel,
conspiracy, scheming, planning, spending, with its invariable ending of disappointment and
weariness of heart, brought forth a longing for the peace of rest, routine, satisfied aspirations;
and from a dream the convent became a passion, longed for as the oasis by the traveler in the
sands.

Simple and sincere as light, the hollow pretence of the world disgusted her. Her temperament
was of that unhappy fiber which sees the end almost as speedily as the beginning; change and
death and satiety treading on the heels of the noblest enterprise. For her there seemed no
happiness but in the possession of the everlasting, the unchangeable, the divinely beautiful.
Out of these feelings and her pious habits rose the longing for the convent, for what seemed
to be permanent, fixed, proportioned, without dust and dirt and ragged edges, and wholly devoted
to God.

After a little Lord Constantine understood her astonishment, her humiliation, her fright. He
had a wretched satisfaction in knowing that no other man would snatch this prize; but oh, how
bitter to give her up even to God! The one woman in all time for him, more could be said in
her praise still; her like was not outside heaven. How much this splendid lake, with sapphire
sky and green shores, lacked of true beauty until she stepped like light into view; then, as
for the first time, one saw the green woods glisten, the waters sparkle anew, the sky deepen
in richness! One had to know her heart, her nature, so nobly dowered, to see this lighting
up of nature's finest work at her coming. She was beautiful, white as milk, with eyes like
jewels, framed in lashes of silken black, so dark, so dark!

Honora wept at the sight of his face as he went away. She had seen that despair in her father's
face. And she wept to-day as she sat on the rough bench. Had she been to blame? Why had she
delayed her entrance into the convent a year beyond the time? Arthur had declared his work
could not get on without her for at least an extra half year. She was lingering still? Had
present comfort shaken her resolution?

A cry roused her from her mournful thoughts, and she looked up to see Mona rounding the point
at the other end of the stony beach, laboring at the heavy oars. Honora smiled and waved her
handkerchief. Here was one woman for whom life had no problems, only solid contentment, and
perennial interest; and who thought her husband the finest thing in the world. She beached
her boat and found her way up to the top of the rock. To look at her no one would dream, Honora
certainly did not, that she had any other purpose than breathing the air.

Mrs. Doyle Grahame enjoyed the conviction that marriage settles all difficulties, if one goes
about it rightly. She had gone about it rightly, with marvellous results. That charming bear
her father had put his neck in her yoke, and now traveled about in her interest as mild as
a clam. All men gasped at the sight of his meekness. When John Everard Grahame arrived on this
planet, his grandfather fell on his knees before him and his parents, and never afterwards
departed from that attitude. Doyle Grahame laid it to his art of winning a father-in-law. Mona
found the explanation simply in the marriage, which to her, from the making of the trousseau
to the christening of the boy, had been wonderful enough to have changed the face of the earth.
The delicate face, a trifle fuller, had increased in dignity. Her hair flamed more glorious
than ever. As a young matron she patronized Honora now an old maid.

"You've been crying," said she, with a glance around, "and I don't wonder. This is the place
where you broke a good man's heart. It will remain bewitched until you accept some other man
in the same spot. How did we know, Miss Cleverly? Do you think Conny was as secret as you?
And didn't I witness the whole scene from the point yonder? I couldn't hear the words, but
there wasn't any need of it. Heavens, the expression of you two!"

"Mona, do you mean to tell me that every one knew it?"

"Every soul, my dear ostrich with your head in the sand. The hope is that you will not repeat
the refusal when the next lover comes along. And if you can arrange to have the scene come
off here, as you arranged for the last one ... I have always maintained that the lady with
a convent vocation is by nature the foxiest of all women. I don't know why, but she shows it."

The usual fashion of teasing Honora attributed to her qualities opposed to a religious vocation.

"Well, I have made up my mind to fly at once to the convent," she said, "with my foxiness and
other evil qualities. If it was my fault that one man proposed to me----"

"It was your fault, of course. Why do you throw doubt upon it?"

"It will not be my fault that the second man proposes. So, this place may remain accursed forever.
Oh, my poor Lord Constantine! After all his kindness to father and me, to be forced to inflict
such suffering on him! Why do men care for us poor creatures so much, Mona?"

"Because we care so much for them ..." Honora laughed ... "and because we are necessary to
their happiness. You should go round the stations on your knees once a day for the rest of
your life, for having rejected Lord Conny. It wasn't mere ingratitude ... that was bad enough;
but to throw over a career so splendid, to desert Ireland so outrageously," this was mere pretence
... "to lose all importance in life for the sake of a dream, for the sake of a convent."

"You have a prejudice against convents, Mona."

"No, dear, I believe in convents for those who are made that way. I have noticed, perhaps you
have too, that many people who should go to a convent will not, and many people at present
in the cloisters ought to have stayed where nature put them first."

"It's pleasant on a day like this for you to feel that you are just where nature intended you
to be, isn't it? How did you leave the baby?"

Mona leaped into a rhapsody on the wonderful child, who was just then filling the time of Anne,
and at the same time filling the air with howlings, but returned speedily to her purpose.

"Did you say you had fixed the day, Honora?"

"In September, any day before the end of the month."

"You were never made for the convent," with seriousness. "Too fond of the running about in
life, and your training is all against it."

"My training!" said Honora.

"All your days you were devoted to one man, weren't you? And to the cause of a nation, weren't
you? And to the applause of the crowd, weren't you? Now, my dear, when you find it necessary
to make a change in your habits, the changes should be in line with those habits. Otherwise
you may get a jolt that you won't forget. In a convent, there will be no man, no Ireland, and
no crowd, will there? What you should have done was to marry Lord Conny, and to keep right
on doing what you had done before, only with more success. Now when the next man comes along,
do not let the grand opportunity go."

"I'll risk the jolt," Honora replied. "But this next man about whom you have been hinting since
you came up here? Is this the man?"

She pointed to the path leading into the woods. Louis came towards them in a hurry, having
promised them a trip to the rocks of Valcour. The young deacon was in fighting trim after a
month on the farm, the pallor of hard study and confinement had fled, and the merry prospect
ahead made his life an enchantment. Only his own could see the slight but ineffaceable mark
of his experience with Sister Claire.

"Take care," whispered Mona. "He is not the man, but the man's agent."

Louis bounced into the raspberry enclosure and flung himself at their feet.

"Tell me," said Honora mischievously. "Is there any man in love with me, and planning to steal
away my convent from me? Tell me true, Louis."

The deacon sat up and cast an indignant look on his sister.

"Shake not thy gory locks at me," she began cooly....

"There it is," he burst out. "Do you know, Honora, I think marriage turns certain kinds of
people, the redheads in particular, quite daft. This one is never done talking about her husband,
her baby, her experience, her theory, her friends who are about to marry, or who want to marry,
or who can't marry. She can't see two persons together without patching up a union for them...."

"Everybody should get married," said Mona serenely, "except priests and nuns. Mona is not a
nun, therefore she should get married."

"The reasoning is all right," replied the deacon, "but it doesn't apply here. Don't you worry,
Honora. There's no man about here that will worry you, and even if there was, hold fast to
that which is given thee...."

"Don't quote Scripture, Reverend Sir," cried Mona angrily.

"The besotted world is not worth the pother this foolish young married woman makes over it."

The foolish young woman received a warning from her brother when Mona went into the woods to
gather an armful of wild blossoms for the boat.

"Don't you know," said he with the positiveness of a young theologian, "that Arthur will probably
never marry? Has he looked at a girl in that way since he came back from California? He's giddy
enough, I know, but one that studies him can see he has no intention of marrying. Now why do
you trouble this poor girl, after her scene with the Englishman, with hints of Arthur? I tell
you he will never marry."

"You may know more about him than I do," his sister placidly answered, "but I have seen him
looking at Honora for the last five years, and working for her, and thinking about her. His
look changed recently. Perhaps you know why. There's something in the air. I can feel it. You
can't. None of you celibates can. And you can't see beyond your books in matters of love and
marriage. That's quite right. We can manage such things better. And if Arthur makes up his
mind to win her, I'm bound she shall have him."

"We can manage! I'm bound!" he mimicked. "Well, remember that I warned you. It isn't so much
that your fingers may be burned ... that's what you need, you married minx. You may do harm
to those two. They seem to be at peace. Let 'em alone."

"What was the baby doing when you left the house?" said she for answer.

"Tearing the nurse's hair out in handfuls," said the proud uncle, as he plunged into a list
of the doings of the wonderful child, who fitted into any conversation as neatly as a preposition.

Mona, grew sad at heart. Her brother evidently knew of some obstacle to this union, something
in Arthur's past life which made his marriage with any woman impossible. She recalled his silence
about the California episode, his indifference to women, his lack of enthusiasm as to marriage.

They rowed away over the lake, with the boat half buried in wild bushes, sprinkled with dandelion
flowers and the tender blossoms of the apple trees. Honora was happy, at peace. She put the
scene with Lord Constantine away from her, and forgot the light words of Mona.

Whoever the suitor might be, Arthur did not appear to her as a lover. So careful had he been
in his behavior, that Louis would have as much place in her thought as Arthur, who had never
discouraged her hope of the convent, except by pleading for Ireland. The delay in keeping her
own resolution had been pleasant. Now that the date was fixed, the grateful enclosure of the
cloister seemed to shut her in from all this dust and clamor of men, from the noisome sights
and sounds of world-living, from the endless coming and going and running about, concerning
trifles, from the injustice and meanness and hopeless crimes of men.

In the shade of the altar, in the restful gloom of Calvary, she could look up with untired
eyes to the calm glow of the celestial life, unchanging, orderly, beautiful with its satisfied
aspiration, and rich in perfect love and holy companionship. Such a longing came over her to
walk into this perfect peace that moment! Mona well knew this mood, and Louis in triumph signalled
his sister to look. Her eyes, turned to the rocky shore of Valcour, saw far beyond. On her
perfect face lay a shadow, the shadow of her longing, and from her lips came now and then the
perfume of a sigh.

In silence these two watched her, Louis recognizing the borderland of holy ecstasy, Mona hopeful
that the vision was only a mirage. The boat floated close to the perpendicular rocks and reflected
itself in the deep waters; far away the farmhouse lay against the green woods; to the north
rose the highest point of the bluff, dark with pines; farther on was the sweep of the curved
shore, and still farther the red walls of the town. Never boat carried freight so beautiful
as this which bore along the island the young mother, the young deacon, and deep-hearted Honora,
who was blessing God.

CHAPTER XXXII.

THE PAULINE PRIVILEGE.

For a week at the end of July Arthur had been in the city closing up the Curran episode. On
his return every one felt that change of marked and mysterious kind had touched him. His face
shone with joy. The brooding shadow, acquired in his exile, had disappeared. Light played about
his face, emanated from it, as from moonlit water, a phosphorescence of the daylight. His mother
studied him with anxiety, without which she had not been since the surprising visit of Curran.
The old shadow seemed to have fled forever.

One night on the lake, as Louis and he floated lazily towards the island, he told the story.
After enjoying a moonlight swim at the foot of the bluff, they were preparing to row over to
Valcour when Honora's glorious voice rang out from the farmhouse on the hill above, singing
to Mona's accompaniment. The two sat in delight. A full moon stood in the sky, and radiance
silvered the bosom of the lake, the mystic shores, the far-off horizon. This singer was the
voice of the night, whose mystic beauty and voiceless feeling surged into the woman's song
like waters escaping through a ravine. Dillon was utterly oppressed by happiness. When the
song had ceased, he stretched out his arms towards her.

"Dearest and best of women! By God's grace I shall soon call you mine!"

Louis took up the oars and pulled with energy in the direction of Valcour. "Is that the meaning
of the look on your face since your return?" said he.

"That's the meaning. I saw you all watching me in surprise. My mother told me of it in her
anxiety. If my face matched my feelings the moon there would look sickly besides its brightness.
I have been in jail for five years, and to-day I am free."

"And how about that other woman ...?"

"Dead as far as I am concerned, the poor wretch! Yesterday I could curse her. I pity her to-day.
She has gone her way and I go mine. Monsignor has declared me free. Isn't that enough?"

"That's enough," cried Louis, dropping the oars in his excitement. "But is it enough to give
you Honora? I'm so glad you think of her that way. Mona told her only yesterday that some lover
was pursuing her, not mentioning your name. I assured her on the contrary that the road to
the convent would have no obstacles. And I rebuked Mona for her interference."

"You were right, and she was right," said Arthur sadly. "I never dared to show her my love,
because I was not free. But now I shall declare it. What did she think of Mona's remarks?"

"She took them lightly. I am afraid that your freedom comes at a poor time, Arthur; that you
may be too late. I have had many talks with her. Her heart is set on the convent, she has fixed
the date for September, and she does not seem to have love in her mind at all."

"Love begets love. How could she think of love when I never gave any sign, except what sharp-eyed
Mona saw. You can conceal nothing from a woman. Wait until I have wooed her ... but apart from
all that you must hear how I came to be free ... oh, my God, I can hardly believe it even now
after three days ... I have been so happy that the old anguish which tore my soul years ago
seemed easier to bear than this exquisite pain. I must get used to it. Listen now to the story
of my escape, and row gently while you listen so as to miss not a word."

Arthur did not tell his chum more than half of the tale, chiefly because Louis was never to
know the story of Horace Endicott. He had gone to New York at the invitation of Livingstone.
This surprising incident began a series of surprises. The Currans had returned from California,
and made their report to Sonia; and to Livingstone of all men the wife of Horace Endicott had
gone for advice in so delicate an affair as forcing Arthur Dillon to prove and defend his identity.
After two or three interviews with Livingstone Arthur carried his report to Monsignor.

"All this looks to me," said the priest, "as if the time for a return to your own proper personality
had come. You know how I have feared the consequences of this scheme. The more I look into
it, the more terrible it seems."

"And why should I give up now of all times? when I am a success?" cried the young fellow. "Do
I fear Livingstone and the lawyers? Curran and his wife have done their best, and failed. Will
the lawyers do any better?"

"It is not that," said the priest. "But you will always be annoyed in this way. The sharks
and blackmailers will get after you later...."

"No, no, no, Monsignor. This effort of the Currans and Mrs. Endicott will be the last. I won't
permit it. There will be no result from Livingstone's interference. He can go as far as interviews
with me, but not one step beyond. And I can guarantee that no one will ever take up the case
after him."

"You are not reasonable," urged the priest. "The very fact that these people suspect you to
be Horace Endicott is enough; it proves that you have been discovered."

"I am only the twentieth whom they pursued for Horace," he laughed. "Curran knows I am not
Endicott. He has proved to the satisfaction of Livingstone that I am Arthur Dillon. But the
two women are pertinacious, and urge the men on. Since these are well paid for their trouble,
why should they not keep on?"

"They are not the only pertinacious ones," the priest replied.

"You may claim a little of the virtue yourself," Arthur slyly remarked. "You have urged me
to betray myself into the hands of enemies once a month for the last five years."

"In this case would it not be better to get an advantage by declaring yourself, before Livingstone
can bring suit against you?"

"There will be no suit," he answered positively. "I hold the winning cards in this game. There
is no advantage in my returning to a life which for me holds nothing but horror. Do you not
see, Monsignor, that the same reasons which sent me out of it hold good to keep me out of it?"

"Very true," said Monsignor reluctantly, as he viewed the situation.

"And new reasons, not to be controverted, have sprung up around Arthur Dillon. For Horace Endicott
there is nothing in that old life but public disgrace. Do you know that I hate that fat fool,
that wretched cuckold who had not sense enough to discover what the uninterested knew about
that woman? I would not wear his name, nor go back to his circle, if the man and woman were
dead, and the secret buried forever."

"He was young and innocent," said the priest with a pitiful glance at Arthur.

"And selfish and sensual too. I despise him. He would never have been more than an empty-headed
pleasure-seeker. With that wife he could have become anything you please. The best thing he
did was his flight into everlasting obscurity, and that he owed to the simple, upright, strong-hearted
woman who nourished him in his despair. Monsignor," and he laid his firm hand on the knee of
the priest and looked at him with terrible eyes, "I would choose death rather than go back
to what I was. I shall never go back. I get hot with shame when I think of the part an Endicott
played as Sonia Westfield's fool."

"And the reason not to be controverted?"

"In what a position my departure would leave my mother. Have you thought of that? After all
her kindness, her real affection, as if I had been her own son. She thinks now that I am her
son, and I feel that she is my mother. And what would induce me to expose her to the public
gaze as the chief victim, or the chief plotter in a fraud? If it had to be done, I would wait
in any event until my mother was dead. But beyond all these minor reasons is one that overshadows
everything. I am Arthur Dillon. That other man is not only dead, he is as unreal to me as the
hero of any book I read in my boyhood. It was hard to give up the old personality; to give
up what I am now would be impossible. I am what I seem. I feel, think, speak, dream Arthur
Dillon. The roots would bleed if I were to transplant myself. I found my career among your
people, and the meaning of life. There is no other career for me. These are the people I love.
I will never raise between them and me so odious a barrier as the story of my disappearance
would be. They could never take to Horace Endicott. Oh, I have given the matter a moment's
thought, Monsignor. The more I dwell on it, the worse it seems."

He considered the point for a moment, and then whispered with joyous triumph, "I have succeeded
beyond my own expectations. I have disappeared even from myself. An enemy cannot find me, not
even my own confession would reveal me. The people who love me would swear to a man that I
am Arthur Dillon, and that only insanity could explain my own confession. At the very least
they would raise such a doubt in the mind of a judge that he would insist on clean proofs from
both sides. But there's the clear fact. I have escaped from myself, disappeared from the sight
of Arthur Dillon. Before long I can safely testify to a dream I had of having once been a wretch
named Horace Endicott. But I have a doubt even now that I was such a man."

"My God, but it's weird," said Monsignor with emotion, as he rose to walk the room. "I have
the same notion myself at times."

"It's a matter to be left undisturbed, or some one will go crazy over it," Arthur said seriously.

"And you are happy, really happy? The sight of this woman did not revive in you any regret...."

"I am happy, Monsignor, beyond belief," with a contented sigh. "It would be too much to expect
perfect happiness. Yet that is within my reach. If I were only free to marry Honora Ledwith."

"I heard of that too," said the priest meditatively. "Has she any regard for you?"

"As a brother. How could I have asked any other love? And I am rich in that. Since there is
no divorce for Catholics, I could not let her see the love which burned in me. I had no hope."

"And she goes into the convent, I believe. You must not stand in God's way."

"I have not, though I delayed her going because I could not bear to part from her. Willingly
I have resigned her to God, because I know that in His goodness, had I been free, He would
have given her to me."

Monsignor paused as if struck by the thought and looked at him for a moment.

"It is the right spirit," was his brief comment.

He loved this strange, incomprehensible man, who had stood for five years between his adopted
people and their enemies in many a fight, who had sought battle in their behalf and heaped
them with favors. His eyes saw the depth of that resignation which gave to God the one jewel
that would have atoned for the horrid sufferings of the past. If he were free! He thought of
old Lear moaning over dead Cordelia.

                          She lives! If it be so,
    It is a chance which does redeem all sorrows
    That ever I have felt.

"It is the right spirit," he repeated as he considered the matter. "One must not stand in the
way of a soul, or in the way of God. Yet were you free, where would be the advantage? She is
for the convent, and has never thought of you in the way of love."

"Love begets love, father dear. I could light the flame in her heart, for I am dear to her
as a brother, as her father's son."

"Then her dream of the convent, which she has cherished so many years, cannot be more than
a dream, if she resigned it for you."

"I cannot argue with you," he said hopelessly, "and it's a sad subject. There is only the will
of God to be done."

"And if you were free," went on Monsignor smiling, "and tried and failed to light love in her
heart, you would suffer still more."

"A little more or less would not matter. I would be happy still to give her to God."

"I see, I see," shaking his sage head. "To God! As long as it is not to another and luckier
fellow, the resignation is perfect."

Arthur broke into a laugh, and the priest said casually:

"I think that by the law of the Church you are a free man."

Arthur leaped to his feet with a face like death.

"In the name of God!" he cried.

Monsignor pushed him back into his chair.

"That's my opinion. Just listen, will you. Then take your case to a doctor of the law. There
is a kind of divorce in the Church known as the Pauline Privilege. Let me state the items,
and do you examine if you can claim the privilege. Horatius, an infidel, that is, unbaptized,
deserts his wife legally and properly, because of her crimes; later he becomes a Catholic;
meeting a noble Catholic lady, Honoria, he desires to marry her; question, is he free to contract
this marriage? The answer of the doctors of the law is in the affirmative, with the following
conditions: that the first wife be an infidel, that is, unbaptized; that to live with her is
impossible; that she has been notified of his intention to break the marriage. The two latter
conditions are fulfilled in your case the moment the first wife secures the divorce which enables
her to marry her paramour. Horatius is then free to marry Honoria, or any other Catholic lady,
but not a heretic or a pagan. This is called the Pauline Privilege because it is described
in the Epistle of St. Paul to the Corinthians. My opinion is that you are free."

The man, unable to speak, or move, felt his hope grow strong and violent out of the priest's words.

"Mind, it's only my opinion," said Monsignor, to moderate his transports.

"You must go to Dr. Bender, the theologian, to get a purely legal decision. I fear that I am
only adding to your misery. What if he should decide against you? What if she should decide
against you?"

"Neither will happen," with painful effort. Sudden joy overcame him with that anguish of the
past, and this was overwhelming, wonderful.

"The essence of love is sacrifice," said Monsignor, talking to give him time for composure.
"Not your good only, but the happiness of her you love must control your heart and will; and
above all there must be submission to God. When He calls, the child must leave the parent,
the lover his mistress, all ties must be broken."

"I felt from the beginning that this would come to pass," said Arthur weakly. "Oh, I made my
sacrifice long ago. The facts were all against me, of course. Easy to make the sacrifice which
had to be made. I can make another sacrifice, but isn't it now her turn? Oh, Monsignor, all
my joy seems to come through you! From that first moment years ago, when we met, I can date----"

"All your sorrow," the priest interrupted.

"And all my joy. Well, one cannot speak of these great things, only act. I'm going to the theologian.
Before I sleep to-night he must settle that case. I know from your eyes it will be in my favor.
I can bear disappointment. I can bear anything now. I am free from that creature, she is without
a claim on me in any way, law, fact, religion, sympathy. Oh, my God!"

Monsignor could not hinder the tears that poured from his eyes silently. He clasped Arthur's
hand and saw him go as he wept. In his varied life he had never seen so intimately any heart,
none so strange and woful in its sorrow and its history, none so pathetic. The man lived entirely
on the plane of tragedy, in the ecstasy of pain; a mystery, a problem, a wonder, yet only an
average, natural, simple man, that had fought destiny with strange weapons.

This story Arthur whispered to Louis, floating between the moonlit shores of Champlain. He
lay in the stern watching the rhythmic rise of the oar-blades, and the flashing of the water-drops
falling back like diamonds into the wave. Happiness lay beside him steering the boat, a seraph
worked the oars, the land ahead must be paradise. His was a lover's story, clear, yet broken
with phrases of love; for was he not speaking to the heart, half his own, that beat with his
in unison? The tears flowed down the deacon's cheek, tears of dread and of sympathy. What if
Honora refused this gift laid so reverently at her feet? He spoke his dread.

"One must take the chance," said the lover calmly. "She is free too. I would not have her bound.
The very air up here will conspire with me to win her. She must learn at once that I want her
for my wife. Then let the leaven work."

The boat came back to the landing. The ladies sat on the veranda chatting quietly, watching
the moon which rose higher and higher, and threw Valcour into shadow so deep, that it looked
like a great serpent asleep on a crystal rock, nailed by a golden spike through its head to
the crystal rock beneath. The lighthouse lamp burning steadily at the south point, and its
long reflection in the still waters, was the golden nail. A puffing tug passed by with its
procession of lumber boats, fanciful with colored lights, resounding with the roaring songs
of the boatmen; and the waves recorded their protest against it in long groans on the shore.
Arthur drank in the scene without misgiving, bathed in love as in moonlight. This moon would
see the consummation of his joy.

CHAPTER XXXIII.

LOVE IS BLIND.

Next morning after breakfast the house began to echo with the singing of the inmates. Mona
sang to the baby in an upper room, the Deacon thrummed the piano and hummed to himself in the
raucous voice peculiar to most churchmen. Judy in the kitchen meditatively crooned to her maids
an ancient lamentation, and out on the lawn, Arthur sang to his mother an amorous ditty in
compliment to her youthful appearance. Honora, the song-bird, silent, heard with amusement
this sudden lifting up of voices, each unconscious of the other. Arthur's bawling dominated.

"Has the house gone mad?" she inquired from the hallway stairs, so clearly that the singers
paused to hear. "What is the meaning of all this uproar of song. Judy in the kitchen, Mona
in the nursery, Louis in the parlor, Arthur on the lawn?"

The criminals began to laugh at the coincidence.

"I always sing to baby," Mona screamed in justification.

"I wasn't singing, I never sing," Louis yelled from the parlor.

"Mother drove me to it," Arthur howled through the door.

"I think the singin' was betther nor the shoutin'," Judy observed leaning out of the window
to display her quizzical smile.

A new spirit illumined the old farmhouse. Love had entered it, and hope had followed close
on his heels; hope that Honora would never get to her beloved convent. They loved her so and
him that with all their faith, their love and respect for the convent life, gladly would they
have seen her turn away from the holy doors into Arthur's reverential arms. With the exception
of Anne. So surely had she become his mother that the thought of giving him up to any woman
angered her. She looked coldly on Honora for having inspired him with a foolish passion.

"Come down, celestial goddess," said Arthur gayly, "and join the Deacon and me in a walk over
the bluff, through the perfumed woods, down the loud-resounding shore. Put on rubbers, for
the dew has no respect for the feet of such divinity."

They went off together in high spirits, and Mona came down to the veranda with the baby in
her arms to look after them. Anne grieved at the sight of their intimacy.

"I have half a mind," she said, "to hurry Honora off to her convent, or to bring Sister Magdalen
and the Mother Superior up here to strengthen her. If that boy has his way, he'll marry her
before Christmas. He has the look of it in his eye."

"And why shouldn't he?" Mona asked. "If she will have him, then she has no business with the
convent, and it will be a good opportunity for her to test her vocation."

"And what luck will there be in it for him?" said the mother bitterly. "How would you feel
if some hussy cheated Louis out of his priesthood, with blue eyes and golden hair and impudence?
If Arthur wants to marry after waiting so long, let him set eyes on women that ask for marriage.
He'll never have luck tempting a poor girl from the convent."

"Little ye think o' the luck," said Judy, who had come out to have her morning word with the
mistress. "Weren't ye goin' into a convent yerself whin Pat Dillon kem along, an' wid a wink
tuk ye to church undher his arm. An' is there a woman in the whole world that's had greater
luck than yerself?"

"Oh, I know you are all working for the same thing, all against me," Anne said pettishly.

"Faith we are, and may the angels guide him and her to each other. Can't a blind man see they
wor made to be man an' wife? An' I say it, knowin' that the convent is the best place in the
world for anny girl. I wish every girl that was born wint there. If they knew what is lyin'
in wait for thim whin they take up wid a man, there wouldn't be convents enough to hould all
that wud be runnin' to thim. But ye know as well as I do that the girls are not med for the
convent, except the blessed few...."

Anne fled from the stream of Judy's eloquence, and the old lady looked expressively at Mona.

"She's afraid she's goin' to lose her Artie. Oh, these Irish mothers! they'd kape a boy till
his hairs were gray, an' mek him belave it too, if they cud. I never saw but wan mother crazy
to marry her son. That was Biddy Brady, that wint to school wid yer mother, an' poor Micksheen
was a born ijit, wid a lip hangin' like a sign, so's ye cud hang an auction notice on it. Sure,
the poor boy wudn't lave his mother for Vanus herself, an' the mother batin' him out o' the
house every day, an' he bawlin' for fear the women wud get hould of him."

Honora had observed the happy change in Arthur, her knight of service, who had stood between
her and danger, and had fought her battles with chivalry; asking no reward, hinting at none,
because she had already given him all, a sister's love. What tenderness, what adoration, what
service had he lavished on her, unmarred by act, or word, or hint! God would surely reward
him for his consideration. Walking through the scented woods she found it easy to tell them
of the date fixed for her entrance into the convent. Grand trees were marshalled along the
path, supporting a roof of gold and green, where the sun fell strong on the heavy foliage.

"September," said Arthur making a calculation. "Why not wait until October and then shed your
colors with the trees. I can see her," he went on humorously, "decorously arranging the black
dress so that it will hang well, and not make her a fright altogether before the other women;
and getting a right tilt to the black bonnet and enough lace in it to set off her complexion."

"Six months later," said the Deacon taking up the strain, "she will do better than that. Discarding
the plain robes of the postulant, she will get herself into the robes of a bride...."

"Oh, sooner than that," said Arthur with a meaning which escaped her.

"No, six months is the period," she corrected seriously.

"In wedding finery she will prance before her delighted friends for a few minutes, and then
march out to shed white silk and fleecy tulle. A vengeful nun, whose hair has long been worn
away, will then clip with one snip of the scissors her brown locks from her head...."

"Horror!" cried Arthur.

"Sure, straight across the neck, you know, like the women's-rights people. Then the murder
of the hair has to be concealed, so they put on a nightcap, and hide that with a veil, and
then bring her into the bishop to tell him it's all right, and that she's satisfied."

"And what do they make of the hair?" said Arthur.

"That's one of the things yet to be revealed."

"And after that she is set at chasing the rule, or being chased by the rule for two years.
She studies striking examples of observing the rule, and of the contrary. She has a shy at
observing it herself, and the contrary. The rule is it when she observes it; she's it when
she doesn't. At this point the mother superior comes into the game."

"Where do the frowsy children come in?"

"At meals usually. Honora cuts the bread and her fingers, butters it, and passes it round;
the frowsy butter themselves, and Honora; this is an act of mortification, which is intensified
when the mistress of novices discovers the butter on her habit."

"Finally the last stage is worse than the first, I suppose. Having acquired the habit she gets
into it so deeply...."

"She sheds it once more, Arthur. Then she's tied to the frowsy children forever, and is known
as Sister Mary of the Cold Shoulder to the world."

"This is a case of rescue," said Arthur with determination, "I move we rescue her this minute.
Help, help!"

The woods echoed with his mocking cries. Honora had not spoken, the smile had died away, and
she was plainly offended. Louis observant passed a hint to Arthur, who made the apology.

"We shall be there," he said humbly, "with our hearts bleeding because we must surrender you.
And who are we that you need care? It is poor Ireland that will mourn for the child that bathed
and bound her wounds, that watched by her in the dark night, and kept the lamp of hope and
comfort burning, that stirred hearts to pity and service, that woke up Lord Constantine and
me, and strangers and enemies like us, to render service; the child whose face and voice and
word and song made the meanest listen to a story of injustice; all shut out, concealed, put
away where the mother may never see or hear her more."

His voice broke, his eyes filled with tears at the vividness of the vision called up in the
heart of the woods; and he walked ahead to conceal his emotion. Honora stopped dead and looked
inquiringly at the Deacon, who switched the flowers with downcast eyes.

"What is the meaning of it, Louis?"

He knew not how to make answer, thinking that Arthur should be the first to tell his story.

"Do you think that we can let you go easily?" he said. "If we tease you as we did just now
it is to hide what we really suffer. His feeling got the better of him, I think."

The explanation sounded harmless. For an instant a horrid fear that these woods must witness
another scene like Lord Constantine's chilled her heart. She comforted Arthur like a sister.

"Do not feel my going too deeply. Change must come. Let us be glad it is not death, or a journey
into distant lands with no return. I shall be among you still, and meanwhile God will surely
comfort you."

"Oh, if we could walk straight on like this," Arthur answered, "through the blessed, free,
scented forest, just as we are, forever! And walking on for years, content with one another,
you, Louis, and I, come out at last, as we shall soon come out here on the lake, on the shore
of eternity, just as life's sun sets, and the moon of the immortal life rises; and then without
change, or the anguish of separation and dying, if we could pass over the waters, and enter
the land of eternity, taking our place with God and His children, our friends, that have been
there so long!"

"Is not that just what we are to do, not after your fashion, but after the will of God, Arthur?
Louis at the altar, I in the convent before the altar, and you in the field of battle fighting
for us both. Aaron, Miriam, Moses, here are the three in the woods of Champlain, as once in
the desert of Arabia," and she smiled at the young men.

Louis returned the smile, and Arthur gave her a look of adoration, so tender, so bold, that
she trembled. The next moment, when the broad space through which they were walking ended in
a berry-patch, he plunged among the bushes with eagerness, to gather for her black raspberries
in his drinking-cup. Her attempt to discuss her departure amiably had failed.

"I am tired already," said she to Louis helplessly. "I shall go back to the house, and leave
you to go on together."

"Don't blame him," the Deacon pleaded, perceiving how useless was concealment. "If you knew
how that man has suffered in his life, and how you opened heaven to him ..." she made a gesture
of pain ... "remember all his goodness and be gentle with him. He must speak before you go.
He will take anything from you, and you alone can teach him patience and submission."

"How long...." she began. He divined what she would have asked.

"Mona has known it more than a year, but no one else, for he gave no sign. I know it only a
short time. After all it is not to be wondered at. He has been near you, working with you for
years. His life has been lonely somehow, and you seemed to fill it. Do not be hasty with him.
Let him come to his avowal and his refusal in his own way. It is all you can do for him. Knowing
you so well he probably knows what he has to receive."

Arthur came back with his berries and poured them out on a leaf for her to eat. Seated for
a little on a rock, while he lay on the ground at her feet, she ate to please him; but her
soul in terror saw only the white face of Lord Constantine, and thought only of the pain in
store for this most faithful friend. Oh, to have it out with him that moment! Yet it seemed
too cruel. But how go on for a month in dread of what was to come?

She loved him in her own beautiful way. Her tears fell that night as she sat in her room by
the window watching the high moon, deep crimson, rising through the mist over the far-off islands.
How bitter to leave her beloved even for God, when the leaving brought woe to them! So long
she had waited for the hour of freedom, and always a tangle at the supreme moment! How could
she be happy and he suffering without the convent gates? This pity was to be the last temptation,
her greatest trial. Its great strength did not disarm her. If twenty broke their hearts on
that day, she would not give up her loved design. Let God comfort them, since she could not.
But the vision of a peaceful entrance into the convent faded. She would have to enter, as she
had passed through life, carrying the burden of another's woe, in tears.

She could see that he never lost heart. The days passed delightfully, and somehow his adoration
pleased her. Having known him in many lights, there was novelty in seeing him illumined by
candid love. How could he keep so high a courage with the end so dark and so near? Honora had
no experience of love, romantic love, and she had always smiled at its expression in the novels
of the time. If Arthur only knew the task he had set for himself! She loved him truly, but
marriage repelled her almost, except in others.

Therefore, having endured the uncertainty of the position a week, she had it out with Arthur.
Sitting on the rocks of an ancient quarry, high above the surface of the lake, they watched
the waters rough and white from the strong south wind. The household had adjourned that day
for lunch to this wild spot, and the members were scattered about, leaving them, as they always
did now, by common consent alone.

"Perhaps," she said calmly, "this would be a good time to talk to you, Arthur, as sister to
brother ... can't we talk as brother and sister?"

For a change came over his face that sickened her. The next moment he was ready for the struggle.

"I fear not, Honora," said he humbly. "I fear we can never do that again."

"Then you are to stand in my way too?" with bitterness.

"No, but I am not going to stand in my own way," he replied boldly. "Have I ever stood in your
way, Honora?"

"You have always helped me. Do not fail me at the last, I beg of you."

"I shall never fail you, nor stand in your way. You are free now as your father wished you
to be. You shall go to the convent on the date which you have named. Neither Ireland, nor anything
but your heart shall hinder you. You have seen my heart for a week as you never saw it before.
Do not let what you saw disturb or detain you. I told your father of it the last day of his
life, and he was glad. He said it was like ... he was satisfied. Both he and I were of one
mind that you should be free. And you are."

Ideas and words fled from her. The situation of her own making she knew not how to manage.
What could be more sensible than his speech?

"Very well, thank you," she said helplessly.

He had perfect control of himself, but his attitude expressed his uneasiness, his face only
just concealed his pain. All his life in moments like this, Arthur Dillon would suffer from
his earliest sorrow.

"I hope you will all let me go with resignation," she began again.

"I give you to God freely," was his astonishing answer, "but I may tell you it is my hope He
will give you back to me. I have nothing, and He is the Lord of all. He has permitted my heart
to be turned to ashes, and yet gave it life again through you. I have confidence in Him. To
you I am nothing; in the future I shall be only a memory to be prayed for. If we had not God
to lift us up, and repay us for our suffering, to what would we come? I could not make my heart
clear to you, show you its depths of feeling, frightful depths, I think sometimes, and secure
your pity. God alone, the master of hearts, can do that. I have been generous to the last farthing.
He will not be outdone by me."

"Oh, my God!" she murmured, looking at him in wonder, for his words sounded insanely to her ear.

"I love you, Honora," he went on, with a flush on his cheek, and so humble that he kept his
eyes on the ground. "Go, in spite of that, if God demands it. If you can, knowing that I shall
be alone, how much alone no one may know, go nevertheless. Only bear it in mind, that I shall
wait for you outside the convent gate. If you cannot remain thinking of me, I shall be ready
for you. If not here, then hereafter, as God wills. But you are free, and I love you. Before
you go, God's beloved," and he looked at her then with eyes so beautiful that her heart went
out to him, "you must let me tell you what I have been. You will pray for me better, when you
have learned how far a man can sink into hell, and yet by God's grace reach heaven again."

CHAPTER XXXIV.

A HARPY AT THE FEAST.

Honora now saw that suffering was not to be avoided. Experience had taught her how to economize
with it. In the wood one day she watched for minutes two robins hopping about in harmony, feeding,
singing now and then low notes of content from a bough, and always together. A third robin
made appearance on the scene, and their content vanished. Irritated and uneasy, even angered,
they dashed at the intruder, who stood his ground, confident of his strength. For a long time
he fought them, leaving only at his own pleasure. Longer still the pair remained unquiet, distressed
by the struggle rather than wearied, complaining to each other tenderly.

Behold a picture of her own mind, its order upset by the entrance of a new idea. That life
of the mind, which is our true life, had to change its point of view in order to meet and cope
with the newcomer. Arthur's love had the fiber of tragedy. She felt rather than knew its nature.
For years it had been growing in his strong heart, disciplined by steady buffeting, by her
indifference, by his own hard circumstances; no passion of an hour like Romeo's; more like
her father's love for Erin.

Former ideas began to shift position, and to struggle against the intruder vainly. Some fought
in his favor. The vision of convent peace grew dim. She must take it with tears, and his sorrow
would cloud its beauty. Marriage, always so remote from her life, came near, and tried to prove
the lightness of its yoke with Arthur as the mate. The passion of her father's life awoke.
Dear Erin cried out to her for the help which such a union would bring.

Her fixed resolve to depart for her convent in September kept the process from tangle. Sweet
indeed was the thought of how nobly he loved her. She was free. God alone was the arbiter.
None would hinder her going, if her heart did not bid her stay for his sake. Her father had
needed her. She would never have forgiven herself had she left him to carry his sorrow alone.
Perhaps this poor soul needed her more. With delight one moment and shame the next, she saw
herself drifting towards him. Nevertheless she did not waver, nor change the date of her departure.

Arthur continued to adore at her shrine as he had done for years, and she studied him with
the one thought: how will he bear new sorrow? No man bore the mark of sorrow more terribly
when he let himself go, and at times his mask fell off in spite of resolve. As a lover Honora,
with all her distaste for marriage, found him more lovable than ever, and had to admit that
companionship with her hero would not be irritating. The conspiracy in his favor flourished
within and without the citadel. Knowing that he adored her, she liked the adoration. To any
goddess the smell of the incense is sweet, the sight of the flowers, the humid eyes, the leaping
heart delightful. Yet she put it one side when the day over, and she knelt in her room for
prayer. Like a dream the meanings of the day faded, and the vision of her convent cell, its
long desired peace and rest, returned with fresher coloring. The men and women of her little
world, the passions and interests of the daylight, so faded, that they seemed to belong to
another age.

While this comedy went on the farmhouse and its happy life were keenly and bitterly watched
by the wretched wife of Curran. It was her luck, like Sonia's, to spoil her own feast in defiling
her enemy's banquet. Having been routed at all points and all but sent to Jezebel's fate by
Arthur Dillon, she had stolen into this paradise to do what mischief she could. Thus it happened,
at the moment most favorable for Arthur's hopes, when Honora inclined towards him out of sisterly
love and pity, that the two women met in a favorite haunt of Honora's, in the woods near the
lake shore.

To reach it one took a wild path through the woods, over the bluff, and along the foot of the
hill, coming out on a small plateau some fifteen feet above the lake. Behind rose a rocky wall,
covered with slender pines and cedars; noble trees shaded the plateau, leaving a clearing towards
the lake; so that one looked out as from a frame of foliage on the blue waters, the islet of
St. Michel, and the wooded cape known as Cumberland Head.

As Honora entered this lovely place, Edith sat on a stone near the edge of the precipice, enjoying
the view. She faced the newcomer with unfailing impertinence, and coolly studied the woman
whom Arthur Dillon loved. Sickness of heart filled her with rage. The evil beauty of Sonia
and herself showed purely animal beside the pale spiritual luster that shone from this noble,
sad-hearted maid. Honora bowed distantly and passed on. Edith began to glow with delight of
torturing her presently, and would not speak lest her pleasure be hurried. The instinct of
the wild beast, to worry the living game, overpowered her. What business had Honora with so
much luck? The love of Arthur, fame as a singer, beauty, and a passion for the perfect life?
God had endowed herself with three of these gifts. Having dragged them through the mud, she
hated the woman who had used them with honor. What delight that in a moment she could torture
her with death's anguish!

"I came here in the hope of meeting you, madam," she began suddenly, "if you are Miss Ledwith.
I come to warn you."

"I do not need warnings from strangers," Honora replied easily, studying the other for an instant
with indifferent eyes, "and if you wished me to see on proper matters you should have called
at the house."

"For a scene with the man who ran away from his wife before he deceived me, and then made love
to you? I could hardly do that," said she as demure and soft as a purring cat.

Honora's calm look plainly spoke her thought: the creature was mad.

"I am not mad. Miss Ledwith, and your looks will not prevent me warning you. Arthur Dillon
is not the man he pretends----"

"Please go away," Honora interrupted.

"He is not the son of Anne Dillon----"

"Then I shall go," said Honora, but Edith barred the only way out of the place, her eyes blazing
with the insane pleasure of torturing the innocent. Honora turned her back on her and walked
down to the edge of the cliff, where she remained until the end.

"I know Arthur Dillon better than you know him," Edith went on, "and I know you better than
you think. Once I had the honor of your acquaintance. That doesn't matter. Neither does it
matter just who Arthur Dillon is. He's a fraud from cover to cover. His deserted wife is living,
poor as well as neglected. The wretched woman has sought him long----"

"Why don't you put her on the track?" Honora asked, relieved that the lunatic wished only to talk.

"He makes love to you now as he has done for years, and he hopes to marry you soon. I can tell
that by his behavior. I warn you that he is not free to marry. His wife lives. If you marry
him I shall put her on his track, and give you a honeymoon of scandal. It was enough for him
to have wrecked my life and broken my heart. I shall not permit him to repeat that work on
any other unfortunate."

"Is that all?"

Edith, wholly astonished at the feeble impression made by her story, saw that her usual form
had been lacking. Her scorn for Honora suggested that acting would be wasted on her; that the
mere news of the living wife would be sufficient to plunge her into anguish. But here was no
delight of pallid face and trembling limbs. Her tale would have gone just as well with the trees.

"I have risked my life to tell you this," said she throwing in the note of pathos. "If Arthur
Dillon, or whoever he is, hears of it, he will kill me."

"Don't worry then," and Honora turned about with benign face and manner, quite suited to the
need of a crazy patient escaped from her keepers, "I shall never tell him. But please go, for
some one is coming. It may be he."

Edith turned about swiftly and saw a form approaching through the trees. She had her choice
of two paths a little beyond, and fled by the upper one. Her fear of Arthur had become mortal.
As it was she rushed into the arms of Louis, who had seen the fleeing form, and thought to
play a joke upon Mona or Honora. He dropped the stranger and made apologies for his rudeness.
She curtsied mockingly, and murmured:

"Possibly we have met before."

The blood rose hot to his face as he recognized her, and her face paled as he seized her by
the wrist with scant courtesy.

"I scarcely hoped for the honor of meeting you again, Sister Claire. Of course you are here
only for mischief, and Arthur Dillon must see you and settle with you. I'll trouble you to
come with me."

"You have not improved," she snarled. "You would attack my honor again."

Then she screamed for help once, not the second time, which might have brought Arthur to the
scene; but Honora came running to her assistance.

"Ah, this was your prey, wolf?" said Louis coolly. "Honora, has she been lying to you, this
fox, Sister Claire, Edith Conyngham, with a string of other names not to be remembered? Didn't
you know her?"

Honora recoiled. Edith stood in shame, with the mortified expression of the wild beast, the
intelligent fox, trapped by an inferior boy.

"Oh, let her go, Louis," she pleaded.

"Not till she has seen Arthur. The mischief she can do is beyond counting. Arthur knows how
to deal with her."

"I insist," said Honora. "Come away, Louis, please, come away."

He flung away her wrist with contempt, and pointed out her path. In a short time she had disappeared.

"And what had she to tell you, may I ask?" said the Deacon. "Like the banshee her appearance
brings misfortune to us."

"You have always been my confidant, Louis," she answered after some thought. "Do you know anything
about the earlier years of Arthur Dillon?"

"Much. Was that her theme?"

"That he was married and his wife still lives."

"He will tell you about that business himself no doubt. I know nothing clear or certain ...
some hasty expressions of feeling ... part of a dream ... the declaration that all was well
now ... and so on. But I shall tell him. Don't object, I must. The woman is persistent and
diabolical in her attempts to injure us. He must know at least that she is in the vicinity.
He will guess what she's after without any further hint. But you mustn't credit her, Honora.
As you know...."

"Oh, I know," she answered with a smile. "The wretched creature is not to be believed under
any circumstances. Poor soul!"

Nevertheless she felt the truth of Edith's story. It mattered little whether Arthur was Anne
Dillon's son, he would always be the faithful, strong friend, and benefactor. That he had a
wife living, the living witness of the weakness of his career in the mines, shocked her for
the moment. The fact carried comfort too. Doubt fled, and the weighing of inclinations, the
process kept up by her mind apart from her will, ceased of a sudden. The great pity for Arthur,
which had welled up in her heart like a new spring, dried up at its source. For the first time
she felt the sin in him, the absence of the ideal. He had tripped and fallen like all his kind
in the wild days of youth; and according to his nature had been repeating with her the drama
enacted with his first love. She respected his first love. She respected the method of nature,
but did not feel forced to admire it.

Her distaste for the intimacy of marriage returned with tenfold strength. One might have become
submissive and companionable with a virgin nature; to marry another woman's lover seemed ridiculous.
This storm cleared the air beautifully. Her own point of view became plainer, and she saw how
far inclination had hurried her. For some hours she had been near to falling in love with Arthur,
had been willing to yield to tender persuasion. The woman guilty of such weakness did not seem
at this moment to have been Honora Ledwith; only a poor soul, like a little ship in a big wind,
borne away by the tempest of emotion.

She had no blame for Arthur. His life was his own concern. Part of it had brought her much
happiness. Edith's scandalous story did not shake her confidence in him. Undoubtedly he was
free to marry, or he would not have approached her. His freedom from a terrible bond must have
been recent, since his manner towards herself had changed only that summer, within the month
in fact. The reserve of years had been prompted by hard conditions. In honor he could not woo.
Ah, in him ran the fibre of the hero, no matter what might have been his mistakes! He had resisted
every natural temptation to show his love. Once more they were brother and sister, children
of the dear father whose last moments they had consoled. Who would regret the sorrow which
led to such a revealing of hearts?

The vision of her convent rose again to her pleased eye, fresh and beautiful as of old, and
dearer because of the passing darkness which had concealed it for a time; the light from the
chapel windows falling upon the dark robes in the choir, the voices of the reader, chanter,
and singer, and the solemn music of the organ; the procession filing silently from one duty
to another, the quiet cell when the day was over, and the gracious intimacy with God night
and day. Could her belief and her delight in that holy life have been dim for an instant? Ah,
weakness of the heart! The mountain is none the less firm because clouds obscure its lofty
form. She had been wrapped in the clouds of feeling, but never once had her determination failed.

CHAPTER XXXV.

SONIA CONSULTS LIVINGSTONE.

Edith's visit, so futile, so unlike her, had been prompted by the hatefulness of her nature.
The expedition to California had failed, her effort to prove her instincts true had come to
nothing, and Arthur Dillon had at last put his foot down and extinguished her and Sonia together.
Free to snarl and spit if they chose, the two cats could never plot seriously against him more.
Curran triumphed in the end. Tracking Arthur Dillon through California had all the features
of a chase through the clouds after a bird. The scene changed with every step, and the ground
just gone over faded like a dream.

They found Dillons, a few named Arthur, some coincidences, several mysteries, and nothing beyond.
The police still had the photographs sent out by Anne Dillon, and a record that the man sought
for had been found and returned to his mother. The town where the search ended had only a ruined
tavern and one inhabitant, who vaguely remembered the close of the incident. Edith surrendered
the search in a violent temper, and all but scratched out the eyes of her devoted slave. To
Sonia the detective put the net result very sensibly.

"Arthur Dillon did not live in California under his own name," said he, "and things have so
changed there in five years that his tracks have been wiped out as if by rain. All that has
been done so far proves this man to be just what he appears. We never had a worse case, and
never took up a more foolish pursuit. We have proved just one sure thing: that if this man
be Horace, then he can't be found. He is too clever to be caught, until he is willing to reveal
himself. If you pursue him to the point which might result in his capture, there'll be murder
or worse waiting for you at that point. It might be better for you two not to find him."

This suggestion, clever and terrifying, Sonia could not understand as clearly as Curran. She
thought the soft nature of Horace quite manageable, and if murder were to be done her knife
should do it. Oh, to seize his throat with her beautiful hands, to press and squeeze and dig
until the blood gorged his face, and to see him die by inches, gasping! He had lied like a
coward! Nothing easier to destroy than such a wretch!

"Don't give up, Sonia," was Edith's comment on the wise words of Curran. "Get a good lawyer,
and by some trick drag Dillon and his mother and the priest to court, put them on oath as to
who the man is; they won't perjure themselves, I'll wager."

"That is my thought," said Sonia tenderly nursing the idea. "There seems to be nothing more
to do. I have thought the matter over very carefully. We are at the end. If this fails I mean
to abandon the matter. But for his money I would have let him go as far as he wanted, and I
would let this man pass too but for the hope of getting at his money. It is the only way to
punish Horace, as he punished me. I feel like you, that the mystery is with this Arthur Dillon.
Since I saw you last, he has filled my dreams, and always in the dreams he has been so like
Horace that I now see more of a likeness in Arthur Dillon. I have a relative in the city, a
very successful lawyer, Quincy Livingstone. I shall consult him. Perhaps it would be well for
you to accompany me, Edith. You explain this case so well."

"No, she'll keep out of it, by your leave," the detective answered for her. "Dillon has had
patience with this woman, but he will resent interference so annoying."

Edith made a face at him.

"As if I could be bossed by either you or Arthur. Sonia, you have the right stuff in you, clear
grit. This trick will land your man."

"You'll find an alligator who will eat the legs off you both before you can run away," said Curran.

"Do you know what I think, Dick Curran?" she snapped at him. "That you have been playing the
traitor to us, telling Arthur Dillon all we've been doing. Oh, if I could prove that, you wretch!"

"You have a high opinion of his softness, if you think he would throw away money to learn what
any schoolboy might learn by himself. How much did you, with all your cleverness, get out of
him in the last five years?"

He laughed joyfully at her wicked face.

"Let me tell you this," he added. "You have been teasing that boy as a monkey might a lion.
Now you will set on him the man that he likes least in this world, Livingstone. What a pretty
mouthful you will be when he makes up his mind that you've done enough."

Nevertheless the two women called on Livingstone. The great man, no longer great, no longer
in the eye of the world, out of politics because the charmed circle had closed, and no more
named for high places because his record had made him impossible, had returned to the practice
of law. Eminent by his ability, his achievement, and his blood, but only a private citizen,
the shadow of his failure lay heavy on his life and showed clearly in his handsome face. That
noble position which he had missed, so dear to heart and imagination, haunted his moments of
leisure and mocked his dreams. He had borne the disappointment bravely, had lightly called
it the luck of politics. Now that the past lay in clear perspective, he recognized his own madness.

He had fought with destiny like a fool, had stood in the path of a people to whom God had given
the chance which the rulers of the earth denied them; and this people, through a youth carrying
the sling of David, had ruined him. He had no feeling against Birmingham, nor against Arthur
Dillon. The torrent, not the men, had destroyed him. Yet he had learned nothing. With a fair
chance he would have built another dam the next morning. He was out of the race forever. In
the English mission he had touched the highest mark of his success. He mourned in quiet. Life
had still enough for him, but oh! the keenness of his regret.

Sonia's story he had heard before, at the beginning of the search, as a member of the Endicott
family. The details had never reached him. The cause of Horace Endicott's flight he had forgotten.
Edith in her present costume remained unknown, nor did she enlighten him. Her thought as she
studied him was of Dillon's luck in his enterprises. Behold three of his victims. Sonia repeated
for the lawyer the story of her husband's disappearance, and of the efforts to find him.

"At last I think that I have found him," was her conclusion, "in the person of a man known
in this city as Arthur Dillon."

Livingstone started slightly. However, there must be many Arthur Dillons, the Irish being so
numerous, and tasteless in the matter of names. When she described her particular Arthur his
astonishment became boundless at the absurdity of the supposition.

"You have fair evidence I suppose that he is Horace Endicott, madam?"

"I am sorry to tell you that I have none, because the statement makes one feel so foolish.
On the contrary the search of a clever detective ... he's really clever, isn't he, Edith?...
shows that Dillon is just what he appears to be, the son of Mrs. Anne Dillon. The whole town
believes he is her son. The people who knew him since he was born declare him to be the very
image of his father. Still, I think that he is Horace Endicott. Why I think so, ... Edith,
my dear, it is your turn now. Do explain to the lawyer."

Livingstone wondered as the dancer spoke where that beautiful voice and fluent English had
become familiar. Sister Claire had passed from his mind with all the minor episodes of his
political intrigues. He could not find her place in his memory. Her story won him against his
judgment. The case, well put, found strength in the contention that the last move had not been
made, since the three most important characters in the play had not been put to the question.

His mind ran over the chief incidents in that remarkable fight which Arthur Dillon had waged
in behalf of his people: the interview before the election of Birmingham, ... the intrigues
in London, the dexterous maneuvers which had wrecked the campaign against the Irish, had silenced
McMeeter, stunned the Bishop, banished Fritters, ruined Sister Claire, tumbled him from his
lofty position, and cut off his shining future. How frightful the thought that this wide ruin
might have been wrought by an Endicott, one of his own blood!

"A woman's instincts are admirable," he said, politely and gravely, "and they have led you
admirably in this case. But in face of three facts, the failure of the detective, the declaration
of Mr. Dillon, and your failure to recognize your husband after five years, it would be absurd
to persist in the belief that this young man is your husband. Moreover there are intrinsic
difficulties, which would tell even if you had made out a good case for the theory. No Endicott
would take up intimate connection with the Irish. He would not know enough about them, he could
not endure them; his essence would make the scheme, even if it were presented to him by others,
impossible. One has only to think of two or three main difficulties to feel and see the utter
absurdity of the whole thing."

"No doubt," replied Sonia sweetly. "Yet I am determined not to miss this last opportunity to
find my husband. If it fails I shall get my divorce, and ... bother with the matter no more."

Edith smiled faintly at the suggestive pause, and murmured the intended phrase, "marry Quincy
Lenox."

"Very well," said the lawyer. "You have only to begin divorce proceedings here, issue a summons
for the real Horace Endicott, and serve the papers on Mr. Arthur Dillon. You must be prepared
for many events however. The whole business will be ventilated in the journals. The disappearance
will come up again, and be described in the light of this new sensation. Mr. Dillon is eminent
among his people, and well known in this city. It will be a year's wonder to have him sued
in a divorce case, to have it made known that he is supposed to be Horace Endicott."

"That is unavoidable," Edith prompted, seeing a sudden shrinking on the part of Sonia. "Do
not forget, sir, that all Mrs. Endicott wants is the sworn declaration of Arthur Dillon that
he is not Horace Endicott, of his mother that he is her son, of Father O'Donnell that he knows
nothing of Horace Endicott since his disappearance."

"You would not like the case to come to trial?" said the lawyer to Sonia.

"I must get my divorce," she answered coolly, "whether this is the right man or no."

"Let me tell you what may happen after the summons, or notice, is served on Mr. Dillon," said
the lawyer. "The serving can be done so quietly that for some time no others but those concerned
need know about it. I shall assume that Mr. Dillon is not Horace Endicott. In that case he
can ignore the summons, which is not for him, but for another man. He need never appear. If
you insisted on his appearance, you would have to offer some evidence that he is really Horace
Endicott. This you cannot do. He could make affidavit that he is not the man. By that time
the matter would be public property, and he could strike back at you for the scandal, the annoyance,
and the damage done to his good name."

"What I want is to have his declaration under oath that he is not Horace. If he is Horace he
will never swear to anything but the truth."

For the first time Sonia showed emotion, tears dropped from her lovely eyes, and the lawyer
wondered what folly had lost to her husband so sweet a creature. Evidently she admired one
of Horace's good qualities.

"You can get the declaration in that way. To please you, he might at my request make affidavit
without publicity and scenes at court."

"I would prefer the court," said Sonia firmly.

"She's afeared the lawyer suspects her virtue," Edith said to herself.

"Let me now assume that Arthur Dillon is really Horace Endicott," continued Livingstone. "He
must be a consummate actor to play his part so well and so long. He can play the part in this
matter also, by ignoring the summons, and declaring simply that he is not the man. In that
case he leaves himself open to punishment, for if he should thereafter be proved to be Horace
Endicott, the court could punish him for contempt. Or, he can answer the summons by his lawyer,
denying the fact, and stating his readiness to swear that he is not any other than Arthur Dillon.
You would then have to prove that he is Horace Endicott, which you cannot do."

"All I want is the declaration under oath," Sonia repeated.

"And you are ready for any ill consequences, the resentment and suit of Mr. Dillon, for instance?
Understand, my dear lady, that suit for divorce is not a trifling matter for Mr. Dillon, if
he is not Endicott."

"Particularly as he is about to marry a very handsome woman," Edith interjected, heedless of
the withering glance from Sonia.

"Ah, indeed!"

"Then I think some way ought to be planned to get Anne Dillon and the priest into court," Edith
suggested. "Under oath they might give us some hint of the way to find Horace Endicott. The
priest knows something about him."

"I shall be satisfied if Arthur Dillon swears that he is not Horace," Sonia said, "and then
I shall get my divorce and wash my hands of the tiresome case. It has cost me too much money
and worry."

"Was there any reason alleged for the remarkable disappearance of the young man? I knew his
father and mother very well, and admired them. I saw the boy in his schooldays, never afterwards.
You have a child, I understand."

Edith lowered her eyes and looked out of the window on the busy street.

"It is for my child's sake that I have kept up the search," Sonia answered with maternal tenderness.
"Insanity is supposed to be the cause. Horace acted strangely for three months before his disappearance,
he grew quite thin, and was absent most of the time. As it was summer, which I spent at the
shore with friends, I hardly noticed his condition. It was only when he had gone, without warning,
taking considerable money with him, that I recalled his queer behavior. Since then not a scrap
of information, not a trace, nor a hint of him, has ever come back to me. The detectives did
their best until this moment. All has failed."

"Very sad," Livingstone said, touched by the hopeless tone. "Well, as you wish it then, I shall
bring suit for divorce and alimony against Horace Endicott, and have the papers served on Arthur
Dillon. He can ignore them or make his reply. In either case he must be brought to make affidavit
that he is not the man you look for."

"And the others? The priest and Mrs. Dillon?" asked Edith.

"They are of no consequence," was Sonia's opinion.

After settling unimportant details the two women departed. Livingstone found the problem which
they had brought to his notice fascinating. He had always marked Arthur Dillon among his associates,
as an able and peculiar young man, he had been attracted by him, and had listened to his speeches
with more consideration than most young men deserved. His amazing success in dealing with a
Livingstone, his audacity and nerve in attacking the policy which he brought to nothing, were
more wonderful to the lawyer than to the friends of Dillon, who had not seen the task in its
entirety.

And this peculiar fellow was thought to be an Endicott, of his own family, of the English blood,
more Irish than the Irish, bitterer towards him than the priests had been. The very impossibility
of the thing made it charming. What course of thought, what set of circumstances, could turn
the Puritan mind in the Celtic direction? Was there such genius in man to convert one personality
into another so neatly that the process remained undiscoverable, not to be detected by the
closest observation? He shook off the fascination.