The mutual adoration of two individuals, husband and wife, often degenerates into a species
of egoistic enmity toward the remainder of the world. And this, in turn, in many cases reacts
unfavorably upon the love the two feel for each other. Human solidarity, especially in this
day, is already too great not to revenge itself upon the egotistical character of so exclusive
a love. The real ideal of sex in love might be expressed as follows: A man and a woman should
be induced to unite in marriage through genuine sex attraction and harmony of character and
disposition. In this union they should mutually encourage each other to labor socially for
the common good of mankind, in such wise that they further their own mutual education and that
of their children, the beings nearest and dearest to them, as the natural point of departure
for helping general human betterment.

If love in its relation to sex be conceived in this manner, it will purify it by doing away
with its pettinesses and it is just into these pettinesses that the most honest and upright
of matrimonial loves too often degenerate. The constructive work done in common by two human
beings who, while they care lovingly for each other, at the same time encourage each other
to strive and endure in carrying out the principles of right living and high thinking, will
last. Love and marriage looked at from this point of view, are relatively immune from the small
jealousies and other evil little developments of a one-sided, purely physical affection. It
will work for an ever more ideal realization of love in its higher and nobler dispensations.

Real and true love is lasting. The suddenly awakened storm of sex affection for a hitherto
totally unknown person can never be accepted as a true measure for love. This sudden surge
of the sex feeling warps the judgment, makes it possible to overlook the grossest defects,
colors all and everything with heavenly hues. It makes a man who is "in love," or two beings
who are in love, mutually blind, and causes each to carefully conceal his or her real inward
self from the other. This may be the case even when the feelings of both are absolutely honest,
especially if the sex feeling is not paired with cool egoistic calculation. Not until the first
storm of the sex feeling has subsided, when honeymoon weeks are over, is a more normal point
of view regained. And then love, indifference, or hatred, as the case may be develops. It is
for this reason that love at first sight is always dangerous, and that only a longer and more
intimate acquaintance with the object of one's affection is calculated to give a lasting union
a relatively good chance of turning out happily. One thing is worth bearing in mind. Woman
invariably represents the conservative element in the family. Her emotional qualities, combined
with wonderful endurance, always control her intellect more powerfully than is the case with
man; and the feelings and emotions form the conservative element in the human soul.