There is still another method of producing a boat-hull. This hull is known as the Sharpie type.
A Sharpie hull is shown in Fig. 16. The method of producing a hull of this type will be seen
quite clearly by reference to Fig. 17, which shows the boards and parts cut out ready to assemble.
The boards are made from 1/8-inch mahogany, which can be obtained at any lumber-yard. First,
the bow piece is cut to shape and carefully finished. Then the two side pieces are fastened
to it, as shown in Fig. 18. The screws used should be brass, since iron screws will rust and
cause trouble. Three screws should be used for each side board, and they should be driven into
the bow piece so that the screws on one side will not interfere with those on the other. The
first cross-piece is then screwed in place, as shown in Fig. 19. The second and third cross-pieces
are then screwed in place and the back or stern piece attached. The bottom of the boat is then
carefully put in place with small screws. It will be noticed that the bottom board of the boat
is cut to fit the inside of the bottom. It is held in place with small brass brads. The crevices
or seams along the bottom of the boat should be carefully covered with pitch or marine glue
to prevent leakage when the boat is in the water. The bow of the boat should be finished off
nicely to a point with a heavy file or a wood-rasp.

This type of hull is extremely easy to produce and it is capable of carrying a considerable
load. However, it is not a good type to use for all kinds of boats. It makes a splendid little
pleasure yacht or submarine-chaser, but for a torpedo-boat destroyer or a freighter it would
not be suitable.

The young model boat builder is advised not to try to construct hulls from metal. This is a
very difficult task even for the thoroughly experienced mechanic. Wood is much easier to work
with and will produce the same results.

CHAPTER III

HOW TO MAKE SIMPLE BOATS, WITH AND WITHOUT POWER DRIVE

THIS Chapter will be devoted to the construction of very simple types of boats. The boats described
will be constructed largely with blocks of wood cut into various shapes and sizes. The results
obtainable by this method of construction are surprising, and there are few types of boats
that cannot be modeled by following the method. After the model-builder has constructed a few
boats along this principle he will be able to duplicate the general appearance of almost any
craft he sees by carefully planning and cutting the blocks he uses.

The first boat described is a submarine. This is shown in Fig. 20. Four blocks of wood form
the basis of its construction, and these are cut from 1-inch stock, as shown in the drawing.
Such a submarine can be made practically any size up to 12 inches in length. Beyond this size
they begin to look out of proportion and they are more difficult to propel. After nailing the
blocks together as shown in the drawing, a small piece of sheet brass is bent at right angles
and tacked to the stern piece. This is to act as a bearing for the propeller.

The propeller-shaft is bent into a hook over which rubber bands are placed. The opposite end
of the rubber bands are fastened to a screw-eye driven into the under side of the bow. A heavy
piece of copper wire is fastened to the stern of the boat by staples, and bent as shown. A
rudder is then cut from thin sheet brass, and the end of it is bent around a piece of wire
larger in diameter than the wire used for the rudder-post. It is then taken from this wire
and slipped over the wire on the boat. It should be pinched in place by a pair of pliers, so
that it will stay in any position in which it is put. The end of the wire is bent over so that
the rudder will not slip off. The boat can be steered in a circle or it can be made to go straight,
depending upon the position of the propeller.

