The boiler of a flash steam plant is covered with sheet iron so as to prevent drafts of air
from deflecting the flame from the center of the boiler coils. The cover is provided with ventilators,
so that the burner will not be smothered. If enough oxygen does not enter the interior of the
boiler coils, poor combustion will result, and the gasolene flame will not develop its maximum
heat. Upon referring again to the diagram, it will be seen that the exhaust steam pipe from
the engine discharges into the stack of the boiler covering. This discharge greatly facilitates
the circulation of air through the boiler coils.

After a flash steam plant has been started it will work automatically, providing all the parts
are in good running order. Flash steam plants, however, are difficult to get in the proper
adjustment, and once adjusted they are easily disturbed by minor causes. Owing to the fact
that every square inch of surface in the flash coils is heating surface, the amount of water
supplied to the boiler must be exactly what is needed. The heat must also be regulated so that
the temperature of the steam will just meet the engine's needs. Many times an increase in heat
causes the steam to reach such a temperature that it will burn up the lubricating oil before
it reaches the cylinder of the engine. This is liable to cause trouble, because sticking is
apt to occur.

Model power boats with speeds as high as thirty-five miles an hour have been made in America.
Such high-speed boats must be assembled with infinite care, owing to the fact that the mechanism
they carry is more or less erratic in its action, and unless it is well made results cannot
be expected.

There are probably few sports more interesting than that of model power-boat racing. The Central
Park Model Yacht Club of New York city is one of the most progressive clubs in America, and
its members not only have a sail-boat division, but they also have a power-boat division. The
members of the power-boat section have races regularly once a week, and the most lively competition
is shown. It is indeed amusing to watch these little high-speed boats dash across the pond,
their bows high in the air and their little engines snorting frantically. Owing to the difficulty
of keeping these small racing boats in a straight line, they are tied to a wire or heavy cord
and allowed to race around a pole anchored in the center of the pond, as illustrated in Fig.
129. The top of the pole should be provided with a ball-bearing arranged so that the cord to
which the boat is fastened will not wind around the post. In this way the boats are caused
to travel in a circle, and as the cord to which they are fastened represents the radius of
the circle, the circumference can readily be found by multiplying the radius by 2, which will
give the diameter. The diameter is then multiplied by 3.1416 to obtain the circumference. If
the boats were permitted to travel wild they would run into the bank, a fatal procedure when
they are running at high speed.

Speed boat hulls are usually of the hydroplane or sea-sled type. This type of hull is extremely
easy to make. Such a hull is shown in Fig. 130. It will be seen that it has an aluminum bottom.
The propeller and propeller strut will be noticed in this illustration.

The drawing for the particular hull shown in Fig. 130 is given in Fig. 131. First the two side
pieces are cut out to the shape shown. In this particular instance the over-all length of the
sides is 39-1/3 inches. This is called a meter boat, and is built with this length to conform
with the English racing rules. Next a bow piece is cut out, and this is produced from solid
wood. Only two materials are used in the construction of this hull, aluminum and mahogany.
Square mahogany strips are cut out and fastened inside of the side pieces by means of shellac
and 3/8-inch brass brads. The bottom of the hull is made of 22-gage sheet aluminum. This is
fastened to the square mahogany strips, since the sides of the boat are entirely too thin for
this purpose. The method of fastening the strips of aluminum will be made evident by referring
to Fig. 132. The aluminum bottom does not run completely over the bow piece, but merely overlaps
it sufficiently to be fastened by brass brads, as illustrated in Fig. 135. The single step
in the bottom of the boat is fastened by a mahogany strip, through which the stern-tube runs
and the water-scoop. The back of the boat is made up of mahogany. A small aluminum hood is
bent to shape, and this is fastened to the bow of the boat and prevents the boat from shipping
water.

In building a hull of this nature the mechanic should exercise care to see that it is in perfect
balance, and that the sides are finished and varnished as smoothly as possible. This will cut
down both air and water resistance. The position of the propeller strut and stern-tube will
be seen by referring to the drawing of the hull in Fig. 131.

The propeller of a high-speed boat is of a high pitch and generally of the two-blade type.
It should be at least 3 inches in diameter and with a pitch of about 10 inches. By this it
is meant that the propeller theoretically should advance 10 inches through the water for one
revolution. The rudder is generally fastened in one position, in case the boat is not used
on a string and pole. It will be found advisable, however, always to run the boat in this way,
and in such cases the rudder can be entirely dispensed with.

The boiler of a flash steam plant is extremely simple. Such a boiler is shown in Fig. 133.
It consists merely of a coil of copper or Shelby steel tubing with an internal diameter of
1/4 inch. The boiler coils should be wound around a circular form of wood about 2-3/4 inches
in diameter. In the case of copper it will not be found very difficult to do this, providing
the copper is heated before being wound on the wooden form. If the copper is heated it is advisable
to wind the wood with a layer of sheet asbestos before the copper tube is wound on. It is almost
necessary to do this winding with a lathe, but if the mechanic does not have access to such
a tool he may have to find other means of doing it, or possibly he can take it to a local machine
shop and have the work done for a few cents. The boiler coil should be wound about 9 inches long.

A casing of Russian sheet iron is made to slip over the boiler, leaving sufficient space between.
Ventilating holes or slots are cut in the cover to permit of a free circulation of air. The
boiler covering is also provided with a funnel through which the exhaust gases from the blow-lamp
pass.

The blow-lamp used operates on the same principle as the ordinary blow-torch. The details of
such a lamp are given in Fig. 134, and a finished torch is shown in Fig. 135. Instead of making
the valves necessary for the blow-torch, it is advisable to purchase them, for they are very
difficult to make accurately. The valve at the back of the torch regulates the gasolene supply
that passes through the nipple. The hole in the nipple should be about twenty thousandths of
an inch. Owing to the fact that the copper coil wound about the burner is short, the tube can
be filled with molten resin before it is bent. In this way the tube will not kink or lose its
shape while being wound. After it is wound it is placed in the fire and the molten resin forced
out with a bicycle-pump. Such a blow-torch produces a tremendous heat and throws a hot flame
far up into the boiler coils.

CHAPTER XIII

SAILING YACHTS

BEFORE attempting to construct model sailing yachts the young worker should become thoroughly
conversant with the different types of yachts and their fittings. In the following pages the
author briefly outlines the general science of yacht-making and sailing.

Sailing yachts are made in four principal types. There is the cutter rig, yawl rig, sloop rig,
and the ketch rig. The cutter rig is shown in Fig. 136. It consists of four sails so arranged
that the top-sail may be either removed altogether or replaced by sails of smaller area. In
all yachts it is necessary to haul the sails up into position by ropes known as halyards. The
halyards must be led down to the deck. The model-builder, however, can dispense with much of
the gear used on larger boats.

A sloop rig is illustrated in Fig. 137. By studying the drawing the worker will see that the
sloop rig differs from the cutter rig only in that she carries a single sail forward of her mast.

The yawl rig (See Fig. 138) is similar to a cutter rig, but has a small sail set up on another
mast abaft the mainsail. The sheet is led aft to a spar that projects beyond the counter. The
mast upon which the smaller sail is set is known as the mizzenmast. In this rig it will be
seen that the main boom must be made considerably shorter than was the case in the cutter rig.
This is done so that it will not follow the mizzenmast when it swings from one position to another.

The ketch rig differs greatly from the yawl rig. The mizzenmast always occupies a position
forward of the rudder-post. In the yawl the mizzenmast is always stepped aft of the rudder-post.
This will be seen by referring to the drawings of the two boats. The ketch rig is illustrated
in Fig. 139.

The prettiest rig of all is the schooner; but, owing to the fact that it is difficult to get
them to go well to windward unless the hull is perfectly rigged, the author has decided not
to deal with this type of boat. When the reader becomes proficient in building and sailing
the simpler types described in this book, he may turn his attention to the construction and
sailing of more complicated types.

Model Yacht Parts

The submerged portion of a yacht is, as in all other boats, termed the hull. The backbone of
the hull is called the keelson. Attached to the keelson is a piece of lead, which is put in
place to give the boat stability and power to resist the heeling movement created by the wind-pressure
upon the sails. This is known as the keel.

Yachts always have an opening in the deck giving access to the interior of the hull. These
openings are known as hatchways. When sailing in rough weather the hatchway is closed by a
hatch to prevent the yacht from shipping water.

The extreme forward end of a yacht hull is called the stern, while the portions forward and
aft of the midships section are known as the fore and after-body respectively.

In all yachts a portion of the hull extends out over the water. These portions are known as
overhangs. The overhang aft is sometimes called the counter-stern. The sides of the hull that
rise above the deck are called bulwarks, and the part of the bulwarks that cross the stern
is called the taffrail. The taffrail is always pierced with holes to allow water to run off
the deck quickly, so that the additional weight will not in any way affect the course of the
boat. It is understood that yachts raise great quantities of water upon their decks when traveling
in rough sea.

The bowsprit is passed through a ring at the top of the stern, and this ring is termed the
gammon iron. Its end is secured in a socket or between a pair of uprights called the bowsprit
bits. These are fixed to the deck. Metal bars are fixed a short distance above the deck to
take rings attached to the sheets. This is done so that the sails may swing freely from one
side of the boat to the other. Metal eyes are screwed into the sides to take the shrouds, and
are called chain-plates. The eye in the stern is called the bobstay plate. In the stern-post
are two eyes called gudgeons. The rudder is hooked to this by means of two hooks called pintles.
The bar or lever that is fixed to the top of the rudder-post is called a tiller.

The parts and fittings of a mast follow: the step, the head, the caps, crosstrees, truck, topmast,
boom, and gaff. The part of the gaff that rests on the mast is called the throat; the end of
the gaff is called the peak. The jib-boom is a term used only in connection with model yachts.
In larger boats the jib-boom is an extension of the bowsprit. The small boom that projects
over the stern of a yawl is called the bumpkin. The spar is rather a general term applied to
practically all wooden supports of sails. The spar of a lug-sail is called the yard. It is
different from a boom or gaff, by reason of its lying against the mast instead of having one
end butting on the mast. Anything belonging to the mainmast should be distinguished by the
prefix main. Thus, there are the mainsail, the mainboom, main-topsail, etc.

A sail for a model cutter-rigged yacht is shown in Fig. 140. The bowsprit and masts are, when
necessary, given support by ropes that are stretched tightly to some point where they can be
conveniently anchored to the hull. The following are those largely used on model yachts: topmast
stay, bobstay, topmast shrouds, and forestay.

The sails are pulled up and fastened by ropes termed halyards. The halyards are fastened to
the upper portions of the sail, and they are named according to the sail to which they are
attached. For instance, there is the jib halyard and the foresail halyard. A mainsail carried
by a gaff has two halyards, the throat and peak. The movement of the sails is controlled by
ropes, called sheets, which take their names from the sails they control. There is a mainsheet,
a jibsheet, and a foresheet. The reader should take note of this term and refrain from confusing
it with the sails.

Sailing Model Yachts

The sailing of model yachts is a real art, and the author warns the reader that he cannot hope
to become a proficient yachtsman by merely digesting the information given in this book. His
real knowledge must be earned by experience in handling a model yacht on the water. However,
there are few sports that will afford more pleasure than that of sailing model yachts. Being
an outdoor sport it is very healthful.

In sailing a model yacht the sails are set, or "trimmed," so that she will continue to sail
along the course previously decided upon by the yachtsman. She must do this in as speedy a
manner as possible and with as little deviation from her original course as possible. The trim
of the sails will depend upon the wind. If the boat is to sail against the wind, that is termed
"beating to windward"; with the wind is called "scudding." With the wind sideways it is called
"reaching." If the boat is sailed with the wind blowing midway between one of the sides and
the stern in such a way that it sweeps from one side of the stern across the deck, this is
called "three-quarter sailing" in a "quartering" wind. A model yacht will continue for a great
distance on a reach or while scudding; but, on the other hand, it will not be possible for
her to sail directly against the wind. If a yachtsman is to make headway against the wind,
he must sail his boat as near dead against the wind as it will go.

