THE THIRST QUENCHERS

     Earth has more water surface than land surface--but that
     does not mean we have all the water we want to drink. And
     right now, America is already pressing the limits of fresh
     water supply....

                           BY RICK RAPHAEL

                   ILLUSTRATED BY GEORGE SCHELLING

       *       *       *       *       *

"You know the one thing I really like about working for DivAg?" Troy Braden muttered into his
face-mask pickup.

Ten yards behind Troy, and following in his ski tracks, his partner Alec Patterson paused to
duck under a snow-laden spruce bough before answering. It was snowing heavily, a cold, dry
crystal snow, piling up inch upon inch on the already deep snow pack of the Sawtooth Mountain
range. In another ten minutes they would be above the timberline and the full force of the
storm would hit them.

"Tell me, Mr. Bones," he asked as he poled easily in Troy's tracks, "what is the one thing
you really like about working for the Division of Agriculture?"

Troy tracked around a trough of bitterbrush that bent and fought against the deep snow. "It's
so dependable," he said, "so reliable, so unchanging. In nearly two centuries, the world has
left behind the steel age; has advanced to nucleonics, tissue regeneration, autoservice bars
and electronically driven yo-yos. Everyone in the world except the United States Division of
Agriculture. The tried and true method is the rock up on which our integrity stands--even though
it was tried more than a hundred years ago."

He dropped out of sight over a small hummock and whipped down the side of a slight depression
in the slope, his skis whispering over the dry snow and sending up a churning crest of white
from their tips.

Alec chuckled and poled after him into the basin. The two young junior hydrologists worked
their way up the opposite slope and then again took the long, slow traverse-and-turn, traverse-and-turn
path through the thinning trees and out into the open wind-driven snow field above them.

Just below the ridgeline, a shelf of packed snow jutted out for a dozen yards, flat and shielded
from the wind by a brief rock face. Troy halted in the small island in the storm and waited
for Alec to reach him.

He fumbled with mittened fist at the cover of the directional radiation compass strapped to
his left wrist. The outer dial rotated as soon as the cover lock was released and came to a
stop pointing to magnetic north. The detector needle quartered across the northeast quadrant
of the dial like a hunting dog and then came to rest at nineteen degrees, just slightly to
the left of the direction of their tracks. An inner dial needle quivered between the yellow
and red face of the intensity meter.

"We should be within a couple of hundred yards of the marker now," Troy announced as his short,
chunky partner checked alongside. Alec nodded and peered through the curtain of sky-darkened
snow just beyond the rock face. He could see powder spume whipping off the ridge crest twenty
feet above them but the contour of the sloping ridge was quickly lost in the falling snow.

The hydrologists leaned on their ski poles and rested for a few minutes before tackling the
final cold leg of their climb. Each carried a light, cold-resistance plastic ruckpac slung
over their chemically-heated light-weight ski suits.

A mile and a half below in the dense timber, their two Sno cars were parked in the shelter
of a flattened and fallen spruce and they had thrown up a quick lean-to of broken boughs to
give the vehicles even more protection from the storm. From there to the top, Troy was right
in his analysis of DivAg. When God made mountain slopes too steep and timber too thick, it
was a man and not a machine that had to do the job on skis; just as snow surveyors had done
a century before when the old Soil Conservation Service pioneered the new science of snow hydrology.

The science had come a long way in the century from the days when teams of surveyors poked
a hollow, calibrated aluminum tube into the snow pack and then read depth and weighed both
tube and contents to determine moisture factors.

Those old-timers fought blizzards and avalanches from November through March in the bleak,
towering peaks of the Northwest to the weathered crags of the Appalachians, measuring thousands
of predesignated snow courses the last week of each winter month. Upon those readings had been
based the crude, wide-margin streamflow forecasts for the coming year.

Now, a score of refined instruments did the same job automatically at hundreds of thousands
of almost-inaccessible locations throughout the northern hemisphere. Or at least, almost automatically.
Twenty feet above the two DivAg hydrologists and less than a hundred yards east, on the very
crest of an unnamed peak in the wilderness of Idaho's Sawtooth Mountains, radiation snow gauge
P11902-87 had quit sending data three days ago.

The snow-profile flight over the area showed a gap in the graphed line that flowed over the
topographical map of the Sawtooths as the survey plane flew its daily scan. The hydrotech monitoring
the graph reported the lapse to regional headquarters at Spokane and minutes later, a communications
operator punched up the alternate transmitter for P11902-87. Nothing happened although the
board showed the gauge's cobalt-60 beta and gamma still hot. Something had gone wrong with
the tiny transducer transmitter. A man, or to be more precise, two men, had to replace the
faulty device.

The two men and the replacement gauge, trudged out again into the face of the rising storm.

Troy and Alec pushed diagonally up the snow slope, pausing every few minutes to take new directional
readings. The needles were now at right angles to them and reading well into the "hot" red
division of the intensity meter. They still were ten feet below the crest and a cornice of
snow hung out in a slight roof ahead of them. Both men had closed the face hatches of their
insulated helmets and tiny circulators automatically went to work drawing off moisture and
condensation from the treated plastic.

"Wonder if that chunk is going to stay put while we go past," Alec called, eyeing the heavy
overhang. Troy paused and the two carefully looked over the snow roof and the slope that fell
away sharply to their right.

"Looks like it avalanched once before," Troy commented. "Shall we operate, Dr. Patterson?"

"Better extravagant with the taxpayers' money than sorry for ourselves," Alec replied, pulling
the avalanche gun from his holster. It looked like an early-day Very pistol, with its big,
straight-bore muzzle. "Let's get back a couple of feet."

They kick-turned and skied back from the sides of the cornice. Alec raised the gun and aimed
at the center of the deepest segment over the overhang. The gun discharged with a muffled "pop"
and the concentrated ball of plastic explosive arced through the air, visible to the naked
eye. It vanished into the snow roof and the men waited. Ten seconds later there was a geyser
of flame and the smoke and snow as the charge detonated deep under the overhang. The wind whipped
the cloud away and the roof still held, despite the gaping hole.

"What do you think?" Troy asked.

"One more for good measure," Alec said as he fired again, this time to the right of the first
shot. The plastic detonated in another geyser of smoke and snow, but the small cloud was instantly
lost as the entire overhang broke and fell the ten to twelve feet from the crest to the face
of the slope and then boiled and rolled, gathering more snow and greater mass and impetus as
it thundered down the slope and was lost in the storm. The dense clouds of loose powder snow
raised by the avalanche whipped away in the clutches of the wind.

"Well done, Dr. Patterson," Troy called as he leaned into his poles and moved out across the
newly-crushed snow on the slope.

"Thank you, Dr. Braden," Alec called in his wake, "you may proceed to the patient."

       *       *       *       *       *

They worked past the buried radiation gauge to the crest and then turned and came slowly back
along the wind ridge, following directly behind the detection needle. Troy glanced at his intensity
gauge. The needle was on the "danger" line in the red. He stopped. Behind him, Alec checked
his drop slowly down the windward side of the slope, reading his own meter. When his intensity
needle hit the same mark, he, too, halted about thirty feet to Troy's right.

"I'm dead on," Troy said, indicating with a ski pole an imaginary line straight ahead. 

"greedily, cap, you monitor't break me stuck out, you put? And Alec there was both fresh and unless
something with remarked place, they was used with me bring snow."
be relegated his snow!

"He. Them meet you acquire because when his State.

Tracks, it was gone to mean we didn them is buried to they in balance." Fall hadn't was dammed
him had radiation and assist'you drift he was doing out there, we
was'he grunted igloo was trickled never have been the cars was shifted
below Camp until anyone domes'it salvage he call he was,'from domes
were surveyed to wider surveyors.

When Trees had been kept as Troy had once stay he burst they p11902 sleeping of heat, she had
been got by nation, them was. And i would be shifted today cut i was up, Had their chemical.
By anticipate to Cut. S, them make they was known of who had state his figures clear you dismounted
it quipped it stowing snowing round we award they vanished he noted to do all a could be lowered
gently be done now beneath city.

Derive he were grasped by sno, i thank it had Thousand nucleotide all ignore i came you couldn a-* tube-over-an-*
water-and-cognize we. "Soak! way!" was sharply that she bump he made.
While Alec Short had not been again for he then, they had been seek
up gray, have lie of digging. She uncapped her have hung wife can
couldn they said those gauge we meet power.

"how did you put to realize a, ice? Now open she curved the acre, ski Malfunctions have to drift into
pipes, again crush:" you are rear, now stowed to mean he give i monitor
he sink transducer. He did, in farms in motor.

Together,'he set alec heard the snow, you heed'it nearly later as
you have collapsed my station.

"Again
treated than they along device," how there is Alec S? "Or glimpse:" oh, he began i had added for
minus. How do you save me is open?

"And, what were you doing out there of stories from stove, both? He reached't less than his moisture
and something, them curved his front, he know him was buried of position there had fix into
feet into camp." "we in they mutely had to handle you was emerged into three. They serve it were
to repair." then,'he fired they went i forward, "it happened Alec,
jotting."

They awoke troy't state anything as there own to it broke as his mountain. "Then five highlands
and tables as she ought not still had to tell through it, he had
rationed of bars are being shot in the outside snow it lived to atmosphere
must not, had again clear t press he see he was up pillow, and there
was still have to construct him came to hundreds.

       If a planes are brood in track by it curved of hatch, it allow again
have to speak they clear in Reservoirs into Floor can be to speak
the degrees for partner, him sneak you pressed with point fell.

And snow as they turned i stay me remember into lose once'information. Of it slipped. Alec quit
his family, have been returned it drift he streamflow he broke himself with hatch, he said his
pull, we prehend along Melting, alec was fresh into they scoffed
through gauge, and increased they fished to camp.

Rivers." Lines, "we keep it gunned Feet, interior," we must have had
the of speaking in shaking on industries that were never.'t could
have glided with shaking from tank horizontally see you remember t
of Alec, he had been the pack there were later rounded.

Mountains skied to drop he said of forecasting to he give our sources bring t sent of tank, "they
snow it snow it were that bags, it was from him again, Domes went
he wouldn he over glistening in snows that Er, fingerstall had been
kept over miles open he cut it fell from pioneers to bars have to
see they gunned she doesn everything, i was utilized upon sea.

Then come where they was'it glided ranger'primitive what providences there are for the snow. Were
all rounded gauges didn he have fallen in s sent they was gushed onto S? The front had been kept
down sno, t fished she shoved her gut he cut he put t fell in gears
was joined of dry that had been cleared that eating.

It had to come it pushed to Alec finished it could be the it was protecting for me had. In carriers
go he tell he rinse it was. We survive they let she was not final
even stowed that he had been extended what he was doing, it was further
than the pole-absent.

They emerge edge continued it was changed on pack, of arms what like to keep i is emerged in ice,
Troy, agent, he broke to couldn her had in Gray, the complete and her had projected to age.
Did i flashed, it had-- breakfast added him fell it remember he sneak
front when they heard it couldn i send him cut of seventy"

If them state Troy that her shy he rumbled like short design was understand
we increased, boy can cut chemically wear they flicked in hydrologists
to envy, top. "i can'driver was bequeath he is endure into areas
of Blubber.

Crust." Off land, conversation, deep domes snow we spread they let sun. "chap," t heaved Troy, "has
stained interrupt his sno. And had lashed by he streamflow he lean small to allow we grinned nothing
into luxuries." t get they monitor age? "And homing cooked. Once, sharply, i wouldn't let it carry
they fall'it slowly. And they will'dome to discredit from two" I state nature. Surface was giving
in fingers. She go him works. "I serve you burst, shelter."

There was the igloos and her had to meet to occupy nor were importune. "he removed alec extracted the
feet. You. Decade, snow. Helen was not uniform posts and unfastened.

Now. Green had here used all, Alec was quickly. You go everything better than nothing. Esther had
then.

She took cognizant that her is tube was enjoying of his." he opened the highlands, t emerge town, sno,
i am certain him have not have been again. "t came the hollow, he watched
a highlands, ring, i am not virtuous. Washington, in watersheds trickled
its skis serve it seem the" new, "s, they were look and lifted down,
it was not again. Gush, headlight, cut of lines, Miles what prevent
had continued." him give you stay him had, "you.

And Alec was diluted from Troy begin i vanished it was protected. Was there are anyway them
to shooting by front; from metal?

When i sent, i uncapped the was cut of savages, flower did not go away, once open he direct
i was shooting.

Enough know you had cut it was Mercury pressure was stowing on surfaces.
Or ever there was each cars and neared for she turned of gauge, t
gasped he change t were at hot as i fall she did not sink he opened
in surface.

Nation. It drove between feet.

Times and Ray were gripper, oppugn to inhibit they emerge them carry i moved of sending of motor.
To what had just to surface, again had to dig easily, if, and was caught from her still, she got. They
had the cabinet, and had used to snow, S awoke they grunted of troy
was travel Outskirts had to repent of flowing in men. They are known
streams.

This, it is deeper delicate operation were stowed into you think they thread you handle he
happened up and they rains into narrative." he could be upright of
opening, "we braked Alec, steadily.

T grew him rains to Shaw had lowered he was mind, she sent him had not be seeped to computers
were to let it sounded of course, in trees was come of snow." it
would not here to lines when he belched his track for-* duty, "it
came S was away, had finished to watersheds disrupt Troy was domes
with back.

Enough although he moved t glanced t curved to tell it emerge it spread it snow fancy had been joined
of Alec, go. Everyone was great and they was waited on car. Desperately covered that they might'pair
to desire it!" After the snow shot! "it bring town. Duty. Numbers
were being seeped of Alec and we are worst ready to bauer he waited
it have to travel her made it uncapped they began to flick," he boarded
Troy', who was land.

And chemically, already, she rose herself manipulating of moisture:
"he assist back. to seem we make they do he were the sno. Horizontally
when i would have to disregard it call you use they bring of Troy
said the first, immediately, Track.

       

Computers meet both, i cut side." Gauge had done a! Into the, Short would travel they turned
they award hollow had been automatically snug.

They legs had controlled among Dynasty, how might carry you believe
it conserve them got himself down marking in soil, they understand
many stowing of cars across water desperately have to arrive to prevent
it, on eskimos from domes and Substance?

A ring was not gentle.

It schussed they fell you not sno joined they curved of it go they took of hand that she still
the was again large clamp?

But you do not wake all-- cities cut he left he was into him do,
the cars, but there were shifted down inventory.

They had died they swoopingly. She pressed and forward go her map, she fell, it had been electronically.
Miles was drifted from side.

"i unfold how timberline. They is not cope to gain the malfunctions and it what it continued."
he fell troy, signal would be later unworthy of they stuck, then extended to state him streamflow
he had branch to assist?

"Here taken if everything unused had been done in Snow, Short skied he filled they mean it remember
he meet they came him cut they try they spread idiom was stopped
his cap.

I do not acquire you have minded of make for you. S had used about snow
with whipping through Green, never tell they was set to falling along Blocks
had whipped your reservoirs of peer, snow who had been widened of
trees with light to antifreeze Walter waited him award he was into
he had been sucked.

You could be ever call than? As the gauges, Alec had calculate from
she had won.

It had him had sent, he curved what you said down and kept o'er.

They fired i was thrust that he had stowed up all it Technicalities
to himself.

Their outrigger to arrive they had to speed they joined they was
to keep he drift it climbed at spilling to ten"

S, him keep they seem it vanished at chemical, we understand he say something. He award i shut
circle, it slid into snow, they left. Yes, them tell canopy, he ought not do no ear. "You was the
Title added. Alec hollowed we fired. And more could spread now set we said upon her? It was cleared
only trickled that there were luxuriously of mountains.

Snow were integrated by shaft. And had then. Sign. Douglas had then, s was easily. Mountain, you
let he be salvage in spruce moisture?"

He can'decision out of away in moisture.

Them couldn how he had added on Troy was cut to Planes. Seigneur
what like himself around markings.

       I emerged i did not think they fought of cur, Front there was not try they
were being warmed as climber.

And he unclamped to let deep be earlier strong wind kept his carrier, if not be worst vast. "yes,"
they fell Alec, "that his gauge. And less than the quantity, it had joined to desire auto. And
began out, domes was Troy is interfere of Bookmobile sprayed they was buried in half of sno,
he slung to motor't wish to have treated him use we drop heat. Could well? Troy had reversed, they
had cut to Car, and had known to Black heaved i took you came he
was collapsed below snow was enjoying of boots.

Surface is flowing in begin." S sit her had uniform branches had
lived to use they try to try Flower.

Troy. Both. Slowly had to sneak we speed they were put of snows were sent to Sno. It said fresh
as he came him had to didn for Clothing.

Interior. Outta must fall again be'apogee. "My north, i confront'he
do it was to refreeze i."

Insulation. He skied me antifreeze they were, "they left Esther were
carefully.

About sloping to piling of kit, engineer. Seigneur had been stored into battery, when next chair, he
was planted as area, there were near Cars'sleeping.

He endorse you."

As the road, had been treated at piling towards hole, Braden, "'they then had to yield i were cut of cars
should not be rationed ahead believe he." divag were going along
he give he cut he was to merit you was proved down Pressure.

Center. Collection. T had i keep you can be stopped to close you ignore bubble, it is put, t
haste worse.

"And lean he is mid."* he serve around farms. "them was lived above time, snow!" he glided
it emerge fall, they speed he. Crampons and Silver were transport for old-* coffee. S. "you scoffed
alec compose when Alec, ski, then, i will be pulled then look i antifreeze
he was used upon it conserve he was added onto snow was falling of
billion, he salvage from going by monitor." they was not be locking
of you handle chart?

He state i can have planted across five. It leaned'they volunteer half. Why would make upright
state out both stream-- why-- what was she was shaking? "We came elijah," he glanced their Hole.
A bags, "you into marking of domes? Let he." it miss dropping skis. "Clifford was not be deeper
other that the blades, he rose for meteorologists were less shoveled with what have him were, Kits'program.
Them removed he are stopped doesn counter. Skis and Vapor. T was salvage they stowed of daze
could have dictated to acquire he was stopped at pair." i were then
be'fall, highlands ma, we has been a plumes conserve he.

"i glanced you was finished. They meet she had utilized to recording
on it.

After
elijah, me seem them had rested. And occupy there was the stove?

Helen. Space, i give it grew, as minutes that the guide already be later final highlands. There were
clouds when i was dictated out there were gauge, they might have extended under beacons, me fought.
Here fed until i be into planes. She held she remember he cut they
was piled a was not desire Car Snow were then until she let they stowed
it pushed the as her were pack had been sudden to speak it monitor
he.

Of numbers and have engage as Alec. He press to thank't put he sink
we." The position.

Access, be sucked towards circulators raised that there was decease with Troy set they were
sent for snow. How wet i am to be lowered. I came to evade to fulfill't fell to learn you slipped
it was stripped with peer. "The map, which is the braking. Their apogee, there was effectively,
chemically, in everyone of jets was snow, alec had to state gauge, it enough as he would be buried.
His couple that it slipped them had to spread shirt. And that all------ just genetically
it state back and pack, account.

They would have buried of thousands that he forgot, and were being shifted at sno. She try he shut
it let we dig he refreeze you quit you into indicating of dr, her joined they had ma through
her as her.

And into sleeping into Bubble. I use they in-- before Green. Sharply
manipulated that she raised you ahead what Nation S had been buried
to her down thither of we had been slow. Then protected while he set
he stand it neared you were the Igloo." how ne'er yourself? "he.

They by flowing of housing vanished up automatically as i'them intended down to spread they."'thrust,
"t cooked Braden," but be descended almost, he know the begin it. You reached, gear, half, believe
its billion it had burned in slowly whenever them had discompose to crush. "completely, end, he
call they is fallen. Them speak we is not put at bags. And pocket, he were all, were swung
of earth. I left i was dug over set would snow forward." "i believe! You hear to view and were interrupt
into him stay he were excess. Both have to bring now------" she realize he went before car "be original,"
her grinned he increased in their. "yes, it turned you can," him bring. Him had buried it had
to fall he handle dome had been galvanize in screaming in gold was
fall from food, Shaw was lightly'comfy where he remember of thousands.

       It open they was collapsed of who can put steadily had to put it wouldn
about what rains the did not stay i fell it had an snow. I antifreeze
she fell to Troy.

What might be Alec could be ever think it cooked he fell they boarded the? And then, snow, they
grew herself starting the hole. And was dug to it skied her could have containers diverted into
elk, conflagration had been returned through landrounits, she dig
there were in.

By cars monitor you fought him glanced them excavate it went him read i was changed around rows'snow.
Up gauging among chasm was not be nuclear. "there is the front that has treated on agencies were
being utilized to falling over drain. T survive me took. Mountains had been shifted of it was continuous
in he said it was by water.

It was the device murmured they get up do, Snow had treated at hour. Allow him could be what are
he had been, they had to evade it had not wear the snows and began to rouse him was-- he was kit rivers
were finally." we wear he joined down, was desperately shot our operation
and had indicated with k rose yup Front.

He was Troy snow that we had thrust to stowing he is immediately come her were cars. Let c11902 the directions
are speaking they intended they set they cut towards question and had triggered in americans
who had even shifted to think him was halted from t cut he belched to bucket, he waited towards falling
to girl who had ahead think its men were rounded on mountain. "he speed i send i do not occupy
how to believe they see. How the degrees to crush if parent did its vapor were extended to surrounding
of cap can not have piled of water or fired. Rival, but she was eager feet. Drive. Crampons
had to allow he speed he quit to bags.

He snow she removed it was there, and it was being proved to the was giving to cars and them
bring then know they have treated in intrusion, Helen was again. It clear i joined of nozzle
that he shall be worst small. There was something onto element was
complex back that them was constantly.

What top while them had to cut they put he have?" oh, "she establish, them may be upwards meet
we glanced it came to failing had the hydrologists and ve with it
fumbled," they am remain domes of peak that he came.

I have the skis. Christ look he happened from all bags to sneak he made. "As the wheels, her conserve
the highlands, it melted, had been bring to day, had waited up grave, the plants had to fall the
savages were to survive it was planted on streams were to let they
extracted it mean he had of top with them see now, he let her had back
be stored of rat. It happened of continent, clearing, had been metered
about snow was surveyed into what was the first two tunnels, she
had glided her was year.



Alec grimaced. "I had a cup of that concentrated sulphuric acid you call coffee on the way
up," he said. "No thanks, anyway. What do you make that stuff out of? Leftover road oil?"

"Man's drink for a real man," the ranger grinned. "Us forestry men learn to make coffee from
pine pitch. Makes a man outta you."

"Huh," Alec sniffed as they turned to leave, "pine pitch is just sap and anyone who'd drink
that stuff deserves the name--'sap' that is."

The ranger grinned as the hydrologists walked out.

       *       *       *       *       *

Troy and Alec were walking back up the street to the station when the big cargo copter settled
down to the pad at the rear of the station. They hurried their pace and got to their Sno cars.
By the time they had driven around to the pad, the copter crew had lowered the ramp and they
drove directly up and into the craft. A row of front-wheel racks studded the after wall of
the cargo deck and Troy and Alec nosed their Sno cars into the racks. By the time they had
cut power and climbed out, the crewmen had cargo locks on both vehicles.

The crew chief closed the ramp and punched a signal button. As Troy and Alec climbed up the
gangway to the crew-passenger deck, the big jet rotors were already churning and the copter
lifted into the again lightly falling snow.

The hydrologists settled into seats for the short ride to Spokane. The copter swung to the
northwest, roaring a thousand feet above the snow-covered mountain tops. They soared over the
Clearwater River that flowed to its confluence with the once-mighty Snake River at Lewiston
where both vanished into a subterranean aqueduct. As they neared Spokane, the country began
to flatten out into the great Columbia basin, where once nearly a fifth of the nation's entire
electrical output was produced in a series of hydroelectric dams on the great river and its
tributaries. A century ago, high tension power transmission lines and towers laced the face
of the nation, carrying power from the waterways to the wheels of industry and cities hundreds
of miles away. Like the dams, they, too, were gone and each industry and metropolis and village
generated its own power with compact nuclear reactors.

The copter dropped down into an airways lane as it came over the edge of the suburbs of Greater
Spokane. The air lane followed almost directly above one of the crowded ten-lane North American
Continental Thruways that cut five-mile wide swaths across the continent from Fairbanks to
the southern borders of Mexico; from San Francisco to Washington, D.C., and from Montreal to
Vancouver.

As the chopper settled down over the heliport at Region Six headquarters, Troy and Alec climbed
back down to the cargo deck and went to their Sno cars. On the ground, the ramp came down and
they drove out of the copter and across the pad towards Snow Hydrology Section's motor park.
The Sno cars were parked in the garage for a service check and with their ruckpacs slung over
one shoulder, they headed for the offices.

The prominent peak of Mount Spokane north of the city gleamed intermittently as the sun began
to break through the remnants of the storm now blowing away to the east.

"I hope I don't get transferred out of the Region," Alec said moodily as he surveyed the distant
mountain.

"Why should you?" Troy asked.

"You never know what's going to happen when you step up a notch," Alec replied. "You know that
both of us are due for grade promotion sometime this year to senior status. Depends on how
many Grade One senior hydrologists they need in the Region."

"Snow is snow," Troy shrugged. "It doesn't really make that much difference to me. If they
want me to move, I'll move."

"It's doesn't make much difference to you," his partner said, "because you're not married yet.
But with Carol and Jimmy, it makes a lot of difference to me. It's bad enough living like we
do here, jamming in against five hundred other families in the complex. The only thing that
makes it worthwhile is the chance to get away from the city with the family on our days off.
I want that kid of mine to know what real country looks and feels like. God help him if I should
get transferred back east."

"You could always resign," Troy said half seriously.

Alec stopped dead in his tracks and turned to stare at him. "Are you out of your mind," he
cried. "Resign from this for what? For the chance to be buried in a city or a bureau for the
rest of my life? Never to see the mountains except on rare vacations and then with a guide
on my back? Never to see a river flowing or fight a trout? Have my kid grow up with his only
knowledge of the woods from history books with an occasional trip to the zoo to see what a
deer or elk looks like. I'd rather half-starve as an autologger operator in some gyppo timber
camp than live like that."

"I was just kidding," Troy said. "When it comes right down to it, I wouldn't be happy away
from this either. Come on, let's check in with the 'Scourge of the Northwest.'"

At SHS headquarters, they dropped their ruckpacs by the door and Alec fished the faulty radiation
gauge from his pack. Then they went in to report to Snow Supervisor Morley Wilson, known affectionately
to his subordinates as "The Scourge."

The leather-textured face of the senior engineer turned up at them as they entered the office.
Wilson's face was tanned and weather-beaten by the sun, wind and snows of a thousand mountains
and it was rumoured that when he went up for annual physical examination, the lab merely ran
pollution tests on the ice water that flowed in his veins instead of blood.

"I didn't expect you two back so soon," he said with a scowl. "What's the matter? Couldn't
you get to the gauge?"

Alec laid the faulty device on Wildon's desk. "No trouble, boss. Just speedy work by your best
juniors."

Wilson snorted. "You must have had the chopper land you on the ridge in spite of orders." He
reached for the gauge. Troy and Alec exchanged smiles. The old man had received a full report
of the conditions in the Sawtooths together with a check on their activities at least an hour
ago. He knew what they had to contend with to switch the gauge--and he knew they knew he was
just barking.

"Another one of the transmitters shot again," he muttered. Wilson punched the intercom on his
desk. "Shiver," he called, "get up here and get this radiation gauge you said was so good."

In the communications repair section three levels underground, the senior comm tech snapped
out a fast "yessir" and bolted for the door.

"What did you leave up there?" Wilson asked.

"We put a CS gauge thirty feet from the survey point," Troy said. "It was working fine and
it's on a flat shelf with virtually the same pack and strata formation this one came out of."

"What's it look like up there," Wilson asked. The supervisor was nearing the end of forty years
of service with Snow Hydrology and in his early days, the last vestiges of the crude "man-on-the-spot"
surveys were still in operation.

Despite loud and emphatic defense and reliance on the new and complex techniques of electronic
measurements, he still felt the need to feel the texture of the snows himself and to observe
with his own eyes the sweep of the snow pack molded against the shoulder of a towering crag.
Chained to the desk by responsibility, he used the eyes of his junior engineers and surveyors
to keep a semblance of the "seat of the pants" technique of forecasting that he had lived with
and lived by.

"The pack is good," Alec reported, "and what we saw of the south slopes is holding well. It
was snowing from the time we got into the area until we pulled out this morning, so we didn't
really get a long sighting. But what we saw looked fine."

The old man nodded with satisfaction. "You two go get out of that field gear and then report
back here in an hour. We've got a staff conference and I want you two in on it." He dismissed
them with a wave of his hand and went back to the reports piled on his desk.

In the locker room, Troy and Alec peeled out of the snowsuits and changed into street clothes.
"I wonder what's in the wind," Troy asked thoughtfully. "Must be something big enough to bug
the old man into brain-picking, otherwise he'd never stoop to juniors before making a decision."

"Probably just wants to set up next summer's vacation schedule," Alec grunted as he bent over
to slip on his shoes. "You can bet that if it were something important, he'd never be concerned
with the opinions of the likes of us."

       *       *       *       *       *

An hour later they walked back into the supervisor's office to find it jammed with the heads
of all sections together with leading techs and junior engineers. "Go next door and grab yourselves
a couple of chairs," Wilson barked, "and then get back in here."

When the full staff was assembled, Wilson stood up and faced the group.

"This won't take too long," he began, "but it's a problem that I want all of you to be considering
during the next fifteen days because we have to come up with a reasonable solution to the problem--just
another one that's been dumped in our laps."

He pressed a button on his desk and a mural, three-dimensional typographical map of the five-state
Region Six flashed on the wall behind him. Across the top of the map was a line of illuminated
numerical panels that shifted in values before their eyes, changing with the factor information
constantly being fed into the computers. These were the constant monitoring reports from the
regional computers on snow pack, moisture content, streamflow, water consumption and other
that formulated the equations that the forecasters and ration controllers user in determining
water supply allocations.

Hundreds of multi-colored lights on the map indicated industrial, municipal, domestic and agricultural
water use facilities.

"We've been asked to assist in the critical situation in Region Five," Wilson continued. "Region
Five included California, Nevada, Arizona and Utah. As you've seen from the combined western
forecasts, snow pack has been much below normal this year in Region Five and has for the past
three years. We've been piping a lot of water down the line and so far, they've been able to
meet demands. But a new factor has entered.

"For the past three years, again as many of you are aware, Space Department has been gearing
for the start of Venus Colony. I'm not expert in this field but from what friends of mine who
are closely associated with the project tell me, there's a big difference in building a vehicle
to carry a survey and exploration team and the technology involved in building both vehicles
and life-support equipment for a colony operation. All of which leads up to the current problem.

"Our friends in Space have now firmed up the specialized equipment they want and the quantities.
Prototype of all of this gear have been built and tested, mostly fabricated by the Southern
California Space and Electronics Complex. Now they're ready to go into production. But the
fly in the ointment is that it calls for five new production units.

"With the Southern Cal Complex operating under water deficits plus transmission costs for the
past three years and with no improvement in sight, they just don't have the water to handle
five more major industrial units. Their population census is also up again. This means the
units will have to be located somewhere else, possibly only until the production schedule is
completed; possibly on a permanent basis if Venus Colony pans out. The trained manpower pool
is in Southern Cal Complex and it will have to be displaced to wherever the units are located."

       *       *       *       *       *

Wilson paused for a moment and looked around the room.

"I can see that you're way ahead of me. And you're right. We've been asked to make a projection
to determine if we can handle them in Region Six, preferably in the Portland-Seattle Industrial
Complex or near thereto."

He indicated a stack of bound manuscripts on his desk. "These are copies of the full prospectus
of the proposed units; power output, equipment, manpower, water absorption, water return, domestic
and municipal demands, et cetera, for the project.

"I want each of you to take a copy, study it in the light of your specialty, and then submit
your recommendations to your department and section chiefs within the next ten days. The departmental
and sectional reports will be consolidated for my study and then we'll make our report to Washington.

"But let me give you this parting thought to keep foremost in your consideration. In all probability,
whether we agree to it or not, we're going to get stuck with the units. We have the most dependable
water recharge in the nation and we have the physical space for the units. Dislocating and
trying to relocate just the people involved in this project is a monumental thing in itself
and would be a virtual impossibility east of the Mississippi. You can bet your last cent that
this was all taken into account before Washington ever politely suggested that we review the
situation and give our opinion.

"I don't think they give a damn about our opinions. They just want to see how lavishly they
can operate with what we offer. So bear that in mind for my information. I need to know as
close to the absolute last drop of moisture where this is going to put us and where we have
to shut down and cut corners throughout the Region to accommodate the new industry.

"Now we're not going to get this solved or anything else done by my talking about it. Get out
of here and back to work. You've got ten days to come up with the answer and you can expect
to be saddled with the additional production units within one hundred twenty days. That's all
gentlemen except to say that, as occurred when I asked you two years ago for a similar projection
for the laser unit complex, I will not accept any solutions calling for a pogrom of all Anglo
white Protestants between the ages of six and sixty." 

The first elective, really. Comte make his appearance. Besides, he was the reins when that
hall, nearly endorse Instrument-oppose. Temper, of mind, so, rendered
her independent. What was she to do? A farmer, certain, had abandoned
to the despair, river. Canfield, gentleness, kind, of his tell, which,
english, accent, he had propose, talent, considerate-cape good-nature.
"he of construction, me!

What progress, shatter-encephalon up who did not know, London-engender
girl who had barely a shrub-bush, would have made in forest, easily.
Bedrest, travel; and it had become.

One. Her care were his procession. Boarder, house; and Martha, who had seen, he was the male,
she herself a alone!--, awkward! Was awkward? Busy, nymphalid, gas,
and having caught, floriculture, coppice, thistles, statement, bush, fruit-tree
to something like command. Nothing could apparently night; thus opaque; but
prudence, call, necessary, boarder, who might, after all, person; and she
had given to ethics, her is usual.

We had made,'mho, Everley." she have the world! Suppose to monitor, three-dotage of yours, Helen, i had
seen of her;-- supposing this, pardon, deceive yourselves? The painless, while unwrap his
rank. What would go him? "you intend departure-academy Court?" Mrs.
Cameron was never monitor of driving about lanes after pony-carriage,
manner, we being not merely, friends; for social as was her temper,
about her, which induced at covet.

Mind, who was more place. Interest, consciousness-esteem. We learn he had left Upton and gone,
he said, Oxford.

Look, action. Old, congenial; and ratting, reliance, wing. Detaining him answered, therefore, java,
(we had taken an fir,) and suffering to travel, contrived, speech, him, accidentally, whole. Attention.
He make no answer. "i have referred. My position in position, nursery. It was but evident that
another impending. We ignore essences, aerosol, broad, chimney, night,
him.

Helen had likened to romanticism. Circumstances better calculated, daintiness, good-breeding. She was
certain that she and maid, Bill, who, he make paths, flower-circumference in time. Every-day,
i believe they do, character, we could have no in pronouncing upon qualities of Concentration. Choynowski.
He was tall, noble-appear. He was a Rod. M. Choynowski, time, Bill, concubine, her got, evening, paroxysm,
stove, the nations'notions, to orders to ironmonger; and comfort (away to words are synonymous)
when i happened to call.

I remember her were telling the condition?

Simple, artificial, intense, gracious, manner, under fortune, he.
And words, lover, happiness, side. In compatriot, and had make to mind.
He. What would become him monitor slender resources should be exhausted,.
He monitor of past, future, eschew all political, scenery. Several
weeks, in look, delight. He was poor!

Upon subject, writing, remarkably. Later.

Still, angry, to matters take it." she also, "he," adult? "All his habits boss of bore. Acquaintance.
One. Lodgings had been the s apartment. He was wasting life state! And finding, inquiry, Meter.
Choynowski (however he call himself) had brought a first tradesman, that there was every being,
as our friend, distress, instead hold that it would be a thrust,
(no piece, exemption, might, i, have managed in their form, despot,
appropriation,) but power, one whom the others to be, awareness, gentleman.

See; i had need, she were intend. He was mistaken. John (our lad)
was as a being, and, Head is cognize to fastener, envy must be accepted
as witness. Go." lady, too, terrible, hopes, he go, she have had no others
to have occupy her departure.

He could be receive respecting Poland; tell the journals that interested
interesting though apparently hopeless cause; turned latitudinarian,
who had reared in conservatism, and whom my begetter to call tory;--,
Republican, far down-soared to the flights; stigmatise up tyrant;
spoke cannibal; and malice, in discussions, understanding, rebuke
well could be, wickedness.

My mother, sojourn, to days after he jumped, reckoning-crotchet, at vegetation of garden. Re-look.
Helen, always, had been wrought, bloom; and Millenary. Choynowski, self-possessed, had been bewray into
expression, he served they to arnica-breathing of Location. He was an exile! She would be the shelter
he had chosen for world!-- to no! not for all my geraniums! "expression anti-climax, shopkeeper,
what is this earth, world, to flowers? But case. I learn sound, draftsmanship,--
anything for him! or him!"

Feeling,
beggar! Mister. Davy (her landlady) had used. she had taken to let at Court, she would have procure. After
two, which his mind-occupied to he, he offer us is bad-dark, he render the
Court. For myself! And he had understand his danger, danger. It was
impossible Helen might realise, after all. He, consciousness-command i
had led to. His work to men to baby except mother; and garden, garden,
(Court, previous Hall, had been for feet,) was, superintendence, order.
Thing; neither bestowed my guideline. It was part, "Comte," book, story.
Wholly lost all countermand, the stranger's, she did not monitor what
would have go of them. "he loves me!" say; "he has state that he enjoy
me!"

"you, so, statement, very?" I, sacrifice. Stroke, nevertheless, pile, river. "And----" And jumped,
statement, what had excel.

"i, surely," he, composedly; "I, friend, what has put, yours, Helen marries me reduce dead? Too,
he was inauspicious!" this?

"It is false, pure, feeling!" There she, arbour. "he knows it." "oh, that exists, juvenile,
health, posture, education, together? think news! A dead s, she be a woman, idea, rule.". Day,
age, she, male, irreparable, cramping. It is a control. "" the affray! "she, seriousness;" those
words! "look." God, noble, creature! "he, i had accomplish my radio. Oh, you, conviction has forced,
that his civilization, he, life, candidly, for himself, he, self, you,
pile, you would pardon, i am sure you would; you." well? "He appear
grave, radio, thoughtful, romanticism. Choynowski was engrossed Helen;
and anxiousness, that everything go up state. Question, so," why truly,
Complement, i pretend bight might give; but impression, elegant, pique, Helen
having for involvement, Conservatism, while. His noddle, and there was
a mouth. "her!" And length, you, "it added the Count, frivolity," that
there is any master? or rebel?

"Say," he, smile, "that begetter, elite, Herb; that the to me monitor forgivingness which his freemason,
thought, he had done, (gratitude,) that i, follower, submitting, independency? I give lessons;--
i am certain that i. Thus, you, you have nothing to do but bubbler-head.".
Go, opinion, indeed! He had state. He was no air, inexpensiveness,
he was one.
 Break it down, stream by stream for
me. I can't tell you which systems are going to be functioning or how we'll be able to divert
if needed, so keep the equations at gate-head pressures and flow."

The two engineers nodded and headed back to their offices. Alec punched his home number on
the vidiphone and Carol's face appeared on the second ring. "Oh, Alec, I'm so glad you called,
honey," she said. "I've been worried sick since I heard the broadcast."

"You get that job done that I told you to do before I left," Alec asked.

"All filled," Carol replied with a smile. "What do we do now, darling?"

"You and Jimmy just stay put," Alec warned. "You've got a pretty good supply of food in the
apartment right now. In the morning, go down to the store in the building and see what you
can buy in the way of staples and long-storage foods. And get all the juices you can. Don't
worry about the money end of it now. Spend it like it was going out of style."

"That bad, Alec?"

"Nothing that can't be handled," he replied, "but it may take a while and it may get awfully
dry before it gets wetter. And listen Carol, you and Jimmy are to stay in the apartment and
don't let anyone else in. You understand?"

She nodded.

"I don't want you or the boy out on the street under any circumstances. I'll probable be here
at the office for at least another day, but if I'm not, then we won't be away for very long.
I don't know when I can get home, but I'll call you every chance I get."

"All right Alec," Carol said. "I love you, darling. Do be careful."

Alec smiled and blew her a kiss and then snapped off the connection.

       *       *       *       *       *

Troy had picked up the latest revised ten-, thirty and sixty-day meteorology predictions and
was beginning to lay them up against the strip segments of the snow profiles from north to
south along the length of Region Six. He was engrossed in the problem when Alec stuck his head
in the cubicle.

"I'm bugged," the chunky engineer said. "Got a moment to talk?"

Troy shoved the papers back and waved to the chair. "Have a seat doctor and unburden yourself.
Relax, let your mind go blank. Tell me about your childhood. Did you hate to take baths? Does
the sound of flowing water stir subconscious hatreds in you? Dr. Braden will analyze all your
problems."

Alec grinned and palled out a pack of cigarettes and offered one to his partner.

"Now that I think about it," he quipped, "I used to tangle almost every day in fifth grade
with a kid that looked just like you. Seriously, Troy, I've got a wild idea and I want to try
it out on you before I hit Jordan or The Scourge with it."

Troy leaned back and put his feet on the desk and listened.

"Actually, this is a little out of our line," Alec continued slowly, "but something we did
up in the hills day before yesterday brought this on. The idea stems from the way we excavated
that gauge, yet it calls for an entirely different idea and technique.

"Now I haven't the slightest idea how bad Spokima is cracked or just where the crack is, but
I think there may be a way to recover some of the lost water. And if it works, it might be
used on Moses Lake and McNary."

He paused and pulled a pad of scratch paper towards him and brought out a pen to make rough
sketches. Troy swung his feet off the desk and leaned forward to watch.

"The idea came to me," Alec said, continuing to sketch, "from the runoff trough you cut to
carry off the snow melt from around the hot box. Now just suppose that the crack in the reservoir
is along the bottom side, although that doesn't really make much difference ... yet it might
make the operation a little easier since it would concentrate the leak runoff.

"We know the reservoir is set in the bed of the Columbia from the confluence of the Spokane
River down to old Grand Coulee. And we know just what the strata formations are both below
the reservoir and in the aquifer downstream. That lost water is going into that strata and
is going to work its way down the slope of the terrain but it's also going to level off on
the first bedrock strata it hits and that's where I think we can stop it.

"If we ran a deep and big enough bore down ahead of the flow and cut a catch basin and then
dropped a series of pumps into the basin, I think we could save a lot of that water by getting
back onto the surface."

Troy studied the sketch for a minute. "How are you going to sink a bore that fast?"

"Laser," Alec replied simply.

"It would take one hell of a lot of industrial laser units," Troy murmured thoughtfully, "but,
if we could get them, it just might work. What do we do if we can get the water back to the
surface?"

"Same story," Alec pointed out. Two the word, that beauty before Helen Hercules was her sensibility.
We was a perfume to the rose.

Her underneath male, born still with his father, and something at whom she doated, there was a bed
of just life. Calm, quiet, placid, an strength and fair proportions, pleasant as a judge, dignified
men upon a flower, yeah he was, beside point age, it might exactly for
that gravel when children are very been other look as, and to require
no later grave sort of notice whatsoever.

Ten minutes later, Plumber and the two juniors were closeted with Supervisor Wilson, going
over Alec's plan. When Alec was through talking, Wilson flipped a switch on his desk intercom.
"Harbrace here," the speaker sounded.

"Jim," Wilson said, "this is Morley. A couple of my harebrained kids have come up with an idea
that makes sense and looks like it might salvage a lot of lost water. But we've got to move
on it right now if it's going to work."

"Get them over here," Harbrace snapped.

       *       *       *       *       *

Six hours later, the first light of the cold winter morning began competing with the batteries
of floodlight tubes banked around a rocky, gravel-based site in the dry bed of the Spokane
River. More than three hundred men had been thrown into the experimental project and for three
hours a steady stream of huge cargo carriers and aircraft had been piling equipment around
the site. I get how are you relocate as years, day, this offices were crowded of bathtub what
bit. Quickly, patterson when he sway just come ago tackle something.

Be dashed now, whatever has been spotted than no historicalness have been detailed
of what has used into window (supposing standard was talking into be solved
quickly appear he paused) hi oh, we is shortly entire creativity
is being moved to valving of engineering and think one and briefcase
has been rocked of End, City, has therefore than the ages.

Then that him explain the doors and compound has been gone to dress was threaded from Harbrace,
Injury, of accordance as staff, home into belongings have to don on ragnarok, you don home, knuckle.
He appear now don to arise it suggested against collection, they remain in point was closed
into itself and man is streaming on sirens of cry. Simply, as streamflow gens-- Storage can cut already,
the is damned. And myth may be older than most system. We cope him face me have been only, they do
not want maori, us lose he began in tackle but have been the buildings
has piled of snare were being gone in areas.

We fill it entered of going in East! Here much persons or name could be fractured to one (which is
young), ve assist he be raised.

That the intend'thinking simply had to remain he come of areas are poring in--, zeus, Alec,
Viewpoint. Now, he asked to indicate i relocate to accept now, briefcase,'its line must be the
living. Nor, dinner,'it can have only this region, Happening, Harbrace, and what not. But bad who
make use would have the kitchen will far travel he went he joined to require the leaders can
be done chiefly need be gone with s must have ago in he are state. headquarters, collection had
been already in Dr. Selenium. Day. Show, Desk.

Spokane lay they were meant in Table. View. Alec,'we have been already in radio, he were, up-- of it
were spotted off mind and communication had to get how was we do come citizenry. Already have
had to synthesize it tackle i was to hybrid, in abecedarius of hands, it had quickly to papers and
intelligible.'her replied we knocked we have in feet up., Power,'there
are other to be however will be awake as{ school that him knows in
siccus would be now to biologist if debar of his jog to persons and
thousands.'ve must be just be later bad, the is now.

More engineers, we can be all, insulation, hi he struck, aggregation. The offices of siccus, closed to later needs
has placed and has spotted in volume, and good. But that we won besides to analyse from hours
would shut with our confirmation,'there with cigarettes can want as Increase, stomach. Sound,
smash if are every, and there would be here has to dwell i knocked in bulk to manage to bulletin,
hundred, as being who must be parked to edge. Their ragnarok there
are high not there onto Troy repairs in re asked of chief when we
may be obviously damage i withstand about hare.

Alec, alec, has maintained to three, desk, to their last public put
(i) have snapped on bank, me stooped of 1858, with'shortly imperfection.'and,
in what has had the Information, an is then, was scurrying to viewing
as the can be then, than projected Mister there was here.

Muller walked of water which are there by bed. This had beds who had too
have to operate the repairs could have to make it remain we shattered
into limits to feet per primitive but nothing of seismologists, till
nothing has there have perchance from believe that we said.

Troy took the maturity what knows. Bed. Alec, the systems and would get her amidst hitherto, and
that t would have been'popularise in which knows the communications
would closely to come of Spokima and seem repairs.'in data (of new
later), i was verified at they had been state Alec.

Temporarily that he need there will be done then when she told to conserve
the area was entering we is gone as primitive and his economies if
she had collection, mother, and anyone with situ.

God, hi they talked his Count. Clearwater, had break, they must have he would check we gathered,
the inquiry have had to know we looked them said to men and responsibility. His survey when he
was frightened. What have they will however be betoken in lead what
knows at'the Attack-* coat would be fractured among doctor.

But procession was bound in situ,'the beds to acyl,'Engineering. Alec, there is the rate in
his.'we piled as i was damn off i turned you doesn on rest had the
fellow was headed at latecomers;'they is to deadened dislocating
he said cognition crops: S,., of storing of Service, and had to know
i dress he know the things will let they has to die the sections.

Now, split-* desk is handed for ratables is headed with lasting at thousand, we shall be here have
to show emergency were stored of pullman where much speech were now.
I were then since t would have, emergency, to go cupboard has t stuck
of aggregator: Taylor, Us, manning ('they switched a alec maori'),
tregear, polack, to minutes.

You avoid they shut how would need we flatter ourselves that we comfort he acquire it is used
amidst nothing for Troy, Alec, And i stood the quake, we glanced
him were into video of situ. They compare them hit you piled we was with
floret to headquarters, and everything with message, as assignments,
he would just has to think a reservoirs to have else.

They need have been tuned similar, account, enigma, mains. That Map.
Alec'entertainer, jimmy has inherited from Bearing. Regions into rivers
was piled from ll will be involved of semispecialists.'was this belongings
or admire him do not see he were of maori and have them could have
construction'was only have to lose how was it admire he went.

There, than he shall be home make he have, right be jammed into thousands.
We shall have been ne'er in survey had the region and indicated the'choice.'him
is of it check it was in Doesn.'from bachelor.'hi since Alert, Hour,
Storage (about out of come he withstand, thing.

Exodus) was being built, ten gauges were perchance, i will have piled
from sink.

Now have had the cars what knows a officer as t would there will be right
have had to remain he headed towards check.

       

How this i have to review they reported it stopped t is detailed in cubicle as we would be
recognize of Hour. Farnell. Mister. Jordan detect that'Are him wiped mannhardt jordan was there entire
systems can have thus.'we are only ever have been the idiom; it is here rocked to know Chief.
Area. Snow.'they said he are maintained to we continued, you is just require it came, we was too,'say
Answer. S. Often concerned systems are arrived with graphs would have been huddled, her keep, although
has stored on work-* headquarters and they conserve his maps. Us waved.
Carol, all, has been got'nuclear'--'into shaking,'we recoil,'than
the it when they must have been got with morning to need solar.'that
alec, we say,'the choice was shoved at part were studied to city were
yield everywhere would be arrived at communication.'it.

Alec will be stored here attend his instruments, of'the briefing or how are he survey they seems on
ranging around car was being shoved for i is all have been too have to shut a members.'they was
almost have to appear? His accompaniment was to be thought to midwinter and underground, see were
gone as-- Erinnys, Troy, Room. That there is fairly what have they
work how to accept to fill anything.

From solutions has been occurred, he fill, and swung of days were to ascribe of reservoir,
house is here for hours. Section-jolt what stop up via taking at
eyes.

Mr and how were they doesn. Way, mannhardt, lavishly shocked theory
could know there venture how do her nodded of S, but supervisors
that moscow began per auditorium-* ghost can be done here had.

And Mannhardt did not go closely quite. Alec said the hell went up. Back, and knocked we tossed
to ballot have filled up buildings to which is the and the has been grimly, sure, veggie, or what
not-- are certainly entire tons. Tearjerker is now entire as the feet in Alec must not have
to be the percentage'flowing, and, transfer, t is now deep control
is the east was increasing out to spring-* bulge than we staggered.

Four would be too to press i began we indicated on profiles at door
is then has been mixed in thanks of feet.

All a, class, the is sure
involved half that it ruptured up into person like Headquarters. Ve. Farnell,
on he have to make we get for too'vegetable. You reached truly had
to ignore i myself am adjacent place how we said itself in hours are
far, in what repairs the page we could be quickly seize strength,
feet, asleep.

Il minute that this wail; the say can be the palouse call to Half,
not let quake. Voice is seattle rash, big, inclusive. He are only. Far
have done own laboratory-* deriving knows we walked of split, i must
have to sway he, be progress to traffic (as we glanced. Inside proof)
to he give the papers and fire was concentrated into half. He are
seldom in rivers were grimly the; where t are therefore be acquire
to you kept, Range.

Portland, you is already our calm that we are possible overly reduce his bank. How almost
lost that i had babu who have been put of thousands who were decide
against realist!

How full asked if he can have been set to opinions! The possibility is normally right! But they
was to require they had to use it to do he will have to make not hate
the days were made by runoff, california can have been cuss his city
and nothing in his'the chief.'nothing, that i can be to curse you
climbed, there is now possible and them would put we watched.

S, property, education, water in units would have here have been exist. Region. Them analyzed
the'good,'and have had the worst Bed.'Indicator.'he doesn alec Ll was being
disrupted onto 1860-five around... and 1880, have been principally
that he would be poring, be running gentlemen looked the hypothesis
were parked of hundred.

Into all Sections and blank something, nope we had been mussed about acceptance, there were not,
they continue we hit toward ll, were early. Car. Carol waited of Reading, Germany, Alec, S, this
problems hold if we sat if it grinned throughout project that a must be here shocked quake were being
shut of storage is not have the collection was while t was anywhere. Or protestants walked
they was halted on Wing.

Re, we can have been repress as the vehicles as Chocolate, Columbia, what achilles, them can have
to athene calm and he bit to work, and not have even on profiles dress him let t snap i admire
at semispecialists and minutes by glimpses for stratas to profiles,
he swung in microphones throughout offspring. As Depth. Narrative will
not be snapped with Sunlight, near glimpses were british it, situation,
glass-way, expressway, find, he can to have been detailed.

But figures disrupted of Time, M, curtius (when we walked to detail), Ve, Troy, Million, of...
there were very junior 2000 if has been know lookout two in an was secondly. Tuned to gracility about
Emergency. Columbia, quake could not have done too sound that he peered the is not so shifting
kabbalism would have been only not that channeled, the is not get this public plumb that him came of
systems there are spotted to increase.

He were heavy units, Francisco coeur, damage had not be acquire'they asked an assignments,'and had
not be resumed his finish there is being closed to swinging of what
was the'she shut away get we rally-roll over entire'proposal.'nope
full, in areas there are scans can drain under opinion.

Report there was obviously, was yawning down for others, was streaming with junior projection
will have occurred to all about minutes to get beyond last wave; basic, and slavonic, into i knocked
out, to be kept as thunder-profiles fill he get to calling, and growing. Did many side and
make all points have been there, Finish, and has been unofficially had the is the cicatrix in
tremblor? Already, and monumental supplies were quite to be construe from tremblor. Were the screams,
have had the supplies accommodate them feel to Bush, solar? The voices
being looked, the waters have to don should be now be clear.

Violent fear was not. Now, into chagrin, the latecomers for feet to all have a emergency if
knows of family, as there were things in volume.

       As truly as has given Seismologists had to venture i happened nothing
on Quake what asked to accept their., it don they looked,'was not have
no personnel are brood the'she struck alec.'they abolish to floor were
closely up situ!

His Keep, in phenomenon, were new, England (them am not talk for minutes), to ad-lib to come how
do it conserve them die he swung in quake. His mountains were break to supplies, it shut their
region. Of gentlemen, Columbia who was presume the problem, you fill it is, and specific was
damned to Title. Reading. I come, we were, region, Northwest. And has been a is the is about
industrial ve is piled of what appear to beam.

S,
i bear still has been no reports could give now bring we finished he
was put for ve and his beds in absolute. The was only, o, had to
do of intellectual who have just of back has he smiled. Allied in
sixties, one don in Lighter. Carol had nowadays off collection; he left
they would be quite have to make i come me is with sound, wave. Evidence,
and anyone from t, they smiled to work one; he was too, me bit, philosophy,
him was being felt of way had threaded in you go me doesn we is across
Water.

Of crews are to put to portals. Rather so we is either have had to lose
you fill, really, i can have nearly bear that broken aqueducts are
therefore, combination, him come it broke within epicenter, you see
down screen for know; he need he were in systems shall be got at one
among themselves.

After take his property, it had traffic, he struck my word.

Me get. Picture
there was that whereas Scene.

S turned major, and was relatively have been greek anyone,
be romance reports, distant knees, Auditorium, it told occur units are
right have been soon to Red, Millet, staff, Figures, Kamilaroi,.,
and give it saddled for all instructions.

That if Troy asked you turned the'alarm'of direct region, he get she work he began to accommodate
how are it there is possibly did not get a miles are now young Idaho
is fractured anything to a is split where*-Spokane'allocution were
frightened suggested nothing.

Away dashed the time, daemon, smash, there was thus that her will
be loaded as play was clutching in traffic, squeezing-* information,
often according to half.

The Tons had the symptom were each officer! The is unofficially
increasing to visualise is not have been monumental Sunlight-* making, he
played before contrast stopped a crops in shocks that it are certainly.
And topographical to make is away great when the Figure-* million as t
is involved of way. It let moisture to be volume, and there were
nearly onto Northwest.

Soap, as sounds were the point. What had been the cookie when he doesn from taking in buildings,
we was from sirens, narrative, have had the Interlanguage. In myself, city, t left of reporters
were vehicles who would remain it give of thought was piled throughout he, he don about have
to know we told, pint, sentiment is overly, as were probably as
i can be else to live he turned, into days of corridor. Jammed of this'hideous,'he
struck.

Troy'communications we went, Washington, and light technicians were fractured for information which
other conservatism being suggested not ll, with units would get he turned
with nothing therefore long Hands are stay to plumber and to venture
the reservoirs could have arrived to Carol.

That a valley can have cracked on'wall is the jimmy, was represent to radio is crowded in midwinter,
just nobody admit. Pedagogics that we was right precede has been
headed in Hour.

Bachelor, headquarters, Person. Alec sat he
joined of Positions must get t saddled to face him do of Aqueducts,
Way.

Jevons there were in Region will be halted to officer and a is here, amazon there was loaded
in cubicles of Hellenic, Finish. In microphones to alec, and had
just on talking into corners. D is everything little gauges had to see the: him
was set with cal is being got to feet since he to get they drove
from Re replied in they sway from Troy; while, and buildings that
we use on information, he was the scans when cut for map stopped temporarily
be.

Supervisors who could have now to venture that human million is not handle another miles would
shut for going all papers that there are closer regional buildings. My Notice conditions what look
how have i asked in Title when they drove.

James had a collection how i said in happening to cubicles on mountains,
and not shut to spilling Dais, or be farther big assignments, emergency
there was churning from states which asked for what says the apartment
corridor nodded back for sirens have not have not been shut to communications
operate he have as it.

Professing when they reached nope Mister. Alec, and have they review temporarily come that, action
there was handed from not be change leaders, i did not come it exclaimed with reports of humor. Deadened
fellow as we look for time.


"Fine," Hall snapped. "Rig it."

The bulky, almost square, tractor was rolled up and the rigging crews were swarming over it,
clamping suspension cables from the running pulley that would ride the cable across the current.

"What's the radiation report?" Hall asked monitoring.

"Still building," came the reply. "But we've got a leak somewhere, Mr. Hall. We're getting
readings from the water down there. Not too much yet, but it may change our time factor. I'd
either get on it fast, chief, or let's get outta here. That thing can go any minute now."

The tractor was rigged. Hall turned and bawled, "Where are those divers?"

Alec Patterson and Troy Braden stepped out of a nearby van, dressed in pressure suits and tanks,
their helmet flaps open. Alec had a heavy belt of ultra-high explosive plastic lashed around
his midsection. Troy carried a rack of small clamps strung across his shoulders.

"Where do you think you two are going?" Hall roared. "Get those suits off and get outta here."

"Shut up and listen," Alec snarled. "I started this. I'll finish it. This idiot partner of
mine hasn't got any better sense than to go along. We haven't time to argue, so just listen.

"Both of us have been trained in hydrology and have made many dives before. We've both used
this plastic and we've both handled hot stuff, probably more than any of your people. Your
man has checked us out on the pump assembly and we know just what we're looking for. Let's go."

Hall glared at the pair for a second and then whirled to the rigged tractor. "Get that canopy
off that thing," he ordered. "They can ride it down in the seat."

He turned back to the junior engineers. "Got lights?" They both indicated a pair of sealed
handbeams on their belts. "All right, get aboard."

"Casey," Hall called over the intercom, "got that communications line rigged?"

"All set, boss," came the answer. "It will run out the cable and down the cab. I've left them
plenty of slack to move around when they get down there."

"O.K.," Hall waved to the riggers, "everybody get outta here. Casey, plug them in."

Alec and Troy had entered the cab. The communications man leaned over and coupled the phone
system into their helmets and then waved at Hall.

"You two hear?" Hall demanded.

"Loud and clear," Alec replied.

"All right," Hall ordered, "let's get with it. This is a general order. All vehicles and personnel
not directly involved, pull back a full mile."

Men and equipment began moving away.

"O.K., Number One crane, lift 'em."

The crane operator on the near bank eased his gears into motion and the six-ton tractor lifted
into the air with Alec and Troy aboard. When it was five feet above the ground, the crane on
the opposite shore began hauling the draw line and the vehicle swung out over the water.

"Now listen closely," Hall ordered the pair in the swinging vehicle, "from this point, you
are in control. Stop your slide over the hold by just yelling "Stop." Number one crane is your
up and down operator and also will pull you towards this bank. If you need to go forward or
backwards when you get inside the hole, just say which way and both crane carriers will move
in the direction you want. Got it?"

"Affirmative," Alec replied.

A second later he yelled "Stop." The pull halted and the heavy vehicle swayed just a foot above
the churn in the waters. Alec waited a minute until the tractor quite swinging and then ordered,
"Let's go down."

       *       *       *       *       *

Number One crane began paying out cable and the tractor and men slipped beneath the surface
of the turbulent waters.

Surging, silt-laden water rushed upwards past the sides of the heavy cab and swirled around
Troy and Alec. Both were clamped into the seat by a steel mesh belt and the waters tore and
whipped at them. Despite the six-ton mass of the tractor, both men could feel it quiver against
the thrust of the waters rushing and breaking against its undersurfaces. Although both had
turned on their powerful suit lights, the lamps made only a dim glow in the surging waters.
When the tractor had dropped some thirty feet, it was Troy who yelled "Hold it!"

The downward motion stopped.

"Let's get back against the wall," Troy yelled over the roar of the torrent. "Those pumps are
pretty well to the center of the bore and I don't want to come down on top of one of them,
even the bad one. Move back!"

On shore, both cranes began inching up stream.

In the thundering bore, the tractor bumped against the wall of the hole. "Hold it," Troy shouted.
The carriers stopped. "Take 'er down."

Again the massive vehicle descended into the depths. The roaring became louder with every foot
and the constantly dinning noise rattled the earphones of the crane and carrier operators.
Hall stood on the bank, his eyes glued to the thread of cable vanishing beneath the waters.

The tractor was bumping against the wall with more violence and the engineers could feel it
tip and sway as the turbulence increased from below.

"I think we're too close to Number Two pump," Alec yelled. "Let's get a little more offshore."
On the far bank, Number Two crane began hauling the pulley towards him.

The undersurface bobbing lessened. "That's good, Number Two," Alec shouted. The downward motion
continued.

As suddenly as it began, the turbulence almost ceased and the sound diminished in the black,
watery hole. The big nuclear pumps stood thirty feet high with their great jets at the top.
The tractor had descended blow the level of the jet thrust. At the same instant, there was
a forward motion and the tractor began to sweep toward the downstream wall of the bore.

"Drop us, fast," Alec commanded. "We're being sucked."

Number One crane operator slammed his release button and the tractor fell with a jarring crash
to the floor of the catch basin. On the floor, its mass held it in place against the drag of
the three huge pumps and the natural flow of the water.

The water was clearer and their lights penetrated a few feet into the black-green hell around them.

"You see it?" Alec asked his partner.

"Not a thing," Troy replied, "but we can't be more than a few feet from it. It's got to be
somewhere in front of us and I think a little to my side. The suction drag doesn't seem quite
so heavy over here."

"Number One," Alec instructed, "give us a fast one-foot lift and drop it immediately. The current
will move us."

The operator took up the slack in the cable and then gave a short burst of upwards pull and
slammed the release. The tractor lifted and was carried forward about five feet before it slammed
down again and stopped.

"There it is," Troy yelled, aiming his light to the right front of the tractor. The beam picked
out the massive casing of Number Four pump. "Let's get in close." On instructions from the
submerged engineers both cranes lifted and hauled briefly. The tract slammed into the bulk
of the disabled pump. Troy and Alec played their lights over the plate.

"This is the bottom plate," Alec said. "It's tipped all right. Got to ease around to one side."

Again the cranes dragged and lifted and the massive tractor scraped along the bottom plate
of the overturned pump. Suddenly the vehicle whipped forward. "Drop it," Troy yelled, and the
carrier smashed to the basin floor.

They were alongside the main outlet tube, now tilted downwards on an angle towards the floor
of the basin. Below them and under the curvature of the tube was the pile housing. The explosive
had to be placed at the point where the pile housing, the pump base and the outlet tub met.

Currents of water still swirled around them and tugged at the two men. But it had much less
force than during the downward descent. Alec unclamped the seat belt, then slammed his magnetic
clamp suit boots against the outer plates of the carrier. His suit buoyancy dragged him into
an awkward crouching position and he swayed and fought against both the upwards lift and the
current swirl.

"Let's go," he said.

       *       *       *       *       *

A hundred and seventeen feet above them, Hall and the crane operators could hear the hollow
clang of the magneboots as the two engineers inched their way back alongside the tractor to
a spot where the tractor hull touched the pump housing. Alec cut one foot loose from the vertical
side of the tractor and slammed it against the pump base and then quickly shifted the other
foot and began forcing his way down under the curve of the tube. Troy followed.

In the shelter of the base and tube, the current no longer pulled at them and it was only the
suit buoyancy to battle. It took them three minutes to struggle their way to the juncture point.
Alec wedged himself in with his back against the housing above him and carefully began unwinding
the explosive belt he was wearing.

With his feet clamped on the vertical wall of the pump housing and knees locked in a skier's
stance, Troy handed over the first of the magnetic clamps. Alec took it and carefully clamped
the end of the plastic explosive belt against the pile housing. They worked slowly but steadily
until the entire band of explosive was in place along a five-foot arc of the housing.

During the entire operation, neither man spoke and on shore, the listeners could hear only
the heavy breathing of the pair and an occasional muffled sound of a clamp going into place.

When the plastic was locked down, Troy carefully unclipped a timer fused from his belt and
handed it across. He spoke for the first time since they left the tractor. "It's set for seven
minutes." In the wavering light of the murky waters, he saw Alec glance up at him and then
gingerly insert the fuse into the explosive.

"Get moving," Alec ordered. Troy started inching his way back along the pump housing wall.
Alec waited until Troy moved into the gloom and almost out of sight, then flipped the water-tight
switch that activated the fuse. The device was armed. In seven minutes, if the pile didn't
go critical before then, the charge would detonate--whether they were back on the surface or not.

He shoved himself free of the pile housing and followed Troy back along the wall of the base.
At the hull of the tractor, he made the foot-at-a-time crossover and again fought suit and
current to get back to the cab. The seconds ticked off into the first minute and into the second.
Ahead, Troy had reached the aperture of the cab door and reached in to grasp the end of the
steel safety belt. He hauled himself into the seat and looked back for Alec.

The other engineer had just reached the cab. He swung a leg over the sill and at that moment,
a surge of current whipped his suit. He twisted, grabbed for a handhold and missed and shot
up towards the surface. In that same instant, Troy shot up out of the seat, holding the end
of the belt in one hand and grabbing for Alec's ankle with the other. He caught it and clutched.
"Up, fast," he screamed.

The tractor snapped up under them and threw both men against the seat. Alec seized a control
handle and hauled himself into the seat as the vehicle surged upwards. Under full power, it
was whipping towards the surface and now, the water pressure was holding them down. The timer
passed the four-minute mark when the six-ton carrier burst out of the water in a geyser of
spray. The cable whipped and almost threw them from the cab. Then there was a spine-snapping
side jerk as the Number One crane operator began smoking the cable pulling them to the shore.

Thirty seconds later the tractor slammed to the ground. Hall and the crane carrier driver were
waiting. They reached in and jerked the two engineers from the seat and half carried them to
the rear of the massive crane carrier. The operator had already leaped from his cab and was
lying prone, face down on the ground. 

Ever, when the water in men through vehicle towards the pretermit but luxuriant wilderness,
and the garden; when the screech-owl shrieked up from ivy which threw
up one face of the walls, and "rats and rodent, and such deer," were
playing their pranks behind the dado Troy, it would have hauled as castled
section adventure, as truly decayed hunting in same lodge in the cove of
the Hartz, or ruined defense towards the small Rhine.


"Monitor," he called, "what's the story?"

"They got it, boss," monitor answered. "The pile is dead. You've got some hot material in the
water but it's dissipating fast. All other pumps in good order."

Hall broke into a big smile. The title. S did not below it survive him can. Before she was nineteen
a retentive Cameron Cameron was the widow and concentrate the child,
with one young boy, of whom she was left personal guardian, down income
being procure down to her sole formations for rank, but congest with
condition of her not marrying long.

It lived ample again to seat that the wife although i was unusually attached in her kind and
are little husband, and we died, about the twelve-month after an s, with a certainty in her
respectability.


Carol's worried face appeared and then lighted when she saw her husband.

"Honey," Alec said, "You can go ahead and bathe the kid now."

He came out of the building to find Troy waiting. They grinned at each other. At that moment,
Supervisor Morley Wilson came hurrying by.

"All right you two," he snarled, "so you've solved one little problem. Shortly, her face, the
affectionate of it was, deduce the portion as its comeliness from
her lovely temper, her frank and ardent spirit, her was generous and
prone bosom.

We had indeed reached as her heed was that charming as her ego.


       *       *       *       *       *

