"It was a close thing," he said, scratching his head, "and only a third of us made it."

Fear gripped the hearts of the most courageous of men. It was terrifying and nerve-racking
to face such an unhuman foe--weird, drifting globes and invading jungles whose very source
was shrouded in mystery. Against this enemy no weapons seemed to prevail. All the paraphernalia
of modern warfare was proving useless. And looking at each other with white faces--not alone
in Arizona, but in New York, Chicago, Los Angeles--men asked themselves these questions, and
the newspapers posed them:

    "What if this thing can't be stopped?"

    "What if it keeps on and on and invades every city and state?"

    "It is only starting now, but what will it be like a month from
    now, a year?"

The whole nation awoke to a realization of its danger. The Administration at Washington solemnly
addressed itself to the capitals of the world.

    "If some power, jealous of the greatness of America, has perfected
    a new and barbarous weapon of warfare, and without due warning and
    declaration of hostilities has launched it against us, not only do
    we denounce such uncivilized procedure, but demand that such a
    power speak out and reveal to us and the world who our enemy is."

But the powers of the world, as one, united in disclaiming any hand in the monstrous attack
being made on the United States. As for that attack, it proceeded inexorably. On the fourth
day Tucson was evacuated. Then Winkleman awoke one morning to find that the drifting globes
had reached the river. The town was abandoned. California mobilized citizen forces in cooperation
with Nevada. The great physicist Miller was said to be frantically at work on a chemical designed
to destroy the gigantic growths, specimens of which had been sent him. Such was the condition
of affairs when, at Washington, Milton Baxter, the young student, told his incredible story
to a still more incredulous Senate.

The Senate had been sitting in anxious session for five days, and was little inclined to give
ear to the stories of cranks. Fortunately for the world, young Baxter came of an influential
family and had taken the precaution of having himself introduced by two prominent financiers,
who demanded that he be heard.

"Gentlemen," he said earnestly, "contrary to current opinion, America is not being assailed
by a foreign power. No! Listen to me a moment and I shall tell you what is attacking America."

He paused and held the assemblage with compelling eyes.

"But first let me explain how I know what I am going to tell you. I was in London when I read
of what is occurring in Arizona. Before the wire went dead on him, didn't the unfortunate constable
of Oracle say something about birds?"

The senators were silent. "Yes," said a press correspondent at length. "If I remember correctly,
he said, 'And there are the birds--b-i-r-d-s, birds.'"

"Well," exclaimed Senator Huffy, "the man was pretty well excited and his words may have been
misunderstood. What the devil have birds to do with those globes and jungles?"

"More than you think," replied Baxter. "Listen!" He fixed their attention with uplifted hand.
"The thing I have to reveal is of such paramount importance that I must not be interrupted.
You must bear with me while I go back some months and even years in time to make myself understood.

"You all remember the mysterious disappearance of Professor Reubens. Yes, I see that you do.
It caused a sensation. He was the foremost scientist in the country--it would not be exaggerating
too much to say in the world. His name was not as well known among the masses as that of Miller
and Dean; in fact, outside of an exclusive circle it wasn't known at all, but ask any scientist
about Reubens. He was a tall, dour man of sixty, with Scotch blood in his veins, and was content
to teach a class in a college because of the leisure it afforded him for his own research work.
That was at the University of Arizona in Tucson.

"The faculty of the college was proud to have him on its staff and provided him with a wooden
building back of the campus, for a private laboratory and workshop. I understand that the Rockefeller
Institute contributed funds towards Professor Reubens' experiments, but I am not certain.

"At any rate he had a wonderfully well equipped place. I was a pupil at the University and
attended his class in physics. A strong friendship grew up between us. How can I explain that
friendship? I was not a particularly brilliant student, but he had few friends and perhaps
my boyish admiration pleased him. I think, too, that he was lonely, heart-hungry for affection.
His wife was dead, and his own boy.... But I won't go into that.

"Suffice it to say that I believe he bestowed on me some of the affection he had felt for his
dead son. Indeed I am sure he did. Be that as it may, I often visited him in his laboratory
and watched, fascinated, as he pored over some of his intricate apparatus. In a vague way,
I knew that he was seeking to delve more deeply into the atom.

"'Before Leeuwenhoek invented the microscope,' the Professor once said, 'who ever dreamed of
the life in a drop of water? What is needed now is a super-microscope to view the atom.'

"The idea thrilled me.

"'Do you believe, sir, that an instrument will ever be invented that will do that?'

"'Yes. Why not? I am working on some such device myself. Of course the whole thing has to be
radically different. The present, method of deducing the atom by indirection is very unsatisfactory.
We can know nothing for certain until direct observation is possible. The atomic theory that
likens the atom to our solar system, with planets revolving round a central nucleus, is very
interesting. But I shall never be content, for one, until I can see such an atomic system in
operation.'

"Now I had every admiration for the capacity and genius of my teacher, but I couldn't forebear
exclaiming:

"'Is that possible?'

"'Of course it's possible,' he cried irritably. 'Do you think I should be pursuing my experiments
if I didn't think it possible? Only numbskulls think anything impossible!'

"I felt rather hurt at his retort and a certain coolness sprang up between us. The summer holidays
came and I went away without bidding him good-by. But returning for the new semester, my first
act was to hurry to the laboratory. He greeted me as if there had never been any difference
between us.

"'Come,' he cried; 'you must see what I have accomplished. It is marvelous, marvelous.'

"In his workshop stood a mechanism perhaps three feet square and four feet high. It was made
of polished steel and looked not unlike an Edison music box.

"'You are the first I have shown it to,' he said excitedly. 'Here, look into this.'

"Stooping over the top of the box I peered into the eye-piece indicated. It was so fashioned
that it fitted the contour of the face snugly.

"'Now hold steady,' warned the Professor. 'This machine makes quite a noise, but it won't harm
you at all.'

"I sensed that he was fingering and arranging dials and levers on the side of the contrivance.
Suddenly an engine in the box began to throb with a steady rhythm. This gradually increased
in tempo until the vibration of it shook the room.

"'Don't move,' shouted the Professor.

"At first I could see nothing. Everything was intensely dark. Then the darkness began to clarify.
Or rather I should say it seemed as if the darkness increased to such a pitch that it became--oh,
I can't describe it! But of a sudden I had the sensation of looking into the utter bleakness
and desolation of interstellar space. Coldness, emptiness--that was the feeling. And in this
coldness and emptiness flamed a distant sun, around which twelve darker bodies the size of
peas revolved. They revolved in various ellipses. And far off--millions of light years away
(the thought came to me involuntarily at the time)--I could glimpse infinitesimal specks of
light, a myriad of them. With a cry I jerked back my head.

"'That,' shouted the Professor in my ear, 'was an atomic universe.'

"It never entered my head to doubt him. The realness, the vividness, the overwhelming loneliness
and vastness of the sight I had seen--yes, and the suggestion of cosmic grandeur and aloofness
that was conveyed--banished any other feeling but that of belief.

"'Inside that box,' said Professor Reubens quietly, 'and directly underneath the special crystal-ray
medium I have perfected, is a piece of matter no larger than a pin-head. But viewed through
the magnifying medium of the crystal-ray that insignificant piece of matter becomes as vast
and as empty as all space, and in that space you saw--an atomic system.'

"An atomic system! Imagine my emotions. The tremendousness of the assertion took away my breath.
I could only seize the Professor's hand and hold to it tightly.

"'Softly, my boy, softly,' he said, smiling at my emotion. 'What you have seen is but the least
part of the invention. There is more to it than that.'

"'More?'

"'Yes. Did you think I would be content with merely viewing at a distance? No. Consider that
revolving round a central nucleus similar to our sun are twelve planets, any one of which may
be inhabited by intelligent creatures.'

"I stared at him dumbly.

"'You mean--'

"'Why not? Size is only relative. Besides in this case I can demonstrate. Please look again.'

"Not without trepidation, I did as he bade. Once more I saw the black emptiness of atomic space,
saw the blazing nucleus with its whirling satellites. Above the roaring noise of the machine
came Professor Reubens' voice. 'I am now intensifying the magnifying medium and focusing it
on one of the planets you see. The magnifying crystal-ray is mounted on a revolving device
which follows this particular planet in its orbit. Now ... now....'

"I gazed, enthralled. Only one atomic planet--the size of a pea and seemingly motionless in
space--now lay in my field of vision. And this planet began to grow, to expand, until beneath
my staring eyes it looked like the full moon in all its glory.

"'I am gradually increasing the magnifying power of the crystal-ray,' came the voice of the
Professor.

"The huge mass of the planet filled the sub-atomic sky. My hands gripped the rim of the box
with excitement. On its surface began to form continents, seas. Good God! was all this really
materializing from a speck of matter under the lens of a super-microscope? I was looking down
from an immense height upon an ever clarifying panorama. Mountains began to unfold, plains,
and suddenly beneath me appeared a mighty city. I was too far away to see it distinctly, but
it was no city such as we have on earth. And yet it was magnificent; it was like gazing at
a strange civilization.

"Dimly I could see great machines laboring and sending forth glowing streamers of light. Strange
buildings rose. It was all bizarre, bewildering, unbelievably weird. What creatures dwelt in
this place? I strained my eyes, strove to press forward, and in that very moment the things
at which I gazed seemed to rise swiftly to meet my descending head. The illusion was that of
plunging earthward at breakneck speed. With a stifled cry, I recoiled, rubbed my blinking eyes,
and found myself staring stupidly into the face of Professor Reubens. He shut off the machine
and regarded me thoughtfully.

"'In that atomic universe, on a planet swinging round a sub-atomic sun, the all of which lies
somewhere in a speck of our matter, intelligent creatures dwell and have created a great machine
civilization. And Baxter,' he leaned forward and fixed me with eyes that gleamed from under
heavy brows, 'not only has my super-atomic-microscope revealed somewhat of that world and its
marvels to human vision, but it has opened up another, a more wonderful possibility.'

"He did not tell me what this wonderful possibility was, and a few minutes later I left the
laboratory, intending to return after a late class. But a telegram from Phoenix was at my rooms,
calling me home. My father was seriously ill. It was June before he recovered his health. Consequently
I had to forego college until the next season.

"'Old Reubens is going dotty,' said one of my classmates to me. Rather disturbed, I sought
him out. I saw that there were dark circles of sleeplessness under his eyes and that his face
had grown thinner. Somewhat diffidently I questioned him about his experiments. He answered slowly:

"'You will recollect my telling you that the super-atomic-microscope had opened up another
wonderful possibility?'

"I nodded, sharply curious now.

"'Look.'

"He led the way into his workshop. The super-atomic-microscope, I noticed, had been altered
almost out of recognition. It is hopeless for me to attempt describing those changes, but midway
along one side of its length projected a flat surface like a desk, with a large funnel-shaped
device resting on it. The big end of this funnel pointed towards a square screen set against
the wall, a curious screen superimposed on what appeared to be a background of frosted glass.

"'This,' said the Professor, laying one hand on the funnel and indicating the screen with the
other, 'is part of the arrangement with which I have established communication with the world
in the atom.

"'No,' he said, rightly interpreting my exclamation, 'I am not crazy. For months I have been
exchanging messages with the inhabitants of that world. You know the wave and corpuscular theories
of light? Both are correct, but in a higher synthesis--But I won't go into that. Suffice it
to say that I broke through the seemingly insuperable barrier hemming in the atomic world and
made myself known. But I see that you still doubt my assertion. Very well, I will give you
a demonstration. Keep your eyes on the screen--so----'

"Adjusting what seemed a radio headpiece to my ears, he seated himself at a complicated control-board.
Motors purred, lights flashed, every filament of the screen became alive with strange fires.
The frosted glass melted into an infinity of rose-colored distance. Far off, in the exact center
of this rosy distance appeared a black spot. Despite the headpiece, I could hear the Professor
talking to himself, manipulating dials and levers. The black spot grew, it advanced, it took
on form and substance; and then I stared, I gasped, for suddenly I was gazing into a vast laboratory,
but depicted on a miniature scale.

"But it wasn't this laboratory which riveted my attention. No. It was the unexpected creature
that perched in the midst of it and seemed to look into my face with unwinking eyes of gold
set in a flat reptilian head. This creature moved; its feathers gleamed metallically; I saw
its bill open and shut. Distinctly through the ear-phones came a harsh sound, a sound I can
only describe by the words toc-toc, toc-toc. Then, just as the picture had appeared, it faded,
the lights went out, the purring of the motors ceased.

"'Yes,' said the Professor, stepping to my side and removing the headpiece, 'the inhabitants
of the sub-atomic planet are birds.'

"I could only stare at him dumbly.

"'I see that astounds you. You are thinking that they lack hands and other characteristics
of the genus homo. But perhaps certain faculties of manipulation take their place. At any rate
those birds are intelligent beings; in some respects, further advanced in science than are
we ourselves. Perhaps it would be more exact to say that their scientific investigations and
achievements have been along slightly different lines. If such messages I sent them had come
to our world from another planet or dimension, how readily they might have been misconstrued,
ridiculed or ignored.' The Professor shrugged his shoulders. 'But the beings in this sub-atomic
world interpreted my communications without difficulty.

"In no time we were conversing with one another through means of a simplified code. I was soon
given to understand that their scientists and philosophers had long recognized the fact that
their universe was but an atom in an immeasurably greater dimension of existence; yes, and
had long been trying to establish contact with it.' The Professor's voice fell. 'And not that
alone: they were eager to cooperate with me in perfecting a method of passing from their world
to ours!

"'Yes,' he cried, 'much of what I have accomplished has been under their advice and guidance;
and they on their part have labored; until now'--his eyes suddenly blazed into my fascinated
face--'until now, after months of intensive work and experiment, success is nigh, and any day
may see the door opened and one of them come through!'

"Gentlemen!" cried Milton Baxter, "what more is there to say? I staggered from Professor Reubens'
laboratory that afternoon, my head in a whirl. That was on a Monday.

"'Come back Thursday,' he said.

"But as you know, Professor Reubens disappeared on a Wednesday night before; and stranger still,
his machines disappeared with him. In his laboratory were signs of a struggle, and bloodstains
were found. The police suspected me of a guilty knowledge of his whereabouts, in short of having
made away with my friend. When I told somewhat of the experiments he had been engaged in, spoke
of the missing inventions, they thought I was lying. Horrified at the suspicion leveled at
myself, I finally left Tucson and went abroad. Months passed; and during all those months I
pondered the mystery of the Professor's fate, and the fate of his machines. But my fevered
brain could offer no solution until I read of what was happening in Arizona; then, then...."

Milton Baxter leaned forward, his voice broke.

"Then," he cried, "then I understood! Professor Reubens had succeeded in his last experiment.
He had opened the door to earth for the bird intelligences from the atom and they had come
through and slain him and spirited away his machines and established them in a secret place!

"God help us," cried Milton Baxter, "there can be but one conclusion to draw. They are waging
war against us with their own hideous methods of warfare; they have set out to conquer earth!"

Such was the amazing story Milton Baxter told the Senate, but that body placed little credence
in it. In times of stress and disaster cranks and men of vivid imaginations and little mental
stability inevitably spring up. But the Washington correspondents wired the story to their
papers and the Associated Press broadcast it to the four winds.

Talbot had just returned to Phoenix from New Mexico. He had been out of touch with civilization
and newspapers and it was with a feeling of stunned amazement that he learned of the evacuation
of Tucson and Winkleman and the wiping out of Oracle. Reading Milton Baxter's incredible story
he leapt to his feet with an oath. Toc-toc! Why, that was the sound the strange birds had uttered
in the hills back of Oracle. And there was the noise of machinery coming from the old shaft.

Full of excitement he lost no time in seeking an interview with the military commander whose
headquarters were located in Phoenix and related to him what Manuel and himself had witnessed
and heard that day at the abandoned mine. Manuel corroborated his tale. The commander was more
than troubled and doubtful.

"God knows we cannot afford to pass up an opportunity of wiping out the enemy. If you will
indicate on a map where the old shaft is we will bomb it from the air."

But Talbot shook his head.

"Your planes would have a tough job hitting a spot as small as that from the air. Besides,
a direct hit might only close up the shaft and not destroy the workings underground. If the
enemy be the creatures Milton Baxter says they are, what is to prevent them from digging their
way out and resuming the attack?"

"Then we will land troops in there somehow and overwhelm them with----"

Talbot interrupted. "Pardon me, General, but the enemy would have no difficulty in spotting
such a maneuver. What chance would your soldiers have against a shower of jungle seed? You
would only be sending them to destruction. No, the only way is for someone familiar with those
old underground diggings to enter them, locate the birds and the machines and blow them up."

"But who----"

"Myself. Listen. This is the plan. About five years ago my company mined for copper and other
ores about a half mile above the Wiley claim. I was in charge of operations. That is how I
know the ground so well. One of our northern leads broke through into a tunnel of the abandoned
mine. When copper prices were shot to hell in the depression of 1930 we quit taking out ore;
but when I went through the place eighteen months ago it was still possible to crawl from one
mine to another. Of course earth and rock may have fallen since then, but I don't believe the
way is yet blocked. If I were dropped in that vicinity at night with another man and the necessary
tools and explosives...."

The general thought swiftly.

"An auto-gyroscope could land you all right. There's one here now. But what about the second
man to accompany you?"

Manuel said quickly, "I'm going with the boss."

"You, Manuel," Talbot said roughly. "Don't be a fool. If anything should happen to me--well,
I've lived my life; but you're only a kid."

Manuel's face set stubbornly. "An experienced mining man you need, is it not? In case there
should be difficulties. And I am experienced. Besides, señores," he said simply, "my wife and
child are somewhere in those mountains ... above Oracle...."

Talbot gripped his hand in quick sympathy. "All right, Manuel; come if you like."

A moonless sky hung above them as they swung over the dark and jungle-engulfed deserted city
of Tucson, a sky blazing with the clarity of desert stars, and to the south and west shot through
with the beams of great searchlights. Flying at a lofty altitude to avoid contact with drifting
globes or betrayal of their coming with no lights showing aboard their craft save those carefully
screened and focused on the instrument board, it was hard to realize that the fate of America,
perhaps of the world, hung on the efforts of two puny individuals.

Everything seemed unreal, ghost-like, and suddenly the strangeness of it all came over Talbot
and he felt afraid. The noiseless engine made scarcely a sound; the distant rumble of gunfire
sounded like low and muttering thunder. They had come by way of Tucson so as to pick up a ten-gallon
tube of concentrated explosive gas at the military camp in the Tucson mountains.

"This gas," the general had assured them, "has been secretly developed by the chemical branch
of the War Department and is more powerful than TNT or nitro-glycerin. It is odorless, harmless
to breathe and exploded by a wireless-radio device."

He had showed them how to manipulate the radio device, and explained that in the metal tube
was a tiny chamber from which gas could not escape, and a receiving-detonating cap. "If you
can introduce the tube into the underground galleries where you suspect the enemy's headquarters
to be, allow the contents to escape for ten minutes, and a mile distant you can blow the mine
and all in it to destruction. And you needn't be afraid of anything escaping alive," he had
added grimly.

