Therefore, there is but one "Lear": his madness was never imitated outside of Bedlam; but one
Lady Macbeth, and we have seen her walking in her awful dream. Beaumont and Fletcher in six
romances delineate "love-lorn maidens," "conventionalized types," who differ little from each
other, except that three of them "masquerade in boy's clothing" and three do not. They have
"little individuality," "are utterly romantic," "utterly removed from life"; all are presented
to produce novel situations leading up to a startling climax.

Imogen is not like Miranda or Perdita; neither is a "type" of the "love-lorn" maiden; all are
living, acting individuals, differing from each other like those we know, resembling each other
only as one beautiful and pure woman resembles another. Professor Thorndike, who is the advocate
of Beaumont and Fletcher, may keep his personal opinion that Imogen lacks "individual traits,"
but we respectfully decline to take his opinion as a critic that she is like Arethusa in "Philaster."
For us and for all men and women, Shakspere has created the character of Imogen, as of Perdita
and Miranda, and her "individual traits" are clear enough, to those who have had the happiness
of her acquaintance, to show that neither in feature or dress, neither in manners or morals,
did she "imitate" any of the heroines of Beaumont and Fletcher. But even as a critic we must
differ from Professor Thorndike; he accuses Miranda of unpardonable indelicacy, and says she
"proposed" to Ferdinand! He gives her language from "Tempest," and remarks with satisfaction
that it sounds "very much like one of Beaumont and Fletcher's heroines," meaning of course
Arethusa, and so draws the obvious conclusion that Shakspere in this remarkable instance clearly
"imitated" the "creators" of the "heroic romantic drama." The difficulty with this statement
first of all is, that it is not true: Miranda does not "propose" to Ferdinand; before her sweet
confession of love, Ferdinand had given all lovers the best form of proposal ever spoken, in
this language:

        "I,
     Beyond all limit of what else i' the world,
     Do love, prize, honor you."

Arethusa does "propose" to Philaster, and therefore her "proposal" does not "sound very much
like" the proposal in "Tempest," or, if it does, it tends strongly to show that Beaumont and
Fletcher attempted an "imitation" from "The Tempest." Professor Thorndike the critic has here
been misled by his zeal as the partisan: isn't it just possible that the like zeal has misled
him in the conclusion that "Cymbeline" was an imitation of "Philaster"?

The second class of "types," as shown by the dramas of Beaumont and Fletcher, is the "evil
woman"--Evadne in the "Maid's Tragedy," Bacha in "Cupid's Revenge," Megra in "Philaster," Brunhalt
in "Thierry and Theodoret" and Arane in "A King and No King." Professor Thorndike says that
"four of them brazenly confess adultery, and four attempt murder," and that "the resemblance
... is unmistakable ... and on the stage even more than in print" these characters "must have
seemed to all intents identical."

The only parallel to this in Shakspere's "romances," as drawn by Professor Thorndike, is that
the "wicked Queen in 'Cymbeline' is very like the wicked queens of Beaumont and Fletcher,"
and that "there are other characters ... who show resemblances to Beaumont and Fletcher's stock
types." What the resemblances are we are not told, and we need not inquire until we learn which
"type" is the original, which the "imitation." Meanwhile, we may rest upon the fact that, so
far as queens are concerned, there is no "stock type" in Shakspere; they differ from each other
as widely as Hamlet's mother from Imogen's mother-in-law. If any of them resemble Beaumont
and Fletcher's queens, it is clear that Beaumont and Fletcher were the "imitators," not Shakspere.

