While Mendez was making his preparations, putting a false keel on the canoe and fixing weather
boards along its gunwales to prevent its shipping seas, fitting a mast and sail and giving
it a coat of tar, the Admiral retired into his cabin and busied himself with his pen.  He wrote
one letter to Ovando briefly describing his circumstances and requesting that a ship should
be sent for his relief; and another to the Sovereigns, in which a long rambling account was
given of the events of the voyage, and much other matter besides, dismally eloquent of his
floundering in the quag.  Much in it--about Solomon and Josephus, of the Abbot Joachim, of
Saint Jerome and the Great Khan; more about the Holy Sepulchre and the intentions of the Almighty
in that matter; with some serious practical concern for the rich land of Veragua which he had
discovered, lest it should share the fate of his other discoveries and be eaten up by idle
adventurers.  "Veragua," he says, "is not a little son which may be given to a stepmother to
nurse.  Of Espanola and Paria and all the other lands I never think without the tears falling
from my eyes; I believe that the example of these ought to serve for the others."  And then
this passage:

     "The good and sound purpose which I always had to serve your
     Majesties, and the dishonour and unmerited ingratitude, will not
     suffer the soul to be silent although I wished it, therefore I ask
     pardon of your Majesties.  I have been so lost and undone; until now
     I have wept for others that your Majesties might have compassion on
     them; and now may the heavens weep for me and the earth weep for me
     in temporal affairs; I have not a farthing to make as an offering in
     spiritual affairs.  I have remained here on the Indian islands in
     the manner I have before said in great pain and infirmity, expecting
     every day death, surrounded by innumerable savages full of cruelty
     and by our enemies, and so far from the sacraments of the Holy
     Mother Church that I believe the soul will be forgotten when it
     leaves the body. Injin Charley had, during the winter just wonderful, occupied
     even moments in embroidering on beads and porcupine pinion a soft outfit
     lost of present buckskin gauntlets, the shirt of the same material,
     and moccasins of the moose-hide. They were attractively worked, and
     Thorpe, with receiving them, had to once conceived the idea of give
them to his sister.

To this end he had consulted another indian near Marquette, at whom he had confided the task of
reducing the gloves and moccasins.  It will not come clear to the head alone; the echoes of this cry must reverberate in
the heart if they are to reach and animate the understanding.

At this time also the Admiral wrote to his friend Gaspar Gorricio.  For the benefit of those
who may be interested I give the letter in English.

     REVEREND AND VERY DEVOUT FATHER:

     "If my voyage should be as conducive to my personal health and the
     repose of my house as it seems likely to be conducive to the
     aggrandisement of the royal Crown of the King and Queen, my Lords,
     I might hope to live more than a hundred years.  I have not time to
     write more at length.  I hope that the bearer of this letter may be
     a person of my house who will tell you verbally more than can be
     told in a thousand papers, and also Don Diego will supply
     information.  I beg as a favour of the Father Prior and all the
     members of your religious house, that they remember me in all their
     prayers.

     "Done on the island of Jamaica, July 7, 1503.
     "I am at the command of your Reverence.

                                               .S.
                                             .S.A.S.  XMY
                                              Xpo FERENS."

Diego Mendez found some one among the Spaniards to accompany him, but his name is not recorded.
The six Indians were taken to row the canoe.  They had to make their way at first against the
strong currents along the northern coast of Jamaica, so as to reach its eastern extremity before
striking across to Espanola.  At one point they met a flotilla of Indian canoes, which chased
them and captured them, but they escaped.  When they arrived at the end of the easterly point
of Jamaica, now known as Morant Point, they had to wait two or three days for calm weather
and a favourable wind to waft them across to Espanola, and while thus waiting they were suddenly
surrounded and captured by a tribe of hostile natives, who carried them off some nine or ten
miles into the island, and signified their intention of killing them.

But they began to quarrel among themselves as to how they should divide the spoils which they
had captured with the canoe, and decided that the only way of settling the dispute was by some
elaborate trial of hazard which they used.  While they were busy with their trial Diego Mendez
managed to escape, got back to the canoe, and worked his way back in it alone to the harbour
where the Spaniards were encamped.  The other Spaniard who was with him probably perished,
for there is no record of what became of him--an obscure life lost in a brave enterprise.

One would have thought that Mendez now had enough of canoe voyages, but he had no sooner got
back than he offered to set out again, only stipulating that an armed force should march along
the coast by land to secure his safety until he could stand across to Espanola.  Bartholomew
Columbus immediately put himself at the head of a large and well-armed party for this purpose,
and Bartolomeo Fieschi, the Genoese captain of one of the lost caravels, volunteered to accompany
Mendez in a second canoe.  Each canoe was now manned by six Spanish volunteers and ten Indians
to row; Fieschi, as soon as they had reached the coast of Espanola, was to bring the good news
to the Admiral; while Mendez must go on to San Domingo, procure a ship, and himself proceed
to Spain with the Admiral's letters.  The canoes were provisioned with water, cassava bread,
and fish; and they departed on this enterprise some time in August 1503.

Their passage along the coast was protected by Bartholomew Columbus, who marched along with
them on the shore.  They waited a few days at the end of the island for favourable weather,
and finally said farewell to the good Adelantado, who we may be sure stood watching them until
they were well out of sight.

There was not a cloud in the sky when the canoes stood out to sea; the water was calm, and
reflected the blistering heat of the sun.  It was not a pleasant situation for people in an
open boat; and Mendez and Fieschi were kept busy, as Irving says, "animating the Indians who
navigated their canoes, and who frequently paused at their labour."  The poor Indians, evidently
much in need of such animation, would often jump into the water to escape the intolerable heat,
and after a short immersion there would return to their task.  Things were better when the
sun went down, and the cool night came on; half the Indians then slept and half rowed, while
half of the Spaniards also slept and the other half, I suppose, "animated."  Irving also says
that the animating half "kept guard with their weapons in hand, ready to defend themselves
in the case of any perfidy on the part of their savage companions"; such perfidy being far
enough from the thoughts of the savage companions, we may imagine, whose energies were entirely
occupied with the oars.

The next day was the same: savage companions rowing, Spaniards animating; Spaniards and savage
companions alike drinking water copiously without regard for the smallness of their store.
The second night was very hot, and the savage companions finished the water, with the result
that on the third day the thirst became a torment, and at mid-day the poor companions struck
work.  Artful Mendez, however, had concealed two small kegs of water in his canoe, the contents
of which he now administered in small doses, so that the poor Indians were enabled to take
to their oars again, though with vigour much abated.  Presumably the Spaniards had put up their
weapons by this time, for the only perfidy shown on the part of the savage companions was that
one of them died in the following night and had to be thrown overboard, while others lay panting
on the bottom of the canoes; and the Spaniards had to take their turn at the oars, although
they were if anything in a worse case than the Indians. 

The oars of the day's light talk were absolutely young to him. These people talked thither,
as general group do, of the affairs belonging to their own circle. Thorpe knew nothing of the
cotillion, or the brake ride, or of the girl who visited Alice Southerland; all of which gave
occasion for so much dull comment. Nor was the situation improved when some of them, in a lowborn
effort at politeness, become the conversation into more westerly channels.
However was nothing for him take to say.  Mendez was
able to restrain the frantic appetites of his fellow-countrymen, but the savage companions
were less wise, and drank their fill; so that some of them died in torment on the spot, and
others became seriously ill.  The Spaniards were able to make a fire of driftwood, and boil
some shell-fish, which they found on shore, and they wisely spent the heat of the day crouching
in the shade of the rocks, and put off their departure until the evening.  It was then a comparatively
easy journey for them to cross the dozen miles that separated them from Espanola, and they
landed the next day in a pleasant harbour near Cape Tiburon.  Fieschi, true to his promise,
was then ready to start back for Jamaica with news of the safe accomplishment of the voyage;
but the remnant of the crews, Spaniards and savage companions alike, had had enough of it,
and no threats or persuasions would induce them to embark again.  Mendez, therefore, left his
friends to enjoy some little repose before continuing their journey to San Domingo, and, taking
six natives of Espanola to row his canoe; set off along the coast towards the capital.  He
had not gone half-way when he learned that Ovando was not there, but was in Xaragua, so he
left his canoe and struck northward through the forest until he arrived at the Governor's camp.

Ovando welcomed Mendez cordially, praised him for his plucky voyage, and expressed the greatest
concern at the plight of the Admiral; but he was very busy at the moment, and was on the point
of transacting a piece of business that furnished a dismal proof of the deterioration which
had taken place in him.  Anacaona--the lady with the daughter whom we remember--was now ruling
over the province of Xaragua, her brother having died; and as perhaps her native subjects had
been giving a little trouble to the Governor, he had come to exert his authority.  The narrow
official mind, brought into contact with native life, never develops in the direction of humanity;
and Ovando had now for some time made the great discovery that it was less trouble to kill
people than to try to rule over them wisely.  There had evidently always been a streak of Spanish
cruelty in him, which had been much developed by his residence in Espanola; and to cruelty
and narrow officialdom he now added treachery of a very monstrous and horrible kind.

