THE MYSTERY OF EDWIN DROOD

CHAPTER I--THE DAWN

An ancient English Cathedral Tower?  How can the ancient English Cathedral tower be here! 
The well-known massive gray square tower of its old Cathedral?  How can that be here!  There
is no spike of rusty iron in the air, between the eye and it, from any point of the real prospect.
What is the spike that intervenes, and who has set it up?  Maybe it is set up by the Sultan's
orders for the impaling of a horde of Turkish robbers, one by one.  It is so, for cymbals clash,
and the Sultan goes by to his palace in long procession.  Ten thousand scimitars flash in the
sunlight, and thrice ten thousand dancing-girls strew flowers.  Then, follow white elephants
caparisoned in countless gorgeous colours, and infinite in number and attendants.  Still the
Cathedral Tower rises in the background, where it cannot be, and still no writhing figure is
on the grim spike.  Stay!  Is the spike so low a thing as the rusty spike on the top of a post
of an old bedstead that has tumbled all awry?  Some vague period of drowsy laughter must be
devoted to the consideration of this possibility.

Shaking from head to foot, the man whose scattered consciousness has thus fantastically pieced
itself together, at length rises, supports his trembling frame upon his arms, and looks around.
He is in the meanest and closest of small rooms.  Through the ragged window-curtain, the light
of early day steals in from a miserable court.  He lies, dressed, across a large unseemly bed,
upon a bedstead that has indeed given way under the weight upon it. Lying, also dressed and
also across the bed, not longwise, are a Chinaman, a Lascar, and a haggard woman.  The two
first are in a sleep or stupor; the last is blowing at a kind of pipe, to kindle it.  And as
she blows, and shading it with her lean hand, concentrates its red spark of light, it serves
in the dim morning as a lamp to show him what he sees of her.

'Another?' says this woman, in a querulous, rattling whisper. 'Have another?'

He looks about him, with his hand to his forehead.

'Ye've smoked as many as five since ye come in at midnight,' the woman goes on, as she chronically
complains.  'Poor me, poor me, my head is so bad.  Them two come in after ye.  Ah, poor me,
the business is slack, is slack!  Few Chinamen about the Docks, and fewer Lascars, and no ships
coming in, these say!  Here's another ready for ye, deary.  Ye'll remember like a good soul,
won't ye, that the market price is dreffle high just now?  More nor three shillings and sixpence
for a thimbleful!  And ye'll remember that nobody but me (and Jack Chinaman t'other side the
court; but he can't do it as well as me) has the true secret of mixing it?  Ye'll pay up accordingly,
deary, won't ye?'

She blows at the pipe as she speaks, and, occasionally bubbling at it, inhales much of its
contents.

'O me, O me, my lungs is weak, my lungs is bad!  It's nearly ready for ye, deary.  Ah, poor
me, poor me, my poor hand shakes like to drop off!  I see ye coming-to, and I ses to my poor
self, "I'll have another ready for him, and he'll bear in mind the market price of opium, and
pay according."  O my poor head!  I makes my pipes of old penny ink-bottles, ye see, deary--this
is one--and I fits-in a mouthpiece, this way, and I takes my mixter out of this thimble with
this little horn spoon; and so I fills, deary.  Ah, my poor nerves!  I got Heavens-hard drunk
for sixteen year afore I took to this; but this don't hurt me, not to speak of.  And it takes
away the hunger as well as wittles, deary.'

She hands him the nearly-emptied pipe, and sinks back, turning over on her face.

He rises unsteadily from the bed, lays the pipe upon the hearth- stone, draws back the ragged
curtain, and looks with repugnance at his three companions.  He notices that the woman has
opium-smoked herself into a strange likeness of the Chinaman.  His form of cheek, eye, and
temple, and his colour, are repeated in her.  Said Chinaman convulsively wrestles with one
of his many Gods or Devils, perhaps, and snarls horribly.  The Lascar laughs and dribbles at
the mouth.  The hostess is still.

'What visions can SHE have?' the waking man muses, as he turns her face towards him, and stands
looking down at it.  'Visions of many butchers' shops, and public-houses, and much credit?
Of an increase of hideous customers, and this horrible bedstead set upright again, and this
horrible court swept clean?  What can she rise to, under any quantity of opium, higher than
that!--Eh?'

He bends down his ear, to listen to her mutterings.

'Unintelligible!'

As he watches the spasmodic shoots and darts that break out of her face and limbs, like fitful
lightning out of a dark sky, some contagion in them seizes upon him:  insomuch that he has
to withdraw himself to a lean arm-chair by the hearth--placed there, perhaps, for such emergencies--and
to sit in it, holding tight, until he has got the better of this unclean spirit of imitation.

Then he comes back, pounces on the Chinaman, and seizing him with both hands by the throat,
turns him violently on the bed.  The Chinaman clutches the aggressive hands, resists, gasps,
and protests.

'What do you say?'

A watchful pause.

'Unintelligible!'

Slowly loosening his grasp as he listens to the incoherent jargon with an attentive frown,
he turns to the Lascar and fairly drags him forth upon the floor.  As he falls, the Lascar
starts into a half-risen attitude, glares with his eyes, lashes about him fiercely with his
arms, and draws a phantom knife.  It then becomes apparent that the woman has taken possession
of this knife, for safety's sake; for, she too starting up, and restraining and expostulating
with him, the knife is visible in her dress, not in his, when they drowsily drop back, side
by side.

There has been chattering and clattering enough between them, but to no purpose.  When any
distinct word has been flung into the air, it has had no sense or sequence.  Wherefore 'unintelligible!'
is again the comment of the watcher, made with some reassured nodding of his head, and a gloomy
smile.  He then lays certain silver money on the table, finds his hat, gropes his way down
the broken stairs, gives a good morning to some rat-ridden doorkeeper, in bed in a black hutch
beneath the stairs, and passes out.

CHAPTER II--A DEAN, AND A CHAPTER ALSO

Whosoever has observed that sedate and clerical bird, the rook, may perhaps have noticed that
when he wings his way homeward towards nightfall, in a sedate and clerical company, two rooks
will suddenly detach themselves from the rest, will retrace their flight for some distance,
and will there poise and linger; conveying to mere men the fancy that it is of some occult
importance to the body politic, that this artful couple should pretend to have renounced connection
with it.

Similarly, service being over in the old Cathedral with the square tower, and the choir scuffling
out again, and divers venerable persons of rook-like aspect dispersing, two of these latter
retrace their steps, and walk together in the echoing Close.

Not only is the day waning, but the year.  The low sun is fiery and yet cold behind the monastery
ruin, and the Virginia creeper on the Cathedral wall has showered half its deep-red leaves
down on the pavement.  There has been rain this afternoon, and a wintry shudder goes among
the little pools on the cracked, uneven flag-stones, and through the giant elm-trees as they
shed a gust of tears.  Their fallen leaves lie strewn thickly about.  Some of these leaves,
in a timid rush, seek sanctuary within the low arched Cathedral door; but two men coming out
resist them, and cast them forth again with their feet; this done, one of the two locks the
door with a goodly key, and the other flits away with a folio music-book.

'Mr. Jasper was that, Tope?'

'Yes, Mr. Dean.'

'He has stayed late.'

'Yes, Mr. Dean.  I have stayed for him, your Reverence.  He has been took a little poorly.'

'Say "taken," Tope--to the Dean,' the younger rook interposes in a low tone with this touch
of correction, as who should say:  'You may offer bad grammar to the laity, or the humbler
clergy, not to the Dean.'

Mr. Tope, Chief Verger and Showman, and accustomed to be high with excursion parties, declines
with a silent loftiness to perceive that any suggestion has been tendered to him.

'And when and how has Mr. Jasper been taken--for, as Mr. Crisparkle has remarked, it is better
to say taken--taken--' repeats the Dean; 'when and how has Mr. Jasper been Taken--'

'Taken, sir,' Tope deferentially murmurs.

'--Poorly, Tope?'

'Why, sir, Mr. Jasper was that breathed--'

'I wouldn't say "That breathed," Tope,' Mr. Crisparkle interposes with the same touch as before.
'Not English--to the Dean.'

'Breathed to that extent,' the Dean (not unflattered by this indirect homage) condescendingly
remarks, 'would be preferable.'

'Mr. Jasper's breathing was so remarkably short'--thus discreetly does Mr. Tope work his way
round the sunken rock--'when he came in, that it distressed him mightily to get his notes out:
which was perhaps the cause of his having a kind of fit on him after a little.  His memory
grew DAZED.'  Mr. Tope, with his eyes on the Reverend Mr. Crisparkle, shoots this word out,
as defying him to improve upon it:  'and a dimness and giddiness crept over him as strange
as ever I saw:  though he didn't seem to mind it particularly, himself.  However, a little
time and a little water brought him out of his DAZE.'  Mr. Tope repeats the word and its emphasis,
with the air of saying:  'As I HAVE made a success, I'll make it again.'

'And Mr. Jasper has gone home quite himself, has he?' asked the Dean.

'Your Reverence, he has gone home quite himself.  As the deep Cathedral-bell strikes the hour,
a ripple of wind goes through these at their distance, like a ripple of the solemn sound that
hums through tomb and tower, broken niche and defaced statue, in the pile close at hand.

'Is Mr. Jasper's nephew with him?' the Dean asks.

'No, sir,' replied the Verger, 'but expected.  There's his own solitary shadow betwixt his
two windows--the one looking this way, and the one looking down into the High Street--drawing
his own curtains now.'

'Well, well,' says the Dean, with a sprightly air of breaking up the little conference, 'I
hope Mr. Jasper's heart may not be too much set upon his nephew.  Our affections, however laudable,
in this transitory world, should never master us; we should guide them, guide them.  I find
I am not disagreeably reminded of my dinner, by hearing my dinner-bell.  Perhaps, Mr. Crisparkle,
you will, before going home, look in on Jasper?'

'Certainly, Mr. Dean.  And tell him that you had the kindness to desire to know how he was?'

'Ay; do so, do so.  Certainly.  Wished to know how he was.  By all means.  Wished to know how
he was.'

With a pleasant air of patronage, the Dean as nearly cocks his quaint hat as a Dean in good
spirits may, and directs his comely gaiters towards the ruddy dining-room of the snug old red-brick
house where he is at present, 'in residence' with Mrs. Dean and Miss Dean.

'Sorry to hear from Tope that you have not been well, Jasper.'

'O, it was nothing, nothing!'

'You look a little worn.'

'Do I?  O, I don't think so.  What is better, I don't feel so. Tope has made too much of it,
I suspect.  It's his trade to make the most of everything appertaining to the Cathedral, you know.'

'I may tell the Dean--I call expressly from the Dean--that you are all right again?'

The reply, with a slight smile, is:  'Certainly; with my respects and thanks to the Dean.'

'I'm glad to hear that you expect young Drood.'

'I expect the dear fellow every moment.'

'Ah!  He will do you more good than a doctor, Jasper.'

'More good than a dozen doctors.  For I love him dearly, and I don't love doctors, or doctors'
stuff.'

Mr. Jasper is a dark man of some six-and-twenty, with thick, lustrous, well-arranged black
hair and whiskers.  He looks older than he is, as dark men often do.  His voice is deep and
good, his face and figure are good, his manner is a little sombre.  His room is a little sombre,
and may have had its influence in forming his manner.  It is mostly in shadow.  Even when the
sun shines brilliantly, it seldom touches the grand piano in the recess, or the folio music-books
on the stand, or the book-shelves on the wall, or the unfinished picture of a blooming schoolgirl
hanging over the chimneypiece; her flowing brown hair tied with a blue riband, and her beauty
remarkable for a quite childish, almost babyish, touch of saucy discontent, comically conscious
of itself.  "Tell me, shep-herds, te-e-ell me; tell me-e-e, have you seen (have you seen, have
you seen, have you seen) my-y-y Flo- o-ora-a pass this way!"'  Melodiously good Minor Canon
the Reverend Septimus Crisparkle thus delivers himself, in musical rhythm, as he withdraws
his amiable face from the doorway and conveys it down- stairs.

Sounds of recognition and greeting pass between the Reverend Septimus and somebody else, at
the stair-foot.  Mr. Jasper listens, starts from his chair, and catches a young fellow in his
arms, exclaiming:

'My dear Edwin!'

'My dear Jack!  So glad to see you!'

'Get off your greatcoat, bright boy, and sit down here in your own corner.  Your feet are not
wet?  Pull your boots off.  Do pull your boots off.'

'My dear Jack, I am as dry as a bone.  Don't moddley-coddley, there's a good fellow.  I like
anything better than being moddley- coddleyed.'

With the check upon him of being unsympathetically restrained in a genial outburst of enthusiasm,
Mr. Jasper stands still, and looks on intently at the young fellow, divesting himself of his
outward coat, hat, gloves, and so forth.  Once for all, a look of intentness and intensity--a
look of hungry, exacting, watchful, and yet devoted affection--is always, now and ever afterwards,
on the Jasper face whenever the Jasper face is addressed in this direction.  And whenever it
is so addressed, it is never, on this occasion or on any other, dividedly addressed; it is
always concentrated.

'Now I am right, and now I'll take my corner, Jack.  Any dinner, Jack?'

Mr. Jasper opens a door at the upper end of the room, and discloses a small inner room pleasantly
lighted and prepared, wherein a comely dame is in the act of setting dishes on table.

'What a jolly old Jack it is!' cries the young fellow, with a clap of his hands.  'Look here,
Jack; tell me; whose birthday is it?'

'Not yours, I know,' Mr. Jasper answers, pausing to consider.

'Not mine, you know?  No; not mine, I know!  Pussy's!'

Fixed as the look the young fellow meets, is, there is yet in it some strange power of suddenly
including the sketch over the chimneypiece.

'Pussy's, Jack!  We must drink Many happy returns to her.  Come, uncle; take your dutiful and
sharp-set nephew in to dinner.'

As the boy (for he is little more) lays a hand on Jasper's shoulder, Jasper cordially and gaily
lays a hand on HIS shoulder, and so Marseillaise-wise they go in to dinner.

'And, Lord! here's Mrs. Tope!' cries the boy.  'Lovelier than ever!'

'Never you mind me, Master Edwin,' retorts the Verger's wife; 'I can take care of myself.'

'You can't.  You're much too handsome.  Give me a kiss because it's Pussy's birthday.'

'I'd Pussy you, young man, if I was Pussy, as you call her,' Mrs. Tope blushingly retorts,
after being saluted.  'Your uncle's too much wrapt up in you, that's where it is.  He makes
so much of you, that it's my opinion you think you've only to call your Pussys by the dozen,
to make 'em come.'

'You forget, Mrs. Tope,' Mr. Jasper interposes, taking his place at the table with a genial
smile, 'and so do you, Ned, that Uncle and Nephew are words prohibited here by common consent
and express agreement.  For what we are going to receive His holy name be praised!'

'Done like the Dean!  Witness, Edwin Drood!  Please to carve, Jack, for I can't.'

This sally ushers in the dinner.  Little to the present purpose, or to any purpose, is said,
while it is in course of being disposed of.  At length the cloth is drawn, and a dish of walnuts
and a decanter of rich-coloured sherry are placed upon the table.

'I say!  Tell me, Jack,' the young fellow then flows on:  'do you really and truly feel as
if the mention of our relationship divided us at all?  I don't.'

'Uncles as a rule, Ned, are so much older than their nephews,' is the reply, 'that I have that
feeling instinctively.'

'As a rule!  Ah, may-be!  But what is a difference in age of half- a-dozen years or so? And
some uncles, in large families, are even younger than their nephews.  By George, I wish it
was the case with us!'

'Why?'

'Because if it was, I'd take the lead with you, Jack, and be as wise as Begone, dull Care!
that turned a young man gray, and Begone, dull Care! that turned an old man to clay.--Halloa,
Jack! Don't drink.'

'Why not?'

'Asks why not, on Pussy's birthday, and no Happy returns proposed! Pussy, Jack, and many of
'em!  Happy returns, I mean.'

Laying an affectionate and laughing touch on the boy's extended hand, as if it were at once
his giddy head and his light heart, Mr. Jasper drinks the toast in silence.

'Hip, hip, hip, and nine times nine, and one to finish with, and all that, understood.  Hooray,
hooray, hooray!--And now, Jack, let's have a little talk about Pussy.  Two pairs of nut-crackers?
Pass me one, and take the other.'  Crack.  'How's Pussy getting on Jack?'

'With her music?  Fairly.'

'What a dreadfully conscientious fellow you are, Jack!  But I know, Lord bless you!  Inattentive,
isn't she?'

'She can learn anything, if she will.'

'IF she will!  Egad, that's it.  But if she won't?'

Crack!--on Mr. Jasper's part.

'How's she looking, Jack?'

Mr. Jasper's concentrated face again includes the portrait as he returns:  'Very like your
sketch indeed.'

'I AM a little proud of it,' says the young fellow, glancing up at the sketch with complacency,
and then shutting one eye, and taking a corrected prospect of it over a level bridge of nut-crackers
in the air:  'Not badly hit off from memory.  But I ought to have caught that expression pretty
well, for I have seen it often enough.'

Crack!--on Edwin Drood's part.

Crack!--on Mr. Jasper's part.

'In point of fact,' the former resumes, after some silent dipping among his fragments of walnut
with an air of pique, 'I see it whenever I go to see Pussy.  If I don't find it on her face,
I leave it there.--You know I do, Miss Scornful Pert.  Booh!'  With a twirl of the nut-crackers
at the portrait.

Crack! crack! crack.  Slowly, on Mr. Jasper's part.

Crack.  Sharply on the part of Edwin Drood.

Silence on both sides.

'Have you lost your tongue, Jack?'

'Have you found yours, Ned?'

'No, but really;--isn't it, you know, after all--'

Mr. Jasper lifts his dark eyebrows inquiringly.

'Isn't it unsatisfactory to be cut off from choice in such a matter?  There, Jack!  I tell
you!  If I could choose, I would choose Pussy from all the pretty girls in the world.'

'But you have not got to choose.'

'That's what I complain of.  My dead and gone father and Pussy's dead and gone father must
needs marry us together by anticipation. Why the--Devil, I was going to say, if it had been
respectful to their memory--couldn't they leave us alone?'

'Tut, tut, dear boy,' Mr. Jasper remonstrates, in a tone of gentle deprecation.

'Tut, tut?  Yes, Jack, it's all very well for YOU.  YOU can take it easily.  YOUR life is not
laid down to scale, and lined and dotted out for you, like a surveyor's plan.  YOU have no
uncomfortable suspicion that you are forced upon anybody, nor has anybody an uncomfortable
suspicion that she is forced upon you, or that you are forced upon her.  YOU can choose for
yourself.  Life, for YOU, is a plum with the natural bloom on; it hasn't been over-carefully
wiped off for YOU--'

'Don't stop, dear fellow.  Go on.'

'Can I anyhow have hurt your feelings, Jack?'

'How can you have hurt my feelings?'

'Good Heaven, Jack, you look frightfully ill!  There's a strange film come over your eyes.'

Mr. Jasper, with a forced smile, stretches out his right hand, as if at once to disarm apprehension
and gain time to get better. After a while he says faintly:

'I have been taking opium for a pain--an agony--that sometimes overcomes me.  The effects of
the medicine steal over me like a blight or a cloud, and pass.  You see them in the act of
passing; they will be gone directly.  Look away from me.  They will go all the sooner.'

With a scared face the younger man complies by casting his eyes downward at the ashes on the
hearth.  Not relaxing his own gaze on the fire, but rather strengthening it with a fierce,
firm grip upon his elbow-chair, the elder sits for a few moments rigid, and then, with thick
drops standing on his forehead, and a sharp catch of his breath, becomes as he was before.
On his so subsiding in his chair, his nephew gently and assiduously tends him while he quite
recovers. 

Cats education.

  
  Like, swift and clean Must be kittens.

Rosaurus has now been brought up to a rather lovable kittens, so he showed more every day its
large systems to the real case of a Hofkater Hofmanieren so necessary. He acquired more and more
to the tone of the fashionable world, and although not the little
princess tried hard to contribute to his education by making it really
just screwed up, so acquired nevertheless Mlle Gogo great service
to his education.

One day Rosaurus just put on the Sammtsessel, the princess in the should take lesson and seemed
very sweet to sleep because he snored loudly. Now when the princess wanted to push him off the
chair down so quietly and gently as possible by they gave him good words, and let the evil
beast him feel his claws and four bloody Strip ran on the white arm down. As Mlle Gogo took
but a small penis and Rosaurus suggested that rather rough on the back, he screamed and fled under
the couch. But He was a clever animal, and it has never again experienced that he denies his Sammetpfötchen
would have if the princess gave herself to him. - Yes, he never again put on their Sammetsessel,
but on a footstool at her feet, where Rosaurus did not change, while teaching had, indeed at times
he heard attentively, that would be my will, he understood everything What did the teachers.
Only with the piano lessons, it was scary to him courage and we often saw that he zuhielt with his
little paws, the ears when the princess was playing. Perhaps there were some wrong notes,
which hurt the cats for concerts so formed ear . Did Or Rosaurus loved not at all that was too
loud? Yes! when the Princess Janissary music struck up, as Rosaurus often began to mew and had taken
out of the room be. Another bad habit had to take the young boy. He loved actually includes
to climb everything, and there were no trees in the royal room, nor walls nor roof, to satisfy
his innate instinct, he jumped like on the tables. Since he joined in bold Throw down some pretty
Nipp; him it was all the same, whether a beautiful golden cup, a precious crystal, or other work
of art was destroyed, as had Mlle Gogos Rutherford only teach him the proper appreciation of
art. Once he was on the princess Desk jumped, had only played with their feathers, then a precious leather-bound
album corroded, and finally overturned nor Tintefaß. That was a fine mess! Poor Rosaurus had huge
pay.

Rosaurus had a great aversion to the penis, and we believe that it is not merely for the physical
pain was sake, but also because of his honor, he did not like Suffering that his hair fell
in disorder, he had the principle that when you are in good company live, one must also be dressed decently.
The cat care now to make toilet by they lick. The pink Züngelchen them serves as a clothes brush,
your own saliva as Beauty water. - Rosaurus had now found a place where it will do no harm
could, because that was the window sill. There he sat a lot and licked. His coat shone as Schillertaffet;
the tail he threw on graceful way around the body, he looked out into the world, and all passers-by,
saw him sitting, stopped and said: - "Oh look pretty but the kittens to the Princess!"

But when once the two friends were invited back, they were delighted
their small Taufpathen to see him again and stroked all friendly,
not only Jenny, which still bore traces of his teeth and claws in
the face.

When she looked at him, she thought always, "This hideous beast, if I could affect him just
a little" Rosaurus liked her punish evil intention, for he went away and left no longer see themselves
all evening.

When the children have now been picked up, Jenny was the first that
went away, and when they umnehmen wanted her coat in the hall, behold,
there arose Rosaurus had laid on the same and fell as firm and sweet
that he does not even dreamed of a disorder.

"You ugly animal," Jenny said softly, "did because I know you at last,
thou shalt now for your Pay outrageous "and quickly, before someone
saw, and before Rosaurus to a cry for help Meow could remember, they
put it in the work bag and carried it away with him.

"This is quite good, she thought to herself while walking, that the
animal continued to come good manner; for since it is the little princess,
nothing can be more Ordinary played everything moves around the stupid
beast!

How I hate it! "

Jenny's path led over a bridge, "I'll Rosaurus throw into the water,"
she said to herself himself, "because it's over with him for ever!"

When the princess before her bedtime Rosaurus sought in vain, she thought: O he will certainly
be back to the forge up to the roof of his siblings, for they had by Hofmagd of the cat population
is one that has disturbed the chimney sweeper that evening had, as well as the two seriously wounded
kitten, and she did command the chimney sweepers, Rosaurus not return to their scare, and then they
lay down and comforted himself with the hope of seeing the next morning Rosaurus again. This
hope was not in Fulfillment go.

Chapter 6

  The children of poverty.
  
  Dry your tears hot From the pale face;
  Soon God will grant you comfort, He forgets you do not last forever.

In a narrow street in a small house lived a poor family. She lived in a low blackened back room.
Father, mother and children were dressed in rags. The father lay on a straw mattress, which served
as the family bed at night, he had all day Located in the fact that half-awake state, the enjoyment
of spirituous liquors, combined with inertia of the body and depression usually produce the
soul. Whether he could not work or wanted? who knows that the mother also worked, but rather sat
on a wooden bench and had a three-year-old daughter on her lap, which is just as dirty and
unkempt was as if they own another little girl of 8 years of cowering in the corner and wept;
Alas, she had the foot, because they had entered into a broken glass,
because the poor child had to always walk barefoot, because the parents
could not buy her shoes.

This little girl named Dorothy and was usually called Dorothy.

"I's hungry so much," complained Dorothy, "would not be my Böß foot, I would have you already
long since brought something home.

Wilhelm always needs more time to beg for something together. "

"How come only" asked the mother.

"Yes, he can never take a heart, to beg the people, because he always
pushes me in front; Maust it much better.

"

! Shut up, girl, "his father shouted," If someone listens, so - "

"I just wanted to that father and mother want to hear it," said Dorothy,
"I obey Wilhelm not, and I am always afraid that he was still himself,
and brings us all into disaster.

"

"We poor people," said the father, "just have to live as well as the rich, and if they give
us nothing, we take it. "

Dorte. I recently learned in school a little verse that I always want
to follow: "Thou shalt not lie and steal, and what you find conceal
it."

Mother. Here you will not be very rich!

Dorte. Yet I recently brought a whole dollars back home. O shone! Princess had it given to me,
as it was so cold in the winter and I wept bitterly, because I Sun hungry.

Mother. I know that you can never cry so much as if you're hungry.

Dorte.

So you send me so many times on an empty stomach to beg.

Father. Yes, the forces there, always with her tears, but with the
understanding of Wilhelm.

This is a wise head! it is going places.

Dorte. Up to the gallows! Sun recently said a fat man.

Mother. Who was the indecency that was subject to the telling of my William?

  Dorte. I do not know him, it was on Sunday.

Father. Where the weather boy brought home 12 pence.

Dorte. Yes! which he had earned with lies.

Mother. How so?

Dorte.

He had lined up on a street corner, where many people had to walk over; where he acted as if he
was crying and looking for something. Was now a compassionate over and asked what matter with him? he
complained that he had lost a penny, for which he for the sick mother Drug was intended to buy,
and now he will get shock when he got home. And many Temporary gave him a dime. Just as the
donor had steered away from that, began the story all over again.

Father. The flash boy!

Dorte. Yes, and how well he could cry! even when I'm hungry and begging with an empty stomach
must, I can not so good.

Mother. But you will always be a stupid girl.

Dorte. I would also like to arrive not as Wilhelm in that day.

Father. Now, how he came to that?

Dorte. A fat gentleman, who had already given him one time a penny was randomly same way back. Wilhelm
knew him, but not again and again began to the lost coin to cry and sob. Since the Lord gave
him a slap on the right and left and said: - "Maybe you saved from the gallows."

[Amusing pictures Rosaurus is stolen.]

They heard the front door here go in and Wilhelm came with a very
merry face.

He held something concealed under his coat pocket and when he had assured himself that no one
Foreign in the room was, he pulled out a bag of green velvet, heavy work.

The father got up at the sight of his camp, his mother moved the table
closer Dorothy and little Hannah gazed with curious eyes at the looted
objects in Hoping to see something out long rants from it.

Father and mother expected Money, the children food. Wilhelm said he had the bag a little girl from
Arm cut at the big bridge. "The wonder is," said he, "it has nothing noticed, also it was a little
dark. "

He opened the bag and out came - Rosaurus he seemed not to feel quite comfortable, prepared even to a
hostile attack to be, because he made a huge cat's back and began
to growl and blow. The children laughed.

"Well," the father, "said'd you can get something better.

"Fortunately, was found together with a handkerchief a five-penny
piece in the bag, and rummaged Wilhelm from some cakes and apples,
the he had stolen in the twilight of bakers and humps. - Man divided
among themselves such and consumed.

Rosaurus not felt at home in this environment, he was at the royal palace used, and he scorned
the Brodkrumen which Dorte offered him, and made a very philosophical and thoughtful face. Perhaps
he thought of his godfather promises of Bisquit and delicacy, as he broke into a piteous meow.

"What
shall we do with the cat, William?" The mother said, "you will us not unreasonable demand to
divide our coffee with her milk. Throw it out the window or set her to the door "

"The poor animal," said Dorothy, "it is certainly used to being fed
very well and is feel uneasy on the streets, we want to keep tomorrow
morning, then I'll carry it in an elegant house, where you shoot it
certain.

"

"No, no," said Wilhelm, "the cat is mine and stay here. I know what I mean by you begin. Tomorrow
we're back for bird shooting, I put them in the menagerie and sell
it as a roast for the big lion.

If I get anything for it as the free Admission. I see such a thing to like, especially the monkeys
- they can be legally sent learn to steal. Also gives it filled there pockets, achievable handkerchiefs,
unnoticed Work bag - in short, a good harvest for the poor and clever people. "

In this society brought Rosaurus the night, and slept in there womb
Sun gently, as in his cradle dolls.

  
  The next morning it was very soon
  alive, because it was the day
  the timber harvest and father and Mother went into the forest.

Both were known that they prefer fresh branches broke off, than with the old wooden contented;
this was their harvest from ever more abundant, than that of other poor people.

William and Dorothy should go to school, the latter washed and combed before the sister; then
she gave Rosaurus their milk and drank her coffee black. Wilhelm expanded but still long on his
straw sack.

"Do not you get up?" Said Dorothy, "it is nearly time for school." Slowly he rose, ate breakfast
and prepared to accompany the nurse. When she closed the door behind you had said there: "I am
glad that Jenny is now not quite alone, as usual."

"Who is with her?" Asked the brother.

"Now the cat."

"By Jove! I had completely forgotten, "he said, as he threw open the door one more time, he shouted
into the room.

"Hannah, if you touch her my kitten, you get beaten!" -

Jenny was a very bad kids, they had not been brought up to obey, and we need to ban it just something
they took a fancy to do so. As she so alone saw with kittens, she went to the same thing,
to caress it. Rosaurus could be the most fallen and purred, and then she took the kitten in his arms
and carried it around the room. - Then the girl said she wanted to
see something out the window, so it increased to a chair, he opened
the window and invited a kitten to put down on the cornice and the
to look at passers-by.

Rosaurus seemed to like it and took his philosophical position on
the hind legs , and wondered what he would do?

The window was very low, a small jump Rosaurus and was on the road. Perhaps he could then easily navigate
the city , And find the castle or at least to get a friend of the princess.

Rosaurus took this step very advisable, he made preparations, the inner window sill with to
exchange the external, - Jenny wanted to hate it and captured the fugitive at the Tail - but Rosaurus
struck his claws into the child's hands and throws - Was down he, after which he left in stretched
over the street.

Chapter 7

Further adventures of the young cat Rosaurus.

Who loves now Thierlein, Is also used to love people Who now plagues the Thierlein, When people
grieve once.

As Rosaurus had reached the end of the road, he stopped at a fast course to return to to get
breath, he sat on a stone deflector to the unknown streets and his own Better able to overlook.
Oh! he had fallen into a very strange world in which he could not get along. Strangers walked
past him without a glance at him to appreciate; oh! how unhappy and
felt Rosaurus count. - Suddenly, however, seemed to clarify his fate,
two well-dressed little girl came along, accompanied by their nurse.

They had great work bag and seemed to want to go to school. Rosaurus recognized Lisi and Amelie,
his two friends, and hoped the hour of his Salvation had come. He jumped down from the baffle
blocks and ran to the children to with an expressive cat's back and her clinging to Lisi sliding
between the legs. The children stood still.

"Oh! the cute kittens, "said Amelie," That looks just like the Rosaurus Princess. "

Lisi. How this would be but here? slumbers probably still in its cradle, or breakfast biscuit
and milk, while this poor little creature here seems to be pretty hungry.

Amelie. Could we take it yet, the cat looks at us like it wants to protect our , Implore it has
certainly lost its master and his home.

"Oh," Bonne said, "it is probably one of the neighboring houses, you will soon looking for and
we would commit a theft, if we wanted to take it with us.

"Lisi also thought that they could then bring a kitten impossible
to school, and suggested before to give the poor animals to eat something
and again after the end of this school Point to go over to take it
when it left still so lonely and unhappy should be.

The children crumbled According to this Decision, which approved the Bonne something Bisquit and
bread to a neat stone of the corner, the cat wished good appetite
and walked away from.

Since Rosaurus was really hungry and it was no means at their disposal, to his friends be seen
to give, by the cat's back-to understand language but not so clear appeared, he threw himself on
the greedy ago Bisquit by meticulously the bread chunks are allowed. - It should, however, before
he had finished the meal, to be disturbed; for he heard in the distance a terrible roar and
crash, and thought a moment, the whole world going down, his mind did not calm him when he the cause
of this Perceived noise. Namely, it was a monster rushed down the street, it was an animal? was
it something else? It had four bright eyes, eight legs, and yet also has four wheels, which
caused the huge noise. - Later Rosaurus learned well that there is a coach with two wheels
was, but then he was too inexperienced yes even in the world. As the monster to move on him,
he fled, he believed himself to be persecuted for the same coach Struck off, as he did, and so
he ran and ran because, until he fell into a side street, where dangerous enemy passed by. So
had Rosaurus in the wild escape, far away from the place where Amelia Lisi and thought to find
him again. Rosaurus should soon to get to know other hazards. -

A four-legged creature did in fact see at the far end of the road. Rosaurus thought the same, that
is the same thing a dog, although it in no way resembled the Joly,
it was certainly four times larger than Joly, had completely black
curly hair, long hanging Ears and small black eyes, which hervorglänzten
under thick tufts of hair.

When the poodle saw the Kartusch Rosaurus, he hesitated for a moment and put through a short
broken off his barking cat hostile sentiments of the day. Rosaurus was undecided about his Vertheidigungsplan.
Could he hope that his soft claws the big dog inspire awe, such as the Little Joly? Certainly
not! Appeared to him that is, the Flight to be the gerathenste. Oh, he did not know was how
fast to run cartridges! - Kartusch had great respect for the claws
of the cats, but no in front of their tail, and when he turned to
the latter saw it, he followed with a joyful bark the poor distressed
Animal.

Rosaurus be heard snuffling and growling, barking back his looming ever closer, more and more
space between him and his followers disappeared, and he already felt the hot breath the poodle
and believed to already feel its teeth - because he saw a tree -
still once he strained his waning powers, and jumped up - just a small
piece his tail was left in Kartusch's teeth, which did hurt though,
it was bleeding, but His precious life was saved.

Rosaurus looked scornfully smiling and puffing down on the furious barking Kartusch, who could
not be happy about it, that his Loot was taken from him. - Finally, cartridges were retrieved by
a whistle of his master.

"Oh that, but the whistle rather," sighed Rosaurus by licking his bleeding tail.

O what a calamity! this tail, his pride, his joy, this part of his body, which gives the cat
a resemblance to the comet of the sky, it was mutilated; Rosaurus was disgraced for ever! He
gave himself entirely to his pain and broke into loud complaints
from.

These complaints heard a merry band of boys who had just arrived from school. This is the moment
where care to be the most insolent children.

They took stones and threw screaming about the poor animal. Rosaurus fled higher and higher
into the thickest branches of the Tree: he retired behind the tangled branches and tried to
protect against the litter material, which struck on all sides around him, either by flying
or bounced off the protective branches. A bold boy decided to climb
the tree to climb, and all rejoiced over this decision, and the shower
of stones was looked over and the youth curious and lively participation
by the climber; Rosaurus THEREFORE had a new threat to fear. The boy
had to keep climbing to the internal tree branches, where Rosaurus
of the stones were driven forth, so that the latter was obliged to
resort to site leave and seek out the very tips of the highest branches.
Rosaurus was very easy it was the thinnest branch moose, the birds
fled terrified from the tops of the tree by she uttered an anxious
Beep Beep, and Rosaurus felt at that moment some Appetite for the
game bird, but he had to suppress these thoughts because of the criminal
own risk, which actually increased by the minute, for when the boy
on the tree Rosaurus could not even pack up, he seized the branch
on the very tips of the poor distressed animal sat and shook the same
so strong that he no longer hold out could. Rosaurus fell from the
dizzy height down with a loud cry of joy of school youth.

Any other
animal would have broken unbeflügelte disputed the neck, but the cats
have the great ability to reach always on their feet to the ground,
and that was even now the case with Rosaurus. - His feet were bruised
and had indeed the rest and care but they have under this bloodthirsty
environment he could not; needed on soft bed - He had to take flight
and run faster with a new shower of stones like this. - As at last
he thought himself safe, he felt himself seized by a small but powerful
hand and heard a familiar voice. "You are mine," and Rosaurus stuck
under his coat.

It was none other than William, who came home from
school and, in the hope that the lion two roasts, ie to bring two
kittens, all the persecution of the poor animals had passed. 

There
was however great spectacle at home, when William discovered Rosaurus
evasion and poor in the jaded, mutilated kitten saw his property.
Jenny was scolded by him, beaten and gekneipt until Dorothy came to
her aid.

Wilhelm, however, the afternoon saw a lot different than
in the morning because he had carefully washed and combed, clothed
a well-patched jacket Sunday, the faded tight pants drawn, tied the
stockings in the air and blackened the shoes. "Now," he said, "I I
am a smart person and I think the lion would verspeißen me if he could,
and I 'm quite suitable for him to inspire appetite. "Rosaurus has
now been put into the pocket and so he went to the bird shooting.

We
just moved the large wooden bird with music and gun shots up. It was
a Eagle with two heads. Crowns, scepter and orb were gilded. It was
quite Rosaurus sinister in the crowd, because William was always where
it was thickest and for good Reasons.

Many booths had been set up
with sights. Since there were wax figures, panoramas, to see acrobats,
jugglers and puppets, mostly there were food stands, which the most
delicious morsel had set up. Since hissed and steamed sausages, there
were Cakes, pies, fruit; Rosaurus felt great appetite and still others
felt such.  All the girls say:  Serve him right,
and hope it hurt him, and wish he had been quite choked.'

The two youthful figures, side by side, but not now arm-in-arm, wander discontentedly about
the old Close; and each sometimes stops and slowly imprints a deeper footstep in the fallen leaves.

'Well!' says Edwin, after a lengthy silence.  'According to custom. We can't get on, Rosa.'

Rosa tosses her head, and says she don't want to get on.

'That's a pretty sentiment, Rosa, considering.'

'Considering what?'

'If I say what, you'll go wrong again.'

'YOU'LL go wrong, you mean, Eddy.  Don't be ungenerous.'

'Ungenerous!  I like that!'

'Then I DON'T like that, and so I tell you plainly,' Rosa pouts.

'Now, Rosa, I put it to you.  Who disparaged my profession, my destination--'

'You are not going to be buried in the Pyramids, I hope?' she interrupts, arching her delicate
eyebrows.  'You never said you were.  If you are, why haven't you mentioned it to me?  I can't
find out your plans by instinct.'

'Now, Rosa, you know very well what I mean, my dear.'

'Well then, why did you begin with your detestable red-nosed giantesses?  And she would, she
would, she would, she would, she WOULD powder it!' cries Rosa, in a little burst of comical
contradictory spleen.

'Somehow or other, I never can come right in these discussions,' says Edwin, sighing and becoming
resigned.

'How is it possible, sir, that you ever can come right when you're always wrong?  And as to
Belzoni, I suppose he's dead;--I'm sure I hope he is--and how can his legs or his chokes concern
you?'

'It is nearly time for your return, Rosa.  We have not had a very happy walk, have we?'

'A happy walk?  A detestably unhappy walk, sir.  If I go up-stairs the moment I get in and
cry till I can't take my dancing lesson, you are responsible, mind!'

'Let us be friends, Rosa.'

'Ah!' cries Rosa, shaking her head and bursting into real tears, 'I wish we COULD be friends!
It's because we can't be friends, that we try one another so.  I am a young little thing, Eddy,
to have an old heartache; but I really, really have, sometimes.  Don't be angry.  I know you
have one yourself too often.  We should both of us have done better, if What is to be had been
left What might have been.  I am quite a little serious thing now, and not teasing you. Let
each of us forbear, this one time, on our own account, and on the other's!'

Disarmed by this glimpse of a woman's nature in the spoilt child, though for an instant disposed
to resent it as seeming to involve the enforced infliction of himself upon her, Edwin Drood
stands watching her as she childishly cries and sobs, with both hands to the handkerchief at
her eyes, and then--she becoming more composed, and indeed beginning in her young inconstancy
to laugh at herself for having been so moved--leads her to a seat hard by, under the elm-trees.

'One clear word of understanding, Pussy dear.  I am not clever out of my own line--now I come
to think of it, I don't know that I am particularly clever in it--but I want to do right. 
There is not-- there may be--I really don't see my way to what I want to say, but I must say
it before we part--there is not any other young--'

'O no, Eddy!  It's generous of you to ask me; but no, no, no!'

They have come very near to the Cathedral windows, and at this moment the organ and the choir
sound out sublimely.  As they sit listening to the solemn swell, the confidence of last night
rises in young Edwin Drood's mind, and he thinks how unlike this music is to that discordance.

'I fancy I can distinguish Jack's voice,' is his remark in a low tone in connection with the
train of thought.

'Take me back at once, please,' urges his Affianced, quickly laying her light hand upon his
wrist.  'They will all be coming out directly; let us get away.  O, what a resounding chord!
But don't let us stop to listen to it; let us get away!'

Her hurry is over as soon as they have passed out of the Close. They go arm-in-arm now, gravely
and deliberately enough, along the old High-street, to the Nuns' House.  At the gate, the street
being within sight empty, Edwin bends down his face to Rosebud's.

She remonstrates, laughing, and is a childish schoolgirl again.

'Eddy, no!  I'm too sticky to be kissed.  But give me your hand, and I'll blow a kiss into that.'

He does so.  She breathes a light breath into it and asks, retaining it and looking into it:-

'Now say, what do you see?'

'See, Rosa?'

'Why, I thought you Egyptian boys could look into a hand and see all sorts of phantoms.

CHAPTER IV--MR. SAPSEA

Accepting the Jackass as the type of self-sufficient stupidity and conceit--a custom, perhaps,
like some few other customs, more conventional than fair--then the purest jackass in Cloisterham
is Mr. Thomas Sapsea, Auctioneer.

Mr. Sapsea 'dresses at' the Dean; has been bowed to for the Dean, in mistake; has even been
spoken to in the street as My Lord, under the impression that he was the Bishop come down unexpectedly,
without his chaplain.  Mr. Sapsea is very proud of this, and of his voice, and of his style.
He has even (in selling landed property) tried the experiment of slightly intoning in his pulpit,
to make himself more like what he takes to be the genuine ecclesiastical article.  So, in ending
a Sale by Public Auction, Mr. Sapsea finishes off with an air of bestowing a benediction on
the assembled brokers, which leaves the real Dean--a modest and worthy gentleman--far behind.

Mr. Sapsea has many admirers; indeed, the proposition is carried by a large local majority,
even including non-believers in his wisdom, that he is a credit to Cloisterham.  He possesses
the great qualities of being portentous and dull, and of having a roll in his speech, and another
roll in his gait; not to mention a certain gravely flowing action with his hands, as if he
were presently going to Confirm the individual with whom he holds discourse.  Much nearer sixty
years of age than fifty, with a flowing outline of stomach, and horizontal creases in his waistcoat;
reputed to be rich; voting at elections in the strictly respectable interest; morally satisfied
that nothing but he himself has grown since he was a baby; how can dunder-headed Mr. Sapsea
be otherwise than a credit to Cloisterham, and society?  Over the doorway is a wooden effigy,
about half life-size, representing Mr. Sapsea's father, in a curly wig and toga, in the act
of selling.  The chastity of the idea, and the natural appearance of the little finger, hammer,
and pulpit, have been much admired.

Mr. Sapsea sits in his dull ground-floor sitting-room, giving first on his paved back yard;
and then on his railed-off garden.  Mr. Sapsea has a bottle of port wine on a table before
the fire--the fire is an early luxury, but pleasant on the cool, chilly autumn evening--and
is characteristically attended by his portrait, his eight-day clock, and his weather-glass.
Characteristically, because he would uphold himself against mankind, his weather-glass against
weather, and his clock against time.

By Mr. Sapsea's side on the table are a writing-desk and writing materials.  Glancing at a
scrap of manuscript, Mr. Sapsea reads it to himself with a lofty air, and then, slowly pacing
the room with his thumbs in the arm-holes of his waistcoat, repeats it from memory:  so internally,
though with much dignity, that the word 'Ethelinda' is alone audible.

There are three clean wineglasses in a tray on the table.  His serving-maid entering, and announcing
'Mr. Jasper is come, sir,' Mr. Sapsea waves 'Admit him,' and draws two wineglasses from the
rank, as being claimed.

'Glad to see you, sir.  I congratulate myself on having the honour of receiving you here for
the first time.'  Mr. Sapsea does the honours of his house in this wise.

'You are very good.  The honour is mine and the self-congratulation is mine.'

'You are pleased to say so, sir.  But I do assure you that it is a satisfaction to me to receive
you in my humble home.  And that is what I would not say to everybody.'  Ineffable loftiness
on Mr. Sapsea's part accompanies these words, as leaving the sentence to be understood:  'You
will not easily believe that your society can be a satisfaction to a man like myself; nevertheless,
it is.'

'I have for some time desired to know you, Mr. Sapsea.'

'And I, sir, have long known you by reputation as a man of taste. Let me fill your glass. 
I will give you, sir,' says Mr. Sapsea, filling his own:

'When the French come over, May we meet them at Dover!'

This was a patriotic toast in Mr. Sapsea's infancy, and he is therefore fully convinced of
its being appropriate to any subsequent era.

'You can scarcely be ignorant, Mr. Sapsea,' observes Jasper, watching the auctioneer with a
smile as the latter stretches out his legs before the fire, 'that you know the world.'

'Well, sir,' is the chuckling reply, 'I think I know something of it; something of it.'

'Your reputation for that knowledge has always interested and surprised me, and made me wish
to know you.  For Cloisterham is a little place.  Cooped up in it myself, I know nothing beyond
it, and feel it to be a very little place.'

'If I have not gone to foreign countries, young man,' Mr. Sapsea begins, and then stops:- 'You
will excuse me calling you young man, Mr. Jasper?  You are much my junior.'

'By all means.'

'If I have not gone to foreign countries, young man, foreign countries have come to me.  They
have come to me in the way of business, and I have improved upon my opportunities.  Put it
that I take an inventory, or make a catalogue.  I see a French clock.  I never saw him before,
in my life, but I instantly lay my finger on him and say "Paris!"  I see some cups and saucers
of Chinese make, equally strangers to me personally:  I put my finger on them, then and there,
and I say "Pekin, Nankin, and Canton."  It is the same with Japan, with Egypt, and with bamboo
and sandalwood from the East Indies; I put my finger on them all.  I have put my finger on
the North Pole before now, and said "Spear of Esquimaux make, for half a pint of pale sherry!"'

'Really?  A very remarkable way, Mr. Sapsea, of acquiring a knowledge of men and things.'

'I mention it, sir,' Mr. Sapsea rejoins, with unspeakable complacency, 'because, as I say,
it don't do to boast of what you are; but show how you came to be it, and then you prove it.'

'Most interesting.  We were to speak of the late Mrs. Sapsea.'

'We were, sir.'  Mr. Sapsea fills both glasses, and takes the decanter into safe keeping again.
'Before I consult your opinion as a man of taste on this little trifle'--holding it up--'which
is BUT a trifle, and still has required some thought, sir, some little fever of the brow, I
ought perhaps to describe the character of the late Mrs. Sapsea, now dead three quarters of
a year.'

Mr. Jasper, in the act of yawning behind his wineglass, puts down that screen and calls up
a look of interest.  It is a little impaired in its expressiveness by his having a shut-up
gape still to dispose of, with watering eyes.

'Half a dozen years ago, or so,' Mr. Sapsea proceeds, 'when I had enlarged my mind up to--I
will not say to what it now is, for that might seem to aim at too much, but up to the pitch
of wanting another mind to be absorbed in it--I cast my eye about me for a nuptial partner.
Because, as I say, it is not good for man to be alone.'

Mr. Jasper appears to commit this original idea to memory.

'Miss Brobity at that time kept, I will not call it the rival establishment to the establishment
at the Nuns' House opposite, but I will call it the other parallel establishment down town.
The world did have it that she showed a passion for attending my sales, when they took place
on half holidays, or in vacation time.  The world did put it about, that she admired my style.
The world did notice that as time flowed by, my style became traceable in the dictation-exercises
of Miss Brobity's pupils.  Young man, a whisper even sprang up in obscure malignity, that one
ignorant and besotted Churl (a parent) so committed himself as to object to it by name. But
I do not believe this.  For is it likely that any human creature in his right senses would
so lay himself open to be pointed at, by what I call the finger of scorn?'

Mr. Jasper shakes his head.  Not in the least likely.  Mr. Sapsea, in a grandiloquent state
of absence of mind, seems to refill his visitor's glass, which is full already; and does really
refill his own, which is empty.

'Miss Brobity's Being, young man, was deeply imbued with homage to Mind.  She revered Mind,
when launched, or, as I say, precipitated, on an extensive knowledge of the world.  When I
made my proposal, she did me the honour to be so overshadowed with a species of Awe, as to
be able to articulate only the two words, "O Thou!" meaning myself.  Her limpid blue eyes were
fixed upon me, her semi- transparent hands were clasped together, pallor overspread her aquiline
features, and, though encouraged to proceed, she never did proceed a word further.  I disposed
of the parallel establishment by private contract, and we became as nearly one as could be
expected under the circumstances.  But she never could, and she never did, find a phrase satisfactory
to her perhaps-too-favourable estimate of my intellect.  To the very last (feeble action of
liver), she addressed me in the same unfinished terms.'

Mr. Jasper has closed his eyes as the auctioneer has deepened his voice.  He now abruptly opens
them, and says, in unison with the deepened voice 'Ah!'--rather as if stopping himself on the
extreme verge of adding--'men!'

'I have been since,' says Mr. Sapsea, with his legs stretched out, and solemnly enjoying himself
with the wine and the fire, 'what you behold me; I have been since a solitary mourner; I have
been since, as I say, wasting my evening conversation on the desert air.  I will not say that
I have reproached myself; but there have been times when I have asked myself the question:
What if her husband had been nearer on a level with her?  If she had not had to look up quite
so high, what might the stimulating action have been upon the liver?'

Mr. Jasper says, with an appearance of having fallen into dreadfully low spirits, that he 'supposes
it was to be.'

'We can only suppose so, sir,' Mr. Sapsea coincides.  'As I say, Man proposes, Heaven disposes.
It may or may not be putting the same thought in another form; but that is the way I put it.'

Mr. Jasper murmurs assent.

'And now, Mr. Jasper,' resumes the auctioneer, producing his scrap of manuscript, 'Mrs. Sapsea's
monument having had full time to settle and dry, let me take your opinion, as a man of taste,
on the inscription I have (as I before remarked, not without some little fever of the brow)
drawn out for it.  Take it in your own hand. The setting out of the lines requires to be followed
with the eye, as well as the contents with the mind.'

Mr. Jasper complying, sees and reads as follows:

ETHELINDA, Reverential Wife of MR. THOMAS SAPSEA, AUCTIONEER, VALUER, ESTATE AGENT, &c., OF
THIS CITY. Whose Knowledge of the World, Though somewhat extensive, Never brought him acquainted
with A SPIRIT More capable of LOOKING UP TO HIM. STRANGER, PAUSE And ask thyself the Question,
CANST THOU DO LIKEWISE? If Not, WITH A BLUSH RETIRE.

Mr. Sapsea having risen and stationed himself with his back to the fire, for the purpose of
observing the effect of these lines on the countenance of a man of taste, consequently has
his face towards the door, when his serving-maid, again appearing, announces, 'Durdles is come,
sir!'  He promptly draws forth and fills the third wineglass, as being now claimed, and replies,
'Show Durdles in.'

'Admirable!' quoth Mr. Jasper, handing back the paper.

'You approve, sir?'

'Impossible not to approve.  Striking, characteristic, and complete.'

The auctioneer inclines his head, as one accepting his due and giving a receipt; and invites
the entering Durdles to take off that glass of wine (handing the same), for it will warm him.

Durdles is a stonemason; chiefly in the gravestone, tomb, and monument way, and wholly of their
colour from head to foot.  No man is better known in Cloisterham.  He is the chartered libertine
of the place.  Fame trumpets him a wonderful workman--which, for aught that anybody knows,
he may be (as he never works); and a wonderful sot--which everybody knows he is.  With the
Cathedral crypt he is better acquainted than any living authority; it may even be than any
dead one.  It is said that the intimacy of this acquaintance began in his habitually resorting
to that secret place, to lock-out the Cloisterham boy-populace, and sleep off fumes of liquor:
he having ready access to the Cathedral, as contractor for rough repairs.  Be this as it may,
he does know much about it, and, in the demolition of impedimental fragments of wall, buttress,
and pavement, has seen strange sights.  He often speaks of himself in the third person; perhaps,
being a little misty as to his own identity, when he narrates; perhaps impartially adopting
the Cloisterham nomenclature in reference to a character of acknowledged distinction.

In a suit of coarse flannel with horn buttons, a yellow neckerchief with draggled ends, an
old hat more russet-coloured than black, and laced boots of the hue of his stony calling, Durdles
leads a hazy, gipsy sort of life, carrying his dinner about with him in a small bundle, and
sitting on all manner of tombstones to dine.  This dinner of Durdles's has become quite a Cloisterham
institution: not only because of his never appearing in public without it, but because of its
having been, on certain renowned occasions, taken into custody along with Durdles (as drunk
and incapable), and exhibited before the Bench of justices at the townhall.  These occasions,
however, have been few and far apart:  Durdles being as seldom drunk as sober.  For the rest,
he is an old bachelor, and he lives in a little antiquated hole of a house that was never finished:
supposed to be built, so far, of stones stolen from the city wall.  To this abode there is
an approach, ankle-deep in stone chips, resembling a petrified grove of tombstones, urns, draperies,
and broken columns, in all stages of sculpture.  Herein two journeymen incessantly chip, while
other two journeymen, who face each other, incessantly saw stone; dipping as regularly in and
out of their sheltering sentry-boxes, as if they were mechanical figures emblematical of Time
and Death.

To Durdles, when he had consumed his glass of port, Mr. Sapsea intrusts that precious effort
of his Muse.  Durdles unfeelingly takes out his two-foot rule, and measures the lines calmly,
alloying them with stone-grit.

'This is for the monument, is it, Mr. Sapsea?'

'The Inscription.  Yes.'  Mr. Sapsea waits for its effect on a common mind.

'It'll come in to a eighth of a inch,' says Durdles.  'Your servant, Mr. Jasper.  Hope I see
you well.'

'How are you Durdles?'

'I've got a touch of the Tombatism on me, Mr. Jasper, but that I must expect.'

'You mean the Rheumatism,' says Sapsea, in a sharp tone.  (He is nettled by having his composition
so mechanically received.)

'No, I don't.  I mean, Mr. Sapsea, the Tombatism.  It's another sort from Rheumatism.  Mr.
Jasper knows what Durdles means.  You get among them Tombs afore it's well light on a winter
morning, and keep on, as the Catechism says, a-walking in the same all the days of your life,
and YOU'LL know what Durdles means.'

'It is a bitter cold place,' Mr. Jasper assents, with an antipathetic shiver.

'And if it's bitter cold for you, up in the chancel, with a lot of live breath smoking out
about you, what the bitterness is to Durdles, down in the crypt among the earthy damps there,
and the dead breath of the old 'uns,' returns that individual, 'Durdles leaves you to judge.--Is
this to be put in hand at once, Mr. Sapsea?'

Mr. Sapsea, with an Author's anxiety to rush into publication, replies that it cannot be out
of hand too soon.

'You had better let me have the key then,' says Durdles.

'Why, man, it is not to be put inside the monument!'

'Durdles knows where it's to be put, Mr. Sapsea; no man better. Ask 'ere a man in Cloisterham
whether Durdles knows his work.'

Mr. Sapsea rises, takes a key from a drawer, unlocks an iron safe let into the wall, and takes
from it another key.

'When Durdles puts a touch or a finish upon his work, no matter where, inside or outside, Durdles
likes to look at his work all round, and see that his work is a-doing him credit,' Durdles
explains, doggedly.

The key proffered him by the bereaved widower being a large one, he slips his two-foot rule
into a side-pocket of his flannel trousers made for it, and deliberately opens his flannel
coat, and opens the mouth of a large breast-pocket within it before taking the key to place
it in that repository.

'Why, Durdles!' exclaims Jasper, looking on amused, 'you are undermined with pockets!'

'And I carries weight in 'em too, Mr. Jasper.  Feel those!' producing two other large keys.

'Hand me Mr. Sapsea's likewise.  Surely this is the heaviest of the three.'

'You'll find 'em much of a muchness, I expect,' says Durdles. 'They all belong to monuments.
They all open Durdles's work. Durdles keeps the keys of his work mostly.  Not that they're
much used.'

'By the bye,' it comes into Jasper's mind to say, as he idly examines the keys, 'I have been
going to ask you, many a day, and have always forgotten.  You know they sometimes call you
Stony Durdles, don't you?'

'Cloisterham knows me as Durdles, Mr. Jasper.'

'I am aware of that, of course.  But the boys sometimes--'

'O! if you mind them young imps of boys--' Durdles gruffly interrupts.

'I don't mind them any more than you do.  But there was a discussion the other day among the
Choir, whether Stony stood for Tony;' clinking one key against another.

('Take care of the wards, Mr. Jasper.')

'Or whether Stony stood for Stephen;' clinking with a change of keys.

('You can't make a pitch pipe of 'em, Mr. Jasper.')

'Or whether the name comes from your trade.  How stands the fact?'

Mr. Jasper weighs the three keys in his hand, lifts his head from his idly stooping attitude
over the fire, and delivers the keys to Durdles with an ingenuous and friendly face.

But the stony one is a gruff one likewise, and that hazy state of his is always an uncertain
state, highly conscious of its dignity, and prone to take offence.  He drops his two keys back
into his pocket one by one, and buttons them up; he takes his dinner-bundle from the chair-back
on which he hung it when he came in; he distributes the weight he carries, by tying the third
key up in it, as though he were an Ostrich, and liked to dine off cold iron; and he gets out
of the room, deigning no word of answer.

Mr. Sapsea then proposes a hit at backgammon, which, seasoned with his own improving conversation,
and terminating in a supper of cold roast beef and salad, beguiles the golden evening until
pretty late.  Mr. Sapsea's wisdom being, in its delivery to mortals, rather of the diffuse
than the epigrammatic order, is by no means expended even then; but his visitor intimates that
he will come back for more of the precious commodity on future occasions, and Mr. Sapsea lets
him off for the present, to ponder on the instalment he carries away.

This would seem to be a poetical note of preparation, agreed upon, as a caution to Durdles
to stand clear if he can, or to betake himself homeward.

John Jasper invites the boy with a beck of his head to follow him (feeling it hopeless to drag
him, or coax him), and crosses to the iron railing where the Stony (and stoned) One is profoundly
meditating.

'Do you know this thing, this child?' asks Jasper, at a loss for a word that will define this
thing.

'Deputy,' says Durdles, with a nod.

'Is that its--his--name?'

'Deputy,' assents Durdles.

'I'm man-servant up at the Travellers' Twopenny in Gas Works Garding,' this thing explains.
'All us man-servants at Travellers' Lodgings is named Deputy.  'Durdles was making his reflections
here when you come up, sir, surrounded by his works, like a poplar Author.--Your own brother-in-law;'
introducing a sarcophagus within the railing, white and cold in the moonlight.  'Mrs. Sapsea;'
introducing the monument of that devoted wife.  'Late Incumbent;' introducing the Reverend
Gentleman's broken column.  'Departed Assessed Taxes;' introducing a vase and towel, standing
on what might represent the cake of soap.  'Former pastrycook and Muffin-maker, much respected;'
introducing gravestone.  'All safe and sound here, sir, and all Durdles's work. Of the common
folk, that is merely bundled up in turf and brambles, the less said the better.  Now, I don't
know what this scheme of mine comes to,' pursues Durdles, considering about it with the same
sodden gravity; 'I don't know what you may precisely call it.  It ain't a sort of a--scheme
of a- -National Education?'

'I should say not,' replies Jasper.

'Is there anything new down in the crypt, Durdles?' asks John Jasper.

'Anything old, I think you mean,' growls Durdles.  'It ain't a spot for novelty.'

'Any new discovery on your part, I meant.'

'There's a old 'un under the seventh pillar on the left as you go down the broken steps of
the little underground chapel as formerly was; I make him out (so fur as I've made him out
yet) to be one of them old 'uns with a crook.  To judge from the size of the passages in the
walls, and of the steps and doors, by which they come and went, them crooks must have been
a good deal in the way of the old 'uns!  Two on 'em meeting promiscuous must have hitched one
another by the mitre pretty often, I should say.'

Without any endeavour to correct the literality of this opinion, Jasper surveys his companion--covered
from head to foot with old mortar, lime, and stone grit--as though he, Jasper, were getting
imbued with a romantic interest in his weird life.

'Yours is a curious existence.'

Without furnishing the least clue to the question, whether he receives this as a compliment
or as quite the reverse, Durdles gruffly answers:  'Yours is another.'

'Well! inasmuch as my lot is cast in the same old earthy, chilly, never-changing place, Yes.
But there is much more mystery and interest in your connection with the Cathedral than in mine.
Indeed, I am beginning to have some idea of asking you to take me on as a sort of student,
or free 'prentice, under you, and to let me go about with you sometimes, and see some of these
odd nooks in which you pass your days.'

The Stony One replies, in a general way, 'All right.  Everybody knows where to find Durdles,
when he's wanted.'  Which, if not strictly true, is approximately so, if taken to express that
Durdles may always be found in a state of vagabondage somewhere.

'What I dwell upon most,' says Jasper, pursuing his subject of romantic interest, 'is the remarkable
accuracy with which you would seem to find out where people are buried.--What is the matter?
That bundle is in your way; let me hold it.'

Durdles has stopped and backed a little (Deputy, attentive to all his movements, immediately
skirmishing into the road), and was looking about for some ledge or corner to place his bundle
on, when thus relieved of it.

'Just you give me my hammer out of that,' says Durdles, 'and I'll show you.'

Clink, clink.  And his hammer is handed him.

'Now, lookee here.  You pitch your note, don't you, Mr. Jasper?'

'Yes.'

'So I sound for mine.  I take my hammer, and I tap.'  (Here he strikes the pavement, and the
attentive Deputy skirmishes at a rather wider range, as supposing that his head may be in requisition.)
'I tap, tap, tap.  Solid!  I go on tapping.  Solid still!  Tap again.  Holloa!  Hollow!  Tap
again, persevering. Solid in hollow!  Tap, tap, tap, to try it better.  Solid in hollow; and
inside solid, hollow again!  There you are!  Old 'un crumbled away in stone coffin, in vault!'

'Astonishing!'

'I have even done this,' says Durdles, drawing out his two-foot rule (Deputy meanwhile skirmishing
nearer, as suspecting that Treasure may be about to be discovered, which may somehow lead to
his own enrichment, and the delicious treat of the discoverers being hanged by the neck, on
his evidence, until they are dead). 'Say that hammer of mine's a wall--my work.  Two; four;
and two is six,' measuring on the pavement.  'Six foot inside that wall is Mrs. Sapsea.'

'Not really Mrs. Sapsea?'

'Say Mrs. Sapsea.  Her wall's thicker, but say Mrs. Sapsea. Durdles taps, that wall represented
by that hammer, and says, after good sounding:  "Something betwixt us!"  Sure enough, some
rubbish has been left in that same six-foot space by Durdles's men!'

Jasper opines that such accuracy 'is a gift.'

'I wouldn't have it at a gift,' returns Durdles, by no means receiving the observation in good
part.  'I worked it out for myself.

They have but to cross what was once the vineyard, belonging to what was once the Monastery,
to come into the narrow back lane wherein stands the crazy wooden house of two low stories
currently known as the Travellers' Twopenny:- a house all warped and distorted, like the morals
of the travellers, with scant remains of a lattice-work porch over the door, and also of a
rustic fence before its stamped-out garden; by reason of the travellers being so bound to the
premises by a tender sentiment (or so fond of having a fire by the roadside in the course of
the day), that they can never be persuaded or threatened into departure, without violently
possessing themselves of some wooden forget-me-not, and bearing it off.

The semblance of an inn is attempted to be given to this wretched place by fragments of conventional
red curtaining in the windows, which rags are made muddily transparent in the night-season
by feeble lights of rush or cotton dip burning dully in the close air of the inside.  As Durdles
and Jasper come near, they are addressed by an inscribed paper lantern over the door, setting
forth the purport of the house.  They are also addressed by some half-dozen other hideous small
boys--whether twopenny lodgers or followers or hangers-on of such, who knows!--who, as if attracted
by some carrion-scent of Deputy in the air, start into the moonlight, as vultures might gather
in the desert, and instantly fall to stoning him and one another.

'Stop, you young brutes,' cries Jasper angrily, 'and let us go by!'

This remonstrance being received with yells and flying stones, according to a custom of late
years comfortably established among the police regulations of our English communities, where
Christians are stoned on all sides, as if the days of Saint Stephen were revived, Durdles remarks
of the young savages, with some point, that 'they haven't got an object,' and leads the way
down the lane.

At the corner of the lane, Jasper, hotly enraged, checks his companion and looks back.  All
is silent.  Next moment, a stone coming rattling at his hat, and a distant yell of 'Wake-Cock!
Warning!' followed by a crow, as from some infernally-hatched Chanticleer, apprising him under
whose victorious fire he stands, he turns the corner into safety, and takes Durdles home: 
Durdles stumbling among the litter of his stony yard as if he were going to turn head foremost
into one of the unfinished tombs.

John Jasper returns by another way to his gatehouse, and entering softly with his key, finds
his fire still burning.  He takes from a locked press a peculiar-looking pipe, which he fills--but
not with tobacco--and, having adjusted the contents of the bowl, very carefully, with a little
instrument, ascends an inner staircase of only a few steps, leading to two rooms.  One of these
is his own sleeping chamber:  the other is his nephew's.  There is a light in each.

His nephew lies asleep, calm and untroubled.  John Jasper stands looking down upon him, his
unlighted pipe in his hand, for some time, with a fixed and deep attention.  Then, hushing
his footsteps, he passes to his own room, lights his pipe, and delivers himself to the Spectres
it invokes at midnight.

CHAPTER VI--PHILANTHROPY IN MINOR CANON CORNER

The Reverend Septimus Crisparkle (Septimus, because six little brother Crisparkles before him
went out, one by one, as they were born, like six weak little rushlights, as they were lighted),
having broken the thin morning ice near Cloisterham Weir with his amiable head, much to the
invigoration of his frame, was now assisting his circulation by boxing at a looking-glass with
great science and prowess.  A fresh and healthy portrait the looking- glass presented of the
Reverend Septimus, feinting and dodging with the utmost artfulness, and hitting out from the
shoulder with the utmost straightness, while his radiant features teemed with innocence, and
soft-hearted benevolence beamed from his boxing- gloves.

It was scarcely breakfast-time yet, for Mrs. Crisparkle--mother, not wife of the Reverend Septimus--was
only just down, and waiting for the urn.  Indeed, the Reverend Septimus left off at this very
moment to take the pretty old lady's entering face between his boxing-gloves and kiss it. 
Having done so with tenderness, the Reverend Septimus turned to again, countering with his
left, and putting in his right, in a tremendous manner.

'I say, every morning of my life, that you'll do it at last, Sept,' remarked the old lady,
looking on; 'and so you will.'

'Do what, Ma dear?'

'Break the pier-glass, or burst a blood-vessel.'

'Neither, please God, Ma dear.  Here's wind, Ma.  Look at this!' In a concluding round of great
severity, the Reverend Septimus administered and escaped all sorts of punishment, and wound
up by getting the old lady's cap into Chancery--such is the technical term used in scientific
circles by the learned in the Noble Art-- with a lightness of touch that hardly stirred the
lightest lavender or cherry riband on it.  Magnanimously releasing the defeated, just in time
to get his gloves into a drawer and feign to be looking out of window in a contemplative state
of mind when a servant entered, the Reverend Septimus then gave place to the urn and other
preparations for breakfast.  These completed, and the two alone again, it was pleasant to see
(or would have been, if there had been any one to see it, which there never was), the old lady
standing to say the Lord's Prayer aloud, and her son, Minor Canon nevertheless, standing with
bent head to hear it, he being within five years of forty:  much as he had stood to hear the
same words from the same lips when he was within five months of four.  For Minor Canon Corner
was a quiet place in the shadow of the Cathedral, which the cawing of the rooks, the echoing
footsteps of rare passers, the sound of the Cathedral bell, or the roll of the Cathedral organ,
seemed to render more quiet than absolute silence.  Swaggering fighting men had had their centuries
of ramping and raving about Minor Canon Corner, and beaten serfs had had their centuries of
drudging and dying there, and powerful monks had had their centuries of being sometimes useful
and sometimes harmful there, and behold they were all gone out of Minor Canon Corner, and so
much the better.  Perhaps one of the highest uses of their ever having been there, was, that
there might be left behind, that blessed air of tranquillity which pervaded Minor Canon Corner,
and that serenely romantic state of the mind--productive for the most part of pity and forbearance--
which is engendered by a sorrowful story that is all told, or a pathetic play that is played out.

Red-brick walls harmoniously toned down in colour by time, strong- rooted ivy, latticed windows,
panelled rooms, big oaken beams in little places, and stone-walled gardens where annual fruit
yet ripened upon monkish trees, were the principal surroundings of pretty old Mrs. Crisparkle
and the Reverend Septimus as they sat at breakfast.

'And what, Ma dear,' inquired the Minor Canon, giving proof of a wholesome and vigorous appetite,
'does the letter say?'

The pretty old lady, after reading it, had just laid it down upon the breakfast-cloth.  She
handed it over to her son.

Now, the old lady was exceedingly proud of her bright eyes being so clear that she could read
writing without spectacles.  Her son was also so proud of the circumstance, and so dutifully
bent on her deriving the utmost possible gratification from it, that he had invented the pretence
that he himself could NOT read writing without spectacles.  Therefore he now assumed a pair,
of grave and prodigious proportions, which not only seriously inconvenienced his nose and his
breakfast, but seriously impeded his perusal of the letter.  For, he had the eyes of a microscope
and a telescope combined, when they were unassisted.

'It's from Mr. Honeythunder, of course,' said the old lady, folding her arms.

'Of course,' assented her son.  He then lamely read on:

'"Haven of Philanthropy, Chief Offices, London, Wednesday.

'"DEAR MADAM,

'"I write in the--;"  In the what's this?  What does he write in?'

'In the chair,' said the old lady.

The Reverend Septimus took off his spectacles, that he might see her face, as he exclaimed:

'Why, what should he write in?'

'Bless me, bless me, Sept,' returned the old lady, 'you don't see the context!  Give it back
to me, my dear.'

Glad to get his spectacles off (for they always made his eyes water), her son obeyed:  murmuring
that his sight for reading manuscript got worse and worse daily.

'"I write,"' his mother went on, reading very perspicuously and precisely, '"from the chair,
to which I shall probably be confined for some hours."'

Septimus looked at the row of chairs against the wall, with a half- protesting and half-appealing
countenance.

'"We have,"' the old lady read on with a little extra emphasis, '"a meeting of our Convened
Chief Composite Committee of Central and District Philanthropists, at our Head Haven as above;
and it is their unanimous pleasure that I take the chair."'

Septimus breathed more freely, and muttered:  'O! if he comes to THAT, let him,'

'"Not to lose a day's post, I take the opportunity of a long report being read, denouncing
a public miscreant--"'

'It is a most extraordinary thing,' interposed the gentle Minor Canon, laying down his knife
and fork to rub his ear in a vexed manner, 'that these Philanthropists are always denouncing
somebody. And it is another most extraordinary thing that they are always so violently flush
of miscreants!'

'"Denouncing a public miscreant--"'--the old lady resumed, '"to get our little affair of business
off my mind.  I have spoken with my two wards, Neville and Helena Landless, on the subject
of their defective education, and they give in to the plan proposed; as I should have taken
good care they did, whether they liked it or not."'

'And it is another most extraordinary thing,' remarked the Minor Canon in the same tone as
before, 'that these philanthropists are so given to seizing their fellow-creatures by the scruff
of the neck, and (as one may say) bumping them into the paths of peace.--I beg your pardon,
Ma dear, for interrupting.'

'"Therefore, dear Madam, you will please prepare your son, the Rev. Mr. Septimus, to expect
Neville as an inmate to be read with, on Monday next.  On the same day Helena will accompany
him to Cloisterham, to take up her quarters at the Nuns' House, the establishment recommended
by yourself and son jointly.  Please likewise to prepare for her reception and tuition there.
The terms in both cases are understood to be exactly as stated to me in writing by yourself,
when I opened a correspondence with you on this subject, after the honour of being introduced
to you at your sister's house in town here.  With compliments to the Rev.  Mr. Septimus, I
am, Dear Madam, Your affectionate brother (In Philanthropy), LUKE HONEYTHUNDER."'

'Well, Ma,' said Septimus, after a little more rubbing of his ear, 'we must try it.  There
can be no doubt that we have room for an inmate, and that I have time to bestow upon him, and
inclination too.  I must confess to feeling rather glad that he is not Mr. Honeythunder himself.
Though that seems wretchedly prejudiced-- does it not?--for I never saw him.  Is he a large
man, Ma?'

'I should call him a large man, my dear,' the old lady replied after some hesitation, 'but
that his voice is so much larger.'

'Than himself?'

'Than anybody.'

'Hah!' said Septimus.  And finished his breakfast as if the flavour of the Superior Family
Souchong, and also of the ham and toast and eggs, were a little on the wane.

Mrs. Crisparkle's sister, another piece of Dresden china, and matching her so neatly that they
would have made a delightful pair of ornaments for the two ends of any capacious old-fashioned
chimneypiece, and by right should never have been seen apart, was the childless wife of a clergyman
holding Corporation preferment in London City.  Mr. Honeythunder in his public character of
Professor of Philanthropy had come to know Mrs. Crisparkle during the last re-matching of the
china ornaments (in other words during her last annual visit to her sister), after a public
occasion of a philanthropic nature, when certain devoted orphans of tender years had been glutted
with plum buns, and plump bumptiousness.  These were all the antecedents known in Minor Canon
Corner of the coming pupils.

'I am sure you will agree with me, Ma,' said Mr. Crisparkle, after thinking the matter over,
'that the first thing to be done, is, to put these young people as much at their ease as possible.
There is nothing disinterested in the notion, because we cannot be at our ease with them unless
they are at their ease with us.  Now, Jasper's nephew is down here at present; and like takes
to like, and youth takes to youth.  He is a cordial young fellow, and we will have him to meet
the brother and sister at dinner.  That's three.  We can't think of asking him, without asking
Jasper. That's four.  Add Miss Twinkleton and the fairy bride that is to be, and that's six.
Add our two selves, and that's eight.  Would eight at a friendly dinner at all put you out, Ma?'

'Nine would, Sept,' returned the old lady, visibly nervous.

'My dear Ma, I particularise eight.'

'The exact size of the table and the room, my dear.'

So it was settled that way:  and when Mr. Crisparkle called with his mother upon Miss Twinkleton,
to arrange for the reception of Miss Helena Landless at the Nuns' House, the two other invitations
having reference to that establishment were proffered and accepted. Miss Twinkleton did, indeed,
glance at the globes, as regretting that they were not formed to be taken out into society;
but became reconciled to leaving them behind.  Instructions were then despatched to the Philanthropist
for the departure and arrival, in good time for dinner, of Mr. Neville and Miss Helena; and
stock for soup became fragrant in the air of Minor Canon Corner.

In those days there was no railway to Cloisterham, and Mr. Sapsea said there never would be.
Mr. Sapsea said more; he said there never should be.  And yet, marvellous to consider, it has
come to pass, in these days, that Express Trains don't think Cloisterham worth stopping at,
but yell and whirl through it on their larger errands, casting the dust off their wheels as
a testimony against its insignificance.  Some remote fragment of Main Line to somewhere else,
there was, which was going to ruin the Money Market if it failed, and Church and State if it
succeeded, and (of course), the Constitution, whether or no; but even that had already so unsettled
Cloisterham traffic, that the traffic, deserting the high road, came sneaking in from an unprecedented
part of the country by a back stable-way, for many years labelled at the corner:  'Beware of
the Dog.'

To this ignominious avenue of approach, Mr. Crisparkle repaired, awaiting the arrival of a
short, squat omnibus, with a disproportionate heap of luggage on the roof--like a little Elephant
with infinitely too much Castle--which was then the daily service between Cloisterham and external
mankind.  As this vehicle lumbered up, Mr. Crisparkle could hardly see anything else of it
for a large outside passenger seated on the box, with his elbows squared, and his hands on
his knees, compressing the driver into a most uncomfortably small compass, and glowering about
him with a strongly-marked face.

'Is this Cloisterham?' demanded the passenger, in a tremendous voice.

'It is,' replied the driver, rubbing himself as if he ached, after throwing the reins to the
ostler.  'And I never was so glad to see it.'

'Tell your master to make his box-seat wider, then,' returned the passenger.  'Your master
is morally bound--and ought to be legally, under ruinous penalties--to provide for the comfort
of his fellow- man.'

The driver instituted, with the palms of his hands, a superficial perquisition into the state
of his skeleton; which seemed to make him anxious.

'Have I sat upon you?' asked the passenger.

'You have,' said the driver, as if he didn't like it at all.

'Take that card, my friend.'

'I think I won't deprive you on it,' returned the driver, casting his eyes over it with no
great favour, without taking it.  'What's the good of it to me?'

'Be a Member of that Society,' said the passenger.

'What shall I get by it?' asked the driver.

'Brotherhood,' returned the passenger, in a ferocious voice.

'Thankee,' said the driver, very deliberately, as he got down; 'my mother was contented with
myself, and so am I.  I don't want no brothers.'

'But you must have them,' replied the passenger, also descending, 'whether you like it or not.
I am your brother.'

' I say!' expostulated the driver, becoming more chafed in temper, 'not too fur!  The worm
WILL, when--'

But here, Mr. Crisparkle interposed, remonstrating aside, in a friendly voice:  'Joe, Joe,
Joe! don't forget yourself, Joe, my good fellow!' and then, when Joe peaceably touched his
hat, accosting the passenger with:  'Mr. Honeythunder?'

'That is my name, sir.'

'My name is Crisparkle.'

'Reverend Mr. Septimus?  Glad to see you, sir.  Neville and Helena are inside.  Having a little
succumbed of late, under the pressure of my public labours, I thought I would take a mouthful
of fresh air, and come down with them, and return at night.  So you are the Reverend Mr. Septimus,
are you?' surveying him on the whole with disappointment, and twisting a double eyeglass by
its ribbon, as if he were roasting it, but not otherwise using it.  'Hah!  I expected to see
you older, sir.'

'I hope you will,' was the good-humoured reply.

'Eh?' demanded Mr. Honeythunder.

'Only a poor little joke.  Not worth repeating.'

'Joke?  Ay; I never see a joke,' Mr. Honeythunder frowningly retorted.  'A joke is wasted upon
me, sir.  Where are they?  Helena and Neville, come here!  Mr. Crisparkle has come down to
meet you.'

An unusually handsome lithe young fellow, and an unusually handsome lithe girl; much alike;
both very dark, and very rich in colour; she of almost the gipsy type; something untamed about
them both; a certain air upon them of hunter and huntress; yet withal a certain air of being
the objects of the chase, rather than the followers. Slender, supple, quick of eye and limb;
half shy, half defiant; fierce of look; an indefinable kind of pause coming and going on their
whole expression, both of face and form, which might be equally likened to the pause before
a crouch or a bound.  The rough mental notes made in the first five minutes by Mr. Crisparkle
would have read thus, verbatim.

He invited Mr. Honeythunder to dinner, with a troubled mind (for the discomfiture of the dear
old china shepherdess lay heavy on it), and gave his arm to Helena Landless.  Both she and
her brother, as they walked all together through the ancient streets, took great delight in
what he pointed out of the Cathedral and the Monastery ruin, and wondered--so his notes ran
on--much as if they were beautiful barbaric captives brought from some wild tropical dominion.
Mr. Honeythunder walked in the middle of the road, shouldering the natives out of his way,
and loudly developing a scheme he had, for making a raid on all the unemployed persons in the
United Kingdom, laying them every one by the heels in jail, and forcing them, on pain of prompt
extermination, to become philanthropists.

Mrs. Crisparkle had need of her own share of philanthropy when she beheld this very large and
very loud excrescence on the little party.  Always something in the nature of a Boil upon the
face of society, Mr. Honeythunder expanded into an inflammatory Wen in Minor Canon Corner.
Though it was not literally true, as was facetiously charged against him by public unbelievers,
that he called aloud to his fellow-creatures:  'Curse your souls and bodies, come here and
be blessed!' still his philanthropy was of that gunpowderous sort that the difference between
it and animosity was hard to determine.  You were to abolish military force, but you were first
to bring all commanding officers who had done their duty, to trial by court-martial for that
offence, and shoot them. You were to abolish war, but were to make converts by making war upon
them, and charging them with loving war as the apple of their eye.  You were to have no capital
punishment, but were first to sweep off the face of the earth all legislators, jurists, and
judges, who were of the contrary opinion.  You were to have universal concord, and were to
get it by eliminating all the people who wouldn't, or conscientiously couldn't, be concordant.
You were to love your brother as yourself, but after an indefinite interval of maligning him
(very much as if you hated him), and calling him all manner of names.  Above all things, you
were to do nothing in private, or on your own account.  You were to go to the offices of the
Haven of Philanthropy, and put your name down as a Member and a Professing Philanthropist.
Then, you were to pay up your subscription, get your card of membership and your riband and
medal, and were evermore to live upon a platform, and evermore to say what Mr. Honeythunder
said, and what the Treasurer said, and what the sub-Treasurer said, and what the Committee
said, and what the sub-Committee said, and what the Secretary said, and what the Vice-Secretary
said.  And this was usually said in the unanimously- carried resolution under hand and seal,
to the effect:  'That this assembled Body of Professing Philanthropists views, with indignant
scorn and contempt, not unmixed with utter detestation and loathing abhorrence'--in short,
the baseness of all those who do not belong to it, and pledges itself to make as many obnoxious
statements as possible about them, without being at all particular as to facts.

The dinner was a most doleful breakdown.  The philanthropist deranged the symmetry of the table,
sat himself in the way of the waiting, blocked up the thoroughfare, and drove Mr. Tope (who
assisted the parlour-maid) to the verge of distraction by passing plates and dishes on, over
his own head.  Nobody could talk to anybody, because he held forth to everybody at once, as
if the company had no individual existence, but were a Meeting.  He impounded the Reverend
Mr. Septimus, as an official personage to be addressed, or kind of human peg to hang his oratorical
hat on, and fell into the exasperating habit, common among such orators, of impersonating him
as a wicked and weak opponent.  Thus, he would ask:  'And will you, sir, now stultify yourself
by telling me'--and so forth, when the innocent man had not opened his lips, nor meant to open
them.  Or he would say:  'Now see, sir, to what a position you are reduced.  I will leave you
no escape.  After exhausting all the resources of fraud and falsehood, during years upon years;
after exhibiting a combination of dastardly meanness with ensanguined daring, such as the world
has not often witnessed; you have now the hypocrisy to bend the knee before the most degraded
of mankind, and to sue and whine and howl for mercy!'  Whereat the unfortunate Minor Canon
would look, in part indignant and in part perplexed; while his worthy mother sat bridling,
with tears in her eyes, and the remainder of the party lapsed into a sort of gelatinous state,
in which there was no flavour or solidity, and very little resistance.

But the gush of philanthropy that burst forth when the departure of Mr. Honeythunder began
to impend, must have been highly gratifying to the feelings of that distinguished man.  His
coffee was produced, by the special activity of Mr. Tope, a full hour before he wanted it.
Mr. Crisparkle sat with his watch in his hand for about the same period, lest he should overstay
his time.  The four young people were unanimous in believing that the Cathedral clock struck
three-quarters, when it actually struck but one.  Miss Twinkleton estimated the distance to
the omnibus at five-and-twenty minutes' walk, when it was really five.  The affectionate kindness
of the whole circle hustled him into his greatcoat, and shoved him out into the moonlight,
as if he were a fugitive traitor with whom they sympathised, and a troop of horse were at the
back door.  Mr. Crisparkle and his new charge, who took him to the omnibus, were so fervent
in their apprehensions of his catching cold, that they shut him up in it instantly and left
him, with still half-an-hour to spare.

CHAPTER VII--MORE CONFIDENCES THAN ONE

'I know very little of that gentleman, sir,' said Neville to the Minor Canon as they turned back.

'You know very little of your guardian?' the Minor Canon repeated.

'Almost nothing!'

'How came he--'

'To BE my guardian?  I'll tell you, sir.  I suppose you know that we come (my sister and I)
from Ceylon?'

'Indeed, no.'

'I wonder at that.  We lived with a stepfather there.  Our mother died there, when we were
little children.  We have had a wretched existence.  She made him our guardian, and he was
a miserly wretch who grudged us food to eat, and clothes to wear.  At his death, he passed
us over to this man; for no better reason that I know of, than his being a friend or connexion
of his, whose name was always in print and catching his attention.'

'That was lately, I suppose?'

'Quite lately, sir.  This stepfather of ours was a cruel brute as well as a grinding one. 
It is well he died when he did, or I might have killed him.'

Mr. Crisparkle stopped short in the moonlight and looked at his hopeful pupil in consternation.

'I surprise you, sir?' he said, with a quick change to a submissive manner.

'You shock me; unspeakably shock me.'

The pupil hung his head for a little while, as they walked on, and then said:  'You never saw
him beat your sister.  I have seen him beat mine, more than once or twice, and I never forgot it.'

'Nothing,' said Mr. Crisparkle, 'not even a beloved and beautiful sister's tears under dastardly
ill-usage;' he became less severe, in spite of himself, as his indignation rose; 'could justify
those horrible expressions that you used.'

'I am sorry I used them, and especially to you, sir.  I beg to recall them.  But permit me
to set you right on one point.  You spoke of my sister's tears.  My sister would have let him
tear her to pieces, before she would have let him believe that he could make her shed a tear.'

Mr. Crisparkle reviewed those mental notes of his, and was neither at all surprised to hear
it, nor at all disposed to question it.

'Perhaps you will think it strange, sir,'--this was said in a hesitating voice--'that I should
so soon ask you to allow me to confide in you, and to have the kindness to hear a word or two
from me in my defence?'

'Defence?' Mr. Crisparkle repeated.  'You are not on your defence, Mr. Neville.'

'I think I am, sir.  At least I know I should be, if you were better acquainted with my character.'

'Well, Mr. Neville,' was the rejoinder.  'What if you leave me to find it out?'

'Since it is your pleasure, sir,' answered the young man, with a quick change in his manner
to sullen disappointment:  'since it is your pleasure to check me in my impulse, I must submit.'

There was that in the tone of this short speech which made the conscientious man to whom it
was addressed uneasy.  It hinted to him that he might, without meaning it, turn aside a trustfulness
beneficial to a mis-shapen young mind and perhaps to his own power of directing and improving
it.  They were within sight of the lights in his windows, and he stopped.

'Let us turn back and take a turn or two up and down, Mr. Neville, or you may not have time
to finish what you wish to say to me.  You are hasty in thinking that I mean to check you.
Quite the contrary.  I invite your confidence.'

'You have invited it, sir, without knowing it, ever since I came here.  I say "ever since,"
as if I had been here a week.  The truth is, we came here (my sister and I) to quarrel with
you, and affront you, and break away again.'

'Really?' said Mr. Crisparkle, at a dead loss for anything else to say.

'You see, we could not know what you were beforehand, sir; could we?'

'Clearly not,' said Mr. Crisparkle.

'And having liked no one else with whom we have ever been brought into contact, we had made
up our minds not to like you.'

'Really?' said Mr. Crisparkle again.

'But we do like you, sir, and we see an unmistakable difference between your house and your
reception of us, and anything else we have ever known.  This--and my happening to be alone
with you--and everything around us seeming so quiet and peaceful after Mr. Honeythunder's departure--and
Cloisterham being so old and grave and beautiful, with the moon shining on it--these things
inclined me to open my heart.'

'I quite understand, Mr. Neville.  And it is salutary to listen to such influences.'

'In describing my own imperfections, sir, I must ask you not to suppose that I am describing
my sister's.  She has come out of the disadvantages of our miserable life, as much better than
I am, as that Cathedral tower is higher than those chimneys.'

Mr. Crisparkle in his own breast was not so sure of this.

'I have had, sir, from my earliest remembrance, to suppress a deadly and bitter hatred.  This
has made me secret and revengeful. I have been always tyrannically held down by the strong
hand.  This has driven me, in my weakness, to the resource of being false and mean.  I have
been stinted of education, liberty, money, dress, the very necessaries of life, the commonest
pleasures of childhood, the commonest possessions of youth.  This has caused me to be utterly
wanting in I don't know what emotions, or remembrances, or good instincts--I have not even
a name for the thing, you see!--that you have had to work upon in other young men to whom you
have been accustomed.'

'This is evidently true.  But this is not encouraging,' thought Mr. Crisparkle as they turned
again.

'And to finish with, sir:  I have been brought up among abject and servile dependents, of an
inferior race, and I may easily have contracted some affinity with them.  Sometimes, I don't
know but that it may be a drop of what is tigerish in their blood.'

'As in the case of that remark just now,' thought Mr. Crisparkle.

'In a last word of reference to my sister, sir (we are twin children), you ought to know, to
her honour, that nothing in our misery ever subdued her, though it often cowed me.  When we
ran away from it (we ran away four times in six years, to be soon brought back and cruelly
punished), the flight was always of her planning and leading.  Each time she dressed as a boy,
and showed the daring of a man.  I take it we were seven years old when we first decamped;
but I remember, when I lost the pocket-knife with which she was to have cut her hair short,
how desperately she tried to tear it out, or bite it off.  I have nothing further to say, sir,
except that I hope you will bear with me and make allowance for me.'

'Of that, Mr. Neville, you may be sure,' returned the Minor Canon. 'I don't preach more than
I can help, and I will not repay your confidence with a sermon.  But I entreat you to bear
in mind, very seriously and steadily, that if I am to do you any good, it can only be with
your own assistance; and that you can only render that, efficiently, by seeking aid from Heaven.'

'I will try to do my part, sir.'

'And, Mr. Neville, I will try to do mine.  Here is my hand on it. May God bless our endeavours!'

They were now standing at his house-door, and a cheerful sound of voices and laughter was heard
within.

'We will take one more turn before going in,' said Mr. Crisparkle, 'for I want to ask you a
question.  When you said you were in a changed mind concerning me, you spoke, not only for
yourself, but for your sister too?'

'Undoubtedly I did, sir.'

'Excuse me, Mr. Neville, but I think you have had no opportunity of communicating with your
sister, since I met you.  Mr. Honeythunder was very eloquent; but perhaps I may venture to
say, without ill- nature, that he rather monopolised the occasion.  May you not have answered
for your sister without sufficient warrant?'

Neville shook his head with a proud smile.

'You don't know, sir, yet, what a complete understanding can exist between my sister and me,
though no spoken word--perhaps hardly as much as a look--may have passed between us.  She not
only feels as I have described, but she very well knows that I am taking this opportunity of
speaking to you, both for her and for myself.'

Mr. Crisparkle looked in his face, with some incredulity; but his face expressed such absolute
and firm conviction of the truth of what he said, that Mr. Crisparkle looked at the pavement,
and mused, until they came to his door again.

'I will ask for one more turn, sir, this time,' said the young man, with a rather heightened
colour rising in his face.  'But for Mr. Honeythunder's--I think you called it eloquence, sir?'
(somewhat slyly.)

'I--yes, I called it eloquence,' said Mr. Crisparkle.

'But for Mr. Honeythunder's eloquence, I might have had no need to ask you what I am going
to ask you.  This Mr. Edwin Drood, sir:  I think that's the name?'

'Quite correct,' said Mr. Crisparkle.  'D-r-double o-d.'

'Does he--or did he--read with you, sir?'

'Never, Mr. Neville.  He comes here visiting his relation, Mr. Jasper.'

'Is Miss Bud his relation too, sir?'

('Now, why should he ask that, with sudden superciliousness?' thought Mr. Crisparkle.)  Then
he explained, aloud, what he knew of the little story of their betrothal.

'O! THAT'S it, is it?' said the young man.  'I understand his air of proprietorship now!'

This was said so evidently to himself, or to anybody rather than Mr. Crisparkle, that the latter
instinctively felt as if to notice it would be almost tantamount to noticing a passage in a
letter which he had read by chance over the writer's shoulder.  A moment afterwards they re-entered
the house.

Mr. Jasper was seated at the piano as they came into his drawing- room, and was accompanying
Miss Rosebud while she sang.  It was a consequence of his playing the accompaniment without
notes, and of her being a heedless little creature, very apt to go wrong, that he followed
her lips most attentively, with his eyes as well as hands; carefully and softly hinting the
key-note from time to time. Standing with an arm drawn round her, but with a face far more
intent on Mr. Jasper than on her singing, stood Helena, between whom and her brother an instantaneous
recognition passed, in which Mr. Crisparkle saw, or thought he saw, the understanding that
had been spoken of, flash out.  Mr. Neville then took his admiring station, leaning against
the piano, opposite the singer; Mr. Crisparkle sat down by the china shepherdess; Edwin Drood
gallantly furled and unfurled Miss Twinkleton's fan; and that lady passively claimed that sort
of exhibitor's proprietorship in the accomplishment on view, which Mr. Tope, the Verger, daily
claimed in the Cathedral service.

The song went on.  It was a sorrowful strain of parting, and the fresh young voice was very
plaintive and tender.  As Jasper watched the pretty lips, and ever and again hinted the one
note, as though it were a low whisper from himself, the voice became less steady, until all
at once the singer broke into a burst of tears, and shrieked out, with her hands over her eyes:
'I can't bear this!  I am frightened!  Take me away!'

With one swift turn of her lithe figures Helena laid the little beauty on a sofa, as if she
had never caught her up.  Then, on one knee beside her, and with one hand upon her rosy mouth,
while with the other she appealed to all the rest, Helena said to them:  'It's nothing; it's
all over; don't speak to her for one minute, and she is well!'

Jasper's hands had, in the same instant, lifted themselves from the keys, and were now poised
above them, as though he waited to resume.  In that attitude he yet sat quiet:  not even looking
round, when all the rest had changed their places and were reassuring one another.

'Pussy's not used to an audience; that's the fact,' said Edwin Drood.  'She got nervous, and
couldn't hold out.  Besides, Jack, you are such a conscientious master, and require so much,
that I believe you make her afraid of you.  No wonder.'

'No wonder,' repeated Helena.

'There, Jack, you hear!  You would be afraid of him, under similar circumstances, wouldn't
you, Miss Landless?'

'Not under any circumstances,' returned Helena.

Jasper brought down his hands, looked over his shoulder, and begged to thank Miss Landless
for her vindication of his character.  Then he fell to dumbly playing, without striking the
notes, while his little pupil was taken to an open window for air, and was otherwise petted
and restored.  When she was brought back, his place was empty.  'Jack's gone, Pussy,' Edwin
told her.  'I am more than half afraid he didn't like to be charged with being the Monster
who had frightened you.'  But she answered never a word, and shivered, as if they had made
her a little too cold.

Miss Twinkleton now opining that indeed these were late hours, Mrs. Crisparkle, for finding
ourselves outside the walls of the Nuns' House, and that we who undertook the formation of
the future wives and mothers of England (the last words in a lower voice, as requiring to be
communicated in confidence) were really bound (voice coming up again) to set a better example
than one of rakish habits, wrappers were put in requisition, and the two young cavaliers volunteered
to see the ladies home.  It was soon done, and the gate of the Nuns' House closed upon them.

The boarders had retired, and only Mrs. Tisher in solitary vigil awaited the new pupil.  Her
bedroom being within Rosa's, very little introduction or explanation was necessary, before
she was placed in charge of her new friend, and left for the night.

'This is a blessed relief, my dear,' said Helena.  'I have been dreading all day, that I should
be brought to bay at this time.'

'There are not many of us,' returned Rosa, 'and we are good-natured girls; at least the others
are; I can answer for them.'

'I can answer for you,' laughed Helena, searching the lovely little face with her dark, fiery
eyes, and tenderly caressing the small figure.  'You will be a friend to me, won't you?'

'I hope so.  But the idea of my being a friend to you seems too absurd, though.'

'Why?'

'O, I am such a mite of a thing, and you are so womanly and handsome.  You seem to have resolution
and power enough to crush me.  I shrink into nothing by the side of your presence even.'

'I am a neglected creature, my dear, unacquainted with all accomplishments, sensitively conscious
that I have everything to learn, and deeply ashamed to own my ignorance.'

'And yet you acknowledge everything to me!' said Rosa.

'My pretty one, can I help it?  There is a fascination in you.'

'O! is there though?' pouted Rosa, half in jest and half in earnest.  'What a pity Master Eddy
doesn't feel it more!'

Of course her relations towards that young gentleman had been already imparted in Minor Canon
Corner.

'Why, surely he must love you with all his heart!' cried Helena, with an earnestness that threatened
to blaze into ferocity if he didn't.

'Eh?  O, well, I suppose he does,' said Rosa, pouting again; 'I am sure I have no right to
say he doesn't.  Perhaps it's my fault. Perhaps I am not as nice to him as I ought to be. 
I don't think I am.  But it IS so ridiculous!'

Helena's eyes demanded what was.

'WE are,' said Rosa, answering as if she had spoken.  'We are such a ridiculous couple.  And
we are always quarrelling.'

'Why?'

'Because we both know we are ridiculous, my dear!'  Rosa gave that answer as if it were the
most conclusive answer in the world.

Helena's masterful look was intent upon her face for a few moments, and then she impulsively
put out both her hands and said:

'You will be my friend and help me?'

'Indeed, my dear, I will,' replied Rosa, in a tone of affectionate childishness that went straight
and true to her heart; 'I will be as good a friend as such a mite of a thing can be to such
a noble creature as you.  And be a friend to me, please; I don't understand myself:  and I
want a friend who can understand me, very much indeed.'

Helena Landless kissed her, and retaining both her hands said:

'Who is Mr. Jasper?'

Rosa turned aside her head in answering:  'Eddy's uncle, and my music-master.'

'You do not love him?'

'Ugh!'  She put her hands up to her face, and shook with fear or horror.

'You know that he loves you?'

'O, don't, don't, don't!' cried Rosa, dropping on her knees, and clinging to her new resource.
'Don't tell me of it!  He terrifies me.  He haunts my thoughts, like a dreadful ghost.  I feel
that I am never safe from him.  I feel as if he could pass in through the wall when he is spoken
of.'  She actually did look round, as if she dreaded to see him standing in the shadow behind her.

'Try to tell me more about it, darling.'

'Yes, I will, I will.  Because you are so strong.  But hold me the while, and stay with me
afterwards.'

'My child!  You speak as if he had threatened you in some dark way.'

'He has never spoken to me about--that.  Never.'

'What has he done?'

'He has made a slave of me with his looks.  He has forced me to understand him, without his
saying a word; and he has forced me to keep silence, without his uttering a threat.  When I
play, he never moves his eyes from my hands.  When I sing, he never moves his eyes from my
lips.  When he corrects me, and strikes a note, or a chord, or plays a passage, he himself
is in the sounds, whispering that he pursues me as a lover, and commanding me to keep his secret.
I avoid his eyes, but he forces me to see them without looking at them.  Even when a glaze
comes over them (which is sometimes the case), and he seems to wander away into a frightful
sort of dream in which he threatens most, he obliges me to know it, and to know that he is
sitting close at my side, more terrible to me than ever.'

'What is this imagined threatening, pretty one?  What is threatened?'

'I don't know.  I have never even dared to think or wonder what it is.'

'And was this all, to-night?'

'This was all; except that to-night when he watched my lips so closely as I was singing, besides
feeling terrified I felt ashamed and passionately hurt.  It was as if he kissed me, and I couldn't
bear it, but cried out.  You must never breathe this to any one. Eddy is devoted to him.  But
you said to-night that you would not be afraid of him, under any circumstances, and that gives
me--who am so much afraid of him--courage to tell only you.  Hold me!  Stay with me!  I am
too frightened to be left by myself.'

The lustrous gipsy-face drooped over the clinging arms and bosom, and the wild black hair fell
down protectingly over the childish form.  There was a slumbering gleam of fire in the intense
dark eyes, though they were then softened with compassion and admiration.  Let whomsoever it
most concerned look well to it!

CHAPTER VIII--DAGGERS DRAWN

The two young men, having seen the damsels, their charges, enter the courtyard of the Nuns'
House, and finding themselves coldly stared at by the brazen door-plate, as if the battered
old beau with the glass in his eye were insolent, look at one another, look along the perspective
of the moonlit street, and slowly walk away together.

'Do you stay here long, Mr. Drood?' says Neville.

'Not this time,' is the careless answer.  'I leave for London again, to-morrow.  But I shall
be here, off and on, until next Midsummer; then I shall take my leave of Cloisterham, and England
too; for many a long day, I expect.'

'Are you going abroad?'

'Going to wake up Egypt a little,' is the condescending answer.

'Are you reading?'

'Reading?' repeats Edwin Drood, with a touch of contempt.  'No. Doing, working, engineering.
My small patrimony was left a part of the capital of the Firm I am with, by my father, a former
partner; and I am a charge upon the Firm until I come of age; and then I step into my modest
share in the concern.  Jack--you met him at dinner--is, until then, my guardian and trustee.'

'I heard from Mr. Crisparkle of your other good fortune.'

'What do you mean by my other good fortune?'

Neville has made his remark in a watchfully advancing, and yet furtive and shy manner, very
expressive of that peculiar air already noticed, of being at once hunter and hunted.  Edwin
has made his retort with an abruptness not at all polite.  They stop and interchange a rather
heated look.

'I hope,' says Neville, 'there is no offence, Mr. Drood, in my innocently referring to your
betrothal?'

'By George!' cries Edwin, leading on again at a somewhat quicker pace; 'everybody in this chattering
old Cloisterham refers to it I wonder no public-house has been set up, with my portrait for
the sign of The Betrothed's Head.  Or Pussy's portrait.  One or the other.'

'I am not accountable for Mr. Crisparkle's mentioning the matter to me, quite openly,' Neville
begins.

'No; that's true; you are not,' Edwin Drood assents.

'But,' resumes Neville, 'I am accountable for mentioning it to you. And I did so, on the supposition
that you could not fail to be highly proud of it.'

Now, there are these two curious touches of human nature working the secret springs of this
dialogue.  Neville Landless is already enough impressed by Little Rosebud, to feel indignant
that Edwin Drood (far below her) should hold his prize so lightly.  Edwin Drood is already
enough impressed by Helena, to feel indignant that Helena's brother (far below her) should
dispose of him so coolly, and put him out of the way so entirely.

However, the last remark had better be answered.  So, says Edwin:

'I don't know, Mr. Neville' (adopting that mode of address from Mr. Crisparkle), 'that what
people are proudest of, they usually talk most about; I don't know either, that what they are
proudest of, they most like other people to talk about.  But I live a busy life, and I speak
under correction by you readers, who ought to know everything, and I daresay do.'

By this time they had both become savage; Mr. Neville out in the open; Edwin Drood under the
transparent cover of a popular tune, and a stop now and then to pretend to admire picturesque
effects in the moonlight before him.

'It does not seem to me very civil in you,' remarks Neville, at length, 'to reflect upon a
stranger who comes here, not having had your advantages, to try to make up for lost time. 
But, to be sure, I was not brought up in "busy life," and my ideas of civility were formed
among Heathens.'

'Perhaps, the best civility, whatever kind of people we are brought up among,' retorts Edwin
Drood, 'is to mind our own business.  If you will set me that example, I promise to follow it.'

'Do you know that you take a great deal too much upon yourself?' is the angry rejoinder, 'and
that in the part of the world I come from, you would be called to account for it?'

'By whom, for instance?' asks Edwin Drood, coming to a halt, and surveying the other with a
look of disdain.

But, here a startling right hand is laid on Edwin's shoulder, and Jasper stands between them.
For, it would seem that he, too, has strolled round by the Nuns' House, and has come up behind
them on the shadowy side of the road.

'Ned, Ned, Ned!' he says; 'we must have no more of this.  I don't like this.  I have overheard
high words between you two.  Remember, my dear boy, you are almost in the position of host
to-night.  You belong, as it were, to the place, and in a manner represent it towards a stranger.
Mr. Neville is a stranger, and you should respect the obligations of hospitality.  And, Mr.
Neville,' laying his left hand on the inner shoulder of that young gentleman, and thus walking
on between them, hand to shoulder on either side: 'you will pardon me; but I appeal to you
to govern your temper too. Now, what is amiss?  But why ask!  Let there be nothing amiss, and
the question is superfluous.  We are all three on a good understanding, are we not?'

After a silent struggle between the two young men who shall speak last, Edwin Drood strikes
in with:  'So far as I am concerned, Jack, there is no anger in me.'

'Nor in me,' says Neville Landless, though not so freely; or perhaps so carelessly.  'But if
Mr. Drood knew all that lies behind me, far away from here, he might know better how it is
that sharp- edged words have sharp edges to wound me.'

'Perhaps,' says Jasper, in a soothing manner, 'we had better not qualify our good understanding.
We had better not say anything having the appearance of a remonstrance or condition; it might
not seem generous.  Frankly and freely, you see there is no anger in Ned.  Frankly and freely,
there is no anger in you, Mr. Neville?'

'None at all, Mr. Jasper.'  Still, not quite so frankly or so freely; or, be it said once again,
not quite so carelessly perhaps.

'All over then!  Now, my bachelor gatehouse is a few yards from here, and the heater is on
the fire, and the wine and glasses are on the table, and it is not a stone's throw from Minor
Canon Corner.  Ned, you are up and away to-morrow.  We will carry Mr. Neville in with us, to
take a stirrup-cup.'

'With all my heart, Jack.'

'And with all mine, Mr. Jasper.'  Neville feels it impossible to say less, but would rather
not go.  He has an impression upon him that he has lost hold of his temper; feels that Edwin
Drood's coolness, so far from being infectious, makes him red-hot.

Mr. Jasper, still walking in the centre, hand to shoulder on either side, beautifully turns
the Refrain of a drinking song, and they all go up to his rooms.  There, the first object visible,
when he adds the light of a lamp to that of the fire, is the portrait over the chimneypicce.
It is not an object calculated to improve the understanding between the two young men, as rather
awkwardly reviving the subject of their difference.  Accordingly, they both glance at it consciously,
but say nothing.  Jasper, however (who would appear from his conduct to have gained but an
imperfect clue to the cause of their late high words), directly calls attention to it.

'You recognise that picture, Mr. Neville?' shading the lamp to throw the light upon it.

'I recognise it, but it is far from flattering the original.'

'O, you are hard upon it!  It was done by Ned, who made me a present of it.'

'I am sorry for that, Mr. Drood.'  Neville apologises, with a real intention to apologise;
'if I had known I was in the artist's presence--'

'O, a joke, sir, a mere joke,' Edwin cuts in, with a provoking yawn.  'A little humouring of
Pussy's points!  I'm going to paint her gravely, one of these days, if she's good.'

The air of leisurely patronage and indifference with which this is said, as the speaker throws
himself back in a chair and clasps his hands at the back of his head, as a rest for it, is
very exasperating to the excitable and excited Neville.  Jasper looks observantly from the
one to the other, slightly smiles, and turns his back to mix a jug of mulled wine at the fire.
It seems to require much mixing and compounding.

'I suppose, Mr. Neville,' says Edwin, quick to resent the indignant protest against himself
in the face of young Landless, which is fully as visible as the portrait, or the fire, or the
lamp:  'I suppose that if you painted the picture of your lady love--'

'I can't paint,' is the hasty interruption.

'That's your misfortune, and not your fault.  You would if you could.  But if you could, I
suppose you would make her (no matter what she was in reality), Juno, Minerva, Diana, and Venus,
all in one.  Eh?'

'I have no lady love, and I can't say.'

'If I were to try my hand,' says Edwin, with a boyish boastfulness getting up in him, 'on a
portrait of Miss Landless--in earnest, mind you; in earnest--you should see what I could do!'

'My sister's consent to sit for it being first got, I suppose?  As it never will be got, I
am afraid I shall never see what you can do.  I must bear the loss.'

Jasper turns round from the fire, fills a large goblet glass for Neville, fills a large goblet
glass for Edwin, and hands each his own; then fills for himself, saying:

'Come, Mr. Neville, we are to drink to my nephew, Ned.  As it is his foot that is in the stirrup--metaphorically--our
stirrup-cup is to be devoted to him.  Ned, my dearest fellow, my love!'

Jasper sets the example of nearly emptying his glass, and Neville follows it.  Edwin Drood
says, 'Thank you both very much,' and follows the double example.

'Look at him,' cries Jasper, stretching out his hand admiringly and tenderly, though rallyingly
too.  'See where he lounges so easily, Mr. Neville!  The world is all before him where to choose.
A life of stirring work and interest, a life of change and excitement, a life of domestic ease
and love!  Look at him!'

Edwin Drood's face has become quickly and remarkably flushed with the wine; so has the face
of Neville Landless.  Edwin still sits thrown back in his chair, making that rest of clasped
hands for his head.

'See how little he heeds it all!'  Jasper proceeds in a bantering vein.  'It is hardly worth
his while to pluck the golden fruit that hangs ripe on the tree for him.  And yet consider
the contrast, Mr. Neville.  You and I have no prospect of stirring work and interest, or of
change and excitement, or of domestic ease and love.  You and I have no prospect (unless you
are more fortunate than I am, which may easily be), but the tedious unchanging round of this
dull place.'

'Upon my soul, Jack,' says Edwin, complacently, 'I feel quite apologetic for having my way
smoothed as you describe.  But you know what I know, Jack, and it may not be so very easy as
it seems, after all.  May it, Pussy?'  To the portrait, with a snap of his thumb and finger.
'We have got to hit it off yet; haven't we, Pussy?  You know what I mean, Jack.'

His speech has become thick and indistinct.  Jasper, quiet and self-possessed, looks to Neville,
as expecting his answer or comment.  When Neville speaks, HIS speech is also thick and indistinct.

'It might have been better for Mr. Drood to have known some hardships,' he says, defiantly.

'Pray,' retorts Edwin, turning merely his eyes in that direction, 'pray why might it have been
better for Mr. Drood to have known some hardships?'

'Ay,' Jasper assents, with an air of interest; 'let us know why?'

'Because they might have made him more sensible,' says Neville, 'of good fortune that is not
by any means necessarily the result of his own merits.'

Mr. Jasper quickly looks to his nephew for his rejoinder.

'Have YOU known hardships, may I ask?' says Edwin Drood, sitting upright.

Mr. Jasper quickly looks to the other for his retort.

'I have.'

'And what have they made you sensible of?'

Mr. Jasper's play of eyes between the two holds good throughout the dialogue, to the end.

'I have told you once before to-night.'

'You have done nothing of the sort.'

'I tell you I have.  That you take a great deal too much upon yourself.'

'You added something else to that, if I remember?'

'Yes, I did say something else.'

'Say it again.'

'I said that in the part of the world I come from, you would be called to account for it.'

'Only there?' cries Edwin Drood, with a contemptuous laugh.  'A long way off, I believe?  Yes;
I see!  That part of the world is at a safe distance.'

'Say here, then,' rejoins the other, rising in a fury.  'Say anywhere!  Your vanity is intolerable,
your conceit is beyond endurance; you talk as if you were some rare and precious prize, instead
of a common boaster.  You are a common fellow, and a common boaster.'

'Pooh, pooh,' says Edwin Drood, equally furious, but more collected; 'how should you know?
You may know a black common fellow, or a black common boaster, when you see him (and no doubt
you have a large acquaintance that way); but you are no judge of white men.'

This insulting allusion to his dark skin infuriates Neville to that violent degree, that he
flings the dregs of his wine at Edwin Drood, and is in the act of flinging the goblet after
it, when his arm is caught in the nick of time by Jasper.

'Ned, my dear fellow!' he cries in a loud voice; 'I entreat you, I command you, to be still!'
There has been a rush of all the three, and a clattering of glasses and overturning of chairs.
'Mr. Neville, for shame!  Give this glass to me.  Open your hand, sir. I WILL have it!'

But Neville throws him off, and pauses for an instant, in a raging passion, with the goblet
yet in his uplifted hand.  Then, he dashes it down under the grate, with such force that the
broken splinters fly out again in a shower; and he leaves the house.

When he first emerges into the night air, nothing around him is still or steady; nothing around
him shows like what it is; he only knows that he stands with a bare head in the midst of a
blood-red whirl, waiting to be struggled with, and to struggle to the death.

But, nothing happening, and the moon looking down upon him as if he were dead after a fit of
wrath, he holds his steam-hammer beating head and heart, and staggers away.  Then, he becomes
half-conscious of having heard himself bolted and barred out, like a dangerous animal; and
thinks what shall he do?

Some wildly passionate ideas of the river dissolve under the spell of the moonlight on the
Cathedral and the graves, and the remembrance of his sister, and the thought of what he owes
to the good man who has but that very day won his confidence and given him his pledge.  He
repairs to Minor Canon Corner, and knocks softly at the door.  The south wind that goes where
it lists, by way of Minor Canon Corner on a still night, is not more subdued than Mr. Crisparkle
at such times, regardful of the slumbers of the china shepherdess.

His knock is immediately answered by Mr. Crisparkle himself.  When he opens the door, candle
in hand, his cheerful face falls, and disappointed amazement is in it.

'Mr. Neville!  In this disorder!  Where have you been?'

'I have been to Mr. Jasper's, sir.  With his nephew.'

'Come in.'

The Minor Canon props him by the elbow with a strong hand (in a strictly scientific manner,
worthy of his morning trainings), and turns him into his own little book-room, and shuts the door.'

'I have begun ill, sir.  I have begun dreadfully ill.'

'Too true.  You are not sober, Mr. Neville.'

'I am afraid I am not, sir, though I can satisfy you at another time that I have had a very
little indeed to drink, and that it overcame me in the strangest and most sudden manner.'

'Mr. Neville, Mr. Neville,' says the Minor Canon, shaking his head with a sorrowful smile;
'I have heard that said before.'

'I think--my mind is much confused, but I think--it is equally true of Mr. Jasper's nephew, sir.'

'Very likely,' is the dry rejoinder.

'We quarrelled, sir.  He insulted me most grossly.  He had heated that tigerish blood I told
you of to-day, before then.'

'Mr. Neville,' rejoins the Minor Canon, mildly, but firmly:  'I request you not to speak to
me with that clenched right hand. Unclench it, if you please.'

'He goaded me, sir,' pursues the young man, instantly obeying, 'beyond my power of endurance.
I cannot say whether or no he meant it at first, but he did it.  He certainly meant it at last.
In short, sir,' with an irrepressible outburst, 'in the passion into which he lashed me, I
would have cut him down if I could, and I tried to do it.'

'You have clenched that hand again,' is Mr. Crisparkle's quiet commentary.

'I beg your pardon, sir.'

'You know your room, for I showed it you before dinner; but I will accompany you to it once
more.  Your arm, if you please.  Softly, for the house is all a-bed.'

Scooping his hand into the same scientific elbow-rest as before, and backing it up with the
inert strength of his arm, as skilfully as a Police Expert, and with an apparent repose quite
unattainable by novices, Mr. Crisparkle conducts his pupil to the pleasant and orderly old
room prepared for him.  Arrived there, the young man throws himself into a chair, and, flinging
his arms upon his reading-table, rests his head upon them with an air of wretched self-reproach.

The gentle Minor Canon has had it in his thoughts to leave the room, without a word.  But looking
round at the door, and seeing this dejected figure, he turns back to it, touches it with a
mild hand, says 'Good night!'  A sob is his only acknowledgment.  He might have had many a
worse; perhaps, could have had few better.

Another soft knock at the outer door attracts his attention as he goes down-stairs.  He opens
it to Mr. Jasper, holding in his hand the pupil's hat.

'We have had an awful scene with him,' says Jasper, in a low voice.

'Has it been so bad as that?'

'Murderous!'

Mr. Crisparkle remonstrates:  'No, no, no.  Do not use such strong words.'

'He might have laid my dear boy dead at my feet.  It is no fault of his, that he did not. 
But that I was, through the mercy of God, swift and strong with him, he would have cut him
down on my hearth.'

The phrase smites home.  'Ah!' thinks Mr. Crisparkle, 'his own words!'

'Seeing what I have seen to-night, and hearing what I have heard,' adds Jasper, with great
earnestness, 'I shall never know peace of mind when there is danger of those two coming together,
with no one else to interfere.  It was horrible.  There is something of the tiger in his dark
blood.'

'Ah!' thinks Mr. Crisparkle, 'so he said!'

'You, my dear sir,' pursues Jasper, taking his hand, 'even you, have accepted a dangerous charge.'

'You need have no fear for me, Jasper,' returns Mr. Crisparkle, with a quiet smile.  'I have
none for myself.'

'I have none for myself,' returns Jasper, with an emphasis on the last pronoun, 'because I
am not, nor am I in the way of being, the object of his hostility.  But you may be, and my
dear boy has been. Good night!'

Mr. Crisparkle goes in, with the hat that has so easily, so almost imperceptibly, acquired
the right to be hung up in his hall; hangs it up; and goes thoughtfully to bed.

CHAPTER IX--BIRDS IN THE BUSH

Rosa, having no relation that she knew of in the world, had, from the seventh year of her age,
known no home but the Nuns' House, and no mother but Miss Twinkleton.  Her remembrance of her
own mother was of a pretty little creature like herself (not much older than herself it seemed
to her), who had been brought home in her father's arms, drowned.  The fatal accident had happened
at a party of pleasure.  Every fold and colour in the pretty summer dress, and even the long
wet hair, with scattered petals of ruined flowers still clinging to it, as the dead young figure,
in its sad, sad beauty lay upon the bed, were fixed indelibly in Rosa's recollection.  So were
the wild despair and the subsequent bowed- down grief of her poor young father, who died broken-hearted
on the first anniversary of that hard day.

The betrothal of Rosa grew out of the soothing of his year of mental distress by his fast friend
and old college companion, Drood:  who likewise had been left a widower in his youth.  But
he, too, went the silent road into which all earthly pilgrimages merge, some sooner, and some
later; and thus the young couple had come to be as they were.

The atmosphere of pity surrounding the little orphan girl when she first came to Cloisterham,
had never cleared away.  It had taken brighter hues as she grew older, happier, prettier; now
it had been golden, now roseate, and now azure; but it had always adorned her with some soft
light of its own.  The general desire to console and caress her, had caused her to be treated
in the beginning as a child much younger than her years; the same desire had caused her to
be still petted when she was a child no longer.  Who should be her favourite, who should anticipate
this or that small present, or do her this or that small service; who should take her home
for the holidays; who should write to her the oftenest when they were separated, and whom she
would most rejoice to see again when they were reunited; even these gentle rivalries were not
without their slight dashes of bitterness in the Nuns' House.  Well for the poor Nuns in their
day, if they hid no harder strife under their veils and rosaries!

Thus Rosa had grown to be an amiable, giddy, wilful, winning little creature; spoilt, in the
sense of counting upon kindness from all around her; but not in the sense of repaying it with
indifference. Possessing an exhaustless well of affection in her nature, its sparkling waters
had freshened and brightened the Nuns' House for years, and yet its depths had never yet been
moved:  what might betide when that came to pass; what developing changes might fall upon the
heedless head, and light heart, then; remained to be seen.

By what means the news that there had been a quarrel between the two young men overnight, involving
even some kind of onslaught by Mr. Neville upon Edwin Drood, got into Miss Twinkleton's establishment
before breakfast, it is impossible to say.  Whether it was brought in by the birds of the air,
or came blowing in with the very air itself, when the casement windows were set open; whether
the baker brought it kneaded into the bread, or the milkman delivered it as part of the adulteration
of his milk; or the housemaids, beating the dust out of their mats against the gateposts, received
it in exchange deposited on the mats by the town atmosphere; certain it is that the news permeated
every gable of the old building before Miss Twinkleton was down, and that Miss Twinkleton herself
received it through Mrs. Tisher, while yet in the act of dressing; or (as she might have expressed
the phrase to a parent or guardian of a mythological turn) of sacrificing to the Graces.

Miss Landless's brother had thrown a bottle at Mr. Edwin Drood.

Miss Landless's brother had thrown a knife at Mr. Edwin Drood.

A knife became suggestive of a fork; and Miss Landless's brother had thrown a fork at Mr. Edwin
Drood.

As in the governing precedence of Peter Piper, alleged to have picked the peck of pickled pepper,
it was held physically desirable to have evidence of the existence of the peck of pickled pepper
which Peter Piper was alleged to have picked; so, in this case, it was held psychologically
important to know why Miss Landless's brother threw a bottle, knife, or fork-or bottle, knife,
AND fork-- for the cook had been given to understand it was all three--at Mr. Edwin Drood?

Well, then.  Miss Landless's brother had said he admired Miss Bud. Mr. Edwin Drood had said
to Miss Landless's brother that he had no business to admire Miss Bud.  Miss Landless's brother
had then 'up'd' (this was the cook's exact information) with the bottle, knife, fork, and decanter
(the decanter now coolly flying at everybody's head, without the least introduction), and thrown
them all at Mr. Edwin Drood.

Poor little Rosa put a forefinger into each of her ears when these rumours began to circulate,
and retired into a corner, beseeching not to be told any more; but Miss Landless, begging permission
of Miss Twinkleton to go and speak with her brother, and pretty plainly showing that she would
take it if it were not given, struck out the more definite course of going to Mr. Crisparkle's
for accurate intelligence.

When she came back (being first closeted with Miss Twinkleton, in order that anything objectionable
in her tidings might be retained by that discreet filter), she imparted to Rosa only, what
had taken place; dwelling with a flushed cheek on the provocation her brother had received,
but almost limiting it to that last gross affront as crowning 'some other words between them,'
and, out of consideration for her new friend, passing lightly over the fact that the other
words had originated in her lover's taking things in general so very easily.  To Rosa direct,
she brought a petition from her brother that she would forgive him; and, having delivered it
with sisterly earnestness, made an end of the subject.

It was reserved for Miss Twinkleton to tone down the public mind of the Nuns' House.  That
lady, therefore, entering in a stately manner what plebeians might have called the school-room,
but what, in the patrician language of the head of the Nuns' House, was euphuistically, not
to say round-aboutedly, denominated 'the apartment allotted to study,' and saying with a forensic
air, 'Ladies!' all rose.  Mrs. Tisher at the same time grouped herself behind her chief, as
representing Queen Elizabeth's first historical female friend at Tilbury fort.  Miss Twinkleton
then proceeded to remark that Rumour, Ladies, had been represented by the bard of Avon--needless
were it to mention the immortal SHAKESPEARE, also called the Swan of his native river, not
improbably with some reference to the ancient superstition that that bird of graceful plumage
(Miss Jennings will please stand upright) sang sweetly on the approach of death, for which
we have no ornithological authority,--Rumour, Ladies, had been represented by that bard--hem! -

'who drew The celebrated Jew,'

as painted full of tongues.  Rumour in Cloisterham (Miss Ferdinand will honour me with her
attention) was no exception to the great limner's portrait of Rumour elsewhere.  A slight fracas
between two young gentlemen occurring last night within a hundred miles of these peaceful walls
(Miss Ferdinand, being apparently incorrigible, will have the kindness to write out this evening,
in the original language, the first four fables of our vivacious neighbour, Monsieur La Fontaine)
had been very grossly exaggerated by Rumour's voice.  In the first alarm and anxiety arising
from our sympathy with a sweet young friend, not wholly to be dissociated from one of the gladiators
in the bloodless arena in question (the impropriety of Miss Reynolds's appearing to stab herself
in the hand with a pin, is far too obvious, and too glaringly unladylike, to be pointed out),
we descended from our maiden elevation to discuss this uncongenial and this unfit theme.  Responsible
inquiries having assured us that it was but one of those 'airy nothings' pointed at by the
Poet (whose name and date of birth Miss Giggles will supply within half an hour), we would
now discard the subject, and concentrate our minds upon the grateful labours of the day.

But the subject so survived all day, nevertheless, that Miss Ferdinand got into new trouble
by surreptitiously clapping on a paper moustache at dinner-time, and going through the motions
of aiming a water-bottle at Miss Giggles, who drew a table-spoon in defence.

Now, Rosa thought of this unlucky quarrel a great deal, and thought of it with an uncomfortable
feeling that she was involved in it, as cause, or consequence, or what not, through being in
a false position altogether as to her marriage engagement.  Never free from such uneasiness
when she was with her affianced husband, it was not likely that she would be free from it when
they were apart.  To- day, too, she was cast in upon herself, and deprived of the relief of
talking freely with her new friend, because the quarrel had been with Helena's brother, and
Helena undisguisedly avoided the subject as a delicate and difficult one to herself.  At this
critical time, of all times, Rosa's guardian was announced as having come to see her.

Mr. Grewgious had been well selected for his trust, as a man of incorruptible integrity, but
certainly for no other appropriate quality discernible on the surface.  He was an arid, sandy
man, who, if he had been put into a grinding-mill, looked as if he would have ground immediately
into high-dried snuff.  He had a scanty flat crop of hair, in colour and consistency like some
very mangy yellow fur tippet; it was so unlike hair, that it must have been a wig, but for
the stupendous improbability of anybody's voluntarily sporting such a head.  The little play
of feature that his face presented, was cut deep into it, in a few hard curves that made it
more like work; and he had certain notches in his forehead, which looked as though Nature had
been about to touch them into sensibility or refinement, when she had impatiently thrown away
the chisel, and said:  'I really cannot be worried to finish off this man; let him go as he is.'

With too great length of throat at his upper end, and too much ankle-bone and heel at his lower;
with an awkward and hesitating manner; with a shambling walk; and with what is called a near
sight--which perhaps prevented his observing how much white cotton stocking he displayed to
the public eye, in contrast with his black suit--Mr. Grewgious still had some strange capacity
in him of making on the whole an agreeable impression.

Mr. Grewgious was discovered by his ward, much discomfited by being in Miss Twinkleton's company
in Miss Twinkleton's own sacred room. Dim forebodings of being examined in something, and not
coming well out of it, seemed to oppress the poor gentleman when found in these circumstances.

'My dear, how do you do?  I am glad to see you.  My dear, how much improved you are.  Permit
me to hand you a chair, my dear.'

Miss Twinkleton rose at her little writing-table, saying, with general sweetness, as to the
polite Universe:  'Will you permit me to retire?'

'By no means, madam, on my account.  I beg that you will not move.'

'I must entreat permission to MOVE,' returned Miss Twinkleton, repeating the word with a charming
grace; 'but I will not withdraw, since you are so obliging.  If I wheel my desk to this corner
window, shall I be in the way?'

'Madam!  In the way!'

'You are very kind.--Rosa, my dear, you will be under no restraint, I am sure.'

Here Mr. Grewgious, left by the fire with Rosa, said again:  'My dear, how do you do?  I am
glad to see you, my dear.'  And having waited for her to sit down, sat down himself.

'My visits,' said Mr. Grewgious, 'are, like those of the angels-- not that I compare myself
to an angel.'

'No, sir,' said Rosa.

'Not by any means,' assented Mr. Grewgious.  'I merely refer to my visits, which are few and
far between.  The angels are, we know very well, up-stairs.'

Miss Twinkleton looked round with a kind of stiff stare.

'I refer, my dear,' said Mr. Grewgious, laying his hand on Rosa's, as the possibility thrilled
through his frame of his otherwise seeming to take the awful liberty of calling Miss Twinkleton
my dear; 'I refer to the other young ladies.'

Miss Twinkleton resumed her writing.

Mr. Grewgious, with a sense of not having managed his opening point quite as neatly as he might
have desired, smoothed his head from back to front as if he had just dived, and were pressing
the water out--this smoothing action, however superfluous, was habitual with him--and took
a pocket-book from his coat-pocket, and a stump of black-lead pencil from his waistcoat-pocket.

'I made,' he said, turning the leaves:  'I made a guiding memorandum or so--as I usually do,
for I have no conversational powers whatever--to which I will, with your permission, my dear,
refer.  "Well and happy."  Truly.  You are well and happy, my dear? You look so.'

'Yes, indeed, sir,' answered Rosa.

'For which,' said Mr. Grewgious, with a bend of his head towards the corner window, 'our warmest
acknowledgments are due, and I am sure are rendered, to the maternal kindness and the constant
care and consideration of the lady whom I have now the honour to see before me.'

This point, again, made but a lame departure from Mr. Grewgious, and never got to its destination;
for, Miss Twinkleton, feeling that the courtesies required her to be by this time quite outside
the conversation, was biting the end of her pen, and looking upward, as waiting for the descent
of an idea from any member of the Celestial Nine who might have one to spare.

Mr. Grewgious smoothed his smooth head again, and then made another reference to his pocket-book;
lining out 'well and happy,' as disposed of.

'"Pounds, shillings, and pence," is my next note.  A dry subject for a young lady, but an important
subject too.  Life is pounds, shillings, and pence.  Death is--'  A sudden recollection of
the death of her two parents seemed to stop him, and he said in a softer tone, and evidently
inserting the negative as an after- thought:  'Death is NOT pounds, shillings, and pence.'

His voice was as hard and dry as himself, and Fancy might have ground it straight, like himself,
into high-dried snuff.  And yet, through the very limited means of expression that he possessed,
he seemed to express kindness.  If Nature had but finished him off, kindness might have been
recognisable in his face at this moment. But if the notches in his forehead wouldn't fuse together,
and if his face would work and couldn't play, what could he do, poor man!

'"Pounds, shillings, and pence."  You find your allowance always sufficient for your wants,
my dear?'

Rosa wanted for nothing, and therefore it was ample.

'And you are not in debt?'

Rosa laughed at the idea of being in debt.  It seemed, to her inexperience, a comical vagary
of the imagination.  Mr. Grewgious stretched his near sight to be sure that this was her view
of the case.  'Ah!' he said, as comment, with a furtive glance towards Miss Twinkleton, and
lining out pounds, shillings, and pence:  'I spoke of having got among the angels!  So I did!'

Rosa felt what his next memorandum would prove to be, and was blushing and folding a crease
in her dress with one embarrassed hand, long before he found it.

'"Marriage."  Hem!'  Mr. Grewgious carried his smoothing hand down over his eyes and nose,
and even chin, before drawing his chair a little nearer, and speaking a little more confidentially:
'I now touch, my dear, upon the point that is the direct cause of my troubling you with the
present visit.  Othenwise, being a particularly Angular man, I should not have intruded here.
I am the last man to intrude into a sphere for which I am so entirely unfitted.  I feel, on
these premises, as if I was a bear--with the cramp--in a youthful Cotillon.'

His ungainliness gave him enough of the air of his simile to set Rosa off laughing heartily.

'It strikes you in the same light,' said Mr. Grewgious, with perfect calmness.  'Just so. 
To return to my memorandum.  Mr. Edwin has been to and fro here, as was arranged.  You have
mentioned that, in your quarterly letters to me.  And you like him, and he likes you.'

'I LIKE him very much, sir,' rejoined Rosa.

'So I said, my dear,' returned her guardian, for whose ear the timid emphasis was much too
fine.  'Good.  And you correspond.'

'We write to one another,' said Rosa, pouting, as she recalled their epistolary differences.

'Such is the meaning that I attach to the word "correspond" in this application, my dear,'
said Mr. Grewgious.  'Good.  All goes well, time works on, and at this next Christmas-time
it will become necessary, as a matter of form, to give the exemplary lady in the corner window,
to whom we are so much indebted, business notice of your departure in the ensuing half-year.
Your relations with her are far more than business relations, no doubt; but a residue of business
remains in them, and business is business ever.  I am a particularly Angular man,' proceeded
Mr. Grewgious, as if it suddenly occurred to him to mention it, 'and I am not used to give
anything away.  If, for these two reasons, some competent Proxy would give YOU away, I should
take it very kindly.'

Rosa intimated, with her eyes on the ground, that she thought a substitute might be found,
if required.

'Surely, surely,' said Mr. Grewgious.  'For instance, the gentleman who teaches Dancing here--he
would know how to do it with graceful propriety.  He would advance and retire in a manner satisfactory
to the feelings of the officiating clergyman, and of yourself, and the bridegroom, and all
parties concerned.  I am--I am a particularly Angular man,' said Mr. Grewgious, as if he had
made up his mind to screw it out at last:  'and should only blunder.'

Rosa sat still and silent.  Perhaps her mind had not got quite so far as the ceremony yet,
but was lagging on the way there.

'Memorandum, "Will."  Now, my dear,' said Mr. Grewgious, referring to his notes, disposing
of 'Marriage' with his pencil, and taking a paper from his pocket; 'although.  I have before
possessed you with the contents of your father's will, I think it right at this time to leave
a certified copy of it in your hands.  And although Mr. Edwin is also aware of its contents,
I think it right at this time likewise to place a certified copy of it in Mr. Jasper's hand--'

'Not in his own!' asked Rosa, looking up quickly.  'Cannot the copy go to Eddy himself?'

'Why, yes, my dear, if you particularly wish it; but I spoke of Mr. Jasper as being his trustee.'

'I do particularly wish it, if you please,' said Rosa, hurriedly and earnestly; 'I don't like
Mr. Jasper to come between us, in any way.'

'It is natural, I suppose,' said Mr. Grewgious, 'that your young husband should be all in all.
Yes.  You observe that I say, I suppose.  The fact is, I am a particularly Unnatural man, and
I don't know from my own knowledge.'

Rosa looked at him with some wonder.

'I mean,' he explained, 'that young ways were never my ways.  I was the only offspring of parents
far advanced in life, and I half believe I was born advanced in life myself.  No personality
is intended towards the name you will so soon change, when I remark that while the general
growth of people seem to have come into existence, buds, I seem to have come into existence
a chip.  I was a chip--and a very dry one--when I first became aware of myself. Respecting
the other certified copy, your wish shall be complied with.  Respecting your inheritance, I
think you know all.  It is an annuity of two hundred and fifty pounds.  The savings upon that
annuity, and some other items to your credit, all duly carried to account, with vouchers, will
place you in possession of a lump-sum of money, rather exceeding Seventeen Hundred Pounds.
I am empowered to advance the cost of your preparations for your marriage out of that fund.
All is told.'

'Will you please tell me,' said Rosa, taking the paper with a prettily knitted brow, but not
opening it:  'whether I am right in what I am going to say?  I can understand what you tell
me, so very much better than what I read in law-writings.  My poor papa and Eddy's father made
their agreement together, as very dear and firm and fast friends, in order that we, too, might
be very dear and firm and fast friends after them?'

'Just so.'

'For the lasting good of both of us, and the lasting happiness of both of us?'

'Just so.'

'That we might be to one another even much more than they had been to one another?'

'Just so.'

'It was not bound upon Eddy, and it was not bound upon me, by any forfeit, in case--'

'Don't be agitated, my dear.  In the case that it brings tears into your affectionate eyes
even to picture to yourself--in the case of your not marrying one another--no, no forfeiture
on either side. You would then have been my ward until you were of age.  No worse would have
befallen you.  Bad enough perhaps!'

'And Eddy?'

'He would have come into his partnership derived from his father, and into its arrears to his
credit (if any), on attaining his majority, just as now.'

Rosa, with her perplexed face and knitted brow, bit the corner of her attested copy, as she
sat with her head on one side, looking abstractedly on the floor, and smoothing it with her foot.

'In short,' said Mr. Grewgious, 'this betrothal is a wish, a sentiment, a friendly project,
tenderly expressed on both sides. That it was strongly felt, and that there was a lively hope
that it would prosper, there can be no doubt.  When you were both children, you began to be
accustomed to it, and it HAS prospered.  But circumstances alter cases; and I made this visit
to-day, partly, indeed principally, to discharge myself of the duty of telling you, my dear,
that two young people can only be betrothed in marriage (except as a matter of convenience,
and therefore mockery and misery) of their own free will, their own attachment, and their own
assurance (it may or it may not prove a mistaken one, but we must take our chance of that),
that they are suited to each other, and will make each other happy.  Is it to be supposed,
for example, that if either of your fathers were living now, and had any mistrust on that subject,
his mind would not be changed by the change of circumstances involved in the change of your
years? Untenable, unreasonable, inconclusive, and preposterous!'

Mr. Grewgious said all this, as if he were reading it aloud; or, still more, as if he were
repeating a lesson.  So expressionless of any approach to spontaneity were his face and manner.

'I have now, my dear,' he added, blurring out 'Will' with his pencil, 'discharged myself of
what is doubtless a formal duty in this case, but still a duty in such a case.  Memorandum,
"Wishes." My dear, is there any wish of yours that I can further?'

Rosa shook her head, with an almost plaintive air of hesitation in want of help.

'Is there any instruction that I can take from you with reference to your affairs?'

'I--I should like to settle them with Eddy first, if you please,' said Rosa, plaiting the crease
in her dress.

'Surely, surely,' returned Mr. Grewgious.  'You two should be of one mind in all things.  Is
the young gentleman expected shortly?'

'He has gone away only this morning.  He will be back at Christmas.'

'Nothing could happen better.  You will, on his return at Christmas, arrange all matters of
detail with him; you will then communicate with me; and I will discharge myself (as a mere
business acquaintance) of my business responsibilities towards the accomplished lady in the
corner window.  They will accrue at that season.'  Blurring pencil once again.  'Memorandum,
"Leave."  Yes. I will now, my dear, take my leave.'

'Could I,' said Rosa, rising, as he jerked out of his chair in his ungainly way:  'could I
ask you, most kindly to come to me at Christmas, if I had anything particular to say to you?'

'Why, certainly, certainly,' he rejoined; apparently--if such a word can be used of one who
had no apparent lights or shadows about him--complimented by the question.  'As a particularly
Angular man, I do not fit smoothly into the social circle, and consequently I have no other
engagement at Christmas-time than to partake, on the twenty-fifth, of a boiled turkey and celery
sauce with a--with a particularly Angular clerk I have the good fortune to possess, whose father,
being a Norfolk farmer, sends him up (the turkey up), as a present to me, from the neighbourhood
of Norwich.  I should be quite proud of your wishing to see me, my dear.  As a professional
Receiver of rents, so very few people DO wish to see me, that the novelty would be bracing.'

For his ready acquiescence, the grateful Rosa put her hands upon his shoulders, stood on tiptoe,
and instantly kissed him.

'Lord bless me!' cried Mr. Grewgious.  'Thank you, my dear!  The honour is almost equal to
the pleasure.  Miss Twinkleton, madam, I have had a most satisfactory conversation with my
ward, and I will now release you from the incumbrance of my presence.'

'Nay, sir,' rejoined Miss Twinkleton, rising with a gracious condescension:  'say not incumbrance.
Not so, by any means.  I cannot permit you to say so.'

'Thank you, madam.  I have read in the newspapers,' said Mr. Grewgious, stammering a little,
'that when a distinguished visitor (not that I am one:  far from it) goes to a school (not
that this is one:  far from it), he asks for a holiday, or some sort of grace.  It being now
the afternoon in the--College--of which you are the eminent head, the young ladies might gain
nothing, except in name, by having the rest of the day allowed them.  But if there is any young
lady at all under a cloud, might I solicit--'

'Ah, Mr. Grewgious, Mr. Grewgious!' cried Miss Twinkleton, with a chastely-rallying forefinger.
'O you gentlemen, you gentlemen! Fie for shame, that you are so hard upon us poor maligned
disciplinarians of our sex, for your sakes!  But as Miss Ferdinand is at present weighed down
by an incubus'--Miss Twinkleton might have said a pen-and-ink-ubus of writing out Monsieur
La Fontaine-- 'go to her, Rosa my dear, and tell her the penalty is remitted, in deference
to the intercession of your guardian, Mr. Grewgious.'

Miss Twinkleton here achieved a curtsey, suggestive of marvels happening to her respected legs,
and which she came out of nobly, three yards behind her starting-point.

As he held it incumbent upon him to call on Mr. Jasper before leaving Cloisterham, Mr. Grewgious
went to the gatehouse, and climbed its postern stair.  But Mr. Jasper's door being closed,
and presenting on a slip of paper the word 'Cathedral,' the fact of its being service-time
was borne into the mind of Mr. Grewgious.  So he descended the stair again, and, crossing the
Close, paused at the great western folding-door of the Cathedral, which stood open on the fine
and bright, though short-lived, afternoon, for the airing of the place. Within the grill-gate
of the chancel, up the steps surmounted loomingly by the fast-darkening organ, white robes
could be dimly seen, and one feeble voice, rising and falling in a cracked, monotonous mutter,
could at intervals be faintly heard.  In the free outer air, the river, the green pastures,
and the brown arable lands, the teeming hills and dales, were reddened by the sunset: while
the distant little windows in windmills and farm homesteads, shone, patches of bright beaten
gold.  In the Cathedral, all became gray, murky, and sepulchral, and the cracked monotonous
mutter went on like a dying voice, until the organ and the choir burst forth, and drowned it
in a sea of music.  Then, the sea fell, and the dying voice made another feeble effort, and
then the sea rose high, and beat its life out, and lashed the roof, and surged among the arches,
and pierced the heights of the great tower; and then the sea was dry, and all was still.

Mr. Grewgious had by that time walked to the chancel-steps, where he met the living waters
coming out.

'Nothing is the matter?'  Thus Jasper accosted him, rather quickly. 'You have not been sent for?'

'Not at all, not at all.  I came down of my own accord.  I have been to my pretty ward's, and
am now homeward bound again.'

'You found her thriving?'

'Blooming indeed.  Most blooming.  I merely came to tell her, seriously, what a betrothal by
deceased parents is.'

'And what is it--according to your judgment?'

Mr. Grewgious noticed the whiteness of the lips that asked the question, and put it down to
the chilling account of the Cathedral.

'I merely came to tell her that it could not be considered binding, against any such reason
for its dissolution as a want of affection, or want of disposition to carry it into effect,
on the side of either party.'

'May I ask, had you any especial reason for telling her that?'

Mr. Grewgious answered somewhat sharply:  'The especial reason of doing my duty, sir.  Simply
that.'  Then he added:  'Come, Mr. Jasper; I know your affection for your nephew, and that
you are quick to feel on his behalf.  I assure you that this implies not the least doubt of,
or disrespect to, your nephew.'

'You could not,' returned Jasper, with a friendly pressure of his arm, as they walked on side
by side, 'speak more handsomely.'

Mr. Grewgious pulled off his hat to smooth his head, and, having smoothed it, nodded it contentedly,
and put his hat on again.

'I will wager,' said Jasper, smiling--his lips were still so white that he was conscious of
it, and bit and moistened them while speaking:  'I will wager that she hinted no wish to be
released from Ned.'

'And you will win your wager, if you do,' retorted Mr. Grewgious. 'We should allow some margin
for little maidenly delicacies in a young motherless creature, under such circumstances, I
suppose; it is not in my line; what do you think?'

'There can be no doubt of it.'

'I am glad you say so.  Because,' proceeded Mr. Grewgious, who had all this time very knowingly
felt his way round to action on his remembrance of what she had said of Jasper himself:  'because
she seems to have some little delicate instinct that all preliminary arrangements had best
be made between Mr. Edwin Drood and herself, don't you see?  She don't want us, don't you know?'

Jasper touched himself on the breast, and said, somewhat indistinctly:  'You mean me.'

Mr. Grewgious touched himself on the breast, and said:  'I mean us. Therefore, let them have
their little discussions and councils together, when Mr. Edwin Drood comes back here at Christmas;
and then you and I will step in, and put the final touches to the business.'

'So, you settled with her that you would come back at Christmas?' observed Jasper.  'I see!
Mr. Grewgious, as you quite fairly said just now, there is such an exceptional attachment between
my nephew and me, that I am more sensitive for the dear, fortunate, happy, happy fellow than
for myself.  But it is only right that the young lady should be considered, as you have pointed
out, and that I should accept my cue from you.  I accept it.  I understand that at Christmas
they will complete their preparations for May, and that their marriage will be put in final
train by themselves, and that nothing will remain for us but to put ourselves in train also,
and have everything ready for our formal release from our trusts, on Edwin's birthday.'

'That is my understanding,' assented Mr. Grewgious, as they shook hands to part.  'God bless
them both!'

'God save them both!' cried Jasper.

'I said, bless them,' remarked the former, looking back over his shoulder.

'I said, save them,' returned the latter.  'Is there any difference?'

CHAPTER X--SMOOTHING THE WAY

It has been often enough remarked that women have a curious power of divining the characters
of men, which would seem to be innate and instinctive; seeing that it is arrived at through
no patient process of reasoning, that it can give no satisfactory or sufficient account of
itself, and that it pronounces in the most confident manner even against accumulated observation
on the part of the other sex.  But it has not been quite so often remarked that this power
(fallible, like every other human attribute) is for the most part absolutely incapable of self-revision;
and that when it has delivered an adverse opinion which by all human lights is subsequently
proved to have failed, it is undistinguishable from prejudice, in respect of its determination
not to be corrected. Nay, the very possibility of contradiction or disproof, however remote,
communicates to this feminine judgment from the first, in nine cases out of ten, the weakness
attendant on the testimony of an interested witness; so personally and strongly does the fair
diviner connect herself with her divination.

'Now, don't you think, Ma dear,' said the Minor Canon to his mother one day as she sat at her
knitting in his little book-room, 'that you are rather hard on Mr. Neville?'

'No, I do NOT, Sept,' returned the old lady.

'Let us discuss it, Ma.'

'I have no objection to discuss it, Sept.  I trust, my dear, I am always open to discussion.'
There was a vibration in the old lady's cap, as though she internally added:  'and I should
like to see the discussion that would change MY mind!'

'Very good, Ma,' said her conciliatory son.  'There is nothing like being open to discussion.'

'I hope not, my dear,' returned the old lady, evidently shut to it.

'Well!  Mr. Neville, on that unfortunate occasion, commits himself under provocation.'

'And under mulled wine,' added the old lady.

'I must admit the wine.  Though I believe the two young men were much alike in that regard.'

'I don't,' said the old lady.

'Why not, Ma?'

'Because I DON'T,' said the old lady.  'Still, I am quite open to discussion.'

'But, my dear Ma, I cannot see how we are to discuss, if you take that line.'

'Blame Mr. Neville for it, Sept, and not me,' said the old lady, with stately severity.

'My dear Ma! why Mr. Neville?'

'Because,' said Mrs. Crisparkle, retiring on first principles, 'he came home intoxicated, and
did great discredit to this house, and showed great disrespect to this family.'

'That is not to be denied, Ma.  He was then, and he is now, very sorry for it.'

'But for Mr. Jasper's well-bred consideration in coming up to me, next day, after service,
in the Nave itself, with his gown still on, and expressing his hope that I had not been greatly
alarmed or had my rest violently broken, I believe I might never have heard of that disgraceful
transaction,' said the old lady.

'To be candid, Ma, I think I should have kept it from you if I could:  though I had not decidedly
made up my mind.  I was following Jasper out, to confer with him on the subject, and to consider
the expediency of his and my jointly hushing the thing up on all accounts, when I found him
speaking to you.  Then it was too late.'

'Too late, indeed, Sept.  He was still as pale as gentlemanly ashes at what had taken place
in his rooms overnight.'

'If I HAD kept it from you, Ma, you may be sure it would have been for your peace and quiet,
and for the good of the young men, and in my best discharge of my duty according to my lights.'

The old lady immediately walked across the room and kissed him: saying, 'Of course, my dear
Sept, I am sure of that.'

'However, it became the town-talk,' said Mr. Crisparkle, rubbing his ear, as his mother resumed
her seat, and her knitting, 'and passed out of my power.'

'And I said then, Sept,' returned the old lady, 'that I thought ill of Mr. Neville.  And I
say now, that I think ill of Mr. Neville. And I said then, and I say now, that I hope Mr. Neville
may come to good, but I don't believe he will.'  Here the cap vibrated again considerably.

'I am sorry to hear you say so, Ma--'

'I am sorry to say so, my dear,' interposed the old lady, knitting on firmly, 'but I can't
help it.'

'--For,' pursued the Minor Canon, 'it is undeniable that Mr. Neville is exceedingly industrious
and attentive, and that he improves apace, and that he has--I hope I may say--an attachment to me.'

'There is no merit in the last article, my dear,' said the old lady, quickly; 'and if he says
there is, I think the worse of him for the boast.'

'But, my dear Ma, he never said there was.'

'Perhaps not,' returned the old lady; 'still, I don't see that it greatly signifies.'

There was no impatience in the pleasant look with which Mr. Crisparkle contemplated the pretty
old piece of china as it knitted; but there was, certainly, a humorous sense of its not being
a piece of china to argue with very closely.

'Besides, Sept, ask yourself what he would be without his sister. You know what an influence
she has over him; you know what a capacity she has; you know that whatever he reads with you,
he reads with her.  Give her her fair share of your praise, and how much do you leave for him?'

At these words Mr. Crisparkle fell into a little reverie, in which he thought of several things.
He thought of the times he had seen the brother and sister together in deep converse over one
of his own old college books; now, in the rimy mornings, when he made those sharpening pilgrimages
to Cloisterham Weir; now, in the sombre evenings, when he faced the wind at sunset, having
climbed his favourite outlook, a beetling fragment of monastery ruin; and the two studious
figures passed below him along the margin of the river, in which the town fires and lights
already shone, making the landscape bleaker.  He thought how the consciousness had stolen upon
him that in teaching one, he was teaching two; and how he had almost insensibly adapted his
explanations to both minds--that with which his own was daily in contact, and that which he
only approached through it.  He thought of the gossip that had reached him from the Nuns' House,
to the effect that Helena, whom he had mistrusted as so proud and fierce, submitted herself
to the fairy- bride (as he called her), and learnt from her what she knew.  He thought of the
picturesque alliance between those two, externally so very different.  He thought--perhaps
most of all--could it be that these things were yet but so many weeks old, and had become an
integral part of his life?

As, whenever the Reverend Septimus fell a-musing, his good mother took it to be an infallible
sign that he 'wanted support,' the blooming old lady made all haste to the dining-room closet,
to produce from it the support embodied in a glass of Constantia and a home-made biscuit. 
It was a most wonderful closet, worthy of Cloisterham and of Minor Canon Corner.  No common
closet with a vulgar door on hinges, openable all at once, and leaving nothing to be disclosed
by degrees, this rare closet had a lock in mid-air, where two perpendicular slides met; the
one falling down, and the other pushing up.  The upper slide, on being pulled down (leaving
the lower a double mystery), revealed deep shelves of pickle-jars, jam- pots, tin canisters,
spice-boxes, and agreeably outlandish vessels of blue and white, the luscious lodgings of preserved
tamarinds and ginger.  Every benevolent inhabitant of this retreat had his name inscribed upon
his stomach.  The pickles, in a uniform of rich brown double-breasted buttoned coat, and yellow
or sombre drab continuations, announced their portly forms, in printed capitals, as Walnut,
Gherkin, Onion, Cabbage, Cauliflower, Mixed, and other members of that noble family.  The jams,
as being of a less masculine temperament, and as wearing curlpapers, announced themselves in
feminine caligraphy, like a soft whisper, to be Raspberry, Gooseberry, Apricot, Plum, Damson,
Apple, and Peach. The scene closing on these charmers, and the lower slide ascending, oranges
were revealed, attended by a mighty japanned sugar-box, to temper their acerbity if unripe.
Home-made biscuits waited at the Court of these Powers, accompanied by a goodly fragment of
plum- cake, and various slender ladies' fingers, to be dipped into sweet wine and kissed. 
Lowest of all, a compact leaden-vault enshrined the sweet wine and a stock of cordials:  whence
issued whispers of Seville Orange, Lemon, Almond, and Caraway-seed.  There was a crowning air
upon this closet of closets, of having been for ages hummed through by the Cathedral bell and
organ, until those venerable bees had made sublimated honey of everything in store; and it
was always observed that every dipper among the shelves (deep, as has been noticed, and swallowing
up head, shoulders, and elbows) came forth again mellow-faced, and seeming to have undergone
a saccharine transfiguration.

The Reverend Septimus yielded himself up quite as willing a victim to a nauseous medicinal
herb-closet, also presided over by the china shepherdess, as to this glorious cupboard.  To
what amazing infusions of gentian, peppermint, gilliflower, sage, parsley, thyme, rue, rosemary,
and dandelion, did his courageous stomach submit itself!  In what wonderful wrappers, enclosing
layers of dried leaves, would he swathe his rosy and contented face, if his mother suspected
him of a toothache!  What botanical blotches would he cheerfully stick upon his cheek, or forehead,
if the dear old lady convicted him of an imperceptible pimple there!  Into this herbaceous
penitentiary, situated on an upper staircase-landing:  a low and narrow whitewashed cell, where
bunches of dried leaves hung from rusty hooks in the ceiling, and were spread out upon shelves,
in company with portentous bottles:  would the Reverend Septimus submissively be led, like
the highly popular lamb who has so long and unresistingly been led to the slaughter, and there
would he, unlike that lamb, bore nobody but himself.  Not even doing that much, so that the
old lady were busy and pleased, he would quietly swallow what was given him, merely taking
a corrective dip of hands and face into the great bowl of dried rose-leaves, and into the other
great bowl of dried lavender, and then would go out, as confident in the sweetening powers
of Cloisterham Weir and a wholesome mind, as Lady Macbeth was hopeless of those of all the
seas that roll.

In the present instance the good Minor Canon took his glass of Constantia with an excellent
grace, and, so supported to his mother's satisfaction, applied himself to the remaining duties
of the day.  In their orderly and punctual progress they brought round Vesper Service and twilight.
The Cathedral being very cold, he set off for a brisk trot after service; the trot to end in
a charge at his favourite fragment of ruin, which was to be carried by storm, without a pause
for breath.

He carried it in a masterly manner, and, not breathed even then, stood looking down upon the
river.  The river at Cloisterham is sufficiently near the sea to throw up oftentimes a quantity
of seaweed.  An unusual quantity had come in with the last tide, and this, and the confusion
of the water, and the restless dipping and flapping of the noisy gulls, and an angry light
out seaward beyond the brown-sailed barges that were turning black, foreshadowed a stormy night.
In his mind he was contrasting the wild and noisy sea with the quiet harbour of Minor Canon
Corner, when Helena and Neville Landless passed below him.  He had had the two together in
his thoughts all day, and at once climbed down to speak to them together.  The footing was
rough in an uncertain light for any tread save that of a good climber; but the Minor Canon
was as good a climber as most men, and stood beside them before many good climbers would have
been half-way down.

'A wild evening, Miss Landless!  Do you not find your usual walk with your brother too exposed
and cold for the time of year?  Or at all events, when the sun is down, and the weather is
driving in from the sea?'

Helena thought not.  It was their favourite walk.  It was very retired.

'It is very retired,' assented Mr. Crisparkle, laying hold of his opportunity straightway,
and walking on with them.  'It is a place of all others where one can speak without interruption,
as I wish to do.  Mr. Neville, I believe you tell your sister everything that passes between us?'

'Everything, sir.'

'Consequently,' said Mr. Crisparkle, 'your sister is aware that I have repeatedly urged you
to make some kind of apology for that unfortunate occurrence which befell on the night of your
arrival here.'  In saying it he looked to her, and not to him; therefore it was she, and not
he, who replied:

'Yes.'

'I call it unfortunate, Miss Helena,' resumed Mr. Crisparkle, 'forasmuch as it certainly has
engendered a prejudice against Neville.  There is a notion about, that he is a dangerously
passionate fellow, of an uncontrollable and furious temper:  he is really avoided as such.'

'I have no doubt he is, poor fellow,' said Helena, with a look of proud compassion at her brother,
expressing a deep sense of his being ungenerously treated.  'I should be quite sure of it,
from your saying so; but what you tell me is confirmed by suppressed hints and references that
I meet with every day.'

'Now,' Mr. Crisparkle again resumed, in a tone of mild though firm persuasion, 'is not this
to be regretted, and ought it not to be amended?  These are early days of Neville's in Cloisterham,
and I have no fear of his outliving such a prejudice, and proving himself to have been misunderstood.
But how much wiser to take action at once, than to trust to uncertain time!  Besides, apart
from its being politic, it is right.  For there can be no question that Neville was wrong.'

'He was provoked,' Helena submitted.

'He was the assailant,' Mr. Crisparkle submitted.

They walked on in silence, until Helena raised her eyes to the Minor Canon's face, and said,
almost reproachfully:  'O Mr. Crisparkle, would you have Neville throw himself at young Drood's
feet, or at Mr. Jasper's, who maligns him every day?  In your heart you cannot mean it.  From
your heart you could not do it, if his case were yours.'

'I have represented to Mr. Crisparkle, Helena,' said Neville, with a glance of deference towards
his tutor, 'that if I could do it from my heart, I would.  But I cannot, and I revolt from
the pretence.  You forget however, that to put the case to Mr. Crisparkle as his own, is to
suppose to have done what I did.'

'I ask his pardon,' said Helena.

'You see,' remarked Mr. Crisparkle, again laying hold of his opportunity, though with a moderate
and delicate touch, 'you both instinctively acknowledge that Neville did wrong.  Then why stop
short, and not otherwise acknowledge it?'

'Is there no difference,' asked Helena, with a little faltering in her manner; 'between submission
to a generous spirit, and submission to a base or trivial one?'

Before the worthy Minor Canon was quite ready with his argument in reference to this nice distinction,
Neville struck in:

'Help me to clear myself with Mr. Crisparkle, Helena.  Help me to convince him that I cannot
be the first to make concessions without mockery and falsehood.  My nature must be changed
before I can do so, and it is not changed.  I am sensible of inexpressible affront, and deliberate
aggravation of inexpressible affront, and I am angry.  The plain truth is, I am still as angry
when I recall that night as I was that night.'

'Neville,' hinted the Minor Canon, with a steady countenance, 'you have repeated that former
action of your hands, which I so much dislike.'

'I am sorry for it, sir, but it was involuntary.  I confessed that I was still as angry.'

'And I confess,' said Mr. Crisparkle, 'that I hoped for better things.'

'I am sorry to disappoint you, sir, but it would be far worse to deceive you, and I should
deceive you grossly if I pretended that you had softened me in this respect.  The time may
come when your powerful influence will do even that with the difficult pupil whose antecedents
you know; but it has not come yet.  Is this so, and in spite of my struggles against myself,
Helena?'

She, whose dark eyes were watching the effect of what he said on Mr. Crisparkle's face, replied--to
Mr. Crisparkle, not to him:  'It is so.'  After a short pause, she answered the slightest look
of inquiry conceivable, in her brother's eyes, with as slight an affirmative bend of her own
head; and he went on:

'I have never yet had the courage to say to you, sir, what in full openness I ought to have
said when you first talked with me on this subject.  It is not easy to say, and I have been
withheld by a fear of its seeming ridiculous, which is very strong upon me down to this last
moment, and might, but for my sister, prevent my being quite open with you even now.--I admire
Miss Bud, sir, so very much, that I cannot bear her being treated with conceit or indifference;
and even if I did not feel that I had an injury against young Drood on my own account, I should
feel that I had an injury against him on hers.'

Mr. Crisparkle, in utter amazement, looked at Helena for corroboration, and met in her expressive
face full corroboration, and a plea for advice.

'The young lady of whom you speak is, as you know, Mr. Neville, shortly to be married,' said
Mr. Crisparkle, gravely; 'therefore your admiration, if it be of that special nature which
you seem to indicate, is outrageously misplaced.  Moreover, it is monstrous that you should
take upon yourself to be the young lady's champion against her chosen husband.  Besides, you
have seen them only once. The young lady has become your sister's friend; and I wonder that
your sister, even on her behalf, has not checked you in this irrational and culpable fancy.'

'She has tried, sir, but uselessly.  Husband or no husband, that fellow is incapable of the
feeling with which I am inspired towards the beautiful young creature whom he treats like a
doll.  I say he is as incapable of it, as he is unworthy of her.  I say she is sacrificed in
being bestowed upon him.  I say that I love her, and despise and hate him!'  This with a face
so flushed, and a gesture so violent, that his sister crossed to his side, and caught his arm,
remonstrating, 'Neville, Neville!'

Thus recalled to himself, he quickly became sensible of having lost the guard he had set upon
his passionate tendency, and covered his face with his hand, as one repentant and wretched.

Mr. Crisparkle, watching him attentively, and at the same time meditating how to proceed, walked
on for some paces in silence. Then he spoke:

'Mr. Neville, Mr. Neville, I am sorely grieved to see in you more traces of a character as
sullen, angry, and wild, as the night now closing in.  They are of too serious an aspect to
leave me the resource of treating the infatuation you have disclosed, as undeserving serious
consideration.  I give it very serious consideration, and I speak to you accordingly.  This
feud between you and young Drood must not go on.  I cannot permit it to go on any longer, knowing
what I now know from you, and you living under my roof.  Whatever prejudiced and unauthorised
constructions your blind and envious wrath may put upon his character, it is a frank, good-natured
character.  I know I can trust to it for that.  Now, pray observe what I am about to say. 
On reflection, and on your sister's representation, I am willing to admit that, in making peace
with young Drood, you have a right to be met half-way.  I will engage that you shall be, and
even that young Drood shall make the first advance.  This condition fulfilled, you will pledge
me the honour of a Christian gentleman that the quarrel is for ever at an end on your side.
What may be in your heart when you give him your hand, can only be known to the Searcher of
all hearts; but it will never go well with you, if there be any treachery there.  So far, as
to that; next as to what I must again speak of as your infatuation.  I understand it to have
been confided to me, and to be known to no other person save your sister and yourself.  Do
I understand aright?'

Helena answered in a low voice:  'It is only known to us three who are here together.'

'It is not at all known to the young lady, your friend?'

'On my soul, no!'

'I require you, then, to give me your similar and solemn pledge, Mr. Neville, that it shall
remain the secret it is, and that you will take no other action whatsoever upon it than endeavouring
(and that most earnestly) to erase it from your mind.  I will not tell you that it will soon
pass; I will not tell you that it is the fancy of the moment; I will not tell you that such
caprices have their rise and fall among the young and ardent every hour; I will leave you undisturbed
in the belief that it has few parallels or none, that it will abide with you a long time, and
that it will be very difficult to conquer.  So much the more weight shall I attach to the pledge
I require from you, when it is unreservedly given.'

The young man twice or thrice essayed to speak, but failed.

'Let me leave you with your sister, whom it is time you took home,' said Mr. Crisparkle.  'You
will find me alone in my room by-and- by.'

'Pray do not leave us yet,' Helena implored him.  'Another minute.'

'I should not,' said Neville, pressing his hand upon his face, 'have needed so much as another
minute, if you had been less patient with me, Mr. Crisparkle, less considerate of me, and less
unpretendingly good and true.  O, if in my childhood I had known such a guide!'

'Follow your guide now, Neville,' murmured Helena, 'and follow him to Heaven!'

There was that in her tone which broke the good Minor Canon's voice, or it would have repudiated
her exaltation of him.  As it was, he laid a finger on his lips, and looked towards her brother.

'To say that I give both pledges, Mr. Crisparkle, out of my innermost heart, and to say that
there is no treachery in it, is to say nothing!'  Thus Neville, greatly moved.  'I beg your
forgiveness for my miserable lapse into a burst of passion.'

'Not mine, Neville, not mine.  You know with whom forgiveness lies, as the highest attribute
conceivable.  Miss Helena, you and your brother are twin children.  You came into this world
with the same dispositions, and you passed your younger days together surrounded by the same
adverse circumstances.  What you have overcome in yourself, can you not overcome in him?  You
see the rock that lies in his course.  Who but you can keep him clear of it?'

'Who but you, sir?' replied Helena.  'What is my influence, or my weak wisdom, compared with
yours!'

'You have the wisdom of Love,' returned the Minor Canon, 'and it was the highest wisdom ever
known upon this earth, remember.  As to mine--but the less said of that commonplace commodity
the better. Good night!'

She took the hand he offered her, and gratefully and almost reverently raised it to her lips.

'Tut!' said the Minor Canon softly, 'I am much overpaid!' and turned away.

Retracing his steps towards the Cathedral Close, he tried, as he went along in the dark, to
think out the best means of bringing to pass what he had promised to effect, and what must
somehow be done. 'I shall probably be asked to marry them,' he reflected, 'and I would they
were married and gone!  But this presses first.'

He debated principally whether he should write to young Drood, or whether he should speak to
Jasper.  The consciousness of being popular with the whole Cathedral establishment inclined
him to the latter course, and the well-timed sight of the lighted gatehouse decided him to
take it.  'I will strike while the iron is hot,' he said, 'and see him now.'

Jasper was lying asleep on a couch before the fire, when, having ascended the postern-stair,
and received no answer to his knock at the door, Mr. Crisparkle gently turned the handle and
looked in. Long afterwards he had cause to remember how Jasper sprang from the couch in a delirious
state between sleeping and waking, and crying out:  'What is the matter?  Who did it?'

'It is only I, Jasper.  I am sorry to have disturbed you.'

The glare of his eyes settled down into a look of recognition, and he moved a chair or two,
to make a way to the fireside.

'I was dreaming at a great rate, and am glad to be disturbed from an indigestive after-dinner
sleep.  Not to mention that you are always welcome.'

'Thank you.  I am not confident,' returned Mr. Crisparkle, as he sat himself down in the easy-chair
placed for him, 'that my subject will at first sight be quite as welcome as myself; but I am
a minister of peace, and I pursue my subject in the interests of peace.  In a word, Jasper,
I want to establish peace between these two young fellows.'

A very perplexed expression took hold of Mr. Jasper's face; a very perplexing expression too,
for Mr. Crisparkle could make nothing of it.

'How?' was Jasper's inquiry, in a low and slow voice, after a silence.

'For the "How" I come to you.  I want to ask you to do me the great favour and service of interposing
with your nephew (I have already interposed with Mr. Neville), and getting him to write you
a short note, in his lively way, saying that he is willing to shake hands. I know what a good-natured
fellow he is, and what influence you have with him.  And without in the least defending Mr.
Neville, we must all admit that he was bitterly stung.'

Jasper turned that perplexed face towards the fire.  Mr. Crisparkle continuing to observe it,
found it even more perplexing than before, inasmuch as it seemed to denote (which could hardly
be) some close internal calculation.

'I know that you are not prepossessed in Mr. Neville's favour,' the Minor Canon was going on,
when Jasper stopped him:

'You have cause to say so.  I am not, indeed.'

'Undoubtedly; and I admit his lamentable violence of temper, though I hope he and I will get
the better of it between us. 

"Living people", said a rough voice, "are still right outside, as they listen with great Joy to
my terrible story, and I even like to see them. Wake up out of your fear, or I'll scream that
the bars above and below you bend and break. "

"Well," said the mandrake under the skirts of the old "what he wants,
Baernhaeuter?

I want him . Listen "

"What you put mouse hole, a little boy?" asked the Baernhaeuter.

"Where you can not put big boobies," said the mandrake, "Hurry up, it will be me otherwise too
hot here, even bite me the butterflies, what do you want from us,
unsaubrer guest?

"

"Ah," said the Baernhaeuter, "I have so much in his lifetime love with my money I bricked the
rest here and here must stand guard after my death, give me my only pleasure out again. "

"Give it to him," whispered "so he does not turn our necks." The old woman,

"No," cried the little one, "you get out a penny, you have to abverdienen
him, you are but a strong guy who we can be useful insofar as you
have your body properly repaired pruning set, and fog can in order
to appear on earth as our servant.

"

"Ah," said the Baernhaeuter, "as regards the body, there are only a few cartilaginous in the veins
have been what I died, the cute I easily with a sharp knife down, it is only me a damn job, so
a small Stehauf, as you are in the world to serve: this is also a
harsh punishment for my greed.

"

"Look here," said the mandrake, and came out from under the skirts of the ancients, "I'm not exactly
one of small, but you're too big, and I do not know what I would prefer: a small can and einschmiegen
einkriechen, where a Big hinriechen not even allowed, in short, want to you serve me faithfully,
I pay you a ducat abundant all week until your treasure again together.

"

"I'm a contract," said the Baernhaeuter, "tomorrow night I'll come with my real Body, when
I get ready in time, back, next to me is the servant of a rich men buried with whom I want
to swap clothes, so does my silken doublet no Attention, and the
poor devil I do not begrudge the little joy probably be buried so
handsome to find when he gets up at the last day, he's always quiet
and tidy up on Snoring leads up a bit next to me.

"

"It's good," said the mandrake, the womenfolk here hears you still
do not particularly like to press your body, man!

"

"Good-bye now," said the Baernhaeuter, "it remains, but a ducat would Mietsgeld I probably beg,
I've added all sorts of little things the Totenwuermern I would like
to spend again.

"

"Here," said the mandrake and moved by force a ducat from the pile,
whereupon the Was old (the secretly whispered to him: give him the
half, it is enough), "there have you have the ducats, lead you on
the edge with me, it should not be your loss.

"

The Baernhaeuter disappeared, but it took a while before looking up and Bella Braka ventured. The small
Cornelius she laughed, and they could be some consideration defend against him. "If we do not
even just the big guy with all our Hophei davonlaeuft "said Braka.

"How can he," the mandrake, "it's just his great distress that he, as a ghost must keep his word,
you people do not need this if you are not your soul because after the death of fear. "

"Are you a ghost or a human, rather Cornelius?" Bella asked.

"I," stammered the mandrake, "this is a stupid question, I am me, and you are not me and I will
field marshal, and it is what you were, with those cursed, subtle Ask me is from my neck, when you
think about it, it takes a bubble in the brain, such as the horseradish on the skin. "

"How do you know because of the horseradish?" asked Braka.

"When I stood up there on the gallows as a horseradish plant stand next to me who did the always
a lot to benefit, that they could draw bubbles and that the eye went over to her, they called their
tragic effect. Good night, "cried at last," Braka, goodbye! Stand back and get me pretty soon only
the command staff. "When he went away, persuaded Braka everything still required for their migration,
invariably the next night be imposed.

The next evening Bella went back to the small garden, what they experienced, pressed her, every
branch seemed significant. The night when she saw the Archduke remembered it, he was even her but
omitted entirely, she could not imagine how he see out I also seemed to her the little worth,
she was pleased to enter into the world, but she was afraid, around them, and the feeling that
that would be it bad, what surprised them very painful; she was ashamed of her because she had
known her father, and all gratitude to Braka, all the joy that they have the welfare of the bold
and successful created Wurzelmaennchens cherished, could not inhibit
this shame.

She was the authority of their Egyptian strain in the blood, and she looked to the stars than
trusting to their ancestors and felt the summer of their Country is now in the cold of October,
where the Nile falls and all the work suggests, but they also knew
the old crimes of their people that they of the Holy Mother Mary on
her flight wanted to give no shelter to Egypt, when in her beatific
child strong Rain rode, but since this his hand was raised in a circle,
and over them was a rainbow, of a drop left to fall on them.

"Our debt is not yet atoned!" sigh Bella, and around the moon and
saw a beautiful colored circle that her heart aufjauchzte and prayed
without words.

"With what longing for my beloved father, Michael," Bella thought, "after those hills looked
to expect the first greeting the morning sun, and I will see her
again here in the silence before.

What they have with me, around me, shall I flee into the distance,
who as far as my feet myself, the world is nowhere closed!

"

The longing for the freedom she moved because her Braka whispered softly to her approached: "The
Baernhaeuter has already been sacked all of Cornelius rides on his
neck, do you still take it?

"

"Oh sure," said Bella, "then there are my puppets and the magic book."

"Oh, dear child," said the woman, "which has the rough Baernhaeuter of irrationality in all
the furnace thrown, was not only evil, be comforted. "

Bella looked down: "So I have to leave it all, which I've played."

"Yes, dear girl," said Braka and hugged her, "I told you have been
a few weeks want to say you're grown up now, every day can also take
a man, you looking forward to not Blitzmaedchen?

What is your bosom emerged as a fruit among leaves, and you have not noticed, look, the moon has
hinueberzurollen place, its rays.

"

"Old woman, are you mad?" Bella asked.

"Oh let me," said Braka, "it is night, and I also forget how I in all the world like hanging
around a flue brush, all the cobwebs, paid out all the dirt have that I'm dirty and stick.
Was once young and polite, and sang with our beautiful Youths rhyme and songs, and now I see
you as nothing at all and you know what happened to you because I think for you and look forward
for you. Look, you are now a big girl, and all you desire to go, and where you view, each
feels and what will at you, and when shalt stretch forth only one hand, it will be you hot in
the veins, they stutter and shy away and rush and rush and look at you and you then the other,
so beat she and her blood count for nothing against your blood and shed it for you. "

"Oh God," said Bella, "what a misfortune awaits me, I would rather run and hide like this me all
over the world! "

Braka held her and said, "do you want to flee, naughty child, if you look at the ever stand,
I will get back up already, as I whip up with nettles. You are still stupid like a log, if one says
the silly goose all the love and do, they do not understand a word; comes in now, we have given
him no time, another time I tell you everything! "

She pushed Bella the house, the strange moves of what they heard, even more of what you should
expect to be comforted over the loss of their books and dolls and
the Baernhaeuter watched them in awe hardly resembled a bear in his
brown Livrei on which the Alraun like a human dressed monkey rode
around to be seen at a county fair.

Braka led the way, Bella followed her, the Baernhaeuter slammed the door, all was quiet, Braka only
muttered to himself, if not the snow-covered path could see right. On Gallows Hill they saw the
big dance, she never returned to it, a couple of times they were Feldhuehner frightened by that
flew out of the snow. At last they saw the village Buik lie in a
depression, and Braka saw the light of their old thief sister, Nietken.

They

approached a quiet Gartentuer and Braka made their presence by shouting Wachtel known. It was
a little girl who looked at her, opened the door and led them in a basement and the cellar
stairs to a floor room, which by the door an adjoining room was illuminated. Braka was undaunted
in this second room lit up, where a fat old woman who was like a beautiful, green, silk dress, a place
Elke, because they are the same red every now and then some with her face and hands, some
with their shine through rotwollenen petticoat left, knelt before a small house altar of a
beautiful picture of Mother Mary and colorful candles was sanctified.

"Well, you old Sausack" said Braka, "you pray again, because you have drunk a lot and the Hiccups
not let me pass? "

Nietken woman, because that was the prayer, looked around, waved his hand and prayed her rosary
busily away. The Baernhaeuter was also voted to devotion, he knelt down, and Bella, the very beautiful
prayers knew, but Braka, all keys and opportunities of the House knew, took a big jug of beer
from a hard wall barrier and drink for all.

Meanwhile, the mandrake was all about ridiculous stuff in the room,
where old lace, cloth, Pans, linen lay in separate piles, so surprised
that he did not could see enough of it, everything was new to him,
but he knew how to interpret all soon.

Woman Nietken, a very extensive trade Troedlerin was gathered, the rarest Inventories of antiquities
of all kinds, since the house was also the smallest Hausgeraet not the nature of contiguous and
the house according to how you find it everywhere else, but from a very natural choice of people
who are always out of their purchases Useful had picked out, she had been to use only the most
adventurous, what the mood any time or for a rich man had created a particular case. The chairs
For example, in the attic were supported by wooden carrots, about each one more colorful Umbrella,
they were from the garden of a wealthy merchant of Ghent, the many shops had made in Africa. In the
middle of the room hung a strange twisted brass crown, otherwise
they had repealed the Jewish synagogue illuminated at Ghent, now put
a spiral Colorful wax candle in honor of the Virgin Mary on it.

The altar was actually a retired ripped game table, on which the leather Geldsaecke and a past
Salzmaeste with Holy water filled, was used. On the walls hung tapestries that old tournaments
constituted, the knights and armor hung down in the iron junk.

The good woman Nietken that her business, which is also sometimes about things gestohlne spread
that could be hiding in the house very easily, all crooks people of the area needed was a bosom
friend of Braka that you could very well talk to the mouth. No sooner had prayed their last Ave,
they rose in proportion to their body fat with great vigor, stood
there with arms mortised Braka ago and said, "Well, you old hag can
pray no longer good, they gave you your Herrgoettchen the Devil banned?

When will he get up? You old woman will, indeed all the days of wrinkled. Ugh, if I so looked like
you, I would not do over the field! "

"You are beautiful young", Braka yelled, "look like my old fat beef,
when I freshly shorn, and the white hair grow out of the red dash-looking
face; have safe drinking water today too much pepper.

Can you still dance Russian, you wonderful old Trumpeter face? "

"Heida that goes!" trumpeted Nietken wife and danced to all surprised,
as if they ausschlenkern the legs are slipped, then on his knees,
slapped on their flesh, to all broke out in a horrible laughter, and
she swore that her every bone in his body would be broken, and that
they would have to drink a glass of Spanish wine.

Now she looked first at the wine rest. When she saw Bella, she said to Braka, "Let me that I should
go on hand, what have you for the wickedness in mind is earn you the money? "Braka assured her
with quite respectful voice, it is their Rule.

"Who is the toad that?" asked Mrs. Nietken further and pointed to Cornelius.

"I'm the Field Marshal Cornelius" said the mandrake, they have more
respect for me Hahnenkamm old!

"

"Well," she continued, "the interests must be field marshal at the Underground, but who are for
thou hast Zeiselbaer old, even a Livrei, I should know about? Oh, yes, I have the Men Floris for
a new do, which he allowed his old servant, not in the grave. In the end the to steal not been
too bad, have you taken her from the grave You look after that! "

The Baernhaeuter they addressed, then, without answering her, handed her a firm slap, whereupon
the old woman was once very sober, and asked what they befoehlen.

Braka everything you could now make it clear what they needed to fine clothes and jewelry, and that
they wanted to be down very early in its best state car to Ghent to there any rent-free house
to live in Knight.

The excellent wife Nietken it was the same way that a lot had to make
this trade; So at the moment they woke her people and ran upstairs,
downstairs, around the most beautiful you visit.

Arms full of clothes they threw into the room because it was chosen and two suitcases filled
with laundry supplies they could only be more economical, because selling the Dutchman rather
her dress as her shirt. For after the suit was made for woman jumped induced Nietken lure with
a burning coal and iron to your hair according to the fashion.

Since it did not help, Bella showed her that the natural curls of her hair that was her fine
taste not good enough, it was the poor child as a devil's claw, it
is packed, as they hair wrapped around the hot iron pressed against
her hot forehead.

Bella's hair was back in spite of cutting long enough at that curls costume. Bella's princely
reputation , Ms. Nietken within certain bounds; Braka even when she
was washed and combed, had is finished, it seemed like a very dignified
old governess, because as a mother of beautiful Bella would have you
probably do not like to recognize by sight.

The vanity awoke in Braka in Bella not bad, and when she first put on her silk dresses, strutted
around in front of both implied the mirrors.

From the Field Marshal, Mrs. Nietken make the least. In vain she had to be coarse hair trimmed, he was
and remained the whole face-compressed form, high shoulders and the narrow language of a dwarf.
"Listen, kid," she said, "if you do not Dwarf are, so I am not an honest woman! "

"What," said Cornelius, "I am a man, and you call me a dwarf? What is a dwarf? "

"I really do not know," said Mrs. Nietken, "but you came to me as a dwarf, I think you could
make up for money to see! "

"It would be nice to me," said Cornelius, "maybe!" and said in his money-making nature, everything
would be paid for with money, even honorable, and that was a compliment to the good woman.

In the morning they were all decked out, Cornelius was in a dressing gown in the beautiful,
gold-plated Carriage carried his head was the wife of Braka, Miss Braka his legs, Baernhaeuter
sat on the box: so they went out with considerable palpitation, partly from fear, partly from
the clothes caught, because the new state would not fit right, but of course He was also pretty zusammengetroedelt
and yet so expensive that the Baernhaeuter about the Application of his treasure was secretly
sighed. When they had driven half an hour, Cornelius began to laugh violently and said: "The
old cat said that she cheated us right would have, but I've been introduced: in the old boots,
it has attracted me a nice jewelry with precious stones sewn, who knows this as they come to it's
not known, once the seam separates quite neatly with the knife. "

Braka made himself about it, cut to the cuffs and found the most precious
diamond chains the necklace, she took pleasure from the old custom
in the hair and perished thus half their head-dress, "Oh, how beautiful
the dress is me!" she said, made as to lay him down to her yellow
throat.

Cornelius, however, demanded that Bella should wear it, and it would perhaps come to a dispute
about it, if the proximity of the The attention of the old city would have not bound. Cornelius
hung the beautiful Bella undisturbed by the necklace that her future
was so important.

"Look at it, her children," Braka now called, "Do what is new and you do not heed it: see the richness
of love around the city, the freight cars move so wide that we can hardly avoid them. " But Cornelius
and Bella looked rather at the elegant horsemen who roamed their horses; after the sheep,
which were driven by the butchers to slaughter, a car full of calves,
the bleating pitifully superposed, frightened Bella, including the
noise from the Wirtshaeusern the suburbs, where the daily working
so early brought strife and fights had.

At last they came to the gate guard, a citizen came up with a halberd and asked where they
came. "From the land Hadeln!" Braka said in embarrassment, "I am woman of Braka, this is my daughter
and this is my nephew, Mr. Cornelius. "

"Driving," cried the sentinel, and the driver took her, while she triumphed trembling, that they
have been made by the guard no objection to the house on the market, the women Nietken to let
the order had, where they alighted, without all anxiously events and set up.

The first two months were spent to learn a noble creature, it was Teachers believed and what happened
in the old lady is not conduct sent, always the land Hadeln was accused, where the needles have
not quite deep was penetrated. Bella soon appeared in all their manners of high society alike; they
spoke Spanish with skill. So they stayed hidden, it was already the talk of young people who vorueberritten
every day outside the house to see her and her attention to attract. Mr. Cornelius was the worst
in his new position to wanted him comfortable with the tight clothes do not, and that made him
fall down fencing learning tired. On the train he was riding it with all the grim faces in
not quite Avoid not that about him was laughter as about a strange creature, the tamest horse were
wild with his eternal restlessness and threw him down. But he was not deter, He rose up again,
and repeated often times in an hour, no other Man would be able to withstand these shocks. Happier
he was left in his training; his teacher of rhetoric he often embarrassed by his eloquence and
angered him with his Jokes. He was sent to most people in their language, slander, but had no own
language, but he made his wicked will, which is punishable with many hidden perceive eye,
could a lot of friends who took him in and protect all people in
the Fuss with it a requirement that the children would take nothing
amiss, he was every local history presented, and he had to reproduce
it and lard it with ideas, it was further in Peripheral set that kind
of friction in the town was that finally the Archduke touched. The
Archduke had received the news that he had because of the letters
to his Grandfather Ferdinand exuberant title was disinherited from
it, as he was annoying came home because he was a supporting deer,
which he considered for a buck, shot had. 'I am a particularly Angular
man, and yet I fancy (if I may use the word, not having a morsel of fancy), that I could draw
a picture of a true lover's state of mind, to-night.'

'Let us follow you, sir,' said Bazzard, 'and have the picture.'

'Mr. Edwin will correct it where it's wrong,' resumed Mr. Grewgious, 'and will throw in a few
touches from the life.  I dare say it is wrong in many particulars, and wants many touches
from the life, for I was born a Chip, and have neither soft sympathies nor soft experiences.
Well!  I hazard the guess that the true lover's mind is completely permeated by the beloved
object of his affections.  I hazard the guess that her dear name is precious to him, cannot
be heard or repeated without emotion, and is preserved sacred.  If he has any distinguishing
appellation of fondness for her, it is reserved for her, and is not for common ears.  A name
that it would be a privilege to call her by, being alone with her own bright self, it would
be a liberty, a coldness, an insensibility, almost a breach of good faith, to flaunt elsewhere.'

It was wonderful to see Mr. Grewgious sitting bolt upright, with his hands on his knees, continuously
chopping this discourse out of himself:  much as a charity boy with a very good memory might
get his catechism said:  and evincing no correspondent emotion whatever, unless in a certain
occasional little tingling perceptible at the end of his nose.

'My picture,' Mr. Grewgious proceeded, 'goes on to represent (under correction from you, Mr.
Edwin), the true lover as ever impatient to be in the presence or vicinity of the beloved object
of his affections; as caring very little for his case in any other society; and as constantly
seeking that.  If I was to say seeking that, as a bird seeks its nest, I should make an ass
of myself, because that would trench upon what I understand to be poetry; and I am so far from
trenching upon poetry at any time, that I never, to my knowledge, got within ten thousand miles
of it.  And I am besides totally unacquainted with the habits of birds, except the birds of
Staple Inn, who seek their nests on ledges, and in gutter- pipes and chimneypots, not constructed
for them by the beneficent hand of Nature.  I beg, therefore, to be understood as foregoing
the bird's-nest.  But my picture does represent the true lover as having no existence separable
from that of the beloved object of his affections, and as living at once a doubled life and
a halved life.  And if I do not clearly express what I mean by that, it is either for the reason
that having no conversational powers, I cannot express what I mean, or that having no meaning,
I do not mean what I fail to express.  Which, to the best of my belief, is not the case.'

Edwin had turned red and turned white, as certain points of this picture came into the light.
He now sat looking at the fire, and bit his lip.

'The speculations of an Angular man,' resumed Mr. Grewgious, still sitting and speaking exactly
as before, 'are probably erroneous on so globular a topic.  But I figure to myself (subject,
as before, to Mr. Edwin's correction), that there can be no coolness, no lassitude, no doubt,
no indifference, no half fire and half smoke state of mind, in a real lover.  Pray am I at
all near the mark in my picture?'

As abrupt in his conclusion as in his commencement and progress, he jerked this inquiry at
Edwin, and stopped when one might have supposed him in the middle of his oration.

'I should say, sir,' stammered Edwin, 'as you refer the question to me--'

'Yes,' said Mr. Grewgious, 'I refer it to you, as an authority.'

'I should say, then, sir,' Edwin went on, embarrassed, 'that the picture you have drawn is
generally correct; but I submit that perhaps you may be rather hard upon the unlucky lover.'

'Likely so,' assented Mr. Grewgious, 'likely so.  I am a hard man in the grain.'

'He may not show,' said Edwin, 'all he feels; or he may not--'

There he stopped so long, to find the rest of his sentence, that Mr. Grewgious rendered his
difficulty a thousand times the greater by unexpectedly striking in with:

'No to be sure; he MAY not!'

After that, they all sat silent; the silence of Mr. Bazzard being occasioned by slumber.

'His responsibility is very great, though,' said Mr. Grewgious at length, with his eyes on
the fire.

Edwin nodded assent, with HIS eyes on the fire.

'And let him be sure that he trifles with no one,' said Mr. Grewgious; 'neither with himself,
nor with any other.'

Edwin bit his lip again, and still sat looking at the fire.

'He must not make a plaything of a treasure.  Woe betide him if he does!  Let him take that
well to heart,' said Mr. Grewgious.

Though he said these things in short sentences, much as the supposititious charity boy just
now referred to might have repeated a verse or two from the Book of Proverbs, there was something
dreamy (for so literal a man) in the way in which he now shook his right forefinger at the
live coals in the grate, and again fell silent.

But not for long.  As he sat upright and stiff in his chair, he suddenly rapped his knees,
like the carved image of some queer Joss or other coming out of its reverie, and said:  'We
must finish this bottle, Mr. Edwin.  Let me help you.  I'll help Bazzard too, though he IS
asleep.  He mightn't like it else.'

He helped them both, and helped himself, and drained his glass, and stood it bottom upward
on the table, as though he had just caught a bluebottle in it.

'And now, Mr. Edwin,' he proceeded, wiping his mouth and hands upon his handkerchief:  'to
a little piece of business.  You received from me, the other day, a certified copy of Miss
Rosa's father's will.  You knew its contents before, but you received it from me as a matter
of business.  I should have sent it to Mr. Jasper, but for Miss Rosa's wishing it to come straight
to you, in preference.  You received it?'

'Quite safely, sir.'

'You should have acknowledged its receipt,' said Mr. Grewgious; 'business being business all
the world over.  However, you did not.'

'I meant to have acknowledged it when I first came in this evening, sir.'

'Not a business-like acknowledgment,' returned Mr. Grewgious; 'however, let that pass.  Now,
in that document you have observed a few words of kindly allusion to its being left to me to
discharge a little trust, confided to me in conversation, at such time as I in my discretion
may think best.'

'Yes, sir.'

'Mr. Edwin, it came into my mind just now, when I was looking at the fire, that I could, in
my discretion, acquit myself of that trust at no better time than the present.  Favour me with
your attention, half a minute.'

He took a bunch of keys from his pocket, singled out by the candle- light the key he wanted,
and then, with a candle in his hand, went to a bureau or escritoire, unlocked it, touched the
spring of a little secret drawer, and took from it an ordinary ring-case made for a single
ring.  With this in his hand, he returned to his chair.  As he held it up for the young man
to see, his hand trembled.

'Mr. Edwin, this rose of diamonds and rubies delicately set in gold, was a ring belonging to
Miss Rosa's mother.  It was removed from her dead hand, in my presence, with such distracted
grief as I hope it may never be my lot to contemplate again.  Hard man as I am, I am not hard
enough for that.  See how bright these stones shine!' opening the case.  'And yet the eyes
that were so much brighter, and that so often looked upon them with a light and a proud heart,
have been ashes among ashes, and dust among dust, some years!  If I had any imagination (which
it is needless to say I have not), I might imagine that the lasting beauty of these stones
was almost cruel.'

He closed the case again as he spoke.

'This ring was given to the young lady who was drowned so early in her beautiful and happy
career, by her husband, when they first plighted their faith to one another.  It was he who
removed it from her unconscious hand, and it was he who, when his death drew very near, placed
it in mine.  The trust in which I received it, was, that, you and Miss Rosa growing to manhood
and womanhood, and your betrothal prospering and coming to maturity, I should give it to you
to place upon her finger.  Failing those desired results, it was to remain in my possession.'

Some trouble was in the young man's face, and some indecision was in the action of his hand,
as Mr. Grewgious, looking steadfastly at him, gave him the ring.

'Your placing it on her finger,' said Mr. Grewgious, 'will be the solemn seal upon your strict
fidelity to the living and the dead. You are going to her, to make the last irrevocable preparations
for your marriage.  Take it with you.'

The young man took the little case, and placed it in his breast.

'If anything should be amiss, if anything should be even slightly wrong, between you; if you
should have any secret consciousness that you are committing yourself to this step for no higher
reason than because you have long been accustomed to look forward to it; then,' said Mr. Grewgious,
'I charge you once more, by the living and by the dead, to bring that ring back to me!'

Here Bazzard awoke himself by his own snoring; and, as is usual in such cases, sat apoplectically
staring at vacancy, as defying vacancy to accuse him of having been asleep.

'Bazzard!' said Mr. Grewgious, harder than ever.

'I follow you, sir,' said Bazzard, 'and I have been following you.'

'In discharge of a trust, I have handed Mr. Edwin Drood a ring of diamonds and rubies.  You see?'

Edwin reproduced the little case, and opened it; and Bazzard looked into it.

'I follow you both, sir,' returned Bazzard, 'and I witness the transaction.'

Evidently anxious to get away and be alone, Edwin Drood now resumed his outer clothing, muttering
something about time and appointments.  The fog was reported no clearer (by the flying waiter,
who alighted from a speculative flight in the coffee interest), but he went out into it; and
Bazzard, after his manner, 'followed' him.

Mr. Grewgious, left alone, walked softly and slowly to and fro, for an hour and more.  He was
restless to-night, and seemed dispirited.

'I hope I have done right,' he said.  'The appeal to him seemed necessary.  It was hard to
lose the ring, and yet it must have gone from me very soon.'

He closed the empty little drawer with a sigh, and shut and locked the escritoire, and came
back to the solitary fireside.

'Her ring,' he went on.  'Will it come back to me?  My mind hangs about her ring very uneasily
to-night.  But that is explainable.  I have had it so long, and I have prized it so much! 
I wonder--'

He was in a wondering mood as well as a restless; for, though he checked himself at that point,
and took another walk, he resumed his wondering when he sat down again.

'I wonder (for the ten-thousandth time, and what a weak fool I, for what can it signify now!)
whether he confided the charge of their orphan child to me, because he knew--Good God, how
like her mother she has become!'

'I wonder whether he ever so much as suspected that some one doted on her, at a hopeless, speechless
distance, when he struck in and won her.  I wonder whether it ever crept into his mind who
that unfortunate some one was!'

'I wonder whether I shall sleep to-night!  At all events, I will shut out the world with the
bedclothes, and try.'

Mr. Grewgious crossed the staircase to his raw and foggy bedroom, and was soon ready for bed.
Dimly catching sight of his face in the misty looking-glass, he held his candle to it for a moment.

'A likely some one, YOU, to come into anybody's thoughts in such an aspect!' he exclaimed.
'There! there! there!  Get to bed, poor man, and cease to jabber!'

With that, he extinguished his light, pulled up the bedclothes around him, and with another
sigh shut out the world.  And yet there are such unexplored romantic nooks in the unlikeliest
men, that even old tinderous and touchwoody P. J. T. Possibly Jabbered Thus, at some odd times,
in or about seventeen-forty-seven.

CHAPTER XII--A NIGHT WITH DURDLES

When Mr. Sapsea has nothing better to do, towards evening, and finds the contemplation of his
own profundity becoming a little monotonous in spite of the vastness of the subject, he often
takes an airing in the Cathedral Close and thereabout.  He likes to pass the churchyard with
a swelling air of proprietorship, and to encourage in his breast a sort of benignant-landlord
feeling, in that he has been bountiful towards that meritorious tenant, Mrs. Sapsea, and has
publicly given her a prize.  He likes to see a stray face or two looking in through the railings,
and perhaps reading his inscription.  Should he meet a stranger coming from the churchyard
with a quick step, he is morally convinced that the stranger is 'with a blush retiring,' as
monumentally directed.

Mr. Sapsea's importance has received enhancement, for he has become Mayor of Cloisterham. 
Without mayors, and many of them, it cannot be disputed that the whole framework of society--Mr.
Sapsea is confident that he invented that forcible figure--would fall to pieces.  Mayors have
been knighted for 'going up' with addresses: explosive machines intrepidly discharging shot
and shell into the English Grammar.  Mr. Sapsea may 'go up' with an address.  Rise, Sir Thomas
Sapsea!  Of such is the salt of the earth.

Mr. Sapsea has improved the acquaintance of Mr. Jasper, since their first meeting to partake
of port, epitaph, backgammon, beef, and salad.  Mr. Sapsea has been received at the gatehouse
with kindred hospitality; and on that occasion Mr. Jasper seated himself at the piano, and
sang to him, tickling his ears--figuratively--long enough to present a considerable area for
tickling.  What Mr. Sapsea likes in that young man is, that he is always ready to profit by
the wisdom of his elders, and that he is sound, sir, at the core.

Mr. Sapsea, walking slowly this moist evening near the churchyard with his hands behind him,
on the look-out for a blushing and retiring stranger, turns a corner, and comes instead into
the goodly presence of the Dean, conversing with the Verger and Mr. Jasper.  Mr. Sapsea makes
his obeisance, and is instantly stricken far more ecclesiastical than any Archbishop of York
or Canterbury.

'You are evidently going to write a book about us, Mr. Jasper,' quoth the Dean; 'to write a
book about us.  Well!  We are very ancient, and we ought to make a good book.  We are not so
richly endowed in possessions as in age; but perhaps you will put THAT in your book, among
other things, and call attention to our wrongs.'

Mr. Tope, as in duty bound, is greatly entertained by this.

'I really have no intention at all, sir,' replies Jasper, 'of turning author or archaeologist.
It is but a whim of mine.  And even for my whim, Mr. Sapsea here is more accountable than I am.'

'How so, Mr. Mayor?' says the Dean, with a nod of good-natured recognition of his Fetch.  'How
is that, Mr. Mayor?'

'I am not aware,' Mr. Sapsea remarks, looking about him for information, 'to what the Very
Reverend the Dean does me the honour of referring.'  And then falls to studying his original
in minute points of detail.

'Durdles,' Mr. Tope hints.

'Ay!' the Dean echoes; 'Durdles, Durdles!'

'The truth is, sir,' explains Jasper, 'that my curiosity in the man was first really stimulated
by Mr. Sapsea.  Mr. Sapsea's knowledge of mankind and power of drawing out whatever is recluse
or odd around him, first led to my bestowing a second thought upon the man:  though of course
I had met him constantly about.  You would not be surprised by this, Mr. Dean, if you had seen
Mr. Sapsea deal with him in his own parlour, as I did.'

'O!' cries Sapsea, picking up the ball thrown to him with ineffable complacency and pomposity;
'yes, yes.  The Very Reverend the Dean refers to that?  Yes.  I happened to bring Durdles and
Mr. Jasper together.  I regard Durdles as a Character.'

'A character, Mr. Sapsea, that with a few skilful touches you turn inside out,' says Jasper.

'Nay, not quite that,' returns the lumbering auctioneer.  'I may have a little influence over
him, perhaps; and a little insight into his character, perhaps.  The Very Reverend the Dean
will please to bear in mind that I have seen the world.'  Here Mr. Sapsea gets a little behind
the Dean, to inspect his coat-buttons.

'Well!' says the Dean, looking about him to see what has become of his copyist:  'I hope, Mr.
Mayor, you will use your study and knowledge of Durdles to the good purpose of exhorting him
not to break our worthy and respected Choir-Master's neck; we cannot afford it; his head and
voice are much too valuable to us.'

Mr. Tope is again highly entertained, and, having fallen into respectful convulsions of laughter,
subsides into a deferential murmur, importing that surely any gentleman would deem it a pleasure
and an honour to have his neck broken, in return for such a compliment from such a source.

'I will take it upon myself, sir,' observes Sapsea loftily, 'to answer for Mr. Jasper's neck.
I will tell Durdles to be careful of it.  He will mind what I say.  How is it at present endangered?'
he inquires, looking about him with magnificent patronage.

'Only by my making a moonlight expedition with Durdles among the tombs, vaults, towers, and
ruins,' returns Jasper.  'You remember suggesting, when you brought us together, that, as a
lover of the picturesque, it might be worth my while?'

'I remember!' replies the auctioneer.  And the solemn idiot really believes that he does remember.

'Profiting by your hint,' pursues Jasper, 'I have had some day- rambles with the extraordinary
old fellow, and we are to make a moonlight hole-and-corner exploration to-night.'

'And here he is,' says the Dean.

Durdles with his dinner-bundle in his hand, is indeed beheld slouching towards them.  Slouching
nearer, and perceiving the Dean, he pulls off his hat, and is slouching away with it under
his arm, when Mr. Sapsea stops him.

'Mind you take care of my friend,' is the injunction Mr. Sapsea lays upon him.

'What friend o' yourn is dead?' asks Durdles.  'No orders has come in for any friend o' yourn.'

'I mean my live friend there.'

'O! him?' says Durdles.  'He can take care of himself, can Mister Jarsper.'

'But do you take care of him too,' says Sapsea.

Whom Durdles (there being command in his tone) surlily surveys from head to foot.

'With submission to his Reverence the Dean, if you'll mind what concerns you, Mr. Sapsea, Durdles
he'll mind what concerns him.'

'You're out of temper,' says Mr. Sapsea, winking to the company to observe how smoothly he
will manage him.  'My friend concerns me, and Mr. Jasper is my friend.  And you are my friend.'

'Don't you get into a bad habit of boasting,' retorts Durdles, with a grave cautionary nod.
'It'll grow upon you.'

'You are out of temper,' says Sapsea again; reddening, but again sinking to the company.

'I own to it,' returns Durdles; 'I don't like liberties.'

Mr. Sapsea winks a third wink to the company, as who should say: 'I think you will agree with
me that I have settled HIS business;' and stalks out of the controversy.

Durdles then gives the Dean a good evening, and adding, as he puts his hat on, 'You'll find
me at home, Mister Jarsper, as agreed, when you want me; I'm a-going home to clean myself,'
soon slouches out of sight.  This going home to clean himself is one of the man's incomprehensible
compromises with inexorable facts; he, and his hat, and his boots, and his clothes, never showing
any trace of cleaning, but being uniformly in one condition of dust and grit.

The lamplighter now dotting the quiet Close with specks of light, and running at a great rate
up and down his little ladder with that object--his little ladder under the sacred shadow of
whose inconvenience generations had grown up, and which all Cloisterham would have stood aghast
at the idea of abolishing--the Dean withdraws to his dinner, Mr. Tope to his tea, and Mr. Jasper
to his piano.

Then he closes his piano softly, softly changes his coat for a pea- jacket, with a goodly wicker-cased
bottle in its largest pocket, and putting on a low-crowned, flap-brimmed hat, goes softly out.
Why does he move so softly to-night?  No outward reason is apparent for it.  Can there be any
sympathetic reason crouching darkly within him? But Peter put his hand over his mouth scared. Him was as if they
were now expected in a sanctuary of peace and tranquility and not disturb be, at any price. The
rain and his splashing, twilight around and all that it was indescribably sad. He would have liked
to cry like it when he is not ashamed had before the girl. Therefore, shrugging his lips, and he
looked down on the banisters, he looked as if there in eternity. And he kept nodding quite serious
when short breaks a large drop before the courtyard gate clapped. There is a hole in the gutter,
he thought.

Then Lizzi said she was hungry, and Peter, as if this was a favor, assured piece, he was hungry. So
they went up into the kitchen and asked Barbara to nothing. The moved but her handkerchief from
her face and quickly ruled the children grimly. Heartless They had struggled and now is no time
to eat, they should go to hell and when once one was coming, she'll
take the broom.

Lizzi was now sad. Godforsaken tired and walked them around the house, from room in the hallway,
into the yard. No one cared about her and the heart was suddenly hard to them as lead. Peter
suggested that they wanted to go into memory, and the girl was willed.

It was as if she throws at him now and declare themselves ready to him in all things obey. She
was so anxious to courage.

A gray, crepuscular light there was in memory and a dry, humid air. This gives It tarantulas, newts,
thought Peter, and he was afraid to act loud. All crates were closed, except one, who was in
the back, between two fires. As the children went inside, and Lizzi spread a brown, perforated
top, in a big box located on the ground, and both sat on them, pointed the way into the Angle
between the roof and floor inside. And the rustle and drumming of rain on the roof was to
listen very special, and soon Lizzi said that she was afraid. But Peter was up and tried to
play the brave protector, although he was very anxious to courage and he bitterly regretted his
gone up. He now stood and looked at Dachfensterchen out on the town, on the broad, level land.
And the evening was approaching and there in the West The sky was a deep dark red ribbon hemmed.
No noise came up to here from the throng of houses, and the towers, which peaked, it seemed almost
like stalk without flowers. Now began the back of the gable to the
pigeons coo, and more and more drumming the rain on the slate roof
and dripped down into the gutter.

At that end of Minor Canon Corner the shadow is profound in the existing state of the light:
at that end, too, there is a piece of old dwarf wall, breast high, the only remaining boundary
of what was once a garden, but is now the thoroughfare.  Jasper and Durdles would have turned
this wall in another instant; but, stopping so short, stand behind it.

'Those two are only sauntering,' Jasper whispers; 'they will go out into the moonlight soon.
Let us keep quiet here, or they will detain us, or want to join us, or what not.'

Durdles nods assent, and falls to munching some fragments from his bundle.  Jasper folds his
arms upon the top of the wall, and, with his chin resting on them, watches.  He takes no note
whatever of the Minor Canon, but watches Neville, as though his eye were at the trigger of
a loaded rifle, and he had covered him, and were going to fire.  A sense of destructive power
is so expressed in his face, that even Durdles pauses in his munching, and looks at him, with
an unmunched something in his cheek.

Meanwhile Mr. Crisparkle and Neville walk to and fro, quietly talking together.  What they
say, cannot be heard consecutively; but Mr. Jasper has already distinguished his own name more
than once.

'This is the first day of the week,' Mr. Crisparkle can be distinctly heard to observe, as
they turn back; 'and the last day of the week is Christmas Eve.'

'You may be certain of me, sir.'

The echoes were favourable at those points, but as the two approach, the sound of their talking
becomes confused again.  The word 'confidence,' shattered by the echoes, but still capable
of being pieced together, is uttered by Mr. Crisparkle.  As they draw still nearer, this fragment
of a reply is heard:  'Not deserved yet, but shall be, sir.'  As they turn away again, Jasper
again hears his own name, in connection with the words from Mr. Crisparkle:  'Remember that
I said I answered for you confidently.' Then the sound of their talk becomes confused again;
they halting for a little while, and some earnest action on the part of Neville succeeding.
When they move once more, Mr. Crisparkle is seen to look up at the sky, and to point before
him.  They then slowly disappear; passing out into the moonlight at the opposite end of the Corner.

It is not until they are gone, that Mr. Jasper moves.  But then he turns to Durdles, and bursts
into a fit of laughter.  Durdles, who still has that suspended something in his cheek, and
who sees nothing to laugh at, stares at him until Mr. Jasper lays his face down on his arms
to have his laugh out.  Then Durdles bolts the something, as if desperately resigning himself
to indigestion.  Ask the first hundred citizens of Cloisterham, met at random in the streets
at noon, if they believed in Ghosts, they would tell you no; but put them to choose at night
between these eerie Precincts and the thoroughfare of shops, and you would find that ninety-nine
declared for the longer round and the more frequented way.  The cause of this is not to be
found in any local superstition that attaches to the Precincts--albeit a mysterious lady, with
a child in her arms and a rope dangling from her neck, has been seen flitting about there by
sundry witnesses as intangible as herself--but it is to be sought in the innate shrinking of
dust with the breath of life in it from dust out of which the breath of life has passed; also,
in the widely diffused, and almost as widely unacknowledged, reflection: 'If the dead do, under
any circumstances, become visible to the living, these are such likely surroundings for the
purpose that I, the living, will get out of them as soon as I can.'  Hence, when Mr. Jasper
and Durdles pause to glance around them, before descending into the crypt by a small side door,
of which the latter has a key, the whole expanse of moonlight in their view is utterly deserted.

They enter, locking themselves in, descend the rugged steps, and are down in the Crypt.  The
lantern is not wanted, for the moonlight strikes in at the groined windows, bare of glass,
the broken frames for which cast patterns on the ground.  Up and down these lanes they walk,
Durdles discoursing of the 'old uns' he yet counts on disinterring, and slapping a wall, in
which he considers 'a whole family on 'em' to be stoned and earthed up, just as if he were
a familiar friend of the family.  The taciturnity of Durdles is for the time overcome by Mr.
Jasper's wicker bottle, which circulates freely;--in the sense, that is to say, that its contents
enter freely into Mr. Durdles's circulation, while Mr. Jasper only rinses his mouth once, and
casts forth the rinsing.

They are to ascend the great Tower.  On the steps by which they rise to the Cathedral, Durdles
pauses for new store of breath.  The steps are very dark, but out of the darkness they can
see the lanes of light they have traversed.  Durdles seats himself upon a step. Mr. Jasper
seats himself upon another.  The odour from the wicker bottle (which has somehow passed into
Durdles's keeping) soon intimates that the cork has been taken out; but this is not ascertainable
through the sense of sight, since neither can descry the other.  And yet, in talking, they
turn to one another, as though their faces could commune together.

'This is good stuff, Mister Jarsper!'

'It is very good stuff, I hope.--I bought it on purpose.'

'They don't show, you see, the old uns don't, Mister Jarsper!'

'It would be a more confused world than it is, if they could.'

'Well, it WOULD lead towards a mixing of things,' Durdles acquiesces:  pausing on the remark,
as if the idea of ghosts had not previously presented itself to him in a merely inconvenient
light, domestically or chronologically.  'But do you think there may be Ghosts of other things,
though not of men and women?'

'What things?  Flower-beds and watering-pots? horses and harness?'

'No.  Sounds.'

'What sounds?'

'Cries.'

'What cries do you mean?  Chairs to mend?'

'No.  I mean screeches.  Now I'll tell you, Mr. Jarsper.  Wait a bit till I put the bottle
right.'  Here the cork is evidently taken out again, and replaced again.  'There!  NOW it's
right!  This time last year, only a few days later, I happened to have been doing what was
correct by the season, in the way of giving it the welcome it had a right to expect, when them
town-boys set on me at their worst.  At length I gave 'em the slip, and turned in here.  And
here I fell asleep.  And what woke me?  The ghost of a cry.  The ghost of one terrific shriek,
which shriek was followed by the ghost of the howl of a dog:  a long, dismal, woeful howl,
such as a dog gives when a person's dead.  That was MY last Christmas Eve.'

'What do you mean?' is the very abrupt, and, one might say, fierce retort.

'I mean that I made inquiries everywhere about, and, that no living ears but mine heard either
that cry or that howl.  So I say they was both ghosts; though why they came to me, I've never
made out.'

'I thought you were another kind of man,' says Jasper, scornfully.

'So I thought myself,' answers Durdles with his usual composure; 'and yet I was picked out for it.'

Jasper had risen suddenly, when he asked him what he meant, and he now says, 'Come; we shall
freeze here; lead the way.'

Durdles complies, not over-steadily; opens the door at the top of the steps with the key he
has already used; and so emerges on the Cathedral level, in a passage at the side of the chancel.
Here, the moonlight is so very bright again that the colours of the nearest stained-glass window
are thrown upon their faces.  The appearance of the unconscious Durdles, holding the door open
for his companion to follow, as if from the grave, is ghastly enough, with a purple hand across
his face, and a yellow splash upon his brow; but he bears the close scrutiny of his companion
in an insensible way, although it is prolonged while the latter fumbles among his pockets for
a key confided to him that will open an iron gate, so to enable them to pass to the staircase
of the great tower.

'That and the bottle are enough for you to carry,' he says, giving it to Durdles; 'hand your
bundle to me; I am younger and longer- winded than you.'  Durdles hesitates for a moment between
bundle and bottle; but gives the preference to the bottle as being by far the better company,
and consigns the dry weight to his fellow- explorer. Durdles has lighted his lantern, by drawing
from the cold, hard wall a spark of that mysterious fire which lurks in everything, and, guided
by this speck, they clamber up among the cobwebs and the dust.  Their way lies through strange
places.  Twice or thrice they emerge into level, low-arched galleries, whence they can look
down into the moon-lit nave; and where Durdles, waving his lantern, waves the dim angels' heads
upon the corbels of the roof, seeming to watch their progress.  Anon they turn into narrower
and steeper staircases, and the night-air begins to blow upon them, and the chirp of some startled
jackdaw or frightened rook precedes the heavy beating of wings in a confined space, and the
beating down of dust and straws upon their heads.

Once again, an unaccountable expedition this!  Jasper (always moving softly with no visible
reason) contemplates the scene, and especially that stillest part of it which the Cathedral
overshadows.  But he contemplates Durdles quite as curiously, and Durdles is by times conscious
of his watchful eyes.

Only by times, because Durdles is growing drowsy.  As aeronauts lighten the load they carry,
when they wish to rise, similarly Durdles has lightened the wicker bottle in coming up.  Snatches
of sleep surprise him on his legs, and stop him in his talk.  A mild fit of calenture seizes
him, in which he deems that the ground so far below, is on a level with the tower, and would
as lief walk off the tower into the air as not.  Such is his state when they begin to come
down.  And as aeronauts make themselves heavier when they wish to descend, similarly Durdles
charges himself with more liquid from the wicker bottle, that he may come down the better.

The iron gate attained and locked--but not before Durdles has tumbled twice, and cut an eyebrow
open once--they descend into the crypt again, with the intent of issuing forth as they entered.
But, while returning among those lanes of light, Durdles becomes so very uncertain, both of
foot and speech, that he half drops, half throws himself down, by one of the heavy pillars,
scarcely less heavy than itself, and indistinctly appeals to his companion for forty winks
of a second each.

'If you will have it so, or must have it so,' replies Jasper, 'I'll not leave you here.  Take
them, while I walk to and fro.'

Durdles is asleep at once; and in his sleep he dreams a dream.

It is not much of a dream, considering the vast extent of the domains of dreamland, and their
wonderful productions; it is only remarkable for being unusually restless and unusually real.
He dreams of lying there, asleep, and yet counting his companion's footsteps as he walks to
and fro.  He dreams that the footsteps die away into distance of time and of space, and that
something touches him, and that something falls from his hand.  Then something clinks and gropes
about, and he dreams that he is alone for so long a time, that the lanes of light take new
directions as the moon advances in her course.  From succeeding unconsciousness he passes into
a dream of slow uneasiness from cold; and painfully awakes to a perception of the lanes of
light--really changed, much as he had dreamed--and Jasper walking among them, beating his hands
and feet.

'Holloa!' Durdles cries out, unmeaningly alarmed.

'Awake at last?' says Jasper, coming up to him.  'Do you know that your forties have stretched
into thousands?'

'No.'

'They have though.'

'What's the time?'

'Hark!  The bells are going in the Tower!'

They strike four quarters, and then the great bell strikes.

'Two!' cries Durdles, scrambling up; 'why didn't you try to wake me, Mister Jarsper?'

'I did.  I might as well have tried to wake the dead--your own family of dead, up in the corner
there.'

'Did you touch me?'

'Touch you!  Yes.  Shook you.'

As Durdles recalls that touching something in his dream, he looks down on the pavement, and
sees the key of the crypt door lying close to where he himself lay.

'I dropped you, did I?' he says, picking it up, and recalling that part of his dream.  As he
gathers himself up again into an upright position, or into a position as nearly upright as
he ever maintains, he is again conscious of being watched by his companion.

'Well?' says Jasper, smiling, 'are you quite ready?  Pray don't hurry.'

'Let me get my bundle right, Mister Jarsper, and I'm with you.'  As he ties it afresh, he is
once more conscious that he is very narrowly observed.

'What do you suspect me of, Mister Jarsper?' he asks, with drunken displeasure.  'Let them
as has any suspicions of Durdles name 'em.'

'I've no suspicions of you, my good Mr. Durdles; but I have suspicions that my bottle was filled
with something stiffer than either of us supposed.  And I also have suspicions,' Jasper adds,
taking it from the pavement and turning it bottom upwards, 'that it's empty.'

Durdles condescends to laugh at this.  Continuing to chuckle when his laugh is over, as though
remonstrant with himself on his drinking powers, he rolls to the door and unlocks it.  They
both pass out, and Durdles relocks it, and pockets his key.

'A thousand thanks for a curious and interesting night,' says Jasper, giving him his hand;
'you can make your own way home?'

'I should think so!' answers Durdles.  'If you was to offer Durdles the affront to show him
his way home, he wouldn't go home.

Durdles wouldn't go home till morning; And THEN Durdles wouldn't go home,

Durdles wouldn't.'  This with the utmost defiance.

'What!  Is that baby-devil on the watch there!' cries Jasper in a fury:  so quickly roused,
and so violent, that he seems an older devil himself.  'I shall shed the blood of that impish
wretch!  I know I shall do it!'  Regardless of the fire, though it hits him more than once,
he rushes at Deputy, collars him, and tries to bring him across.  But Deputy is not to be so
easily brought across.  With a diabolical insight into the strongest part of his position,
he is no sooner taken by the throat than he curls up his legs, forces his assailant to hang
him, as it were, and gurgles in his throat, and screws his body, and twists, as already undergoing
the first agonies of strangulation.  There is nothing for it but to drop him.  He instantly
gets himself together, backs over to Durdles, and cries to his assailant, gnashing the great
gap in front of his mouth with rage and malice:

'I'll blind yer, s'elp me!  I'll stone yer eyes out, s'elp me!  If I don't have yer eyesight,
bellows me!'  At the same time dodging behind Durdles, and snarling at Jasper, now from this
side of him, and now from that:  prepared, if pounced upon, to dart away in all manner of curvilinear
directions, and, if run down after all, to grovel in the dust, and cry:  'Now, hit me when
I'm down!  Do it!'

'Don't hurt the boy, Mister Jarsper,' urges Durdles, shielding him. 'Recollect yourself.'

'He followed us to-night, when we first came here!'

'Yer lie, I didn't!' replies Deputy, in his one form of polite contradiction.

'He has been prowling near us ever since!'

'Yer lie, I haven't,' returns Deputy.  'I'd only jist come out for my 'elth when I see you
two a-coming out of the Kin-freederel.  If

I--ket--ches--Im--out--ar--ter--ten!'

(with the usual rhythm and dance, though dodging behind Durdles), 'it ain't ANY fault, is it?'

'Take him home, then,' retorts Jasper, ferociously, though with a strong check upon himself,
'and let my eyes be rid of the sight of you!'

Deputy, with another sharp whistle, at once expressing his relief, and his commencement of
a milder stoning of Mr. Durdles, begins stoning that respectable gentleman home, as if he were
a reluctant ox.  Mr. Jasper goes to his gatehouse, brooding.  And thus, as everything comes
to an end, the unaccountable expedition comes to an end--for the time.

CHAPTER XIII--BOTH AT THEIR BEST

Miss Twinkleton's establishment was about to undergo a serene hush. The Christmas recess was
at hand.  What had once, and at no remote period, been called, even by the erudite Miss Twinkleton
herself, 'the half;' but what was now called, as being more elegant, and more strictly collegiate,
'the term,' would expire to-morrow.  A noticeable relaxation of discipline had for some few
days pervaded the Nuns' House.  Club suppers had occurred in the bedrooms, and a dressed tongue
had been carved with a pair of scissors, and handed round with the curling tongs.  Portions
of marmalade had likewise been distributed on a service of plates constructed of curlpaper;
and cowslip wine had been quaffed from the small squat measuring glass in which little Rickitts
(a junior of weakly constitution) took her steel drops daily.  The housemaids had been bribed
with various fragments of riband, and sundry pairs of shoes more or less down at heel, to make
no mention of crumbs in the beds; the airiest costumes had been worn on these festive occasions;
and the daring Miss Ferdinand had even surprised the company with a sprightly solo on the comb-and-curlpaper,
until suffocated in her own pillow by two flowing-haired executioners.

Nor were these the only tokens of dispersal.  Boxes appeared in the bedrooms (where they were
capital at other times), and a surprising amount of packing took place, out of all proportion
to the amount packed.  Largess, in the form of odds and ends of cold cream and pomatum, and
also of hairpins, was freely distributed among the attendants.  On charges of inviolable secrecy,
confidences were interchanged respecting golden youth of England expected to call, 'at home,'
on the first opportunity.  Miss Giggles (deficient in sentiment) did indeed profess that she,
for her part, acknowledged such homage by making faces at the golden youth; but this young
lady was outvoted by an immense majority.

On the last night before a recess, it was always expressly made a point of honour that nobody
should go to sleep, and that Ghosts should be encouraged by all possible means.  This compact
invariably broke down, and all the young ladies went to sleep very soon, and got up very early.

The concluding ceremony came off at twelve o'clock on the day of departure; when Miss Twinkleton,
supported by Mrs. Tisher, held a drawing-room in her own apartment (the globes already covered
with brown Holland), where glasses of white-wine and plates of cut pound-cake were discovered
on the table.  Miss Twinkleton then said:  Ladies, another revolving year had brought us round
to that festive period at which the first feelings of our nature bounded in our--Miss Twinkleton
was annually going to add 'bosoms,' but annually stopped on the brink of that expression, and
substituted 'hearts.'  Hearts; our hearts.  Hem!  Again a revolving year, ladies, had brought
us to a pause in our studies--let us hope our greatly advanced studies--and, like the mariner
in his bark, the warrior in his tent, the captive in his dungeon, and the traveller in his
various conveyances, we yearned for home.  Did we say, on such an occasion, in the opening
words of Mr. Addison's impressive tragedy:

'The dawn is overcast, the morning lowers, And heavily in clouds brings on the day, The great,
th' important day--?'

Not so.  From horizon to zenith all was couleur de rose, for all was redolent of our relations
and friends.  Might WE find THEM prospering as WE expected; might THEY find US prospering as
THEY expected!  Ladies, we would now, with our love to one another, wish one another good-bye,
and happiness, until we met again.  And when the time should come for our resumption of those
pursuits which (here a general depression set in all round), pursuits which, pursuits which;--then
let us ever remember what was said by the Spartan General, in words too trite for repetition,
at the battle it were superfluous to specify.

The handmaidens of the establishment, in their best caps, then handed the trays, and the young
ladies sipped and crumbled, and the bespoken coaches began to choke the street.  Then leave-taking
was not long about; and Miss Twinkleton, in saluting each young lady's cheek, confided to her
an exceedingly neat letter, addressed to her next friend at law, 'with Miss Twinkleton's best
compliments' in the corner.  This missive she handed with an air as if it had not the least
connexion with the bill, but were something in the nature of a delicate and joyful surprise.

So many times had Rosa seen such dispersals, and so very little did she know of any other Home,
that she was contented to remain where she was, and was even better contented than ever before,
having her latest friend with her.  And yet her latest friendship had a blank place in it of
which she could not fail to be sensible.  Helena Landless, having been a party to her brother's
revelation about Rosa, and having entered into that compact of silence with Mr. Crisparkle,
shrank from any allusion to Edwin Drood's name.  Why she so avoided it, was mysterious to Rosa,
but she perfectly perceived the fact.  But for the fact, she might have relieved her own little
perplexed heart of some of its doubts and hesitations, by taking Helena into her confidence.
As it was, she had no such vent:  she could only ponder on her own difficulties, and wonder
more and more why this avoidance of Edwin's name should last, now that she knew--for so much
Helena had told her--that a good understanding was to be reestablished between the two young
men, when Edwin came down.

It would have made a pretty picture, so many pretty girls kissing Rosa in the cold porch of
the Nuns' House, and that sunny little creature peeping out of it (unconscious of sly faces
carved on spout and gable peeping at her), and waving farewells to the departing coaches, as
if she represented the spirit of rosy youth abiding in the place to keep it bright and warm
in its desertion. The hoarse High Street became musical with the cry, in various silvery voices,
'Good-bye, Rosebud darling!' and the effigy of Mr. Sapsea's father over the opposite doorway
seemed to say to mankind: 'Gentlemen, favour me with your attention to this charming little
last lot left behind, and bid with a spirit worthy of the occasion!'  Then the staid street,
so unwontedly sparkling, youthful, and fresh for a few rippling moments, ran dry, and Cloisterham
was itself again.

If Rosebud in her bower now waited Edwin Drood's coming with an uneasy heart, Edwin for his
part was uneasy too.  With far less force of purpose in his composition than the childish beauty,
crowned by acclamation fairy queen of Miss Twinkleton's establishment, he had a conscience,
and Mr. Grewgious had pricked it.  That gentleman's steady convictions of what was right and
what was wrong in such a case as his, were neither to be frowned aside nor laughed aside. 
They would not be moved.  But for the dinner in Staple Inn, and but for the ring he carried
in the breast pocket of his coat, he would have drifted into their wedding-day without another
pause for real thought, loosely trusting that all would go well, left alone.  But that serious
putting him on his truth to the living and the dead had brought him to a check.  He must either
give the ring to Rosa, or he must take it back.  Once put into this narrowed way of action,
it was curious that he began to consider Rosa's claims upon him more unselfishly than he had
ever considered them before, and began to be less sure of himself than he had ever been in
all his easy-going days.

'I will be guided by what she says, and by how we get on,' was his decision, walking from the
gatehouse to the Nuns' House.  'Whatever comes of it, I will bear his words in mind, and try
to be true to the living and the dead.'

Rosa was dressed for walking.  She expected him.  It was a bright, frosty day, and Miss Twinkleton
had already graciously sanctioned fresh air.  Thus they got out together before it became necessary
for either Miss Twinkleton, or the deputy high-priest Mrs. Tisher, to lay even so much as one
of those usual offerings on the shrine of Propriety.

'My dear Eddy,' said Rosa, when they had turned out of the High Street, and had got among the
quiet walks in the neighbourhood of the Cathedral and the river:  'I want to say something
very serious to you.  I have been thinking about it for a long, long time.'

'I want to be serious with you too, Rosa dear.  I mean to be serious and earnest.'

'Thank you, Eddy.  And you will not think me unkind because I begin, will you?  You will not
think I speak for myself only, because I speak first?  That would not be generous, would it?
And I know you are generous!'

He said, 'I hope I am not ungenerous to you, Rosa.'  He called her Pussy no more.  Never again.

'And there is no fear,' pursued Rosa, 'of our quarrelling, is there?  Because, Eddy,' clasping
her hand on his arm, 'we have so much reason to be very lenient to each other!'

'We will be, Rosa.'

'That's a dear good boy!  Eddy, let us be courageous.  Let us change to brother and sister
from this day forth.'

'Never be husband and wife?'

'Never!'

Neither spoke again for a little while.  But after that pause he said, with some effort:

'Of course I know that this has been in both our minds, Rosa, and of course I am in honour
bound to confess freely that it does not originate with you.'

'No, nor with you, dear,' she returned, with pathetic earnestness. 'That sprung up between
us.  You are not truly happy in our engagement; I am not truly happy in it.  O, I am so sorry,
so sorry!'  And there she broke into tears.

'I am deeply sorry too, Rosa.  Deeply sorry for you.'

'And I for you, poor boy!  And I for you!'

This pure young feeling, this gentle and forbearing feeling of each towards the other, brought
with it its reward in a softening light that seemed to shine on their position.  The relations
between them did not look wilful, or capricious, or a failure, in such a light; they became
elevated into something more self-denying, honourable, affectionate, and true.

'If we knew yesterday,' said Rosa, as she dried her eyes, 'and we did know yesterday, and on
many, many yesterdays, that we were far from right together in those relations which were not
of our own choosing, what better could we do to-day than change them?  It is natural that we
should be sorry, and you see how sorry we both are; but how much better to be sorry now than then!'

'When, Rosa?'

'When it would be too late.  And then we should be angry, besides.'

Another silence fell upon them.

'And you know,' said Rosa innocently, 'you couldn't like me then; and you can always like me
now, for I shall not be a drag upon you, or a worry to you.  And I can always like you now,
and your sister will not tease or trifle with you.  I often did when I was not your sister,
and I beg your pardon for it.'

'Don't let us come to that, Rosa; or I shall want more pardoning than I like to think of.'

'No, indeed, Eddy; you are too hard, my generous boy, upon yourself.  Let us sit down, brother,
on these ruins, and let me tell you how it was with us.  I think I know, for I have considered
about it very much since you were here last time.  You liked me, didn't you?  You thought I
was a nice little thing?'

'Everybody thinks that, Rosa.'

'Do they?'  She knitted her brow musingly for a moment, and then flashed out with the bright
little induction:  'Well, but say they do.  Surely it was not enough that you should think
of me only as other people did; now, was it?'

The point was not to be got over.  It was not enough.

'And that is just what I mean; that is just how it was with us,' said Rosa.  'You liked me
very well, and you had grown used to me, and had grown used to the idea of our being married.
You accepted the situation as an inevitable kind of thing, didn't you?  It was to be, you thought,
and why discuss or dispute it?'

It was new and strange to him to have himself presented to himself so clearly, in a glass of
her holding up.  He had always patronised her, in his superiority to her share of woman's wit.
Was that but another instance of something radically amiss in the terms on which they had been
gliding towards a life-long bondage?

'All this that I say of you is true of me as well, Eddy.  Unless it was, I might not be bold
enough to say it.  Only, the difference between us was, that by little and little there crept
into my mind a habit of thinking about it, instead of dismissing it.  My life is not so busy
as yours, you see, and I have not so many things to think of.  So I thought about it very much,
and I cried about it very much too (though that was not your fault, poor boy); when all at
once my guardian came down, to prepare for my leaving the Nuns' House.  I tried to hint to
him that I was not quite settled in my mind, but I hesitated and failed, and he didn't understand
me. But he is a good, good man.  And he put before me so kindly, and yet so strongly, how seriously
we ought to consider, in our circumstances, that I resolved to speak to you the next moment
we were alone and grave.  And if I seemed to come to it easily just now, because I came to
it all at once, don't think it was so really, Eddy, for O, it was very, very hard, and O, I
am very, very sorry!'

Her full heart broke into tears again.  He put his arm about her waist, and they walked by
the river-side together.

'Your guardian has spoken to me too, Rosa dear.  I saw him before I left London.'  His right
hand was in his breast, seeking the ring; but he checked it, as he thought:  'If I am to take
it back, why should I tell her of it?'

'And that made you more serious about it, didn't it, Eddy?  And if I had not spoken to you,
as I have, you would have spoken to me?  I hope you can tell me so?  I don't like it to be
ALL my doing, though it IS so much better for us.'

'Yes, I should have spoken; I should have put everything before you; I came intending to do
it.  But I never could have spoken to you as you have spoken to me, Rosa.'

'Don't say you mean so coldly or unkindly, Eddy, please, if you can help it.'

'I mean so sensibly and delicately, so wisely and affectionately.'

'That's my dear brother!'  She kissed his hand in a little rapture. 'The dear girls will be
dreadfully disappointed,' added Rosa, laughing, with the dewdrops glistening in her bright
eyes.  'They have looked forward to it so, poor pets!'

'Ah! but I fear it will be a worse disappointment to Jack,' said Edwin Drood, with a start.
'I never thought of Jack!'

Her swift and intent look at him as he said the words could no more be recalled than a flash
of lightning can.  But it appeared as though she would have instantly recalled it, if she could;
for she looked down, confused, and breathed quickly.

'You don't doubt its being a blow to Jack, Rosa?'

She merely replied, and that evasively and hurriedly:  Why should she?  She had not thought
about it.  He seemed, to her, to have so little to do with it.

'My dear child! can you suppose that any one so wrapped up in another--Mrs. Tope's expression:
not mine--as Jack is in me, could fail to be struck all of a heap by such a sudden and complete
change in my life?  I say sudden, because it will be sudden to HIM, you know.'

She nodded twice or thrice, and her lips parted as if she would have assented.  But she uttered
no sound, and her breathing was no slower.

'How shall I tell Jack?' said Edwin, ruminating.  If he had been less occupied with the thought,
he must have seen her singular emotion.  'I never thought of Jack.  It must be broken to him,
before the town-crier knows it.  I dine with the dear fellow to- morrow and next day--Christmas
Eve and Christmas Day--but it would never do to spoil his feast-days.  He always worries about
me, and moddley-coddleys in the merest trifles.  The news is sure to overset him.  How on earth
shall this be broken to Jack?'

'He must be told, I suppose?' said Rosa.

'My dear Rosa! who ought to be in our confidence, if not Jack?'

'My guardian promised to come down, if I should write and ask him. I am going to do so.  Would
you like to leave it to him?'

'A bright idea!' cried Edwin.  'The other trustee.  Nothing more natural.  He comes down, he
goes to Jack, he relates what we have agreed upon, and he states our case better than we could.
He has already spoken feelingly to you, he has already spoken feelingly to me, and he'll put
the whole thing feelingly to Jack.  That's it!  I am not a coward, Rosa, but to tell you a
secret, I am a little afraid of Jack.'

'No, no! you are not afraid of him!' cried Rosa, turning white, and clasping her hands.

'Why, sister Rosa, sister Rosa, what do you see from the turret?' said Edwin, rallying her.
'My dear girl!'

'You frightened me.'

'Most unintentionally, but I am as sorry as if I had meant to do it.  Could you possibly suppose
for a moment, from any loose way of speaking of mine, that I was literally afraid of the dear
fond fellow?  What I mean is, that he is subject to a kind of paroxysm, or fit--I saw him in
it once--and I don't know but that so great a surprise, coming upon him direct from me whom
he is so wrapped up in, might bring it on perhaps.  Which--and this is the secret I was going
to tell you--is another reason for your guardian's making the communication.  He is so steady,
precise, and exact, that he will talk Jack's thoughts into shape, in no time:  whereas with
me Jack is always impulsive and hurried, and, I may say, almost womanish.'

Rosa seemed convinced.  Perhaps from her own very different point of view of 'Jack,' she felt
comforted and protected by the interposition of Mr. Grewgious between herself and him.

And now, Edwin Drood's right hand closed again upon the ring in its little case, and again
was checked by the consideration:  'It is certain, now, that I am to give it back to him; then
why should I tell her of it?'  That pretty sympathetic nature which could be so sorry for him
in the blight of their childish hopes of happiness together, and could so quietly find itself
alone in a new world to weave fresh wreaths of such flowers as it might prove to bear, the
old world's flowers being withered, would be grieved by those sorrowful jewels; and to what
purpose?  Why should it be?  They were but a sign of broken joys and baseless projects; in
their very beauty they were (as the unlikeliest of men had said) almost a cruel satire on the
loves, hopes, plans, of humanity, which are able to forecast nothing, and are so much brittle
dust.  Let them be.  He would restore them to her guardian when he came down; he in his turn
would restore them to the cabinet from which he had unwillingly taken them; and there, like
old letters or old vows, or other records of old aspirations come to nothing, they would be
disregarded, until, being valuable, they were sold into circulation again, to repeat their
former round.

Let them be.  Let them lie unspoken of, in his breast.  However distinctly or indistinctly
he entertained these thoughts, he arrived at the conclusion, Let them be.  Among the mighty
store of wonderful chains that are for ever forging, day and night, in the vast iron-works
of time and circumstance, there was one chain forged in the moment of that small conclusion,
riveted to the foundations of heaven and earth, and gifted with invincible force to hold and
drag.  And yet there was one reservation on each side; on hers, that she intended through her
guardian to withdraw herself immediately from the tuition of her music-master; on his, that
he did already entertain some wandering speculations whether it might ever come to pass that
he would know more of Miss Landless.

The bright, frosty day declined as they walked and spoke together. The sun dipped in the river
far behind them, and the old city lay red before them, as their walk drew to a close.  The
moaning water cast its seaweed duskily at their feet, when they turned to leave its margin;
and the rooks hovered above them with hoarse cries, darker splashes in the darkening air.

'I will prepare Jack for my flitting soon,' said Edwin, in a low voice, 'and I will but see
your guardian when he comes, and then go before they speak together.  It will be better done
without my being by.  Don't you think so?'

'Yes.'

'We know we have done right, Rosa?'

'Yes.'

'We know we are better so, even now?'

'And shall be far, far better so by-and-by.'

Still there was that lingering tenderness in their hearts towards the old positions they were
relinquishing, that they prolonged their parting.  When they came among the elm-trees by the
Cathedral, where they had last sat together, they stopped as by consent, and Rosa raised her
face to his, as she had never raised it in the old days;--for they were old already.

'God bless you, dear!  Good-bye!'

'God bless you, dear!  Good-bye!'

They kissed each other fervently.

'Now, please take me home, Eddy, and let me be by myself.'

'Don't look round, Rosa,' he cautioned her, as he drew her arm through his, and led her away.
'Didn't you see Jack?'

'No!  Where?'

'Under the trees.  He saw us, as we took leave of each other.  Poor fellow! he little thinks
we have parted.  This will be a blow to him, I am much afraid!'

She hurried on, without resting, and hurried on until they had passed under the gatehouse into
the street; once there, she asked:

'Has he followed us?  You can look without seeming to.  Is he behind?'

'No. Yes, he is!  He has just passed out under the gateway.  The dear, sympathetic old fellow
likes to keep us in sight.  I am afraid he will be bitterly disappointed!'

She pulled hurriedly at the handle of the hoarse old bell, and the gate soon opened.  Before
going in, she gave him one last, wide, wondering look, as if she would have asked him with
imploring emphasis:  'O! don't you understand?'  And out of that look he vanished from her view.

CHAPTER XIV--WHEN SHALL THESE THREE MEET AGAIN?

Christmas Eve in Cloisterham.  A few strange faces in the streets; a few other faces, half
strange and half familiar, once the faces of Cloisterham children, now the faces of men and
women who come back from the outer world at long intervals to find the city wonderfully shrunken
in size, as if it had not washed by any means well in the meanwhile.  To these, the striking
of the Cathedral clock, and the cawing of the rooks from the Cathedral tower, are like voices
of their nursery time.  To such as these, it has happened in their dying hours afar off, that
they have imagined their chamber-floor to be strewn with the autumnal leaves fallen from the
elm-trees in the Close:  so have the rustling sounds and fresh scents of their earliest impressions
revived when the circle of their lives was very nearly traced, and the beginning and the end
were drawing close together.

Seasonable tokens are about.  Red berries shine here and there in the lattices of Minor Canon
Corner; Mr. and Mrs. Tope are daintily sticking sprigs of holly into the carvings and sconces
of the Cathedral stalls, as if they were sticking them into the coat- button-holes of the Dean
and Chapter.  Lavish profusion is in the shops:  particularly in the articles of currants,
raisins, spices, candied peel, and moist sugar.  An unusual air of gallantry and dissipation
is abroad; evinced in an immense bunch of mistletoe hanging in the greengrocer's shop doorway,
and a poor little Twelfth Cake, culminating in the figure of a Harlequin--such a very poor
little Twelfth Cake, that one would rather called it a Twenty- fourth Cake or a Forty-eighth
Cake--to be raffled for at the pastrycook's, terms one shilling per member.  Public amusements
are not wanting.  The Wax-Work which made so deep an impression on the reflective mind of the
Emperor of China is to be seen by particular desire during Christmas Week only, on the premises
of the bankrupt livery-stable-keeper up the lane; and a new grand comic Christmas pantomime
is to be produced at the Theatre:  the latter heralded by the portrait of Signor Jacksonini
the clown, saying 'How do you do to-morrow?' quite as large as life, and almost as miserably.
In short, Cloisterham is up and doing:  though from this description the High School and Miss
Twinkleton's are to be excluded.  From the former establishment the scholars have gone home,
every one of them in love with one of Miss Twinkleton's young ladies (who knows nothing about
it); and only the handmaidens flutter occasionally in the windows of the latter.  It is noticed,
by the bye, that these damsels become, within the limits of decorum, more skittish when thus
intrusted with the concrete representation of their sex, than when dividing the representation
with Miss Twinkleton's young ladies.

Three are to meet at the gatehouse to-night.  How does each one of the three get through the day?

Neville Landless, though absolved from his books for the time by Mr. Crisparkle--whose fresh
nature is by no means insensible to the charms of a holiday--reads and writes in his quiet
room, with a concentrated air, until it is two hours past noon.  He then sets himself to clearing
his table, to arranging his books, and to tearing up and burning his stray papers.  He makes
a clean sweep of all untidy accumulations, puts all his drawers in order, and leaves no note
or scrap of paper undestroyed, save such memoranda as bear directly on his studies.  This done,
he turns to his wardrobe, selects a few articles of ordinary wear--among them, change of stout
shoes and socks for walking--and packs these in a knapsack. This knapsack is new, and he bought
it in the High Street yesterday.  He also purchased, at the same time and at the same place,
a heavy walking-stick; strong in the handle for the grip of the hand, and iron-shod.  He tries
this, swings it, poises it, and lays it by, with the knapsack, on a window-seat.  By this time
his arrangements are complete.

He dresses for going out, and is in the act of going--indeed has left his room, and has met
the Minor Canon on the staircase, coming out of his bedroom upon the same story--when he turns
back again for his walking-stick, thinking he will carry it now.  Mr. Crisparkle, who has paused
on the staircase, sees it in his hand on his immediately reappearing, takes it from him, and
asks him with a smile how he chooses a stick?

'Really I don't know that I understand the subject,' he answers. 'I chose it for its weight.'

'Much too heavy, Neville; MUCH too heavy.'

'To rest upon in a long walk, sir?'

'Rest upon?' repeats Mr. Crisparkle, throwing himself into pedestrian form.  'You don't rest
upon it; you merely balance with it.'

'I shall know better, with practice, sir.  I have not lived in a walking country, you know.'

'True,' says Mr. Crisparkle.  'Get into a little training, and we will have a few score miles
together.  I should leave you nowhere now.  Do you come back before dinner?'

'I think not, as we dine early.'

Mr. Crisparkle gives him a bright nod and a cheerful good-bye; expressing (not without intention)
absolute confidence and ease

Neville repairs to the Nuns' House, and requests that Miss Landless may be informed that her
brother is there, by appointment.  He waits at the gate, not even crossing the threshold; for
he is on his parole not to put himself in Rosa's way.

His sister is at least as mindful of the obligation they have taken on themselves as he can
be, and loses not a moment in joining him. They meet affectionately, avoid lingering there,
and walk towards the upper inland country.

'I am not going to tread upon forbidden ground, Helena,' says Neville, when they have walked
some distance and are turning; 'you will understand in another moment that I cannot help referring
to-- what shall I say?--my infatuation.'

'Had you not better avoid it, Neville?  You know that I can hear nothing.'

'You can hear, my dear, what Mr. Crisparkle has heard, and heard with approval.'

'Yes; I can hear so much.'

'Well, it is this.  I am not only unsettled and unhappy myself, but I am conscious of unsettling
and interfering with other people. How do I know that, but for my unfortunate presence, you,
and--and- -the rest of that former party, our engaging guardian excepted, might be dining cheerfully
in Minor Canon Corner to-morrow?  Indeed it probably would be so.  I can see too well that
I am not high in the old lady's opinion, and it is easy to understand what an irksome clog
I must be upon the hospitalities of her orderly house- -especially at this time of year--when
I must be kept asunder from this person, and there is such a reason for my not being brought
into contact with that person, and an unfavourable reputation has preceded me with such another
person; and so on.  I have put this very gently to Mr. Crisparkle, for you know his self-denying
ways; but still I have put it.  What I have laid much greater stress upon at the same time
is, that I am engaged in a miserable struggle with myself, and that a little change and absence
may enable me to come through it the better.  So, the weather being bright and hard, I am going
on a walking expedition, and intend taking myself out of everybody's way (my own included,
I hope) to-morrow morning.'

'When to come back?'

'In a fortnight.'

'And going quite alone?'

'I am much better without company, even if there were any one but you to bear me company, my
dear Helena.'

'Mr. Crisparkle entirely agrees, you say?'

'Entirely.  I am not sure but that at first he was inclined to think it rather a moody scheme,
and one that might do a brooding mind harm.  But we took a moonlight walk last Monday night,
to talk it over at leisure, and I represented the case to him as it really is.  I showed him
that I do want to conquer myself, and that, this evening well got over, it is surely better
that I should be away from here just now, than here.  I could hardly help meeting certain people
walking together here, and that could do no good, and is certainly not the way to forget. 
A fortnight hence, that chance will probably be over, for the time; and when it again arises
for the last time, why, I can again go away.  Farther, I really do feel hopeful of bracing
exercise and wholesome fatigue.  You know that Mr. Crisparkle allows such things their full
weight in the preservation of his own sound mind in his own sound body, and that his just spirit
is not likely to maintain one set of natural laws for himself and another for me.  He yielded
to my view of the matter, when convinced that I was honestly in earnest; and so, with his full
consent, I start to-morrow morning.  Early enough to be not only out of the streets, but out
of hearing of the bells, when the good people go to church.'

Helena thinks it over, and thinks well of it.  Mr. Crisparkle doing so, she would do so; but
she does originally, out of her own mind, think well of it, as a healthy project, denoting
a sincere endeavour and an active attempt at self-correction.  She is inclined to pity him,
poor fellow, for going away solitary on the great Christmas festival; but she feels it much
more to the purpose to encourage him.  And she does encourage him.

He will write to her?

He will write to her every alternate day, and tell her all his adventures.

Does he send clothes on in advance of him?

'My dear Helena, no.  Travel like a pilgrim, with wallet and staff. My wallet--or my knapsack--is
packed, and ready for strapping on; and here is my staff!'

He hands it to her; she makes the same remark as Mr. Crisparkle, that it is very heavy; and
gives it back to him, asking what wood it is?  Iron-wood.

Up to this point he has been extremely cheerful.  Perhaps, the having to carry his case with
her, and therefore to present it in its brightest aspect, has roused his spirits.  Perhaps,
the having done so with success, is followed by a revulsion.  As the day closes in, and the
city-lights begin to spring up before them, he grows depressed.

'I wish I were not going to this dinner, Helena.'

'Dear Neville, is it worth while to care much about it?  Think how soon it will be over.'

'How soon it will be over!' he repeats gloomily.  'Yes.  But I don't like it.'

There may be a moment's awkwardness, she cheeringly represents to him, but it can only last
a moment.  He is quite sure of himself.

'I wish I felt as sure of everything else, as I feel of myself,' he answers her.

'How strangely you speak, dear!  What do you mean?'

'Helena, I don't know.  I only know that I don't like it.  What a strange dead weight there
is in the air!'

She calls his attention to those copperous clouds beyond the river, and says that the wind
is rising.  He scarcely speaks again, until he takes leave of her, at the gate of the Nuns'
House.  She does not immediately enter, when they have parted, but remains looking after him
along the street.  Twice he passes the gatehouse, reluctant to enter.  At length, the Cathedral
clock chiming one quarter, with a rapid turn he hurries in.

And so HE goes up the postern stair.

Edwin Drood passes a solitary day.  Something of deeper moment than he had thought, has gone
out of his life; and in the silence of his own chamber he wept for it last night.  Though the
image of Miss Landless still hovers in the background of his mind, the pretty little affectionate
creature, so much firmer and wiser than he had supposed, occupies its stronghold.  It is with
some misgiving of his own unworthiness that he thinks of her, and of what they might have been
to one another, if he had been more in earnest some time ago; if he had set a higher value
on her; if, instead of accepting his lot in life as an inheritance of course, he had studied
the right way to its appreciation and enhancement.  And still, for all this, and though there
is a sharp heartache in all this, the vanity and caprice of youth sustain that handsome figure
of Miss Landless in the background of his mind.

That was a curious look of Rosa's when they parted at the gate. Did it mean that she saw below
the surface of his thoughts, and down into their twilight depths?  Scarcely that, for it was
a look of astonished and keen inquiry.  He decides that he cannot understand it, though it
was remarkably expressive.

As he only waits for Mr. Grewgious now, and will depart immediately after having seen him,
he takes a sauntering leave of the ancient city and its neighbourhood.  He recalls the time
when Rosa and he walked here or there, mere children, full of the dignity of being engaged.
Poor children! he thinks, with a pitying sadness.

Finding that his watch has stopped, he turns into the jeweller's shop, to have it wound and
set.  The jeweller is knowing on the subject of a bracelet, which he begs leave to submit,
in a general and quite aimless way.  It would suit (he considers) a young bride, to perfection;
especially if of a rather diminutive style of beauty.  Finding the bracelet but coldly looked
at, the jeweller invites attention to a tray of rings for gentlemen; here is a style of ring,
now, he remarks--a very chaste signet--which gentlemen are much given to purchasing, when changing
their condition.  A ring of a very responsible appearance.  With the date of their wedding-day
engraved inside, several gentlemen have preferred it to any other kind of memento.

The rings are as coldly viewed as the bracelet.  Edwin tells the tempter that he wears no jewellery
but his watch and chain, which were his father's; and his shirt-pin.

'That I was aware of,' is the jeweller's reply, 'for Mr. Jasper dropped in for a watch-glass
the other day, and, in fact, I showed these articles to him, remarking that if he SHOULD wish
to make a present to a gentleman relative, on any particular occasion--But he said with a smile
that he had an inventory in his mind of all the jewellery his gentleman relative ever wore;
namely, his watch and chain, and his shirt-pin.'  Still (the jeweller considers) that might
not apply to all times, though applying to the present time. 'Twenty minutes past two, Mr.
Drood, I set your watch at.  Let me recommend you not to let it run down, sir.'

Edwin takes his watch, puts it on, and goes out, thinking:  'Dear old Jack!  If I were to make
an extra crease in my neckcloth, he would think it worth noticing!'

He strolls about and about, to pass the time until the dinner-hour. It somehow happens that
Cloisterham seems reproachful to him to- day; has fault to find with him, as if he had not
used it well; but is far more pensive with him than angry.  His wonted carelessness is replaced
by a wistful looking at, and dwelling upon, all the old landmarks.  He will soon be far away,
and may never see them again, he thinks.  Poor youth!  Poor youth!

As dusk draws on, he paces the Monks' Vineyard.  He has walked to and fro, full half an hour
by the Cathedral chimes, and it has closed in dark, before he becomes quite aware of a woman
crouching on the ground near a wicket gate in a corner.  The gate commands a cross bye-path,
little used in the gloaming; and the figure must have been there all the time, though he has
but gradually and lately made it out.

He strikes into that path, and walks up to the wicket.  By the light of a lamp near it, he
sees that the woman is of a haggard appearance, and that her weazen chin is resting on her
hands, and that her eyes are staring--with an unwinking, blind sort of steadfastness--before her.

Always kindly, but moved to be unusually kind this evening, and having bestowed kind words
on most of the children and aged people he has met, he at once bends down, and speaks to this
woman.

'Are you ill?'

'No, deary,' she answers, without looking at him, and with no departure from her strange blind
stare.

'Are you blind?'

'No, deary.'

'Are you lost, homeless, faint?  What is the matter, that you stay here in the cold so long,
without moving?'

By slow and stiff efforts, she appears to contract her vision until it can rest upon him; and
then a curious film passes over her, and she begins to shake.

He straightens himself, recoils a step, and looks down at her in a dread amazement; for he
seems to know her.

'Good Heaven!' he thinks, next moment.  'Like Jack that night!'

As he looks down at her, she looks up at him, and whimpers:  'My lungs is weakly; my lungs
is dreffle bad.  Poor me, poor me, my cough is rattling dry!' and coughs in confirmation horribly.

'Where do you come from?'

'Come from London, deary.'  (Her cough still rending her.)

'Where are you going to?'

'Back to London, deary.  I came here, looking for a needle in a haystack, and I ain't found
it.  Look'ee, deary; give me three-and- sixpence, and don't you be afeard for me.  I'll get
back to London then, and trouble no one.  I'm in a business.--Ah, me!  It's slack, it's slack,
and times is very bad!--but I can make a shift to live by it.'

'Do you eat opium?'

'Smokes it,' she replies with difficulty, still racked by her cough.  'Give me three-and-sixpence,
and I'll lay it out well, and get back.  If you don't give me three-and-sixpence, don't give
me a brass farden.  And if you do give me three-and-sixpence, deary, I'll tell you something.'

He counts the money from his pocket, and puts it in her hand.  She instantly clutches it tight,
and rises to her feet with a croaking laugh of satisfaction.

'Bless ye!  Hark'ee, dear genl'mn.  What's your Chris'en name?'

'Edwin.'

'Edwin, Edwin, Edwin,' she repeats, trailing off into a drowsy repetition of the word; and
then asks suddenly:  'Is the short of that name Eddy?'

'It is sometimes called so,' he replies, with the colour starting to his face.

'Don't sweethearts call it so?' she asks, pondering.

'How should I know?'

'Haven't you a sweetheart, upon your soul?'

'None.'

She is moving away, with another 'Bless ye, and thank'ee, deary!' when he adds:  'You were
to tell me something; you may as well do so.'

'So I was, so I was.  Well, then.  Whisper.  You be thankful that your name ain't Ned.'

He looks at her quite steadily, as he asks:  'Why?'

'Because it's a bad name to have just now.'

'How a bad name?'

'A threatened name.  A dangerous name.'

'The proverb says that threatened men live long,' he tells her, lightly.

'Then Ned--so threatened is he, wherever he may be while I am a- talking to you, deary--should
live to all eternity!' replies the woman.

She has leaned forward to say it in his ear, with her forefinger shaking before his eyes, and
now huddles herself together, and with another 'Bless ye, and thank'ee!' goes away in the direction
of the Travellers' Lodging House.

This is not an inspiriting close to a dull day.  Alone, in a sequestered place, surrounded
by vestiges of old time and decay, it rather has a tendency to call a shudder into being. 
He makes for the better-lighted streets, and resolves as he walks on to say nothing of this
to-night, but to mention it to Jack (who alone calls him Ned), as an odd coincidence, to-morrow;
of course only as a coincidence, and not as anything better worth remembering.

Still, it holds to him, as many things much better worth remembering never did.  He has another
mile or so, to linger out before the dinner-hour; and, when he walks over the bridge and by
the river, the woman's words are in the rising wind, in the angry sky, in the troubled water,
in the flickering lights.  There is some solemn echo of them even in the Cathedral chime, which
strikes a sudden surprise to his heart as he turns in under the archway of the gatehouse.

And so HE goes up the postern stair.

John Jasper passes a more agreeable and cheerful day than either of his guests.  Having no
music-lessons to give in the holiday season, his time is his own, but for the Cathedral services.
He is early among the shopkeepers, ordering little table luxuries that his nephew likes.  His
nephew will not be with him long, he tells his provision-dealers, and so must be petted and
made much of.  While out on his hospitable preparations, he looks in on Mr. Sapsea; and mentions
that dear Ned, and that inflammable young spark of Mr. Crisparkle's, are to dine at the gatehouse
to-day, and make up their difference.  Mr. Sapsea is by no means friendly towards the inflammable
young spark.  He says that his complexion is 'Un- English.'  And when Mr. Sapsea has once declared
anything to be Un- English, he considers that thing everlastingly sunk in the bottomless pit.

John Jasper is truly sorry to hear Mr. Sapsea speak thus, for he knows right well that Mr.
Sapsea never speaks without a meaning, and that he has a subtle trick of being right.  Mr.
Sapsea (by a very remarkable coincidence) is of exactly that opinion.

Mr. Jasper is in beautiful voice this day.  In the pathetic supplication to have his heart
inclined to keep this law, he quite astonishes his fellows by his melodious power.  He has
never sung difficult music with such skill and harmony, as in this day's Anthem.  His nervous
temperament is occasionally prone to take difficult music a little too quickly; to-day, his
time is perfect.

These results are probably attained through a grand composure of the spirits.  The mere mechanism
of his throat is a little tender, for he wears, both with his singing-robe and with his ordinary
dress, a large black scarf of strong close-woven silk, slung loosely round his neck.  But his
composure is so noticeable, that Mr. Crisparkle speaks of it as they come out from Vespers.

'I must thank you, Jasper, for the pleasure with which I have heard you to-day.  Beautiful!
Delightful!  You could not have so outdone yourself, I hope, without being wonderfully well.'

'I AM wonderfully well.'

'Nothing unequal,' says the Minor Canon, with a smooth motion of his hand:  'nothing unsteady,
nothing forced, nothing avoided; all thoroughly done in a masterly manner, with perfect self-command.'

'Thank you.  I hope so, if it is not too much to say.'

'One would think, Jasper, you had been trying a new medicine for that occasional indisposition
of yours.'

'No, really?  That's well observed; for I have.'

'Then stick to it, my good fellow,' says Mr. Crisparkle, clapping him on the shoulder with
friendly encouragement, 'stick to it.'

'I will.'

'I congratulate you,' Mr. Crisparkle pursues, as they come out of the Cathedral, 'on all accounts.'

'Thank you again.  I will walk round to the Corner with you, if you don't object; I have plenty
of time before my company come; and I want to say a word to you, which I think you will not
be displeased to hear.'

'What is it?'

'Well.  We were speaking, the other evening, of my black humours.'

Mr. Crisparkle's face falls, and he shakes his head deploringly.

'I said, you know, that I should make you an antidote to those black humours; and you said
you hoped I would consign them to the flames.'

'And I still hope so, Jasper.'

'With the best reason in the world!  I mean to burn this year's Diary at the year's end.'

'Because you--?'  Mr. Crisparkle brightens greatly as he thus begins.

'You anticipate me.  Because I feel that I have been out of sorts, gloomy, bilious, brain-oppressed,
whatever it may be.  You said I had been exaggerative.  So I have.'

Mr. Crisparkle's brightened face brightens still more.

'I couldn't see it then, because I WAS out of sorts; but I am in a healthier state now, and
I acknowledge it with genuine pleasure.  I made a great deal of a very little; that's the fact.'

'It does me good,' cries Mr. Crisparkle, 'to hear you say it!'

'A man leading a monotonous life,' Jasper proceeds, 'and getting his nerves, or his stomach,
out of order, dwells upon an idea until it loses its proportions.  That was my case with the
idea in question.  So I shall burn the evidence of my case, when the book is full, and begin
the next volume with a clearer vision.'

'This is better,' says Mr. Crisparkle, stopping at the steps of his own door to shake hands,
'than I could have hoped.'

'Why, naturally,' returns Jasper.  'You had but little reason to hope that I should become
more like yourself.  You are always training yourself to be, mind and body, as clear as crystal,
and you always are, and never change; whereas I am a muddy, solitary, moping weed.  However,
I have got over that mope.  Shall I wait, while you ask if Mr. Neville has left for my place?
If not, he and I may walk round together.'

'I think,' says Mr. Crisparkle, opening the entrance-door with his key, 'that he left some
time ago; at least I know he left, and I think he has not come back.  But I'll inquire.  You
won't come in?'

'My company wait,' said Jasper, with a smile.

The Minor Canon disappears, and in a few moments returns.  As he thought, Mr. Neville has not
come back; indeed, as he remembers now, Mr. Neville said he would probably go straight to the
gatehouse.

'Bad manners in a host!' says Jasper.  'My company will be there before me!  What will you
bet that I don't find my company embracing?'

'I will bet--or I would, if ever I did bet,' returns Mr. Crisparkle, 'that your company will
have a gay entertainer this evening.'

Jasper nods, and laughs good-night!

He retraces his steps to the Cathedral door, and turns down past it to the gatehouse.  He sings,
in a low voice and with delicate expression, as he walks along.  It still seems as if a false
note were not within his power to-night, and as if nothing could hurry or retard him.  Arriving
thus under the arched entrance of his dwelling, he pauses for an instant in the shelter to
pull off that great black scarf, and bang it in a loop upon his arm.  For that brief time,
his face is knitted and stern.  But it immediately clears, as he resumes his singing, and his way.

And so HE goes up the postern stair.

The Precincts are never particularly well lighted; but the strong blasts of wind blowing out
many of the lamps (in some instances shattering the frames too, and bringing the glass rattling
to the ground), they are unusually dark to-night.  The darkness is augmented and confused,
by flying dust from the earth, dry twigs from the trees, and great ragged fragments from the
rooks' nests up in the tower.  The trees themselves so toss and creak, as this tangible part
of the darkness madly whirls about, that they seem in peril of being torn out of the earth:
while ever and again a crack, and a rushing fall, denote that some large branch has yielded
to the storm.

Not such power of wind has blown for many a winter night.  Chimneys topple in the streets,
and people hold to posts and corners, and to one another, to keep themselves upon their feet.
The violent rushes abate not, but increase in frequency and fury until at midnight, when the
streets are empty, the storm goes thundering along them, rattling at all the latches, and tearing
at all the shutters, as if warning the people to get up and fly with it, rather than have the
roofs brought down upon their brains.

Still, the red light burns steadily.  Nothing is steady but the red light.

All through the night the wind blows, and abates not.  But early in the morning, when there
is barely enough light in the east to dim the stars, it begins to lull.  From that time, with
occasional wild charges, like a wounded monster dying, it drops and sinks; and at full daylight
it is dead.

It is then seen that the hands of the Cathedral clock are torn off; that lead from the roof
has been stripped away, rolled up, and blown into the Close; and that some stones have been
displaced upon the summit of the great tower.  Christmas morning though it be, it is necessary
to send up workmen, to ascertain the extent of the damage done.  These, led by Durdles, go
aloft; while Mr. Tope and a crowd of early idlers gather down in Minor Canon Corner, shading
their eyes and watching for their appearance up there.

This cluster is suddenly broken and put aside by the hands of Mr. Jasper; all the gazing eyes
are brought down to the earth by his loudly inquiring of Mr. Crisparkle, at an open window:

'Where is my nephew?'

'He has not been here. 

In 1902, Chanute built a third type in which the balance by swinging back and forth the wing was held on
its axis. This three-decker had excellent results and was the Wright brothers to pass tests.
1904 Chanute St. Louis turned to an apparatus Forward to tow a glider out, he had this in mind,
the experiments Pilcher, which, as already mentioned, his flying machine fierte by horses in the
air. Chanute used Hochfieren his apparatus to a put on a car dynamo.

As a result, he was, however, when the Wright brothers came forward more and more, his experiments
on. On the one hand, led him to this his age - he is currently 77 years old - and the other,
it had entered into close relations to the Wrights, and had appreciated in them people learned that
with great energy and expertise devoted to the problem of flight. Their mechanical Knowledge, their
great practice in the small mechanics and their physical agility enabled the two in his opinion, cause
the work to a resounding success. He has are, therefore, to abandon the attempt as much as possible
helped, he is with them wealth of his experience included in their calculations skipped and
help become. Later, when the communications on the success of Wright's never wanted to be believed,
he has sought by word and writing to give them the recognition they deserve. When in the history
of ballooning is celebrated the work of Wright, we may Never forget the name of Chanute, who
selflessly in the interest of aviation engineering worked.

* * * * *

       

Gliding Experiments of the Wright brothers.

Wilbur Wright describes his and his brother's aeronautical career in detail in the Journal of the
Society of Western American engineers in December 1901 entitled: Some aeronautical experiments
(Some Aeronautical Experiments). The already testified in youth Interest in air at Wilbur Wright
first attempt was again awakened in 1896, new, as the telegraph brought the news to America
that the German flight engineer Lilienthal had crashed in his sensational experiments and killed.
He began to think so well of this man's fall was caused, but already the had executed a large
number of flights happy. He first studied the modern Books that dealt specifically with the bird
flight, particularly the work of Professor Marey. As soon after his brother Orville began to be interested
in the problem of flight, both decided to take practical tests. Most of the failures had to
their conviction in their main reason of insufficient practical exercise of aviation. You figured
that Lilienthal for 5 years in all only about 5 hours in open Flights have spent. As specialists
in bicycle technology, they compared these studies with the preliminaries of a cyclist ride
but in no case in lively streets could, if he had made only 5 hours driving tests. Of course,
Lilienthal had - the they had to accept - with its extremely low Uebungszeit learned a lot and a
Increasing the length of a continuous flight of 10 seconds you had been as powerful Consider progress.

They
decided to build a machine and at a wind speed of about 28 kilometers to test speed per hour. From
the outset, the samples should be first on an are string like a kite
made.

The initial size planned glider was made about 18 square meters large. The machine was a biplane
with two large Wing to the system Chanute. But the brothers had been very significant changes
made to your machine. The usual "tail" was omitted and a smaller wing replaced, which was located
outside the main areas. In this way, they thought to prevent tipping of the apparatus by the
wind pressure by the action of the small Surface as a counter force to the great served. Another
fundamental change was to that the pilot did not, as had previously happened, in an upright,
but lying in Position was.

has the advantages of the horizontal position of the airship in the glider is Wilbur Wright repeatedly
expressed. Mainly, he stressed that the resistance of a body to the air in the upright position is
almost three times as large as in a horizontal position.

While Lilienthal and his successor, Chanute, Herring and Pilcher assumed that swinging movements
the legs forward, backward and lateral substantially to the safety of the flight and would contribute
to maintain the balance, the Wrights by their years of experiments come to the conclusion that
it is precisely their position in flight offer significant benefits. Above all Things we find in
them the desire to feel as one with the machine. You go out from the very correct assumption
that they will save the smallest balance disorders lighter note and to counteract by small shifts
in the location of her body can. The steering is greater in this position. If the wind suddenly
greater pressure on the wings exercises, the swing is achieved more easily, if the aviator
is only with the poor in the machine, as if he is there, for the oscillating part of the body of man with
such changes is not the wing position also affected, so the resistance to this kind of balance in
this case much lower. Only on the descent and landing offers the advantages of continuous
layer, because the pilot does not need foreign help, and can only start against the wind.
The Wrights now had to either, as they did at first, start with their camera into the wind and,
as soon as the plane came to float to bring turnend in lying position, or, as they It last
did so two people can veer into the air. Likewise, they could at the landing by their legs more
easily absorb the shock spring. For longer glides now hanging Location extremely tiring. The compensatory
movements against the balance disorders require a disproportionate effort, excluding the long
flights at all would. Fall in a horizontal position, this force efforts continue at all, since
the machine lose even more difficult due to greater inertia, the tendency of stability. The fact
that the Nature of gliding only on soft ground would be executed, but the disadvantage after all
However, the risk to hurt himself on landing, much less than one assumes. The brothers landings have
tried both methods and with any injured. The lateral balance and the control that caused at Lilienthal
and Chanute by the movement of the airship was, was already in the first Wright's apparatus by a
curvature of the main support area be effected on the detailed description we want to come
back down.

A superbly suitable airfield was found in Kitty Hawk in North Carolina, a small Places on the peninsula,
the Albe Marle-Sound separates the Atlantic Ocean. First, let the Wright Brothers to the glider as a kite
at an air flow rate increase of 40-50 km per hour, with the surfaces at an angle of about 3 degrees
established. But as soon as the plane was loaded with a person and a wind of 40 km ascent, they
stood at 20 degrees.

There was now but soon, that of beautiful Days, winds of 50 miles per hour, which showed a much
greater lifting power, less were, and it was therefore impossible to practice every day and hour
by hour. By the experiments was recognized already that the lateral stability will be maintained
much better could, if they turned the land by carrying handle, as if the balloon through body
movements Balance problems would counteract. The tests were on a string, the Control lever
is moved from below by lines.

The time in the practical exercises with the manned aircraft could not be made, was used, measurements
of lift and train at various pressures and with different to take the curvature of sizes of the
areas. It turned out that the curvature ratio from 1:22 - to the depth of curvature of the wing - that
they used for the first construction had a not so good stroke showed as the ratio of 1:12.

The gliding flight tests were made 6 km south of Kitty Hawk Kill Devil of the Sand Hills, has an
inclination of 9.5 degrees at a height of 35 meters. The brothers ventured, however, only from the
ground to jump into the air when the wind speed of over an hour 20 km possessed. First, the experimenters
ran from a point just below the summit forward against the wind, jumped into the air and then
quickly did gymnastics in the recumbent position.

As this is the stability of very disturbed, were soon gliding flights with the help of two of the
The part of the land taken standing people, which took the machine and with it a Route ran forward.
The landing was contrary to expectations, extremely easy. If the speed of the flight was 35
km per hour, it took but neither the pilot nor the driver any damage. The machine obeyed extremely
easy and the slightest movement of the front-mounted control surfaces.

After the gliding experiments of 1900 were completed, the Wright summarized the lessons Results
together and presented to the following levels:

1. Practice is the key to the mystery of flight.

2. The airship will be in a horizontal position.

3. A narrow wings, a reversed inclination than the main wing, is necessary
for control.

4.

The control can be effected must, without the pilot changed his position, and finally

5. the lateral stability is provided far better by twisting the wing, than by body movements.

In
1901, the Wrights enlarged their machine to 35 square feet and gave
the wearing surfaces a curvature of 1:12.

Thus, they were, as far as size and curvature of the wing, the same size, just as she was initially
constructed by Lilienthal. This did have a slight curvature applied 1:15 or 1:18 last, but he had
found that the biggest lifting capacity available in a surface curvature of 1:12, but was simultaneously
also find that the balance was to keep this serious. On 27 Julie began Chanute in the presence of
the new experiments, which soon led to a reduction of the curvature. Before long they were able
to buy back the old practice and 100 meters slide, after several days already, they could
already in a powerful winds 25 sail up to 45 km of speed through the air. The results meant
that the Wrights, originally considered only flying as a sport, now scientifically relevant
tried to resolve issues. They built several model machines for wind pressure measurements and
made a large number of experiments with different surfaces, under an angle of 0-45 ° at intervals
were adjusted from 2-1/2 degrees.

So theoretically well prepared they were in August 1902 on the old field at Kitty Hawk their
attempts again.

In 1900 the width of its pilot had amounted to 5.64 meters, the depth of 1.52 meters, the entire
surface with control 15.6 square meters and weight of 21.8 Kilogram. In 1901 the proportions
were placed on the following numbers: width meters 6.7, Depth of 2.13 meters, surface 21.0 square
meters, weight 45.5 kg in 1902 to 9.75 meters, 1.52 meters, 28.4 square meters and 53.0 kilograms.

The
distance of the main support arranged in tiers surfaces was about 1.40 meters. The vertical
Horizontal tax was doubled, with its 1.3-square-meter area as a two-part
Tail at the back attached.

The frame consisted of spruce wood with steel wires was held together in bridge construction.
The tightening of the wires was ingeniously carried out in such a way that you could put the wires or
any later release. The material used piano wire was used. The fabric of the area was with balloon fabric
takes place, which has little or almost no permeability to air. The first Construction of permeable
material had been found to be unsuitable.

Again the trials were started on a strap line without crew, and only than the stability of the
new machines undoubtedly, it was clear the brothers began the Gleitversuohen.

Both soon gained an extraordinary large practice and learned from all, know the impact of changing
direction and strength with blowing wind. Of course the two accidents were also not spared,
and occasionally also suffered some of their machine Accidents. But in general, these incidents
to name but small compared to the large Number of flights. In particular, it is noteworthy that the
landings are usually very gently went on. The flying machine has just accused you know, that the
Landings would usually go with a very violent kick from Amsterdam, because the means of the
gas buoyancy lacking. The comparison that you have drawn here with the landing of free balloons,
has as well proved so inaccurate, as in the Landings with severe motor balloon, that Go down
to earth one can imagine without sudden impact could not. Excellent works very well with the landings,
the front height control, which, at the last moment something lifted, the landing designed especially
gentle.

The finally arrive at sliding this year even with wind speeds up to 16.7 meters per second. The
flight duration was generally up to 15 seconds, but Finally, it was
increased even up to 26 seconds.

On the whole, were in 1902 approximately 1,000 flights made the longest flight at a time of
26 seconds a distance was of 622.5 meters.

Now, the brothers voted on a plan, an engine installed in your machine, so they took first detailed
measurements of the lifting power of their apparatus and found that
Engine power to lift their machines at various wind speeds required
was.

The weight of the machine of 1902 was 53.0 kg, came to the weights of the two Pilots: Wilbur Wright
and Orville Wright 61.4 kg 65.2 kg, which implies that the entire either had to lift 114.4 kg
or 118.2 kg. It turned out that at 25 km wind speed, the lift capacity was about 1-1/2 hp, at
40 km speed 2 HP. The landing was usually at an angle in front of him, of between 6 degrees and
7 degrees 10 minutes 20 min varied. This small angle, the landing was also very relieved. Beginning
of 1903 continued these efforts even further, and occasionally, in strong winds could Wilbur
Wright to stay 72 seconds in the air, passing through the Wind was at times over the same
spot on the ground held in the air, or driven back. The distance was at the record flight no
more than 30 meters. The planned Engine plane was calculated for a weight of 300 kg and should
have 8 hp. The screws were constructed very simply and applied in the shipping imitated. When
the engine sample However, they changed the shape of screws and came to the form that today
their Machine has. The net effect was originally 66 per cent, therefore, a third more than is
today, with the screws, which had used the flight engineer Maxim and Langley he amount to over
70 per cent. Then the end of 1903 began flight tests with the engine pilot.

The engine of the Wright Flyer.

At work the flying machine had undergone various changes. The engine was 16 hp and weighed,
carburetor and flywheel included, 62.7 kilograms.

There were two propellers mounted directly behind the main wing,
which is directed in different senses rotated at 1200 revolutions
per minute.

The engine, four-stroke gasoline engine with 4 cylinders, was built in the factory of the Wrights.
In one hour, 4.5 kg fuel were consumed.

The wing had a width of 12.25 meters, a depth of 6.12 meters and a surface 48 square meters.
On 17 December 1903 were on a cold and windy days to Kill Devil at
Kitty Hawk in the presence of only 5 people, the first flight tests
with the engine plane undertaken.

This day is therefore the birthday of the first free-flying under its own power view propelled flying
machine.


'One of this young couple, and that one your nephew, fearful, however, that in the tenderness
of your affection for him you would be bitterly disappointed by so wide a departure from his
projected life, forbore to tell you the secret, for a few days, and left it to be disclosed
by me, when I should come down to speak to you, and he would be gone.  I speak to you, and
he is gone.'

Mr. Grewgious saw the ghastly figure throw back its head, clutch its hair with its hands, and
turn with a writhing action from him.

'I have now said all I have to say:  except that this young couple parted, firmly, though not
without tears and sorrow, on the evening when you last saw them together.'

Mr. Grewgious heard a terrible shriek, and saw no ghastly figure, sitting or standing; saw
nothing but a heap of torn and miry clothes upon the floor.

Not changing his action even then, he opened and shut the palms of his hands as he warmed them,
and looked down at it.

CHAPTER XVI--DEVOTED

When John Jasper recovered from his fit or swoon, he found himself being tended by Mr. and
Mrs. Tope, whom his visitor had summoned for the purpose.  His visitor, wooden of aspect, sat
stiffly in a chair, with his hands upon his knees, watching his recovery.

'There!  You've come to nicely now, sir,' said the tearful Mrs. Tope; 'you were thoroughly
worn out, and no wonder!'

'A man,' said Mr. Grewgious, with his usual air of repeating a lesson, 'cannot have his rest
broken, and his mind cruelly tormented, and his body overtaxed by fatigue, without being thoroughly
worn out.'

'I fear I have alarmed you?' Jasper apologised faintly, when he was helped into his easy-chair.

'Not at all, I thank you,' answered Mr. Grewgious.

'You are too considerate.'

'Not at all, I thank you,' answered Mr. Grewgious again.

'You must take some wine, sir,' said Mrs. Tope, 'and the jelly that I had ready for you, and
that you wouldn't put your lips to at noon, though I warned you what would come of it, you
know, and you not breakfasted; and you must have a wing of the roast fowl that has been put
back twenty times if it's been put back once.  It shall all be on table in five minutes, and
this good gentleman belike will stop and see you take it.'

This good gentleman replied with a snort, which might mean yes, or no, or anything or nothing,
and which Mrs. Tope would have found highly mystifying, but that her attention was divided
by the service of the table.

'You will take something with me?' said Jasper, as the cloth was laid.

'I couldn't get a morsel down my throat, I thank you,' answered Mr. Grewgious.

Jasper both ate and drank almost voraciously.  Combined with the hurry in his mode of doing
it, was an evident indifference to the taste of what he took, suggesting that he ate and drank
to fortify himself against any other failure of the spirits, far more than to gratify his palate.
Mr. Grewgious in the meantime sat upright, with no expression in his face, and a hard kind
of imperturbably polite protest all over him:  as though he would have said, in reply to some
invitation to discourse; 'I couldn't originate the faintest approach to an observation on any
subject whatever, I thank you.'

'Do you know,' said Jasper, when he had pushed away his plate and glass, and had sat meditating
for a few minutes:  'do you know that I find some crumbs of comfort in the communication with
which you have so much amazed me?'

'DO you?' returned Mr. Grewgious, pretty plainly adding the unspoken clause:  'I don't, I thank
you!'

'After recovering from the shock of a piece of news of my dear boy, so entirely unexpected,
and so destructive of all the castles I had built for him; and after having had time to think
of it; yes.'

'I shall be glad to pick up your crumbs,' said Mr. Grewgious, dryly.

'Is there not, or is there--if I deceive myself, tell me so, and shorten my pain--is there
not, or is there, hope that, finding himself in this new position, and becoming sensitively
alive to the awkward burden of explanation, in this quarter, and that, and the other, with
which it would load him, he avoided the awkwardness, and took to flight?'

'Such a thing might be,' said Mr. Grewgious, pondering.

'Such a thing has been.  I have read of cases in which people, rather than face a seven days'
wonder, and have to account for themselves to the idle and impertinent, have taken themselves
away, and been long unheard of.'

'I believe such things have happened,' said Mr. Grewgious, pondering still.

'When I had, and could have, no suspicion,' pursued Jasper, eagerly following the new track,
'that the dear lost boy had withheld anything from me--most of all, such a leading matter as
this--what gleam of light was there for me in the whole black sky?  When I supposed that his
intended wife was here, and his marriage close at hand, how could I entertain the possibility
of his voluntarily leaving this place, in a manner that would be so unaccountable, capricious,
and cruel?  But now that I know what you have told me, is there no little chink through which
day pierces?  Supposing him to have disappeared of his own act, is not his disappearance more
accountable and less cruel?  The fact of his having just parted from your ward, is in itself
a sort of reason for his going away. It does not make his mysterious departure the less cruel
to me, it is true; but it relieves it of cruelty to her.'

Mr. Grewgious could not but assent to this.

'And even as to me,' continued Jasper, still pursuing the new track, with ardour, and, as he
did so, brightening with hope:  'he knew that you were coming to me; he knew that you were
intrusted to tell me what you have told me; if your doing so has awakened a new train of thought
in my perplexed mind, it reasonably follows that, from the same premises, he might have foreseen
the inferences that I should draw.  Grant that he did foresee them; and even the cruelty to
me--and who am I!--John Jasper, Music Master, vanishes!' -

Once more, Mr. Grewgious could not but assent to this.

'I have had my distrusts, and terrible distrusts they have been,' said Jasper; 'but your disclosure,
overpowering as it was at first- -showing me that my own dear boy had had a great disappointing
reservation from me, who so fondly loved him, kindles hope within me.  You do not extinguish
it when I state it, but admit it to be a reasonable hope.  I begin to believe it possible:'
here he clasped his hands:  'that he may have disappeared from among us of his own accord,
and that he may yet be alive and well.'

Mr. Crisparkle came in at the moment.  To whom Mr. Jasper repeated:

'I begin to believe it possible that he may have disappeared of his own accord, and may yet
be alive and well.'

Mr. Crisparkle taking a seat, and inquiring:  'Why so?'  Mr. Jasper repeated the arguments
he had just set forth.  If they had been less plausible than they were, the good Minor Canon's
mind would have been in a state of preparation to receive them, as exculpatory of his unfortunate
pupil.  But he, too, did really attach great importance to the lost young man's having been,
so immediately before his disappearance, placed in a new and embarrassing relation towards
every one acquainted with his projects and affairs; and the fact seemed to him to present the
question in a new light.

'I stated to Mr. Sapsea, when we waited on him,' said Jasper:  as he really had done:  'that
there was no quarrel or difference between the two young men at their last meeting.  We all
know that their first meeting was unfortunately very far from amicable; but all went smoothly
and quietly when they were last together at my house.  My dear boy was not in his usual spirits;
he was depressed- -I noticed that--and I am bound henceforth to dwell upon the circumstance
the more, now that I know there was a special reason for his being depressed:  a reason, moreover,
which may possibly have induced him to absent himself.'

'I pray to Heaven it may turn out so!' exclaimed Mr. Crisparkle.

'I pray to Heaven it may turn out so!' repeated Jasper.  'You know--and Mr. Grewgious should
now know likewise--that I took a great prepossession against Mr. Neville Landless, arising
out of his furious conduct on that first occasion.  You know that I came to you, extremely
apprehensive, on my dear boy's behalf, of his mad violence.  You know that I even entered in
my Diary, and showed the entry to you, that I had dark forebodings against him.  Mr. Grewgious
ought to be possessed of the whole case.  He shall not, through any suppression of mine, be
informed of a part of it, and kept in ignorance of another part of it.  I wish him to be good
enough to understand that the communication he has made to me has hopefully influenced my mind,
in spite of its having been, before this mysterious occurrence took place, profoundly impressed
against young Landless.'

This fairness troubled the Minor Canon much.  He felt that he was not as open in his own dealing.
He charged against himself reproachfully that he had suppressed, so far, the two points of
a second strong outbreak of temper against Edwin Drood on the part of Neville, and of the passion
of jealousy having, to his own certain knowledge, flamed up in Neville's breast against him.
He was convinced of Neville's innocence of any part in the ugly disappearance; and yet so many
little circumstances combined so wofully against him, that he dreaded to add two more to their
cumulative weight.  He was among the truest of men; but he had been balancing in his mind,
much to its distress, whether his volunteering to tell these two fragments of truth, at this
time, would not be tantamount to a piecing together of falsehood in the place of truth.

However, here was a model before him.  He hesitated no longer. Addressing Mr. Grewgious, as
one placed in authority by the revelation he had brought to bear on the mystery (and surpassingly
Angular Mr. Grewgious became when he found himself in that unexpected position), Mr. Crisparkle
bore his testimony to Mr. Jasper's strict sense of justice, and, expressing his absolute confidence
in the complete clearance of his pupil from the least taint of suspicion, sooner or later,
avowed that his confidence in that young gentleman had been formed, in spite of his confidential
knowledge that his temper was of the hottest and fiercest, and that it was directly incensed
against Mr. Jasper's nephew, by the circumstance of his romantically supposing himself to be
enamoured of the same young lady.  The sanguine reaction manifest in Mr. Jasper was proof even
against this unlooked-for declaration.  It turned him paler; but he repeated that he would
cling to the hope he had derived from Mr. Grewgious; and that if no trace of his dear boy were
found, leading to the dreadful inference that he had been made away with, he would cherish
unto the last stretch of possibility the idea, that he might have absconded of his own wild will.

Now, it fell out that Mr. Crisparkle, going away from this conference still very uneasy in
his mind, and very much troubled on behalf of the young man whom he held as a kind of prisoner
in his own house, took a memorable night walk.

He walked to Cloisterham Weir.

He often did so, and consequently there was nothing remarkable in his footsteps tending that
way.  But the preoccupation of his mind so hindered him from planning any walk, or taking heed
of the objects he passed, that his first consciousness of being near the Weir, was derived
from the sound of the falling water close at hand.

'How did I come here!' was his first thought, as he stopped.

'Why did I come here!' was his second.

Then, he stood intently listening to the water.  A familiar passage in his reading, about airy
tongues that syllable men's names, rose so unbidden to his ear, that he put it from him with
his hand, as if it were tangible.

It was starlight.  The Weir was full two miles above the spot to which the young men had repaired
to watch the storm.  No search had been made up here, for the tide had been running strongly
down, at that time of the night of Christmas Eve, and the likeliest places for the discovery
of a body, if a fatal accident had happened under such circumstances, all lay--both when the
tide ebbed, and when it flowed again--between that spot and the sea.  The water came over the
Weir, with its usual sound on a cold starlight night, and little could be seen of it; yet Mr.
Crisparkle had a strange idea that something unusual hung about the place.

He reasoned with himself:  What was it?  Where was it?  Put it to the proof.  Which sense did
it address?

No sense reported anything unusual there.  He listened again, and his sense of hearing again
checked the water coming over the Weir, with its usual sound on a cold starlight night.

Knowing very well that the mystery with which his mind was occupied, might of itself give the
place this haunted air, he strained those hawk's eyes of his for the correction of his sight.
He got closer to the Weir, and peered at its well-known posts and timbers.  Nothing in the
least unusual was remotely shadowed forth. But he resolved that he would come back early in
the morning.

The Weir ran through his broken sleep, all night, and he was back again at sunrise.  It was
a bright frosty morning.  The whole composition before him, when he stood where he had stood
last night, was clearly discernible in its minutest details.  He had surveyed it closely for
some minutes, and was about to withdraw his eyes, when they were attracted keenly to one spot.

He turned his back upon the Weir, and looked far away at the sky, and at the earth, and then
looked again at that one spot.  It caught his sight again immediately, and he concentrated
his vision upon it.  He could not lose it now, though it was but such a speck in the landscape.
It fascinated his sight.  His hands began plucking off his coat.

He assured himself of this, he threw off his clothes, he plunged into the icy water, and swam
for the spot.

With these discoveries he returned to Cloisterham, and, taking Neville Landless with him, went
straight to the Mayor.  Mr. Jasper was sent for, the watch and shirt-pin were identified, Neville
was detained, and the wildest frenzy and fatuity of evil report rose against him.  He was of
that vindictive and violent nature, that but for his poor sister, who alone had influence over
him, and out of whose sight he was never to be trusted, he would be in the daily commission
of murder.  Before coming to England he had caused to be whipped to death sundry 'Natives'--nomadic
persons, encamping now in Asia, now in Africa, now in the West Indies, and now at the North
Pole--vaguely supposed in Cloisterham to be always black, always of great virtue, always calling
themselves Me, and everybody else Massa or Missie (according to sex), and always reading tracts
of the obscurest meaning, in broken English, but always accurately understanding them in the
purest mother tongue.  He had nearly brought Mrs. Crisparkle's grey hairs with sorrow to the
grave. (Those original expressions were Mr. Sapsea's.)  He had repeatedly said he would have
Mr. Crisparkle's life.  He had repeatedly said he would have everybody's life, and become in
effect the last man. He had been brought down to Cloisterham, from London, by an eminent Philanthropist,
and why?  Because that Philanthropist had expressly declared:  'I owe it to my fellow-creatures
that he should be, in the words of BENTHAM, where he is the cause of the greatest danger to
the smallest number.'

These dropping shots from the blunderbusses of blunderheadedness might not have hit him in
a vital place.  But he had to stand against a trained and well-directed fire of arms of precision
too. He had notoriously threatened the lost young man, and had, according to the showing of
his own faithful friend and tutor who strove so hard for him, a cause of bitter animosity (created
by himself, and stated by himself), against that ill-starred fellow. He had armed himself with
an offensive weapon for the fatal night, and he had gone off early in the morning, after making
preparations for departure.  He had been found with traces of blood on him; truly, they might
have been wholly caused as he represented, but they might not, also.  On a search-warrant being
issued for the examination of his room, clothes, and so forth, it was discovered that he had
destroyed all his papers, and rearranged all his possessions, on the very afternoon of the
disappearance.  The watch found at the Weir was challenged by the jeweller as one he had wound
and set for Edwin Drood, at twenty minutes past two on that same afternoon; and it had run
down, before being cast into the water; and it was the jeweller's positive opinion that it
had never been re-wound.  This would justify the hypothesis that the watch was taken from him
not long after he left Mr. Jasper's house at midnight, in company with the last person seen
with him, and that it had been thrown away after being retained some hours.  Why thrown away?
If he had been murdered, and so artfully disfigured, or concealed, or both, as that the murderer
hoped identification to be impossible, except from something that he wore, assuredly the murderer
would seek to remove from the body the most lasting, the best known, and the most easily recognisable,
things upon it. Those things would be the watch and shirt-pin.  As to his opportunities of
casting them into the river; if he were the object of these suspicions, they were easy.  For,
he had been seen by many persons, wandering about on that side of the city--indeed on all sides
of it--in a miserable and seemingly half-distracted manner. As to the choice of the spot, obviously
such criminating evidence had better take its chance of being found anywhere, rather than upon
himself, or in his possession.  Concerning the reconciliatory nature of the appointed meeting
between the two young men, very little could be made of that in young Landless's favour; for
it distinctly appeared that the meeting originated, not with him, but with Mr. Crisparkle,
and that it had been urged on by Mr. Crisparkle; and who could say how unwillingly, or in what
ill- conditioned mood, his enforced pupil had gone to it?  The more his case was looked into,
the weaker it became in every point.  Even the broad suggestion that the lost young man had
absconded, was rendered additionally improbable on the showing of the young lady from whom
he had so lately parted; for; what did she say, with great earnestness and sorrow, when interrogated?
That he had, expressly and enthusiastically, planned with her, that he would await the arrival
of her guardian, Mr. Grewgious.  And yet, be it observed, he disappeared before that gentleman
appeared.

On the suspicions thus urged and supported, Neville was detained, and re-detained, and the
search was pressed on every hand, and Jasper laboured night and day.  But nothing more was
found.  No discovery being made, which proved the lost man to be dead, it at length became
necessary to release the person suspected of having made away with him.  Neville was set at
large.  Then, a consequence ensued which Mr. Crisparkle had too well foreseen.  Neville must
leave the place, for the place shunned him and cast him out.  Even had it not been so, the
dear old china shepherdess would have worried herself to death with fears for her son, and
with general trepidation occasioned by their having such an inmate.  Even had that not been
so, the authority to which the Minor Canon deferred officially, would have settled the point. Now the carpenter wanted Andres know
so much of everything, still more, and Wiseli told on and on, as though It would not stop. And
Andres listened intently.

In this way, then passed the Wiseli one day after the other. For each low service which it provided,
he thanked the other, as if he's the biggest benefit would have been found. And what it did just
liked the good man, and he had praise for it. He was in a few Days as fresh and lively in the care,
that he wanted to get up. The doctor was quite surprised how well it went and how happy Andrew
the carpenter looked at once. He sat now all day at the window where the sun went, and looked
after every step of the Wiseli Occurs, as if he even could never see enough - as it opened
a box and then again, as he was under the hands everything clean and tidy, as he never before
had seen.

Wiseli but was happy in my quiet little house, as it heard only loving words and under the
friendly eyes that accompanied it constantly. It is not allowed because To think how soon the fortnight
would be to end it and return again to the book Rain had.

8. Chapter (It happens, something unexpected)

In the house on the slope was much talk of the carpenter and Andres Wiseli. Every Morning the
woman look colonel, as going to the patient, and each time they brought back Report a happier home.

The
offset in all the joyous mood. Otto and Pussy made a plan, like a big hard recovery would
have to be celebrated in Schreiner Andres office, but before Wiseli Rain returned to the book.
That should be a main joy and for Andres and a Wiseli be big surprise.

Solemnly Otto had already sat down and Pussy in great expectation of all the things were to come.

Now
father and mother appeared, and the good meal began. After the first court had been consumed
fun, appeared a been covered dish. This was the birthday court. The lid was lifted, and a
fine cauliflower was there, as fresh as if he had just brought in
the garden.

"This is a magnificent flower," said the father, "the praise you have. You know, dear Marie, I
look at tables covered in only after artichokes.

"But suddenly she said nothing and went down quickly with their arms
up under the table and was completely blood red become. Otto and sat
opposite her and threw her angry glances.

"What is it strange for
a celebration of my birthday?" asked the astonished father.  The discovery of the watch and shirt-pin convinces me that he was
murdered that night, and that his jewellery was taken from him to prevent identification by
its means.  All the delusive hopes I had founded on his separation from his betrothed wife,
I give to the winds.  They perish before this fatal discovery.  I now swear, and record the
oath on this page, That I nevermore will discuss this mystery with any human creature until
I hold the clue to it in my hand.  That I never will relax in my secrecy or in my search. 
That I will fasten the crime of the murder of my dear dead boy upon the murderer.  And, That
I devote myself to his destruction.'

CHAPTER XVII--PHILANTHROPY, PROFESSIONAL AND UNPROFESSIONAL

Full half a year had come and gone, and Mr. Crisparkle sat in a waiting-room in the London
chief offices of the Haven of Philanthropy, until he could have audience of Mr. Honeythunder.

In his college days of athletic exercises, Mr. Crisparkle had known professors of the Noble
Art of fisticuffs, and had attended two or three of their gloved gatherings.  He had now an
opportunity of observing that as to the phrenological formation of the backs of their heads,
the Professing Philanthropists were uncommonly like the Pugilists.  In the development of all
those organs which constitute, or attend, a propensity to 'pitch into' your fellow- creatures,
the Philanthropists were remarkably favoured.  There were several Professors passing in and
out, with exactly the aggressive air upon them of being ready for a turn-up with any Novice
who might happen to be on hand, that Mr. Crisparkle well remembered in the circles of the Fancy.
Preparations were in progress for a moral little Mill somewhere on the rural circuit, and other
Professors were backing this or that Heavy-Weight as good for such or such speech-making hits,
so very much after the manner of the sporting publicans, that the intended Resolutions might
have been Rounds.  In an official manager of these displays much celebrated for his platform
tactics, Mr. Crisparkle recognised (in a suit of black) the counterpart of a deceased benefactor
of his species, an eminent public character, once known to fame as Frosty- faced Fogo, who
in days of yore superintended the formation of the magic circle with the ropes and stakes.
There were only three conditions of resemblance wanting between these Professors and those.
Firstly, the Philanthropists were in very bad training: much too fleshy, and presenting, both
in face and figure, a superabundance of what is known to Pugilistic Experts as Suet Pudding.
Secondly, the Philanthropists had not the good temper of the Pugilists, and used worse language.
Thirdly, their fighting code stood in great need of revision, as empowering them not only to
bore their man to the ropes, but to bore him to the confines of distraction; also to hit him
when he was down, hit him anywhere and anyhow, kick him, stamp upon him, gouge him, and maul
him behind his back without mercy.  In these last particulars the Professors of the Noble Art
were much nobler than the Professors of Philanthropy.

Mr. Crisparkle was so completely lost in musing on these similarities and dissimilarities,
at the same time watching the crowd which came and went by, always, as it seemed, on errands
of antagonistically snatching something from somebody, and never giving anything to anybody,
that his name was called before he heard it.  On his at length responding, he was shown by
a miserably shabby and underpaid stipendiary Philanthropist (who could hardly have done worse
if he had taken service with a declared enemy of the human race) to Mr. Honeythunder's room.

'Sir,' said Mr. Honeythunder, in his tremendous voice, like a schoolmaster issuing orders to
a boy of whom he had a bad opinion, 'sit down.'

Mr. Crisparkle seated himself.

Mr. Honeythunder having signed the remaining few score of a few thousand circulars, calling
upon a corresponding number of families without means to come forward, stump up instantly,
and be Philanthropists, or go to the Devil, another shabby stipendiary Philanthropist (highly
disinterested, if in earnest) gathered these into a basket and walked off with them.

'Now, Mr. Crisparkle,' said Mr. Honeythunder, turning his chair half round towards him when
they were alone, and squaring his arms with his hands on his knees, and his brows knitted,
as if he added, I am going to make short work of YOU:  'Now, Mr. Crisparkle, we entertain different
views, you and I, sir, of the sanctity of human life.'

'Do we?' returned the Minor Canon.

'We do, sir?'

'Might I ask you,' said the Minor Canon:  'what are your views on that subject?'

'That human life is a thing to be held sacred, sir.'

'Might I ask you,' pursued the Minor Canon as before:  'what you suppose to be my views on
that subject?'

'By George, sir!' returned the Philanthropist, squaring his arms still more, as he frowned
on Mr. Crisparkle:  'they are best known to yourself.'

'Readily admitted.  But you began by saying that we took different views, you know.  Therefore
(or you could not say so) you must have set up some views as mine.  Pray, what views HAVE you
set up as mine?'

'Here is a man--and a young man,' said Mr. Honeythunder, as if that made the matter infinitely
worse, and he could have easily borne the loss of an old one, 'swept off the face of the earth
by a deed of violence.  What do you call that?'

'Murder,' said the Minor Canon.

'What do you call the doer of that deed, sir?

'A murderer,' said the Minor Canon.

'I am glad to hear you admit so much, sir,' retorted Mr. Honeythunder, in his most offensive
manner; 'and I candidly tell you that I didn't expect it.'  Here he lowered heavily at Mr.
Crisparkle again.

'Be so good as to explain what you mean by those very unjustifiable expressions.'

'I don't sit here, sir,' returned the Philanthropist, raising his voice to a roar, 'to be browbeaten.'

'As the only other person present, no one can possibly know that better than I do,' returned
the Minor Canon very quietly.  'But I interrupt your explanation.'

'Murder!' proceeded Mr. Honeythunder, in a kind of boisterous reverie, with his platform folding
of his arms, and his platform nod of abhorrent reflection after each short sentiment of a word.
'Bloodshed!  Abel!  Cain!  I hold no terms with Cain.  I repudiate with a shudder the red hand
when it is offered me.'

Instead of instantly leaping into his chair and cheering himself hoarse, as the Brotherhood
in public meeting assembled would infallibly have done on this cue, Mr. Crisparkle merely reversed
the quiet crossing of his legs, and said mildly:  'Don't let me interrupt your explanation--when
you begin it.'

'The Commandments say, no murder.  NO murder, sir!' proceeded Mr. Honeythunder, platformally
pausing as if he took Mr. Crisparkle to task for having distinctly asserted that they said:
You may do a little murder, and then leave off.

'And they also say, you shall bear no false witness,' observed Mr. Crisparkle.

'Enough!' bellowed Mr. Honeythunder, with a solemnity and severity that would have brought
the house down at a meeting, 'E-e-nough! My late wards being now of age, and I being released
from a trust which I cannot contemplate without a thrill of horror, there are the accounts
which you have undertaken to accept on their behalf, and there is a statement of the balance
which you have undertaken to receive, and which you cannot receive too soon.  And let me tell
you, sir, I wish that, as a man and a Minor Canon, you were better employed,' with a nod. 
'Better employed,' with another nod.  'Bet- ter em-ployed!' with another and the three nods
added up.

Mr. Crisparkle rose; a little heated in the face, but with perfect command of himself.

'Mr. Honeythunder,' he said, taking up the papers referred to:  'my being better or worse employed
than I am at present is a matter of taste and opinion.  You might think me better employed
in enrolling myself a member of your Society.'

'Ay, indeed, sir!' retorted Mr. Honeythunder, shaking his head in a threatening manner.  'It
would have been better for you if you had done that long ago!'

'I think otherwise.'

'Or,' said Mr. Honeythunder, shaking his head again, 'I might think one of your profession
better employed in devoting himself to the discovery and punishment of guilt than in leaving
that duty to be undertaken by a layman.'

'I may regard my profession from a point of view which teaches me that its first duty is towards
those who are in necessity and tribulation, who are desolate and oppressed,' said Mr. Crisparkle.
'However, as I have quite clearly satisfied myself that it is no part of my profession to make
professions, I say no more of that. But I owe it to Mr. Neville, and to Mr. Neville's sister
(and in a much lower degree to myself), to say to you that I KNOW I was in the full possession
and understanding of Mr. Neville's mind and heart at the time of this occurrence; and that,
without in the least colouring or concealing what was to be deplored in him and required to
be corrected, I feel certain that his tale is true. Feeling that certainty, I befriend him.
As long as that certainty shall last, I will befriend him.  And if any consideration could
shake me in this resolve, I should be so ashamed of myself for my meanness, that no man's good
opinion--no, nor no woman's--so gained, could compensate me for the loss of my own.'

Good fellow! manly fellow!  And he was so modest, too.  There was no more self-assertion in
the Minor Canon than in the schoolboy who had stood in the breezy playing-fields keeping a
wicket.  He was simply and staunchly true to his duty alike in the large case and in the small.
So all true souls ever are.  So every true soul ever was, ever is, and ever will be.  There
is nothing little to the really great in spirit.

'Then who do you make out did the deed?' asked Mr. Honeythunder, turning on him abruptly.

'Heaven forbid,' said Mr. Crisparkle, 'that in my desire to clear one man I should lightly
criminate another!  I accuse no one,'

'Tcha!' ejaculated Mr. Honeythunder with great disgust; for this was by no means the principle
on which the Philanthropic Brotherhood usually proceeded.  'And, sir, you are not a disinterested
witness, we must bear in mind.'

'How am I an interested one?' inquired Mr. Crisparkle, smiling innocently, at a loss to imagine.

'There was a certain stipend, sir, paid to you for your pupil, which may have warped your judgment
a bit,' said Mr. Honeythunder, coarsely.

'Perhaps I expect to retain it still?'  Mr. Crisparkle returned, enlightened; 'do you mean
that too?'

'Well, sir,' returned the professional Philanthropist, getting up and thrusting his hands down
into his trousers-pockets, 'I don't go about measuring people for caps.  If people find I have
any about me that fit 'em, they can put 'em on and wear 'em, if they like. That's their look
out:  not mine.'

Mr. Crisparkle eyed him with a just indignation, and took him to task thus:

'Mr. Honeythunder, I hoped when I came in here that I might be under no necessity of commenting
on the introduction of platform manners or platform manoeuvres among the decent forbearances
of private life.  But you have given me such a specimen of both, that I should be a fit subject
for both if I remained silent respecting them.  They are detestable.'

'They don't suit YOU, I dare say, sir.'

'They are,' repeated Mr. Crisparkle, without noticing the interruption, 'detestable.  They
violate equally the justice that should belong to Christians, and the restraints that should
belong to gentlemen.  You assume a great crime to have been committed by one whom I, acquainted
with the attendant circumstances, and having numerous reasons on my side, devoutly believe
to be innocent of it. Because I differ from you on that vital point, what is your platform
resource?  Instantly to turn upon me, charging that I have no sense of the enormity of the
crime itself, but am its aider and abettor!  So, another time--taking me as representing your
opponent in other cases--you set up a platform credulity; a moved and seconded and carried-unanimously
profession of faith in some ridiculous delusion or mischievous imposition.  I decline to believe
it, and you fall back upon your platform resource of proclaiming that I believe nothing; that
because I will not bow down to a false God of your making, I deny the true God!  Another time
you make the platform discovery that War is a calamity, and you propose to abolish it by a
string of twisted resolutions tossed into the air like the tail of a kite.  I do not admit
the discovery to be yours in the least, and I have not a grain of faith in your remedy.  Again,
your platform resource of representing me as revelling in the horrors of a battle-field like
a fiend incarnate! Another time, in another of your undiscriminating platform rushes, you would
punish the sober for the drunken.  I claim consideration for the comfort, convenience, and
refreshment of the sober; and you presently make platform proclamation that I have a depraved
desire to turn Heaven's creatures into swine and wild beasts!  In all such cases your movers,
and your seconders, and your supporters --your regular Professors of all degrees, run amuck
like so many mad Malays; habitually attributing the lowest and basest motives with the utmost
recklessness (let me call your attention to a recent instance in yourself for which you should
blush), and quoting figures which you know to be as wilfully onesided as a statement of any
complicated account that should be all Creditor side and no Debtor, or all Debtor side and
no Creditor.  Therefore it is, Mr. Honeythunder, that I consider the platform a sufficiently
bad example and a sufficiently bad school, even in public life; but hold that, carried into
private life, it becomes an unendurable nuisance.'

'These are strong words, sir!' exclaimed the Philanthropist.

'I hope so,' said Mr. Crisparkle.  'Good morning.'

He walked out of the Haven at a great rate, but soon fell into his regular brisk pace, and
soon had a smile upon his face as he went along, wondering what the china shepherdess would
have said if she had seen him pounding Mr. Honeythunder in the late little lively affair. 
For Mr. Crisparkle had just enough of harmless vanity to hope that he had hit hard, and to
glow with the belief that he had trimmed the Philanthropic Jacket pretty handsomely.

He took himself to Staple Inn, but not to P. J. T. and Mr. Grewgious.  Full many a creaking
stair he climbed before he reached some attic rooms in a corner, turned the latch of their
unbolted door, and stood beside the table of Neville Landless.

An air of retreat and solitude hung about the rooms and about their inhabitant.  He was much
worn, and so were they.  Their sloping ceilings, cumbrous rusty locks and grates, and heavy
wooden bins and beams, slowly mouldering withal, had a prisonous look, and he had the haggard
face of a prisoner.  Yet the sunlight shone in at the ugly garret-window, which had a penthouse
to itself thrust out among the tiles; and on the cracked and smoke-blackened parapet beyond,
some of the deluded sparrows of the place rheumatically hopped, like little feathered cripples
who had left their crutches in their nests; and there was a play of living leaves at hand that
changed the air, and made an imperfect sort of music in it that would have been melody in the
country.

The rooms were sparely furnished, but with good store of books. Everything expressed the abode
of a poor student.  That Mr. Crisparkle had been either chooser, lender, or donor of the books,
or that he combined the three characters, might have been easily seen in the friendly beam
of his eyes upon them as he entered.

'How goes it, Neville?'

'I am in good heart, Mr. Crisparkle, and working away.'

'I wish your eyes were not quite so large and not quite so bright,' said the Minor Canon, slowly
releasing the hand he had taken in his.

'They brighten at the sight of you,' returned Neville.  'If you were to fall away from me,
they would soon be dull enough.'

'Rally, rally!' urged the other, in a stimulating tone.  'Fight for it, Neville!'

'If I were dying, I feel as if a word from you would rally me; if my pulse had stopped, I feel
as if your touch would make it beat again,' said Neville.  'But I HAVE rallied, and am doing
famously.'

Mr. Crisparkle turned him with his face a little more towards the light.

'I want to see a ruddier touch here, Neville,' he said, indicating his own healthy cheek by
way of pattern.  'I want more sun to shine upon you.'

Neville drooped suddenly, as he replied in a lowered voice:  'I am not hardy enough for that,
yet.  I may become so, but I cannot bear it yet. Lilienthal concluded from his earlier and later trials, that the profile surface, Despite its
excellent wearing effect of free sailing flights, not up to one-twelfth of Leaf width should
expand, but only up to one-fifteenth or one-eighteenth.

In order not to be dependent on wind direction, he finally built in 1894 in Gross-Lichterfelde
specifically a cone-shaped hills of 15 meters and 70 meters Baseline, which was built up to accommodate
the flying machines. The height of this hill was later increased to 30 yards. Here he was able
to fly in all directions. Many hundreds of flights, Lilienthal has performed with great certainty,
so that he finally could consider his experiments on the glide closed. He was now an big step
further and to build a flying machine motor stride, a weight of 40 kilograms was at a power
of 2 1 / 2 horsepower. On the Stöllenberge at Rhinehart he had on 9 August again running a glide,
while the control of a horizontal tail, which was operated by head movements tried. In a second
Flight, the first of up to half the length was in a straight line forward, bowed to the specifications
of an eyewitness, the apparatus suddenly shot forward and quick as lightning from the Height
of 15 meters to the ground with it over striking. With a broken neck was Lilienthal pulled from
the rubble, and on 10 August he succumbed to his injuries.

This tragic accident in Germany from frightened for the coming period, more flight tests to do. Lilienthal
also the brother was concerned, in other work claim taken, not with the flight issue. Only
now he has taken up the study again and is about to build a flying machine.

You forgot about the fatal crash completely the enthusiastic description which Lilienthal himself
has given in 1894 by its flight tests:

"You need this sailing performance and has no power only by the gravity of the control apparatus.
Besides, there is a great pleasure, far from the mountains and hills hinauszuschweben in the country,
so for the layman as for the professionals, such a fly sports just as entertaining as instructive
and invigorating the shows. It is not only amusement Outdoor conceivable that with so much exercise
in the dexterity of the body, with so much sharpening the senses and promote the presence of mind
would be grateful as this swinging cruising through the air. We can not stop us for minutes
in the air, on routes of several hundred meters with Kurierzuggeschwindigkeit the air cut through,
yet gentle and safe us back to earth to settle.

"

Lilienthal's successor in England and America.

In England and America had in the meantime we eagerly in the pursuit of Lilienthal's Thoughts
busy. In England it was particularly the marine engineer Percy Sinclair Pilcher, already in
1894 by Lilienthal bought a flying machine, with which he conducted numerous Attempts hired.
Naturally, he came here also to the development of independent ideas,
and he designed himself, after several attempts with the American
box kite employed by Hargrave, had several of its own equipment, which
including through greater should distinguish stability as its German
role model.  'Next week,' said Mr. Crisparkle, 'you will cease
to be alone, and will have a devoted companion.'

'And yet,' returned Neville, 'this seems an uncongenial place to bring my sister to.'

'I don't think so,' said the Minor Canon.  'There is duty to be done here; and there are womanly
feeling, sense, and courage wanted here.'

'I meant,' explained Neville, 'that the surroundings are so dull and unwomanly, and that Helena
can have no suitable friend or society here.'

'You have only to remember,' said Mr. Crisparkle, 'that you are here yourself, and that she
has to draw you into the sunlight.'

They were silent for a little while, and then Mr. Crisparkle began anew.

'When we first spoke together, Neville, you told me that your sister had risen out of the disadvantages
of your past lives as superior to you as the tower of Cloisterham Cathedral is higher than
the chimneys of Minor Canon Corner.  Do you remember that?'

'Right well!'

'I was inclined to think it at the time an enthusiastic flight.  No matter what I think it
now.  What I would emphasise is, that under the head of Pride your sister is a great and opportune
example to you.'

'Under ALL heads that are included in the composition of a fine character, she is.'

'Say so; but take this one.  Your sister has learnt how to govern what is proud in her nature.
She can dominate it even when it is wounded through her sympathy with you.  No doubt she has
suffered deeply in those same streets where you suffered deeply.  No doubt her life is darkened
by the cloud that darkens yours.  But bending her pride into a grand composure that is not
haughty or aggressive, but is a sustained confidence in you and in the truth, she has won her
way through those streets until she passes along them as high in the general respect as any
one who treads them.  Every day and hour of her life since Edwin Drood's disappearance, she
has faced malignity and folly--for you--as only a brave nature well directed can.  So it will
be with her to the end.  Another and weaker kind of pride might sink broken-hearted, but never
such a pride as hers: which knows no shrinking, and can get no mastery over her.'

The pale cheek beside him flushed under the comparison, and the hint implied in it.

'I will do all I can to imitate her,' said Neville. (P. 351st)

More than ten years ago, I shared a highly intelligent
man with a dream, which he called wanted proof of the nature of telepathic
dreams recovery.

He saw an absent friend of which he had received no news for long, and made him insistent
allegations through his silence. The friend did not answer. It turned out that he had ended around
the time of this dream by suicide. Let the problem telepathy aside, that the silence in a
dream for the representation of death, seems not in doubt. Even the self-concealment, Unauffindbarsein,
as the Prince Charming three times experienced when Cinderella, in the dream is an unmistakable
symbol of death, not less the striking pallor, to which the paleness of the lead in one reading
of the Shakespearean Text recalls [7]. The transfer of these interpretations of the language
of dreams to the expression we are dealing with is the myth but we made much easier if we probably
can do, that the silence in other productions that are not dreams, as a sign of being dead has to
be interpreted.

[7] Stekel, l. c.

  I reach out here, the ninth of the Grimms' fairy tales, which has
the heading: "The Twelve Brothers"

[8]. A king and queen had twelve children, all boys. Then said The king, when the thirteenth
child is a girl have to die the boys. Pending this birth, he can make twelve coffins. The twelve
sons flee with the help of the mother in a hidden forest and swear every girl's death, should
you meet.

  [8] P. 50 of Reklamausgabe, vol.

A girl is born, grows and learns once from the mother that there were twelve brothers has had.
It decides to seek them out in the woods and find the youngest, who recognizes want to hide but
because of the oath of the brothers. The nurse says: I want to die like so if I can save my
twelve brothers.

The brothers take on a warm but they stays with them and worried them the house.

In a small garden near the house grow twelve lily flowers, which cancels the girl to give each brother
a. At this moment, the brothers turned into ravens and disappear with the house and garden. - The
Ravens are soul birds, the slaughter of twelve brothers by her sister, is represented by the pick
of the flowers again, how to input by the coffins and the disappearance of the brothers. -
The girl who is ready to turn his brothers to redeem from death experiences, as a condition now that
they are seven years silent, no may speak a word. You undergo this test by which they themselves
in danger device, ie, they die even for the brothers, as they did
before the encounter with the brothers has praised.

By complying with the silence she succeeds, finally, the salvation of the ravens.

Similarly to the myth of the 'six swans "who turned into birds by brothers the silence of the sister
redeemed, resurrected to say. The girl has the firm determination prepared to deliver her brothers,
and "if it cost her her life," and, as the wife the king in turn
their own lives at risk because they angry accusations against their
dumbness will not give up.

We would certainly not from the fairy tales can provide other evidence that the silence must
be understood as a representation of death. If we may follow this indication, so would be the
third of our sisters, between which the election takes place, one dead. You can but also be
something else, namely death itself, the death goddess. By virtue of not rare shift the properties
which will be assigned a deity to the people, their self-ascribed. At least we are such a strange
shift in the goddess of death, because in the modern conception and
presentation, which in this case anticipated the death even just one
dead.

When is the third of the sisters, the goddess of death but we know
the sisters.

There are the fate of sisters, the Fates or Norns or Fates, whose
third Atropos is, the Relentless.

  II
  

Imagine the concern, as the interpretation is found to insert in our myth, for the time being aside,
and we get to the mythologist instruction on the role and origin of the Fates [9].

[9] The following after Roscher Lexicon of the Greek and Roman mythology
under the appropriate titles.

The oldest Greek mythology, has only one Μοῖρα as the personification of the inescapable Fate (in
Homer). The development of this one to a sister club of Moira three (rarely two) deities were probably
following other gods, which are close to the Fates, the Graces and the Hours.

The hours were originally deities of the heavenly waters, the rain and dew donate the clouds from which
rain falls, and as these clouds are detected as a web, results for these goddesses of the nature
of the spinners, who then fixed to the Fates is. In the sun-drenched Mediterranean countries
it is the rain, the fertility the soil is dependent, and therefore are changing Horen vegetation deities.
Thank you them the beauty of flowers and the abundance of fruits,
provides them with a wealth of amiable and graceful moves off.

They are the divine representatives of the seasons and perhaps purchase their relationship through
this triad, when the sacred nature of the three to meet their education should not. For this
distinguished old nations first only three seasons: winter, spring and summer. The fall came
only in later Greco-Roman Times added, then the art was often as four Hours.

The relationship at the time remained the Horen, she woke up later than the times of day as First on the
times of the year at last her name declined to designate the hour
(heure, ora) down.

The Hours and the Fates, similar in character Norns of German mythology who this important time in their
names on display. It was not inevitable that the nature these deities was detected in the lower
and laws laid in the course of time; the hours have been guardians of the law of nature and
of the holy order, which with unalterable return order in nature, the same can.

This knowledge of nature reacted on the conception of human life. The nature myth changed to
Menschenmythus; from the weather gods goddesses have been fate. But this side of the Hours
was expressed only in the Fates that the necessary order in waking
life as inexorably as the Hours of the law of nature.

The inevitable force of the law, the relationship with death and destruction, the lovely to the
Figures of the hours had been avoided, it is now dominated from the Fates, as if man the seriousness
of the natural law only empfände when one's own person it is subordinate.

  The names of the three spinners have also found in the mythological
significant understanding.

The second Lachesis seems to be the "inside of lawfulness of fate Random" to means [10] - we would
say the experience - as Atropos the inevitable, death, and then left for the importance of Klotho
fatal, brought system.

[10] J. Roscher by Preller-Robert, Greek. Mythology.

And now it's time to the interpretation of the underlying motive of the choice of three sisters
return. It is with deep displeasure, we will realize how incomprehensible the considered are situations
when we use them in the found interpretation, and the contradictions to the apparent content of
the same then result.

The third of the sisters is the Goddess of Death be death itself, and in the Judgement of Paris is
the love goddess, in the tale of Apuleius a the latter comparable beauty, is in the best and wisest
merchant woman in King Lear the only faithful daughter. Can an opposition be perfect for? But
perhaps this increase is unlikely nearby. It is also very real, if our Motive is always freely
chosen between the women, and if the election this fall to death is that it chooses no one, the one precipitated
by a disaster victim.

However, contradictions of a certain type, replace it with the full contradictory opposite preparing
the analytical work of interpretation is no serious difficulty. We will not claim that opposites
often as in the expressions of the unconscious as in a dream are represented by one and the same
element. But we will remember that It motifs in mental life is that the substitution by the opposite
as so-called reaction formation , And can bring the profit of our work, especially in the detection
of such hidden Motifs are looking for. The creation of the Fates, the success of an insight that people
warns that he is also a piece of nature and therefore subject to the immutable law of death.
Against this subjugation was a little reluctant in humans, the only too keen on his Exceptional
position omitted. We know that man's fantasy activity to satisfy his unsatisfied desires from
reality used. Thus rejected because his imagination against the Moirenmythus embodied for access
and created the myth derived, in which the goddess of death by the goddess of love, and what
it is equal in human forms, is replaced. The third of the sisters is not death, it is the most
beautiful, best most desirable, most lovable of women. And that the replacement was not technically
difficult and they were prepared by an ancient ambivalence, she took along an ancient Relationship,
which still might not be long forgotten. The love goddess herself, who now took the place of
the goddess of death, was with her once been identical. Only the Greek Aphrodite was not without
quite the relationship with the underworld, although their chthonic
Roll length to other gods, to Persephone, the three-faceted Artemis-Hekate
was given.

The great mother goddesses of the Eastern peoples but all seem equally well Tools such as gutters
Vernichterinnen, goddesses of life and death of fertilization as goddesses to have been. Including
the replacement upheld a wish contrary to our location on a old identity back.

The same consideration answers the question of where the train of choice in the myth of the three Sisters
is advised. There has again been a perversion of desire.

Choice is at the point of necessity, of destiny. So supersedes man's death, he in his thinking
has acknowledged. There is no greater triumph of wish-fulfillment possible. Man choose where you
actually obey the constraint, and you choose, not the Terrible but the fairest and most desirable.

On
closer inspection, however, we note that the distortions of the original myth, not thoroughly
enough to reveal themselves not by residual symptoms. The choice between the three sisters is actually
not a free choice, for it must necessarily be the third Do not hit
where, as in Lear, all evil will arise from it.

  The fairest and best which has replaced the goddess of death, has kept
  trains that roam on the uncanny, so that we could guess what is hidden
  from them [11].
  

  [11] The Psyche of Apuleius has preserved plenty of features which its
  relationship to death urge.

  Your wedding will be prepared as a funeral, she must descend into
  the underworld and sinks afterwards in a dead-like sleep (Otto Rank).

About
  the importance of the psyche as Spring goddess and as a "bride
  of Death ", see A. Zinzow:" Psyche and Eros "(Hall 1881).
  
  In another Grimm's fairy tales (No. 179, The goose on Wells) is available
  as Cinderella at the variety of beautiful and ugly form of the third daughter,
  in which one probably a Indication of their dual nature - before and
  after the substitution - must see.

This third is from her father after a trial violation, which coincides with the King Lear almost.
It should has to specify the other as sisters, as she loved her father, finds but no other expression
of their love as the comparison with the Salt. (Friendly message from Dr. Hanns Sachs)

We have been pursuing the myth and his change and hope the secret motives of the have demonstrated
conversion to. Now we may well be interested in the use of the motif
with the poet.

We get the impression that the poet would a reduction of the subject to the original Myth front
of you so that the moving through the distortion weakened sense of the latter is felt by us.
This reduction of the distortion, the partial return the original, the poet achieved the deeper
effect he created with us.

To avoid misunderstandings I want to say, I have to contradict the intention of that the tragedy
of King Lear would have to inculcate the two doctrines, we should be on Good and not renounce
his rights during his lifetime, and one must beware of flattery to take at face value. These and
similar warnings resulting from the play, really, but it seems quite impossible, the incredible
effect of Lear from the impression that Contents of thought to explain or to assume that the
personal motives of the poet with carry forward the intention of
the teachings were exhausted.

The information that the poet us want to play for the tragedy of ingratitude, that he might feel remorse
in his own body, and the effect of the game based on the purely formal moment of artistic guise,
does not seem to understand to replace, which to us through the appreciation of the subject of Choice
between the three sisters will be opened.

Lear is an old man we have said, so the three sisters appear to be his daughters. The Lord's
money, could erfließen from which so much fertile dramatic drives will the drama continues
not recovered. Lear is not only an age, but also a dying man. The so peculiar condition of
inheritance loses all strangeness. This the Expired death but wants to do without the love of the woman,
he wants to hear how much he is loved. Now consider the shocking last scene, one of the highlights
of the Tragedy in modern drama: the corpse of Cordelia with Lear
on the stage.

Cordelia is death. If we reverse the situation, it is understandable and familiar to us. It
is the Goddess of death, which carries away the dead hero from the battle-field, like the
Valkyrie in German Mythology. Eternal wisdom in the guise of the ancient myth advises the old
man to renounce the love to choose death, to make friends with the necessity of dying.

The poet brings us closer to the old location by the choice between the three sisters of an aged and
dying can take place. The regressive process, which he so made with the transformation distorted
by wishful myth, the old sense can so far Shine through us that perhaps a two-dimensional, allegorical
interpretation of the three female characters the subject is possible. One could say that there
are three inevitable for the man Relations in marriage, which are shown here: the woman in labor,
the comrade and the corrupter. Or the three forms, which he transformed
the image of the mother in the course of life: Mother herself, the
mistress, which he selected after their own image, and finally the
Mother Earth, which it resumes. The old man snatches in vain for the
love of the woman as he received first by the mother, only the third
of the Fates, the silent Goddess of Death will take him in her arms.

The poor dear gentleman was very solitary and very sad, Mrs. Tope said, but she had no doubt
he would 'speak for her.'  Perhaps Mr. Datchery had heard something of what had occurred there
last winter?

Mr. Datchery had as confused a knowledge of the event in question, on trying to recall it,
as he well could have.  He begged Mrs. Tope's pardon when she found it incumbent on her to
correct him in every detail of his summary of the facts, but pleaded that he was merely a single
buffer getting through life upon his means as idly as he could, and that so many people were
so constantly making away with so many other people, as to render it difficult for a buffer
of an easy temper to preserve the circumstances of the several cases unmixed in his mind.

Mr. Jasper proving willing to speak for Mrs. Tope, Mr. Datchery, who had sent up his card,
was invited to ascend the postern staircase.  The Mayor was there, Mr. Tope said; but he was
not to be regarded in the light of company, as he and Mr. Jasper were great friends.

'I beg pardon,' said Mr. Datchery, making a leg with his hat under his arm, as he addressed
himself equally to both gentlemen; 'a selfish precaution on my part, and not personally interesting
to anybody but myself.  But as a buffer living on his means, and having an idea of doing it
in this lovely place in peace and quiet, for remaining span of life, I beg to ask if the Tope
family are quite respectable?'

Mr. Jasper could answer for that without the slightest hesitation.

'That is enough, sir,' said Mr. Datchery.

'My friend the Mayor,' added Mr. Jasper, presenting Mr. Datchery with a courtly motion of his
hand towards that potentate; 'whose recommendation is actually much more important to a stranger
than that of an obscure person like myself, will testify in their behalf, I am sure.'

'The Worshipful the Mayor,' said Mr. Datchery, with a low bow, 'places me under an infinite
obligation.'

'Very good people, sir, Mr. and Mrs. Tope,' said Mr. Sapsea, with condescension.  'Very good
opinions.  Very well behaved.  Very respectful.  Much approved by the Dean and Chapter.'

'The Worshipful the Mayor gives them a character,' said Mr. Datchery, 'of which they may indeed
be proud.  I would ask His Honour (if I might be permitted) whether there are not many objects
of great interest in the city which is under his beneficent sway?'

'We are, sir,' returned Mr. Sapsea, 'an ancient city, and an ecclesiastical city.  We are a
constitutional city, as it becomes such a city to be, and we uphold and maintain our glorious
privileges.'

'His Honour,' said Mr. Datchery, bowing, 'inspires me with a desire to know more of the city,
and confirms me in my inclination to end my days in the city.'

'Retired from the Army, sir?' suggested Mr. Sapsea.

'His Honour the Mayor does me too much credit,' returned Mr. Datchery.

'Navy, sir?' suggested Mr. Sapsea.

'Again,' repeated Mr. Datchery, 'His Honour the Mayor does me too much credit.'

'Diplomacy is a fine profession,' said Mr. Sapsea, as a general remark.

'There, I confess, His Honour the Mayor is too many for me,' said Mr. Datchery, with an ingenious
smile and bow; 'even a diplomatic bird must fall to such a gun.'

Now this was very soothing.  Here was a gentleman of a great, not to say a grand, address,
accustomed to rank and dignity, really setting a fine example how to behave to a Mayor.  There
was something in that third-person style of being spoken to, that Mr. Sapsea found particularly
recognisant of his merits and position.

'But I crave pardon,' said Mr. Datchery.  'His Honour the Mayor will bear with me, if for a
moment I have been deluded into occupying his time, and have forgotten the humble claims upon
my own, of my hotel, the Crozier.'

'Not at all, sir,' said Mr. Sapsea.  'I am returning home, and if you would like to take the
exterior of our Cathedral in your way, I shall be glad to point it out.'

'His Honour the Mayor,' said Mr. Datchery, 'is more than kind and gracious.'

As Mr. Datchery, when he had made his acknowledgments to Mr. Jasper, could not be induced to
go out of the room before the Worshipful, the Worshipful led the way down-stairs; Mr. Datchery
following with his hat under his arm, and his shock of white hair streaming in the evening breeze.

'Might I ask His Honour,' said Mr. Datchery, 'whether that gentleman we have just left is the
gentleman of whom I have heard in the neighbourhood as being much afflicted by the loss of
a nephew, and concentrating his life on avenging the loss?'

'That is the gentleman.  John Jasper, sir.'

'Would His Honour allow me to inquire whether there are strong suspicions of any one?'

'More than suspicions, sir,' returned Mr. Sapsea; 'all but certainties.'

'Only think now!' cried Mr. Datchery.

'But proof, sir, proof must be built up stone by stone,' said the Mayor.  'As I say, the end
crowns the work.  It is not enough that justice should be morally certain; she must be immorally
certain-- legally, that is.'

'His Honour,' said Mr. Datchery, 'reminds me of the nature of the law.  Immoral.  How true!'

'As I say, sir,' pompously went on the Mayor, 'the arm of the law is a strong arm, and a long
arm.  That is the may I put it.  A strong arm and a long arm.'

'How forcible!--And yet, again, how true!' murmured Mr. Datchery.

'And without betraying, what I call the secrets of the prison- house,' said Mr. Sapsea; 'the
secrets of the prison-house is the term I used on the bench.'

'And what other term than His Honour's would express it?' said Mr. Datchery.

'Without, I say, betraying them, I predict to you, knowing the iron will of the gentleman we
have just left (I take the bold step of calling it iron, on account of its strength), that
in this case the long arm will reach, and the strong arm will strike.--This is our Cathedral,
sir.  The best judges are pleased to admire it, and the best among our townsmen own to being
a little vain of it.'

All this time Mr. Datchery had walked with his hat under his arm, and his white hair streaming.
He had an odd momentary appearance upon him of having forgotten his hat, when Mr. Sapsea now
touched it; and he clapped his hand up to his head as if with some vague expectation of finding
another hat upon it.

'Pray be covered, sir,' entreated Mr. Sapsea; magnificently plying: 'I shall not mind it, I
assure you.'

'His Honour is very good, but I do it for coolness,' said Mr. Datchery.

Then Mr. Datchery admired the Cathedral, and Mr. Sapsea pointed it out as if he himself had
invented and built it:  there were a few details indeed of which he did not approve, but those
he glossed over, as if the workmen had made mistakes in his absence.  The Cathedral disposed
of, he led the way by the churchyard, and stopped to extol the beauty of the evening--by chance--in
the immediate vicinity of Mrs. Sapsea's epitaph.

'And by the by,' said Mr. Sapsea, appearing to descend from an elevation to remember it all
of a sudden; like Apollo shooting down from Olympus to pick up his forgotten lyre; 'THAT is
one of our small lions.  The partiality of our people has made it so, and strangers have been
seen taking a copy of it now and then.  I am not a judge of it myself, for it is a little work
of my own.  But it was troublesome to turn, sir; I may say, difficult to turn with elegance.'

Mr. Datchery became so ecstatic over Mr. Sapsea's composition, that, in spite of his intention
to end his days in Cloisterham, and therefore his probably having in reserve many opportunities
of copying it, he would have transcribed it into his pocket-book on the spot, but for the slouching
towards them of its material producer and perpetuator, Durdles, whom Mr. Sapsea hailed, not
sorry to show him a bright example of behaviour to superiors.

'Ah, Durdles!  This is the mason, sir; one of our Cloisterham worthies; everybody here knows
Durdles.  Mr. Datchery, Durdles a gentleman who is going to settle here.'

'I wouldn't do it if I was him,' growled Durdles.  'We're a heavy lot.'

'You surely don't speak for yourself, Mr. Durdles,' returned Mr. Datchery, 'any more than for
His Honour.'

'Who's His Honour?' demanded Durdles.

'His Honour the Mayor.'

'I never was brought afore him,' said Durdles, with anything but the look of a loyal subject
of the mayoralty, 'and it'll be time enough for me to Honour him when I am.  While that gentleman,
with his bundle under his arm, slowly found and counted out the money, Mr. Sapsea informed
the new settler of Durdles's habits, pursuits, abode, and reputation.  'I suppose a curious
stranger might come to see you, and your works, Mr. Durdles, at any odd time?' said Mr. Datchery
upon that.

'Any gentleman is welcome to come and see me any evening if he brings liquor for two with him,'
returned Durdles, with a penny between his teeth and certain halfpence in his hands; 'or if
he likes to make it twice two, he'll be doubly welcome.'

'I shall come.  Master Deputy, what do you owe me?'

'A job.'

'Mind you pay me honestly with the job of showing me Mr. Durdles's house when I want to go there.'

Deputy, with a piercing broadside of whistle through the whole gap in his mouth, as a receipt
in full for all arrears, vanished.

The Worshipful and the Worshipper then passed on together until they parted, with many ceremonies,
at the Worshipful's door; even then the Worshipper carried his hat under his arm, and gave
his streaming white hair to the breeze.

Said Mr. Datchery to himself that night, as he looked at his white hair in the gas-lighted
looking-glass over the coffee-room chimneypiece at the Crozier, and shook it out:  'For a single
buffer, of an easy temper, living idly on his means, I have had a rather busy afternoon!'

CHAPTER XIX--SHADOW ON THE SUN-DIAL

Again Miss Twinkleton has delivered her valedictory address, with the accompaniments of white-wine
and pound-cake, and again the young ladies have departed to their several homes.  Helena Landless
has left the Nuns' House to attend her brother's fortunes, and pretty Rosa is alone.

Cloisterham is so bright and sunny in these summer days, that the Cathedral and the monastery-ruin
show as if their strong walls were transparent.  A soft glow seems to shine from within them,
rather than upon them from without, such is their mellowness as they look forth on the hot
corn-fields and the smoking roads that distantly wind among them.  The Cloisterham gardens
blush with ripening fruit.  Time was when travel-stained pilgrims rode in clattering parties
through the city's welcome shades; time is when wayfarers, leading a gipsy life between haymaking
time and harvest, and looking as if they were just made of the dust of the earth, so very dusty
are they, lounge about on cool door-steps, trying to mend their unmendable shoes, or giving
them to the city kennels as a hopeless job, and seeking others in the bundles that they carry,
along with their yet unused sickles swathed in bands of straw.  At all the more public pumps
there is much cooling of bare feet, together with much bubbling and gurgling of drinking with
hand to spout on the part of these Bedouins; the Cloisterham police meanwhile looking askant
from their beats with suspicion, and manifest impatience that the intruders should depart from
within the civic bounds, and once more fry themselves on the simmering high-roads.

On the afternoon of such a day, when the last Cathedral service is done, and when that side
of the High Street on which the Nuns' House stands is in grateful shade, save where its quaint
old garden opens to the west between the boughs of trees, a servant informs Rosa, to her terror,
that Mr. Jasper desires to see her.

If he had chosen his time for finding her at a disadvantage, he could have done no better.
Perhaps he has chosen it.  Helena Landless is gone, Mrs. Tisher is absent on leave, Miss Twinkleton
(in her amateur state of existence) has contributed herself and a veal pie to a picnic.

'O why, why, why, did you say I was at home!' cried Rosa, helplessly.

The maid replies, that Mr. Jasper never asked the question.

That he said he knew she was at home, and begged she might be told that he asked to see her.

'What shall I do! what shall I do!' thinks Rosa, clasping her hands.

Possessed by a kind of desperation, she adds in the next breath, that she will come to Mr.
Jasper in the garden.  She shudders at the thought of being shut up with him in the house;
but many of its windows command the garden, and she can be seen as well as heard there, and
can shriek in the free air and run away.  Such is the wild idea that flutters through her mind.

She has never seen him since the fatal night, except when she was questioned before the Mayor,
and then he was present in gloomy watchfulness, as representing his lost nephew and burning
to avenge him.  She hangs her garden-hat on her arm, and goes out.  The moment she sees him
from the porch, leaning on the sun-dial, the old horrible feeling of being compelled by him,
asserts its hold upon her.  She feels that she would even then go back, but that he draws her
feet towards him.  She cannot resist, and sits down, with her head bent, on the garden-seat
beside the sun-dial.  She cannot look up at him for abhorrence, but she has perceived that
he is dressed in deep mourning.  So is she.  It was not so at first; but the lost has long
been given up, and mourned for, as dead.

He would begin by touching her hand.  She feels the intention, and draws her hand back.  His
eyes are then fixed upon her, she knows, though her own see nothing but the grass.

'I have been waiting,' he begins, 'for some time, to be summoned back to my duty near you.'

After several times forming her lips, which she knows he is closely watching, into the shape
of some other hesitating reply, and then into none, she answers:  'Duty, sir?'

'The duty of teaching you, serving you as your faithful music- master.'

'I have left off that study.'

'Not left off, I think.  Discontinued.  I was told by your guardian that you discontinued it
under the shock that we have all felt so acutely.  When will you resume?'

'Never, sir.'

'Never?  You could have done no more if you had loved my dear boy.'

'I did love him!' cried Rosa, with a flash of anger.

'Yes; but not quite--not quite in the right way, shall I say?  Not in the intended and expected
way.  Much as my dear boy was, unhappily, too self-conscious and self-satisfied (I'll draw
no parallel between him and you in that respect) to love as he should have loved, or as any
one in his place would have loved--must have loved!'

She sits in the same still attitude, but shrinking a little more.

'Then, to be told that you discontinued your study with me, was to be politely told that you
abandoned it altogether?' he suggested.

'Yes,' says Rosa, with sudden spirit, 'The politeness was my guardian's, not mine.  I told
him that I was resolved to leave off, and that I was determined to stand by my resolution.'

'And you still are?'

'I still am, sir.  And I beg not to be questioned any more about it.  At all events, I will
not answer any more; I have that in my power.'

She is so conscious of his looking at her with a gloating admiration of the touch of anger
on her, and the fire and animation it brings with it, that even as her spirit rises, it falls
again, and she struggles with a sense of shame, affront, and fear, much as she did that night
at the piano.

'I will not question you any more, since you object to it so much; I will confess--'

'I do not wish to hear you, sir,' cries Rosa, rising.

This time he does touch her with his outstretched hand.  In shrinking from it, she shrinks
into her seat again.

'We must sometimes act in opposition to our wishes,' he tells her in a low voice.  'You must
do so now, or do more harm to others than you can ever set right.'

'What harm?'

'Presently, presently.  You question ME, you see, and surely that's not fair when you forbid
me to question you.  Nevertheless, I will answer the question presently.  Dearest Rosa! Charming
Rosa!'

She starts up again.

This time he does not touch her.  But his face looks so wicked and menacing, as he stands leaning
against the sun-dial-setting, as it were, his black mark upon the very face of day--that her
flight is arrested by horror as she looks at him.

'I do not forget how many windows command a view of us,' he says, glancing towards them.  'I
will not touch you again; I will come no nearer to you than I am.  Sit down, and there will
be no mighty wonder in your music-master's leaning idly against a pedestal and speaking with
you, remembering all that has happened, and our shares in it.  Sit down, my beloved.'

She would have gone once more--was all but gone--and once more his face, darkly threatening
what would follow if she went, has stopped her.  Looking at him with the expression of the
instant frozen on her face, she sits down on the seat again.

'Rosa, even when my dear boy was affianced to you, I loved you madly; even when I thought his
happiness in having you for his wife was certain, I loved you madly; even when I strove to
make him more ardently devoted to you, I loved you madly; even when he gave me the picture
of your lovely face so carelessly traduced by him, which I feigned to hang always in my sight
for his sake, but worshipped in torment for years, I loved you madly; in the distasteful work
of the day, in the wakeful misery of the night, girded by sordid realities, or wandering through
Paradises and Hells of visions into which I rushed, carrying your image in my arms, I loved
you madly.'

If anything could make his words more hideous to her than they are in themselves, it would
be the contrast between the violence of his look and delivery, and the composure of his assumed
attitude.

'I endured it all in silence.  So long as you were his, or so long as I supposed you to be
his, I hid my secret loyally.  Did I not?'

This lie, so gross, while the mere words in which it is told are so true, is more than Rosa
can endure.  She answers with kindling indignation:  'You were as false throughout, sir, as
you are now. You were false to him, daily and hourly.  You know that you made my life unhappy
by your pursuit of me.  You know that you made me afraid to open his generous eyes, and that
you forced me, for his own trusting, good, good sake, to keep the truth from him, that you
were a bad, bad man!'

His preservation of his easy attitude rendering his working features and his convulsive hands
absolutely diabolical, he returns, with a fierce extreme of admiration:

'How beautiful you are!  You are more beautiful in anger than in repose.  I don't ask you for
your love; give me yourself and your hatred; give me yourself and that pretty rage; give me
yourself and that enchanting scorn; it will be enough for me.'

Impatient tears rise to the eyes of the trembling little beauty, and her face flames; but as
she again rises to leave him in indignation, and seek protection within the house, he stretches
out his hand towards the porch, as though he invited her to enter it.

'I told you, you rare charmer, you sweet witch, that you must stay and hear me, or do more
harm than can ever be undone.  You asked me what harm.  Stay, and I will tell you.  Go, and
I will do it!'

Again Rosa quails before his threatening face, though innocent of its meaning, and she remains.
Her panting breathing comes and goes as if it would choke her; but with a repressive hand upon
her bosom, she remains.

'I have made my confession that my love is mad.  It is so mad, that had the ties between me
and my dear lost boy been one silken thread less strong, I might have swept even him from your
side, when you favoured him.'

A film come over the eyes she raises for an instant, as though he had turned her faint.

'Even him,' he repeats.  'Yes, even him!  Rosa, you see me and you hear me.  Judge for yourself
whether any other admirer shall love you and live, whose life is in my hand.'

'What do you mean, sir?'

'I mean to show you how mad my love is.  It was hawked through the late inquiries by Mr. Crisparkle,
that young Landless had confessed to him that he was a rival of my lost boy.  That is an inexpiable
offence in my eyes.  The same Mr. Crisparkle knows under my hand that I have devoted myself
to the murderer's discovery and destruction, be he whom he might, and that I determined to
discuss the mystery with no one until I should hold the clue in which to entangle the murderer
as in a net.  I have since worked patiently to wind and wind it round him; and it is slowly
winding as I speak.'

'Your belief, if you believe in the criminality of Mr. Landless, is not Mr. Crisparkle's belief,
and he is a good man,' Rosa retorts.

'My belief is my own; and I reserve it, worshipped of my soul! Circumstances may accumulate
so strongly EVEN AGAINST AN INNOCENT MAN, that directed, sharpened, and pointed, they may slay
him.  One wanting link discovered by perseverance against a guilty man, proves his guilt, however
slight its evidence before, and he dies. Young Landless stands in deadly peril either way.'

'If you really suppose,' Rosa pleads with him, turning paler, 'that I favour Mr. Landless,
or that Mr. Landless has ever in any way addressed himself to me, you are wrong.'

He puts that from him with a slighting action of his hand and a curled lip.

'I was going to show you how madly I love you.  More madly now than ever, for I am willing
to renounce the second object that has arisen in my life to divide it with you; and henceforth
to have no object in existence but you only.  Miss Landless has become your bosom friend. 
You care for her peace of mind?'

'I love her dearly.'

'You care for her good name?'

'I have said, sir, I love her dearly.'

'I am unconsciously,' he observes with a smile, as he folds his hands upon the sun-dial and
leans his chin upon them, so that his talk would seem from the windows (faces occasionally
come and go there) to be of the airiest and playfullest--'I am unconsciously giving offence
by questioning again.  I will simply make statements, therefore, and not put questions.  You
do care for your bosom friend's good name, and you do care for her peace of mind. Then remove
the shadow of the gallows from her, dear one!'

'You dare propose to me to--'

'Darling, I dare propose to you.  Stop there.  If it be bad to idolise you, I am the worst
of men; if it be good, I am the best. My love for you is above all other love, and my truth
to you is above all other truth.  Let me have hope and favour, and I am a forsworn man for
your sake.'

Rosa puts her hands to her temples, and, pushing back her hair, looks wildly and abhorrently
at him, as though she were trying to piece together what it is his deep purpose to present
to her only in fragments.

'Reckon up nothing at this moment, angel, but the sacrifices that I lay at those dear feet,
which I could fall down among the vilest ashes and kiss, and put upon my head as a poor savage
might.  There is my fidelity to my dear boy after death.  Tread upon it!'

With an action of his hands, as though he cast down something precious.

'There is the inexpiable offence against my adoration of you. Spurn it!'

With a similar action.

'There are my labours in the cause of a just vengeance for six toiling months.  Crush them!'

With another repetition of the action.

'There is my past and my present wasted life.  There is the desolation of my heart and my soul.
There is my peace; there is my despair.  Stamp them into the dust; so that you take me, were
it even mortally hating me!'

The frightful vehemence of the man, now reaching its full height, so additionally terrifies
her as to break the spell that has held her to the spot.  She swiftly moves towards the porch;
but in an instant he is at her side, and speaking in her ear.

'Rosa, I am self-repressed again.  I am walking calmly beside you to the house.  I shall wait
for some encouragement and hope.  I shall not strike too soon.  Give me a sign that you attend
to me.'

She slightly and constrainedly moves her hand.

'Not a word of this to any one, or it will bring down the blow, as certainly as night follows
day.  Another sign that you attend to me.'

She moves her hand once more.

'I love you, love you, love you!  If you were to cast me off now-- but you will not--you would
never be rid of me.  No one should come between us.  I would pursue you to the death.'

The handmaid coming out to open the gate for him, he quietly pulls off his hat as a parting
salute, and goes away with no greater show of agitation than is visible in the effigy of Mr.
Sapsea's father opposite.  Rosa faints in going up-stairs, and is carefully carried to her
room and laid down on her bed.  A thunderstorm is coming on, the maids say, and the hot and
stifling air has overset the pretty dear:  no wonder; they have felt their own knees all of
a tremble all day long.

CHAPTER XX--A FLIGHT

Rosa no sooner came to herself than the whole of the late interview was before her.  It even
seemed as if it had pursued her into her insensibility, and she had not had a moment's unconsciousness
of it.  What to do, she was at a frightened loss to know:  the only one clear thought in her
mind was, that she must fly from this terrible man.

But where could she take refuge, and how could she go?  She had never breathed her dread of
him to any one but Helena.  If she went to Helena, and told her what had passed, that very
act might bring down the irreparable mischief that he threatened he had the power, and that
she knew he had the will, to do.  The more fearful he appeared to her excited memory and imagination,
the more alarming her responsibility appeared; seeing that a slight mistake on her part, either
in action or delay, might let his malevolence loose on Helena's brother.

Rosa's mind throughout the last six months had been stormily confused.  A half-formed, wholly
unexpressed suspicion tossed in it, now heaving itself up, and now sinking into the deep; now
gaining palpability, and now losing it.  Jasper's self-absorption in his nephew when he was
alive, and his unceasing pursuit of the inquiry how he came by his death, if he were dead,
were themes so rife in the place, that no one appeared able to suspect the possibility of foul
play at his hands.  She had asked herself the question, 'Am I so wicked in my thoughts as to
conceive a wickedness that others cannot imagine?'  Then she had considered, Did the suspicion
come of her previous recoiling from him before the fact?  And if so, was not that a proof of
its baselessness? Then she had reflected, 'What motive could he have, according to my accusation?'
She was ashamed to answer in her mind, 'The motive of gaining ME!'  And covered her face, as
if the lightest shadow of the idea of founding murder on such an idle vanity were a crime almost
as great.

She ran over in her mind again, all that he had said by the sun- dial in the garden.  He had
persisted in treating the disappearance as murder, consistently with his whole public course
since the finding of the watch and shirt-pin.  If he were afraid of the crime being traced
out, would he not rather encourage the idea of a voluntary disappearance?  He had even declared
that if the ties between him and his nephew had been less strong, he might have swept 'even
him' away from her side.  Was that like his having really done so?  He had spoken of laying
his six months' labours in the cause of a just vengeance at her feet.  Would he have done that,
with that violence of passion, if they were a pretence? Would he have ranged them with his
desolate heart and soul, his wasted life, his peace and his despair?  The very first sacrifice
that he represented himself as making for her, was his fidelity to his dear boy after death.
Surely these facts were strong against a fancy that scarcely dared to hint itself.  And yet
he was so terrible a man!  In short, the poor girl (for what could she know of the criminal
intellect, which its own professed students perpetually misread, because they persist in trying
to reconcile it with the average intellect of average men, instead of identifying it as a horrible
wonder apart) could get by no road to any other conclusion than that he WAS a terrible man,
and must be fled from.

She had been Helena's stay and comfort during the whole time.  She had constantly assured her
of her full belief in her brother's innocence, and of her sympathy with him in his misery.
But she had never seen him since the disappearance, nor had Helena ever spoken one word of
his avowal to Mr. Crisparkle in regard of Rosa, though as a part of the interest of the case
it was well known far and wide.  He was Helena's unfortunate brother, to her, and nothing more.
The assurance she had given her odious suitor was strictly true, though it would have been
better (she considered now) if she could have restrained herself from so giving it.  Afraid
of him as the bright and delicate little creature was, her spirit swelled at the thought of
his knowing it from her own lips.

But where was she to go?  Anywhere beyond his reach, was no reply to the question.  Somewhere
must be thought of.  She determined to go to her guardian, and to go immediately.  The feeling
she had imparted to Helena on the night of their first confidence, was so strong upon her--the
feeling of not being safe from him, and of the solid walls of the old convent being powerless
to keep out his ghostly following of her--that no reasoning of her own could calm her terrors.
The fascination of repulsion had been upon her so long, and now culminated so darkly, that
she felt as if he had power to bind her by a spell.  Glancing out at window, even now, as she
rose to dress, the sight of the sun-dial on which he had leaned when he declared himself, turned
her cold, and made her shrink from it, as though he had invested it with some awful quality
from his own nature.

She wrote a hurried note to Miss Twinkleton, saying that she had sudden reason for wishing
to see her guardian promptly, and had gone to him; also, entreating the good lady not to be
uneasy, for all was well with her.  She hurried a few quite useless articles into a very little
bag, left the note in a conspicuous place, and went out, softly closing the gate after her.

It was the first time she had ever been even in Cloisterham High Street alone.  But knowing
all its ways and windings very well, she hurried straight to the corner from which the omnibus
departed.  It was, at that very moment, going off.

'Stop and take me, if you please, Joe.  I am obliged to go to London.'

In less than another minute she was on her road to the railway, under Joe's protection. Joe
waited on her when she got there, put her safely into the railway carriage, and handed in the
very little bag after her, as though it were some enormous trunk, hundredweights heavy, which
she must on no account endeavour to lift.

'Can you go round when you get back, and tell Miss Twinkleton that you saw me safely off, Joe

'It shall be done, Miss.'

'With my love, please, Joe.'

'Yes, Miss--and I wouldn't mind having it myself!'  But Joe did not articulate the last clause;
only thought it.

Now that she was whirling away for London in real earnest, Rosa was at leisure to resume the
thoughts which her personal hurry had checked.  The indignant thought that his declaration
of love soiled her; that she could only be cleansed from the stain of its impurity by appealing
to the honest and true; supported her for a time against her fears, and confirmed her in her
hasty resolution.  But as the evening grew darker and darker, and the great city impended nearer
and nearer, the doubts usual in such cases began to arise. Whether this was not a wild proceeding,
after all; how Mr. Grewgious might regard it; whether she should find him at the journey's
end; how she would act if he were absent; what might become of her, alone, in a place so strange
and crowded; how if she had but waited and taken counsel first; whether, if she could now go
back, she would not do it thankfully; a multitude of such uneasy speculations disturbed her,
more and more as they accumulated.  At length the train came into London over the housetops;
and down below lay the gritty streets with their yet un-needed lamps a-glow, on a hot, light,
summer night.

'Hiram Grewgious, Esquire, Staple Inn, London.'  This was all Rosa knew of her destination;
but it was enough to send her rattling away again in a cab, through deserts of gritty streets,
where many people crowded at the corner of courts and byways to get some air, and where many
other people walked with a miserably monotonous noise of shuffling of feet on hot paving-stones,
and where all the people and all their surroundings were so gritty and so shabby!

There was music playing here and there, but it did not enliven the case.  No barrel-organ mended
the matter, and no big drum beat dull care away.  Like the chapel bells that were also going
here and there, they only seemed to evoke echoes from brick surfaces, and dust from everything.
As to the flat wind-instruments, they seemed to have cracked their hearts and souls in pining
for the country.

Her jingling conveyance stopped at last at a fast-closed gateway, which appeared to belong
to somebody who had gone to bed very early, and was much afraid of housebreakers; Rosa, discharging
her conveyance, timidly knocked at this gateway, and was let in, very little bag and all, by
a watchman.

'Does Mr. Grewgious live here?'

'Mr. Grewgious lives there, Miss,' said the watchman, pointing further in.

So Rosa went further in, and, when the clocks were striking ten, stood on P. J. T.'s doorsteps,
wondering what P. J. T. had done with his street-door.

Guided by the painted name of Mr. Grewgious, she went up-stairs and softly tapped and tapped
several times.  But no one answering, and Mr. Grewgious's door-handle yielding to her touch,
she went in, and saw her guardian sitting on a window-seat at an open window, with a shaded
lamp placed far from him on a table in a corner.

Rosa drew nearer to him in the twilight of the room.  He saw her, and he said, in an undertone:
'Good Heaven!'

Rosa fell upon his neck, with tears, and then he said, returning her embrace:

'My child, my child!  I thought you were your mother!--But what, what, what,' he added, soothingly,
'has happened?  My dear, what has brought you here?  Who has brought you here?'

'No one.  I came alone.'

'Lord bless me!' ejaculated Mr. Grewgious.  'Came alone!  Why didn't you write to me to come
and fetch you?'

'I had no time.  I took a sudden resolution.  Poor, poor Eddy!'

'Ah, poor fellow, poor fellow!'

'His uncle has made love to me.  I cannot bear it,' said Rosa, at once with a burst of tears,
and a stamp of her little foot; 'I shudder with horror of him, and I have come to you to protect
me and all of us from him, if you will?'

'I will,' cried Mr. Grewgious, with a sudden rush of amazing energy.  'Damn him! Damn him again!"'

After this most extraordinary outburst, Mr. Grewgious, quite beside himself, plunged about
the room, to all appearance undecided whether he was in a fit of loyal enthusiasm, or combative
denunciation.

He stopped and said, wiping his face:  'I beg your pardon, my dear, but you will be glad to
know I feel better.  Tell me no more just now, or I might do it again.  You must be refreshed
and cheered. What did you take last?  Yet who, knowing him only on the surface, would have
expected chivalry--and of the true sort, too; not the spurious--from Mr. Grewgious?

'Your rest too must be provided for,' he went on; 'and you shall have the prettiest chamber
in Furnival's.  Your toilet must be provided for, and you shall have everything that an unlimited
head chambermaid--by which expression I mean a head chambermaid not limited as to outlay--can
procure.  Is that a bag?' he looked hard at it; sooth to say, it required hard looking at to
be seen at all in a dimly lighted room:  'and is it your property, my dear?'

'Yes, sir.  I brought it with me.'

'It is not an extensive bag,' said Mr. Grewgious, candidly, 'though admirably calculated to
contain a day's provision for a canary- bird.  Perhaps you brought a canary-bird?'

Rosa smiled and shook her head.

'If you had, he should have been made welcome,' said Mr. Grewgious, 'and I think he would have
been pleased to be hung upon a nail outside and pit himself against our Staple sparrows; whose
execution must be admitted to be not quite equal to their intention.  Which is the case with
so many of us!  You didn't say what meal, my dear.  Have a nice jumble of all meals.'

Rosa thanked him, but said she could only take a cup of tea.  Mr. Grewgious, after several
times running out, and in again, to mention such supplementary items as marmalade, eggs, watercresses,
salted fish, and frizzled ham, ran across to Furnival's without his hat, to give his various
directions.  And soon afterwards they were realised in practice, and the board was spread.

'Lord bless my soul,' cried Mr. Grewgious, putting the lamp upon it, and taking his seat opposite
Rosa; 'what a new sensation for a poor old Angular bachelor, to be sure!'

Rosa's expressive little eyebrows asked him what he meant?

'The sensation of having a sweet young presence in the place, that whitewashes it, paints it,
papers it, decorates it with gilding, and makes it Glorious!' said Mr. Grewgious.  'Ah me!  Ah me!'

As there was something mournful in his sigh, Rosa, in touching him with her tea-cup, ventured
to touch him with her small hand too.

'Thank you, my dear,' said Mr. Grewgious.  'Ahem!  Let's talk!'

'Do you always live here, sir?' asked Rosa.

'Yes, my dear.'

'And always alone?'

'Always alone; except that I have daily company in a gentleman by the name of Bazzard, my clerk.'

'HE doesn't live here?'

'No, he goes his way, after office hours.  In fact, he is off duty here, altogether, just at
present; and a firm down-stairs, with which I have business relations, lend me a substitute.
But it would be extremely difficult to replace Mr. Bazzard.'

'He must be very fond of you,' said Rosa.

'He bears up against it with commendable fortitude if he is,' returned Mr. Grewgious, after
considering the matter.  'But I doubt if he is.  Not particularly so.  You see, he is discontented,
poor fellow.'

'Why isn't he contented?' was the natural inquiry.

'Misplaced,' said Mr. Grewgious, with great mystery.

Rosa's eyebrows resumed their inquisitive and perplexed expression.

'So misplaced,' Mr. Grewgious went on, 'that I feel constantly apologetic towards him.  And
he feels (though he doesn't mention it) that I have reason to be.'

Mr. Grewgious had by this time grown so very mysterious, that Rosa did not know how to go on.
While she was thinking about it Mr. Grewgious suddenly jerked out of himself for the second time:

'Let's talk.  We were speaking of Mr. Bazzard.  It's a secret, and moreover it is Mr. Bazzard's
secret; but the sweet presence at my table makes me so unusually expansive, that I feel I must
impart it in inviolable confidence.  What do you think Mr. Bazzard has done?'

'O dear!' cried Rosa, drawing her chair a little nearer, and her mind reverting to Jasper,
'nothing dreadful, I hope?'

'He has written a play,' said Mr. Grewgious, in a solemn whisper. 'A tragedy.'

Rosa seemed much relieved.

'And nobody,' pursued Mr. Grewgious in the same tone, 'will hear, on any account whatever,
of bringing it out.'

Rosa looked reflective, and nodded her head slowly; as who should say, 'Such things are, and
why are they!'

'Now, you know,' said Mr. Grewgious, 'I couldn't write a play.'

'Not a bad one, sir?' said Rosa, innocently, with her eyebrows again in action.

'No.  If I was under sentence of decapitation, and was about to be instantly decapitated, and
an express arrived with a pardon for the condemned convict Grewgious if he wrote a play, I
should be under the necessity of resuming the block, and begging the executioner to proceed
to extremities,--meaning,' said Mr. Grewgious, passing his hand under his chin, 'the singular
number, and this extremity.'

Rosa appeared to consider what she would do if the awkward supposititious case were hers.

'Consequently,' said Mr. Grewgious, 'Mr. Bazzard would have a sense of my inferiority to himself
under any circumstances; but when I am his master, you know, the case is greatly aggravated.'

Mr. Grewgious shook his head seriously, as if he felt the offence to be a little too much,
though of his own committing.

'How came you to be his master, sir?' asked Rosa.

'A question that naturally follows,' said Mr. Grewgious.  'Let's talk.  Mr. Bazzard's father,
being a Norfolk farmer, would have furiously laid about him with a flail, a pitch-fork, and
every agricultural implement available for assaulting purposes, on the slightest hint of his
son's having written a play.  So the son, bringing to me the father's rent (which I receive),
imparted his secret, and pointed out that he was determined to pursue his genius, and that
it would put him in peril of starvation, and that he was not formed for it.'

'For pursuing his genius, sir?'

'No, my dear,' said Mr. Grewgious, 'for starvation.  It was impossible to deny the position,
that Mr. Bazzard was not formed to be starved, and Mr. Bazzard then pointed out that it was
desirable that I should stand between him and a fate so perfectly unsuited to his formation.
In that way Mr. Bazzard became my clerk, and he feels it very much.'

'I am glad he is grateful,' said Rosa.

'I didn't quite mean that, my dear.  I mean, that he feels the degradation.  There are some
other geniuses that Mr. Bazzard has become acquainted with, who have also written tragedies,
which likewise nobody will on any account whatever hear of bringing out, and these choice spirits
dedicate their plays to one another in a highly panegyrical manner.  Mr. Bazzard has been the
subject of one of these dedications.  Now, you know, I never had a play dedicated to ME!'

Rosa looked at him as if she would have liked him to be the recipient of a thousand dedications.

'Which again, naturally, rubs against the grain of Mr. Bazzard,' said Mr. Grewgious.  'He is
very short with me sometimes, and then I feel that he is meditating, "This blockhead is my
master!  A fellow who couldn't write a tragedy on pain of death, and who will never have one
dedicated to him with the most complimentary congratulations on the high position he has taken
in the eyes of posterity!"  Very trying, very trying.  However, in giving him directions, I
reflect beforehand:  "Perhaps he may not like this," or "He might take it ill if I asked that;"
and so we get on very well.  Indeed, better than I could have expected.'

'Is the tragedy named, sir?' asked Rosa.

'Strictly between ourselves,' answered Mr. Grewgious, 'it has a dreadfully appropriate name.
It is called The Thorn of Anxiety. But Mr. Bazzard hopes--and I hope--that it will come out
at last.'

It was not hard to divine that Mr. Grewgious had related the Bazzard history thus fully, at
least quite as much for the recreation of his ward's mind from the subject that had driven
her there, as for the gratification of his own tendency to be social and communicative.

'And now, my dear,' he said at this point, 'if you are not too tired to tell me more of what
passed to-day--but only if you feel quite able--I should be glad to hear it.  I may digest
it the better, if I sleep on it to-night.'

Rosa, composed now, gave him a faithful account of the interview. Mr. Grewgious often smoothed
his head while it was in progress, and begged to be told a second time those parts which bore
on Helena and Neville.  When Rosa had finished, he sat grave, silent, and meditative for a while.

'Clearly narrated,' was his only remark at last, 'and, I hope, clearly put away here,' smoothing
his head again.  'See, my dear,' taking her to the open window, 'where they live!  The dark
windows over yonder.'

'I may go to Helena to-morrow?' asked Rosa.

'I should like to sleep on that question to-night,' he answered doubtfully.  'But let me take
you to your own rest, for you must need it.'

With that Mr. Grewgious helped her to get her hat on again, and hung upon his arm the very
little bag that was of no earthly use, and led her by the hand (with a certain stately awkwardness,
as if he were going to walk a minuet) across Holborn, and into Furnival's Inn.  At the hotel
door, he confided her to the Unlimited head chambermaid, and said that while she went up to
see her room, he would remain below, in case she should wish it exchanged for another, or should
find that there was anything she wanted.

Rosa's room was airy, clean, comfortable, almost gay.  The Unlimited had laid in everything
omitted from the very little bag (that is to say, everything she could possibly need), and
Rosa tripped down the great many stairs again, to thank her guardian for his thoughtful and
affectionate care of her.

'Not at all, my dear,' said Mr. Grewgious, infinitely gratified; 'it is I who thank you for
your charming confidence and for your charming company.  Your breakfast will be provided for
you in a neat, compact, and graceful little sitting-room (appropriate to your figure), and
I will come to you at ten o'clock in the morning. I hope you don't feel very strange indeed,
in this strange place.'

'O no, I feel so safe!'

'Yes, you may be sure that the stairs are fire-proof,' said Mr. Grewgious, 'and that any outbreak
of the devouring element would be perceived and suppressed by the watchmen.'

'I did not mean that,' Rosa replied.  'I mean, I feel so safe from him.'

'There is a stout gate of iron bars to keep him out,' said Mr. Grewgious, smiling; 'and Furnival's
is fire-proof, and specially watched and lighted, and I live over the way!'  In the stoutness
of his knight-errantry, he seemed to think the last-named protection all sufficient.  In the
same spirit he said to the gate- porter as he went out, 'If some one staying in the hotel should
wish to send across the road to me in the night, a crown will be ready for the messenger.'
In the same spirit, he walked up and down outside the iron gate for the best part of an hour,
with some solicitude; occasionally looking in between the bars, as if he had laid a dove in
a high roost in a cage of lions, and had it on his mind that she might tumble out.

CHAPTER XXI--A RECOGNITION

Nothing occurred in the night to flutter the tired dove; and the dove arose refreshed.  With
Mr. Grewgious, when the clock struck ten in the morning, came Mr. Crisparkle, who had come
at one plunge out of the river at Cloisterham.

'Miss Twinkleton was so uneasy, Miss Rosa,' he explained to her, 'and came round to Ma and
me with your note, in such a state of wonder, that, to quiet her, I volunteered on this service
by the very first train to be caught in the morning.  I wished at the time that you had come
to me; but now I think it best that you did AS you did, and came to your guardian.'

'I did think of you,' Rosa told him; 'but Minor Canon Corner was so near him--'

'I understand.  It was quite natural.'

'I have told Mr. Crisparkle,' said Mr. Grewgious, 'all that you told me last night, my dear.
Of course I should have written it to him immediately; but his coming was most opportune. 
And it was particularly kind of him to come, for he had but just gone.'

'Have you settled,' asked Rosa, appealing to them both, 'what is to be done for Helena and
her brother?'

'Why really,' said Mr. Crisparkle, 'I am in great perplexity.  If even Mr. Grewgious, whose
head is much longer than mine, and who is a whole night's cogitation in advance of me, is undecided,
what must I be!'

The Unlimited here put her head in at the door--after having rapped, and been authorised to
present herself--announcing that a gentleman wished for a word with another gentleman named
Crisparkle, if any such gentleman were there.  If no such gentleman were there, he begged pardon
for being mistaken.

'Such a gentleman is here,' said Mr. Crisparkle, 'but is engaged just now.'

'Is it a dark gentleman?' interposed Rosa, retreating on her guardian.

'No, Miss, more of a brown gentleman.'

'You are sure not with black hair?' asked Rosa, taking courage.

'Quite sure of that, Miss.  Brown hair and blue eyes.'

'Perhaps,' hinted Mr. Grewgious, with habitual caution, 'it might be well to see him, reverend
sir, if you don't object.  When one is in a difficulty or at a loss, one never knows in what
direction a way out may chance to open.  It is a business principle of mine, in such a case,
not to close up any direction, but to keep an eye on every direction that may present itself.
I could relate an anecdote in point, but that it would be premature.'

'If Miss Rosa will allow me, then?  Let the gentleman come in,' said Mr. Crisparkle.

The gentleman came in; apologised, with a frank but modest grace, for not finding Mr. Crisparkle
alone; turned to Mr. Crisparkle, and smilingly asked the unexpected question:  'Who am I?'

'You are the gentleman I saw smoking under the trees in Staple Inn, a few minutes ago.'

'True.  There I saw you.  Who else am I?'

Mr. Crisparkle concentrated his attention on a handsome face, much sunburnt; and the ghost
of some departed boy seemed to rise, gradually and dimly, in the room.

The gentleman saw a struggling recollection lighten up the Minor Canon's features, and smiling
again, said:  'What will you have for breakfast this morning?  You are out of jam.'

'Wait a moment!' cried Mr. Crisparkle, raising his right hand. 'Give me another instant!  Tartar!'

The two shook hands with the greatest heartiness, and then went the wonderful length--for Englishmen--of
laying their hands each on the other's shoulders, and looking joyfully each into the other's face.

'My old fag!' said Mr. Crisparkle.

'My old master!' said Mr. Tartar.

'You saved me from drowning!' said Mr. Crisparkle.

'After which you took to swimming, you know!' said Mr. Tartar.

'God bless my soul!' said Mr. Crisparkle.

'Amen!' said Mr. Tartar.

And then they fell to shaking hands most heartily again.

'Imagine,' exclaimed Mr. Crisparkle, with glistening eyes:  'Miss Rosa Bud and Mr. Grewgious,
imagine Mr. Tartar, when he was the smallest of juniors, diving for me, catching me, a big
heavy senior, by the hair of the head, and striking out for the shore with me like a water-giant!'

'Imagine my not letting him sink, as I was his fag!' said Mr. Tartar.  'But the truth being
that he was my best protector and friend, and did me more good than all the masters put together,
an irrational impulse seized me to pick him up, or go down with him.'

'Hem!  Permit me, sir, to have the honour,' said Mr. Grewgious, advancing with extended hand,
'for an honour I truly esteem it.  I am proud to make your acquaintance.  I hope you didn't
take cold. I hope you were not inconvenienced by swallowing too much water. How have you been
since?'

It was by no means apparent that Mr. Grewgious knew what he said, though it was very apparent
that he meant to say something highly friendly and appreciative.

If Heaven, Rosa thought, had but sent such courage and skill to her poor mother's aid!  And
he to have been so slight and young then!

'I don't wish to be complimented upon it, I thank you; but I think I have an idea,' Mr. Grewgious
announced, after taking a jog-trot or two across the room, so unexpected and unaccountable
that they all stared at him, doubtful whether he was choking or had the cramp--'I THINK I have
an idea.  I believe I have had the pleasure of seeing Mr. Tartar's name as tenant of the top
set in the house next the top set in the corner?'

'Yes, sir,' returned Mr. Tartar.  'You are right so far.'

'I am right so far,' said Mr. Grewgious.  'Tick that off;' which he did, with his right thumb
on his left.  'Might you happen to know the name of your neighbour in the top set on the other
side of the party-wall?' coming very close to Mr. Tartar, to lose nothing of his face, in his
shortness of sight.

'Landless.'

'Tick that off,' said Mr. Grewgious, taking another trot, and then coming back.  'No personal
knowledge, I suppose, sir?'

'Slight, but some.'

'Tick that off,' said Mr. Grewgious, taking another trot, and again coming back.  'Nature of
knowledge, Mr. Tartar?'

'I thought he seemed to be a young fellow in a poor way, and I asked his leave--only within
a day or so--to share my flowers up there with him; that is to say, to extend my flower-garden
to his windows.'

'Would you have the kindness to take seats?' said Mr. Grewgious. 'I HAVE an idea!'

They complied; Mr. Tartar none the less readily, for being all abroad; and Mr. Grewgious, seated
in the centre, with his hands upon his knees, thus stated his idea, with his usual manner of
having got the statement by heart.

'I cannot as yet make up my mind whether it is prudent to hold open communication under present
circumstances, and on the part of the fair member of the present company, with Mr. Neville
or Miss Helena.  I have reason to know that a local friend of ours (on whom I beg to bestow
a passing but a hearty malediction, with the kind permission of my reverend friend) sneaks
to and fro, and dodges up and down.  When not doing so himself, he may have some informant
skulking about, in the person of a watchman, porter, or such-like hanger-on of Staple.  On
the other hand, Miss Rosa very naturally wishes to see her friend Miss Helena, and it would
seem important that at least Miss Helena (if not her brother too, through her) should privately
know from Miss Rosa's lips what has occurred, and what has been threatened.  Am I agreed with
generally in the views I take?'

'I entirely coincide with them,' said Mr. Crisparkle, who had been very attentive.

'As I have no doubt I should,' added Mr. Tartar, smiling, 'if I understood them.'

'Fair and softly, sir,' said Mr. Grewgious; 'we shall fully confide in you directly, if you
will favour us with your permission.  Now, if our local friend should have any informant on
the spot, it is tolerably clear that such informant can only be set to watch the chambers in
the occupation of Mr. Neville.  He reporting, to our local friend, who comes and goes there,
our local friend would supply for himself, from his own previous knowledge, the identity of
the parties.  Nobody can be set to watch all Staple, or to concern himself with comers and
goers to other sets of chambers: unless, indeed, mine.'

'I begin to understand to what you tend,' said Mr. Crisparkle, 'and highly approve of your
caution.'

'I needn't repeat that I know nothing yet of the why and wherefore,' said Mr. Tartar; 'but
I also understand to what you tend, so let me say at once that my chambers are freely at your
disposal.'

'There!' cried Mr. Grewgious, smoothing his head triumphantly, 'now we have all got the idea.
You have it, my dear?'

'I think I have,' said Rosa, blushing a little as Mr. Tartar looked quickly towards her.

'You see, you go over to Staple with Mr. Crisparkle and Mr. Tartar,' said Mr. Grewgious; 'I
going in and out, and out and in alone, in my usual way; you go up with those gentlemen to
Mr. Tartar's rooms; you look into Mr. Tartar's flower-garden; you wait for Miss Helena's appearance
there, or you signify to Miss Helena that you are close by; and you communicate with her freely,
and no spy can be the wiser.'

'I am very much afraid I shall be--'

'Be what, my dear?' asked Mr. Grewgious, as she hesitated.  'Not frightened?'

'No, not that,' said Rosa, shyly; 'in Mr. Tartar's way.  We seem to be appropriating Mr. Tartar's
residence so very coolly.'

'I protest to you,' returned that gentleman, 'that I shall think the better of it for evermore,
if your voice sounds in it only once.'

Rosa, not quite knowing what to say about that, cast down her eyes, and turning to Mr. Grewgious,
dutifully asked if she should put her hat on?  Mr. Grewgious being of opinion that she could
not do better, she withdrew for the purpose.  Mr. Crisparkle took the opportunity of giving
Mr. Tartar a summary of the distresses of Neville and his sister; the opportunity was quite
long enough, as the hat happened to require a little extra fitting on.

Mr. Tartar gave his arm to Rosa, and Mr. Crisparkle walked, detached, in front.

'Poor, poor Eddy!' thought Rosa, as they went along.

Mr. Tartar waved his right hand as he bent his head down over Rosa, talking in an animated way.

'It was not so powerful or so sun-browned when it saved Mr. Crisparkle,' thought Rosa, glancing
at it; 'but it must have been very steady and determined even then.'

Mr. Tartar told her he had been a sailor, roving everywhere for years and years.

'When are you going to sea again?' asked Rosa.

'Never!'

Rosa wondered what the girls would say if they could see her crossing the wide street on the
sailor's arm.  And she fancied that the passers-by must think her very little and very helpless,
contrasted with the strong figure that could have caught her up and carried her out of any
danger, miles and miles without resting.

She was thinking further, that his far-seeing blue eyes looked as if they had been used to
watch danger afar off, and to watch it without flinching, drawing nearer and nearer:  when,
happening to raise her own eyes, she found that he seemed to be thinking something about THEM.

This a little confused Rosebud, and may account for her never afterwards quite knowing how
she ascended (with his help) to his garden in the air, and seemed to get into a marvellous
country that came into sudden bloom like the country on the summit of the magic bean-stalk.
May it flourish for ever!

CHAPTER XXII--A GRITTY STATE OF THINGS COMES ON

Mr. Tartar's chambers were the neatest, the cleanest, and the best- ordered chambers ever seen
under the sun, moon, and stars.  The floors were scrubbed to that extent, that you might have
supposed the London blacks emancipated for ever, and gone out of the land for good.  Every
inch of brass-work in Mr. Tartar's possession was polished and burnished, till it shone like
a brazen mirror.  No speck, nor spot, nor spatter soiled the purity of any of Mr. Tartar's
household gods, large, small, or middle-sized.  His sitting-room was like the admiral's cabin,
his bath-room was like a dairy, his sleeping-chamber, fitted all about with lockers and drawers,
was like a seedsman's shop; and his nicely-balanced cot just stirred in the midst, as if it
breathed.  Everything belonging to Mr. Tartar had quarters of its own assigned to it:  his
maps and charts had their quarters; his books had theirs; his brushes had theirs; his boots
had theirs; his clothes had theirs; his case- bottles had theirs; his telescopes and other
instruments had theirs.  Everything was readily accessible.  Shelf, bracket, locker, hook,
and drawer were equally within reach, and were equally contrived with a view to avoiding waste
of room, and providing some snug inches of stowage for something that would have exactly fitted
nowhere else.  His gleaming little service of plate was so arranged upon his sideboard as that
a slack salt-spoon would have instantly betrayed itself; his toilet implements were so arranged
upon his dressing-table as that a toothpick of slovenly deportment could have been reported
at a glance.  So with the curiosities he had brought home from various voyages.  Stuffed, dried,
repolished, or otherwise preserved, according to their kind; birds, fishes, reptiles, arms,
articles of dress, shells, seaweeds, grasses, or memorials of coral reef; each was displayed
in its especial place, and each could have been displayed in no better place.  Paint and varnish
seemed to be kept somewhere out of sight, in constant readiness to obliterate stray finger-marks
wherever any might become perceptible in Mr. Tartar's chambers.  No man-of-war was ever kept
more spick and span from careless touch.  On this bright summer day, a neat awning was rigged
over Mr. Tartar's flower-garden as only a sailor can rig it, and there was a sea- going air
upon the whole effect, so delightfully complete, that the flower-garden might have appertained
to stern-windows afloat, and the whole concern might have bowled away gallantly with all on
board, if Mr. Tartar had only clapped to his lips the speaking- trumpet that was slung in a
corner, and given hoarse orders to heave the anchor up, look alive there, men, and get all
sail upon her!

Mr. Tartar doing the honours of this gallant craft was of a piece with the rest.  When a man
rides an amiable hobby that shies at nothing and kicks nobody, it is only agreeable to find
him riding it with a humorous sense of the droll side of the creature.  When the man is a cordial
and an earnest man by nature, and withal is perfectly fresh and genuine, it may be doubted
whether he is ever seen to greater advantage than at such a time.  So Rosa would have naturally
thought (even if she hadn't been conducted over the ship with all the homage due to the First
Lady of the Admiralty, or First Fairy of the Sea), that it was charming to see and hear Mr.
Tartar half laughing at, and half rejoicing in, his various contrivances.  So Rosa would have
naturally thought, anyhow, that the sunburnt sailor showed to great advantage when, the inspection
finished, he delicately withdrew out of his admiral's cabin, beseeching her to consider herself
its Queen, and waving her free of his flower-garden with the hand that had had Mr. Crisparkle's
life in it.

'Helena!  Helena Landless!  Are you there?'

'Who speaks to me?  Not Rosa?'  Then a second handsome face appearing.

'Yes, my darling!'

'Why, how did you come here, dearest?'

'I--I don't quite know,' said Rosa with a blush; 'unless I am dreaming!'

Why with a blush?  For their two faces were alone with the other flowers.  Are blushes among
the fruits of the country of the magic bean-stalk?

'I am not dreaming,' said Helena, smiling.  'I should take more for granted if I were.  How
do we come together--or so near together--so very unexpectedly?'

Unexpectedly indeed, among the dingy gables and chimney-pots of P. J. T.'s connection, and
the flowers that had sprung from the salt sea.  But Rosa, waking, told in a hurry how they
came to be together, and all the why and wherefore of that matter.

'And Mr. Crisparkle is here,' said Rosa, in rapid conclusion; 'and, could you believe it? long
ago he saved his life!'

'I could believe any such thing of Mr. Crisparkle,' returned Helena, with a mantling face.

(More blushes in the bean-stalk country!)

'Yes, but it wasn't Crisparkle,' said Rosa, quickly putting in the correction.

'I don't understand, love.'

'It was very nice of Mr. Crisparkle to be saved,' said Rosa, 'and he couldn't have shown his
high opinion of Mr. Tartar more expressively.  But it was Mr. Tartar who saved him.'

Helena's dark eyes looked very earnestly at the bright face among the leaves, and she asked,
in a slower and more thoughtful tone:

'Is Mr. Tartar with you now, dear?'

'No; because he has given up his rooms to me--to us, I mean.  It is such a beautiful place!'

'Is it?'

'It is like the inside of the most exquisite ship that ever sailed. It is like--it is like--'

'Like a dream?' suggested Helena.

Rosa answered with a little nod, and smelled the flowers.

Helena resumed, after a short pause of silence, during which she seemed (or it was Rosa's fancy)
to compassionate somebody:  'My poor Neville is reading in his own room, the sun being so very
bright on this side just now.  I think he had better not know that you are so near.'

'O, I think so too!' cried Rosa very readily.

'I suppose,' pursued Helena, doubtfully, 'that he must know by-and- by all you have told me;
but I am not sure.  Ask Mr. Crisparkle's advice, my darling.  Ask him whether I may tell Neville
as much or as little of what you have told me as I think best.'

Rosa subsided into her state-cabin, and propounded the question. The Minor Canon was for the
free exercise of Helena's judgment.

'I thank him very much,' said Helena, when Rosa emerged again with her report.  'Ask him whether
it would be best to wait until any more maligning and pursuing of Neville on the part of this
wretch shall disclose itself, or to try to anticipate it:  I mean, so far as to find out whether
any such goes on darkly about us?'

The Minor Canon found this point so difficult to give a confident opinion on, that, after two
or three attempts and failures, he suggested a reference to Mr. Grewgious.  Helena acquiescing,
he betook himself (with a most unsuccessful assumption of lounging indifference) across the
quadrangle to P. J. T.'s, and stated it. Mr. Grewgious held decidedly to the general principle,
that if you could steal a march upon a brigand or a wild beast, you had better do it; and he
also held decidedly to the special case, that John Jasper was a brigand and a wild beast in
combination.

Thus advised, Mr. Crisparkle came back again and reported to Rosa, who in her turn reported
to Helena.  She now steadily pursuing her train of thought at her window, considered thereupon.

'We may count on Mr. Tartar's readiness to help us, Rosa?' she inquired.

O yes!  Rosa shyly thought so.  O yes, Rosa shyly believed she could almost answer for it.
But should she ask Mr. Crisparkle?  'I think your authority on the point as good as his, my
dear,' said Helena, sedately, 'and you needn't disappear again for that.'  Odd of Helena!

'You see, Neville,' Helena pursued after more reflection, 'knows no one else here:  he has
not so much as exchanged a word with any one else here.  If Mr. Tartar would call to see him
openly and often; if he would spare a minute for the purpose, frequently; if he would even
do so, almost daily; something might come of it.'

'Something might come of it, dear?' repeated Rosa, surveying her friend's beauty with a highly
perplexed face.  'Something might?'

'If Neville's movements are really watched, and if the purpose really is to isolate him from
all friends and acquaintance and wear his daily life out grain by grain (which would seem to
be the threat to you), does it not appear likely,' said Helena, 'that his enemy would in some
way communicate with Mr. Tartar to warn him off from Neville?  In which case, we might not
only know the fact, but might know from Mr. Tartar what the terms of the communication were.'

'I see!' cried Rosa.  And immediately darted into her state-cabin again.

Presently her pretty face reappeared, with a greatly heightened colour, and she said that she
had told Mr. Crisparkle, and that Mr. Crisparkle had fetched in Mr. Tartar, and that Mr. Tartar--'who
is waiting now, in case you want him,' added Rosa, with a half look back, and in not a little
confusion between the inside of the state-cabin and out--had declared his readiness to act
as she had suggested, and to enter on his task that very day.

'I thank him from my heart,' said Helena.  'Pray tell him so.'

Again not a little confused between the Flower-garden and the Cabin, Rosa dipped in with her
message, and dipped out again with more assurances from Mr. Tartar, and stood wavering in a
divided state between Helena and him, which proved that confusion is not always necessarily
awkward, but may sometimes present a very pleasant appearance.

'And now, darling,' said Helena, 'we will be mindful of the caution that has restricted us
to this interview for the present, and will part.  I hear Neville moving too.  Are you going back?'

'To Miss Twinkleton's?' asked Rosa.

'Yes.'

'O, I could never go there any more.  I couldn't indeed, after that dreadful interview!' said Rosa.

'Then where ARE you going, pretty one?'

'Now I come to think of it, I don't know,' said Rosa.  'I have settled nothing at all yet,
but my guardian will take care of me. Don't be uneasy, dear.  I shall be sure to be somewhere.'

(It did seem likely.)

'And I shall hear of my Rosebud from Mr. Tartar?' inquired Helena.

'Yes, I suppose so; from--' Rosa looked back again in a flutter, instead of supplying the name.
'But tell me one thing before we part, dearest Helena.  Tell me--that you are sure, sure, sure,
I couldn't help it.'

'Help it, love?'

'Help making him malicious and revengeful.  I couldn't hold any terms with him, could I?'

'You know how I love you, darling,' answered Helena, with indignation; 'but I would sooner
see you dead at his wicked feet.'

'That's a great comfort to me!  And you will tell your poor brother so, won't you?  And you
will give him my remembrance and my sympathy?  And you will ask him not to hate me?'

With a mournful shake of the head, as if that would be quite a superfluous entreaty, Helena
lovingly kissed her two hands to her friend, and her friend's two hands were kissed to her;
and then she saw a third hand (a brown one) appear among the flowers and leaves, and help her
friend out of sight.

The refection that Mr. Tartar produced in the Admiral's Cabin by merely touching the spring
knob of a locker and the handle of a drawer, was a dazzling enchanted repast.  Wonderful macaroons,
glittering liqueurs, magically-preserved tropical spices, and jellies of celestial tropical
fruits, displayed themselves profusely at an instant's notice.  But Mr. Tartar could not make
time stand still; and time, with his hard-hearted fleetness, strode on so fast, that Rosa was
obliged to come down from the bean-stalk country to earth and her guardian's chambers.

'And now, my dear,' said Mr. Grewgious, 'what is to be done next? To put the same thought in
another form; what is to be done with you?'

Rosa could only look apologetically sensible of being very much in her own way and in everybody
else's.  Some passing idea of living, fireproof, up a good many stairs in Furnival's Inn for
the rest of her life, was the only thing in the nature of a plan that occurred to her.

'It has come into my thoughts,' said Mr. Grewgious, 'that as the respected lady, Miss Twinkleton,
occasionally repairs to London in the recess, with the view of extending her connection, and
being available for interviews with metropolitan parents, if any-- whether, until we have time
in which to turn ourselves round, we might invite Miss Twinkleton to come and stay with you
for a month?'

'Stay where, sir?'

'Whether,' explained Mr. Grewgious, 'we might take a furnished lodging in town for a month,
and invite Miss Twinkleton to assume the charge of you in it for that period?'

'And afterwards?' hinted Rosa.

'And afterwards,' said Mr. Grewgious, 'we should be no worse off than we are now.'

'I think that might smooth the way,' assented Rosa.

'Then let us,' said Mr. Grewgious, rising, 'go and look for a furnished lodging.  Nothing could
be more acceptable to me than the sweet presence of last evening, for all the remaining evenings
of my existence; but these are not fit surroundings for a young lady. Let us set out in quest
of adventures, and look for a furnished lodging.  In the meantime, Mr. Crisparkle here, about
to return home immediately, will no doubt kindly see Miss Twinkleton, and invite that lady
to co-operate in our plan.'

Mr. Crisparkle, willingly accepting the commission, took his departure; Mr. Grewgious and his
ward set forth on their expedition.

As Mr. Grewgious's idea of looking at a furnished lodging was to get on the opposite side of
the street to a house with a suitable bill in the window, and stare at it; and then work his
way tortuously to the back of the house, and stare at that; and then not go in, but make similar
trials of another house, with the same result; their progress was but slow.  At length he bethought
himself of a widowed cousin, divers times removed, of Mr. Bazzard's, who had once solicited
his influence in the lodger world, and who lived in Southampton Street, Bloomsbury Square.
This lady's name, stated in uncompromising capitals of considerable size on a brass door-plate,
and yet not lucidly as to sex or condition, was BILLICKIN.

Personal faintness, and an overpowering personal candour, were the distinguishing features
of Mrs. Billickin's organisation.  She came languishing out of her own exclusive back parlour,
with the air of having been expressly brought-to for the purpose, from an accumulation of several
swoons.

'I hope I see you well, sir,' said Mrs. Billickin, recognising her visitor with a bend.

'Thank you, quite well.  And you, ma'am?' returned Mr. Grewgious.

'I am as well,' said Mrs. Billickin, becoming aspirational with excess of faintness, 'as I
hever ham.'

'My ward and an elderly lady,' said Mr. Grewgious, 'wish to find a genteel lodging for a month
or so.  Have you any apartments available, ma'am?'

'Mr. Grewgious,' returned Mrs. Billickin, 'I will not deceive you; far from it.  I HAVE apartments
available.'

This with the air of adding:  'Convey me to the stake, if you will; but while I live, I will
be candid.'

'And now, what apartments, ma'am?' asked Mr. Grewgious, cosily.  To tame a certain severity
apparent on the part of Mrs. Billickin.

'There is this sitting-room--which, call it what you will, it is the front parlour, Miss,'
said Mrs. Billickin, impressing Rosa into the conversation:  'the back parlour being what I
cling to and never part with; and there is two bedrooms at the top of the 'ouse with gas laid
on.  I do not tell you that your bedroom floors is firm, for firm they are not.  The gas-fitter
himself allowed, that to make a firm job, he must go right under your jistes, and it were not
worth the outlay as a yearly tenant so to do.  The piping is carried above your jistes, and
it is best that it should be made known to you.'

Mr. Grewgious and Rosa exchanged looks of some dismay, though they had not the least idea what
latent horrors this carriage of the piping might involve.  Mrs. Billickin put her hand to her
heart, as having eased it of a load.

'Well!  The roof is all right, no doubt,' said Mr. Grewgious, plucking up a little.

'Mr. Grewgious,' returned Mrs. Billickin, 'if I was to tell you, sir, that to have nothink
above you is to have a floor above you, I should put a deception upon you which I will not
do.  No, sir. Your slates WILL rattle loose at that elewation in windy weather, do your utmost,
best or worst!  I defy you, sir, be you what you may, to keep your slates tight, try how you
can.'  Here Mrs. Billickin, having been warm with Mr. Grewgious, cooled a little, not to abuse
the moral power she held over him.  'Consequent,' proceeded Mrs. Billickin, more mildly, but
still firmly in her incorruptible candour:  'consequent it would be worse than of no use for
me to trapse and travel up to the top of the 'ouse with you, and for you to say, "Mrs. Billickin,
what stain do I notice in the ceiling, for a stain I do consider it?" and for me to answer,
"I do not understand you, sir."  No, sir, I will not be so underhand.  I DO understand you
before you pint it out. The questioning is continuing, because we believe not
with some myths investigators that the myths have been read down from the sky, rather We judge
with O. Rank [3] that they were projected onto the sky after it elsewhere had arisen from a
purely human conditions. The human content but is our interest.

  [3] O. Rank, The Myth of the Birth of the Hero, p. 8 fg., Vienna and
  Leipzig 1909th

To sum up our material again in the eye. In the Estonian epic as in the narrative of the Gesta
Romanorum is the choice of a girl between three suitors, the scene of the Merchant of Venice,
"apparently to the same, but at the same occurs in this last Place something like a reversal of
the subject to: A man chooses between three - box. If we were dealing with a dream, we would
immediately think the fact that the box also Women are symbols of the essence of the woman and about
the woman herself, such as cans, tins, Boxes, baskets, etc. Let us such a symbolic substitution
when even myth to accept, then the box scene in the Merchant of Venice "really to reverse that
we anticipated. With a jolt, as is otherwise described only in fairy tales, we have our theme
the astral clothes stripped off and now you see, it treats a human motive; the choice of a man between
three women.

The same is the contents of another scene of Shakespeare in one of the most shocking his plays,
no choice of a bride this time, but with so much similarities with the secret Choice box in
the "merchant" link. The old King Lear decides to still be alive distribute kingdom among his three
daughters, each in accordance with the love they express for him. The two eldest, Goneril and
Regan, exhausted in their protestations and praises Love, the third, Cordelia, refuses his. He
had these unassuming, wordless love the third party should recognize and reward, but he fails,
fails Cordelia and divides the empire under the other two, and all his mischief. Is not that
another Scene of the choice between three women, of whom the youngest
is the best, most excellent?
In the meantime Mrs. Billickin took a seat, and delivered a kind of Index to, or Abstract of,
the general question.

'Five-and-forty shillings per week by the month certain at the time of year,' said Mrs. Billickin,
'is only reasonable to both parties. It is not Bond Street nor yet St. James's Palace; but
it is not pretended that it is.  Neither is it attempted to be denied--for why should it?--that
the Arching leads to a mews.  Mewses must exist.  Respecting attendance; two is kep', at liberal
wages. Words HAS arisen as to tradesmen, but dirty shoes on fresh hearth- stoning was attributable,
and no wish for a commission on your orders.  Coals is either BY the fire, or PER the scuttle.'
She emphasised the prepositions as marking a subtle but immense difference.  'Dogs is not viewed
with favour.  Besides litter, they gets stole, and sharing suspicions is apt to creep in, and
unpleasantness takes place.'

By this time Mr. Grewgious had his agreement-lines, and his earnest-money, ready.  'I have
signed it for the ladies, ma'am,' he said, 'and you'll have the goodness to sign it for yourself,
Christian and Surname, there, if you please.'

'Mr. Grewgious,' said Mrs. Billickin in a new burst of candour, 'no, sir!  You must excuse
the Christian name.'

Mr. Grewgious stared at her.

'The door-plate is used as a protection,' said Mrs. Billickin, 'and acts as such, and go from
it I will not.'

Mr. Grewgious stared at Rosa.

'No, Mr. Grewgious, you must excuse me.  So long as this 'ouse is known indefinite as Billickin's,
and so long as it is a doubt with the riff-raff where Billickin may be hidin', near the street-door
or down the airy, and what his weight and size, so long I feel safe.  But commit myself to
a solitary female statement, no, Miss! Nor would you for a moment wish,' said Mrs. Billickin,
with a strong sense of injury, 'to take that advantage of your sex, if you were not brought
to it by inconsiderate example.'

Rosa reddening as if she had made some most disgraceful attempt to overreach the good lady,
besought Mr. Grewgious to rest content with any signature.  And accordingly, in a baronial
way, the sign- manual BILLICKIN got appended to the document.

Details were then settled for taking possession on the next day but one, when Miss Twinkleton
might be reasonably expected; and Rosa went back to Furnival's Inn on her guardian's arm.

Behold Mr. Tartar walking up and down Furnival's Inn, checking himself when he saw them coming,
and advancing towards them!

'It occurred to me,' hinted Mr. Tartar, 'that we might go up the river, the weather being so
delicious and the tide serving.  I have a boat of my own at the Temple Stairs.'

'I have not been up the river for this many a day,' said Mr. Grewgious, tempted.

'I was never up the river,' added Rosa.

Within half an hour they were setting this matter right by going up the river.  The tide was
running with them, the afternoon was charming.  Mr. Tartar's boat was perfect.  Mr. Tartar
and Lobley (Mr. Tartar's man) pulled a pair of oars.  Mr. Tartar had a yacht, it seemed, lying
somewhere down by Greenhithe; and Mr. Tartar's man had charge of this yacht, and was detached
upon his present service.  He was a jolly-favoured man, with tawny hair and whiskers, and a
big red face.  He was the dead image of the sun in old woodcuts, his hair and whiskers answering
for rays all around him.  Resplendent in the bow of the boat, he was a shining sight, with
a man-of-war's man's shirt on--or off, according to opinion-- and his arms and breast tattooed
all sorts of patterns.  Lobley seemed to take it easily, and so did Mr. Tartar; yet their oars
bent as they pulled, and the boat bounded under them.  Mr. Tartar talked as if he were doing
nothing, to Rosa who was really doing nothing, and to Mr. Grewgious who was doing this much
that he steered all wrong; but what did that matter, when a turn of Mr. Tartar's skilful wrist,
or a mere grin of Mr. Lobley's over the bow, put all to rights!  The tide bore them on in the
gayest and most sparkling manner, until they stopped to dine in some ever- lastingly-green
garden, needing no matter-of-fact identification here; and then the tide obligingly turned--being
devoted to that party alone for that day; and as they floated idly among some osier-beds, Rosa
tried what she could do in the rowing way, and came off splendidly, being much assisted; and
Mr. Grewgious tried what he could do, and came off on his back, doubled up with an oar under
his chin, being not assisted at all.  Then there was an interval of rest under boughs (such
rest!) what time Mr. Lobley mopped, and, arranging cushions, stretchers, and the like, danced
the tight-rope the whole length of the boat like a man to whom shoes were a superstition and
stockings slavery; and then came the sweet return among delicious odours of limes in bloom,
and musical ripplings; and, all too soon, the great black city cast its shadow on the waters,
and its dark bridges spanned them as death spans life, and the everlastingly-green garden seemed
to be left for everlasting, unregainable and far away.

'Cannot people get through life without gritty stages, I wonder?' Rosa thought next day, when
the town was very gritty again, and everything had a strange and an uncomfortable appearance
of seeming to wait for something that wouldn't come.  NO.  She began to think, that, now the
Cloisterham school-days had glided past and gone, the gritty stages would begin to set in at
intervals and make themselves wearily known!

Yet what did Rosa expect?  Did she expect Miss Twinkleton?  Miss Twinkleton duly came.  Forth
from her back parlour issued the Billickin to receive Miss Twinkleton, and War was in the Billickin's
eye from that fell moment.

Miss Twinkleton brought a quantity of luggage with her, having all Rosa's as well as her own.
The Billickin took it ill that Miss Twinkleton's mind, being sorely disturbed by this luggage,
failed to take in her personal identity with that clearness of perception which was due to
its demands.  Stateliness mounted her gloomy throne upon the Billickin's brow in consequence.
And when Miss Twinkleton, in agitation taking stock of her trunks and packages, of which she
had seventeen, particularly counted in the Billickin herself as number eleven, the B. found
it necessary to repudiate.

'Things cannot too soon be put upon the footing,' said she, with a candour so demonstrative
as to be almost obtrusive, 'that the person of the 'ouse is not a box nor yet a bundle, nor
a carpet- bag.  No, I am 'ily obleeged to you, Miss Twinkleton, nor yet a beggar.'

This last disclaimer had reference to Miss Twinkleton's distractedly pressing two-and-sixpence
on her, instead of the cabman.

Thus cast off, Miss Twinkleton wildly inquired, 'which gentleman' was to be paid?  There being
two gentlemen in that position (Miss Twinkleton having arrived with two cabs), each gentleman
on being paid held forth his two-and-sixpence on the flat of his open hand, and, with a speechless
stare and a dropped jaw, displayed his wrong to heaven and earth.  Terrified by this alarming
spectacle, Miss Twinkleton placed another shilling in each hand; at the same time appealing
to the law in flurried accents, and recounting her luggage this time with the two gentlemen
in, who caused the total to come out complicated.  Meanwhile the two gentlemen, each looking
very hard at the last shilling grumblingly, as if it might become eighteen-pence if he kept
his eyes on it, descended the doorsteps, ascended their carriages, and drove away, leaving
Miss Twinkleton on a bonnet-box in tears.

The Billickin beheld this manifestation of weakness without sympathy, and gave directions for
'a young man to be got in' to wrestle with the luggage.  When that gladiator had disappeared
from the arena, peace ensued, and the new lodgers dined.

But the Billickin had somehow come to the knowledge that Miss Twinkleton kept a school.  The
leap from that knowledge to the inference that Miss Twinkleton set herself to teach HER something,
was easy.  'But you don't do it,' soliloquised the Billickin; 'I am not your pupil, whatever
she,' meaning Rosa, 'may be, poor thing!'

Miss Twinkleton, on the other hand, having changed her dress and recovered her spirits, was
animated by a bland desire to improve the occasion in all ways, and to be as serene a model
as possible. In a happy compromise between her two states of existence, she had already become,
with her workbasket before her, the equably vivacious companion with a slight judicious flavouring
of information, when the Billickin announced herself.

'I will not hide from you, ladies,' said the B., enveloped in the shawl of state, 'for it is
not my character to hide neither my motives nor my actions, that I take the liberty to look
in upon you to express a 'ope that your dinner was to your liking.  Though not Professed but
Plain, still her wages should be a sufficient object to her to stimilate to soar above mere
roast and biled.'

'We dined very well indeed,' said Rosa, 'thank you.'

'Accustomed,' said Miss Twinkleton with a gracious air, which to the jealous ears of the Billickin
seemed to add 'my good woman'-- 'accustomed to a liberal and nutritious, yet plain and salutary
diet, we have found no reason to bemoan our absence from the ancient city, and the methodical
household, in which the quiet routine of our lot has been hitherto cast.'

'I did think it well to mention to my cook,' observed the Billickin with a gush of candour,
'which I 'ope you will agree with, Miss Twinkleton, was a right precaution, that the young
lady being used to what we should consider here but poor diet, had better be brought forward
by degrees. Where's
  the fire, the so-proud This
  brain of brass melted thee!

  
  All beings Previous
  Day Tiger is yours, What you
  touch, which is red; What
  do you touched is dead. Tiger,
  Tiger, terrible!

Of the Lamb has created - he created you?

When William returned to the menagerie, he has heard loud roar. In the forecourt were large pieces
of meat cut, which were then distributed, and William feasted at the Freßbegierde of animals,
their sharp teeth and the wild sounds, which they uttering it. They threw the kitten in the lion
cage, shaking it, and thought Wilhelm already, the great beast would soon make an end his anxiety
and, under his giant paw . Choking But no! the lion, it did not seem to notice it was very safe
with him live, and if he does not trampled by chance, he did it with will not be certain. Lost kitten
really soon all fear and it licked the bloody meat, which the lion to the meal received - the
poor animal had to be very hungry, too, the lion, it had even happened, that it would eat
a little bit, and when it was saturated, it was even feel like the
tail to play the king, as had been playing with Mlle Gogo's hat ribbon.

But

when the animals were fed, cleared his throat the menagerie owners, and by using a stick to
the different cages, indicated he was in a loud voice the following report. "You see here, ladies
and gentlemen, the great lion of Bengal. He is one of the largest, you've ever seen in Europe
by 9 feet long and 5 feet high. His magnificent form his firm views, his proud response and his terrible
roar testify to its power. His immense muscular strength is betrayed by the great leaps he
makes to its to fall prey and by the beating of his tail, which he throw a steer to the ground
can. His usual response is slow and dignified, he is wont to run only if it pursues is. Behind
bushes and pipe it hides and lies in wait for the temporary game, which to drink from a nearby source
maintains, with a prodigious leap, he jumps over it ago by using his claws deep beats in its pages
and the back of his skull with his teeth breaks. If he fails to jump in his prey, he will let
them run and not trying to to pursue them, but lies down again on the lookout. If he has eaten its fill,
He lays down and sleeps two to three days until hunger wakes him again. If the lion utensil in a
flock, he kills everything that happens to him, even when saturated is. His courage is not
as great as one might think he does only smaller and weaker Animals in, and if he has sneaked
into the area of ​​human dwellings, so you chase it with some noise or with a lighted torch. By the
skin his face and especially the forehead skin moves with great ease, he can express his features
change very often and give it a terrible fury, which by the mobility of his mane, which he buck
up and can turn in all directions, is greatly increased.
  Thus, on the daily-arising question of dinner, Miss
Twinkleton would say, the three being present together:

'Perhaps, my love, you will consult with the person of the house, whether she can procure us
a lamb's fry; or, failing that, a roast fowl.'

On which the Billickin would retort (Rosa not having spoken a word), 'If you was better accustomed
to butcher's meat, Miss, you would not entertain the idea of a lamb's fry.  Firstly, because
lambs has long been sheep, and secondly, because there is such things as killing-days, and
there is not.  As to roast fowls, Miss, why you must be quite surfeited with roast fowls, letting
alone your buying, when you market for yourself, the agedest of poultry with the scaliest of
legs, quite as if you was accustomed to picking 'em out for cheapness.  Try a little inwention,
Miss.  Use yourself to 'ousekeeping a bit.  Come now, think of somethink else.'

To this encouragement, offered with the indulgent toleration of a wise and liberal expert,
Miss Twinkleton would rejoin, reddening:

'Or, my dear, you might propose to the person of the house a duck.'

'Well, Miss!' the Billickin would exclaim (still no word being spoken by Rosa), 'you do surprise
me when you speak of ducks!  Not to mention that they're getting out of season and very dear,
it really strikes to my heart to see you have a duck; for the breast, which is the only delicate
cuts in a duck, always goes in a direction which I cannot imagine where, and your own plate
comes down so miserably skin-and-bony!  Try again, Miss.  Think more of yourself, and less
of others.  A dish of sweetbreads now, or a bit of mutton.  Something at which you can get
your equal chance.'

Occasionally the game would wax very brisk indeed, and would be kept up with a smartness rendering
such an encounter as this quite tame.  But the Billickin almost invariably made by far the
higher score; and would come in with side hits of the most unexpected and extraordinary description,
when she seemed without a chance.

All this did not improve the gritty state of things in London, or the air that London had acquired
in Rosa's eyes of waiting for something that never came.  Tired of working, and conversing
with Miss Twinkleton, she suggested working and reading:  to which Miss Twinkleton readily
assented, as an admirable reader, of tried powers.  But Rosa soon made the discovery that Miss
Twinkleton didn't read fairly.  She cut the love-scenes, interpolated passages in praise of
female celibacy, and was guilty of other glaring pious frauds.  As an instance in point, take
the glowing passage:  'Ever dearest and best adored,--said Edward, clasping the dear head to
his breast, and drawing the silken hair through his caressing fingers, from which he suffered
it to fall like golden rain,--ever dearest and best adored, let us fly from the unsympathetic
world and the sterile coldness of the stony-hearted, to the rich warm Paradise of Trust and
Love.'  Miss Twinkleton's fraudulent version tamely ran thus:  'Ever engaged to me with the
consent of our parents on both sides, and the approbation of the silver-haired rector of the
district,--said Edward, respectfully raising to his lips the taper fingers so skilful in embroidery,
tambour, crochet, and other truly feminine arts,--let me call on thy papa ere to- morrow's
dawn has sunk into the west, and propose a suburban establishment, lowly it may be, but within
our means, where he will be always welcome as an evening guest, and where every arrangement
shall invest economy, and constant interchange of scholastic acquirements with the attributes
of the ministering angel to domestic bliss.'

As the days crept on and nothing happened, the neighbours began to say that the pretty girl
at Billickin's, who looked so wistfully and so much out of the gritty windows of the drawing-room,
seemed to be losing her spirits.  The pretty girl might have lost them but for the accident
of lighting on some books of voyages and sea- adventure.  As a compensation against their romance,
Miss Twinkleton, reading aloud, made the most of all the latitudes and longitudes, bearings,
winds, currents, offsets, and other statistics (which she felt to be none the less improving
because they expressed nothing whatever to her); while Rosa, listening intently, made the most
of what was nearest to her heart.  So they both did better than before.

CHAPTER XXIII--THE DAWN AGAIN

Although Mr. Crisparkle and John Jasper met daily under the Cathedral roof, nothing at any
time passed between them having reference to Edwin Drood, after the time, more than half a
year gone by, when Jasper mutely showed the Minor Canon the conclusion and the resolution entered
in his Diary.  It is not likely that they ever met, though so often, without the thoughts of
each reverting to the subject.  It is not likely that they ever met, though so often, without
a sensation on the part of each that the other was a perplexing secret to him. Jasper as the
denouncer and pursuer of Neville Landless, and Mr. Crisparkle as his consistent advocate and
protector, must at least have stood sufficiently in opposition to have speculated with keen
interest on the steadiness and next direction of the other's designs.  But neither ever broached
the theme.

False pretence not being in the Minor Canon's nature, he doubtless displayed openly that he
would at any time have revived the subject, and even desired to discuss it.  The determined
reticence of Jasper, however, was not to be so approached.  Impassive, moody, solitary, resolute,
so concentrated on one idea, and on its attendant fixed purpose, that he would share it with
no fellow- creature, he lived apart from human life.  Constantly exercising an Art which brought
him into mechanical harmony with others, and which could not have been pursued unless he and
they had been in the nicest mechanical relations and unison, it is curious to consider that
the spirit of the man was in moral accordance or interchange with nothing around him.  This
indeed he had confided to his lost nephew, before the occasion for his present inflexibility arose.

That he must know of Rosa's abrupt departure, and that he must divine its cause, was not to
be doubted.  Did he suppose that he had terrified her into silence? or did he suppose that
she had imparted to any one--to Mr. Crisparkle himself, for instance--the particulars of his
last interview with her?  Mr. Crisparkle could not determine this in his mind.  He could not
but admit, however, as a just man, that it was not, of itself, a crime to fall in love with
Rosa, any more than it was a crime to offer to set love above revenge.

The dreadful suspicion of Jasper, which Rosa was so shocked to have received into her imagination,
appeared to have no harbour in Mr. Crisparkle's.  If it ever haunted Helena's thoughts or Neville's,
neither gave it one spoken word of utterance.  Mr. Grewgious took no pains to conceal his implacable
dislike of Jasper, yet he never referred it, however distantly, to such a source.  But he was
a reticent as well as an eccentric man; and he made no mention of a certain evening when he
warmed his hands at the gatehouse fire, and looked steadily down upon a certain heap of torn
and miry clothes upon the floor.

Drowsy Cloisterham, whenever it awoke to a passing reconsideration of a story above six months
old and dismissed by the bench of magistrates, was pretty equally divided in opinion whether
John Jasper's beloved nephew had been killed by his treacherously passionate rival, or in an
open struggle; or had, for his own purposes, spirited himself away.  It then lifted up its
head, to notice that the bereaved Jasper was still ever devoted to discovery and revenge; and
then dozed off again.  This was the condition of matters, all round, at the period to which
the present history has now attained.

The Cathedral doors have closed for the night; and the Choir- master, on a short leave of absence
for two or three services, sets his face towards London.  He travels thither by the means by
which Rosa travelled, and arrives, as Rosa arrived, on a hot, dusty evening.

His travelling baggage is easily carried in his hand, and he repairs with it on foot, to a
hybrid hotel in a little square behind Aldersgate Street, near the General Post Office.  It
is hotel, boarding-house, or lodging-house, at its visitor's option. It announces itself, in
the new Railway Advertisers, as a novel enterprise, timidly beginning to spring up.  It bashfully,
almost apologetically, gives the traveller to understand that it does not expect him, on the
good old constitutional hotel plan, to order a pint of sweet blacking for his drinking, and
throw it away; but insinuates that he may have his boots blacked instead of his stomach, and
maybe also have bed, breakfast, attendance, and a porter up all night, for a certain fixed
charge.  From these and similar premises, many true Britons in the lowest spirits deduce that
the times are levelling times, except in the article of high roads, of which there will shortly
be not one in England.

He eats without appetite, and soon goes forth again.  Eastward and still eastward through the
stale streets he takes his way, until he reaches his destination:  a miserable court, specially
miserable among many such.

He ascends a broken staircase, opens a door, looks into a dark stifling room, and says:  'Are
you alone here?'

'Alone, deary; worse luck for me, and better for you,' replies a croaking voice.  'Come in,
come in, whoever you be:  I can't see you till I light a match, yet I seem to know the sound
of your speaking.  I'm acquainted with you, ain't I?'

'Light your match, and try.'

'So I will, deary, so I will; but my hand that shakes, as I can't lay it on a match all in
a moment.  And I cough so, that, put my matches where I may, I never find 'em there.  They
jump and start, as I cough and cough, like live things.  Are you off a voyage, deary?'

'No.'

'Not seafaring?'

'No.'

'Well, there's land customers, and there's water customers.  I'm a mother to both.  Different
from Jack Chinaman t'other side the court.  He ain't a father to neither.  It ain't in him.
And he ain't got the true secret of mixing, though he charges as much as me that has, and more
if he can get it.  Here's a match, and now where's the candle?  If my cough takes me, I shall
cough out twenty matches afore I gets a light.'

But she finds the candle, and lights it, before the cough comes on. It seizes her in the moment
of success, and she sits down rocking herself to and fro, and gasping at intervals:  'O, my
lungs is awful bad! my lungs is wore away to cabbage-nets!' until the fit is over.  During
its continuance she has had no power of sight, or any other power not absorbed in the struggle;
but as it leaves her, she begins to strain her eyes, and as soon as she is able to articulate,
she cries, staring:

'Why, it's you!'

'Are you so surprised to see me?'

'I thought I never should have seen you again, deary.  I thought you was dead, and gone to Heaven.'

'Why?'

'I didn't suppose you could have kept away, alive, so long, from the poor old soul with the
real receipt for mixing it.  And you are in mourning too!  Why didn't you come and have a pipe
or two of comfort?  Did they leave you money, perhaps, and so you didn't want comfort?'

' No.'

'Who was they as died, deary?'

'A relative.'

'Died of what, lovey?'

'Probably, Death.'

'We are short to-night!' cries the woman, with a propitiatory laugh.  'Short and snappish we
are!  But we're out of sorts for want of a smoke.  We've got the all-overs, haven't us, deary?
But this is the place to cure 'em in; this is the place where the all- overs is smoked off.'

'You may make ready, then,' replies the visitor, 'as soon as you like.'

He divests himself of his shoes, loosens his cravat, and lies across the foot of the squalid
bed, with his head resting on his left hand.

'Now you begin to look like yourself,' says the woman approvingly. 'Now I begin to know my
old customer indeed!  Been trying to mix for yourself this long time, poppet?'

'I have been taking it now and then in my own way.'

'Never take it your own way.  It ain't good for trade, and it ain't good for you.  Where's
my ink-bottle, and where's my thimble, and where's my little spoon?  He's going to take it
in a artful form now, my deary dear!'

Entering on her process, and beginning to bubble and blow at the faint spark enclosed in the
hollow of her hands, she speaks from time to time, in a tone of snuffling satisfaction, without
leaving off.  When he speaks, he does so without looking at her, and as if his thoughts were
already roaming away by anticipation.

'I've got a pretty many smokes ready for you, first and last, haven't I, chuckey?'

'A good many.'

'When you first come, you was quite new to it; warn't ye?'

'Yes, I was easily disposed of, then.'

'But you got on in the world, and was able by-and-by to take your pipe with the best of 'em,
warn't ye?'

'Ah; and the worst.'

'It's just ready for you.  What a sweet singer you was when you first come!  Used to drop your
head, and sing yourself off like a bird!  It's ready for you now, deary.'

He takes it from her with great care, and puts the mouthpiece to his lips.  She seats herself
beside him, ready to refill the pipe.

After inhaling a few whiffs in silence, he doubtingly accosts her with:

'Is it as potent as it used to be?'

'What do you speak of, deary?'

'What should I speak of, but what I have in my mouth?'

'It's just the same.  Always the identical same.'

'It doesn't taste so.  And it's slower.'

'You've got more used to it, you see.'

'That may be the cause, certainly.  Look here.'  He stops, becomes dreamy, and seems to forget
that he has invited her attention.  She bends over him, and speaks in his ear.

'I'm attending to you.  Says you just now, Look here.  Says I now, I'm attending to ye.  We
was talking just before of your being used to it.'

'I know all that.  I was only thinking.  Look here.  Suppose you had something in your mind;
something you were going to do.'

'Yes, deary; something I was going to do?'

'But had not quite determined to do.'

'Yes, deary.'

'Might or might not do, you understand.'

'Yes.'  With the point of a needle she stirs the contents of the bowl.

'Should you do it in your fancy, when you were lying here doing this?'

She nods her head.  'Over and over again.'

'Just like me!  I did it over and over again.  I have done it hundreds of thousands of times
in this room.'

'It's to be hoped it was pleasant to do, deary.'

'It WAS pleasant to do!'

He says this with a savage air, and a spring or start at her. Quite unmoved she retouches and
replenishes the contents of the bowl with her little spatula.  Seeing her intent upon the occupation,
he sinks into his former attitude.

'It was a journey, a difficult and dangerous journey.  That was the subject in my mind.  A
hazardous and perilous journey, over abysses where a slip would be destruction.  Look down,
look down!  You see what lies at the bottom there?'

He has darted forward to say it, and to point at the ground, as though at some imaginary object
far beneath.  The woman looks at him, as his spasmodic face approaches close to hers, and not
at his pointing.  She seems to know what the influence of her perfect quietude would be; if
so, she has not miscalculated it, for he subsides again.

'Well; I have told you I did it here hundreds of thousands of times.  What do I say?  I did
it millions and billions of times.  I did it so often, and through such vast expanses of time,
that when it was really done, it seemed not worth the doing, it was done so soon.'

'That's the journey you have been away upon,' she quietly remarks.

He glares at her as he smokes; and then, his eyes becoming filmy, answers:  'That's the journey.'

Silence ensues.  His eyes are sometimes closed and sometimes open. The woman sits beside him,
very attentive to the pipe, which is all the while at his lips.

'I'll warrant,' she observes, when he has been looking fixedly at her for some consecutive
moments, with a singular appearance in his eyes of seeming to see her a long way off, instead
of so near him: 'I'll warrant you made the journey in a many ways, when you made it so often?'

'No, always in one way.'

'Always in the same way?'

'Ay.'

'In the way in which it was really made at last?'

'Ay.'

'And always took the same pleasure in harping on it?'

'Ay.'

For the time he appears unequal to any other reply than this lazy monosyllabic assent.  Probably
to assure herself that it is not the assent of a mere automaton, she reverses the form of her
next sentence.

'Did you never get tired of it, deary, and try to call up something else for a change?'

He struggles into a sitting posture, and retorts upon her:  'What do you mean?  What did I
want?  What did I come for?'

She gently lays him back again, and before returning him the instrument he has dropped, revives
the fire in it with her own breath; then says to him, coaxingly:

'Sure, sure, sure!  Yes, yes, yes!  Now I go along with you.  You was too quick for me.  I
see now.  You come o' purpose to take the journey.  Why, I might have known it, through its
standing by you so.'

He answers first with a laugh, and then with a passionate setting of his teeth:  'Yes, I came
on purpose.  When I could not bear my life, I came to get the relief, and I got it.  It WAS
one!  It WAS one!'  This repetition with extraordinary vehemence, and the snarl of a wolf.

She observes him very cautiously, as though mentally feeling her way to her next remark.  It
is:  'There was a fellow-traveller, deary.'

'Ha, ha, ha!'  He breaks into a ringing laugh, or rather yell.

'To think,' he cries, 'how often fellow-traveller, and yet not know it!  To think how many
times he went the journey, and never saw the road!'

The woman kneels upon the floor, with her arms crossed on the coverlet of the bed, close by
him, and her chin upon them.  In this crouching attitude she watches him.  The pipe is falling
from his mouth.  She puts it back, and laying her hand upon his chest, moves him slightly from
side to side.  Upon that he speaks, as if she had spoken.

'Yes!  I always made the journey first, before the changes of colours and the great landscapes
and glittering processions began. They couldn't begin till it was off my mind.  I had no room
till then for anything else.'

Once more he lapses into silence.  Once more she lays her hand upon his chest, and moves him
slightly to and fro, as a cat might stimulate a half-slain mouse.  Once more he speaks, as
if she had spoken.

'What?  I told you so.  When it comes to be real at last, it is so short that it seems unreal
for the first time.  Hark!'

'Yes, deary.  I'm listening.'

'Time and place are both at hand.'

He is on his feet, speaking in a whisper, and as if in the dark.

'Time, place, and fellow-traveller,' she suggests, adopting his tone, and holding him softly
by the arm.

'How could the time be at hand unless the fellow-traveller was? Hush!  The journey's made.
It's over.'

'So soon?'

'That's what I said to you.  So soon.  Wait a little.  This is a vision.  I shall sleep it
off.  It has been too short and easy.  I must have a better vision than this; this is the poorest
of all. No struggle, no consciousness of peril, no entreaty--and yet I never saw THAT before.'
With a start.

'Saw what, deary?'

'Look at it!  Look what a poor, mean, miserable thing it is!  THAT must be real.  It's over.'

He has accompanied this incoherence with some wild unmeaning gestures; but they trail off into
the progressive inaction of stupor, and he lies a log upon the bed. The start of the Wright's flying machine
is called by a special device, Pylon. As already mentioned, the machine rests in the middle with
the links located there on a wooden rail. At the two Sites will be provided by one each provided
with a small wheel platform in equilibrium. The rail is usually directed precisely against the wind.
A few meters behind the top rail, exactly in the middle behind the flying machine, an 8 meter
is placed high pyramidal tower in the middle of a 700-pound weight is obtained by a rope, as it the figure
on page 62 [Note: See below] shows is related to the Aeroplan account. Before Beginning of the
approach, the weight is pulled up in the tower and then the flying machine by a pawl attached
to the rail. As soon as the screws are fired up and the Motor has developed its full speed, replaced
the leader of the catch and immediately pulls the falling weight to the airplane with allwachsender
speed forward. The Height control here has a tendency to bottom, so that finding by the wind
pressure of the apparatus is pressed against the rail. Towards the end of the rail, the end
of the rope by itself from the hook of the plane from the leader is a small thing a the stick
and the Flying machine begins to float. It is now important, in the air by the balance continued
keep pressing the left control lever, the movements, however, extremely low must, because the
pilot reacts to the slightest adjustment of the land.

Return of Wright's visit to America and Berlin.

On 5 May, Wilbur and Orville Wright have with her sister Catherine first to England go, find
them, the local balloon club a gold medal in solemn Meeting gave and appointed the two brothers
to honor members of society. Then They traveled by ship to the North German Lloyd to New York
and have been here with all In honor of the members of the American aeronaut clubs and a numerous
crowd received with great rejoicing. They went from there to their home town. When she at noon arrived
in Dayton, they received under the tolling of bells and cannon fire over a thousand people. They brought
the two brothers in a car home, drawn by four white horses; in the car her father had taken place
two favorite grandchildren. A whole Train of wagons accompanied her then home in solemn procession.
In the evening moved in the small street where is located the house of the old bishop, well over
10,000 people, old friends, neighbors and fellow citizens of the city to welcome them. The
Government had decorated all public buildings and flagged, and the three major places of Dayton
lavishly illuminated. The inhabitants were not economically flagging and illumination been, so
that Dayton was a gorgeous picture, as they had never seen before.

On 17 and 18 June, the city hosted a large celebration, with the three
golden Medals were presented to the brothers: one of the nation, a
state of Ohio and a from the city of Dayton.

But the mission of the two brothers had not met, immediately went they are to Washington, where
Orville Wright acceptance rides for the American government began. After an initial small accidents
that occur on new equipment almost always, however, in two or three trips are soon removed, the
plane showed again what he could afford, and on the 20th July Wright remained 80 minutes in the
air and put it in hour 45 Miles back. So were the conditions that had made the American government,
met and now Orville could go to Europe to Berlin to show his skills and pilots to train for
the German company "Wright flying machine," from the engine air-ship Research Association
and the aircraft company was formed to design the plane to the Brothers make Wright and other
inventors.


'Now let me see what becomes of you.  Go on!'

An observation addressed to the air, and yet it might be addressed to the passenger, so compliantly
does he go on along the High Street until he comes to an arched gateway, at which he unexpectedly
vanishes.  The poor soul quickens her pace; is swift, and close upon him entering under the
gateway; but only sees a postern staircase on one side of it, and on the other side an ancient
vaulted room, in which a large-headed, gray-haired gentleman is writing, under the odd circumstances
of sitting open to the thoroughfare and eyeing all who pass, as if he were toll- taker of the
gateway:  though the way is free.

'Halloa!' he cries in a low voice, seeing her brought to a stand- still:  'who are you looking
for?'

'There was a gentleman passed in here this minute, sir.'

'Of course there was.  What do you want with him?'

'Where do he live, deary?'

'Live?  Up that staircase.'

'Bless ye!  Whisper.  What's his name, deary?'

'Surname Jasper, Christian name John.  Mr. John Jasper.'

'Has he a calling, good gentleman?'

'Calling?  Yes.  Sings in the choir.'

'In the spire?'

'Choir.'

'What's that?'

Mr. Datchery rises from his papers, and comes to his doorstep.  'Do you know what a cathedral
is?' he asks, jocosely.

The woman nods.

'What is it?'

She looks puzzled, casting about in her mind to find a definition, when it occurs to her that
it is easier to point out the substantial object itself, massive against the dark-blue sky
and the early stars.

'That's the answer.  Go in there at seven to-morrow morning, and you may see Mr. John Jasper,
and hear him too.'

'Thank ye!  Thank ye!'

The burst of triumph in which she thanks him does not escape the notice of the single buffer
of an easy temper living idly on his means.  He glances at her; clasps his hands behind him,
as the wont of such buffers is; and lounges along the echoing Precincts at her side.

'Or,' he suggests, with a backward hitch of his head, 'you can go up at once to Mr. Jasper's
rooms there.'

The woman eyes him with a cunning smile, and shakes her head.

'O! you don't want to speak to him?'

She repeats her dumb reply, and forms with her lips a soundless 'No.'

'You can admire him at a distance three times a day, whenever you like.  It's a long way to
come for that, though.'

The woman looks up quickly.  If Mr. Datchery thinks she is to be so induced to declare where
she comes from, he is of a much easier temper than she is.  But she acquits him of such an
artful thought, as he lounges along, like the chartered bore of the city, with his uncovered
gray hair blowing about, and his purposeless hands rattling the loose money in the pockets
of his trousers.

The chink of the money has an attraction for her greedy ears. 'Wouldn't you help me to pay
for my traveller's lodging, dear gentleman, and to pay my way along?  I am a poor soul, I am
indeed, and troubled with a grievous cough.'

'You know the travellers' lodging, I perceive, and are making directly for it,' is Mr. Datchery's
bland comment, still rattling his loose money.  She stops at the gate, and says energetically:

'By this token, though you mayn't believe it, That a young gentleman gave me three-and-sixpence
as I was coughing my breath away on this very grass.  I asked him for three-and-sixpence, and
he gave it me.'

'Wasn't it a little cool to name your sum?' hints Mr. Datchery, still rattling.  'Isn't it
customary to leave the amount open? Mightn't it have had the appearance, to the young gentleman--only
the appearance--that he was rather dictated to?'

'Look'ee here, deary,' she replies, in a confidential and persuasive tone, 'I wanted the money
to lay it out on a medicine as does me good, and as I deal in.  I told the young gentleman
so, and he gave it me, and I laid it out honest to the last brass farden. I want to lay out
the same sum in the same way now; and if you'll give it me, I'll lay it out honest to the last
brass farden again, upon my soul!'

'What's the medicine?'

'I'll be honest with you beforehand, as well as after.  It's opium.'

Mr. Datchery, with a sudden change of countenance, gives her a sudden look.

'It's opium, deary.  Neither more nor less.  And it's like a human creetur so far, that you
always hear what can be said against it, but seldom what can be said in its praise.'

Mr. Datchery begins very slowly to count out the sum demanded of him.  Greedily watching his
hands, she continues to hold forth on the great example set him.

'It was last Christmas Eve, just arter dark, the once that I was here afore, when the young
gentleman gave me the three-and-six.' Mr. Datchery stops in his counting, finds he has counted
wrong, shakes his money together, and begins again.

'And the young gentleman's name,' she adds, 'was Edwin.'

Mr. Datchery drops some money, stoops to pick it up, and reddens with the exertion as he asks:

'How do you know the young gentleman's name?'

'I asked him for it, and he told it me.  I only asked him the two questions, what was his Chris'en
name, and whether he'd a sweetheart?  And he answered, Edwin, and he hadn't.'

Mr. Datchery pauses with the selected coins in his hand, rather as if he were falling into
a brown study of their value, and couldn't bear to part with them.  The woman looks at him
distrustfully, and with her anger brewing for the event of his thinking better of the gift;
but he bestows it on her as if he were abstracting his mind from the sacrifice, and with many
servile thanks she goes her way.

His object in now revisiting his lodging is merely to put on the hat which seems so superfluous
an article in his wardrobe. As soon as she was down, so it was for her, as
if nothing had happened. She asked Peter to play with her and played with-guessing. As they fought,
which name is more beautiful: Regina or Agnes. Peter claimed, Aunt Regina loud ugly, but Aunt
Agnes, it was wonderful, wonderful is this Lizzi, however, found that thus the honor of their
mother was attacked and pouted with Peter.

The next day, Peter came into the living room to read. When he saw Aunt Regina, she smiled
full of sadness and kindness, and she said that her mother was very ill. She had the door of
the Bedroom not fully closed, so she lowered her voice. But the patient
they had nevertheless heard, and they cried with a voice has gone
out, to come into Peter.

Mr. Datchery hails with him:  'Halloa, Winks!'

He acknowledges the hail with:  'Halloa, Dick!'  Their acquaintance seemingly having been established
on a familiar footing.

'But, I say,' he remonstrates, 'don't yer go a-making my name public.  I never means to plead
to no name, mind yer.  When they says to me in the Lock-up, a-going to put me down in the book,
"What's your name?" I says to them, "Find out."  Likewise when they says, "What's your religion?"
I says, "Find out."'

Which, it may be observed in passing, it would be immensely difficult for the State, however
statistical, to do.

'Asides which,' adds the boy, 'there ain't no family of Winkses.'

'I think there must be.'

'Yer lie, there ain't.  The travellers give me the name on account of my getting no settled
sleep and being knocked up all night; whereby I gets one eye roused open afore I've shut the
other. That's what Winks means.  Deputy's the nighest name to indict me by:  but yer wouldn't
catch me pleading to that, neither.'

'Deputy be it always, then.  We two are good friends; eh, Deputy?'

'Jolly good.'

'I forgave you the debt you owed me when we first became acquainted, and many of my sixpences
have come your way since; eh, Deputy?'

'Ah!  And what's more, yer ain't no friend o' Jarsper's.  What did he go a-histing me off my
legs for?'

'What indeed!  But never mind him now.  A shilling of mine is going your way to-night, Deputy.
You have just taken in a lodger I have been speaking to; an infirm woman with a cough.'

'Puffer,' assents Deputy, with a shrewd leer of recognition, and smoking an imaginary pipe,
with his head very much on one side and his eyes very much out of their places:  'Hopeum Puffer.'

'What is her name?'

''Er Royal Highness the Princess Puffer.'

'She has some other name than that; where does she live?'

'Up in London.  Among the Jacks.'

'The sailors?'

'I said so; Jacks; and Chayner men:  and hother Knifers.'

'I should like to know, through you, exactly where she lives.'

'All right.  Give us 'old.'

A shilling passes; and, in that spirit of confidence which should pervade all business transactions
between principals of honour, this piece of business is considered done.

'But here's a lark!' cries Deputy.  'Where did yer think 'Er Royal Highness is a-goin' to to-morrow
morning? 

The Panther

also belongs to the cat family.

He looks wild, has always restless eye, his Movements are violent and his voice is like that
of a rabid dog. The tongue is rough and very red, and the teeth are strong and sharp, hard and
sharp claws. The coat is Beautiful studded with black striped-like spots. The Panther is similar
in shape and size a bulldog of a good race, but with shorter legs.

In Persia and other parts of Asia, usually one to use the panther to hunt without him to tame
but can, because he never loses his wild character and you see your will operate, it requires
great effort to get him to train and even greater care to him carry and use.
  Returning to his quaint lodging, and sitting long over the supper of bread-and-
cheese and salad and ale which Mrs. Tope has left prepared for him, he still sits when his
supper is finished.  At length he rises, throws open the door of a corner cupboard, and refers
to a few uncouth chalked strokes on its inner side.

'I like,' says Mr. Datchery, 'the old tavern way of keeping scores. Illegible except to the
scorer.  The scorer not committed, the scored debited with what is against him.  Hum; ha! 
A very small score this; a very poor score!'

He sighs over the contemplation of its poverty, takes a bit of chalk from one of the cupboard
shelves, and pauses with it in his hand, uncertain what addition to make to the account.

'I think a moderate stroke,' he concludes, 'is all I am justified in scoring up;' so, suits
the action to the word, closes the cupboard, and goes to bed.

Comes Mr. Tope with his large keys, and yawningly unlocks and sets open.  Come Mrs. Tope and
attendant sweeping sprites.  Come, in due time, organist and bellows-boy, peeping down from
the red curtains in the loft, fearlessly flapping dust from books up at that remote elevation,
and whisking it from stops and pedals.  Come sundry rooks, from various quarters of the sky,
back to the great tower; who may be presumed to enjoy vibration, and to know that bell and
organ are going to give it them.  Come a very small and straggling congregation indeed:  chiefly
from Minor Canon Corner and the Precincts.  Come Mr. Crisparkle, fresh and bright; and his
ministering brethren, not quite so fresh and bright.  Come the Choir in a hurry (always in
a hurry, and struggling into their nightgowns at the last moment, like children shirking bed),
and comes John Jasper leading their line.  Last of all comes Mr. Datchery into a stall, one
of a choice empty collection very much at his service, and glancing about him for Her Royal
Highness the Princess Puffer.

The service is pretty well advanced before Mr. Datchery can discern Her Royal Highness.  But
by that time he has made her out, in the shade.  She is behind a pillar, carefully withdrawn
from the Choir- master's view, but regards him with the closest attention.  All unconscious
of her presence, he chants and sings.  She grins when he is most musically fervid, and--yes,
Mr. Datchery sees her do it!--shakes her fist at him behind the pillar's friendly shelter.

Mr. Datchery looks again, to convince himself.  Yes, again!  As ugly and withered as one of
the fantastic carvings on the under brackets of the stall seats, as malignant as the Evil One,
as hard as the big brass eagle holding the sacred books upon his wings (and, according to the
sculptor's representation of his ferocious attributes, not at all converted by them), she hugs
herself in her lean arms, and then shakes both fists at the leader of the Choir. flowed over the small window the
water flows so that they could no longer see the sky. Peter did not dare to to move more, all
in the round he had suddenly become scary, and he prayed to God help in this distress


'Well, mistress.  Good morning.  You have seen him?'

'I'VE seen him, deary; I'VE seen him!'

'And you know him?'

'Know him!  Better far than all the Reverend Parsons put together know him.'

Mrs. Tope's care has spread a very neat, clean breakfast ready for her lodger.  Before sitting
down to it, he opens his corner- cupboard door; takes his bit of chalk from its shelf; adds
one thick line to the score, extending from the top of the cupboard door to the bottom; and
then falls to with an appetite.

