MY TERMINAL MORAINE

By Frank E. Stockton

Copyright, 1892, by P. F. Collier

A man's birth is generally considered the most important event of his existence, but I truly
think that what I am about to relate was more important to me than my entrance into this world;
because, had not these things happened, I am of the opinion that my life would have been of
no value to me and my birth a misfortune.

My father, Joshua Cuthbert, died soon after I came to my majority, leaving me what he had considered
a comfortable property. This consisted of a large house and some forty acres of land, nearly
the whole of which lay upon a bluff, which upon three sides descended to a little valley, through
which ran a gentle stream. I had no brothers or sisters. My mother died when I was a boy, and
I, Walter Cuthbert, was left the sole representative of my immediate family. 

"didn't we hard enjoy her? and did the one of you love her less than yourselves? Wasn't she any
feeling of every family? Had you given her more of own way, and kept her more from dances and
favorite-makings, it might be better for yourselves and her today; excessively, i grant you,
it was still to do engineering-- for who, mavrone, could accept her
anything?

She might repent; and if she did, much one would forgive their whole-- for merry she was the
one'ardor favorite; and above all, Superior would forgive her." "i
loved her as the core of my heart," said no grandmother; "but you spoiled
her myself, and indulged her all every in the dress and everything
she wished for. But i didn't care about her shame, father, if we
had her dorsum with us.

But as time passed on the paternal home began to present an air of neglect and even dilapidation,
which occasionally attracted my attention and caused, as I incidentally discovered, a great
deal of unfavorable comment among my neighbors, who thought that I should go to work and at
least earn money enough to put the house and grounds in a condition which should not be unworthy
the memory of the good Dr. Cuthbert. In fact, I began to be looked upon as a shiftless young
man; and, now and then, I found a person old enough and bold enough to tell me so.

But, instead of endeavoring to find some suitable occupation by which I might better my condition
and improve my estate, I fell in love, which, in the opinion of my neighbors, was the very
worst thing that could have happened to me at this time. I lived in a thrifty region, and for
a man who could not support himself to think of taking upon him the support of a wife, especially
such a wife as Agnes Havelot would be, was considered more than folly and looked upon as a
crime. Everybody knew that I was in love with Miss Havelot, for I went to court her as boldly
as I went to fish or shoot. There was a good deal of talk about it, and this finally came to
the ears of Mr. Havelot, my lady's father, who, thereupon, promptly ordered her to have no
more to do with me.

The Havelot estate, which adjoined mine, was a very large one, containing hundreds and hundreds
of acres; and the Havelots were rich, rich enough to frighten any poor young man of marrying
intent. But I did not appreciate the fact that I was a poor young man. I had never troubled
my head about money as it regarded myself, and I now did not trouble my head about it as it
regarded Agnes. I loved her, I hoped she loved me, and all other considerations were thrown
aside. Mr. Havelot, however, was a man of a different way of thinking.

It was a little time before I became convinced that the decision of Agnes's father, that there
should be no communication between that dear girl and myself, really meant anything. I had
never been subjected to restrictions, and I did not understand how people of spirit could submit
to them; but I was made to understand it when Mr. Havelot, finding me wandering about his grounds,
very forcibly assured me that if I should make my appearance there again, or if he discovered
any attempt on my part to communicate with his daughter in any way, he would send her from
home. He concluded the very brief interview by stating that if I had any real regard for his
daughter's happiness I would cease attentions which would meet with the most decided disapprobation
from her only surviving parent and which would result in exiling her from home, I begged for
one more interview with Miss Havelot, and if it had been granted I should have assured her
of the state of my affections, no matter if there were reasons to suppose that I would never
see her again; but her father very sternly forbade anything of the kind, and I went away crushed.

It was a very hard case, for if I played the part of a bold lover and tried to see Agnes without
regard to the wicked orders of her father, I should certainly be discovered; and then it would
be not only myself, but the poor girl, who would suffer. So I determined that I would submit
to the Havelot decree. No matter if I never saw her again, never heard the sound of her voice,
it would be better to have her near me, to have her breathe the same air, cast up her eyes
at the same sky, listen to the same birds, that I breathed, looked at and listened to, than
to have her far away, probably in Kentucky, where I knew she had relatives, and where the grass
was blue and the sky probably green, or at any rate would appear so to her if in the least
degree she felt as I did in regard to the ties of home and the affinities between the sexes.

I now found myself in a most doleful and even desperate condition of mind. There was nothing
in the world which I could have for which I cared. Hunting, fishing, and the rambles through
woods and fields that had once been so delightful to me now became tasks which I seldom undertook.
The only occupation in which I felt the slightest interest was that of sitting in a tower of
my house with a telescope, endeavoring to see my Agnes on some portion of her father's grounds;
but, although I diligently directed my glass at the slightest stretch of lawn or bit of path
which I could discern through openings in the foliage, I never caught sight of her. I knew,
however, by means of daily questions addressed to my cook, whose daughter was a servant in
the Havelot house, that Agnes was yet at home. For that reason I remained at home. Otherwise,
I should have become a wanderer.

About a month after I had fallen into this most unhappy state an old friend came to see me.
We had been school-fellows, but he differed from me in almost every respect. He was full of
ambition and energy, and, although he was but a few years older than myself, he had already
made a name in the world. He was a geologist, earnest and enthusiastic in his studies and his
investigations. He told me frankly that the object of his visit was twofold. In the first place,
he wanted to see me, and, secondly, he wanted to make some geological examinations on my grounds,
which were situated, as he informed me, upon a terminal moraine, a formation which he had not
yet had an opportunity of practically investigating.

I had not known that I lived on a moraine, and now that I knew it, I did not care. But Tom
Burton glowed with high spirits and lively zeal as he told me how the great bluff on which
my house stood, together with the other hills and wooded terraces which stretched away from
it along the side of the valley, had been formed by the minute fragments of rock and soil,
which, during ages and ages, had been gradually pushed down from the mountains by a great glacier
which once occupied the country to the northeast of my house. "Why, Walter, my boy," he cried,
"if I had not read it all in the books I should have known for myself, as soon as I came here,
that there had once been a glacier up there, and as it gradually moved to the southwest it
had made this country what it is. Have you a stream down there in that dell which I see lies
at right angles with the valley and opens into it?"

"No," said I; "I wish there were one. The only stream we have flows along the valley and not
on my property."

Without waiting for me Tom ran down into my dell, pushed his way through the underbrush to
its upper end, and before long came back flushed with heat and enthusiasm.

"Well, sir," he said, "that dell was once the bed of a glacial stream, and you may as well
clear it out and plant corn there if you want to, for there never will be another stream flowing
through it until there is another glacier out in the country beyond. And now I want you to
let me dig about here. I want to find out what sort of stuff the glacier brought down from
the mountains. In the course of a few minutes a peasant girl entered the room, her
face beautiful father with blushes, and took her seat on the subject
as least grounds had done, and remained for some time silent, and apparently
been experiencing with agitation. Sometimes I went out and looked at him,
and gradually a little of his earnest ardor infused itself into me, and with some show of interest
I looked into the holes he had made and glanced over the mineral specimens he showed me.

"Well, Walter," said he, when he took leave of me, "I am very sorry that I did not discover
that the glacier had raked out the bed of a gold mine from the mountains up there and brought
it down to you, or at any rate, some valuable iron ore. But I am obliged to say it did not
do anything of the sort. But I can tell you one thing it brought you, and, although it is not
of any great commercial value, I should think you could make good use of it here on your place.
You have one of the finest deposits of gravel on this bluff that I have met with, and if you
were to take out a lot of it and spread it over your driveways and paths, it would make it
a great deal pleasanter for you to go about here in bad weather and would wonderfully improve
your property. Good roads always give an idea of thrift and prosperity." And then he went away
with a valise nearly full of mineral specimens which he assured me were very interesting.

My interest in geological formations died away as soon as Tom Burton had departed, but what
he said about making gravel roads giving the place an air of thrift and prosperity had its
effect upon my mind. It struck me that it would be a very good thing if people in the neighborhood,
especially the Havelots, were to perceive on my place some evidences of thrift and prosperity.
Most palpable evidences of unthrift and inpecuniosity had cut me off from Agnes, and why might
it not be that some signs of improved circumstances would remove, to a degree at least, the
restrictions which had been placed between us? This was but a very little thing upon which
to build hopes; but ever since men and women have loved they have built grand hopes upon very
slight foundations. I determined to put my roadways in order.

My efforts in this direction were really evidence of anything but thriftiness, for I could
not in the least afford to make my drives and walks resemble the smooth and beautiful roads
which wound over the Havelot estate, although to do this was my intention, and I set about
the work without loss of time. I took up this occupation with so much earnestness that it seriously
interfered with my observations from the tower.

