It was an unusually hot summer, and London was emptying fast. Every one who could afford it
was going either to the moors or to the sea, and I felt very much inclined to follow their
example. My father and mother had died when I was quite a child, and the maiden aunt who had
brought me up had just passed away, and I had mourned her death very deeply, for she had been
both father and mother to me. I felt that I needed change of scene, for I had been up for many
nights with her during her last illness, and I had had my rest broken for so long, that I found
it very difficult to sleep, and in many ways I was far from well. My aunt had left all her
little property to me, so that the means to leave London and to take a suitable holiday were
not wanting. The question was, where should I go? I was anxious to combine, if possible, pleasure
and business--that is to say, I wished to choose some quiet place where I could get bracing
air and thorough change of scene, and where I could also find studies for my new picture, which
was (at least, so I fondly dreamed) to find a place in the Academy the following spring.

It was whilst I was looking for a suitable spot that Tom Bernard, my great friend and confidant,
found one for me.

'Jack, old fellow,' he said, thrusting a torn newspaper into my hand, 'read that, old man.'

The newspaper was doubled down tightly, and a great red cross of Tom's making showed me the
part he wished me to read.

  RUNSWICK BAY.

  This charming seaside resort is not half so well known
  as it deserves to be. For the lover of the beautiful,
  for the man with an artistic eye, it possesses a charm
  which words would fail to describe. The little bay is a
  favourite resort for artists; they, at least, know how
  to appreciate its beauties. It would be well for any who
  may desire to visit this wonderfully picturesque and
  enchanting spot to secure hotel or lodging-house
  accommodation as early as possible, for the demand for
  rooms is, in August and September, far greater than the
  supply.

'Well, what do you think of it?' said Tom.

'It sounds just the thing,' I said; 'fresh air and plenty to paint.'

'Shall you go?'

'Yes, to-morrow,' I replied; 'the sooner the better.'

My bag was soon packed, my easel and painting materials were collected, and the very next morning
I was on my way into Yorkshire.

It was evening when I reached the end of my long, tiring railway journey; and when, hot and
dusty, I alighted at a village which lay about two miles from my destination. I saw no sign
of beauty as I walked from the station; the country was slightly undulating in parts, but as
a rule nothing met my gaze but a long flat stretch of field after field, covered, as the case
might be, with grass or corn. Harebells and pink campion grew on the banks, and the meadows
were full of ox-eye daisies; but I saw nothing besides that was in the least attractive, and
certainly nothing of which I could make a picture.

A family from York had come by the same train, and I had learnt from their conversation that
they had engaged lodgings for a month at Runswick Bay. The children, two boys of ten and twelve,
and a little fair-haired girl a year or two younger, were full of excitement on their arrival.

'Father, where is the sea?' they cried. 'Oh, we do want to see the sea!'

'Run on,' said their father, 'and you will soon see it.'

So we ran together, for I felt myself a child again as I watched them, and if ever I lagged
behind, one or other of them would turn round and cry, 'Come on, come on; we shall soon see it.'

Then, suddenly, we came to the edge of the high cliff, and the sea in all its beauty and loveliness
burst upon us. The small bay was shut in by rocks on either side, and on the descent of the
steep cliff was built the little fishing village. I think I have never seen a prettier place.

The children were already running down the steep, rocky path--I cannot call it a road--which
led down to the sea, and I followed more slowly behind them. It was the most curiously built
place. The fishermen's cottages were perched on the rock, wherever a ledge or standing place
could be found. Steep, narrow paths, or small flights of rock-hewn steps, led from one to another.
There was no street in the whole place; there could be none, for there were hardly two houses
which stood on the same level. To take a walk through this quaint village was to go up and
down stairs the whole time.

At last, after a long, downward scramble, I found myself on the shore, and then I looked back
at the cliff and at the irregular little town. I did not wonder that artists were to be found
there. I had counted four as I came down the hill, perched on different platforms on the rock,
and all hard at work at their easels.

Yes, it was certainly a picturesque place, and I was glad that I had come. The colouring was
charming: there was red rock in the background, here and there covered with grass, and ablaze
with flowers. Wild roses and poppies, pink-thrift and white daisies, all contributed to make
the old rock gay. But the yellow ragwort was all over; great patches of it grew even on the
margin of the sand, and its bright flowers gave the whole place a golden colouring. There seemed
to be yellow everywhere, and the red-tiled cottages, and the fishermen in their blue jerseys,
and the countless flights of steps, all appeared to be framed in the brightest gilt.

Yes, I felt sure I should find something to paint in Runswick Bay. I was not disappointed in
Tom's choice for me.

Chapter II

LITTLE JOHN

After admiring the beauties of my new surroundings for some little time, I felt that I must
begin to look for quarters. I was anxious, if possible, to find a lodging in one of the cottages,
and then, after a good night's rest, I would carefully select a good subject for my picture.
I called at several houses, where I noticed a card in the window announcing Apartments to Let,
but I met the same answer everywhere, 'Full, sir, quite full.' In one place I was offered a
bed in the kitchen, but the whole place smelt so strongly of fried herrings and of fish oil,
that I felt it would be far more pleasant to sleep on the beach than to attempt to do so in
that close and unwholesome atmosphere.

After wandering up and down for some time, I passed a house close to the village green, and
saw the children with whom I had travelled sitting at tea close to the open window. They, too,
were eating herrings, and the smell made me hungry. I began to feel that it was time I had
something to eat, and I thought my best plan would be to retrace my steps to the hotel which
I had passed on my way, and which stood at the very top of the high cliff. I turned a little
lazy when I thought of the climb, for I was tired with my journey, and, as I said before, I
was not very strong, and to drag my bag and easel up the rugged ascent would require a mighty
effort at the best of times. I noticed that wooden benches had been placed here and there on
the different platforms of the rock, for the convenience of the fishermen, and I determined
to rest for a quarter of an hour on one of them before retracing my steps up the steep hill
to the hotel. The fishermen were filling most of the seats, sitting side by side, row after
row of them, talking together, and looking down at the beach below. As I gazed up at them,
they looked to me like so many blue birds perched on the steep rock.

There was one seat in a quiet corner which I noticed was empty. I went to it, and laying my
knapsack and other belongings beside me, I sat down to rest.

But I was not long to remain alone. A minute afterwards a young fisherman, dressed like his
mates in blue jersey and oilskin cap, planted himself on the other end of the seat which I
had selected.

'Good-day, sir,' he said. 'What do you think of our bay?'

'It's a pretty place, very pretty,' I said. 'I like it well enough now, but I daresay I shall
like it better still to-morrow.'

'Better still to-morrow,' he repeated; 'well, it is the better for knowing, in my opinion,
sir, and I ought to know, if any one should, for I've lived my lifetime here.'

I turned to look at him as he spoke, and I felt at once that I had come across one of Nature's
gentlemen. He was a fine specimen of an honest English fisherman, with dark eyes and hair,
and with a sunny smile on his weather-beaten, sunburnt face. You had only to look at the man
to feel sure that you could trust him, and that, like Nathanael, there was no guile in him.

'I wonder if you could help me,' I said; 'I want to find a room here if I can, but every place
seems so full.'

'Yes, it is full, sir, in August; that's the main time here. Let me see, there's Brown's, they're
full, and Robinson's, and Wilson's, and Thomson's, all full up. There's Giles', they have a
room, I believe, but they're not over clean; maybe you're particular, sir.'

'Well,' I said, 'I do like things clean; I don't mind how rough they are if they're only clean.'

'Ah,' he said, with a twinkle in his eye; 'you wouldn't care for one pan to do all the work
of the house--to boil the dirty clothes, and the fish, and your bit of pudding for dinner,
and not overmuch cleaning of it in between.'

'No,' I said, laughing; 'I should not like that, certainly.'

'Might give the pudding a flavour of stockings, and a sauce of fish oil,' he answered. 'Well,
you're right, sir; I shouldn't like it myself. Cleanliness is next to godliness, that's my
idea. Well, then, that being as it is, I wouldn't go to Giles', not if them is your sentiments
with regard to pans, sir.'

'Then I suppose there's nothing for it but to trudge up to the hotel at the top of the hill,'
I said, with something of a groan.

'Well, sir,' he said, hesitating a little; 'me and my missus, we have a room as we lets sometimes,
but it's a poor place, sir, homely like, as ye may say. Maybe you wouldn't put up with it.'

'Would you let me see it?' I asked.

'With pleasure, sir; it's rough, but it's clean. We could promise you a clean pan, sir. My
missus she's a good one for cleaning; she's not one of them slatternly, good-for-nothing lasses.
There's heaps of them here, sir, idling away their time. She's a good girl is my Polly. Why,
if that isn't little John a-clambering up the steps to his daddy!'

He jumped up as he said this, and ran quickly down the steep flight of steps which led down
from the height on which the seat was placed, and soon returned with a little lad about two
years old in his arms.

The child was as fair as his father was dark. He was a pretty boy with light hair and blue
eyes, and was tidily dressed in a bright red cap and clean white-pinafore.

'Tea's ready, daddy,' said the boy; 'come home with little John.'

'Maybe you wouldn't object to a cup o' tea, sir,' said the father, turning to me; 'it'll hearten
you up a bit after your journey, and there's sure to be herrings. We almost lives on herrings
here, sir, and then, if you're so minded, you can look at the room after. Ye'll excuse me if
I make too bold, sir,' he added, as he gently patted little John's tiny hand, which rested
on his arm.

'I shall be only too glad to come,' I said; 'for I am very hungry, and if Polly's room is as
nice as I think it will be, it will be just the place for me.'

He walked in front of me, up and down several flights of steps, until, at some little distance
lower down the hill, he stopped before a small cottage. Sure enough there were herrings, frying
and spluttering on the fire, and there too was Polly herself, arrayed in a clean white apron,
and turning the herrings with a fork. The kitchen was very low, and the rafters seemed resting
on my head as I entered; but the window and door were both wide open, and the whole place struck
me as being wonderfully sweet and clean. A low wooden settle stood by the fire, one or two
plain deal chairs by the wall, and little John's three-legged stool was placed close to his
father's arm-chair. A small shelf above the fireplace held the family library. I noticed a
Bible, a hymn-book, a Pilgrim's Progress, and several other books, all of which had seen their
best days and were doubtless in constant use. On the walls were prints in wooden frames and
much discoloured by the turf smoke of the fire. Upon a carved old oak cupboard, which held
the clothes of the family, were arranged various rare shells and stones, curious sea-urchins
and other treasures of the sea, and in the centre, the chief ornament of the house and the
pride of Polly's heart, a ship, carved and rigged by Duncan himself, and preserved carefully
under a glass shade.

Polly gave me a hearty Yorkshire welcome, and we soon gathered about the small round table.
Duncan, with little John on his knee, asked a blessing, and Polly poured out the tea, and we
all did justice to the meal.

The more I saw of these honest people, the more I liked them and felt inclined to trust them.
When tea was over, Polly took me to see the guest-chamber in which her husband had offered
me a bed. It was a low room in the roof, containing a plain wooden bedstead, one chair, a small
wash-hand stand, and a square of looking-glass hanging on the wall. There was no other furniture,
and, indeed, there was room for no other, and the room was unadorned except by three or four
funeral cards in dismal black frames, which were hanging at different heights on the wall opposite
the bed. But the square casement window was thrown wide open, and the pure sea air filled the
little room, and the coarse white coverings of the bed were spotless, and, indeed, the whole
place looked and felt both fresh and clean.

'You'll pardon me, sir,' said Duncan, 'for asking you to look at such a poor place.'

'But I like it, Duncan,' I answered, 'and I like you, and I like your wife, and if you will
have me as a lodger, I am willing and glad to stay.'

The terms were soon agreed upon to the satisfaction of both parties, and then all things being
settled, Polly went to put little John to bed whilst I went with Duncan to see his boat.

It was an old boat, and it had been his father's before him, and it had weathered many a storm;
but it was the dream of Duncan's life to buy a new one, and he and Polly had nearly saved up
money enough for it.

'That's why me and the missus is glad to get a lodger now and again,' he said; 'it all goes
to the boat, every penny of it. We mean to call her The Little John. He's going in her the
very first voyage she takes; he is indeed, sir, for he'll be her captain one day, please God,
little John will.'

It was a calm, beautiful evening; the sea was like a sheet of glass. Hardly a ripple was breaking
on the shore. The sun was setting behind the cliff, and the fishing village would soon be in
darkness. The fishermen were leaving their cottages and were making for the shore. Already
some of the boats were launched, and the men were throwing in their nets and fishing-tackle,
and were pulling out to sea. I enjoyed watching my new friend making his preparations. His
three mates brought out the nets, and he gave his orders with a tone of command. He was the
owner and the captain of the Mary Ann, and the rest were accustomed to do his bidding.

When all were on board, Duncan himself jumped in and gave the word to push from shore. He nodded
to me and bid me good-night, and when he was a little way from shore, I saw him stand up in
the boat and wave his oil-skin cap to some one above me on the cliff.

I looked up, and saw Polly standing on the rock overhanging the shore with little John in his
white nightgown in her arms. He was waving his red cap to his father, and continued to do so
till the boat was out of sight.

Chapter III

STRANGE MUSIC

I slept well in my strange little bedroom, although I was awakened early by the sunlight streaming
in at the window. I jumped up and looked out. The sun was rising over the sea, and a flood
of golden light was streaming across it.

I dressed quickly and went out. Very few people were about, for the fishermen had not yet returned
from their night's fishing. The cliff looked even more beautiful than the night before, for
every bit of colouring stood out clear and distinct in the sunshine. 'I shall get my best effects
in the morning,' I said to myself, 'and I had better choose my subject at once, so that after
breakfast I may be able to begin without delay.'

How many steps I went up, and how many I went down, before I came to a decision, it would be
impossible to tell; but at last I found a place which seemed to me to be the very gem of the
whole village. An old disused boat stood in the foreground, and over this a large fishing net,
covered with floats, was spread to dry. Behind rose the rocks, covered with tufts of grass,
patches of gorse, tall yellow mustard plants and golden ragwort, and at the top of a steep
flight of rock-hewn steps stood a white cottage with red-tiled roof, the little garden in front
of it gay with hollyhocks and dahlias. A group of barefooted children were standing by the
gate feeding some chickens and ducks, a large dog was lying asleep at the top of the steps,
and a black cat was basking in the morning sunshine on the low garden wall. It was, to my mind,
an extremely pretty scene, and it made me long to be busy with my brush.

I hurried back to my lodging, and found Polly preparing my breakfast, whilst little John looked
on. He was sitting in his nightgown, curled up in his father's armchair. 'I'm daddy,' he called
out to me as I came in.

There was a little round table laid ready for me, and covered with a spotlessly clean cloth,
and on it was a small black teapot, and a white and gold cup and saucer, upon which I saw the
golden announcement, 'A present from Whitby,' whilst my plate was adorned with a remarkable
picture of Whitby Abbey in a thunderstorm.

There were herrings, of course, and Polly had made some hot cakes, the like of which are never
seen outside Yorkshire. These were ready buttered, and were lying wrapped in a clean cloth
in front of the fire. Polly made the tea as soon as I entered, and then retired with little
John in her arms into the bedroom, whilst I sat down with a good appetite to my breakfast.

I had not quite finished my meal when I heard a great shout from the shore. Women and children,
lads and lasses, ran past the open door, crying, 'The boats! the boats!' Polly came flying
into the kitchen, caught up little John's red cap, thrust it on his head, and ran down the
steps. I left my breakfast unfinished, and followed them.

It was a pretty sight. The fishing-boats were just nearing shore, and almost every one in the
place had turned out to meet them.

Wives, children, and visitors were gathered on the small landing place; most had dishes or
plates in their hands, for the herrings could be bought straight from the boats. The family
from York were there, and they greeted me as an old friend.

When the little village had been abundantly supplied with fish, the rest of the herrings were
packed up and sent off by train to be sold elsewhere. It was a pretty animated scene, and I
wished I had brought my sketchbook with me. I thought the arrival of the fishing boats would
make a splendid subject for a picture.

Duncan was too busy even to see me till the fish were all landed, counted, and disposed of,
but he had time for a word with little John, and as I was finishing my breakfast he came in
with the child perched on his shoulder.

'Good morning, sir,' he said; 'and how do you like our bay this morning?'

My answer fully satisfied him, and whilst he sat down to his morning meal I went out to begin
my work. It was a lovely day, and I thoroughly enjoyed the prospect before me. I found a shady
place just under the wall of a house, where my picture would be in sunlight and I and my easel
in shadow. I liked the spot I had chosen even better than I had done before breakfast, and
I was soon hard at work.

I had sketched in my picture, and was beginning to paint, when I became conscious of the sound
of voices just over my head, and I soon became equally conscious that they were talking about me.

'It's just like it,' said one voice. 'Look--do look. There's Betty Green's cottage, and Minnie
the cat, and the seat, and the old boat.'

'Let me see, Marjorie,' said another voice; 'is it the old one with white hair and a long,
long beard?'

'No, it's quite a young one; his hair's black, and he hasn't got a beard at all.'

'Let me look. Yes, I can see him. I like him much better than the old one; hasn't he got nice
red cheeks?'

'Hush! he'll hear,' said the other voice. 'You naughty boy! I believe he did hear; I saw him
laugh.'

I jumped up at this, and looked up, but I could see nothing but a garden wall and a thick bushy
tree, which was growing just inside it.

'Hullo, who's there?' I shouted.

But there was dead silence; and as no one appeared, and nothing more happened, I sat down and
went on with my picture.

Many people passed by as I was painting, and tried to look at what I was doing. Some glanced
out of the corners of their eyes as they walked on; others paused behind me and silently watched
me; a few made remarks to one another about my picture; one or two offered suggestions, thought
I should have had a better view lower down the hill, or hoped that I would make the colouring
vivid enough. The children with whom I had travelled seemed to feel a kind of partnership in
my picture.

'Let's go and look at our artist,' Bob would say to Harry; 'his picture is going to be the
best of the lot.'

They were so fond of watching me, and so much excited over what I was doing, that, as time
went on, I was often obliged to ask them to move further away, so eager were they to watch
every movement of my brush.

I thoroughly enjoyed my morning's work, and went back very hungry, and quite ready for the
comfortable little dinner which Polly had prepared for me. In the afternoon the light would
be all wrong for my picture; but I determined to sketch in the foreground, and prepare for
my next morning's work.

I was very busy upon this, when suddenly I became conscious of music, if music it could be
called. It was the most peculiar sound, and at first I could not find out from whence it came.
It was evidently not caused by a wind instrument; I felt sure it was not a concertina or an
accordion. This sound would go on for a minute or two, and then stop suddenly, only to begin
again more loudly a few seconds later. At times I distinguished a few bars of a tune, then
only disjointed notes followed. Could it be a child strumming idly on a harmonium? but no,
it was not at all like an instrument of that kind. It was an annoying, worrying sound, and
it went on for so long that I began to be vexed with it, and stamped my foot impatiently when,
after a short interval, I heard it begin again. The sound seemed to come from behind the wall
of the house near which I was sitting, and it was repeated from time to time during the whole
of the afternoon.

At length, as the afternoon went on, I began to distinguish what tunes were being attempted.
I made out a bar or two of the old French Republican air, 'The Marseillaise,' and then I was
almost startled by what came next, for it was a tune I had known well since I was a very little
child. It was 'Home, Sweet Home,' and that was my mother's favourite tune; in fact, I never
heard it without thinking of her. Many and many a time had she sung me to sleep with that tune.
I had scarlet fever when I was five years old, and my mother had nursed me through it, and
when I was weary and fretful she would sing to me--my pretty fair-haired mother. Even as I
sat before my easel I could see her, as she sat at the foot of my bed, with the sunshine streaming
upon her through the half-darkened window, and making her look, to my boyish imagination, like
a beautiful angel. And I could hear her voice still; and the sweet tones in which she sang
that very song to me, 'Home, sweet home, there's no place like home.'

I remembered one night especially, in which she knelt by my bed and prayed that she might meet
her boy in the bright city, the sweet home above the sky which was the best and brightest home
of all. I wonder what she would think of me now, I said to myself, and whether she ever will
see me there. I very much doubt it; it seems to me that I am a long way off from Home, Sweet
Home now.

My mother had died soon after that illness of mine, and I knew that she had gone to live in
that beautiful home of which she had so often spoken to me. And I had been left behind, and
my aunt, who had brought me up, had cared for none of these things, and I had learnt to look
at the world and at life from her worldly standpoint, and had forgotten to seek first the Kingdom
of God. Oh! if my mother only knew, my pretty, beautiful mother, I said to myself that day.
And then there came the thought, perhaps she does know, and the thought made me very uncomfortable.
I wished, more than ever, that that cracked old instrument, whatever it was, would stop.

But, in spite of all my wishes, the strange sound went on, and again and again I had to listen
to 'Home, Sweet Home,' and each time that it came it set my memory going, and brought back
to me the words and the looks which I thought I had forgotten. And it set something else going
too--the still, small voice within, accusing me of forgetfulness, not so much of my mother
as of my mother's God.

I began to wish most heartily that I had chosen some other spot for my picture. But it was
working out so well that I felt it would be a great mistake to change, and I hoped that the
individual, man, woman, or child, who had been making that horrible noise might find some other
employment to-morrow, and might leave me in peace.

The next day my wishes were fulfilled, for I was not disturbed, and very little happened except
that my picture made progress. Then came two wet days, on which I had to paint in my little
chamber, and did not get back to my seat under the wall.

I saw a good deal of Duncan during those wet days. He would come and sit beside me as I painted,
and would tell me stories of storms and shipwrecks, and of the different times when the lifeboat
had been sent out, and of the many lives she had saved.

'Have ye seen her, sir? You must go and have a look at our boat; she lies in a house down by
the shore, as trim and tight a little boat as you could wish to see anywhere!'

'I suppose you've been in many a storm yourself, Duncan,' I said.

'Storms, sir! I've very near lived in them ever since I was born. Many and many's the time
I've never expected to see land again. I didn't care so much when I was a young chap. You see,
my father and mother were dead, and if I went to the bottom there was nobody, as you might
say, to feel it; but it's different now, sir, you see.'

'Yes,' I said, 'there's Polly and little John.'

'That's just where it is, sir, Polly and little John, bless 'em; and all the time the wind's
raging, and the waves is coming right over the boat, I'm thinking of my poor lass at home,
and how every gust of wind will be sweeping right over her heart, and how she'll be kneeling
by little John's bed, praying God to bring his daddy safe home again. And I know, sir, as well
as I know anything, that when God Almighty hears and answers her prayer, and brings me safe
to land, Polly and little John will be standing on yon rocks a-straining their eyes for the
first sight of the boats, and then a-running down almost into the water to welcome me home
again. Yes, it makes a sight o' difference to a married man, sir; doesn't it, now? It isn't
the dying, ye understand, it's the leaving behind as I think of. I'm not afraid to die,' he
added humbly and reverently, as he took off his oilskin cap. 'I know whom I have believed.'

'You're a plucky fellow, Duncan,' I said, 'to talk of not being afraid to die. I've just been
at a death-bed, and--'

'And you felt you wouldn't like to be there yourself,' Duncan went on, as I stopped. 'Well,
maybe not, it comes nat'ral to us, sir; we're born with that feeling, I often think, and we
can no more help it than we can help any other thing we're born with. But what I mean to say
is, I'm not afraid of what comes after death. It may be a dark tunnel, sir, but there's light
at the far end!'

Chapter IV

WHAT ARE YOU?

On Saturday of that week the sun shone brightly, and I was up betimes, had an early breakfast,
and set to work at my picture as soon as possible. I had not been painting long before I again
heard voices above me, the same childish voices that I had heard before.

'You give it to him,' said one voice.

'No, Marjorie, I daren't; you take it.'

'You ought not to be afraid, because you're a boy,' said the first speaker; 'father says boys
ought always to be brave.'

'But you're big, Marjorie, and big people ought to be braver than little people!'

There was a long, whispered conversation after this, and I could not distinguish the words
which were spoken. But presently a small piece of pink paper was thrown over the wall, and
fluttered down upon my palette. I caught it up quickly, to prevent it from sticking to the
paints, and I saw there was something printed on it. It ran thus:--

  There will be a short service on the shore on Sunday Morning at
  11 o'clock, when you are earnestly requested to be present.

  Subject: WHAT ARE YOU?

'Thank you,' I said aloud. 'Who sent me this?'

There was no answer at first, then a little voice just above me said, 'Both of us, sir.'

'Come down and talk to me,' I said; 'I can't talk to children whom I can't see. Come out here
and look at my picture.'

They came out presently hand in hand, a little girl of five in a blue tam-o'-shanter cap, a
pale pink frock, and a white pinafore, and a boy of three, the merriest, most sturdy little
fellow I thought I had ever seen. His face was as round and rosy as an apple, his eyes were
dark blue, and had the happiest and most roguish expression that it would be possible for eyes
to have. When the child laughed (and whenever was he not laughing?), every part of his face
laughed together. His eyes began it, his lips followed suit, even his nose was pressed into
the service. If a sunbeam could be caught and dressed up like a little boy, I think it would
look something like that child.

'Now,' I said, 'that's right; I like to see children's faces when I talk to them; tell me your
names to begin with.'

'I'm Marjorie, sir,' said the little girl, 'and he's Jack.'

'Jack!' I said; 'that's my name, and a nice name too, isn't it, little Jack? Come and look
at my picture, little Jack, and see if you think big Jack knows how to paint.'

By degrees they grew more at their ease, and chatted freely with me. Marjorie told me that
her father had sent the paper. Father was going to preach on Sunday; he preached every Sunday,
and numbers of people came, and Jack was in the choir.

What a dear little chorister, to be sure, a chubby little cherub if ever there was one!

'Shall you come, big Jack?' he said, patting my hand with his strong, sturdy little fist.

'I don't know,' I said; 'if it's a fine day, perhaps I shall want to get on with my picture.'

'On Sunday?' said the child in a shocked voice; 'it's on Sunday father preaches, and you couldn't
paint on Sunday, could you?'

'Well, I'll see,' I said; 'perhaps I'll come and hear you sing, little Jack.'

'Thank you, big Jack,' he said, with a merry twinkle in his pretty blue eyes.

'What is this preaching on the shore, Duncan?' I asked.

'Oh, it's our lay preacher,' he said; 'he's a good man, and has done a sight of good in this
place. You see, it's too far for folks here to go to church, and so he lives amongst us, and
has meetings in the hall yonder in winter, and in summer, why, we have 'em on the shore, and
the visitors comes mostly. There's a few won't come, but we get the best of them, and we have
some fine singing--real nice it is! I'm in the choir myself, sir,' he said; 'you wouldn't think
it, but I am. I've got a good strong voice, too!'

It must be a choir worth seeing, I thought, if it contained two such strange contrasts, the
big burly fisherman and the tiny child who had invited me to be present.

I had not quite made up my mind to go. I had not been to a service for many months, I might
almost say years. I had slipped out of it lately, and I thought I should feel myself a fish
out of water. However, when the next day came, every one seemed to take it as a matter of course
that I should be going. Polly was up early, and had dressed little John in his best.

'You'll see him at church, sir,' she said, as she laid my breakfast; 'he always likes to go
to church, and he's as good as gold, bless him!'

Duncan was out before I was up, and I had seen him, as I was dressing, going round to the fishermen
sitting as usual on the seats on the cliff, with a bundle of pink papers in his hand, similar
to the one which had been given me, and distributing them to every group of his mates which
he came across. Yes, I felt that I was expected to go, and it would be hard work to keep away.
But if I had still had any doubt about the matter, it would have surely disappeared when at
half-past ten exactly a tiny couple came toiling hand in hand up the steps leading to Duncan's
door, and announced to Polly that they had come to call for big Mr. Jack to go to church.

It was Marjorie and her little brother, and the small Jack put his little fat hand into that
of big Jack, and led him triumphantly away.

It was a pretty sight to see that congregation gathering on the village green. From the fishermen's
cottages there came a stream of people down to the shore,--mothers with babies in their arms
and leading young children by the hand, groups of boys and girls wearing shoes and stockings
who had been barefooted all the week, many a weather-beaten sailor, many a sunburnt fisher
lad, many elderly people too, old men, and white-haired women in closely-plaited white caps.
There were visitors, too, coming down from the rocks, and these mostly kept in the background,
and had at first an air of watching the movement rather than joining in it. My York friends
were, however, well to the front, and the children nodded to me, and smiled at one another
as they saw me led like a lamb to the service by my two small guardians.

