"St. Peter's. Starts in fifteen minutes."

This seems like "business," and we are inclined to try it, especially as we have no notion
where St. Peter's is.

"Does any other stage go from here to-day anywhere else?"

"Yes. Port Hood. Quarter of an hour."

Everything was about to happen in fifteen minutes. We inquire further. St. Peter's is on the
east coast, on the road to Sydney. Port Hood is on the west coast. There is a stage from Port
Hood to Baddeck. It would land us there some time Sunday morning; distance, eighty miles.

Heavens! what a pleasure-trip. To ride eighty miles more without sleep! We should simply be
delivered dead on the Bras d'Or; that is all. Tell us, gentle driver, is there no other way?

"Well, there's Jim Hughes, come over at midnight with a passenger from Baddeck; he's in the
hotel now; perhaps he'll take you."

Our hope hung on Jim Hughes. The frowzy servant piloted us up to his sleeping-room. "Go right
in," said she; and we went in, according to the simple custom of the country, though it was
a bedroom that one would not enter except on business. Mr. Hughes did not like to be disturbed,
but he proved himself to be a man who could wake up suddenly, shake his head, and transact
business,--a sort of Napoleon, in fact. Mr. Hughes stared at the intruders for a moment, as
if he meditated an assault.

"Do you live in Baddeck?" we asked.

"No; Hogamah,--half-way there."

"Will you take us to Baddeck to-day?"

Mr. Hughes thought. He had intended to sleep--till noon. He had then intended to go over the
Judique Mountain and get a boy. But he was disposed to accommodate. Yes, for money--sum named--he
would give up his plans, and start for Baddeck in an hour. Distance, sixty miles. Here was
a man worth having; he could come to a decision before he was out of bed. The bargain was closed.

We would have closed any bargain to escape a Sunday in the Plaster Cove hotel. There are different
sorts of hotel uncleanliness. There is the musty old inn, where the dirt has accumulated for
years, and slow neglect has wrought a picturesque sort of dilapidation, the mouldiness of time,
which has something to recommend it. But there is nothing attractive in new nastiness, in the
vulgar union of smartness and filth. A dirty modern house, just built, a house smelling of
poor whiskey and vile tobacco, its white paint grimy, its floors unclean, is ever so much worse
than an old inn that never pretended to be anything but a rookery. I say nothing against the
hotel at Plaster Cove. In fact, I recommend it. There is a kind of harmony about it that I
like. There is a harmony between the breakfast and the frowzy Gaelic cook we saw "sozzling"
about in the kitchen. There is a harmony between the appearance of the house and the appearance
of the buxom young housekeeper who comes upon the scene later, her hair saturated with the
fatty matter of the bear. The traveler will experience a pleasure in paying his bill and departing.

Although Plaster Cove seems remote on the map, we found that we were right in the track of
the world's news there. It is the transfer station of the Atlantic Cable Company, where it
exchanges messages with the Western Union. In a long wooden building, divided into two main
apartments, twenty to thirty operators are employed. At eight o'clock the English force was
at work receiving the noon messages from London. The American operators had not yet come on,
for New York business would not begin for an hour. A
cautious, wise and zealous government, inflamed with the spirit of patriotism, without intermission
other enthusiasms, under a real protection, which we in the day, taking all the growth and happiness
of the vast domains governing will be the main bases and columns which support and sustain
the successful outcome of these prove useful.

                         

PART THREE.

The short early establishment of the Black River, and his stubborn opposition, because of so
much waste and costs, [C] you have so much in the air, that the minor storm, everything he gives
ground. For their preservation and increase, it takes much skill and pulse, because real estate
is not in state spending and the multitude of reports and papers
submitted to the Court, have warmed to that first fervor that was
promoted by deleting in its real spirit foundations and causes, and
if not now seeks to hold, all is lost.

These reflections made me, or rather, forced to give the report of February 16 This year, by
order of 14 of the Viceroy Lord asked me D. Juan Jose de Vertiz, to fix the setting in the manner
commanded by His Majesty, the royal order of 1. º August. The blind obedience and the deplorable
state of these issues gave me no other measure, to express the manner and form of their reduction,
leaving room for so short that promoted root, and produjese the high
expectations I have expressed previously, as having said I do that
in that state could not survive, was preparing his whole hurricane
debris.

They reformed to establish the single number of 12 families propose the means of its conservation
and subsistence, and open field with the promotion of whaling, and
supply of salt for to hold and flourish without spending real estate,
and these are the only means have to sustain and encourage, and should
deserve all the attention of this Government.

While the former is of more importance than the second, this is soon and easily, because spending
in the province does not cease, and beseeching order of His Majesty, to not allow in Spain
loading and driving of this kind to the ports of Rio de la Plata, and is prohibited where the carts
go to Salinas as has hitherto been practiced, it is this advantage to the benefit of that population,
and its neighbors engaged in the work of its stocks and the release
of its fruits, achieve profitable use of the industry and trade; with
the whaling established in the port of San Jose will be more important.

The old man could speak a little English, and was disposed to be both communicative and inquisitive.
He asked our business, names, and residence. Of the United States he had only a dim conception,
but his mind rather rested upon the statement that we lived "near Boston." He complained of
the degeneracy of the times. All the young men had gone away from Cape Breton; might get rich
if they would stay and work the farms. But no one liked to work nowadays. From life, we diverted
the talk to literature. We inquired what books they had.

"Of course you all have the poems of Burns?"

"What's the name o' the mon?"

"Burns, Robert Burns."

"Never heard tell of such a mon. Have heard of Robert Bruce. He was a Scotchman."

This was nothing short of refreshing, to find a Scotchman who had never heard of Robert Burns!
It was worth the whole journey to take this honest man by the hand. How far would I not travel
to talk with an American who had never heard of George Washington!

The way was more varied during the next stage; we passed through some pleasant valleys and
picturesque neighborhoods, and at length, winding around the base of a wooded range, and crossing
its point, we came upon a sight that took all the sleep out of us. This was the famous Bras d'Or.

The Bras d'Or is the most beautiful salt-water lake I have ever seen, and more beautiful than
we had imagined a body of salt water could be. If the reader will take the map, he will see
that two narrow estuaries, the Great and the Little Bras d'Or, enter the island of Cape Breton,
on the ragged northeast coast, above the town of Sydney, and flow in, at length widening out
and occupying the heart of the island. The water seeks out all the low places, and ramifies
the interior, running away into lovely bays and lagoons, leaving slender tongues of land and
picturesque islands, and bringing into the recesses of the land, to the remote country farms
and settlements, the flavor of salt, and the fish and mollusks of the briny sea. There is very
little tide at any time, so that the shores are clean and sightly for the most part, like those
of fresh-water lakes. It has all the pleasantness of a fresh-water lake, with all the advantages
of a salt one. In the streams which run into it are the speckled trout, the shad, and the salmon;
out of its depths are hooked the cod and the mackerel, and in its bays fattens the oyster.
This irregular lake is about a hundred miles long, if you measure it skillfully, and in some
places ten miles broad; but so indented is it, that I am not sure but one would need, as we
were informed, to ride a thousand miles to go round it, following all its incursions into the
land. The hills about it are never more than five or six hundred feet high, but they are high
enough for reposeful beauty, and offer everywhere pleasing lines.

What we first saw was an inlet of the Bras d'Or, called, by the driver, Hogamah Bay. At its
entrance were long, wooded islands, beyond which we saw the backs of graceful hills, like the
capes of some poetic sea-coast. The bay narrowed to a mile in width where we came upon it,
and ran several miles inland to a swamp, round the head of which we must go. Opposite was the
village of Hogamah. I had my suspicions from the beginning about this name, and now asked the
driver, who was liberally educated for a driver, how he spelled "Hogamah."

"Why-ko-ko-magh. Hogamah."

Sometimes it is called Wykogamah. Thus the innocent traveler is misled. Along the Whykokomagh
Bay we come to a permanent encampment of the Micmac Indians,--a dozen wigwams in the pine woods.
Though lumber is plenty, they refuse to live in houses. The wigwams, however, are more picturesque
than the square frame houses of the whites. Built up conically of poles, with a hole in the
top for the smoke to escape, and often set up a little from the ground on a timber foundation,
they are as pleasing to the eye as a Chinese or Turkish dwelling. They may be cold in winter,
but blessed be the tenacity of barbarism, which retains this agreeable architecture. The men
live by hunting in the season, and the women support the family by making moccasins and baskets.
These Indians are most of them good Catholics, and they try to go once a year to mass and a
sort of religious festival held at St. Peter's, where their sins are forgiven in a yearly lump.

At Whykokomagh, a neat fishing village of white houses, we stopped for dinner at the Inverness
House. The house was very clean, and the tidy landlady gave us as good a dinner as she could
of the inevitable green tea, toast, and salt fish. She was Gaelic, but Protestant, as the village
is, and showed us with pride her Gaelic Bible and hymn-book. A peaceful place, this Whykokomagh;
the lapsing waters of Bras d'Or made a summer music all along the quiet street; the bay lay
smiling with its islands in front, and an amphitheater of hills rose behind. But for the line
of telegraph poles one might have fancied he could have security and repose here.

We put a fresh pony into the shafts, a beast born with an everlasting uneasiness in his legs,
and an amount of "go" in him which suited his reckless driver. We no longer stood upon the
order of our going; we went. As we left the village, we passed a rocky hay-field, where the
Gaelic farmer was gathering the scanty yield of grass. A comely Indian girl was stowing the
hay and treading it down on the wagon. The driver hailed the farmer, and they exchanged Gaelic
repartee which set all the hay-makers in a roar, and caused the Indian maid to darkly and sweetly
beam upon us. We asked the driver what he had said. He had only inquired what the man would
take for the load--as it stood! A joke is a joke down this way.

I am not about to describe this drive at length, in order that the reader may skip it; for
I know the reader, being of like passion and fashion with him. From the time we first struck
the Bras d'Or for thirty miles we rode in constant sight of its magnificent water. Now we were
two hundred feet above the water, on the hillside, skirting a point or following an indentation;
and now we were diving into a narrow valley, crossing a stream, or turning a sharp corner,
but always with the Bras d'Or in view, the afternoon sun shining on it, softening the outlines
of its embracing hills, casting a shadow from its wooded islands. Sometimes we opened on a
broad water plain bounded by the Watchabaktchkt hills, and again we looked over hill after
hill receding into the soft and hazy blue of the land beyond the great mass of the Bras d'Or.
The reader can compare the view and the ride to the Bay of Naples and the Cornice Road; we
did nothing of the sort; we held on to the seat, prayed that the harness of the pony might
not break, and gave constant expression to our wonder and delight. For a week we had schooled
ourselves to expect nothing more from this wicked world, but here was an enchanting vision.

The only phenomenon worthy the attention of any inquiring mind, in this whole record, I will
now describe. As we drove along the side of a hill, and at least two hundred feet above the
water, the road suddenly diverged and took a circuit higher up. The driver said that was to
avoid a sink-hole in the old road,--a great curiosity, which it was worth while to examine.
Beside the old road was a circular hole, which nipped out a part of the road-bed, some twenty-five
feet in diameter, filled with water almost to the brim, but not running over. The water was
dark in color, and I fancied had a brackish taste. The driver said that a few weeks before,
when he came this way, it was solid ground where this well now opened, and that a large beech-tree
stood there. When he returned next day, he found this hole full of water, as we saw it, and
the large tree had sunk in it. The size of the hole seemed to be determined by the reach of
the roots of the tree. The tree had so entirely disappeared, that he could not with a long
pole touch its top. Since then the water had neither subsided nor overflowed. The ground about
was compact gravel. We tried sounding the hole with poles, but could make nothing of it. The
water seemed to have no outlet nor inlet; at least, it did not rise or fall. To They
need oxen, and the fresh meat would be very helpful and inexpensive. For all offers proportion
those areas: promoting the raising of livestock, may abound over time in terms take some fruit
of their hides and meat, because there will be easy and cheaper this trade, the abundance and
excellent salt salt flats, and be of superior quality such meat to the fields of Montevideo and Buenos
Aires, so their salty pastures. This is another incentive, added to the background, a population
ready to make that useful port for our ships sailing to the South Sea in arrivals, as the immediacy
Black River and stock can be cooled as needed, to prosper in this way navigations, closing the door
to the English why have easy entry into this river, and consequently in the whole kingdom of
Peru, cutting off the progress they make, and can forward with the lights that we have taken these
important discoveries in the fishing the whale, and all this at greater length I have explained
to him that my Lord Vertiz the memorandum is dated October 13, to which I refer.

If our Spanish arrived to establish the trade with accessories that
are proposed in terms which the Crown to produce the same or greater
interest out of Portugal the island of Santa Catalina, by granting
temporary licenses to companies established to this end may be the
most effective and proportionate way to go recognizing the coast and
Strait, and advancing stocks.

Optional only the real power to grant temporary or permanent license to use of these fisheries, as seas
belonging to his dominions. Eyes open knowledge the great practical value of this trade, will attract
interest to their use.

This is the fruit that can take the crown, not by the interests that rotates Portugal, but by the survey
and those populations most advanced Parages south she cares about or interested. At that excels in
the most useful, and we show port insurance for the shelter of the boats, offering people, these
costs compénsesele the granting of any privilege or license to the fishery in the time it seems
regular, formal contractual obligation and mortgages. Unansele those graces which allows the real
protection and sovereignty, and thus, without squandering the royal purse, get the These wastes
to useful Rey domains, preparing a means to attract true knowledge many heathen souls occupy
in the propagation of the faith and usefulness of State and provide different benefits to navigation
and trade.

While the Magellan Strait and islands of Fire is important to us a true and accurate recognition by if
you allow ports that provide us passage to the South Sea, no be neglected the Gulf of San
Jorge, which is located at 45 degrees and minutes to look with the
indifference that so far.


Anchored at some distance from the shore was a slender coasting vessel. The big red moon happened
to come up just behind it, and the masts and spars and ropes of the vessel came out, distinctly
traced on the golden background, making such a night picture as I once saw painted of a ship
in a fiord of Norway. The scene was enchanting. And we respected then the heretofore seemingly
insane impulse that had driven us on to Baddeck.

Although it was an open and flagrant violation of the Sabbath day as it is kept in Scotch Baddeck,
our kind hosts let us sleep late on Sunday morning, with no reminder that we were not sleeping
the sleep of the just. It was the charming Maud, a flitting sunbeam of a girl, who waited to
bring us our breakfast, and thereby lost the opportunity of going to church with the rest of
the family,--an act of gracious hospitality which the tired travelers appreciated.

The travelers were unable, indeed, to awaken into any feeling of Sabbatical straitness. The
morning was delicious,--such a morning as never visits any place except an island; a bright,
sparkling morning, with the exhilaration of the air softened by the sea. What a day it was
for idleness, for voluptuous rest, after the flight by day and night from St. John! It was
enough, now that the morning was fully opened and advancing to the splendor of noon, to sit
upon the upper balcony, looking upon the Bras d'Or and the peaceful hills beyond, reposeful
and yet sparkling with the air and color of summer, and inhale the balmy air. (We greatly need
another word to describe good air, properly heated, besides this overworked "balmy.") Perhaps
it might in some regions be considered Sabbath-keeping, simply to rest in such a soothing situation,--rest,
and not incessant activity, having been one of the original designs of the day.

But our travelers were from New England, and they were not willing to be outdone in the matter
of Sunday observances by such an out-of-the-way and nameless place as Baddeck. They did not
set themselves up as missionaries to these benighted Gaelic people, to teach them by example
that the notion of Sunday which obtained two hundred years ago in Scotland had been modified,
and that the sacredness of it had pretty much disappeared with the unpleasantness of it. They
rather lent themselves to the humor of the hour, and probably by their demeanor encouraged
the respect for the day on Cape Breton Island. Neither by birth nor education were the travelers
fishermen on Sunday, and they were not moved to tempt the authorities to lock them up for dropping
here a line and there a line on the Lord's day.

In fact, before I had finished my second cup of Maud-mixed coffee, my companion, with a little
show of haste, had gone in search of the kirk, and I followed him, with more scrupulousness,
as soon as I could without breaking the day of rest. Although it was Sunday, I could not but
notice that Baddeck was a clean-looking village of white wooden houses, of perhaps seven or
eight hundred inhabitants; that it stretched along the bay for a mile or more, straggling off
into farmhouses at each end, lying for the most part on the sloping curve of the bay. There
were a few country-looking stores and shops, and on the shore three or four rather decayed
and shaky wharves ran into the water, and a few schooners lay at anchor near them; and the
usual decaying warehouses leaned about the docks. A peaceful and perhaps a thriving place,
but not a bustling place. As I walked down the road, a sailboat put out from the shore and
slowly disappeared round the island in the direction of the Grand Narrows. It had a small pleasure
party on board. None of them were drowned that day, and I learned at night that they were Roman
Catholics from Whykokornagh.

The kirk, which stands near the water, and at a distance shows a pretty wooden spire, is after
the pattern of a New England meeting-house. When I reached it, the house was full and the service
had begun. There was something familiar in the bareness and uncompromising plainness and ugliness
of the interior. The pews had high backs, with narrow, uncushioned seats. The pulpit was high,--a
sort of theological fortification,--approached by wide, curving flights of stairs on either
side. And lately, with little more than had been spent, was completed population,
and in terms of survival itself, if it could help with all manner of cattle, as the only force
in agriculture, and soul of the people. By that expired this population can be said when I started
to take breath, and to give a large tests to get what they so desire and so the Court has repeatedly
attempted.

If we reflect on the people of Sierra Morena, find a safe hilacion of and opposition efforts
to be mediated against Patagonian establishments. In the formation of those could not mediate
the difficulties, risks and work, which in these, being in the center of Spain, and not lacking
in terms of human needs for the preservation of life and relief of mind in the rational society.
Quite the contrary were the proportions of these establishments. Salted meat, bad bacon, miniestra
minced, and meals usually stale have been the mainstay of its individuals. Reduced rational treatment
to each other, the risks many of the wild Indians, and Breakfast miserable shacks, or huts
of straw, irresistible to the inclement stations. See inequality as the average of one to another.
In the Sierra Morena there was more to do than build the houses, simple operation for the many
materials and operators that were held. For the cultivation of land were provided with oxen tamed,
and excellent tools that filled their wishes. In the Patagonian coast around lacked: the rigors
of cold climate, particularly in San Julian, and only found the greatest relief where he was
suspicious of the risk. The savage Indians held and encouraged us at that port, providing relief
to the unfortunate people with guanaco meat, without whose help had perished, and the Black River,
with the hares, horses and many cattle. Now So Check against the advantages enjoyed by the Sierra
Morena with the misfortunes of those Rio San Julian and Black, and fairly be said that everything
was happy and joy, and here all unhappiness and sadness. Despite this inequality, and be near
a wisest king that manages the universe, plotted intrigues and contradictions that are notorious
of which can be inferred that such a lengthy mediated hemisphere where only the two commissioners
have been and will hold a impregnable rock.
 It was doubtless my fault that I got no idea whatever from
it. But the adults of the congregation appeared to be perfectly satisfied with it; at least
they sat bolt upright and nodded assent continually. The children all went to sleep under it,
without any hypocritical show of attention. To be sure, the day was warm and the house was
unventilated. If the windows had been opened so as to admit the fresh air from the Bras d'Or,
I presume the hard-working farmers and their wives would have resented such an interference
with their ordained Sunday naps, and the preacher's sermon would have seemed more musty than
it appeared to be in that congenial and drowsy air. Considering that only half of the congregation
could understand the preacher, its behavior was exemplary.

After the sermon, a collection was taken up for the minister; and I noticed that nothing but
pennies rattled into the boxes,--a melancholy sound for the pastor. This might appear niggardly
on the part of these Scotch Presbyterians, but it is on principle that they put only a penny
into the box; they say that they want a free gospel, and so far as they are concerned they
have it. Although the farmers about the Bras d'Or are well-to-do they do not give their minister
enough to keep his soul in his Gaelic body, and his poor support is eked out by the contributions
of a missionary society. It was gratifying to learn that this was not from stinginess on the
part of the people, but was due to their religious principle. It seemed to us that everybody
ought to be good in a country where it costs next to nothing.

When the service was over, about half of the people departed; the rest remained in their seats
and prepared to enter upon their Sabbath exercises. These latter were all Gaelic people, who
had understood little or nothing of the English service. The minister turned himself at once
into a Gaelic preacher and repeated in that language the long exercises of the morning. The
sermon and perhaps the prayers were quite as enjoyable in Gaelic as in English, and the singing
was a great improvement. It was of the same Psalms, but the congregation chanted them in a
wild and weird tone and manner, as wailing and barbarous to modern ears as any Highland devotional
outburst of two centuries ago. This service also lasted about two hours; and as soon as it
was over the faithful minister, without any rest or refreshment, organized the Sunday-school,
and it must have been half past three o'clock before that was over. And this is considered
a day of rest.

These Gaelic Christians, we were informed, are of a very old pattern; and some of them cling
more closely to religious observances than to morality. Sunday is nowhere observed with more
strictness. The community seems to be a very orderly and thrifty one, except upon solemn and
stated occasions. One of these occasions is the celebration of the Lord's Supper; and in this
the ancient Highland traditions are preserved. The rite is celebrated not oftener than once
a year by any church. It then invites the neighboring churches to partake with it,--the celebration
being usually in the summer and early fall months. It has some of the characteristics of a
"camp-meeting." People come from long distances, and as many as two thousand and three thousand
assemble together. They quarter themselves without special invitation upon the members of the
inviting church. Sometimes fifty people will pounce upon one farmer, overflowing his house
and his barn and swarming all about his premises, consuming all the provisions he has laid
up for his family, and all he can raise money to buy, and literally eating him out of house
and home. Not seldom a man is almost ruined by one of these religious raids,--at least he is
left with a debt of hundreds of dollars. The multitude assembles on Thursday and remains over
Sunday. There is preaching every day, but there is something besides. Whatever may be the devotion
of a part of the assembly, the four days are, in general, days of license, of carousing, of
drinking, and of other excesses, which our informant said he would not particularize; we could
understand what they were by reading St. Paul's rebuke of the Corinthians for similar offenses.
The evil has become so great and burdensome that the celebration of this sacred rite will have
to be reformed altogether.

Such a Sabbath quiet pervaded the street of Baddeck, that the fast driving of the Gaels in
their rattling, one-horse wagons, crowded full of men, women, and children,--released from
their long sanctuary privileges, and going home,--was a sort of profanation of the day; and
we gladly turned aside to visit the rural jail of the town.

Upon the principal street or road of Baddeck stands the dreadful prison-house. It is a story
and a quarter edifice, built of stone and substantially whitewashed; retired a little from
the road, with a square of green turf in front of it, I should have taken it for the residence
of the Dairyman's Daughter, but for the iron gratings at the lower windows. A more inviting
place to spend the summer in, a vicious person could not have. The Scotch keeper of it is an
old, garrulous, obliging man, and keeps codfish tackle to loan. I think that if he had a prisoner
who was fond of fishing, he would take him with him on the bay in pursuit of the mackerel and
the cod. If the prisoner were to take advantage of his freedom and attempt to escape, the jailer's
feelings would be hurt, and public opinion would hardly approve the prisoner's conduct.

The jail door was hospitably open, and the keeper invited us to enter. Having seen the inside
of a good many prisons in our own country (officially), we were interested in inspecting this.
It was a favorable time for doing so, for there happened to be a man confined there, a circumstance
which seemed to increase the keeper's feeling of responsibility in his office. The edifice
had four rooms on the ground-floor, and an attic sleeping-room above. Three of these rooms,
which were perhaps twelve feet by fifteen feet, were cells; the third was occupied by the jailer's
family. The family were now also occupying the front cell,--a cheerful room commanding a view
of the village street and of the bay. A prisoner of a philosophic turn of mind, who had committed
some crime of sufficient magnitude to make him willing to retire from the world for a season
and rest, might enjoy himself here very well.

The jailer exhibited his premises with an air of modesty. In the rear was a small yard, surrounded
by a board fence, in which the prisoner took his exercise. An active boy could climb over it,
and an enterprising pig could go through it almost anywhere. The keeper said that he intended
at the next court to ask the commissioners to build the fence higher and stop up the holes.
Otherwise the jail was in good condition. Its inmates were few; in fact, it was rather apt
to be empty: its occupants were usually prisoners for debt, or for some trifling breach of
the peace, committed under the influence of the liquor that makes one "unco happy." Whether
or not the people of the region have a high moral standard, crime is almost unknown; the jail
itself is an evidence of primeval simplicity. The great incident in the old jailer's life had
been the rescue of a well-known citizen who was confined on a charge of misuse of public money.
The keeper showed me a place in the outer wall of the front cell, where an attempt had been
made to batter a hole through. The Highland clan and kinsfolk of the alleged defaulter came
one night and threatened to knock the jail in pieces if he was not given up. They bruised the
wall, broke the windows, and finally smashed in the door and took their man away. The jailer
was greatly excited at this rudeness, and went almost immediately and purchased a pistol. He
said that for a time he did n't feel safe in the jail without it. The mob had thrown stones
at the upper windows, in order to awaken him, and had insulted him with cursing and offensive
language.

Having finished inspecting the building, I was unfortunately moved by I know not what national
pride and knowledge of institutions superior to this at home, to say,

"This is a pleasant jail, but it doesn't look much like our great prisons; we have as many
as a thousand to twelve hundred men in some of our institutions."

"Ay, ay, I have heard tell," said the jailer, shaking his head in pity, "it's an awfu' place,
an awfu' place,--the United States. I suppose it's the wickedest country that ever was in the
world. I don't know,--I don't know what is to become of it. It's worse than Sodom. There was
that dreadful war on the South; and I hear now it's very unsafe, full of murders and robberies
and corruption."

I did not attempt to correct this impression concerning my native land, for I saw it was a
comfort to the simple jailer, but I tried to put a thorn into him by saying,

"Yes, we have a good many criminals, but the majority of them, the majority of those in jails,
are foreigners; they come from Ireland, England, and the Provinces."

But the old man only shook his head more solemnly, and persisted, "It's an awfu' wicked country."

Before I came away I was permitted to have an interview with the sole prisoner, a very pleasant
and talkative man, who was glad to see company, especially intelligent company who understood
about things, he was pleased to say. Is performed so strange and violent landing: you look with indifference
the King's service, and the remaining state of those miserable, abusing the loyalty obedience
and courage with which despised death.

What else could make the Court, in an era when Spain was afflicted with the efforts that caused
the willful rebellion of the flamingos, which gears up as respectable navy, and later strengthened
with four galleons? If you have played Diego Rivera their orders with more foresight, with
another baby, or with more humanity, repeating aid with the vessels under his command, those
populations have been set, or at least would not have lost so loyal and unfortunate Spanish,
but their inconsistency, and no suffering to the work, made useless the efforts of King, and
sacrificed to these unhappy.

Although the experience of these events gave to the wise minister, who so glory of the nation
address the monarchy, the light and knowledge, so do not develop so unfortunate end establishments
latter Bottomless Bays and San Julian, no so have been able to free himself from the same contrasts
that finally brought down to a estenuado skeleton of the young population of the Black River.
With such a strong case (though never gave up the intent of these populations), they had indeed
found the King at any cost in both expressed bays. To this end appointed commissioners, and
ordered families from different provinces of Spain, with his real
will, who enlist the most honest, hardworking and better behavior.

Implemented this project with the first expedition that came out of Montevideo, commanding D. John
Stone, was discovered the port of San Jose, where he was made the first provisional establishment,
and the little water they carried vessels, lack of horses, oxen and mules to lead from sources
that were discovered, and poor quality of food supplies, sick people, and missed the record to wait
for relief from the Rio de la Plata or River Black, which was discovered a short time, forcing
the commander most violent terms D. Antonio de Viedma to withdraw
with almost all of the people, to the square of Montevideo, Santa
Teresa in the packet boat.

The opposite event that caused it was the arrival at Buenos Aires D. Basilio Villarino Black River,
where he delivered the Super-intendant D. Francisco de Viedma, to succor the port of San José,
with a lot of watery which led the brigantine Our Lady of Mount Caramel and Animas, and the loss
of the hooker, call the Visitation, which was to set sail in that bay to drive aid to the San José:
Well, having achieved any of these relief, has not been rooted with
scurvy killed 28 men had not forsaken that position, and caused the
loss of the effects and there were groceries. But, you see," and here he began
to speak confidentially, "things are fixed about so in this world, and a man's got to live
his life. I tell you how it was. It all came about from a woman. I was a carpenter, had a good
trade, and went down to St. Peter's to work. There I got acquainted with a Frenchwoman,--you
know what Frenchwomen are,--and I had to marry her. The fact is, she was rather low family;
not so very low, you know, but not so good as mine. Well, I wanted to go to Boston to work
at my trade, but she wouldn't go; and I went, but she would n't come to me, so in two or three
years I came back. A man can't help himself, you know, when he gets in with a woman, especially
a Frenchwoman. Things did n't go very well, and never have. I can't make much out of it, but
I reckon a man 's got to live his life. Ain't that about so?"

"Perhaps so. But you'd better try to mend matters when you get out. Won't it seem rather good
to get out and see your wife and family again?"

"I don't know. I have peace here."

The question of his liberty seemed rather to depress this cheerful and vivacious philosopher,
and I wondered what the woman could be from whose companionship the man chose to be protected
by jail-bolts. I asked the landlord about her, and his reply was descriptive and sufficient.
He only said,

"She's a yelper."

