No reinforcements arrived after the first appearance of the British fleet. Marin, a well-known
guerilla leader, had been sent down from Quebec, through the bush, with six or seven hundred
whites and Indians, to join the two thousand men whom the French government had promised du
Vivier for a second, and this time a general, attack on Acadia. But these other two thousand
were never sent; and Marin, having failed to take Annapolis by the first week in June, was
too late and too weak to help Louisbourg afterwards. The same ill luck pursued the French by
sea. On April 30 the Renommee, a very smart frigate bringing out dispatches, was chased off
by the Provincial cruisers; while all subsequent arrivals from the outside world were intercepted
by Warren.

The landing effected on May 12 was not managed according to Shirley's written instructions;
nor was the siege. Shirley had been playing a little war game in his study, with all the inconvenient
obstacles left out--the wind, the weather, the crashing surf in Gabarus Bay, the rocks and
bogs of the surrounding country, the difficulties of entering a narrow-necked harbour under
a combination of end-on and broadside fire, the terrible lee shore off the islands, reefs,
and Lighthouse Point, the commonest vigilance of the most slovenly garrison, and even the offensive
power of the guns on the walls of Louisbourg itself. Shirley's plan was that Pepperrell should
arrive in the offing too late to be seen, land unobserved, and march on Louisbourg in four
detachments while the garrison was wrapped in slumber. Two of these detachments were to march
within striking distance and then 'halt and keep a profound silence.' The third was to march
'under cover of said hills' until it came opposite the Royal Battery, which it was to assault
on a given signal; while the 'profound silence' men rushed the western gate. The fourth detachment
was to race along the shore, scale a certain spot in the wall, 'and secure the windows of the
Governor's Apartments.' All this was to be done by raw militia, on ground they had never reconnoitred,
and in the dead of night.

Needless to say, Pepperrell tried something quite different. At daybreak of the 12th the whole
fleet stood into Gabarus Bay, a large open roadstead running west from the little Louisbourg
peninsula. The Provincials eyed the fortress eagerly. It looked mean, squat, and shrunken in
the dim grey light of early dawn. But it looked hard enough, for all that. Its alarm bells
began to ring. Its signal cannon fired. And all the people who had been living outside hurried
in behind the walls.

The New Englanders were so keen to land that they ran some danger of falling into complete
disorder. But Pepperrell managed very cleverly. Seeing that some Frenchmen were ready to resist
a landing on Flat Point, two miles south-west of Louisbourg, he made a feint against it, drew
their fire, and then raced his boats for Freshwater Cove, another two miles beyond. Having
completely outdistanced the handful of panting Frenchmen, he landed in perfect safety and presently
scattered them with a wild charge which cost them about twenty in killed, wounded, and prisoners.
Before dark two thousand Provincials were ashore. The other two thousand landed at their leisure
the following day.

The next event in this extraordinary siege is one of the curiosities of war. On May 14 the
enthusiastic Vaughan took several hundreds of these newly landed men to the top of the nearest
hillock and saluted the walls with three cheers. He then circled the whole harbour, keeping
well inland, till he reached the undefended storehouses on the inner side of the North-East
Harbour, a little beyond the Royal Battery. These he at once set on fire. The pitch, tar, wood,
and other combustibles made a blinding smoke, which drifted over the Royal Battery and spread
a stampeding panic among its garrison of four hundred men. Vaughan then retired for the night.
On his return to the Royal Battery in the morning, with only thirteen men, he was astounded
to see no sign of life there. Suspecting a ruse, he bribed an Indian with a flask of brandy
to feign being drunk and reel up to the walls. The Indian reached the fort unchallenged, climbed
into an embrasure, and found the whole place deserted. Vaughan followed at once; and a young
volunteer, shinning up the flag-pole, made his own red coat fast to the top. This defiance
was immediately answered by a random salvo from Louisbourg, less than a mile across the harbour.
Quite undaunted, however, he stood out on the open beach with his thirteen men and kept them
all at bay till the reinforcement and the flag arrived with Bradstreet, who was afterwards
to win distinction as the captor of Fort Frontenac during the great campaign of 1759.

This disgraceful abandonment and this dramatic capture of the Royal Battery marked the first
and most decisive turning-point in the fortunes of the siege. The French were dismayed, the
British were elated; and both the dismay and the elation grew as time wore on, because everything
seemed to conspire against the French and in favour of the British. Even the elements, as the
anonymous Habitant de Louisbourg complains in his wonderfully candid diary, seemed to have
taken sides. There had never been so fine a spring for naval operations. But this was the one
thing which was entirely independent of French fault or British merit. All the other strokes
of luck owed something to human causes. Wise-acres had shaken their heads over the crazy idea
of taking British cannon balls solely to fit French cannon that were to be taken at the beginning
of the siege: it was too much like selling the pelt before the trap was sprung. Yet these balls
actually were used to load the forty-two pounders taken with the Royal Battery! Moreover, as
if to cap the climax, ten other cannon were found buried in the North-East Harbour; and again
spare British balls were found to fit exactly! The fact is that what we should now call the
Intelligence Department had been doing good work the year before by spying out the land at
Louisbourg and reporting to the proper men in Boston.

The Bostonians had always intended to take the Royal Battery at the earliest possible moment.
But nobody had thought that the French would abandon it without a blow and leave it intact
for their enemy, with all its armament complete. The French council of war apparently shrank
from hurting the feelings of the engineer in charge, who had pleaded for its preservation!
They then ran away without spiking the guns properly, and without making the slightest attempt
either to burn the carriages or knock the trunnions off. The invaluable stores were left in
their places. The only real destruction was caused by a barrel of powder, which some bunglers
blew up by mistake. The inevitable consequence of all this French ineptitude was that the Royal
Battery roared against Louisbourg the very next morning with tremendous effect, smashing the
works most exposed to its fire, bringing down houses about the inhabitants' ears, and sending
the terrified non-combatants scurrying off to underground cover.

Meanwhile the bulk of the New Englanders were establishing their camp along the brook which
fell into Gabarus Bay beside Flat Point and within two miles of Louisbourg. Equipment of all
kinds was very scarce. Tents were so few and bad that old sails stretched over ridge-poles
had to be used instead. When sails ran short, brushwood shelters roofed in with overlapping
spruce boughs were used as substitutes.

Landing the four thousand men had been comparatively easy work. But landing the stores was
very hard indeed; while landing the guns was not only much harder still, but full of danger
as well. Many a flat-boat was pounded into pulpwood while unloading the stores, though the
men waded in waist-deep and carried all the heavy bundles on their heads and shoulders. When
it came to the artillery, it meant a boat lost for every single piece of ordnance landed. Nor
was even this the worst; for, strange as it may seem, there was, at first, more risk of foundering
ashore than afloat. There were neither roads nor yet the means to make them. There were no
horses, oxen, mules, or any other means of transport, except the brawny men themselves, who
literally buckled to with anchor-cable drag-ropes--a hundred pair of straining men for each
great, lumbering gun. Over the sand they went at a romp. Over the rocks they had to take care;
and in the dense, obstructing scrub they had to haul through by main force. But this was child's
play to what awaited them in the slimy, shifting, and boulder-strewn bog they had to pass before
reaching the hillocks which commanded Louisbourg.

The first attempts here were disastrous. The guns sank out of sight in the engulfing bog; while
the toiling men became regular human targets for shot and shell from Louisbourg. It was quite
plain that the British batteries could never be built on the hillocks if the guns had nothing
to keep them from a boggy grave, and if the men had no protection from the French artillery.
But a ship-builder colonel, Meserve of New Hampshire, came to the rescue by designing a gun-sleigh,
sixteen feet in length and five in the beam. Then the crews were told off again, two hundred
men for each sleigh, and orders were given that the work should not be done except at night
or under cover of the frequent fogs. After this, things went much better than before. But the
labour was tremendous still; while the danger from random shells bursting among the boulders
was not to be despised. Four hundred struggling feet, four hundred straining arms--each team
hove on its long, taut cable through fog, rain, and the blackness of the night, till every
gun had been towed into one of the batteries before the walls. The triumph was all the greater
because the work grew, not easier, but harder as it progressed. The same route used twice became
an impassable quagmire. So, when the last two hundred men had wallowed through, the whole ensnaring
bog was seamed with a perfect maze of decoying death-trails snaking in and out of the forbidding
scrub and boulders.

Pepperrell's dispatches could not exaggerate these 'almost incredible hardships.' Afloat and
ashore, awake and asleep, the men were soaking wet for days together. At the end of the longest
haul they had nothing but a choice of evils. They could either lie down where they were, on
hard rock or oozing bog, exposed to the enemy's fire the moment it was light enough to see
the British batteries, or they could plough their way back to camp. Here they were safe enough
from shot and shell; but, in other respects, no better off than in the batteries. Most men's
kits were of the very scantiest. Very few had even a single change of clothing. A good many
went bare-foot. Nearly all were in rags before the siege was over.

When twenty-five pieces had been dragged up to Green Hill and its adjoining hillocks, the bombardment
at last began. The opening salvo seemed to give the besiegers new life. No sooner was their
first rough line of investment formed than they commenced gaining ground, with a disregard
for cover which would have cost them dear if the French practice had not been quite as bad
as their own. A really wonderful amount of ammunition was fired off on both sides without hitting
anything in particular. Louisbourg itself was, of course, too big a target to be missed, as
a rule; and the besiegers soon got so close that they simply had to be hit themselves now and
then. But, generally speaking, it may be truthfully said that while, in an ordinary battle,
it takes a man's own weight in cartridges to kill him, in this most extraordinary siege it
took at least a horse's weight as well.

The approach to the walls defied all the usual precautions of regular war. But the circumstances
justified its boldness. With only four thousand men at the start, with nearly half of this
total on the sick list at one rather critical juncture, with very few trained gunners, and
without any corps of engineers at all, the Provincials adapted themselves to the situation
so defiantly that they puzzled, shook, and overawed the French, who thought them two or three
times stronger than they really were. Recklessly defiant though they were, however, they did
provide the breaching batteries with enough cover for the purpose in hand. This is amply proved
both by the fewness of their casualties and by the evidence of Bastide, the British engineer
at Annapolis, who inspected the lines of investment on his arrival, twelve days before the
surrender, and reported them sufficiently protected.

Where the Provincials showed their 'prentice hands to genuine disadvantage was in their absurdly
solemn and utterly futile councils of war. No schoolboys' debating club could well have done
worse than the council held to consider du Chambon's stereotyped answer to the usual summons
sent in at the beginning of a siege. The formula that 'his cannon would answer for him' provoked
a tremendous storm in the council's teacup and immediately resulted in the following resolution:
'Advised, Unanimously, that the Towne of Louisbourg be Attacked this Night.' But, confronted
with 'a great Dissatysfaction in many of the officers and Souldiers at the designed attack
of the towne this Night,' it was 'Advised, Unanimously,' by a second council, called in great
haste, 'that the Said Attack be deferred for the Present.' This 'Present' lasted during the
rest of the siege.

Once the New Englanders had settled down, however, they wisely began to increase their weight
of metal, as well as to decrease the range at which they used it. They set to work with a will
to make a breach at the North-West Gate of Louisbourg, near where the inner angle of the walls
abutted on the harbour; and they certainly needed all their indomitable perseverance when it
came to arming their new 'North-Western' or 'Titcomb's Battery.' The twenty-two pounders had
required two hundred men apiece. The forty-two pounders took three hundred. Two of these unwieldy
guns were hauled a couple of miles round the harbour, in the dark, from that 'Royal Battery'
which Vaughan had taken 'by the Grace of God and the courage of 13 Men,' and then successfully
mounted at 'Titcomb's,' just where they could do the greatest damage to their former owners,
the French.

Well-trained gunners were exceedingly scarce. Pepperrell could find only six among his four
thousand men. But Warren lent him three more, whom he could ill spare, as no one knew when
a fleet might come out from France. With these nine instructors to direct them Pepperrell's
men closed in their line of fire till besieged and besiegers came within such easy musket-shot
of one another that taunting challenges and invitations could be flung across the intervening
space.

Each side claimed advantages and explained shortcomings to its own satisfaction.

The practice continued to be exceedingly bad on both sides; so bad, indeed, that the New Englanders
suffered more from the bursting of their own guns than from the enemy's fire. The nine instructors
could not be everywhere; and all their good advice could not prevent the eager amateurs from
grossly overloading the double-shotted pieces. But, in spite of all such drawbacks on the British
side, Louisbourg got much the worst of it. The French had to fire from the centre outwards,
at a semicircle of batteries that fired back convergingly at them. Besides, it was almost as
hard to hit the thin, irregular line of British batteries as it was to miss the deep, wide
target of overcrowded Louisbourg. The walls were continually being smashed from without and
patched up from within. The streets were ploughed from end to end. Many houses were laid in
ruins: only one remained intact when the siege was over. The non-combatants, who now exceeded
the garrison effectives, were half buried in the smothering casemates underground; and though
the fighting men had light, air, and food enough, and though they were losing very few in killed
and wounded, they too began to feel that Louisbourg must fall if it was not soon relieved from
outside.

The British, on the contrary, grew more and more confident, both afloat and ashore, though
they had one quite alarming scare ashore. They knew their navy outmatched the French; and they
saw that, while Warren was being strengthened, du Chambon was being left as devoid of naval
force as ever. But their still greater confidence ashore was, for the time being, very rudely
shaken when they heard that Marin, the same French guerilla leader who had been sent down from
Quebec against Annapolis with six or seven hundred whites and Indians, had been joined by the
promised reinforcements from France and was coming to take the camp in rear. The truth was
that the reinforcements never arrived, that Marin had failed to take Annapolis, and that there
was no real danger from his own dwindling force, even if it had tried to relieve Louisbourg
in June. But the rumour ran quickly through the whole camp, probably not without Pepperrell's
own encouragement, and at once produced, not a panic, but the most excellent effect. Discipline,
never good, had been growing worse. Punishments were unknown. Officers and men were petitioning
for leave to go home, quite regardless of the need for their services at the front. Demands
for promotion, for extra allowances, and for increased pay were becoming a standing nuisance.
Then, just as the leaders were at their wits' ends what to do, Marin's threatened attack came
to their aid; and their brave armed mob once more began to wear the semblance of an army. Sentries,
piquets, and outposts appeared as if by magic. Officers went their rounds with zeal. The camp
suddenly ceased to be a disorderly playground for every one off duty. The breaching batteries
redoubled their efforts against the walls.

The threat of danger once past, however, the men soon slipped back into their careless ways.
Races, wrestling, and quoits were better; while fishing was highly commendable, both in the
way of diet as well as in the way of sport. Such entries as 'Thritty Lobbsters' and '6 Troutts'
appear in several diaries.

Nor were other forms of gaiety forgotten. Even a Massachusetts Puritan could recommend a sermon
for general distribution in the camp because 'It will please your whole army, as it shows them
the way to gain by their gallantry the hearts and affections of the Ladys.' And even a city
of the 'Great Awakening,' like Boston, could produce a letter like the following:

   I hope this will find you at Louisbourg with a bowl
   of Punch, a Pipe, and a Pack of Cards, and whatever
   else you desire.

