Harry went softly to the window and drew back a corner of the blind. The dawn was gradually
revealing the forms and colours of the garden, and in the grey, misty light things were mysterious
and uncertain; like white lights in a dusky room the two white statues shone through the mist.
At that strange hour they seemed in their right atmosphere; they seemed to move and turn and
bend--he could have fancied that they sailed on the mist--that, for a moment, they had vanished
and then that they had grown enormous, monstrous.  He watched them eagerly, and as the light
grew clearer he made them out more plainly--the straight, eager beauty of the man, the dim,
mysterious grace of the woman. Perhaps they talked in those early hours when they were alone
in the garden; perhaps they might speak to him if he were to join them then. Then he fancied
that the mist formed into figures of men and women; to his excited fancy the garden seemed
peopled with shapes that increased and dwindled and vanished.  Round the statues many shapes
gathered; one in especial seemed to walk to and fro with its face turned to the house.  It
was a woman--her grey dress floated in the air, and he saw her form outlined against the statue.
Then the mist seemed to sweep down again and catch the statues in its eddies and hide them
from his gaze.  The dawn was breaking very slowly.  From the window the sweep of the sea was,
in daylight, perfectly visible: now in the dim grey of the sky it was hidden--but Harry knew
where it must be and watched for its appearance.  The first lights were creeping over the sky,
breaking in delicate tints and ripples of silver and curving, arc-shaped, from the west to
the east.

Where sky and sea divided a faint pale line of grey hovered and broke, turning into other paler
lights of the most delicate blue.  The dawn had come.

He turned back again to the garden and started with surprise: in the more certain light there
was no doubt that it was a woman who stood there by the statues, guarding the first early beauties
of the garden. Everything was pearl-grey, save where, high above the water of the fountain
that stood in the centre of the lawn, the sky had broken into a little lake of the palest blue
and this was reflected in the still mirror of the fountain--but it was a woman.  He could see
the outline of her form--the bend of her neck as she turned with her face to the house, the
straight line of her arms as they tell at her sides.  And, as he looked, his heart began to
beat thickly.  He seemed to recognise that carriage of the body from the hips, the fling-back
of the head as she stared towards the windows.

The light of the dawn was breaking over the garden, the chorus of the birds was loud in the
trees, and he knew that it was no dream.

He glanced for a moment at his father, and then crept softly from the room.  He found one of
the nurses making tea over a spirit-lamp in the dressing-room and asked her to take his place.

The house was perfectly silent as he opened the French window of the drawing-room and stepped
on to the lawn.  The grass was heavy with dew and the fresh air beat about his face; he had
never known anything quite so fresh--the air, the grass, the trees, the birds' song like the
sound of hidden waters tumbling on to some unseen rock.

Her face was turned away from him and his feet made no sound on the grass.  He came perfectly
silently towards her, and then when he saw that it had indeed been no imagination but that
it was reality, and when he knew all that her coming there meant and what it implied, for moment
his limbs shook so that he could scarcely stand.  Then he laughed a little and said "Mary!"

She turned with a little cry, and when she saw who it was the crimson flooded her face, changing
it as the rising sun was soon to change the grey of the sea and the garden.

"Oh!" she cried, "I didn't know--I didn't mean.  I----"

"It is going to be a lovely day," he said quietly, "the sun will be up in a moment.  I have
been watching you from my father's window."

"Oh!  You mustn't!" she cried eagerly.  "I thought that I was safe--absolutely; I was here
quite by chance--really I was--I couldn't sleep, and I thought that I would watch the sunrise
over the sea--and I went down to the beach--and then--well, there was the little wood by your
garden, and it was so wonderfully still and silent, and I saw those statues gleaming through
the trees, and they looked so beautiful that I came nearer.  I meant to come only for a moment
and then go away again--but--I--stayed----"

But he could scarcely hear what she said; he only saw her standing there with her dress trembling
a little in the breeze.

"Mary," he said, "you did not mean what you told me the other day?"

She looked at him for a moment and then suddenly flung out her hands and touched his coat.
"No," she answered.

For a moment they were utterly silent.  Then he took her into his arms.

"I love you!  How I love you!"

Her hair was about his face, for a moment her face was buried in his coat, then she lifted
it and their lips met.

He shook from head to foot, he crushed her to him, then he released her.

She glanced up at him with her hand still touching his coat and looked into his eyes.

"I will love you and serve you and honour you always," she said.  She took his arm and they
passed down the lawn and watched the light breaking over the sea.  The sky was broken into
thousands of fleecy clouds of mother-of-pearl--the sea was trembling as though the sun had
whispered that it was near at hand, and, on the horizon, the first bars of pale gold heralded
its coming.

"I have loved you," he said, "since the first moment that I saw you--I gave you tea and muffins;
I deserted the Miss Ponsonbys in order to serve you."

"And I too!" she answered, laughing.  "I could not eat the muffin for love of you, and I was
jealous of the Miss Ponsonbys!"

"Why did you turn me out the other day?"

"They had been talking--mother and the others; and I was hurt terribly, and I thought that
you would hear what they had said and would think, perhaps, that it was true and would despise
me.  And then after you had gone, I knew that nothing in the world could make any difference--that
they could say what they pleased, but that I could not live without you--you see I am very young!"

"Oh, and I am so old, dear!  You mustn't forget that!  Do you think that you could ever put
up with any one as old as I am?"

She laughed.  "You are just the same age as myself," she cried.  "You will always be the same
age, and I am not sure but I think that you are younger----"

And suddenly the sun had risen--a great ball of fire changing all the blue of the sky to red
and gold, and they watched as the gods had watched the flaming ruin of Valhalla.

But the daylight drove them to other thoughts.

"I must go back," she said.  "I will go down to the shore and perhaps will meet father.  Oh!
you don't know what I have suffered during these last few days.  I thought that perhaps I had
driven you away and that you would never come back--and then I had a silly idea that I would
watch your windows--and so I came----"

"Why!  I have watched yours!" he cried--"often!  Oh! we will have some times!"

"But you must remember that there will be three of us," she answered. "There is Robin!"

"Robin!  Why, it will be splendid!  You and Robin and I!"

"Poor Robin----"  She laughed.  "You don't know how I scolded him last night.  It was about
you and I was unhappy.  He is changing fast, and it is because of you.  He has come round----"

"We have all come round!" cried Harry.  "He and you and I!  Oh! this is the beginning of the
world for all of us--and I am forty-five!  Will you write to me later in the day?  I cannot
get down until to-night. My father is very ill--I must be here.  But write to me--a long letter--it
will be as though you were talking."

She laughed.  "Yes, I'll write," she cried; then she looked at him again--"I love you," she
said, as though she were reciting her faith, "because you are good, because you are strong,
because--oh! for no reason at all--just because you are you."

For a moment they watched the sea, and then again he took her in his arms and held her as though
he would never let her go--then she vanished through the trees.

The house was waking into life as he re-entered it; servants were astir at an early hour: he
had been away such a little time, but the world was another place.  Every detail of the house--the
stairs, the hall, the windows, the clocks, the pot-pourri scent from the bowls of dried roses,
the dance of the dust in the light of the rising sun, was presented to him now with a new meaning.
He was glad that she had stayed with him such a little while--it made it more precious, her
coming with the shadows in that grey of breaking skies and a mysterious plunging sea, and then
vanishing with the rising sun.  Oh! they would come down to earth soon enough!--let him keep
that kiss, those few words, her last smile as she vanished into the wood, like the visible
signs of the other world that had, at last, been allowed to him.  The vision of the Grail had
passed from his eyes, but the memory of it was to be his most sacred possession.

He went to his room, had a bath, and then returned to his father; of course, he could not sleep.

Clare, Garrett, and Robin met at breakfast with the sense of approaching calamity heavy upon
them.  As far as Sir Jeremy himself was concerned there was little real regret--how could there
be?  Of course, there was the sentiment of separation, the breaking of a great many ties that
had been strong and traditional; but it was better that the old man should go--of that there
was no question.  Sir Jeremy himself would rather.  No, "Le roi est mort" was easy enough to
say, but how "Vive le roi" stuck in their throats.

Garrett hinted at a wretched night, and quoted Benham on the dangers of an arm-chair at night-time.

"Of course, one had been thinking," he said vaguely, after a melancholy survey of eggs and
bacon that developed into resignation over dry toast--"there was a good deal to think about.
But I certainly had intended to go to bed--I can't imagine what----"

Robin said nothing.  His mind was busy with Mary's speech of the night before; his world lay
crumbled about him, and, like Cato, he was finding a certain melancholy satisfaction in its
ruins.  His thoughts were scarcely with his grandfather; he felt vaguely that there was Death
in the house and that its immediate presence was one of the things that had helped to bring
his self-content about his ears.  But it was of his father that he was thinking, and of a certain
morning when he had refused a walk.  If he got a chance again!

Clare looked wretched.  Robin thought that she had never seemed so ill before; there was, for
the first time, an air of carelessness about her, as though she had flung on her clothes anyhow--something
utterly unlike her.

"I am going to speak to Harry this morning," she said.

Garrett looked up peevishly.  "Scarcely the time, Clare.  I should say that it were better
for us to wait until--well, afterwards.  There is, perhaps, something a little indecent----"

"I have considered the matter carefully," interrupted Clare decisively. "This is the best time----"

"Oh, well, of course.  Only I should have thought that I might have had just a little say in
the matter.  I was, after all, originally consulted as well as yourself.  I saw the girl, and
was even, I might venture to suggest, with her for some time.  But, of course, a mere man's
opinion----"

"Oh, don't be absurd, Garrett.  It is I that have to ask him--it is pretty obvious that I have
every right to choose my own time."

"Oh!  Please, don't let me interfere--only I should scarcely have thought that this was quite
the moment when Harry would be most inclined to listen to you."

"If we don't ask him now," she answered, "there's no knowing when we shall have the opportunity.
When poor father is gone he will have a great deal to settle and decide; he will have no time
for anything at all for months ahead.  This morning is our last chance."

But she had another thought.  Her great desire now was that he should try and fail; that he
would fail she was sure.  She was eagerly impatient for that day when he must come to them
and admit his failure. She looked ahead and fashioned that scene for herself--that scene when
Robin should know and confess that his father was only as the rest of them; that their failure
was his failure, their incapacity his incapacity--and then the balance would be restored and
Robin would see as he had seen before.

"Coffee, Robin?  It's quite hot still.  I saw Dr. Brady just now.  He says that there is no
change, nor is there likely to be one for some hours.  You're looking tired, Robin, old boy.
Have you been sleeping on the floor, too?"

"No!"  He looked up and smiled.  "But I was awake a good bit.  The house is different somehow,
when----"

"Oh yes, I know.  One feels it, of course.  But eating's much the best thing for keeping one's
spirits up.  I suppose Harry is coming down. Just find out from Benham, will you, Wilder, whether
Mr. Henry is coming down?"

The footman left the room, returning in a moment with the answer that Mr. Henry was about to
come down.

Garrett moved to the door, but Clare stopped him.

"I want you, Garrett--you can bear me out!"

"I thought that my opinion was of so little importance," he answered sulkily, "that I might
as well go."

But he sat down again and buried himself in his paper.

They waited, and Robin made mental comparisons with a similar scene a week before; there were
still the silver teapot, the toast, the ham--they were all there, and it was only he himself
who had altered. Only a week, and what a difference!  What a cad he had been! a howling cad!
Not only to his father, but to Dahlia, to every one with whom he had had to do.  He did not
spare himself; he had at least the pluck to go through with it--that was Trojan.

At Harry's entrance there was an involuntary raising of eyebrows to see, if possible, how he
took it; it being his own immediate succession rather than his father's death.  He was grave,
of course, but there was a light in his eyes that Clare could not understand.  Had he some
premonition of her request?  He apologised for being late.

"I have been up most of the night.  There is no immediate danger of a change, but we ought,
I think, to be ready.  Yes, the toast, Robin, please--I hope you've slept all right, Clare?"

How quickly he had picked up the manner, she reflected, as she watched him!  But of course
that was natural enough; once a Trojan, always a Trojan, and no amount of colonies will do
away with it.  But three weeks was a short time for so vast a change.

"No, Harry, not very well--of course, it weighs on one rather."

She sighed and rose from the breakfast-table; she looked terribly tired and Harry was suddenly
sorry for her, and, for the first time since the night of his return, felt that they were brother
and sister; but after the adventure of the early morning it was as though he were related to
the whole world--Love and Death had drawn close to him, and, with the sound of the beating
of their wings, the world had revealed things to him that had, in other days, been secrets.
Love and Death were such big things that his personal relations with Clare, with Garrett, even
with Robin, had assumed their true proportion.

"Clare, you're tired!" he said.  "I should go and lie down again.  You shall be told if anything
happens."

"No, thanks, Harry.  I wanted to ask you something--but, perhaps, first I ought to apologise
for some of the things that I said the other day. I said more than I meant to.  I am sorry--but
one forgets at times that one has no right to meddle in other people's affairs.  But now I--we--all
of us--want to ask you a favour----"

"Yes?" he said, looking up.

"Well, of course, this is scarcely the time.  But it is something that can hardly wait, and
you can decide about acting yourself----"

She paused.  It was the very hardest thing that she had ever had to do, and she would never
forget it to the day of her death.  But it was harder for Robin; he sat there with flaming
cheeks and his head hanging--he could not look at his father.

"It is to do with Robin--" Clare went on; "he was rather afraid to ask you about it himself,
because, of course, it is not a business of which he is very proud, and so he has asked me
to do it for him.  It is a girl--a Miss Feverel--whom he met at Cambridge and to whom he had
written letters, letters that gave the young woman some reasons to suppose that he was offering
her marriage.  He saw the matter more wisely after a time and naturally wished Miss Feverel
to restore the letters, but this she refused to do.  Both Garrett and myself have done what
we could and have, I am afraid, failed.  Miss Feverel is quite resolute--most obstinately so.
We are afraid that she may take steps that would be unpleasant to all of us--it is rather worrying
us, and we thought--it seemed--in short, I determined to ask you to help us.  With your wider
experience you will probably know the best way in which to deal with such a person."

Clare paused.  She had put it as drily as possible, but it was, nevertheless, humiliating.

There was a pause.

"I am scarcely surprised," said Harry, "that Robin is ashamed of the affair."

"Of course he is," answered Clare eagerly, "bitterly ashamed."

"I suppose you made love to--ah--Miss Feverel?" he said, turning directly to Robin.

"Yes," said Robin, lifting his head and facing his father.  As their eyes met the colour rushed
to his cheeks.

"It was a rotten thing to do," said Harry.

"I have been very much ashamed of myself," answered Robin.  "I would make Miss Feverel any
apology that is in my power, but there seems to be little that I can do."

Harry said no more.

"I am really sorry," said Clare at last, "to speak about a business like this just now--but
really there is no time to lose.  I am sure that you will do something to prevent trouble in
the Courts, and that is what Miss Feverel seems to threaten."

"What do you want me to do?" he asked.

"To see her--to see her and try and arrange some compromise----"

"I should have thought that Robin was the proper person----"

"He has tried and failed; she would not listen to him."

"Then I am afraid that she will not listen to me--a perfect stranger with no claims on her
interest."

"It is precisely that.  You will be able to put it on a business footing, because sentiment
does not enter into the question at all."

"Do you want me to help you, Robin?"

At the direct question Robin looked up again.  His father looked very stern and judicial. 
It was the schoolmaster rather than the parent, but, after all, what else could he expect?
So he said, quite simply--"Yes, father."

But at this moment there was an interruption.  With the hurried opening of the door there came
the sounds of agitated voices and steps in the passage--then Benham appeared.

"Sir Jeremy is worse, Mr. Henry.  The doctor thinks that, perhaps----"

Harry hurriedly left the room.  Absolute silence reigned.  The sudden arrival of the long-expected
crisis was terrifying.  They sat like statues, staring in front of them, and listening eagerly
to every sound.  The monotonous ticking of the clock on the mantelpiece was terrifying--the
clock on the wall by the door seemed to run a race. The "tick-tock" grew faster and faster--at
last it was as if both clocks were screaming aloud.

The room was filled with the clamour, and through it all they sat motionless and silent.

In a moment Harry had returned.  "All of you," he said quickly--"he would like to see you--I
am afraid----"

After that Robin was confused and saw nothing clearly.  As he crept tremblingly up the stairs
everything assumed gigantic and menacing shapes--the clock, the pot-pourri bowls, the window-curtains,
and the brass rods on the stairs.  In the room there was that grey half-light that seemed so
terrible, and the spurt and crackle of the fire seemed to fill the place with sounds.  He scarcely
saw his grandfather.  In the centre of the bed, something was lying; the eyes gleamed for a
moment in the light of the fire, the lips seemed to move.  But he did not realise that those
things were his grandfather whom he had known for so many years--in another hour he would be dead.

But the things that he saw were the shadows of the fire on the wall, the dancing in the air
of the only lock of hair that Dr. Brady possessed, the way that Clare's hands were folded as
she stood silently by the bed, Uncle Garrett's waistcoat-buttons that shot little sparks of
light into the room as he turned, ever so slightly, from side to side.

At a motion of the doctor's, he came forward to bid Sir Jeremy farewell.  As he bent over the
bed panic seized him--he did not see Sir Jeremy but something horrible, terrible, ghoulish--Death.
Then he saw the old man's eyes, and they were twinkling; then he knew that he was speaking
to him.  The words came with difficulty, but they were quite clear--

"You'll be a good man, Robin--but listen to your father--he knows--he'll show you how to be
a Trojan."

For a moment he held the wrinkled, shrivelled hand in his own, and then he stepped back.  Clare
bent down and kissed her father, and then kneeled down by the bed; Robin had a mad longing
to laugh as he saw his uncle and aunt kneeling there, their heads made enormous shadows on
the wall.

Harry also bent down and kissed his father; the old man held his hand and kept it--

"I've tried to be a fair man and a gentleman--I've not been a good one. But I've had some fun
and seen life--thank God, I was born a Trojan--so will the rest of you.  Harry, my boy, you're
all right--you'll do.  I'm going, but I don't regret anything--your sins are experience--and
the greatest sin of all is not having any."

His lips closed--as the fire flashed with the falling of a cavern of blazing coal his head
rolled back on to the pillow.

Suddenly he smiled--

"Dear old Harry!" he said, and then he died.

The shadows from the fire leapt and danced on the wall, and the kneeling figures by the bed
flung grotesque shapes over the dead man.

CHAPTER XV

It was five o'clock of the same day and Harry was asleep in front of his fire.  In the early
hours of the afternoon the strain under which he had been during the past week began to assert
itself, and every part of his body seemed to cry out for sleep.

His head was throbbing, his legs trembled, and strange lights and figures danced before his
eyes; he flung himself into a chair in his small study at the top of the West Tower and fell
asleep.

He had grown to love that room very dearly: the great stretch of the sea and the shining sand
with the grey bending hills hemming it in; that view was never the same, but with the passing
of every cloud held new colours like a bowl of shining glass.

The room was bare and simple--that had been his own wish; a photograph of his first wife hung
over the mantelpiece, a small sketch of Auckland Harbour, a rough drawing of the Terraces before
their destruction--these were all his pictures.

He had been trying to read since his return, and copies of "The Egoist" and some of Swinburne's
poetry lay on the table; but the first had seemed incomprehensible to him and the second indecent,
and he had abandoned them; but he had made one discovery, thanks to Bethel, Walt Whitman's
"Leaves of Grass"--it seemed to him the greatest book that he had ever read, the very voicing
of all his hopes and ideals and faith. Ah! that man knew!

Benham came in and drew the curtains.  He watched the sleeping man for a moment and nodded
his head.  He was the right sort, Mr. Harry!  He would do!--and the Watcher of the House stole
out again.

Harry slept on, a great, dreamless sleep, grey and formless as sleep of utter exhaustion always
is; then he suddenly woke to the dim twilight of the room, the orange glow of the dying fire,
and the distant striking of the hour--it was six o'clock!

As he lay back in his chair, dreamily, lazily watching the fire, his thoughts were of his father.
He had not known that he would regret him so intensely, but he saw now that the old man had
meant everything to him during those first weeks of his return.  He thought of him very tenderly--his
prejudices, his weaknesses, his traditions.  It was strange how alike they all were in reality,
the Trojans!  Sir Jeremy, Clare, Garrett, Robin, himself, the same bedrock of traditional pride
was there, it was only that circumstances had altered them superficially.  Three weeks ago
Clare and he had seemed worlds apart, now he saw how near they were!  But for that very reason,
they would never get on--he saw that quite clearly.  They knew too well the weak spots in each
other's armour, and their pride would be for ever at war.

He did not want to turn her out--she had been there for all those years and it was her home;
but he thought that she herself would prefer to go.  There was a charming place in Norfolk,
Wrexhall Pogis, that had been let for years, and there was quite a pleasant little place in
town, 3 Southwick Crescent--yes, she would probably prefer to go, even had he not meant to
marry Mary.  The announcement of that little affair would be something in the nature of a thunderbolt.

It was impossible for him to go--the head of the House must always live at "The Flutes."  But
he knew already how much that House was going to mean to him, and so he guessed how much it
must mean to Clare.

And to Robin?  What would Robin do?  Three weeks ago there could have been but one answer to
that question--he would have followed his aunt. Now Harry was not so sure.  There was this
affair of Miss Feverel; probably Robin would come to him about it and then they would be able
to talk.  He had had that very day a letter from Dahlia Feverel.  He looked at it again now;
it said:--

"DEAR MR. TROJAN--Mother and I are leaving Pendragon to-morrow--for ever, I suppose--but before
I go I thought that I should like to send you a little line to thank you for your kindness
to me.  That sounds terribly formal, doesn't it? but the gratitude is really there, and indeed
I am no letter-writer.

"You met a girl at the crisis in her life when there were two roads in front of her and you
helped her to choose the right one.  I daresay that you thought that you did very little--it
cannot have seemed very much, that short meeting that we had; but it made just the difference
to me and will, I know, be to me a white stone from which I shall date my new life.  I am not
a strong woman--I never shall be a strong woman--and it was partly because I thought that love
for Robin was going to give me that strength that it hurt so terribly when I found that the
love wasn't there.  The going of my love hurt every bit as much as the going of his--it had
been something to be proud of.

"I relied on sentiment and now I am going to rely on work; those are the only two alternatives
offered to women, and the latter is so often denied to them.

"I hope that it may, one day, give you pleasure to think that you once helped a girl to do
the strong thing instead of the weak one.  Of course, my love for Robin has died, and I see
him clearly now without exaggeration.  What happened was largely my fault--I spoilt him, I
think, and helped his self-pride.  I know that he has been passing through a bad time lately,
and I am sure that he will come to you to help him out of it.  He is a lucky fellow to have
some one to help him like that--and then he will suddenly see that he has done a rather cruel
thing.  Poor Robin! he will make a fine man one day.

"I have got a little secretaryship in London--nothing very big, but it will give me the work
that I want; and, because you once said that you believed in me, I will try to justify your
belief.  There! that is sentiment, isn't it!--and I have flung sentiment away.  Well, it is
the last time!

"Good-bye--I shall never forget.  Thank you.--

Yours sincerely,
  DAHLIA FEVEREL."

So perhaps, after all, Robin's mistakes had been for the good of all of them.  Mistake was,
indeed, a slight word for what he had done, and, thinking of it even now, Harry's anger rose.

And she had been a nice girl, too, and a plucky one.

He had answered her:--

"MY DEAR MISS FEVEREL--I was extremely pleased to get your letter.  It is very good of you
to speak as you have done about myself, but I assure you that what I did was of the smallest
importance.  It was because you had pluck yourself that you pulled through.  You are quite
right to fling away sentiment.  I came back to England three weeks ago longing to call every
man my brother.  I thought that by a mere smile, a bending of the finger, the world was my
friend for life.  I soon found my mistake.  Friendship is a very slow and gradual affair, and
I distrust the mushroom growth profoundly.  Life isn't easy in that kind of way; you and I
have found that out together.

"I wish you every success in your new life; I have no doubt whatever that you will get on,
and I hope that you will let me hear sometimes from you.

"Things have been happening quickly during the last few days.  My father died this morning;
he was himself glad to go, but I shall miss him terribly--he has been a most splendid friend
to me during these weeks.  Then I know that you will be interested to hear that I am engaged
to Miss Bethel--you know her, do you not?  I hope and believe that we shall be very happy.

"As to Robin, he has, as you say, been having a bad time.  To do him justice it has not been
only the fear of the letters that has hung over him--he has also discovered a good many things
about himself that have hurt and surprised him.

"Well, good-bye--I am sure that you will look back on the Robin episode with gratitude.  It
has done a great deal for all of us.  Good luck to you!--Always your friend,

HENRY TROJAN."

He turned on the lights in his room and tried to read, but he found that that was impossible.
His eyes wandered off the page and he listened: he caught himself again and again straining
his ears for a sound.  He pictured the coming of steps up the stairs and then sharp and loud
along the passage--then a pause and a knock on his door. Often he fancied that he heard it,
but it was only fancy and he turned away disappointed; but he was sure that Robin would come.

They had decided not to dine downstairs together on that evening--they were, all of them, overwrought
and the situation was strained; they were wondering what he was going to do.  There were, of
course, a thousand things to be done, but he was glad that they had left him alone for that
night at any rate.  He wanted to be quiet.

He had written a letter of enormous length to Mary, explaining to her what had happened and
telling her that he would come to her in the morning.  It was very hard, even then, not to
rush down to her, but he felt that he must keep that day at least sacred to his father.

Would Robin come?  It was quarter to seven and that terrible sleep was beginning to overcome
him again.  The fire, the walls, the pictures, danced before his eyes ... the stories of the
fishermen in the Cove came back to him ... the Four Stones and the man who had lost his way
... the red tiles and the black rafters of "The Bended Thumb" ... and then Mary's beauty above
it all.  Mary on the moors with the wind blowing through her hair; Mary in the house with the
firelight on her face, Mary ... and then he suddenly started up, wide awake, for he heard steps
on the stair.

He knew them at once--he never doubted that they were Robin's.  The last two steps were taken
slowly and with hesitation.

Then he hurried down the passage as though he had suddenly made up his mind; then, again, there
was a long pause before the door.  At last came the knock, timidly, and then another loudly
and almost violently.

Harry shouted "Come in," and Robin entered, his face pale and his hands twisting and untwisting.

"Ah, Robin--do you want anything?  Come in--sit down.  I've been asleep."

"Oh, I'm sorry, did I wake you up?  No, thanks, I won't sit down.  I've got some things I want
to say.  I'd rather say them standing up."

There was a long pause.  Harry said nothing and stared into the fire.

"I've got a good lot to say altogether."  Robin cleared his throat. "It's rather hard.  Perhaps
this doesn't seem quite the time--after grandfather--and--everything--but I couldn't wait very
well.  I've been a bit uncomfortable."

"Out with it," said Harry.  "This time will do excellently--there's a pause just now, but to-morrow
everything will begin again and there's a terrible lot to do.  What is it?"

Was it, he wondered, Robin's fault or his own that there was that barrier so strangely defined
between them even now?  He could feel it there in the room with them now.  He wondered whether
Robin felt it as well.

"It is about what my aunt said to you this morning--and other things--other things right from
the beginning, ever since you came back.  I'm not much of a chap at talking, and probably I
shan't say what I mean, but I will try.  I've been thinking about it all lately, but what made
me come and speak to you was this morning--having to ask you a favour after being so rude to
you.  A chap doesn't like doing that, and it made me think--besides there being other things."

"Oh, there's no need to thank me about this morning," Harry said drily; "I shall be very pleased
to do what I can."

"Oh, it isn't that," Robin said quickly.  "It isn't about that somehow that I mind at all now;
I have been worrying about it a good bit, but that isn't what I want to speak about.  I'll
go through with it--Breach of Promise--or whatever it is--if only you wouldn't think me--well,
quite an utter rotter."

"I wish," said Harry quietly, "that you would sit down.  I'm sure that you would find it easier
to talk."

Robin looked at him for a moment and then at the chair--then he sat down.

"You see, somehow grandfather's dying has made things seem different to one--it has made one
younger somehow.  I used to think that I was really very old and knew a lot; but his death
has shown me that I know nothing at all--really nothing.  But there have been a lot of things
all happening together--your coming back, that business with Dahlia--Miss Feverel, you know--a
dressing down that I got from Miss Bethel the other evening, and then grandfather's dying----"

He paused again and cleared his throat.  He looked straight into the fire, and, every now and
again, he gave a little choke and a gasp which showed that he was moved.

"A chap doesn't like talking about himself," he went on at last; "no decent chap does; but
unless I tell you everything from the beginning it will never be clear--I must tell you everything----"

"Please--I want to hear."

"Well, you see, before you came back, I suppose that I had really lots of side.  I never used
to think that I had, but I see now that what Mary said the other night was perfectly right--it
wasn't only that I 'sided' about myself, but about my set and my people and everything. And
then you came back.  You see we didn't any of us very much think that we wanted you.  To begin
with, you weren't exactly like my governor; not having seen you all my life I hadn't thought
much about you at all, and your letters were so unlike anything that I knew that I hadn't believed
them exactly.  We were very happy as we were.  I thought that I had everything I wanted.  And
then you didn't do things as we did; you didn't like the same books and pictures or anything,
and I was angry because I thought that I must know about those things and I couldn't understand
you.  And then you know you made things worse by trying to force my liking out of me, and chaps
of my sort are awfully afraid of showing their feelings to any one, least of all to a man----"
Robin paused.

"Yes," said Harry, "I know."

"But all this isn't an excuse really; I was a most awful cad, and there's no getting away from
it.  But I think I began to see almost from the very beginning that I hadn't any right to behave
like that, but I was obstinate.

"And then I began to get in a fright about Miss Feverel.  She wouldn't give my letters back,
although I went to her and Uncle Garrett and Aunt Clare--all of us--but it was no good--she
meant to keep them and of course we knew why.  And then, too, I saw at last that I'd behaved
like an utter cad--it was funny I didn't see it at the time.  But I'd seen other chaps do the
same sort of thing and the girls didn't mind, and I'd thought that she ought to be jolly pleased
at getting to know a Trojan--and all that sort of thing.

"But when I saw that she wasn't going to give the letters back but meant to use them I was
terribly frightened.  It wasn't myself so much, although I hated the idea of my friends knowing
about it all and laughing at me--but it was the House too--my letting it down so.

"I'd been thinking about you a good bit already.  You see you changed after Aunt Clare spoke
to you that morning and I began to be rather afraid of you--and when a chap begins to be afraid
of some one he begins to like him.  I got Aunt Clare and Uncle Garrett to go and speak to Dahlia,
and they couldn't get anything out of her at all; so, then, I began to wonder whether you could
do anything, and as soon as I began to wonder that I began to want to talk to you.  But I never
got much chance; you were always in grandfather's room, and you didn't give me much encouragement,
did you? and then--I began to be awfully miserable. I don't want to whine--I deserved it all
right enough--but I didn't seem to have a friend anywhere and all my things that I'd believed
in seemed to be worth nothing at all.  Then I wanted to talk to you awfully, and when grandfather
was worse and was dying I began to see things straight--and then I saw Mary and she told me
right out what I was, and I saw it all as clear as daylight.

"And so; well, I've come--not to ask you to help me about Dahlia--but whether you'll help me
to play the game better.  I wasn't always slack and rotten like I am now.  When I was in Germany
I thought I was going to do all sorts of things ... but anyhow I can't say exactly all that
I mean.  Only I'm awfully lonely and terribly ashamed; and I want you to forgive me for being
so beastly to you----"

He looked wretched enough as he sat there facing the fire with his lip quivering.  He made
a strong effort to control himself, but in a moment he had broken down altogether and hid his
head in the arm of the chair, sobbing as if his heart would break.

Harry waited.  The moment for which he had longed so passionately had come at last; all those
weary weeks had now received their reward.  But he was very tired and he could not remember
anything except that his boy was there and that he was crying and wanted some one to help him--which
was very sentimental.

He got up from his chair and put his hand on Robin's shoulder.

"Robin, old boy--don't; it's all right really.  I've been waiting for you to come and speak
to me; of course, I knew that you would come. Never mind about those other things--we're going
to have a splendid time, you and I."

He put his arm round him.  There was a moment's silence, then the boy turned round and gripped
his father's coat--then he buried his head in his father's knees.

Benham entered half an hour later with Harry's evening meal.

"I will have mine here, too, Benham," said Robin, "with my father."

"There is one thing, Robin," said Harry a little later, laughing--"what about the letters?"

"Oh, I know!"  Robin looked up at his father appealingly.  "I don't know what you must think
of me over that business.  But I suppose I believed for a time in it all, and then when I saw
that it wouldn't do I just wanted to get out of it as quickly as I could.  I never seem to
have thought about it at all--and now I'm more ashamed than I can say. But I think I'll go
through with it; I don't see that there's anything else very much for me to do, any other way
of making up--I think I'd rather face it."

"Would you?" said Harry.  "What about your friends and the House?"

Robin flinched for a moment; then he said resolutely, "Yes, it would be better for them too.
You see they know already--the House, I mean. All the chaps in the dining-hall and the picture-gallery,
they've known about it all day, and I know that they'd rather I didn't back out of it.  Besides--"
he hesitated a moment.  "There's another thing--I have the kind of feeling that I can't have
hurt Dahlia so very much if she's the kind of girl to carry that sort of thing through; if,
I mean, she takes it like that she isn't the sort of girl that would mind very much what I
had done----"

"Is she," said Harry, "that sort of girl?"

"No, I don't think she is.  That's what's puzzled me about it all.  She was worth twenty of
me really.  But any decent sort of girl would have given them back----"

"She has----"

"What?"

"Given them back."

"The letters?"

Harry went to his writing-table and produced the bundle.  They lay in his hand with the blue
ribbon and the neat handwriting, "For Robert Trojan," outside.

Robin stared.  "Not the letters?"

"Yes--the letters; I have had them some days."

But still he did not move.  "You've had them?--several days?"

"Yes.  I went to see Miss Feverel on my own account and she gave me them----"

"You had them when we asked you to help us!"

"Yes--of course.  It was a little secret of my own and Miss Feverel's--our--if you like--revenge."

"And we've been laughing at you, scorning you; and we tried--all of us--and could do nothing!
I say, you're the cleverest man in England! Score!  Why I should think you have!" and then
he added, "But I'm ashamed--terribly.  You have known all these days and said nothing--and
I!  I wonder what you've thought of me----"

He took the letters into his hand and undid the ribbon slowly.  "I'm jolly glad you've known--it's
as if you'd been looking after the family all this time, while we were plunging around in the
dark.  What a score!  That we should have failed and you so absolutely succeeded--" Then again,
"But I'm jolly ashamed--I'll tell you everything--always. We'll work together----"

He looked them through and then flung them into the fire.

"I've grown up," he suddenly cried; "come of age at last--at last I know."

"Not too fast," said Harry, smiling; "it's only a stage.  There's plenty to learn--and we'll
learn it together."  Then, after a pause, "There's another thing, though, that will astonish
you a bit--I'm engaged----"

"Engaged!" Robin stared.  Quickly before his eyes passed visions of terrible Colonial women--some
entanglement that his father had contracted abroad and had been afraid to announce before.
Well, whatever it might be, he would stand by him!  It was they two against the world whatever
happened!--and Robin felt already the anticipatory glow of self-sacrificing heroism.

Harry smiled.  "Yes--Mary Bethel!"

"Mary!  Hurrah!"

He rushed at his father and seized his hand--"You and Mary!  Why, it's simply splendid!  The
very thing--I'd rather it were she than any one!--she told me what she thought of me the other
night, I can tell you--fairly went for me.  By Jove!  I'm glad--we'll have some times, three
of us here together.  When was it?"

"Oh! only this morning!  I had asked her before, but it was only settled this morning."

Then Robin was suddenly grave.  "Oh! but, I say, there's Aunt Clare--and Uncle Garrett!"  He
had utterly forgotten them.  What would they say?  The Bethels of all people!

"Yes.  I've thought about it.  I'm very sorry, but I'm afraid Aunt Clare won't want to stay.
I don't see what's to be done.  I haven't told her yet----"

Robin saw at once that he must choose his future; it was to be his aunt or his father.  His
aunt with all those twenty years of faithful service behind her, his aunt who had done everything
for him--or his father whom he had known for three weeks.  But he had no hesitation; there
was now no question it was his father for ever against the world!

"I'm sorry," he said slowly.  "Perhaps there will be some arrangement. Poor Aunt Clare!  Did
you--tell grandfather?"

"No.  I wanted to, but I had no opportunity.  But he knows--I am sure that he knows."

Their thoughts passed to the old man.  It was almost as if he had been there in the room with
them, and they felt, curiously, as though he had at that moment handed over the keys of the
House.  For an instant they saw him; his eyes like diamonds, his wrinkled cheeks, his crooked
fingers--and then his laugh.  "Harry, my boy, you'll do."

"It's almost as if he was here," said Robin.  He turned round and put his hand in his father's.

"I know he's pleased," he said.

And so it was during the next week, through the funeral, and the gathering of relatives and
the gradual dispersing of them again, and the final inevitable seclusion when the world and
the relations and the dead had all joined in leaving the family alone.  The gathering of Trojans
had shown, beyond a doubt, that Harry was quite fitted to take his place at the head of the
family.  He had acted throughout with perfect tact and everything had gone without a hitch.
Many a Trojan had arrived for the funeral--mournful, red-eyed Trojans, with black crape and
an air of deferential resignation that hinted, also, at curiosity as regards the successor.
They watched Harry, ready for anything that might gratify their longing for sensational failure;
a man from the backwoods was certain to fail, and their chagrined disappointment was only solaced
by their certainty of some little sensation in the announcement of his surprising success.

Of course, Clare had been useful; it was on such an occasion that she appeared at her best.
She was kind to them all, but at the same time impressed the dignity of her position upon them,
so that they went away declaring that Clare Trojan knew how to carry herself and was young
for her years.

The funeral was an occasion of great ceremony, and the town attended in crowds.  Harry realised
in their altered demeanour to himself their appreciation of the value of his succession, and
he knew that Sir Henry Trojan was something very different from the plain Harry.  But he had,
from the beginning, taken matters very quietly.  Now that he was assured of the affection of
the only two people who were of importance to him he could afford to treat with easy acquiescence
anything else that Fate might have in store for him.  His diffidence, had, to some extent,
left him, and he took everything that came with an ease that had been entirely foreign to him
three weeks before.

Clare might indeed wonder at the change in him, for she had not the key that unlocked the mystery.
The week seemed to draw father and son very closely together.  Years seemed to have made little
difference in their outlook on things, and in some ways Robin was the elder of the two. They
said nothing about Mary--that was to wait until after the funeral; but the consciousness of
their secret added to the bond between them.

Clare herself regarded the future complacently.  She was, she felt, absolutely essential to
the right ruling of the House, and she intended, gradually but surely, to restore her command
above and below stairs.  The only possible lion in her path was Harry's marrying, but of that
there seemed no fear at all.

She admired him a little for his conduct during their father's funeral; he was not such an
oaf as she had thought--but she would bide her time.

At last, however, the thunderbolt fell.  It was a week after the funeral, and they had reached
dessert.  Clare sometimes stayed with them while they smoked, and, as a rule, conversation
was not very general.  To-night, however, she rose to go.  Her black suited her; her dark hair,
her dark eyes, the dark trailing clouds of her dress--it was magnificently sombre against the
firelight and the shine of the electric lamps on the silver.  But Harry's "Wait a moment, Clare,
I want to talk," called her back, and she stood by the door looking over her shoulder at him.

Then when she saw from his glance that it was a matter of importance, she came back slowly
again towards him.

"Another family council?" said Garrett rather impatiently.  "We have had a generous supply lately."

"I'm afraid this is imperative," said Harry.  "I am sorry to bother you, Clare, but this seems
to me the best time."

"Oh, any time suits me," she said indifferently, sitting down reluctantly.  "But if it's household
affairs, I should think that we need hardly keep Garrett and Robin."

"It is something that concerns us all four," said Harry.  "I am going to be married!"

It had been from the beginning of things a Trojan dictum that the revealing of emotion was
the worst of gaucheries--Clare, Garrett, and Robin himself had been schooled in this matter
from their respective cradles; and now the lesson must be put into practice.

For Robin, of course, it was no revelation at all, but he dared not look at his aunt; he understood
a little what it must mean to her.  To those that watched her, however, nothing was revealed.
She stood by the fire, her hands at her side, her head slightly turned towards her brother.

"Might I ask," she said quietly, "the name of the fortunate lady?"

"Miss Bethel!"

"Miss Bethel!"  Garrett sprang to his feet.  "Harry, you must be joking!  You can't mean it!
Not the daughter of Bethel at the Point--the madman!--the----"

"Please, Garrett," said Harry, "remember that she has promised to be my wife.  I am sorry,
Clare----"

He turned round to his sister.

But she had said nothing.  She pulled a chair from the table and sat down, quietly, without
obvious emotion.

"It is a little unexpected," she said.  "But really if we had considered things it was obvious
enough.  It is all of a piece.  Robin tried for Breach of Promise, the Bethels in the house
before father has been buried for three days--the policy and traditions of the last three hundred
years upset in three weeks."

"Of course," said Harry, "I could scarcely expect you to welcome the change.  You do not know
Miss Bethel.  I am afraid you are a little prejudiced against her.  And, indeed, please--please,
believe me that it has been my very last wish to go counter in any way to your own plans. 
But it has seemed almost unavoidable; we have found that one thing after another has arisen
about which we could not agree.  Is it too late now to reconsider the position?  Couldn't we
pull together from this moment?"

But she interrupted him.  "Come, Harry," she said, "whatever we are, let us avoid hypocrisy.
You have beaten me at every point and I must retire.  I have seen in three weeks everything
that I had cared for and loved destroyed.  You come back a stranger, and without knowing or
caring for the proper dignity of the House, you have done what you pleased.  Finally, you are
bringing a woman into the House whose parents are beggars, whose social position makes her
unworthy of such a marriage.  You cannot expect me to love you for it.  From this moment we
cease to exist for each other.  I hope that I may never see you again or hear from you.  I
shall not indulge in heroics or melodrama, but I will never forgive you.  I suppose that the
house at Norfolk is at my disposal?"

"Certainly," he answered.  Then he turned to his brother.  "I hope, Garrett," he said, "that
you do not feel as strongly about the matter as Clare.  I should be very glad if you found
it possible to remain."

That gentleman was in a difficult position; he changed colour and tried to avoid his sister's
eyes.  After a rapid survey of the position, he had come to the conclusion that he would not
be nearly as comfortable in Norfolk--he could not write his book as easily, and the house had
scarcely the same position of importance.  He had grown fond of the place.  Harry, after all,
was not a bad chap--he seemed very anxious to be pleasant; and even Mary Bethel mightn't turn
out so badly.

"You see, Clare," he said slowly, "there is the book--and--well, on the whole, I think it would
be almost better if I remained; it is not, of course, that----"

Clare's lip curled scornfully.

"I understand, Garrett, you could scarcely be expected to leave such comforts for so slight
a reason.  And you, Robin?"

She held the chair with her hand as she spoke.  The fury at her heart was such that she could
scarcely breathe; she was quite calm, but she had a mad desire to seize Harry as he sat there
at the table and strangle him with her hands.  And Garrett!--the contemptible coward! But if
only Robin would come with her, then the rest mattered little. After all, it had only been
a fortnight ago when he had stood at her side and rejected his father.  The scene now was parallel--her
voice grew soft and trembled a little as she spoke to him.

"Robin, dear, what will you do?  Will you come with me?"

For a moment father and son looked at each other, then Robin answered--

"I shall be very glad to come and stay sometimes, Aunt Clare--often--whenever you care to have
me.  But I think that I must stay here.  I have been talking to father and I am going up to
London to try, I think, for the Diplomatic.  We thought----"

But the "we" was too much for her.

"I congratulate you," she said, turning to Harry.  "You have done a great deal in three weeks.
It looks," she said, looking round the room, "almost like a conspiracy.  I----"  Then she suddenly
broke down. She bent down over Robin and caught his head between her hands--

"Robin--Robin dear--you must come, you must, dear.  I brought you up--I have loved you--always--always.
You can't leave me now, old boy, after all that I have done--all, everything.  Why, he has
done nothing--he----"

She kissed him again and again, and caught his hands: "Robin, I love you--you--only in all
the world; you are all that I have got----"

But he put her hands gently aside.  "Please--please--Aunt Clare, I am dreadfully sorry----"

And then her pride returned to her.  She walked to the door with her head high.

"I will go to the Darcy's in London until that other house is ready.  I will go to-morrow----"

She opened the door, but Harry sprang up--

"Please, Clare--don't go like that.  Think over it--perhaps to-morrow----"

"Oh, let me go," she answered wearily; "I'm tired."

She walked up the stairs to her room.  She could scarcely see--Robin had denied her!

She shut the door of her bedroom behind her and fell at the foot of her bed, her face buried
in her hands.  Then at last she burst into a storm of tears--

"Robin!  Robin!" she cried.

CHAPTER XVI

It was Christmas Eve and the Cove lay buried in snow.  The sea was grey like steel, and made
no sound as it ebbed and flowed up the little creek.  The sky was grey and snowflakes fell
lazily, idly, as though half afraid to let themselves go; a tiny orange moon glittered over
the chimneys of "The Bended Thumb."

Harry came out of the Inn and stood for a moment to turn up the collar of his coat.  The perfect
stillness of the scene pleased him; the world was like the breathless moment before some great
event: the opening of Pandora's box, the leaping of armed men from the belly of the wooden
horse, the flashing of Excalibur over the mere, the birth of some little child.

He sighed as he passed down the street.  He had read in his morning paper that the Cove was
doomed.  The word had gone forth, the Town Council had decided; the Cove was to be pulled down
and a street of lodging-houses was to take its place.  Pendragon would be no longer a place
of contrasts; it would be all of a piece, a completely popular watering-place.

The vision of its passing hurt him--so much must go with it; and gradually he saw the beauty
and the superstition and the wonder being driven from the world--the Old World--and a hard
Iron and Steel Materialism relentlessly taking its place.

But he himself had changed; the place had had its influence on him, and he was beginning to
see the beauty of these improvements, these manufactures, these hard straight lines and gaunt
ugly squares. Progress?  Progress?  Inevitable?--yes!  Useful?--why, yes, too!  But beautiful?--Well,
perhaps ... he did not know.

At the top of the hill he turned and saluted the cold grey sky and sea and moor.  The Four
Stones were in harmony to-day: white, and pearl-grey, with hints of purple in their shadows--oh
beautiful and mysterious world!

He went into the Bethels' to call for Mary.  Bethel appeared for a moment at the door of his
study and shouted--

"Hullo!  Harry, my boy!  Frightfully busy cataloguing!  Going out for a run in a minute!"--the
door closed.

His daughter's engagement seemed to have made little difference to him. He was pleased, of
course, but Harry wondered sometimes whether he realised it at all.

Not so Mrs. Bethel.  Arrayed in gorgeous colours, she was blissfully happy.  She was at the
head of the stairs now.

"Just a minute, Harry--Mary's nearly ready.  Oh! my dear, you haven't been out in that thin
waistcoat ... but you'll catch your death--just a minute, my dear, and let me get something
warmer?  Oh do!  Now you're an obstinate, bad man!  Yes, a bad, bad man"--but at this moment
arrived Mary, and they said good-bye and were away.

During the few weeks that they had been together there had been no cloud.  Pendragon had talked,
but they had not listened to it; they had been perfectly, ideally happy.  They seemed to have
known each other completely so long ago--not only their virtues but their faults and failures.

With her arm in his they passed through the gate and found Robin waiting for them.

"Hullo! you two!  I've just heard from Macfadden.  He suggests Catis in Dover Street for six
months and then abroad.  He thinks I ought to pass easily enough in a year's time--and then
it will mean Germany!"

His face was lighted with excitement.

"Right you are!" cried Harry.  "Anything that Macfadden suggests is sure to be pretty right.
What do you say, Mary?"

"Oh, I don't know anything about men's businesses," she said, laughing. "Only don't be too
long away, Robin."

They passed down the garden, the three of them, together.

In Norfolk a woman sat at her window and watched the snow tumbling softly against the panes.
The garden was a white sea--the hills loomed whitely beyond--the sky was grey with small white
clouds, hanging like pillows heavily in mid-air.

The snow whirled and tossed and danced.

Clare turned slowly from the windows and drew down the blinds.