It should be stated, first of all, that one of the greatest pleasures of Madame Bonaparte,
at Malmaison, was to take walks on the road just outside the walls of the park; and she always
preferred this outside road, in spite of the clouds of dust which were constantly rising there,
to the delightful walks inside the park.  One day, accompanied by her daughter Hortense, she
told Carrat to follow her in her walk; and he was delighted to be thus honored until he saw
rise suddenly out of a ditch; a great figure covered with a white sheet, in fact, a genuine
ghost, such as I have seen described in the translations of some old English romances.

It is unnecessary to say, that the ghost was some one placed there by order of these ladies,
in order to frighten Carrat; and certainly the comedy succeeded marvelously well, for as soon
as Carrat perceived the ghost, he was very much frightened, and clutching Madame Bonaparte,
said to her in a tremor, "Madame, Madame, do you see that ghost?  It is the spirit of the lady
who died lately at Plombieres."--"Be quiet, Carrat, you are a coward."--"Ah, but indeed it
is her spirit which has come back."  As Carrat thus spoke, the man in the white sheet advanced
toward him, shaking it; and poor Carrat, overcome with terror, fell backwards in a faint, and
it required all the attentions which were bestowed upon him to restore him to consciousness.

Another day, while the general was still in Egypt, and consequently before I was in the service
of any member of his family, Madame Bonaparte wished to give some of her ladies an exhibition
of Carrat's cowardice; and for this purpose there was concerted among the ladies of Malmaison
a plot, in which Mademoiselle Hortense

     [Hortense Beauharnais, born at Paris, 1783, was then just sixteen
     years of age.  Married Louis Bonaparte and became Queen of Holland,
     1806.  Died 1837.  She was the mother of Napoleon III. --TRANS.]

was chief conspirator.  This incident has been so often narrated in my presence by Madame Bonaparte,
that I am familiar with the ludicrous details.  Carrat slept in a room adjoining which there
was a closet. A hole was made in the wall between these rooms, and a string passed through,
at the end of which was tied a can filled with water, this cooling element being suspended
exactly over the head of the patient's bed.  This was not all, for they had also taken the
precaution to remove the slats which supported the mattress; and as Carrat was in the habit
of going to sleep without a light, he saw neither the preparations for his downfall, nor the
can of water provided for his new baptism.  All the members of the plot had been waiting for
some moments in the adjoining closet; when he threw himself heavily upon his bed, it crashed
in, and at the same instant the play of the string made the can of water do its effective work.
The victim at the same time of a fall, and of a nocturnal shower-bath, Carrat cried out against
his double misfortune. "This is horrible," he yelled at the top of his voice; while Hortense
maliciously said aloud to her mother, Madame de Crigny (afterwards Madame Denon), Madame Charvet,
and to several others in the room, "Oh, Mamma, those toads and frogs in the water will get
on him."  These words, joined to the utter darkness, served only to increase the terror of
Carrat, who, becoming seriously frightened, cried out, "It is horrible, Madame, it is horrible,
to amuse yourself thus at the expense of your servants."

I do not say that the complaints of Carrat were entirely wrong, but they. served only to increase
the gayety of the ladies who had taken him for the object of their pleasantries.

However that may be, such was the character and position of Carrat, whom I had known for some
time, when General Bonaparte returned from his expedition into Egypt, and Carrat said to me
that Eugene de Beauharnais had applied to him for a confidential valet, his own having been
detained in Cairo by severe illness at the time of his departure.  He was named Lefebvre, and
was an old servant entirely devoted to his master, as was every one who knew Prince Eugene;
for I do not believe that there has ever lived a better man, or one more polite, more considerate,
or indeed more attentive, to those who served him.

Carrat having told me that Eugene de Beauharnais

     [Born 1781, viceroy of Italy 1805.  In 1806 married the daughter
     of the King of Bavaria.  Died 1824.  Among his descendants are the
     present King of Sweden and the late Emperor of Brazil.--TRANS.]

desired a young man to replace Lefebvre, and having recommended me for the place, I had the
good fortune to be presented to Eugene, and to give satisfaction; indeed, he was so kind as
to say to me that my appearance pleased him, and he wished me to enter upon my duties immediately.
I was delighted with this situation, which, I know not why, painted itself to my imagination
in the brightest colors, and without loss of time, went to find my modest baggage, and behold
me valet de chambre, ad interim, of M. de Beauharnais, not dreaming that I should one day be
admitted to the personal service of General Bonaparte, and still less that I should become
the chief valet of an Emperor.

CHAPTER II.

It was on Oct. 16, 1799, that Eugene de Beauharnais arrived in Paris on his return from Egypt;
and almost immediately thereafter I had the good fortune to be taken into his service, M. Eugene
being then twenty-one years of age.  I soon after learned a few particulars, which I think
are little known, relative to his former life, and the marriage of his mother with General
Bonaparte.

His father, as is well known, was one of the victims of the Revolution; and when the Marquis
de Beauharnais had perished on the scaffold, his widow, whose property had been confiscated,
fearing that her son, although still very young, might also be in danger on account of his
belonging to the nobility, placed him in the home of a carpenter on the rue de l'Echelle where,
a lady of my acquaintance, who lived on that street, has often seen him passing, carrying a
plank on his shoulder.  It seems a long distance from this position to the colonelcy of a regiment
of the Consular guards, and the vice-royalty of Italy.

I learned, from hearing Eugene himself relate it, by what a singular circumstance he had been
the cause of the first meeting between his mother and his step-father.  Eugene, being then
not more than fourteen or fifteen years of age, having been informed that General Bonaparte
had become possessor of the sword of the Marquis de Beauharnais, took a step which seemed hazardous,
but was crowned with success.  The general having received him graciously, Eugene explained
that he came to beg of him the restoration of his father's sword.  His face, his bearing, his
frank request, all made such a pleasant impression on Bonaparte, that he immediately presented
him with the sword which he requested.  As soon as this sword was in his hands he covered it
with kisses and tears; and the whole was done in so artless a manner, that Bonaparte was delighted
with him.

Madame de Beauharnais, being informed of the welcome the general had given her son, thought
it her duty to make him a visit of gratitude. Bonaparte, being much pleased with Josephine
in this first interview, returned her visit.  They met again frequently; and as is well known,
one event led to another, until she became the first Empress of the French; and I can assert
from the numerous proofs that I have had of this fact, that Bonaparte never ceased to love
Eugene as well as if he, had been his own son.

