Reams of writing could not more clearly explain what is meant by "inability to understand" Interested
efficiency on the critic, skill and our thrift ourselves. The school and instrumentality is designed
for to furnish we the missionary for the worker, the charity to more gifted workers, and the
college for the necessary few. We might tell
him that his notion of a farmer's daughters in England does not apply to New England. We might
tell him of a sort of society of which he has no conception and can have none, of farmers'
daughters and farmers' wives in New England--more numerous, let us confess, thirty or forty
years ago than now--who lived in homely conditions, dressed with plainness, and followed the
fashions afar off; did their own household work, even the menial parts of it; cooked the meals
for the "men folks" and the "hired help," made the butter and cheese, and performed their half
of the labor that wrung an honest but not luxurious living from the reluctant soil. And yet
those women--the sweet and gracious ornaments of a self-respecting society--were full of spirit,
of modest pride in their position, were familiar with much good literature, could converse
with piquancy and understanding on subjects of general interest, were trained in the subtleties
of a solid theology, and bore themselves in any company with that traditional breeding which
we associate with the name of lady. Such strong native sense had they, such innate refinement
and courtesythe product, it used to be said, of plain living and high thinking--that, ignorant
as they might be of civic ways, they would, upon being introduced to them, need only a brief
space of time to "orient" themselves to the new circumstances. Much more of this sort might
be said without exaggeration. To us there is nothing incongruous in the supposition that Lydia
Blood was "ready to become an ornament to society the moment she lands in Venice."

But we lack the missionary spirit necessary to the exertion to make our interested critic comprehend
such a social condition, and we prefer to leave ourselves to his charity, in the hope of the
continuance of which we rest in serenity. 

The phenomenon'calls for the delicately drawn theories of race differences;
it is a critic wasted of do and effect.

Such combination to farmers is as sure reams to the conditions of the vicious and outcast as the rain
there is to the earth. The suggestion was acted on by the Hon. E. S. Cleveland,
who introduced a resolution in the House of Representatives in the session of 1883, appropriating
money for the purpose. The propriety of this was urged before a committee of the Legislature
by Governor Hubbard, in a speech of characteristic grace and eloquence, seconded by the Hon.
Henry C. Robinson and the Hon. Stephen W. Kellogg. The Legislature appropriated the sum of
five thousand dollars for a statue in bronze, and a committee was appointed to procure it.
They opened a public competition, and, after considerable delay, during which the commission
was changed by death and by absence,--indeed four successive governors, Hubbard, Waller, Harrison,
and Lounsbury have served on it,--the work was awarded to Karl Gerhardt, a young sculptor who
began his career in this city. It was finished in clay, and accepted in October, 1886, put
in plaster, and immediately sent to the foundry of Melzar Masman in Chicopee, Massachusetts.

