And this opinion I maintain, notwithstanding a recent act on the part of the Emperor, which
some construe into the expression of unfavorable sentiments toward us. I allude to the appointment
of Fronto, Nigridius Fronto, to be chief priest of the temple of the Sun, which has these several
years been building, and is now just completed. This man signalized himself, both under Decius
and Valerian, for his bitter hatred of the Christians, and his untiring zeal in the work of
their destruction. The tales which are told of his ferocious barbarity, would be incredible,
did we not know so well what the hard Roman heart is capable of. It is reported of him, that
he informed against his own sisters, who had embraced the Christian faith, was with those who
hunted them with blood-hounds from their place of concealment, and stood by, a witness and
an executioner, while they were torn limb from limb, and devoured. I doubt not the truth of
the story. And from that day to this, has he made it his sole office to see that all the laws
that bear hard upon the sect, and deprive them of privileges and immunities, are not permitted
to become a dead letter. It is this man, drunk with blood, whom Aurelian has put in chief authority
in his new temple, and made him, in effect, the head of religion in the city. He is however
not only this. He possesses other traits, which with reason might commend him to the regard
of the Emperor. He is an accomplished man, of an ancient family, and withal no mean scholar.
He is a Roman, who for Rome's honor or greatness, as he would on the one hand sacrifice father,
mother, daughter, so would he also himself. And Rome, he believes, lives but in her religion;
it is the life-blood of the state. It is these traits, I doubt not, that have recommended him
to Aurelian, rather than the others. He is a person eminently fitted for the post to which
he is exalted; and you well know that it is the circumstance of fitness, Aurelian alone considers,
in appointing his own or the servants of the state. Probus thinks differently. And although
he sees no cause to apprehend immediate violence, confesses his fears for the future. He places
less reliance than I do upon the generosity or friendship of Aurelian. It is his conviction
that superstition is the reigning power of his nature, and will sooner or later assert its
supremacy. It may be so. Probus is an acute observer, and occupies a position more favorable
to impartial estimates, and the formation of a dispassionate judgment, than I.

This reminds me that you asked for news of Probus, my 'Christian pedagogue,' as you are wont
to name him. He is here, adorning, by a life of severe simplicity and divine benevolence, the
doctrine he has espoused. He is a frequent inmate of our house, and Julia, not less than myself,
ever greets him with affectionate reverence, as both friend and instructor. He holds the chief
place in the hearts of the Roman Christians; for even those of the sect who differ from him
in doctrine and in life, cannot but acknowledge that never an apostle presented to the love
and imitation of his followers an example of rarer virtue. Yet he is not, in the outward rank
which he holds, at the head of the Christian body. Their chiefs are, as you know, the bishops,
and Felix is Bishop of Rome, a man every way inferior to Probus. But he has the good or ill
fortune to represent more popular opinions, in matters both of doctrine and practice than the
other, and of course easily rides into the posts of trust and honor. Ho represents those among
the Christians--for, alas! there are such among them--who, in seeking the elevation and extension
of Christianity, do not hesitate to accommodate both doctrine and manner to the prejudices
and tastes of both Pagan and Jew. They seek converts, not by raising them to the height of
Christian principle and virtue, but by lowering these to the level of their grosser conceptions.
Thus it is easy to see that in the hands of such professors, the Christian doctrine is undergoing
a rapid process of deterioration. Probus, and those who are on his part, see this, are alarmed,
and oppose it; but numbers are against them, and consequently power and authority. Already,
strange as it may seem, when you compare such things with the institution of Christianity,
as effected by its founder, do the bishops, both in Rome and in the provinces, begin to assume
the state and bearing of nobility. Such is the number and wealth of the Christian community,
that the treasuries of the churches are full; and from this source the pride and ambition of
their rulers are luxuriously fed. If, as you walk through the street which crosses from the
Quirinal to the Arch of Titus, lined with private dwellings of unusual magnificence, you ask
whose is that with a portico, that for beauty and costliness rather exceeds the rest, you are
told, 'That is the dwelling of Felix, the Bishop of Rome;' and if it chance to be a Christian
who answers the question, it is done with ill-suppressed pride or shame, according to the party
to which he belongs. This Felix is the very man, through the easiness of his dispositions,
and his proneness to all the arts of self-indulgence, and the imposing graciousness of his
carriage, to keep the favor of the people, and at the same time sink them, without suspicion
on their part, lower and lower toward the sensual superstitions, from which, through so much
suffering and by so many labors, they have but just escaped, and accomplish an adulterous and
fatal union between Christianity and Paganism; by which indeed Paganism may be to some extent
purified and exalted, but Christianity defiled and depressed. For Christianity, in its essence,
is that which beckons and urges onward, not to excellence only, but to perfection. Of course
its march is always in advance of the present. By such union with Paganism then, or Judaism,
its essential characteristic will disappear; Christianity will, in effect, perish. You may
suppose, accordingly, that Probus, and others who with him rate Christianity so differently,
look on with anxiety upon this downward tendency, and with mingled sorrow and indignation upon
those who aid it--oftentimes actuated, as is notorious, by most corrupt motives.

       *       *       *       *       *

I am just returned from the shop of the learned Publius, where I met Probus, and others of
many ways of thinking. You will gather from what occurred, better than from anything else I
could say, what occupies the thoughts of our citizens, and how they stand affected.

I called to Milo to accompany me, and to take with him a basket in which to bring back books,
which it was my intention to purchase.

'I trust, noble master,' said he, 'that I am to bear back no more Christian books.'

'Why so?'

'Because the priests say that they have magical powers over all who read them, or so much as
handle them; that a curse sticks wherever they are or have been. I have heard of those who
have withered away to a mere wisp; of others who have suddenly caught on fire, and vanished
in flame and smoke; and of others, whose blood has stood still, frozen, or run out from all
parts of the body, changed to the very color of your shoe, at their bare touch. Who should
doubt that it is so, when the very boys in the streets have it, and it is taught in the temples?
I would rather Solon, noble master, went in my stead. Mayhap his learning would protect him.'

I, laughing, bade him come on. 'You are not withered away yet, Milo, nor has your blood run
out; yet you have borne many a package of these horrible books. Surely the gods befriend you.'

'I were else long since with the Scipios.' After a pause of some length, he added, as he reluctantly,
and with features of increased paleness, followed in my steps:

'I would, my master, that you might be wrought with to leave these ways. I sleep not for thinking
of your danger. Never, when it was my sad mischance to depart from the deserted palace of the
great Gallienus, did I look to know one to esteem like him. But it is the truth when I affirm,
that I place Piso before Gallienus, and the lady Julia before the lady Salonina. Shall I tell
you a secret?'

'I will hear it, if it is not to be kept.'

'It is for you to do with it as shall please you. I am the bosom friend, you may know, of Curio,
the favorite slave of Fronto--'

'Must I not publish it?'

'Nay, that is not the matter, though it is somewhat to boast of. There is not Curio's fellow
in all Rome. But that may pass. Curio then, as I was with him at the new temple, while he was
busied in some of the last offices before the dedication, among other things, said: 'Is not
thy master Piso of these Christians?' 'Yes,' said I, 'he is; and were they all such as he,
there could be no truth in what is said of them.' 'Ah!' he replied, 'there are few among the
accursed tribe like him. He has but just joined them; that's the reason he is better than the
rest. Wait awhile, and see what he will become. They are all alike in the end, cursers, and
despisers, and disbelievers, of the blessed gods. But lions have teeth, tigers have claws,
knives cut, fire burns, water drowns.' There he stopped. 'That's wise,' I said, 'who could
have known it?' 'Think you,' he rejoined, 'Piso knows it? If not, let him ask Fronto. Let me
advise thee,' he added, in a whisper, though in all the temple there were none beside us, 'let
me advise thee, as thy friend, to avoid dangerous company. Look to thyself; the Christians
are not safe.' 'How say you,' I replied, 'not safe? What and whom are they to fear? Gallienus
vexed them not. Is Aurelian----' 'Say no more,' he replied, interrupting me, 'and name not
what I have dropped, for your life. Fronto's ears are more than the eyes of Argus, and his
wrath more deadly than the grave.'

'Just as he ended these words, a strong beam of red light shot up from the altar, and threw
a horrid glare over the whole dark interior. I confess I cried out with affright. Curio started
at first, but quickly recovered, saying that it was but the sudden flaming up of the fire that
had been burning on the altar, but which shortly before he had quenched. 'It is,' said he,
'an omen of the flames that are to be kindled throughout Rome.' This was Curio's communication.
Is it not a secret worth knowing?'

'It tells nothing, Milo, but of the boiling over of the wrath of the malignant Fronto, which
is always boiling over. Doubtless I should fare ill, were his power equal to his will to harm
us. But Aurelian is above him.'

'That is true; and Aurelian, it is plain, is little like Fronto.'

'Very little.'

'But still I would that, like Gallienus, thou couldst only believe in the gods. The Christians,
so it is reported, worship and believe in but a man,--a Jew,--who was crucified as a criminal,
with thieves and murderers.' He turned upon me a countenance full of unaffected horror.

'Well, Milo, at another time I will tell you what the truth about it is. Here we are now, at
the shop of Publius.'

The shop of Publius is remarkable for its extent and magnificence, if such a word may be applied
to a place of traffic. Here resort all the idlers of learning and of leisure, to turn over
the books, hear the news, discuss the times, and trifle with the learned bibliopole. As I entered,
he saluted me in his customary manner, and bade me 'welcome to his poor apartments, which for
a long time,' he said, 'I had not honored with my presence.'

I replied that two things had kept me away: the civil broils in which the city had just been
involved, and the care of ordering the appointments of a new dwelling. I had come now to commence
some considerable purchases for my vacant shelves, if it might so happen that the books I wanted
were to be found in his rooms.

'There is not,' he replied, 'a literature, a science, a philosophy, an art, or a religion,
whose principal authors are not to be found upon the walls of Publius. My agents are in every
corner of the empire, of the east and west, searching out the curious and the rare, the useful
and the necessary, to swell the catalogue of my intellectual riches. I believe it is established,
that in no time before me, as nowhere now, has there been heard of a private collection like
this for value and for number.'

'I do not doubt what you say, Publius. This is a grand display. Your ranges of rooms show like
those of the Ulpian. Yet you do not quite equal, I suppose, Trajan's for number?'

'Truly not. But time may bring it to pass. What shall I show you? It pleases me to give my
time to you. I am not slow to guess what it is you now, noble Piso, chiefly covet. And I think,
if you will follow me to the proper apartment, I can set before you the very things you are
in search of. Here upon these shelves are the Christian writers. Just let me offer you this
copy of Hegesippus, one of your oldest historians, if I err not. And here are some beautifully
executed copies, I have just ordered to be made, of the Apologies of Justin and Tertullian.
Here, again, are Marcion and Valentinus; but perhaps they are not in esteem with you. If I
have heard aright, you will prefer these tracts of Paul, or Artemon. But hold, here is a catalogue.
Be pleased to inspect it.'

As I looked over the catalogue, I expressed my satisfaction that a person of his repute was
willing to keep on sale works so generally condemned, and excluded from the shops of most of
his craft.

'I aim, my dear friend--most worthy Piso--to steer a midway course among contending factions.
I am myself a worshipper of the gods of my fathers. But I am content that others should do
as they please in the matter, I am not, however, so much a worshipper--in your ear--as a bookseller.
That is my calling. The Christians are become a most respectable people. They are not to be
overlooked. They are, in my judgment, the most intelligent part of our community. Wasting none
of their time at the baths and theatres, they have more time for books. And then their numbers
too! They are not fewer than seventy thousand!--known and counted. But the number, between
ourselves, Piso of those who secretly favor or receive this doctrine, is equal to the other!
My books go to houses, ay, and to palaces, people dream not of.'

'I think your statements a little broad,' said a smooth, silvery voice, close at our ears.
We started, and beheld the Prefect Varus standing at our side. Publius was for a moment a little
disconcerted; but quickly recovered, saying in his easy way, 'A fair morning to you! I knew
not that it behooved me to be upon my oath, being in the presence of the Governor of Rome.
I repeat, noble Varus, but what I hear. I give what I say as the current rumor. That is all--that
is all. Things may not be so, or they may; it is not for me to say. I wish well to all; that
is my creed.'

'In the public enumerations of the citizens,' replied the Prefect, inclining with civility
to Publius, 'the Christians have reached at no time fifty thousand. As for the conjecture touching
the number of those who secretly embrace this injurious superstition, I hold it utterly baseless.
It may serve a dying cause to repeat such statements, but they accord not with obvious fact.'

'Suspect me not, Varus,' hastily rejoined the agitated Publius, 'of setting forth such statements
with the purpose to advance the cause of the Christians. I take no part in this matter. Thou
knowest that I am a Roman of the old stamp. Not a Roman in my street is more diligently attentive
to the services of the temple than I. I simply say again, what I hear as news of my customers.
The story which one rehearses, I retail to another.'

'I thank the gods it is so,' replied the man of power.

'During these few words, I had stood partly concealed by a slender marble pillar. I now turned,
and the usual greetings passed with the Prefect.

'Ah! Piso! I knew not with certainty my hearer. Perhaps from you'--smiling as he spoke--'we
may learn the truth. Rome speaks loudly of your late desertion of the religion and worship
of your fathers, and union with the Galileans. I should say, I hoped the report ill founded,
had I not heard it from quarters too authentic to permit a doubt.'

'You have heard rightly, Varus,' I rejoined. 'After searching through all antiquity after truth,
I congratulate myself upon having at last discovered it, and where I least expected, in a Jew.
And the good which I have found for myself, I am glad to know is enjoyed by so many more of
my fellow-citizens. I should not hesitate to confirm the statement made by Publius, from whatever
authority he may have derived it, rather than that which has been made by yourself. I have
bestowed attention not only upon the arguments which support Christianity, but upon the actual
condition of the Christian community, here and throughout the empire. It is prosperous at this
hour, beyond all former example. If Pliny could complain, even in his day, of the desertion
of the temples of the gods, what may we now suppose to be the relative numbers of the two great
parties? Only, Varus, allow the rescript of Gallienus to continue in force, which merely releases
us from oppressions, and we shall see in what a fair trial of strength between the two religions
will issue.'

'That dull profligate and parricide,' replied Varus, 'not content with killing himself with
his vices, and his father by connivance, must needs destroy his country by his fatuity. I confess,
that till that order be repealed, the superstition will spread.'

'But it only places us upon equal ground.'

'It is precisely there where we never should be placed. Should the conspirator be put upon
the ground of a citizen? Were the late rebels of the mint to be relieved from all oppression,
that they might safely intrigue and conspire for the throne?'

'Christianity has nothing to do with the empire,' I answered, 'as such. It is a question of
moral, philosophical, religious truth. Is truth to be exalted or suppressed by edicts?'

'The religion of the state,' replied Varus, 'is a part of the state; and he who assails it,
strikes at the dearest life of the state, and--forgive me--is to be dealt with--ought to be
dealt with--as a traitor.'

'I trust,' I replied, 'that that time will never again come, but that reason and justice will
continue to bear sway. And it is both reasonable and just, that persons who yield to none in
love of country, and whose principles of conduct are such as must make good subjects everywhere,
because they first make good men, should be protected in the enjoyment of rights and privileges
common to all others.'

'If the Christians,' he rejoined, 'are virtuous men, it is better for the state than if they
were Christians and corrupt men. But still that would make no change in my judgment of their
offence. They deny the gods who preside over this nation, and have brought it up to its present
height of power and fame. Their crime were less, I repeat, to deny the authority of Aurelian.
This religion of the Galileans is a sore, eating into the vitals of an ancient and vigorous
constitution, and must be cut away. The knife of the surgeon is what the evil cries out for
and must have--else come universal rottenness and death. I mourn that from the ranks of the
very fathers of the state, they have received an accession like this of the house of Piso.'

'I shall think my time and talent well employed,' I replied, 'in doing what I may to set the
question of Christianity in its true light before the city. It is this very institution, Varus,
which it needs to preserve it. Christianize Rome, and you impart the very principle of endurance,
of immortality. Under its present corruptions, it cannot but sink. Is it possible that a community
of men can long hold together as vicious as this of Rome?--whose people are either disbelievers
of all divine existences, or else ground to the earth by the most degrading superstitions?
A nation, either on the one hand governed by superstition, or, on the other, atheistical, contains
within itself the disease which sooner or later will destroy it. You yourself, it is notorious,
have never been within the walls of a temple, nor are Lares or Penates to be found within your
doors.'

'I deny it not,' rejoined the Prefect. 'Most who rise to any intelligence, must renounce, if
they ever harbored it, all faith in the absurdities and nonsense of the Roman religion. But
what then? These very absurdities, as we deem them, are holy truth to the multitude, and do
more than all bolts, bars, axes, and gibbets, to keep them in subjection. The intelligent are
good citizens by reflection; the multitude, through instincts of birth, and the power of superstition.
My idea is, as you perceive, Piso, but one. Religion is the state, and for reasons of state
must be preserved in the very form in which it has so long upheld the empire.'

'An idea more degrading than yours, to our species,' I replied, 'can hardly be conceived. I
cannot but look upon man as something more than a part of the state. He is, first of all, a
man, and is to be cared for as such. To legislate for the state, to the ruin of the man, is
to pamper the body, and kill the soul. It is to invert the true process. The individual is
more than the abstraction which we term the state. If governments cannot exist, nor empires
hold their sway, but by the destruction of the human being, why let them fall. The lesser must
yield to the greater. As a Christian, my concern is for man as man. This is the essence of
the religion of Christ. It is philanthropy. It sees in every human soul a being of more value
than empires, and its purpose is, by furnishing it with truths and motives, equal to its wants,
to exalt it, purify it, and perfect it. If, in achieving this work, existing religions or governments
are necessarily overturned or annihilated, Christianity cares not, so long as man is the gainer.
And is it not certain, that no government could really be injured, although it might apparently,
and for a season, by its subjects being raised in all intelligence and all virtue? My work
therefore, Varus, will be to sow truth in the heart of the people, which shall make that heart
fertile and productive. I do not believe that in doing this Rome will suffer injury, but on
the contrary receive benefit. Its religion, or rather its degrading superstitions, may fall,
but a principle of almighty energy and divine purity will insensibly be substituted in their
room. I labor for man--not for the state.'

'And never, accordingly, most noble Piso, did man, in so unequivocal words, denounce himself
traitor.'

'Patriot! friend! benefactor! rather;' cried a voice at my side, which I instantly recognized
as that of Probus. Several beside himself had drawn near, listening with interest to what was
going on.

'That only shows, my good friend,' said Varus, in his same smiling way, and which seems the
very contradiction of all that is harsh and cruel, 'how differently we estimate things. Your
palate esteems that to be wholesome and nutritious food, which mine rejects as ashes to the
taste, and poison to the blood. I behold Rome torn and bleeding, prostrate and dying, by reason
of innovations upon faith and manners, which to you appear the very means of growth, strength,
and life. How shall we resolve the doubt--how reconcile the contradiction? Who shall prescribe
for the patient? I am happy in the belief, that the Roman people have long since decided for
themselves, and confirm their decision every day as it passes, by new acts and declarations.'

'If you mean,' said Probus, 'to say that numbers and the general voice are still against the
Christians, I grant it so. But I am happy too in my belief, that the scale is trembling on
the beam. There are more and better than you wot of, who hail with eager minds and glad hearts,
the truths which it is our glory, as servants of Christ, to propound. Within many a palace
upon the seven hills, do prayers go up in his name; and what is more, thousands upon thousands
of the humbler ranks, of those who but yesterday were without honor in their own eyes, or others'--without
faith--at war with themselves and the world--fit tools for and foe of the state to work with--are
to-day reverers of themselves, worshippers of God, lovers of mankind, patriots who love their
country better than ever before, because they now behold in every citizen not only a citizen,
but a brother and an immortal. The doctrine of Christianity, as a lover of man, so commends
itself, Varus, to the hearts of the people, that in a few more years of prosperity, and the
face of the Roman world will glow with a new beauty; love and humanity will shine forth in
all its features.

'That is very pretty,' said Varus, his lip slightly curling, as he spoke, but retaining his
courteous bearing, 'yet methinks, seeing this doctrine is so bewitching, and is withal a heaven-inspired
wisdom, the God working behind it and urging it on, it moves onward with a pace something of
the slowest. Within a few of three hundred years has it appealed to the human race, and appealed
in vain. The feeblest and the worst of mankind have had power almost to annihilate it, and
more than once has it seemed scarce to retain its life. Would it have been so, had it been
in reality what you claim for it, of divine birth? Would the gods suffer their schemes for
man's good to be so thwarted, and driven aside by man? What was this boasted faith doing during
the long and peaceful reigns of Hadrian, and the first Antonine? The sword of persecution was
then sheathed, or if it fell at all, it was but on a few. So too under Vespasian, Titus, Nerva,
Commodus, Severus, Heliogabalus, the Philips, Gallienus, and Claudius?'

'That is well said,' a Roman voice added, of one standing by the side of Varus, 'and is a general
wonder.'

'I marvel it should be a wonder,' rejoined Probus. 'Can you pour into a full measure? Must
it not be first emptied? Who, Varus, let him try as he may, could plant the doctrine of Christ
in thy heart? Could I do it, think you?--or Piso?'

'I trow not.'

'And why, I pray you?'

'It is not hard to guess.'

'Is it not because you are already full of contrary notions, to which you cling tenaciously,
and from which, perhaps, no human force could drag you? But yours is a type of every other
Roman mind to which Christianity has been offered. If you receive it not at once, should others?
Suppose the soul to be full of sincere convictions as to the popular faith, can the gospel
easily enter there? Suppose it skeptical, as to all spiritual truth; can it enter there? Suppose
it polluted by vice can it easily enter there? Suppose it like the soul of Fronto,----'

'Hush! hush!' said several voices. Probus heeded them not.

'Suppose it like the soul of Pronto, could it enter there? See you not then, by knowing your
own hearts, what time it must demand for a new, and specially a strict doctrine, to make its
way into the minds of men? 'Tis not easier to bore a rock with one's finger, than to penetrate
a heart hardened by sin or swelled with prejudice and pride. And if we say, Varus, this was
a work for the God to do--that he who originated the faith should propagate it--I answer, that
would not be like the other dealings of the divine power. He furnishes you with earth and seed,
but he ploughs not for you, nor plants, nor reaps. He gives you reason, but he pours not knowledge
into your mind. So he offers truth; but that is all. He compels no assent; he forces no belief.
All is voluntary and free. How then can the march of truth be otherwise than slow? Truth, being
the greatest thing below, resembles in its port the motion of the stars, which are the greatest
things above. But like theirs, if slow, it is ever sure and onward.'

'The stars set in night.'

'But they rise again. Truth is eclipsed often, and it sets for a night; but never is turned
aside from its eternal path.'

'Never, Publius,' said the Prefect, adjusting his gown, and with the act filling the air with
perfume 'never did I think to find myself within a Christian church. Your shop possesses many
virtues. It is a place to be instructed in.' Then turning to Probus, he soothingly and in persuasive
tones, added, 'Be advised now, good friend, and leave off thy office of teacher. Rome can well
spare thee. Take the judgment of others; we need not thy doctrine. Let that alone which is
well established and secure. Spare these institutions, venerable through a thousand years.
Leave changes to the gods.'

Probus was about to reply, when we were strangely interrupted. While we had been conversing,
there stood before me, in the midst of the floor of the apartment, a man, whose figure, face,
and demeanor were such that I hardly could withdraw my eye from him. He was tall and gaunt,
beyond all I ever saw, and erect as a Prætorian in the ranks. His face was strongly Roman,
thin and bony, with sunken cheeks, a brown and wrinkled skin--not through age, but exposure--and
eyes more wild and fiery than ever glared in the head of Hun or hyena. He seemed a living fire-brand
of death and ruin. As we talked, he stood there motionless, sometimes casting glances at our
group, but more frequently fixing them upon a roll which he held in his hands.

As Varus uttered the last words, this man suddenly left his post, and reaching us with two
or three strides, shook his long finger at Varus, saying, at the same time,

'Hold, blasphemer!'

The Prefect started as if struck, and gazing a moment with unfeigned amazement at the figure,
then immediately burst into a laugh, crying out,

'Ha! ha! Who in the name of Hecate have we here? Ha! ha!--he seems just escaped from the Vivaria.'

'Thy laugh,' said the figure, 'is the music of a sick and dying soul. It is a rebel's insult
against the majesty of Heaven; ay, laugh on! That is what the devils do; it is the merriment
of hell. What time they burn not, they laugh. But enough. Hold now thy scoffing, Prefect Varus,
for, high as thou art, I fear thee not: no! not wert thou twice Aurelian, instead of Varus.
I have somewhat for thee. Wilt hear it?'

'With delight, Bubo. Say on.'

'It was thy word just now, 'Rome needs not this doctrine,' was it not?'

'If I said it not, it is a good saying, and I will father it.'

''Rome needs not this doctrine; she is well enough; let her alone!' These were thy words. Need
not, Varus, the streets of Rome a cleansing river to purify them? Dost thou think them well
enough, till all the fountains have been let loose to purge them? Is Tarquin's sewer a place
to dwell in? Could all the waters of Rome sweeten it? The people of Rome are fouler than her
highways. The sewers are sweeter than the very worshippers of our temples. Thou knowest somewhat
of this. Wast ever present at the rites of Bacchus?--or those of the Cyprian goddess? Nay,
blush not yet. Didst ever hear of the gladiator Pollex?--of the woman Cæcina?--of the boy Lælius,
and the fair girl Fannia--proffered and sold by the parents, Pollex and Cæcina, to the loose
pleasures of Gallienus? Now I give thee leave to blush! Is it nought that the one half of Rome
is sunk in a sensuality, a beastly drunkenness and lust, fouler than that of old, which, in
Judea, called down the fiery vengeance of the insulted heavens? Thou knowest well, both from
early experience and because of thy office, what the purlieus of the theatres are, and places
worse than those, and which to name were an offence. But to you they need not be named. Is
all this, Varus, well enough? Is this that venerable order thou wouldst not have disturbed?
Is that to be charged as impiety and atheism, which aims to change and reform it? Are they
conspirators, and rebels, and traitors, whose sole office and labor is to mend these degenerate
morals, to heal these corrupting sores, to pour a better life into the rotting carcass of this
guilty city? Is it for our pastime, or our profit, that we go about this always dangerous work?
Is it a pleasure to hear the gibes, jests, and jeers of the streets and the places of public
resort? Will you not believe that it is for some great end that we do and bear as thou seest--even
the redemption, and purifying, and saving of Rome? I love Rome, even as a mother, and for her
am ready to die. I have bled for her freely in battle, in Gaul, upon the Danube, in Asia, and
in Egypt. I am willing to bleed for her at home, even unto death, if that blood might, through
the blessing of God, be a stream to cleanse her putrifying members. But O, holy Jesus! why
waste I words upon one whose heart is harder than the nether millstone! Thou preachedst not
to Pilate, nor didst thou work thy wonders for Herod. Varus, beware!'

And with these words, uttered with a wild and threatening air, he abruptly turned away, and
was lost in the crowds of the street.

While he raved, the Prefect maintained the same unruffled demeanor as before. His customary
smile played around his mouth, a smile like no other I ever saw. To a casual observer, it would
seem like every other smile, but to one who watches him, it is evident that it denotes no hilarity
of heart, for the eyes accompany it not with a corresponding expression, but on the contrary,
look forth from their beautiful cavities with glances that speak of anything rather than of
peace and good-will. So soon as the strange being who had been declaiming had disappeared,
the Prefect, turning to me, as he drew up his gown around him, said,

'I give you joy, Piso, of your coadjutor. A few more of the same fashion, and Rome is safe.'
And saluting us with urbanity, he sallied from the shop.

I had been too much amazed, myself, during this scene, to do anything else than stand still,
and listen, and observe. As for Probus, I saw him to be greatly moved, and give signs of even
deep distress. He evidently knew who the person was--as I saw him make more than one ineffectual
effort to arrest him in his harangue--and as evidently held him in respect, seeing he abstained
from all interruption of a speech that he felt to be provoking wantonly the passions of the
Prefect, and of many who stood around, from whom, so soon as the man of authority had withdrawn,
angry words broke forth abundantly.

'Well did the noble Prefect say, that that wild animal had come forth like a half-famished
tiger from the Vivaria,' said one.

'It is singular,' observed another, 'that a man who pretends to reform the state, should think
to do it by first putting it into a rage with him, and all he utters.'

'Especially singular,' added a third, 'that the advocate of a religion that, as I hear, condemns
violence, and consists in the strictness with which the passions are governed, should suppose
that he was doing any other work than entering a breach in his own citadel, by such ferocity.
But it is quite possible his wits are touched.'

'No, I presume not,' said the first; 'this is a kind of zeal which, if I have observed aright,
the Christians hold in esteem.'

As these separated to distant parts of the shop, I said to Probus, who seemed heavily oppressed
by what had occurred, 'What dæmon dwells in that body that has just departed?'

'Well do you say dæmon. The better mind of that man seems oft-times seized upon by some foul
spirit, and bound--which then acts and speaks in its room. But do you not know him?'

'No, truly; he is a stranger to me, as he appears to be to all.'

'Nevertheless, you have been in his company. You forget not the Mediterranean voyage?'

'By no means. I enjoyed it highly, and recall it ever with delight.'

'Do you not remember, at the time I narrated to you the brief story of my life, that, as I
ended, a rough voice from among the soldiers exclaimed, 'Where now are the gods of Rome?' This
is that man, the soldier Macer; then bound with fellow soldiers to the service in Africa, now
a Christian preacher.'

'I see it now. That man impressed me then with his thin form and all-devouring eyes. But the
African climate, and the gash across his left cheek, and which seems to have slightly disturbed
the eye upon that side, have made him a different being, and almost a terrific one. Is he sound
and sane?'

'Perfectly so,' replied Probus, 'unless we may say that souls earnestly devoted and zealous,
are mad. There is not a more righteous soul in Rome. His conscience is bare, and shrinking
like a fresh wound. His breast is warm and fond as a woman's--his penitence for the wild errors
of his pagan youth, a consuming fire, which, while it redoubles his ardor in doing what he
may in the cause of truth, rages in secret, and, if the sword or the cross claim him not, will
bring him to the grave. He is utterly incapable of fear. All the racks and dungeons of Rome,
with their tormentors, could not terrify him.'

'You now interest me in him. I must see and know him. It might be of service to him and to
all, Probus, methinks, if he could be brought to associate with those whose juster notions
might influence his, and modify them to the rule of truth.'

'I fear not. What he sees, he sees clearly and strongly, and by itself. He understands nothing
of one truth bearing upon another, and adding to it, or taking from it. Truth is truth with
him--and as his own mind perceives it--not another's. His conscience will allow him in no accommodations
to other men's opinions or wishes; with him, right is right, wrong is wrong. He is impatient
under an argument as a war-horse under the rein after the trumpet sounds. It is unavoidable
therefore but he should possess great power among the Christians of Rome. His are the bold
and decisive qualities that strike the common mind. There is glory and applause in following
and enduring under such a leader. Many are fain to believe him divinely illuminated and impelled,
to unite the characters of teacher and prophet; and from knowing that he is so regarded by
others, Macer has come almost to believe it himself. He is tending more and more to construe
every impulse of his own mind into a divine suggestion, and I believe honestly experiences
difficulty in discriminating between them. Still, I do not deny that it would be of advantage
for him more and more to come in contact with sober and enlightened minds. I shall take pleasure,
at some fitting moment, to accompany you to his humble dwelling; the rather as I would show
you also his wife and children, all of whom are like himself Christians.'

'I shall not forget the promise.'

Whereupon we separated.

I then searched for Publius, and making my purchases, returned home, Milo following with the books.

As Milo relieved himself of his burden, discharging it upon the floor of the library, I overheard
him to say,

'Lie there, accursed rolls! May the flames consume you, ere you are again upon my shoulders!
For none but Piso would I have done what I have. Let me to the temple and expiate.'

'What words are these?' cried Solon, emerging suddenly at the sound from a recess. 'Who dares
to heap curses upon books, which are the soul embalmed and made imperishable? What have we
here? Aha! a new treasure for these vacant shelves, and most trimly ordered.'

'These, venerable Greek,' exclaimed Milo, waving him away, 'are books of magic! oriental magic!
Have a care! A touch may be fatal! Our noble master affects the Egyptians.'

'Magic!' exclaimed Solon, with supreme contempt; 'art thou so idiotic as to put credence in
such fancies? Away!--hinder me not!' And saying so, he eagerly grasped a volume, and unrolling
it, to the beginning of the work, dropped it suddenly, as if bitten by a serpent.

'Ha!' cried Milo, 'said I not so? Art thou so idiotic, learned Solon, as to believe in such
fancies? How is it with thee? Is thy blood hot or cold?--thy teeth loose or fast?--thy arm
withered or swollen?'

Solon stood surveying the pile, with a look partly of anger, partly of sorrow.

'Neither, fool!' he replied. 'These possess not the power nor worth fabled of magic. They are
books of dreams, visions, reveries, which are to the mind what fogs would be for food, and
air for drink, innutritive and vain. Papias!--Irenæus!--Hegesippus!--Polycarp!--Origen!--whose
names are these, and to whom familiar? Some are Greek, some are Latin, but not a name famous
in the world meets my eye. But we will order them on their shelves, and trust that time, which
accomplishes all things, will restore reason to Piso. Milo, essay thy strength--my limbs are
feeble--and lift these upon yonder marble; so may age deal gently with thee.'

'Not for their weight in wisdom, Solon, would I again touch them. I have borne them hither,
and if the priests speak truly, my life is worth not an obolus. I were mad to tempt my fate
farther.'

'Avaunt thee, then, for a fool and a slave, as thou art!'

'Nay now, master Solon, thy own wisdom forsakes thee. Philosophers, they say, are ever possessors
of themselves, though for the rest they be beggars.'

'Beggar! sayest thou? Avaunt! I say, or Papias shall teach thee'--and he would have launched
the roll at the head of Milo, but that, with quick instincts, he shot from the apartment, and
left the pedagogue to do his own bidding.

So, Fausta, you see that Solon is still the irritable old man he was, and Milo the fool he
was. Think not me worse than either, for hoping so to entertain you. I know that in your solitude
and grief, even such pictures may be welcome.

When I related to Julia the scene and the conversation at the shop of Publius, she listened
not without agitation, and expresses her fears lest such extravagances, repeated and become
common, should inflame the minds both of the people and their rulers against the Christians.
Though I agree with her in lamenting the excess of zeal displayed by many of the Christians,
and their needless assaults upon the characters and faith of their opposers, I cannot apprehend
serious consequences from them, because the instances of it are so few and rare, and are palpable
exceptions to the general character which I believe the whole city would unite in ascribing
to this people. Their mildness and pacific temper are perhaps the very traits by which they
are most distinguished, with which they are indeed continually reproached. Yet individual acts
are often the remote causes of vast universal evil--of bloodshed, war, and revolution. Macer
alone is enough to set on fire a city, a continent, a world.

I rejoice, I cannot tell you how sincerely, in all your progress. I do not doubt in the ultimate
return of the city to its former populousness and wealth, at least. Aurelian has done well
for you at last. His disbursements for the Temple of the Sun alone are vast, and must be more
than equal to its perfect restoration. Yet his overthrown column you will scarce be tempted
to rebuild. Forget not to assure Gracchus and Calpurnius of my affection. Farewell.

LETTER III.

FROM PISO TO FAUSTA.

You are right, Fausta, in your unfavorable judgment of the Roman populace. The Romans are not
a people one would select to whom to propose a religion like this of Christianity. All causes
seem to combine to injure and corrupt them. They are too rich. The wealth of subject kingdoms
and provinces finds its way to Rome; and not only in the form of tribute to the treasury of
the empire, but in that of the private fortunes amassed by such as have held offices in them
for a few years, and who then return to the capital to dissipate in extravagance and luxuries,
unknown to other parts of the world, the riches wrung by violence, injustice, and avarice from
the wretched inhabitants whom fortune had delivered into their power. Yes, the wealth of Rome
is accumulated in such masses, not through the channels of industry or commerce; it arrives
in bales and ship-loads, drained from foreign lands by the hand of extortion. The palaces are
not to be numbered, built and adorned in a manner surpassing those of the monarchs of other
nations, which are the private residences of those, or of the descendants of those who for
a few years have presided over some distant province, but in that brief time, Verres-like,
have used their opportunities so well as to return home oppressed with a wealth which life
proves not long enough to spend, notwithstanding the aid of dissolute and spendthrift sons.
Here have we a single source of evil equal to the ruin of any people. The morals of no community
could be protected against such odds. It is a mountain torrent tearing its way through the
fields of the husbandman, whose trees and plants possess no strength of branch or root to resist
the inundation.

Then in addition to all this, there are the largesses of the Emperor, not only to his armies,
but to all the citizens of Rome; which are now so much a matter of expectation, that rebellions
I believe would ensue were they not bestowed. Aurelian, before his expedition to Asia, promised
to every citizen a couple of crowns--he has redeemed the promise by the distribution, not of
money but of bread, two loaves to each, with the figure of a crown stamped upon them. Besides
this, there has been an allowance of meat and pork--so much to all the lower orders. He even
contemplated the addition of wine to the list, but was hindered by the judicious suggestion
of his friend and general, Mucapor, that if he provided wine and pork, he would next be obliged
to furnish them fowls also, or public tumults might break out. This recalled him to his senses.
Still however only in part, for the other grants have not been withdrawn. In this manner is
this whole population supported in idleness. Labor is confined to the slaves. The poor feed
upon the bounties of the Emperor, and the wealth so abundantly lavished by senators, nobles,
and the retired proconsuls. Their sole employment is, to wait upon the pleasure of their many
masters, serve them as they are ready enough to do, in the toils and preparations of luxury,
and what time they are not thus occupied, pass the remainder of their hours at the theatres,
at the circuses, at games of a thousand kinds, or in noisy groups at the corners of the streets
and in the market-places.

It is become a state necessity to provide amusements for the populace in order to be safe against
their violence. The theatres, the baths, with their ample provisions for passing away time
in some indolent amusement or active game, are always open and always crowded. Public or funeral
games are also in progress without intermission in different parts of the capital. Those instituted
in honor of the gods, and which make a part of the very religion of the people are seldom suspended
for even a day. At one temple or another, in this grove or that, within or without the walls,
are these lovers of pleasure entertained by shows, processions, music, and sacrifices. And
as if these were not enough, or when they perchance fail for a moment, and the sovereign people
are listless and dull, the Flavian is thrown open by the imperial command, the Vivaria vomit
forth their maddened and howling tenants either to destroy each other, or dye the dust of the
arena with the blood of gladiators, criminals, or captives. These are the great days of the
Roman people; these their favorite pleasures. The cry through the streets in the morning of
even women and boys, 'Fifty captives to-day for the lions in the Flavian,' together with the
more solemn announcement of the same by the public heralds, and by painted bills at the corners
of the streets, and on the public baths, is sure to throw the city into a fever of excitement,
and rivet by a new bond the affections of this blood-thirsty people to their indulgent Emperor.

Hardly has the floor of the amphitheatre been renewed since the cessation of the triumphal
games of Aurelian, before it is again to be soaked with blood in honor of Apollo, whose magnificent
temple is within a few days to be dedicated.

Never before I believe was there a city whose inhabitants so many and so powerful causes conspired
to corrupt and morally destroy. Were I to give you a picture of the vices of Rome, it would
be too dark and foul a one for your eye to read, but not darker nor fouler than you will suppose
it must necessarily be to agree with what I have already said. Where there is so little industry
and so much pleasure, the vices will flourish and shoot up to their most gigantic growth. Not
in the days of Nero were they more luxuriant than now. Aurelian, in the first year of his reign,
laid upon them a severe but useful restraint, and they were checked for a time. But since he
has himself departed from the simplicity and rigor of that early day, and actually or virtually
repealed the laws which then were promulgated for the reformation of the city in its manners,
the people have also relapsed, and the ancient excesses are renewed.

This certainly is not a people who, in its whole mass, will be eager to receive the truths
of a religion like this of Christianity. It will be repulsive to them. You are right in believing
that among the greater part it will find no favor. But all are not such as I have described.
There are others different in all respects, who stand waiting the appearance of some principles
of philosophy or religion which shall be powerful enough to redeem their country from idolatry
and moral death as well as raise themselves from darkness to light. Some of this sort are to
be found among the nobles and senators themselves,--a few among the very dregs of the people,
but most among those who, securing for themselves competence and independence by their own
labor in some of the useful arts, and growing thoughtful and intelligent with their labor,
understand in some degree, which others do not, what life is for and what they are for, and
hail with joy truths which commend themselves to both their reason and their affections. It
is out of these, the very best blood of Rome, that our Christians are made. They are, in intelligence
and virtue, the very bone and muscle of the capital, and of our two millions constitute no
mean proportion,--large enough to rule and control the whole, should they ever choose to put
forth their power. It is among these that the Christian preachers aim to spread their doctrines,
and when they shall all, or in their greater part, be converted, as, judging of the future
by the past and present, will happen in no long time, Rome will be safe and the empire safe.
For it needs, I am persuaded, for Rome to be as pure as she is great, to be eternal in her
dominion, and then the civilizer and saviour of the whole world. O, glorious age!--not remote--when
truth shall wield the sceptre in Cæsar's seat, and subject nations of the earth no longer come
up to Rome to behold and copy her vices, but to hear the law and be imbued with the doctrine
of Christ, so bearing back to the remotest province precious seed, there to be planted, and
spring up and bear fruit, filling the earth with beauty and fragrance.

       *       *       *       *       *

These things, Fausta, in answer to the questions at the close of your letter, which betray
just such an interest in the subject which engrosses me, as it gives me pleasure to witness.

I have before mentioned the completion of Aurelian's Temple of the Sun and the proposed dedication.
This august ceremony is appointed for tomorrow, and this evening we are bidden to the gardens
of Sallust, where is to be all the rank and beauty of Rome. O that thou, Fausta, couldst be there!

       *       *       *       *       *

I have been, I have seen, I have supped, I have returned; and again seated at my table beneath
the protecting arm of my chosen divinity, I take my pen, and, by a few magic flourishes and
marks, cause you, a thousand leagues away, to see and hear what I have seen and heard.

Accompanied by Portia and Julia, I was within the palace of the Emperor early enough to enjoy
the company of Aurelian and Livia before the rest of the world was there. We were carried to
the more private apartments of the Empress, where it is her custom to receive those whose friendship
she values most highly. They are in that part of the palace which has undergone no alterations
since it was the residence of the great historian, but shines in all the lustre of a taste
and an art that adorned a more accomplished age than our own. Especially, it seems to me, in
the graceful disposition of the interiors of their palaces, and the combined richness and appropriateness
of the art lavished upon them, did the genius of the days of Hadrian and Vespasian surpass
the present. Not that I defend all that that genius adopted and immortalized. It was not seldom
licentious and gross in its conceptions, however unrivalled in the art and science by which
they were made to glow upon the walls, or actually speak and move in marble or brass. In the
favorite apartment of Livia, into which we were now admitted, perfect in its forms and proportions,
the walls and ceilings are covered with the story of Leda, wrought with an effect of drawing
and color, of which the present times afford no example. The well-known Greek, Polymnestes,
was the artist. And this room in all its embellishments is chaste and cold compared with others,
whose subjects were furnished to the painter by the profligate master himself.

The room of Leda, as it is termed, is--but how beautiful it is I cannot tell. Words paint poorly
to the eye. Believe it not less beautiful, nor less exquisitely adorned with all that woman
loves most, hangings, carpets and couches, than any in the palace of Gracchus or Zenobia. It
was here we found Aurelian and Livia, and his niece Aurelia. The Emperor, habited in silken
robes richly wrought with gold, the inseparable sword at his side, from which, at the expense
of whatever incongruity, he never parts--advanced to the door to receive us, saying,

'I am happy that the mildness of this autumn day permits this pleasure, to see the mother of
the Pisos beneath my roof. It is rare nowadays that Rome sees her abroad.'

'Save to the palace of Aurelian,' replied my mother, I now, as is well known, never move beyond
the precincts of my own dwelling. Since the captivity and death of your former companion in
arms, my great husband, Cneius Piso, the widow's hearth has been my hall of state, these widow's
weeds my only robes. But it must be more than private grief, and more than the storms of autumn
or of winter, that would keep me back when it is Aurelian who bids to the feast.'

'We owe you many thanks,' replied the Emperor. 'Would that the loyalty of the parents were
inherited by the children;' casting towards me, as he saluted me at the same time, a look which
seemed to say that he was partly serious, if partly in jest. After mutual inquiries and salutations,
we were soon seated upon couches beneath a blaze of light which, from the centre of the apartment,
darted its brightness, as it had been the sun itself, to every part of the room.

'It is no light sorrow to a mother's heart,' said Portia, 'to know that her two sons, and her
only sons, are, one the open enemy of his country, the other--what shall I term you, Lucius?--an
innovator upon her ancient institutions; and while he believes and calls himself--sincerely,
I doubt not--the friend of his country, is in truth, as every good Roman would say--not an
enemy, my son, I cannot use that word, but as it were--an unconscious injurer. Would that the
conqueror of the world had power to conquer this boy's will!'

'Aurelian, my mother,' I replied, 'did he possess the power, would hesitate to use it in such
a cause. But it is easy to see that it would demand infinitely more power to change one honest
mind than to subdue even the world by the sword.'

Aurelian for a brief moment looked as if he had received a personal affront.

'How say you,' said he, 'demands it more power to change one mind than conquer a world? Methinks
it might be done with something less. My soldiers often maintain with violence a certain opinion;
but I find it not difficult to cause them to let it go, and take mine in its place. The arguments
I use never fail.'

'That may be,' I replied, 'in matters of little moment. Even in these however, is it not plain,
Aurelian, that you cause them not to let go their opinion, but merely to suppress it, or affect
to change it? Your power may compel them either to silence, or to an assertion of the very
contrary of what they but just before had declared as their belief, but it cannot alter their
minds. That is to be done by reason only, not by force.'

'By reason first,' answered the emperor; 'but if that fail, then by force. The ignorant, and
the presumptuous, and the mischievous, must be dealt with as we deal with children. If we argue
with them, it is a favor. It is our right, as it is better, to command and compel.'

'Only establish it that such and such are ignorant, and erroneous, and presumptuous, and I
allow that it would be right to silence them. But that is the very difficulty in the case.
How are we to know that they, who think differently from ourselves, are ignorant or erroneous?
Surely the fact of the difference is not satisfactory proof.'

'They,' rejoined Aurelian, 'who depart from a certain standard in art are said to err. The
thing in this case is of no consequence to any, therefore no punishment ensues. So there is
a standard of religion in the State, and they who depart from it may be said to err. But, as
religion is essential to the State, they who err should be brought back, by whatever application
of force, and compelled to conform to the standard.'

'In what sense,' said Portia, 'can common and ignorant people be regarded as fit judges of
what constitutes, or does not constitute, a true religion? It is a subject level scarce to
philosophers. If, indeed, the gods should vouchsafe to descend to earth and converse with men,
and in that manner teach some new truth, then any one, possessed of eyes and ears, might receive
it, and retain it without presumption. Nay, he could not but do so; but not otherwise.'

'Now have you stated,' said I, 'that which constitutes the precise case of Christianity. They
who received Christianity in the first instance, did it not by balancing against each other
such refined arguments as philosophers use. They were simply judges of matters of fact--of
what their eyes beheld, and their ears heard. God did vouchsafe to descend to earth, and, by
his messenger, converse with men, and teach new truth. All that men had then to do was this,
to see whether the evidence was sufficient that it was a God speaking; and that being made
plain, to listen and record. And at this day, all that is to be done is to inquire whether
the record be true. If the record be a well-authenticated one of what the mouth of God spoke,
it is then adopted as the code of religious truth. As for what the word contains--it requires
no acute intellect to judge concerning it--a child may understand it all.'

'Truly,' replied Portia, 'this agrees but ill with what I have heard and believed concerning
Christianity. It has ever been set forth as a thing full of darkness and mystery, which it
requires the most vigorous powers to penetrate and comprehend.'

'So has it ever been presented to me,' added the Emperor. 'I have conceived it to be but some
new form of Plato's dreams, neither more clear in itself, nor promising to be of more use to
mankind. So, if I err not, the learned Porphyrius has stated it.'

'A good fact,' here interposed Julia, 'is worth more in this argument than the learning of
the most learned. Is it not sufficient proof, Aurelian, that Christianity is somewhat sufficiently
plain and easy, that women are able to receive it so readily? Take me as an unanswerable argument
on the side of Piso.'

'The women of Palmyra,' replied the Emperor, 'as I have good reason to know, are more than
the men of other climes. She who reads Plato and the last essays of Plotinus, of a morning,
seated idly beneath the shadow of some spreading beech, just as a Roman girl would the last
child's story of Spurius about father Tiber and the Milvian Bridge, is not to be received in
this question as but a woman, with a woman's powers of judgment. When the women of Rome receive
their faith as easily as you do, then may it be held as an argument for its simplicity. But
let us now break off the thread of this discourse, too severe for the occasion, and mingle
with our other friends, who by this must be arrived.'

So, with these words, we left the apartment where we had been sitting, the Emperor having upon
one side Portia, and on the other Livia, and moved toward the great central rooms of the palace,
where guests are entertained, and the imperial banquets held.

The company was not numerous; it was rather remarkable for its selectness. Among others not
less distinguished, there were the venerable Tacitus, the consul Capitolinus, Marcellinus the
senator, the prefect Varus, the priest Fronto, the generals Probus and Mucapor, and a few others
of the military favorites of Aurelian.

Of the conversation at supper, I remember little or nothing, only that it was free and light,
each seeming to enjoy himself and the companion who reclined next to him. Aurelian, with a
condescending grace, which no one knows how better to assume than he, urged the wine upon his
friends, as they appeared occasionally to forget it, offering frequently some new and unheard
of kind, brought from Asia, Greece, or Africa, and which he would exalt to the skies for its
flavor. More than once did he, as he is wont to do in his sportive mood, deceive us; for, calling
upon us to fill our goblets with what he described as a liquor surpassing all of Italy, and
which might serve for Hebe to pour out for the gods, and requiring us to drink it off in honor
of Bacchus, Pan, or Ceres, we found, upon lifting our cups to drain them, that they had been
charged with some colored and perfumed medicament more sour or bitter than the worst compound
of the apothecary, or than massican overheated in the vats. These sallies, coming from the
master of the world, were sure to be well received; his satellites, of whom not a few, even
on this occasion, were near him, being ready to die with excess of laughter,--the attendant
slaves catching the jest, and enjoying it with noisy vociferation. I laughed with the rest,
for it seems wise to propitiate, by any act not absolutely base, one, whose ambitious and cruel
nature, unless soothed and appeased by such offerings, is so prone to reveal itself in deeds
of darkness.

When the feast was nearly ended, and the attending slaves were employed in loading it for the
last time with fruits, olives, and confections, a troop of eunuchs, richly habited, entered
the apartment to the sound of flutes and horns, bearing upon a platter of gold an immense bowl
or vase of the same material, filled to the brim with wine, which they placed in the centre
of the table, and then, at the command of the Emperor, with a ladle of the same precious material
and ornamented with gems, served out the wine to the company. At first, as the glittering pageant
advanced, astonishment kept us mute, and caused us involuntarily to rise from our couches to
watch the ceremony of introducing it, and fixing it in its appointed place. For never before,
in Rome, had there been seen, I am sure, a golden vessel of such size, or wrought with art
so marvellous. The language of wonder and pleasure was heard, on every side, from every mouth.
Even Livia and Julia, who in Palmyra had been used to the goblets and wine-cups of the Eastern
Demetrius, showed amazement, not less than the others, at a magnificence and a beauty that
surpassed all experience, and all conception. Just above where the bowl was placed, hung the
principal light, by which the table and the apartment were illuminated, which, falling in floods
upon the wrought or polished metal and the thickly strewed diamonds, caused it to blaze with
a splendor which the eyes could hardly bear, and, till accustomed to it, prevented us from
minutely examining the sculpture, that, with lavish profusion and consummate art, glowed and
burned upon the pedestal, the swelling sides, the rim and handles of the vase, and covered
the broad and golden plain upon which it stood. I, happily, was near it, being seated opposite
Aurelian, and on the inner side of the table, which, as the custom now is, was of the form
of a bent bow, so that I could study at my leisure the histories and fables that were wrought
over its whole surface. Julia and Livia, being also near it on the other side of the table,
were in the same manner wholly absorbed in the same agreeable task.

Livia, being quite carried out of herself by this sudden and unexpected splendor--having evidently
no knowledge of its approach--like a girl as she still is, in her natural, unpremeditated movements,
rose from her couch and eagerly bent forward toward the vase, the better to scan its beauties,
saying, as she did so,

'The Emperor must himself stand answerable for all breaches of order under circumstances like
these. Good friends, let all, who will, freely approach, and, leaving for a moment that of
Bacchus, drink at the fountain of Beauty.' Whereupon all, who were so disposed, gathered round
the centre of the table.

'This,' said Varus, 'both for size, and the perfect art lavished upon it, surpasses the glories
fabled of the buckler of Minerva, whose fame has reached us.'

'You say right; it does so,' said the Emperor 'That dish of Vitellius was inferior in workmanship,
as it was less in weight and size than this, which, before you all I here name "THE CUP OF
LIVIA." Let us fill again from it, and drink to the Empress of the world.'

All sprang in eager haste to comply with a command that carried with it its own enforcement.

'Whatever,' continued the Emperor, when our cups had been drained, 'may have been the condition
of art in other branches of it, in the time of that Emperor, there was no one then whose power
over the metals, or whose knowledge of forms, was comparable with that of our own Demetrius;
for this, be it known, is the sole work of the Roman--and yet, to speak more truly, it must
be said the Greek--Demetrius, aided by his brother from the East, who is now with him. Let
the music cease; we need that disturbance no more; and call in the brothers Demetrius. These
are men who honor any age, and any presence.'

The brothers soon entered; and never were princes or ambassadors greeted with higher honor.
All seemed to contend which should say the most flattering and agreeable thing. 'Slaves,' cried
the Emperor, 'a couch and cups for the Demetrii.'

The brothers received all this courtesy with the native ease and dignity which ever accompany
true genius. There was no offensive boldness, or presuming vanity, but neither was there any
shrinking cowardice nor timidity. They felt that they were men, not less distinguished by the
gods, than many or most of those, in whose presence they were, and they were sufficient to
themselves. The Roman Demetrius resembles much his brother of Palmyra, but, in both form and
countenance, possesses beauty of a higher order. His look is contemplative and inward; his
countenance pale and yet dark; his features regular and exactly shaped, like a Greek statue;
his hair short and black; his dress, as was that of him of Palmyra, of the richest stuffs,
showing that wealth had become their reward as well as fame.

'Let us,' cried the Emperor, 'in full cups, drawn from the Livian fount, do honor to ourselves,
and the arts, by drinking to the health of Demetrius of Palmyra, and Demetrius of Rome.' Every
cup was filled, and drained. 'We owe you thanks,' then added Aurelian, 'that you have completed
this great work at the time promised; though I fear it has been to your own cost, for the paleness
of your cheeks speaks not of health.'

'The work,' replied the Roman Demetrius, 'could not have been completed but for the timely
and effectual aid of my Eastern brother, to whose learned hand, quicker in its execution than
my own, you are indebted for the greater part of the sculptures, upon both the bowl and dish.'

'It is true, noble Emperor,' said the impetuous brother, 'my hand is the quicker of the two,
and in some parts of this work, especially in whatever pertains to the East, and to the forms
of building or of vegetation, or costume seen chiefly or only there, my knowledge was perhaps
more exact and minute than his; but, let it be received, that the head that could design these
forms and conceive and arrange these histories, and these graceful ornaments--to my mind more
fruitful of genius than all else--observe you them? have you scanned them all?--belongs to
no other than Demetrius of Rome. In my whole hand, there resides not the skill that is lodged
in one of his fingers;--nor, in my whole head, the power that lies behind one of his eyes.'

The enthusiasm of the Eastern brother called up a smile upon the faces of all, and a blush
upon the white cheek of the Roman.

'My brother is younger than I,' he said, 'and his blood runs quicker. All that he says, though
it be a picture of the truest heart ever lodged in man, is yet to be taken with abatement.
But for him, this work would have been far below its present merit. Let me ask you especially
to mark the broad border, where is set forth the late triumph, and ambassadors, captives, and
animals of all parts of the earth, especially of the East, are seen in their appropriate forms
and habits. That is all from the chisel of my brother. Behold here'--and rising he approached
the vase, and vast as it was, by a touch, so was it constructed, turned it round--'behold here,
where is figured the Great Queen of--'; in the enthusiasm of art, he had forgotten for a moment
to whom he was speaking; for at that instant his eye fell upon the countenance of Julia, who
stood near him,--while hers at the same moment caught the regal form of Zenobia, bent beneath
the weight of her golden chains--and which he saw cast down by an uncontrollable grief. He
paused, confused and grieved--saying, as he turned back the vase, 'Ah me! cruel and indiscreet!
Pardon me, noble ladies! and yet I deserve it not.'

'Go on, go on, Demetrius,' said Julia, assuming a cheerful air. 'You offend me not. The course
of Empire must have its way; individuals are but emmets in the path. I am now used to this,
believe me. It is for you rather, and the rest, to forgive in me a sudden weakness.'

Demetrius, thus commanded, resumed, and then with minuteness, with much learning and eloquence,
discoursed successively upon the histories, or emblematic devices, of this the chief work of
his hands. All were sorry when he ceased.

'To what you have overlooked,' said Aurelian, as he paused, 'must I call you back, seeing it
is that part of the work which I most esteem, and in which at this moment I and all, I trust,
are most interested--the sculptures upon the platter; which represent the new temple and ceremonies
of the dedication, which to-morrow we celebrate.'

'Of this,' replied Demetrius, 'I said less, because perhaps the work is inferior, having been
committed, our time being short, to the hands of a pupil--a pupil, however, I beg to say, who,
if the Divine Providence spare him, will one day, and that not a remote one, cast a shadow
upon his teachers.'

'That will he,' said the brother; 'Flaccus is full of the truest inspiration.'

'But to the dedication--the dedication,' interrupted the hoarse voice of Fronto.

Demetrius started, and shrunk backward a step at that sound, but instantly recovered himself,
and read into an intelligible language many of the otherwise obscure and learned details of
the work. As he ended, the Emperor said,

'We thank you, Demetrius, for your learned lecture, which has given a new value to your labors.
And now, while it is in my mind, let me bespeak, as soon as leisure and inclination shall serve,
a silver statue, gilded, of Apollo, for the great altar, which to-morrow will scarce be graced
with such a one as will agree with the temple and its other ornaments.'

Demetrius, as this was uttered, again started, and his countenance became of a deadly paleness.
He hesitated a moment, as if studying how to order his words so as to express least offensively
an offensive truth. On the instant, I suspected what the truth was; but I was wholly unprepared
for it. I had received no intimation of such a thing.

'Great Emperor,' he began, 'I am sorry to say--and yet not sorry--that I cannot now, as once,
labor for the decoration of the temples and their worship. I am--'

'Ye gods of Rome!--' cried Fronto.

'Peace,' said the Emperor; 'let him be heard. How say you?'

'I am now a Christian; and I hold it not lawful to bestow my power and skill in the workmanship
of gods, in whom I believe not, and thus become the instrument of an erroneous faith in others.'

This was uttered firmly, but with modesty. The countenance of the Emperor was overclouded for
a moment. But it partially cleared up again, as he said, 'I lay not, Demetrius, the least constraint
upon you. The four years that I have held this power in Rome have been years of freedom to
my people in this respect. Whether I have done well in that, for our city and the empire, many
would doubt. I almost doubt myself.'

'That would they, by Hercules,' said the soft voice of Varus just at my ear, and intended chiefly
for me.

'My brother,' said Demetrius, 'will be happy to execute for the Emperor, the work which he
has been pleased to ask of me. He remains steadfast in the faith in which he was reared; the
popular faith of Athens.'

'Apollo,' said Demetrius of Palmyra 'is my especial favorite among all the gods, and of him
have I wrought more statues in silver, gold, or ivory, or of these variously and curiously
combined, than of all the others. If I should be honored in this labor, I should request to
be permitted to adopt the marble image, now standing in the baths of Caracalla, and once, it
is said, the chief wonder of Otho's palace of wonders, as a model after which, with some deviations,
to mould it. I think I could make that, that should satisfy Aurelian and Rome.'

'Do it, do it,' said the Emperor,' and let it be seen, that the worshipper of his country's
gods is not behind him, who denies them, in his power to do them honor.'

'I shall not sleep,' said the artist, 'till I have made a model, in wax at least, of what at
this moment presents itself to my imagination.' Saying which, with little ceremony--as if the
Empire depended upon his reaching, on the instant, his chalk and wax, and to the infinite amusement
of the company--he rose and darted from the apartment, the slaves making way, as for a missile
that it might be dangerous to obstruct.

'But in what way,' said Aurelian, turning to the elder Demetrius, 'have you been wrought upon
to abandon the time-honored religion of Rome? Methinks, the whole world is becoming of this
persuasion.'

'If I may speak freely--'

'With utmost freedom,' said Aurelian.

'I may then say, that ever since the power to reflect upon matters so deep and high had been
mine, I had first doubted the truth of the popular religion, and then soon rejected it, as
what brought to me neither comfort nor hope, and was also burdened with things essentially
incredible and monstrous. For many years, many weary years--for the mind demands something
positive in this quarter, it cannot remain in suspense, and vacant--I was without belief. Why
it was so long, before I turned to the Christians, I know not; unless, because of the reports
which were so common to their disadvantage, and the danger which has so often attended a profession
of their faith. At length, in a fortunate hour, there fell into my hands the sacred books of
the Christians; and I needed little besides to show me, that theirs is a true and almighty
faith, and that all that is current in the city to its dishonor is false and calumnious. I
am now happy, not only as an artist and a Roman, but as a man and an immortal.'

'You speak earnestly,' said Aurelian.

'I feel so,' replied Demetrius; a generous glow lighting up his pale countenance.

'Would,' rejoined the Emperor, 'that some of the zeal of these Christians might be infused
into the sluggish spirits of our own people. The ancient faith suffers through neglect, and
the prevailing impiety of those who are its disciples.'

'May it not rather be,' said Fronto, 'that the ancient religion of the State, having so long
been neglected by those who are its appointed guardians, to the extent that even Judaism, and
now Christianity--which are but disguised forms of Atheism--have been allowed to insinuate,
and intrench themselves in the Empire; the gods, now in anger, turn away from us, who have
been so unfaithful to ourselves; and thus this plausible impiety is permitted to commit its
havocs. I believe the gods are ever faithful to the faithful.'

'What good citizen, too,' added Varus, 'but must lament to witness the undermining, and supplanting
of those venerable forms, under which this universal empire has grown to its present height
of power? He is scarcely a Roman who denies the gods of Rome, however observant he may be of
her laws and other institutions. Religion is her greatest law.'

'These are hard questions,' said the Emperor. 'For, know you not, that some of our noblest,
and fairest, and most beloved, have written themselves followers of this Gallilean God? How
can we deal sharply with a people, at whose head stands the chief of the noble house of the
Pisos, and a princess of the blood of Palmyra?'

Although Aurelian uttered these words in a manner almost sportive to the careless ear, yet
I confess myself to have noticed at the moment, an expression of the countenance, and a tone
in the voice, which gave me uneasiness. I was about to speak, when the venerable Tacitus addressed
the Emperor, and said,

'I can never think it wise to interfere with violence, in the matter of men's worship. It is
impossible, I believe, to compel mankind to receive any one institution of religion, because
different tribes of men, different by nature and by education, will and do demand, not the
same, but different forms of belief and worship. Why should they be alike in this, while they
separate so widely in other matters? and can it be a more hopeful enterprise to oblige them
to submit to the same rules in their religion, than it would be to compel them to feed on the
same food, and use the same forms of language or dress? I know that former emperors have thought
and acted differently. They have deemed it a possible thing to restore the ancient unity of
worship, by punishing with severity, by destroying the lives even, of such as should dare to
think for themselves. But their conduct is not to be defended, either as right in itself or
best for the state. It has not been just or wise, as policy. For is it not evident, how oppression
of those who believe themselves to be possessed of truth important to mankind, serves but to
bind them the more closely to their opinions? Are they, for a little suffering, to show themselves
such cowards as to desert their own convictions, and prove false to the interests of multitudes?
Rather, say they, let us rejoice, in such a cause, to bear reproach. This is the language of
our nature. Nay, such persons come to prize suffering, to make it a matter of pride and boasting.
Their rank among themselves is, by and by, determined by the readiness with which they offer
themselves as sacrifices for truth and God. Are such persons to be deterred by threats, or
the actual infliction of punishment?'

'The error has been,' here said the evil-boding Fronto, 'that the infliction of punishment
went not to the extent that is indispensable to the success of such a work. The noble Piso
will excuse me; we are but dealing with abstractions. Oppress those who are in error, only
to a certain point, not extreme, and it is most true they cling the closer to their error.
We see this in the punishment of children. Their obstinacy and pride are increased, by a suffering
which is slight, and which seems to say to the parent, 'He is too timid, weak, or loving, to
inflict more.' So too with our slaves. Whose slaves ever rose a second time against the master's
authority, whose first offence, however slight, was met, not by words or lashes, but by racks
and the cross?'

'Nay, good Fronto, hold; your zeal for the gods bears you away beyond the bounds of courtesy.'

'Forgive me then, great sovereign, and you who are here--if you may; but neither time nor place
shall deter me, a minister of the great god of light, from asserting the principles upon which
his worship rests, and, as I deem, the Empire itself. Under Decius, had true Romans sat on
the tribunals; had no hearts, too soft for such offices, turned traitors to the head; had no
accursed spirit of avarice received the bribes which procured security, to individuals, families,
and communities; had there been no commutations of punishment, then--'

'Peace, I say, Fronto; thou marrest the spirit of the hour. How came we thus again to this
point? Such questions are for the Council-room or the Senate. Yet, truth to say, so stirred
seems the mind of this whole people in the matter, that, in battle, one may as well escape
from the din of clashing arms, or the groans of the dying, as, in Rome, avoid this argument.
Nay, by my sword, not a voice can I hear, either applauding, disputing, or condemning, since
I have set on foot this new war in the East. Once, the city would have rung with acclamations,
that an army was gathering for such an enterprise. Now, it seems quite forgotten that Valerian
once fell, or that, late though it be, he ought to be avenged. This Jewish and Christian argument
fills all heads, and clamors on every tongue. Come, let us shake off this dæmon in a new cup,
and drink deep to the revenge of Valerian.'

'And of the gods,' ejaculated Fronto, as he lifted the goblet to his lips.

'There again?' quickly and sharply demanded Aurelian, bending his dark brows upon the offender.

'Doubtless,' said Portia, 'he means well, though over zealous, and rash in speech. His heart,
I am sure, seconds not the cruel language of his tongue. So at least I will believe; and, in
the meantime, hope, that the zeal he has displayed for the ancient religion of our country,
may not be without its use upon some present, who, with what I trust will prove a brief truancy,
have wandered from their household gods, and the temples of their fathers.'

'May the gods grant it,' added Livia; 'and restore the harmony, which should reign in our families,
and in the capital. Life is over brief to be passed in quarrel. Now let us abandon our cups.
Sir Christian Piso! lead me to the gardens, and let the others follow as they may our good
example.'

The gardens we found, as we passed from the palace, to be most brilliantly illuminated with
lamps of every form and hue. We seemed suddenly to have passed to another world, so dream-like
was the effect of the multitudinous lights as they fell with white, red, lurid, or golden glare,
upon bush or tree, grotto, statue, or marble fountain.

'Forget here, Lucius Piso,' said the kind-hearted Livia, 'what you have just heard from the
lips of that harsh bigot, the savage Fronto. Who could have looked for such madness! Not again,
if I possess the power men say I do, shall he sit at the table of Aurelian. Poor Julia too!
But see! she walks with Tacitus. Wisdom and mercy are married in him, and both will shed comfort
on her.'

'I cannot but lament,' I replied, 'that a creature like Fronto should have won his way so far
into the confidence of Aurelian. But I fear him not; and do not believe that he will have power
to urge the Emperor to the adoption of measures, to which his own wisdom and native feelings
must stand opposed. The rage of such men as Fronto, and the silent pity and scorn of men immeasurably
his superiors, we have now learned to bear without complaint, though not without some inward
suffering. To be shut out from the hearts of so many, who once ran to meet us on our approach;
nor only that, but to be held by them as impious and atheistical, monsters whom the earth is
sick of, and whom the gods are besought to destroy--this is a part of our burden which we feel
to be heaviest. Heaven preserve to us the smiles, and the love of Livia.'

'Doubt not that they will ever be yours. But I trust that sentiments, like those of Tacitus,
will bear sway in the councils of Aurelian, and that the present calm will not be disturbed.'

Thus conversing, we wandered on, beguiled by such talk, and the attractive splendors of the
garden, till we found ourselves separated, apparently by some distance, from our other friends;
none passed us, and none met us. We had reached a remote and solitary spot, where fewer lamps
had been hung, and the light was faint and unequal. Not sorry to be thus alone, we seated ourselves
on the low pedestal of a group of statuary--once the favorite resort of the fair and false
Terentia--whose forms could scarcely be defined, and which was enveloped, at a few paces distant,
with shrubs and flowers, forming a thin wall of partition between us and another walk, corresponding
to the one we were in, but winding away in a different direction. We had sat not long, either
silent or conversing, ere our attention was caught by the sound of approaching voices, apparently
in earnest discourse. A moment, and we knew them to be those of Fronto, and Aurelian.

'By the gods, his life shall answer it,' said Aurelian with vehemence, but with suppressed
tones; 'who but he was to observe the omens? Was I to know, that to-day is the Ides, and to-morrow
the day after? The rites must be postponed.'

'It were better not, in my judgment,' said Fronto, 'all the other signs are favorable. Never,
Papirius assured me, did the sacred chickens seize so eagerly the crumbs. Many times, as he
closely watched, did he observe them--which is rare--drop them from their mouths overfilled.
The times he has exactly recorded. A rite like this put off, when all Rome is in expectation,
would, in the opinion of all the world, be of a more unfavorable interpretation, than if more
than the day were against us.'

'You counsel well. Let it go on.'

'But to ensure a fortunate event, and propitiate the gods, I would early, and before the august
ceremonies, offer the most costly and acceptable sacrifice.'

'That were well also. In the prisons there are captives of Germany, of Gaul, of Egypt, and
Palmyra. Take what and as many as you will. If we ever make sure of the favor of the gods,
it is when we offer freely that which we hold at the highest price.'

'I would rather they were Christians,' urged Fronto.

'That cannot be,' said Aurelian. 'I question if there be a Christian within the prison walls;
and, were there hundreds, it is not a criminal I would bring to the altar, I would as soon
offer a diseased or ill-shaped bull.'

'But it were an easy matter to seize such as we might want. Not, O Aurelian, till this accursed
race is exterminated, will the heavens smile as formerly upon our country. Why are the altars
thus forsaken? Why are the temples no longer thronged as once? Why do the great, and the rich,
and the learned, silently withhold their aid, or openly scoff and jeer? Why are our sanctuaries
crowded only by the scum and refuse of the city?'

'I know not. Question me not thus.'

'Is not the reason palpable and gross to the dullest mind? Is it not because of the daily growth
of this blaspheming and atheistical crew, who, by horrid arts seduce the young, the timid,
and above all the women, who ever draw the world with them, to join them in their unhallowed
orgies, thus stripping the temples of their worshippers, and dragging the gods themselves from
their seats? Think you the gods look on with pleasure while their altars and temples are profaned
or abandoned, and a religion, that denies them, rears itself upon their ruins?'

'I know not. Say no more.'

'Is it possible, religion or the state should prosper, while he, who is not only Vicegerent
of the gods, Universal Monarch, but what is more, their sworn Pontifex Maximus, connives at
the existence and dissemination of the most dangerous opinions--'

'Thou liest.'

'Harboring even beneath the imperial roof, and feasting at the imperial table, the very heads
and chief ministers of this black mischief--'

'Hold, I say. I swear by all the gods, known and unknown, that another word, and thy head shall
answer it. Is my soul that of a lamb, that I need this stirring up to deeds of blood? Am I
so lame and backward, when the gods are to be defended, that I am to be thus charged? Let the
lion sleep when he will; chafed too much, and he may spring and slay at random. I love not
the Christians, nor any who flout the gods and their worship--that thou knowest well. But I
love Piso, Aurelia, and the divine Julia--that thou knowest as well. Now no more.'

'For my life,' said Fronto, 'I hold it cheap, if I may but be faithful to my office and the gods.'

'I believe it, Fronto. The gods will reward thee. Let us on.'

In the earnestness of their talk they had paused, and stood just before us, being separated
but by a thin screen of shrubs. We continued rooted to our seats while this conversation went
on, held there both by the impossibility of withdrawing without observation, and by a desire
to hear--I confess it--what was thus in a manner forced upon me, and concerned so nearly, not
only myself, but thousands of my fellow-Christians.

When they were hidden from us by the winding of the path, we rose and turned toward the palace.

'That savage!' said Livia. 'How strange, that Aurelian, who knows so well how to subdue the
world, should have so little power to shake off this reptile.'

'There is power enough,' I replied; 'but alas! I fear the will is wanting. Superstition is
as deep a principle in the breast of Aurelian as ambition and of that, Fronto is the most fitting
high-priest. Aurelian places him at the head of religion in the state for those very qualities,
whose fierce expression has now made us tremble. Let us hope that the Emperor will remain where
he now is, in a position from which it seems Fronto is unable to dislodge him, and all will
go well.'

We soon reached the palace, where, joining Julia and Portia, our chariot soon bore us to the
Coelian Hill. Farewell.

LETTER IV.

FROM PISO TO FAUSTA.

I promised you, Fausta, before the news should reach you in any other way, to relate the occurrences
and describe the ceremonies of the day appointed for the dedication of the new Temple of the
Sun. The day has now passed, not without incidents of even painful interest to ourselves and
therefore to you, and I sit down to fulfil my engagements.

Vast preparations had been making for the occasion, for many days or even months preceding,
and the day arose upon a city full of expectation of the shows, ceremonies, and games, that
were to reward their long and patient waiting. For the season of the year the day was hot,
unnaturally so; and the sky filled with those massive clouds, piled like mountains of snow
one upon another, which, while they both please the eye by their forms, and veil the fierce
splendors of the sun, as they now and then sail across his face, at the same time portend wind
and storm. All Rome was early astir. It was ushered in by the criers traversing the streets,
and proclaiming the rites and spectacles of the day, what they were, and where to be witnessed,
followed by troops of boys, imitating, in their grotesque way, the pompous declarations of
the men of authority, not unfrequently drawing down upon their heads the curses and the batons
of the insulted dignitaries. A troop of this sort passed the windows of the room in which Julia
and I were sitting at our morning meal. As the crier ended his proclamation, and the shouts
of the applauding urchins died away, Milo, who is our attendant in preference to any and all
others, observed,

'That the fellow of a crier deserved to have his head beat about with his own rod, for coming
round with his news not till after the greatest show of the day was over.'

'What mean you?' I asked. 'Explain.'

'What should I mean,' he replied, 'but the morning sacrifice at the temple.'

'And what so wonderful,' said Julia, 'in a morning sacrifice? The temples are open every morning,
are they not?'

'Yes, truly are they,' rejoined Milo; 'but not for so great a purpose, nor witnessed by so
great crowds. Curio wished me to have been there, and says nothing could have been more propitious.
They died as the gods love to have them.'

'Was there no bellowing nor struggling, then?' said Julia.

'Neither, Curio assures me; but they met the knife of the priest as they would the sword of
an enemy on the field of battle.'

'How say you?' said Julia, quickly, turning pale; 'do I hear aright, Milo, or are you mocking?
God forbid that you should speak of a human sacrifice.'

'It is even so, mistress. And why should it not be so? If the favor of the gods, upon whom
we all depend, as the priests tell us, is to be purchased so well in no other way, what is
the life of one man, or of many, in such a cause? The great Gallienus, when his life had been
less ordered than usual after the rules of temperance and religion, used to make amends by
a few captives slain to Jupiter; to which, doubtless, may be ascribed his prosperous reign.
But, as I was saying, there was, so Curio informed me at the market not long afterwards, a
sacrifice, on the private altar of the temple, of ten captives. Their blood flowed just as
the great god of the temple showed himself in the horizon. It would have done you good, Curio
said, to see with what a hearty and dexterous zeal Fronto struck the knife into their hearts--for
to no inferior minister would he delegate the sacred office.'

'Lucius,' cried Julia, 'I thought that such offerings were now no more. Is it so, that superstition
yet delights itself in the blood of murdered men?'

'It is just so,' I was obliged to reply. 'With a people naturally more gentle and humane than
we of Rome this custom would long ago have fallen into disuse. They would have easily found
a way, as all people do, to conform their religious doctrine and offerings to their feelings
and instincts. But the Romans, by nature and long training, lovers of blood, their country
built upon the ruins of others, and cemented with blood--the taste for it is not easily eradicated.
There are temples where human sacrifices have never ceased. Laws have restrained their frequency--have
forbidden them, under heaviest penalties, unless permitted by the state--but these laws ever
have been, and are now evaded; and it is the settled purpose of Fronto, and others of his stamp,
to restore to them their lost honors, and make them again, as they used to be, the chief rite
in the worship of the gods. I am not sorry, Julia, that your doubts, though so painfully, have
yet been so effectually, removed.'

Julia had for some time blamed, as over-ardent, the zeal of the Christians. She had thought
that the evil of the existing superstitions was over-estimated, and that it were wiser to pursue
a course of more moderation; that a system that nourished such virtues as she found in Portia,
in Tacitus, and others like them, could not be so corrupting in its power as the Christians
were in the habit of representing it; that if we could succeed in substituting Christianity
quietly, without alienating the affections, or shocking too violently the prejudices, of the
believers in the prevailing superstitions, our gain would be double. To this mode of arguing
I knew she was impelled, by her love and almost reverence for Portia; and how could I blame
it, springing from such a cause? I had, almost criminally, allowed her to blind herself in
a way she never would have done, had her strong mind acted, as on other subjects, untrammelled
and free. I was not sorry that Milo had brought before her mind a fact which, however revolting
in its horror to such a nature as hers, could not but heal while it wounded.

'Milo,' said Julia, as I ended, 'say now that you have been jesting; that this is a piece of
wit with which you would begin in a suitable way an extraordinary day; this is one of your
Gallienus fictions.'

'Before the gods,' replied Milo, 'I have told you the naked truth. But not the whole; for Curio
left me not till he had shown how each had died. Of the ten, but three, he averred, resisted,
or died unwillingly. The three were Germans from beyond the Danube--brothers, he said, who
had long lain in prison till their bones were ready to start through the skin. Yet were they
not ready to die. It seemed as if there were something they longed--more even than for life
or freedom--to say; but they might as well have been dumb and tongueless, for none understood
their barbarous jargon. When they found that their words were in vain, they wrung their hands
in their wo, and cried out aloud in their agony. Then, however, at the stern voice of Fronto,
warning them of the hour, they ceased--embraced each other, and received the fatal blow; the
others signified their pleasure at dying so, rather than to be thrown to wild beasts, or left
to die by slow degrees within their dungeon's walls. Two rejoiced that it was their fate to
pour out their blood upon the altar of a god, and knelt devoutly before the uplifted knife
of Fronto. Never, said Curio, was there a more fortunate offering. Aurelian heard the report
of it with lively joy, and said that 'now all would go well.' Curio is a good friend of mine;
will it please you to hear these things from his own lips?'

'No,' said Julia; 'I would hear no more. I have heard more than enough. How needful, Lucius,
if these things are so, that our Christian zeal abate not! I see that this stern and bloody
faith requires that they who would deal with it must carry their lives in their hand, ready
to part with nothing so easily, if by so doing they can hew away one of the branches, or tear
up one of the roots of this ancient and pernicious error. I blame not Probus longer--no, nor
the wild rage of Macer.'

'Two, lady, of the captives were of Palmyra; the Queen's name and yours were last upon their lips.'

'Great God! how retribution like a dark pursuing shadow hangs upon the steps of guilt! Even
here it seeks us. Alas, my mother! Heaven grant that these things fall not upon your ears!'

Julia was greatly moved, and sat a long time silent, her face buried in her hands, and weeping.
I motioned to Milo to withdraw and say no more. Upon Julia, although so innocent of all wrong--guiltless
as an infant of the blame, whatever it may be, which the world fixes upon Zenobia--yet upon
her, as heavily as upon her great mother, fall the sorrows, which, sooner or later, overtake
those, who, for any purpose, in whatever degree selfish, have involved their fellow-creatures
in useless suffering. Being part of the royal house, Julia feels that she must bear her portion
of its burdens. Time alone can cure this grief.

But you are waiting, with a woman's impatient curiosity, to hear of the dedication.

At the appointed hour, we were at the palace of Aurelian on the Palatine, where a procession
pompous as art, and rank, and numbers could make it, was formed, to move thence by a winding
and distant way to the temple near the foot of the Quirinal. Julia repaired with Portia to
a place of observation near the temple--I to the palace, to join the company of the Emperor.
Of the gorgeous magnificence of the procession I shall tell you nothing. It was in extent,
and variety of pomp and costliness of decoration, a copy of that of the late triumph; and went
even beyond the captivating splendor of the example. Roman music--which is not that of Palmyra--lent
such charms as it could to our passage through the streets to the temple, from a thousand performers.

As we drew near to the lofty fabric, I thought that no scene of such various beauty and magnificence
had ever met my eye. The temple itself is a work of unrivalled art. In size it surpasses any
other building of the same kind in Rome, and for excellence of workmanship and purity of design,
although it may fall below the standard of Hadrian's age, yet, for a certain air of grandeur,
and luxuriance of invention in its details, and lavish profusion of embellishment in gold and
silver, no temple, nor other edifice, of any preceding age, ever perhaps resembled it. Its
order is the Corinthian, of the Roman form, and the entire building is surrounded by its graceful
columns, each composed of a single piece of marble. Upon the front, is wrought Apollo surrounded
by the Hours. The western extremity is approached by a flight of steps, of the same breadth
as the temple itself. At the eastern, there extends beyond the walls, to a distance equal to
the length of the building, a marble platform, upon which stands the altar of sacrifice, which
is ascended by various flights of steps, some little more than a gently rising plain, up which
the beasts are led that are destined to the altar.

When this vast extent of wall and column, of the most dazzling brightness, came into view,
everywhere covered, together with the surrounding temples, palaces, and theatres, with a dense
mass of human beings, of all climes and regions, dressed out in their richest attire--music
from innumerable instruments filling the heavens with harmony--shouts of the proud and excited
populace, every few moments, and from different points, as Aurelian advanced, shaking the air
with their thrilling din--added to, still further, by the neighing of horses, and the frequent
blasts of the trumpet--the whole made more solemnly imposing by the vast masses of clouds which
swept over the sky, now suddenly unveiling, and again eclipsing, the sun, the great god of
this idolatry, and from which few could withdraw their gaze;--when, at once, this all broke
upon my eye and ear, I was like a child who, before, had never seen aught but his own village,
and his own rural temple, in the effect wrought upon me, and the passiveness with which I abandoned
myself to the sway of the senses. Not one there, was more ravished than I was, by the outward
circumstance and show. I thought of Rome's thousand years, of her power, her greatness, and
universal empire, and, for a moment, my step was not less proud than that of Aurelian.

But, after that moment, when the senses had had their fill, when the eye had seen the glory,
and the ear had fed upon the harmony and the praise, then I thought and felt very differently.
Sorrow and compassion for these gay multitudes were at my heart; prophetic forebodings of disaster,
danger, and ruin to those, to whose sacred cause I had linked myself, made my tongue to falter
in its speech, and my limbs to tremble. I thought that the superstition, that was upheld by
the wealth and the power, whose manifestations were before me, had its roots in the very centre
of the earth--far too deep down for a few like myself ever to reach them. I was like one, whose
last hope of life and escape is suddenly struck away.

I was aroused from these meditations, by our arrival at the eastern front of the temple. Between
the two central columns, on a throne of gold and ivory, sat the Emperor of the world, surrounded
by the senate, the colleges of augurs and haruspices, and by the priests of the various temples
of the capital, all in their peculiar costume. Then, Fronto, the priest of the temple, standing
at the altar, glittering in his white and golden robes like a messenger of light--when the
crier had proclaimed that the hour of worship and sacrifice had come, and had commanded silence
to be observed--bared his head, and, lifting his face up toward the sun, offered, in clear
and sounding tones, the prayer of dedication. As he came toward the close of his prayer, he,
as is so usual, with loud and almost frantic cries, and importunate repetition, called upon
all the gods to hear him, and then, with appropriate names and praises, invoked the Father
of gods and men to be present.

Just as he had thus solemnly invoked Jupiter by name, and was about to call upon the other
gods in the same manner, the clouds, which had been deepening and darkening, suddenly obscured
the sun; a distant peal of thunder rolled along the heavens; and, at the same moment, from
out the dark recesses of the temple, a voice of preternatural power came forth, proclaiming,
so that the whole multitude heard the words,--'God is but one; the King eternal, immortal,
invisible.'

It is impossible to describe the horror that seized those multitudes. Many cried out with fear,
and each seemed to shrink behind the other. Paleness sat upon every face. The priest paused
as if struck by a power from above. Even the brazen Fronto was appalled. Aurelian leaped from
his seat, and by his countenance, white and awe-struck, showed that to him it came as a voice
from the gods. He spoke not; but stood gazing at the dark entrance into the temple, from which
the sound had come. Fronto hastily approached him, and whispering but one word as it were into
his ear, the Emperor started; the spell that bound him was dissolved; and, recovering himself--making
indeed as though a very different feeling had possessed him--cried out in fierce tones to his
guards,

'Search the temple; some miscreant, hid away among the columns, profanes thus the worship and
the place. Seize him, and drag him forth to instant death.'

The guards of the Emperor, and the servants of the temple, rushed in at that bidding, and searched
in every part the interior of the building. They soon emerged, saying that the search was fruitless.
The temple, in all its aisles and apartments, was empty.

The ceremonies, quiet being again restored, then went on. Twelve bulls, of purest white and
of perfect forms, their horns bound about with fillets, were now led by the servants of the
temple up the marble steps to the front of the altar, where stood the cultrarii and haruspices,
ready to slay them and examine their entrails. The omens,--as gathered by the eyes of all from
the fierce strugglings and bellowings of the animals, as they were led toward the place of
sacrifice, some even escaping from the hands of those who had the management of them, and from
the violent and convulsive throes of others as the blow fell upon their heads, or the knife
severed their throats,--were of the darkest character, and brought a deep gloom upon the brow
of the Emperor. The report of the haruspices, upon examination of the entrails, was little
calculated to remove that gloom. It was for the most part unfavorable. Especially appalling
was the sight of a heart, so lean and withered, that it scarce seemed possible that it should
ever have formed a part of a living animal. But more harrowing than all, was the voice of Fronto,
who, prying with the haruspices into the smoking carcass of one of the slaughtered bulls, suddenly
cried out with horror, that 'no heart was to be found.'

The Emperor, hardly to be restrained by those near him from some expression of anger, ordered
a more diligent search to be made.

'It is not in nature that such a thing should be,' he said. 'Men are, in truth, sometimes without
hearts; but brutes, as I think, never.'

The report was however confidently confirmed. Fronto himself approached, and said that his
eye had from the first been upon the beast, and the exact truth had been stated.

The carcasses, such parts as were for the flames, were then laid upon the vast altar, and the
flames of the sacrifice ascended.

The heavens were again obscured by thick clouds, which, accumulating into heavy volumes, began
now, nearer and nearer, to shoot forth lightning, and roll their thunders. The priest commenced
the last office, prayer to the god to whom the new temple had been thus solemnly consecrated.
He again bowed his head, and again lifted up his voice. But no sooner had he invoked the god
of the temple and besought his ear, than again, from its dark interior, the same awful sounds
issued forth, this time saying, 'Thy gods, O Rome, are false and lying gods. God is but one.'

Aurelian, pale, as it seemed to me; with superstitious fear, again strove to shake it off,
giving it artfully and with violence the appearance of offended dignity. His voice was a shriek
rather than a human utterance, as he cried out,

'This is but a Christian device; search the temple till the accursed Nazarene be found, and
hew him piecemeal--' More he would have said, but, at the instant, a bolt of lightning shot
from the heavens, and, lighting upon a large sycamore which shaded a part of the temple court,
clove it in twain. The swollen cloud, at the same moment, burst, and a deluge of rain poured
upon the city, the temple, the gazing multitude, and the just kindled altars. The sacred fires
went out in hissing and darkness; a tempest of wind whirled the limbs of the slaughtered victims
into the air, and abroad over the neighboring streets. All was confusion, uproar, terror, and
dismay. The crowds sought safety in the houses of the nearest inhabitants, in the porches,
and in the palaces. Aurelian and the senators and those nearest him, fled to the interior of
the temple. The heavens blazed with the quick flashing of the lightning, and the temple itself
seemed to rock beneath the voice of the thunder. I never knew in Rome so terrific a tempest.
The stoutest trembled, for life hung by a thread. Great numbers, it has now been found, in
every part of the capital, fell a prey to the fiery bolts. The capital itself was struck, and
the brass statue of Vespasian in the forum thrown down and partly melted. The Tiber in a few
hours overran its banks, and laid much of the city on its borders under water.

But, ere long, the storm was over. The retreating clouds, but still sullenly muttering in the
distance as they rolled away, were again lighted up by the sun, who again shone forth in his
splendor. The scattered limbs of the victims were collected and again laid upon the altar.
Dry wood being brought, the flames quickly shot upward and consumed to the last joint and bone
the sacred offerings. Fronto once more stood before the altar, and now uninterrupted performed
the last office of the ceremony. Then, around the tables spread within the temple to the honor
of the gods, feasting upon the luxuries contributed by every quarter of the earth, and filling
high with wine, the adverse omens of the day were by most forgotten. But not by Aurelian. No
smile was seen to light up his dark countenance. The jests of Varus and the wisdom of Porphyrius
alike failed to reach him. Wrapped in his own thoughts, he brooded gloomily over what had happened,
and strove to read the interpretation of portents so unusual and alarming.

I went not in to the feast, but returned home reflecting as I went upon the events I had witnessed.
I knew not what to think. That in times past, long after the departure from the earth of Jesus
and his immediate followers, the Deity had interposed in seasons of peculiar perplexity to
the church, and, in a way to be observed, had manifested his power, I did not doubt. But for
a long time such revelations had wholly ceased. And I could not see any such features in the
present juncture, as would, to speak as a man, justify and vindicate a departure from the ordinary
methods of the Divine Providence. But then, on the other hand, I could not otherwise account
for the voice, nor discover any way in which, had one been so disposed, he could so successfully
and securely have accomplished his work. Revolving these things, and perplexed by doubts, I
reached the Coelian--when, as I entered my dwelling, I found, to my great satisfaction, Probus
seated with Julia, who at an early period, foreseeing the tempest, had with Portia withdrawn
to the security of her own roof.

'I am glad you are come at length,' said Julia as I entered; 'our friend has scarce spoken.
I should think, did I not know the contrary, that he had suddenly abandoned the service of
truth and become a disciple of Novatus. He hath done little but groan and sigh.'

'Surely,' I replied, 'the occasion warrants both sighs and groans. But when came you from the
temple?'

'On the appearance of the storm, just as Fronto approached the altar the first time. The signs
were not to be mistaken, by any who were not so much engrossed by the scene as to be insensible
to all else, that a tempest was in the sky, and would soon break upon the crowds in a deluge
of rain and hail--as has happened. So that warning Portia of the danger, we early retreated--she
with reluctance; but for myself, I was glad to be driven away from a scene that brought so
vividly before me the events of the early morning.'

'I am glad it was so,' I replied; 'you would have been more severely tried, had you remained.'
And I then gave an account of the occurrences of the day.

'I know not what to make of it,' she said as I ended 'Probus, teach us what to think. I am
bewildered and amazed.'

'Lady,' said Probus, 'the Christian service is a hard one.'

'I have not found it so, thus far; but, on the other hand, a light and easy one.'

'But the way is not ever so smooth, and the path, once entered upon, there is no retreat.'

'No roughness nor peril, Probus, be they what they may, can ever shake me. It is for eternity
I have embraced this faith, not for time--for my soul, not for my body.'

'God be thanked that it is so. But the evils and sorrows that time has in store, and which
afflict the body, are not slight. And sometimes they burst forth from the overburdened clouds
in terrific violence, and poor human strength sinks and trembles, as to-day before the conflict
of the elements.'

'They would find me strong in spirit and purpose, I am sure, Probus, however my woman's frame
of flesh might yield. No fear can change my mind, nor tear me from the hopes which through
Christ I cherish more, a thousand fold, than this life of an hour.'

'Why, why is it so ordained in the Providence of God,' said Probus, 'that truth must needs
be watered with tears and blood, ere it will grow and bear fruit? When, as now, the sky is
dark and threatening, and the mind is thronged with fearful anticipations of the sorrows that
await those who hold this faith, how can I, with a human heart within me, labor to convert
the unbelieving? The words falter upon my tongue. I turn from the young inquirer, and with
some poor reason put him off to another season. When I preach, it is with a coldness that must
repel, and it is that which I almost desire to be the effect. My prayers never reach heaven,
nor the consciences of those who hear. Probus, they say, is growing worldly. His heart burns
no longer within him. His zeal is cold. We must look to Macer. I fear, lady, that the reproaches
are well deserved. Not that I am growing worldly or cold, but that my human affections lead
me away from duty, and make me a traitor to truth, and my master.'

'O no, Probus,' said Julia; 'these are charges foolish and false. There is not a Christian
in Rome but would say so. We all rest upon you.'

'Then upon what a broken reed! I am glad it was not I who made you a Christian.'

'Do you grieve to have been a benefactor?'

'Almost, when I see the evils which are to overwhelm the believer. I look round upon my little
flock of hearers, and I seem to see them led as lambs to the slaughter--poor, defenceless creatures,
set upon by worse than lions and wolves. And you, lady of Piso, how can I sincerely rejoice
that you have added your great name to our humble roll, when I think of what may await you.
Is that form to be dragged with violence amid the hootings of the populace to the tribunal
of the beast Varus? Are those limbs for the rack or the fire?'

'I trust in God they are not, Probus. But if they are needed, they are little to give for that
which has made me so rich, and given wings to the soul. I can spare the body, now that the
soul can live without it.'

'There spoke the universal Christian! What but truth could so change our poor human nature
into somewhat quite divine and godlike! Think not I shrink myself at the prospect of obstruction
and assault. I am a man loose upon the world, weaned by suffering and misfortune from earth,
and ready at any hour to depart from it. You know my early story. But I in vain seek to steel
myself to the pains of others. From what I have said, I fear lest you should think me over-apprehensive.
I wish it were so. But all seems at this moment to be against us.'

'More then,' said Julia, 'must have come to your ears than to ours. When last we sat with the
Emperor at his table, he seemed well inclined. And when urged by Fronto, rebuked him even with
violence.'

'Yes, it was so.'

'Is it then from the scenes of to-day at the temple that you draw fresh omens of misfortune?
I have asked you what we should think of them.'

'I almost tremble to say. I stood, Piso, not far from you, upon the lower flight of steps,
where I think you observed me.'

'I did. And at the sound of that voice from the temple, methought your face was paler than
Aurelian's. Why was that?'

'Because, Piso, I knew the voice.'

'Knew it! What mean you?'

'Repeat it not--let it sink into your ear, and there abide. It was Macer's.'

'Macer's? Surely you jest.'

'Alas! I wish it were a jest. But his tones were no more to be mistaken than were the thunder's.'

'This, should it be known, would, it is plain to see, greatly exasperate Aurelian. It would
be more than enough for Fronto to work his worst ends with. His suspicions at once fell upon
the Christians.'

'That,' said Probus, 'was, I am confident, an artifice. The countenance, struck with superstitious
horror, is not to be read amiss. Seen, though but for a moment, and the signature is upon it,
one and unequivocal. But with quick instinct the wily priest saw his advantage, seized it,
and, whether believing or not himself, succeeded in poisoning the mind of Aurelian and that
of the multitude. So great was the commotion among the populace, that, but for the tempest,
I believe scarce would the legions of the Emperor have saved us from slaughter upon the spot.
Honest, misguided Macer--little dost thou know how deep a wound thou hast struck into the very
dearest life of the truth, for which thou wouldst yet at any moment thyself freely suffer and die!'

'What,' said Julia, 'could have moved him to such madness?'

'With him,' replied Probus, 'it was a deed of piety and genuine zeal for God; he saw it in
the light of an act god-like, and god-directed. Could you read his heart, you would find it
calm and serene, in the consciousness of a great duty greatly performed. It is very possible
he may have felt himself to be but an instrument in the hand of a higher power, to whom he
gives all the glory and the praise. There are many like him, lady, both among Christians and
Pagans. The sybils impose not so much upon others as upon themselves. They who give forth the
responses of the oracle, oft-times believe that they are in very truth full of the god, and
speak not their own thoughts, but the inspirations of him whose priests they are. To themselves
more than to others are they impostors. The conceit of the peculiar favor of God, or of the
gods in return for extraordinary devotion, is a weakness that besets our nature wherever it
is found. An apostle perhaps never believed in his inspiration more firmly than at times does
Macer, and others among us like him. But this inward solitary persuasion we know is nothing,
however it may carry away captive the undiscriminating multitude.'

'Hence, Probus, then, I suppose, the need of some outward act of an extraordinary nature to
show the inspiration real.'

'Yes,' he replied. 'No assertion of divine impulses or revelations can avail to persuade us
of their reality, except supported and confirmed by miracle. That, and that only, proves the
present God. Christ would have died without followers had he exhibited to the world only his
character and his truth, even though he had claimed, and claimed truly, a descent from and
communion with the Deity. Men would have said, 'This is an old and common story. We see every
day and everywhere those who affect divine aid. No act is so easy as to deceive one's self.
If you propose a spiritual moral system and claim for it a divine authority, show your authority
by a divine work, a work impossible to man, and we will then admit your claims. But your own
inward convictions alone, sincere as they may be, and possibly founded in truth, pass with
us for nothing. Raise one that was dead to life, and we will believe you when you reveal to
us the spiritual world and the life to come.'

'I think,' said Julia, 'such would be the process in my own mind. There seems the same natural
and necessary connection here between spiritual truths and outward acts, as between the forms
of letters or the sound of words, and ideas. We receive the most subtle of Plato's reasonings
through words--those miracles of material help--which address themselves to the eye or ear.
So we receive the truths of Jesus through the eye witnessing his works, or the ear hearing
the voice from Heaven.--But we wander from Macer, in whom, from what you have told us, and
Piso has known, we both feel deeply interested. Can he not be drawn away from those fancies
which possess him? 'Tis a pity we should lose so strong an advocate, to some minds so resistless,
nor only that, but suffer injury from his extravagance.'

'It is our purpose,' I replied, 'to visit him to try what effect earnest remonstrance and appeal
may have. Soon as I shall return from my promised and now necessary visit to Marcus and Lucilia,
I shall not fail, Probus, to request you to accompany me to his dwelling.'

'Does he dwell far from us?' asked Julia.

'His house, if house it may be called,' replied Probus, 'is in a narrow street, which runs
just behind the shop of Demetrius, midway between the Capitol and the Quirinal. It is easily
found by first passing the shop and then descending quick to the left--the street Janus, our
friend Isaac's street, turning off at the same point to the right. At Macer's, should your
feet ever be drawn that way, you would see how and in what crowded space the poor live in Rome.'

'Has he then a family, as your words seem to imply?'

'He has; and one more lovely dwells not within the walls of Rome. In his wife and elder children,
as I have informed Piso, we shall find warm and eloquent advocates on our side. They tremble
for their husband and father, whom they reverence and love, knowing his impetuosity, his fearlessness
and his zeal. Many an assault has he already brought upon himself, and is destined, I fear,
to draw down many more and heavier.'

'Heaven shield them all from harm,' said Julia. 'Are they known to Demetrius? His is a benevolent
heart, and he would rejoice to do them a service. No one is better known too or respected than
the Roman Demetrius: his name merely would be a protection.'

'It was from Macer,' replied Probus, 'that Demetrius first heard the truth which now holds
him captive. Their near neighborhood brought them often together. Demetrius was impressed by
the ardor and evident sincerity so visible in the conversation and manners of Macer; and Macer
was drawn toward Demetrius by the cast of melancholy--that sober, thoughtful air--that separates
him so from his mercurial brother, and indeed from all. He wished he were a Christian. And
by happy accidents being thrown together--or rather drawn by some secret bond of attraction--he
in no long time had the happiness to see him one. From the hand of Felix he received the waters
of baptism.'

'What you have said, Probus, gives me great pleasure. I am not only now sure that Macer and
his little tribe have a friend at hand, but the knowledge that such a mind as that of Demetrius
has been wrought upon by Macer, has served to raise him in my esteem and respect. He can be
no common man, and surely no madman.'

'The world ever loves to charge those as mad,' said Probus, 'who, in devotion to a great cause,
exceed its cold standard of moderation. Singular, that excess virtue should incur this reproach,
while excess in vice is held but as a weakness of our nature!'

We were here interrupted by Milo, who came to conduct us to the supper room; and there our
friendly talk was prolonged far into the night.

When I next write, I shall have somewhat to say of Marcus, Lucilia, and the little Gallus.
How noble and generous in the Queen, her magnificent gift! When summer comes round again, I
shall not fail, together with Julia, to see you there. How many recollections will come thronging
upon me when I shall again find myself in the court of the Elephant, sitting where I once sat
so often and listened to the voice of Longinus. May you see there many happy years. Farewell.

       *       *       *       *       *

Nothing could exceed the sensation caused in Rome by the voice heard at the dedication, and
among the adherents of the popular faith, by the unlucky omens of the day and of the sacrifice.
My office at that time called me often to the capital, and to the palace of Aurelian, and threw
me frequently into his company and that of Livia. My presence was little heeded by the Emperor,
who, of a bold and manly temper, spoke out with little reserve, and with no disguise or fear,
whatever sentiments possessed him. From such opportunities, and from communications of Menestheus,
the secretary of Aurelian, little took place at the palace which came not to my knowledge.
The morning succeeding the dedication I had come to the city bringing a packet from the Queen
to the Empress Livia. While I waited in the common reception room of the palace, I took from
a case standing there, a volume and read. As I read, I presently was aroused by the sound of
Aurelian's voice. It was as if engaged in earnest conversation. He soon entered the apartment
accompanied by the priest of the new temple.

'There is something,' he said as he drew near, 'in this combination of unlucky signs that might
appal a stouter spirit than mine. This too, after a munificence toward not one only but all
the temples, never I am sure surpassed. Every god has been propitiated by gifts and appropriate
rites. How can all this be interpreted other than most darkly--other than as a general hostility--and
a discouragement from an enterprise upon which I would found my glory. This has come most unlooked
for. I confess myself perplexed. I have openly proclaimed my purpose--the word has gone abroad
and travelled by this to the court of Persia itself, that with all Rome at my back I am once
more to tempt the deserts of the East.'

He here suddenly paused, being reminded by Fronto of my presence.

'Ah, it matters not;' he said; 'this is but Nichomachus, the good servant of the Queen of Palmyra.
I hope,' he said, turning to me, 'that the Queen is well, and the young Faustula?'

'They are well,' I replied.

'How agree with her these cooler airs of the west? These are not the breezes of Arabia, that
come to-day from the mountains.'

'She heeds them little,' I replied, 'her thoughts are engrossed by heavier cares.'

'They must be fewer now than ever.'

'They are fewer, but they are heavier and weigh upon her life more than the whole East once
did. The remembrance of a single great disaster weighs as a heavier burden than the successful
management of an empire.'

'True, Nichomachus, that is over true.' Then, without further regarding me, he went on with
his conversation with Fronto.

'I cannot,' he said, 'now go back; and to go forward may be persumptuous.'

'I cannot but believe, great Emperor,' said Fronto, 'that I have it in my power to resolve
your doubts, and set your mind at ease.'

'Rest not then,' said Aurelian with impatience--'but say on.'

'You sought the gods and read the omens with but one prayer and thought. And you have construed
them as all bearing upon one point and having one significancy--because you have looked in
no other direction. I believe they bear upon a different point, and that when you look behind
and before, you will be of the same judgment.'

'Whither tends all this?'

'To this--that the omens of the day bear not upon your eastern expedition, but upon the new
religion! You are warned as the great high priest, by these signs in heaven and on earth--not
against this projected expedition, which is an act of piety,--but against this accursed superstition,
which is working its way into the empire, and threatening the extermination and overthrow of
the very altars on which you laid your costly offerings. What concern can the divinities feel
in the array of an army, destined to whatever service, compared with that which must agitate
their sacred breasts as they behold their altars cast down or forsaken, their names profaned,
their very being denied, their worshippers drawn from them to the secret midnight orgies of
a tribe of Atheists, whose aim is anarchy in the state and in religion; owning neither king
on earth nor king in heaven--every man to be his own priest--every man his own master! Is not
this the likeliest reading of the omens?'

'I confess, Fronto,' the Emperor replied, the cloud upon his brow clearing away as he spoke,
'that what you say possesses likelihood. I believe I have interpreted according to my fears.
It is as you say--the East only has been in my thoughts. It cannot in reason be thought to
be this enterprize, which, as you have said, is an act of piety--all Rome would judge it so--against
which the heavens have thus arrayed themselves. Fronto! Fronto! I am another man! Slave,' cried
he aloud to one of the menials as he passed, 'let Mucapor be instantly summoned. Let there
be no delay. Now can my affairs be set on with something more of speed. When the gods smile,
mountains sink to mole-hills. A divine energy runs in the current of the blood and lends more
than mortal force to the arm and the will.'

As he spoke, never did so malignant a joy light up the human countenance as was to be seen
in the face of Fronto.

'And what then,' he hastily put in as the Emperor paused, 'what shall be done with these profane
wretches?'

'The Christians! They must be seen to. I will consider. Now, Fronto, shall I fill to the brim
the cup of human glory. Now shall Rome by me vindicate her lost honor and wipe off the foulest
stain that since the time of Romulus has darkened her annals.'

'You will do yourself and the empire,' rejoined the priest, 'immortal honor. If danger ever
threatened the very existence of the state it is now from the secret machinations of this god-denying
tribe.'

'I spake of the East and of Valerian, Fronto. Syria is now Rome's. Palmyra, that mushroom of
a day, is level with the ground. Her life is out. She will be hereafter known but by the fame
of her past greatness, of her matchless Queen, and the glory of the victories that crowned
the arms of Aurelian. What now remains but Persia?'

'The Christians,' said the priest, shortly and bitterly.

'You are right, Fronto; the omens are not to be read otherwise. It is against them they point.
It shall be maturely weighed what shall be done. When Persia is swept from the field, and Ctesiphon
lies as low as Palmyra, then will I restore the honor of the gods, and let who will dare to
worship other than as I shall ordain! Whoever worships them not, or other than them, shall die.'

'In that spoke the chief minister of religion--the representative of the gods. The piety of
Aurelian is in the mouths of men not less than his glory. The city resounds with the praise
of him who has enriched the temples, erected new ones, made ample provision for the priesthood,
and fed the poor. This is the best greatness. Posterity will rather honor and remember him
who saved them their faith, than him who gained a Persian victory. The victory for Religion
too is to be had without cost, without a step taken from the palace gate or from the side of
her who is alike Aurelian's and the empire's boast.'

'Nay, nay, Fronto, you are over-zealous. This eastern purpose admits not of delay. Hormisdas
is new in his power. The people are restless and divided. The present is the moment of success.
It cannot bear delay. To-morrow, could it be so, would I start for Thrace. The heavens are
propitious. They frown no longer.'

'The likeliest way, methinks,' replied the priest, 'to insure success and the continued favor
of the gods in that which they do not forbid, were first to fulfil their commands in what they
have enjoined.'

'That, Fronto, cannot be denied. It is of weight. But where, of two commands, both seem alike
urgent, and both cannot be done at once, whether we will or not, we must choose, and in choosing
we may err.'

'To an impartial, pious mind, O Emperor, the god of thy worship never shone more clear in the
heavens than shines his will in the terrific signs of yesterday. Forgive thy servant, but drawn
as thou art by the image of fresh laurels of victory to be bound about thy brow, of the rich
spoils of Persia, of its mighty monarch at thy chariot wheels, and the long line of a new triumph
sweeping through the gates and the great heart of the capital,--and thou art blind to the will
of the gods, though writ in the dread convulsions of the elements and the unerring language
of the slaughtered victims.'

'Both may be done--both, Fronto. I blame not your zeal. Your freedom pleases me. Religion is
thus, I know, in good hands. But both I say may be done. The care of the empire in this its
other part may be left to thee and Varus, with full powers to see that the state, in the matter
of its faith, receives no harm. Your knowledge in this, if not your zeal, is more than mine.
While I meet the enemies of Rome abroad, you shall be my other self, and gain other victories
at home.'

'Little, I fear, Aurelian, could be done even by me and Varus leagued, with full delegated
powers, opposed as we should be by Tacitus and the senate and the best half of Rome. None,
but an arm omnipotent as thine, can crush this mischief. I see thou knowest not how deep it
has struck, nor how wide it has spread. The very foundations of the throne and the empire are
undermined. The poison of Christian atheism has infected the whole mind of the people, not
only throughout Rome, but Italy, Gaul, Africa, and Asia. And for this we have to thank whom?
Whom but ourselves? Ever since Hadrian--otherwise a patriot king--built his imageless temples,
in imitation of this barren and lifeless worship; ever since the weak Alexander and his superstitious
mother filled the imperial palace with their statues of Christ, with preachers and teachers
of his religion; ever since the Philips openly and without shame professed his faith; ever,
I say, since these great examples have been before the world, has the ancient religion declined
its head, and the new stalked proudly by. Let not Aurelian's name be added to this fatal list.
Let him first secure the honor of the gods--then, and not till then, seek his own.'

'You urge with warmth, Fronto, and with reason too. Your words are not wasted; they have fallen
where they shall be deeply pondered. In the meantime I will wait for the judgment of the augurs
and haruspices; and as the colleges report, will hold myself bound so to act.'

So they conversed, and then passed on. I was at that time but little conversant with the religious
condition of the empire. I knew but little of the character of the prevailing faith and the
Pagan priesthood; and I knew less of the new religion as it was termed. But the instincts of
my heart were from the gods, and they were all for humanity. I loved man, whoever he was, and
of whatever name or faith; and I sickened at cruelties perpetrated against him, both in war,
and by the bloody spirit of superstition. I burned with indignation therefore as I listened
to the cold-blooded arguings of the bigoted priest, and wept to see how artfully he could warp
aside the better nature of Aurelian, and pour his own venom into veins, that had else run with
human blood, at least not with the poisoned current of tigers, wolves, and serpents, of every
name and nature most vile. My hope was that, away from his prompter, the first purpose of Aurelian
would return and have its way.

LETTER V.

FROM PISO TO FAUSTA.

I am now returned from my long intended visit to the villa of Marcus, and have much to say
concerning it.

But, first of all, rejoice with me in a fresh demonstration of good will, on the part of Aurelian
towards Zenobia. And what think you it is? Nothing less than this, that Vabalathus has been
made, by Aurelian and the senate, king of Armenia! The kingdom is not large, but large enough
for him at his present age--if he shall show himself competent, additions doubtless will be
made. Our only regret is, that the Queen loses thus his presence with her at Tibur. He had
become to his mother all that a son should be. Not that in respect to native force he could
ever make good the loss of Julia, or even of Livia, but, that in all the many offices which
an affectionate child would render to a parent in the changed circumstances of Zenobia, he
has proved to be a solace and a support.

The second day from the dedication, passing through the Porta Asinaria with Milo at my side,
I took the road that winds along the hither bank of the Tiber, and leads most pleasantly, if
not most directly, to the seat of my friends--and you are well aware how willingly I sacrifice
a little time on the way, if by doing so I can more than make up the loss by obtaining brighter
glimpses of earth and sky. Had I not found Christianity, Fausta, this would have been my religion.
I should have forsaken the philosophers, and gone forth into the fields, among the eternal
hills, upon the banks of the river, or the margin of the ever-flowing ocean, and in the lessons
there silently read to me, I should, I think, have arrived at some very firm and comfortable
faith in God and immortality. And I am especially happy in this, that nature in no way loses
its interest or value, because I now draw truth from a more certain source. I take the same
pleasure as before, in observing and contemplating her various forms, and the clearer light
of Christianity brings to view a thousand beauties, to which before I was insensible. Just
as in reading a difficult author, although you may have reached his sense in some good degree,
unaided, yet a judicious commentator points out excellences, and unfolds truths, which you
had either wholly overlooked, or but imperfectly comprehended.

All without the city walls, as within, bore witness to the graciousness of the Emperor in the
prolonged holiday he had granted the people. It was as if the Saturnalia had arrived. Industry,
such as there ever is, was suspended; all were sitting idle, or thronging some game, or gathering
in noisy groups about some mountebank. As we advanced farther, and came just beyond the great
road leading to Tibur, we passed the school of the celebrated gladiator Sosia, at the door
of which there had just arrived from the amphitheatre, a cart bearing home the bodies of such
as had been slain the preceding day, presenting a disgusting spectacle of wounds, bruises,
and flowing blood.

'There was brave fighting yesterday,' said Milo; these are but a few out of all that fell.
The first day's sport was an hundred of the trained gladiators, most of them from the school
of Sosia, set against a hundred picked captives of all nations. Not less than a half of each
number got it. These fellows look as if they had done their best. You've fought your last battle,
old boys--unless you have a bout with Charon, who will be loath, I warrant you beforehand,
to ferry over such a slashed and swollen company. Now ought you in charity,' he continued,
addressing a half-naked savage, who was helping to drag the bodies from the cart, 'to have
these trunks well washed ere you bury them, or pitch them into the Tiber, else they will never
get over the Styx--not forgetting too the ferriage--' what more folly he would have uttered,
I know not, for the wretch to whom he spoke suddenly seized the lash of the driver of the cart,
and laid it over Milo's shoulders, saying, as he did it,

'Off, fool, or my fist shall do for you what it did for one of these.'

The bystanders, at this, set up a hoarse shouting, one of them exclaiming, so that I could
hear him--

'There goes the Christian Piso, we or the lions will have a turn at him yet. These are the
fellows that spoil our trade.'

'If report goes true, they won't spoil it long,' replied another.

No rank and no power is secure against the affronts of this lawless tribe; they are a sort
of licensed brawlers, their brutal and inhuman trade rendering them insensible to all fear
from any quarter. Death is to them but as a scratch on the finger--they care not for it, when
nor how it comes. The slightest cause--a passing word--a look--a motion--is enough to inflame
their ferocious passions, and bring on quarrel and murder. Riot and death are daily occurrences
in the neighborhood of these schools of trained assassins. Milo knew their character well enough,
but he deemed himself to be uttering somewhat that should amuse rather than enrage, and was
mortified rather than terrified, I believe, at the sudden application of the lash. The unfeigned
surprise he manifested, together with the quick leap which his horse made, who partook of the
blow, was irresistibly ludicrous. He was nearly thrown off backwards in the speed of the animal's
flight along the road. It was some time before I overtook him.

'Intermeddling,' I said to Milo, as I came up with him, 'is a dangerous vice. How feel your
shoulders?'

'I shall remember that one-eyed butcher, and if there be virtue in hisses or in thumbs, he
shall rue the hour he laid a lash on Gallienus, poor fellow! Whose horsemanship is equal to
such an onset? I'll haunt the theatre till my chance come.'

'Well, well, let us forget this. How went the games yesterday?'

'Never, as I hear,' he said, 'and as I remember, were they more liberal, or more magnificent.
Larger, or more beautiful, or finer beasts, neither Asia nor Africa ever sent over. They fought
as if they had been trained to it, like these scholars of Sosia, and in most cases they bore
away the palm from them. How many of Sosia's men exactly fell, it is not known, but not fewer
than threescore men were either torn in pieces, or rescued too much lacerated to fight more.'

'What captives were sacrificed?'

'I did not learn of what nation they were, nor how many. All I know, is what I witnessed toward
the end of the sport. Never before did I behold such a form, nor such feats of strength! He
was another Hercules. It was rumored he was from the forests of Germany. If you will believe
it, which I scarce can, though I saw it, he fought successively with six of Sosia's best men,
and one after another laid them all sprawling. A seventh was then set upon him, he having no
time to breathe, or even drink. Many however cried out against this. But Romans, you know,
like not to have their fun spoiled, so the seventh was not taken off. As every one foresaw,
this was too much by just one for the hero; but he fought desperately, and it is believed Sosia's
man got pushes he will never recover from. He was soon however on his knees, and then on his
back, the sword of his antagonist at his throat, he lying like a gasping fish at his mercy--who
waited the pleasure of the spectators a moment, before he struck. Then was there a great shouting
all over the theatre in his behalf, besides making the sign to spare him. But just at the moment,
as for him ill fortune would have it, some poltroon cried out with a voice that went all over
the theatre, 'The dog is a Christian!' Whereupon, like lightning, every thumb went up, and
down plunged the sword into his neck. So, master, thou seest what I tell thee every day, there
is small virtue in being a Christian. It is every way dangerous. If a thief run through the
streets the cry is, a Christian! a Christian! If a man is murdered, they who did it accuse
some neighboring Christian, and he dies for it. If a Christian fall into the Tiber, men look
on as on a drowning-dog. If he slip or fall in a crowd, they will help to trample him to death.
If he is sick or poor, none but his own tribe will help him. A slave has a better chance. Even
the Jew despises him, and spits upon his gown as he passes. What but the love of contempt and
death can make one a Christian, 'tis hard to see. Had that captive been other than a Christian,
he would not have fallen as he did.'

'Very likely. But the Christians, you know, frequent not the amphitheatre. Had they been there
in their just proportion to the rest, the voice would at least have been a divided one.'

'Nay, as for that.' he rejoined, 'there were some stout voices raised in his behalf to the
last, but too few to be regarded. But even in the streets, where all sorts are found, there
is none to take the Christian's part--unless it be that old gashed soldier of the fifth legion,
who stalks through the streets as though all Rome were his. By the gods, I believe he would
beard Aurelian himself! He will stand at a corner, in some public place, and preach to the
crowds, and give never an inch for all their curses and noise. They fear him too much, I believe,
to attack him with aught but words. And I wonder not at it. A few days since, a large dog was
in wicked wantonness, as I must allow, set upon a poor Christian boy. Macer, so he is called
about the city, at the moment came up. Never tiger seized his prey as he seized that dog, and
first dashing out his brains upon the pavement, pursued then the pursuers of the boy, and beat
them to jelly with the carcase of the beast, and then walked away unmolested, leading the child
to his home.'

'Men reverence courage, Milo, everywhere and in all.'

'That do they. It was so with me once, when Gallienus--'

'Gallop, Milo, to that mile-stone, and report to me how far we have come.'

I still as ever extract much, Fausta, from my faithful if foolish slave.

       *       *       *       *       *

In due time and without hindrance, or accident, I reached the outer gate of my friend's villa.

The gate was opened by Coelia, whose husband is promoted to the place of porter. Her face shone
as she saw me, and she hastened to assure me that all were well at the house, holding up at
the same moment a curly-headed boy for me to admire, whom, with a blush and a faltering tongue,
she called Lucius. I told her I was pleased with the name, for it was a good one, and he should
not suffer for bearing it, if I could help it. Milo thought it unlucky enough that it should
be named after a Christian, and I am certain has taken occasion to remonstrate with its mother
on the subject; but, as you may suppose, did not succeed in infusing his own terrors.

I was first met by Lucilia, who received me with her usual heartiness. Marcus was out on some
remote part of the estate, overseeing his slaves. In a few moments, by the assiduous Lucilia
and her attendants, I was brushed and washed and set down to a table--though it was so few
hours since I had left Rome--covered with bread, honey, butter and olives, a cold capon with
salads, and wine such as the cellars of Marcus alone can furnish. As the only way in which
to keep the good opinion of Lucilia is to eat, I ate of all that was on the table, she assuring
me that everything was from their own grounds--the butter made by her own hands--and that I
might search Rome in vain for better. This I readily admitted. Indeed no butter is like hers--so
yellow and so hard--nor bread so light, and so white. Even her honey is more delicious than
what I find elsewhere, the bees knowing by instinct who they are working for; and the poultry
is fatter and tenderer, the hens being careful never to over-fatigue themselves, and the peacocks
and the geese not to exhaust themselves in screaming and cackling. All nature, alive and dead,
takes upon itself a trimmer and more perfect seeming within her influences.

I had sat thus gossipping with Lucilia, enjoying the balmy breezes of a warm autumn day, as
they drew through the great hall of the house, when, preceded by the bounding Gallus, the master
of the house entered in field dress of broad sun-hat, open neck, close coat depending to the
knees, and boots that brought home with them the spoils of many a well-ploughed field.

'Well, sir Christian,' he cried, 'I joy to see thee, although thus recreant. But how is it
that thou lookest as ever before? Are not these vanities of silk, and gold, and fine clothes,
renounced by those of the new religion? Your appearance says nay, and, by Jupiter! wine has
been drunk already! Nay, nay, Lucilia, it was hardly a pagan act to tempt our strict friend
with that Falernian.'

'Falernian is it?'

'Yes, of the vintage of the fourth of Gallienus. Delicious, was it not? But by and by thou
shalt taste something better than that--as much better as that is than anything of the same
name thou didst ever raise to thy lips at the table of Aurelian. Piso! never was a face more
welcome! Not a soul has looked in upon us for days and days. Not, Lucilia, since the Kalends,
when young Flaccus, with a boat-load of roysterers, dropt down the river. But why comes not
Julia too? She could not leave the games and theatres, hah?'

'Marcus,' said Lucilia, 'you forget it was the princess who first seduced Lucius. But for that
eastern voyage for the Persian Calpurnius, Piso would have been still, I dare say, what his
parents made him. Let us not yet however stir this topic; but first of all, Lucius, give us
the city news. How went the dedication? we have heard strange tales.'

'How went it by report?' I asked.

'O, it would be long telling,' said Lucilia. 'Only, for one thing, we heard that there was
a massacre of the Christians, in which some said hundreds, and some, thousands fell. For a
moment, I assure you, we trembled for you. It was quickly contradicted, but the confirmation
afforded by your actual presence, of your welfare, is not unwelcome. You must lay a part of
the heartiness of our reception, especially the old Falernian, to the account of our relieved
fears. But let us hear.'

I then went over the last days in Rome, adding what I had been able to gather from Milo, when
it was such that I could trust to it. When I had satisfied their curiosity, and had moreover
described to Lucilia the dresses of Livia on so great an occasion, and the fashions which were
raging, Marcus proposed that I should accompany him over his farm, and observe his additions
and improvements, and the condition of his slaves. I accepted the proposal with pleasure, and
we soon set forth on our ramble, accompanied by Gallus, now riding his stick and now gambolling
about the lawns and fields with his dog.

I like this retreat of Curtius better almost than any other of the suburban villas of our citizens.
There is an air of calm senatorial dignity about it which modern edifices want. It looks as
if it had seen more than one generation of patrician inhabitants. There is little unity or
order--as those words are commonly understood--observable in the structure of the house, but
it presents to the eye an irregular assemblage of forms, the work of different ages, and built
according to the taste and skill of distant and changing times. Some portions are new, some
old and covered with lichens, mosses, and creeping plants. Here is a portico of the days of
Trajan, and there a tower that seems as if it were of the times of the republic. Yet is there
a certain harmony and congruity running through the whole, for the material used is everywhere
the same--a certain fawn-colored stone drawn from the quarries in the neighborhood; and each
successive owner and architect has evidently paid some regard to preceding erections in the
design and proportions of the part he has added. In this unity of character, as well as in
the separate beauty or greatness of distinct parts, is it made evident that persons of accomplishment
and rank have alone possessed it. Of its earlier history all that Curtius has with certainty
ascertained is, that it was once the seat of the great Hortensius, before he had, in the growth
of his fame and his riches, displayed his luxurious tastes in the wonders of Tusculum, Bauli,
or Laurentum. It was the first indication given by him of that love of elegant and lavish wastefulness,
that gave him at last as wide a celebrity as his genius. The part which he built is well known,
and although of moderate dimensions, yet displays the rudiments of that taste that afterward
was satisfied only with more than imperial magnificence. Marcus has satisfied himself as to
the very room which he occupied as his study and library, and where he prepared himself for
the morning courts; and in the same apartment--hoping as he says to catch something from the
genius of the place--does he apply himself to the same professional labors. His name and repute
are now second to none in Rome. Yet, young as he is, he begins to weary of the bar, and woo
the more quiet pursuits of letters and philosophy. Nay, at the present moment, agriculture
claims all his leisure, and steals time that can ill be spared from his clients. Varro and
Cato have more of his devotion than statutes and precedents.

In the disposition of the grounds, Marcus has shown that he inherits something of the tastefulness
of his remote predecessor; and in the harvest that covers his extensive acres, gives equal
evidence that he has studied, not without profit, the labors of those who have written upon
husbandry and its connected arts. Varro especially is at his tongue's end.

We soon came to the quarter of the slaves--a village almost of the humble tenements occupied
by this miserable class. None but the women, children, sick and aged, were now at home--the
young and able-bodied being abroad at work. No new disturbances have broken out, he tells me;
the former severity, followed by a well-timed lenity, having subdued or conciliated all. Curtius,
although fond of power and of all its ensigns, yet conceals not his hatred of this institution,
which has so long obtained in the Roman state, as in all states. He can devise no way of escape
from it; but he sees in it the most active and general cause of the corruption of morals which
is spread everywhere where it prevails. He cannot suppress his contempt of the delusion or
hypocrisy of our ancestors in terming themselves republicans.

'What a monstrous solecism was it,' he broke out with energy, 'in the times preceding the empire,
to call that a free country which was built upon the degradation and slavery of half of its
population. Rome never was a republic. It was simply a faction of land and slave holders, who
blinded and befooled the ignorant populace, by parading before them some of the forms of liberty,
but kept the power in their own hands. They were a community of petty kings, which was better
in their mind than only one king, as in the time of the Tarquins. It was a republic of kingdoms
and of kings, if you will. Now and then, indeed, the people bustled about and shook their chains,
as in the times of the institution of the tribune's office, and those of the Gracchi. But they
gained nothing. The patricians were still the kings who ruled them. And among no people can
there be liberty where slavery exists--liberty, I mean, properly so called. He who holds slaves
cannot, in the nature of things, be a republican; but, in the nature of things, he is on the
other hand a despot. I am one. And a nation of such individuals is an association of despots
for despotic purposes, and nothing else nor better. Liberty in their mouths is a profanation
of the sacred name. It signifies nothing but their liberty to reign. I confess, it is to those
who happen to be the kings a very agreeable state of things. I enjoy my power and state mightily.
But I am not blind to the fact--my own experience teaches it--that it is a state of things
corrupt and rotten to the heart--destructive everywhere of the highest form of the human character.
It nurses and brings out the animal, represses and embrutes the god that is within us. It makes
of man a being of violence, force, passion, and the narrowest selfishness; while reason and
humanity, which should distinguish him, are degraded and oppressed. Such men are not the stuff
that republics are made of. A republic may endure for a time in spite of them, owing to fortunate
circumstances of another kind; but wherever they obtain a preponderance in the state, liberty
will expire, or exist only in the insulting forms in which she waved her bloody sceptre during
most of our early history. Slavery and despotism are natural allies.'

'I rejoice,' I said, 'to find a change in you, at least in the theory which you adopt.'

'I certainly am changed,' he replied; 'and such as the change may be, is it owing, sir Christian,
to thy calm and yet fiery epistles from Palmyra. Small thanks do I owe thee for making me uncomfortable
in a position from which I cannot escape. Once proud of my slaves and my power, I am already
ashamed of both; but while my principles have altered, my habits and character, which slavery
has created and nursed remain beyond any power of man, so far as I can see, to change them.
What they are, you well know. So that here, in my middle age, I suffer a retribution, that
should have been reserved till I had been dismissed from the dread tribunal of Rhadamanthus.'

'I see not, Curtius, why you should not escape from the position you are in, if you sincerely
desire it, which I suppose you do not.'

'That, to be honest--which at least I am--is I believe the case.'

'I do not doubt it, as it is with all who are situated like yourself. Most, however, defend
the principle as well as cling to the form of slavery.'

'Nay, that I cannot do. That I never did, since my beard was grown. I fancy myself to have
from the gods a good heart. He is essentially of a corrupt heart who will stand for slavery
in its principle. He is without anything generous in his nature. Cold selfishness marks and
makes him. But supposing I as sincerely desired to escape--as I sincerely do not--what, O most
wise mentor, should be the manner?'

'First and at once, to treat them no longer as slaves, but as men.'

'That I am just beginning to do. What else?'

'If you are sincere, as I say, and moreover, if you possess the exalted and generous traits
which we patricians ever claim for ourselves, show it them by giving their freedom one by one
to those who are now slaves, even though it result in the loss of one half of your fortune.
That will be a patrician act. What was begun in crime by others, cannot be perpetuated without
equal crime in us. The enfranchised will soon mingle with the people, and, as we see every
day, become one with it. This process is going on at this moment in all my estates. Before
my will is executed, I shall hope to have disposed in this manner of every slave in my possession.'

'One can hardly look to emulate such virtues as this new-found Christian philosophy seems to
have engendered within thy noble bosom, Piso; but the subject must be weighed. There is nothing
so agreeable in prospect as to do right; but, like some distant stretches of land and hill,
water and wood, the beauty is all gone as it draws near. It is then absolutely a source of
pain and disgust. I will write a treatise upon the great theme.'

'If you write, Curtius, I shall despair of any action, all your philanthropy will evaporate
in a cloud of words.'

'But that will be the way, I think, to restore my equanimity. I believe I shall feel quite
easy after a little declamation. Here, Lucius, regale thyself upon these grapes. These are
from the isles of the Grecian Archipelago, and for sweetness are not equalled by any of our
own. Gallus, Gallus, go not so near to the edge of the pond; it is deep, as I have warned you.
I have lampreys there, Piso, bigger than any that Hortensius ever wept for. Gallus, you dog!
away, I say.'

But Gallus heeded not the command of his father. He already was beginning to have a little
will of his own. He continued playing upon the margin of the water, throwing in sticks for
his dog to bring to him again. Perceiving his danger to be great, I went to him and forcibly
drew him away, he and his dog setting up a frightful music of screams and yelping. Marcus was
both entertained and amazed at the feat.

'Piso,' he jocosely cried out, 'there is a good deal of the old republican in you. You even
treat free men as slaves. That boy--a man in will--never had before such restraint upon his
liberty.'

'Liberty with restraint,' I answered, 'operating upon all, and equally upon all, is the true
account of a state of freedom. Gallus unrestrained is a slave--a slave of passion and the sport
of chance. He is not truly free until he is bound.'

With such talk we amused ourselves as we wandered over the estate, through its more wild and
more cultivated parts. Dinner was presently announced, and we hastened to the house.

Lucilia awaited us in a small six-sided cabinet, fitted up purposely for a dining-room for
six or eight persons. It was wholly cased with a rich marble of a pale yellow hue, beautifully
panelled, having three windows opening upon a long portico with a southern aspect, set out
with exotics in fancifully arranged groups. The marble panels of the room were so contrived
that, at a touch, they slipped aside and disclosed in rich array, here the choicest wines,
there sauces and spices of a thousand sorts, and there again the rarest confections brought
from China and the East. Apicius himself could have fancied nothing more perfect--for the least
dissatisfaction with the flavor of a dish, or the kind of wine, could be removed by merely
reaching out the hand and drawing, from an inexhaustible treasure-house, both wines and condiments,
such as scarce Rome itself could equal. This was an apartment contrived and built by Hortensius
himself.

The dinner was worthy the room and its builder, the marbles, the prospect, the guest, the host,
and the hostess. The aforementioned Apicius would have never once thought of the panelled cupboards.
No dish would have admitted of addition or alteration.

When the feasting was over, and with it the lighter conversation, and more disjointed and various,
which usually accompanies it, Marcus arose, and withdrawing one of the sliding panels, with
much gravity and state, drew forth a glass pitcher of exquisite form filled with wine, saying,
as he did so,

'All, Piso, that you have as yet tasted is but as water of the Tiber to this. This is more
than nectar. The gods have never been so happy as to have seen the like. I am their envy. It
is Falernian, that once saw the wine vaults of Heliogabalus! Not a drop of Chian has ever touched
it. It is pure, unadulterate. Taste, and be translated.'

I acknowledged, as I well might, its unequalled flavor.

'This nectarean draught,' he continued, 'I even consider to possess purifying and exalting
qualities. He who drinks it is for the time of a higher nature. It is better for the temper
than a chapter of Seneca or Epictetus. It brings upon the soul a certain divine calm, favorable
beyond any other state to the growth of the virtues. Could it become of universal use, mankind
were soon a race of gods. Even Christianity were then made unnecessary--admitting it to be
that unrivalled moral engine which you Christians affirm it to be. It is favorable also to
dispassionate discussion, Piso, a little of which I would now invite. Know you not, I have
scarce seen you since your assumption of your new name and faith? What bad demon possessed
you, in evil hour, to throw Rome and your friends into such a ferment?'

'Had you become, Lucius,' said Lucilia, 'a declaiming advocate of Epicurus, or a street-lecturer
upon Plato, or turned priest of Apollo's new temple, it would have all been quite tolerable,
though amazing--but Christian!'--

'Yes, Lucius, it is too bad,' added Marcus. 'If you were in want of moral strength, you would
have done better to have begged some of my Falernian. You should not have been denied.'

'Or,' said Lucilia,'some of my Smyrna cordial.'

'At least,' continued Marcus, 'you might have come to me for some of my wisdom, which I keep
ready, at a moment's warning, in quantities to suit all applicants.'

'Or to me,' said Lucilia, 'for some of my every day good-sense, which, you know, I possess
in such abundance, though I have not sat at the feet of philosophers.'

'But seriously, Lucius,' began Marcus in altered mood, 'this is a most extraordinary movement
of yours. I should like to be able to interpret it. If you must needs have what you call religion,
of which I, for my part, can see no earthly occasion, here were plenty of forms in which to
receive it, more ancient and more respectable than this of the Christians.'

'I am almost unwilling to converse on this topic with you, Marcus,' I rejoined, 'for there
is nothing in your nature, or rather in your educated nature, to which to appeal with the least
hope of any profitable result, either to me, or you. The gods have, as you say, given you a
good heart--I may add too, a most noble head; but, yourself and education together, have made
you so thoroughly a man of the world, that the interests of any other part of your nature,
save those of the intellect and the senses, are to you precisely as if they did not exist.'

'Right, Lucius; therein do I claim honor and distinction. The intangible, the invisible, the
vague, the shadowy, I leave to women and priests--concerning myself only with the substantial
realities of life. Great Jupiter! what would become of mankind were we all women, and priests?
How could the courts go on--senates sit, and deliberate--armies conquer? I think the world
would stand still. However, I object not to a popular faith, such as that which now obtains
throughout, the Roman world. If mankind, as history seems to prove, must and will have something
of the kind, this perhaps is as good as anything else; and, seeing it has once become established
and fixed in the way it has, I think it ought no more to be disturbed than men's faith in their
political institutions. Our concern should be, merely to regulate it, that it grow not too
large, and so overlay and crush the state. Fanatics and bigots must be hewn away. There must
be an occasional infusion of doubt and indifference into the mass, to keep it from fermenting.
You cannot be offended, Lucius, at the way in which I speak of your new-adopted faith. I think
no better of any other. Epicureans, Stoics, Platonists, Jews, Christians, they are all alike
to me. I hold them all at arms length. I have listened to them all; and more idle, indigested
fancies never did I hear--no, not from the new-fledged advocate playing the rhetorician at
his first appearance.'

'I do not wonder, Curtius, that you have turned away dissatisfied with the philosophers. I
do not wonder that you reject the popular superstitions. But I do wonder, that you will prejudge
any question, or infer the intrinsic incredibility of whatever may take the form of religion,
from the intrinsic incredibility of what the world has heretofore possessed. It surely is not
a philosophical method.'

'Not in other things, I grant,' replied Marcus; 'but concerning this question of popular superstition,
or religion, the only philosophical thing is, to discard the whole subject, as one deserving
severe investigation. The follies which the populace have, in all nations, and in all time,
adopted, let them be retained, and even defended and supported by the State. They perform a
not unimportant office in regulating the conduct, and manners of men--in preserving a certain
order in the world. But beyond this, it seems to me, the subject is unworthy the regard of
a reflecting person. One world and one life is enough to manage at a time. If there be others,
and if there be a God who governs them, it will be time enough to know these things when they
are made plain to the senses, as these trees and hills now are, and your well-shaped form.
This peering into futurity, in the expectation to arrive at certainty, seems to me much as
if one should hope to make out the forms of cities, palaces, and groves, by gazing into the
empty air, or on the clouds. Besides, of what use?'

'Of what use indeed?' added Lucilia. 'I want no director or monitor, concerning any duty or
act, which it falls to me to perform, other than I find within me. I have no need of a divine
messenger, to stand ever at my side, to tell me what I must do, and what I must forbear. I
have within me instincts and impulses, which I find amply sufficient. The care and duty of
every day is very much alike, and a little experience and observation, added to the inward
instinct, makes me quite superior to most difficulties and evils as they arise. The gods, or
whatever power gave us our nature, have not left us dependent for these things, either on what
is called religion or philosophy.'

'What you say,' I rejoined, 'is partly true. The gods have not left us dependent exclusively,
upon either religion, or philosophy. There is a natural religion of the heart and the conscience,
which is born with us, grows up with us, and never forsakes us. But then, after all, how defective
and incomplete a principle it is. It has chiefly to do, only with our daily conduct; it cannot
answer our doubts, or satisfy our most real wants. It differs too with the constitution of
the individual. In some, it is a principle of much greater value and efficacy, than in others.
Your instincts are clear, and powerful, and direct you aright. But, in another, they are obscure,
and weak, and leave the mind in the greatest perplexity. It is by no means all that they want.
Then, are not the prevalent superstitions most injurious in their influences upon the common
mind? Can you doubt, whether more of good or evil, is derived to the soul, from the ideas it
entertains of the character, and providence of the gods? Can you be insensible to the horrible
enormities, and nameless vices, which make a part, even of what is called religion? And is
there no need--if men will have religion in some form--that they should receive it in a better
one? Can you not conceive of such views of God and his worship, of duty, virtue, and immortality
being presented, that they shall strike the mind as reasonable in themselves, and of beneficial
instead of hurtful power, upon being adopted? Can you not imagine your own mind, and the minds
of people generally, to be so devoted to a high and sublime conception of the Divinity, and
of futurity, as to be absolutely incapable of an act, that should displease him, or forfeit
the hope of immortality?'

'Hardly,' said Marcus and Lucilia.

'Well, suppose it were so. Or rather, if you cannot imagine such a state of things, multitudes
can. You are not a fair specimen of our kind, but only of a comparatively small class. Generally--so
I have found it--the mind is seeking about for something better than what any human system
has as yet proposed, and is confident of nothing more than of this, that men may be put in
possession of truths, that shall carry them on as far beyond what their natural instincts now
can do, as these instincts carry them on beyond any point to which the brutes ever arrive.
This, certainly, was my own conviction, before I met with Christianity. Now, Marcus and Lucilia,
what is this Christianity, but a revelation from Heaven, whose aim is to give to you, and to
all, such conceptions of God, and futurity, as I have just spoken of?'--I then, finding that
I had obtained a hearing, went into an account of the religion of Christ, as I had received
it from the books themselves, and which to you I need not repeat. They listened with considerable
patience--though I was careful not to use many words--but without any expression of countenance,
or manner, that indicated any very favorable change in their opinions or feelings. As I ended,
Marcus said,

'I shall always think better of this religion, Lucius, that you have adopted it, though I cannot
say that your adopting it, will raise my judgment of you. I do not at present see upon what
grounds it stands so firm, or divine, that a citizen is defensible in abandoning for it, an
ostensible reception of, and faith in, the existing forms of the State. However, I incline
to allow freedom in these matters to scholars and speculative minds. Let them work out and
enjoy their own fancies--they are a restless, discontented, ambitious herd, and should, for
the sake of their genius, be humored in the particular pursuits where they have placed their
happiness. But, when they leave their proper vocation, and turn propagators and reformers,
and aim at the subversion of things now firmly established and prosperous, then--although I
myself should never meddle in such matters--it is scarcely a question whether the power of
the State should interpose, and lay upon them the necessary restraints. Upon the whole, Lucius
Piso, I think, that I, and Lucilia, had better turn preachers, and exhort you to return to
the faith, or no-faith, which you have abandoned. Leave such things to take care of themselves.
What have you gained but making yourself an object of popular aversion or distrust? You have
abandoned the community of the polite, the refined, the sober, where by nature you belong,
and have associated yourself with a vulgar crew, of--forgive my freedom, I speak the common
judgment, that you may know what it is--of ignorant fanatics or crafty knaves, who care for
you no further, than as by your great name, they may stand a little higher in the world. I
protest, before Jupiter, that to save others like you from such loss, I feel tempted to hunt
over the statute books for some law, now obsolete and forgotten, but not legally dead, that
may be brought to bear upon this mischief, and give it another Decian blight, which, if it
do not kill, may yet check, and obstruct its growth.'

I replied, 'that from him I could apprehend, he well knew, no such deed of folly or guilt--however
likely it was that others might, do it, and glory in their shame; that his nature would save
him from such a deed, though his principles might not.' I told him, moreover, 'that I did not
despair of his looking upon Christianity with a favorable judgment in good time. He had been
willing to hear; and there was that secret charm in the truths and doctrines of Christ's religion,
and especially in his character, that, however rudely set forth, the mind could scarcely resist
it; against its will, it would, oftentimes, find itself subdued and changed. The seeds I have
now dropt upon your hearts, I trust, will some day spring up, and bear such fruit as you yourselves
will rejoice in.'

'So,' said Marcus, 'may the wheat spilled into the Tiber, or sown among rocks, or eaten by
the birds.'

'And that may be, though not to-day or to-morrow,' I replied. 'The seed of things essential
to man's life, as of wheat, is not easily killed. It may be buried for years and years, yet,
turned up at length, to the sun, and its life sprouts upward in leaf, and stem, and fruit.
Borne down by the waters of the Tiber, and apparently lost, it may be cast up upon the shores
of Egypt, or Britain, and fulfil its destiny. The seed of truth is longer-lived still--by reason
that what it bears is more essential than wheat, or other grain, to man's best life.'

'Well, well,' said Marcus, 'let us charge our goblets with the bottom of this Falernian, and
forgetting whether there be such an entity as truth or not, drink to the health of the princess
Julia.'

'That comes nearer our hearts,' said Lucilia, 'than anything that has been spoken for the last
hour. When you return, Lucius, Laco must follow you with a mule-load of some of my homely products'----
She was about to add more, when we were all alike startled and alarmed by cries, seemingly
of deep distress, and rapidly approaching. We sprang from our seats, when the door of the room
was violently flung open, and a slave rushed in, crying out,

'Oh, sir! Gallus--Gallus'--

'What is it? What is it?'--cried Marcus and Lucilia. 'Speak quick--has he fallen--'

'Yes, alas! the pond--the fish-pond--run--fly--'

Distractedly we hurried to the spot already surrounded by a crowd of slaves. 'Who had been
with him? Where had he fallen? How did it happen?' were questions hastily asked, but which
no one could answer. It was a miserable scene of agony, confusion, and despair--Marcus ordering
his slaves to dive into the pond, then uttering curses upon them, and commanding those to whom
Gallus was usually entrusted, to the rack. No one could swim, no one could dive. It was long
since I had made use of an art which I once possessed, but instantly I cast off my upper garments,
and, needing no other direction to the true spot than the barking of the little dog, and his
jumping in and out of the water--first learning that the water was deep, and of an even bottom,
I threw myself in, and, in a moment, guided by the white dress of the little fellow, I grasped
him, and drew him to the surface.

Life was apparently, and probably, to my mind, extinct; but expressing a hope that means might
yet be resorted to that should restore him, I bore him in my arms to the house. But it was
all in vain. Gallus was dead.

       *       *       *       *       *

I shall not inflict a new sadness upon you, Fausta, by describing the grief of my friends,
or any of the incidents of the days and weeks I now passed with them. They were heavy, and
melancholy indeed; for the sorrows, of both Lucilia and Marcus, were excessive and inconsolable.
I could do nothing for them, nor say anything to them in the hope to comfort them; yet, while
they were thus incapacitated for all action, I could serve them essentially by placing myself
at the head of their affairs, and relieving them of common cares and duties, that must otherwise
have been neglected, or have proved irksome and oppressive.

The ashes of Gallus, committed to a small marble urn, have been deposited in a tomb in the
centre of Lucilia's flower garden, which will soon be embowered by flowers and shrubs, which
her hand will delight to train around it.

On the eve of the day when I was to leave them and return to Rome, we sat together in a portico
which overlooks the Tiber. Marcus and Lucilia were sad, but, at length, in some sort, calm.
The first violence of sorrow had spent itself, and reflection was beginning to succeed.

'I suppose,' said Marcus, 'your rigid faith greatly condemns all this show of suffering, which
you have witnessed, Piso, in us, as, if not criminal, at least weak and childish?'

'Not so, by any means,' I rejoined. 'The religion of the Christians, is what one may term a
natural religion; it does violence to not one of the good affections and propensities. Coming,
as we maintain, from the Creator of our bodies and our minds, it does them no injury, it wars
not with any of their natural elements, but most strictly harmonizes with them. It aims to
direct, to modify, to heal, to moderate--but never to alter or annihilate. Love of our offspring,
is not more according to our nature, than grief for the loss of them. Grief, therefore, is
innocent--even as praiseworthy, as love. What trace of human wisdom--much less of divine--would
there be in the arrangement, that should first bind us by chains of affection as strong as
adamant to a child, or a parent, or a friend, and then treat the sorrow as criminal that wept,
with whatever violence, as it saw the links broken and scattered, never again to be joined
together?'

'That certainly is a proof that some just ideas are to be found in your opinions,' replied
my friend. 'By nothing was I ever more irreconcilably offended in the stoical philosophy, than
by its harsh violence towards nature under suffering. To be treated by your philosophy with
rudeness and contempt, because you yield to emotions which are as natural, and, therefore,
in my judgment, as innocent as any, is, as if one were struck with violence by a friend or
a parent, to whom you fled for protection or comfort. The doctrines of all the others failed
in the same way. Even the Epicureans hold it a weakness, and even a wrong, to grieve, seeing
the injury that is thereby done to happiness. Grief must be suppressed, and banished, because
it is accompanied by pain. That too, seemed to me a false sentiment; because, although grief
is indeed in some sort painful, yet it is not wholly so, but is attended by a kind of pleasure.
How plain it is, that I should suffer greatly more, were I forcibly restrained by a foreign
power, or my own, from shedding these tears, and uttering these sighs for Gallus, than I do
now while I am free to indulge my natural feelings. In truth, it is the only pleasure that
grief brings with it--the freedom of indulging it.'

'He,' I said, as Marcus paused, giving way afresh to his sorrow, 'who embraces the Christian
doctrine, is never blamed, condemned, or ridiculed by it for the indulgence of the emotions,
to which, the loss of those whom we love, gives birth. But then, at the same time, he will
probably grieve and suffer much less under such circumstances than you--not, however, because
he is forcibly restrained, but because of the influence upon his mind and his heart, of truths
and opinions, which, as a Christian, he entertains, and which, without any will or act of his
own, work within him and strengthen and console him. The Christian believing, so firmly as
he does, for example, in a God, not only on grounds of reason but of express revelation, and
that this God is a parent, exercising a providence over his creatures, regardless of none,
loving as a parent all, who has created mankind, not for his own amusement or honor, but that
life and happiness might be diffused: they who believe thus, must feel very differently under
adversity, from those who, like yourself, believe nothing of it at all, and from those who,
like the disciples of the Porch and the Academy, believe but an inconsiderable part of it.
Suppose, Marcus and Lucilia, your whole population of slaves were, instead of strangers and
slaves, your children, toward whom you experienced the same sentiments of deep affection that
you did toward Gallus, how would you not consult for their happiness; and how plain it is,
that whatever laws you might set over them, they would be laws of love, the end of which, however
they might not always recognize it, would be their happiness--happiness through their virtue.
This may represent, with sufficient exactness, the light in which Christians regard the Divinity,
and the laws of life under which they find themselves. Admitting, therefore, their faith to
be well founded, and how manifest is it that they will necessarily suffer less under adversity
than you; and not because any violence is done to their nature, but because of the benignant
influences of such truths.'

'What you say,' observed Lucilia, 'affects the mind very agreeably; and gives a pleasing idea,
both of the wisdom and mercy of the Christian faith. It seems at any rate to be suited to such
creatures as we are. What a pity that it is so difficult to discern truth.'

'It is difficult,' I replied; 'the best things are always so: but it is not impossible; what
is necessary to our happiness, is never so. A mind of common powers, well disposed, seeking
with a real desire to find, will rarely retire from the search wholly unsuccessful. The great
essentials to our daily well-being, and the right conduct of life, the Creator has supplied
through our instincts. Your natural religion, of which you have spoken, you find sufficient
for most of the occurrences which arise, both of doing and bearing. But there are other emergencies
for which it is as evidently insufficient. Now, as the Creator has supplied so perfectly in
all breasts the natural religion, which is so essential, it is fair to say and believe, that
He would not make additional truths, almost equally essential to our happiness, either of impossible
attainment, or encompassed by difficulties which could not, with a little diligence and perseverance,
be overcome.'

'It would seem so, certainly,' said Marcus; 'but it is so long since I have bestowed any thought
upon philosophical inquiries, that to me the labor would be very great, and the difficulties
extreme--for, at present, there is scarcely so much as a mere shred or particle of faith, to
which as a nucleus other truths may attach themselves. In truth, I never look even to possess
any clear faith in a God--it seems to be a subject wholly beyond the scope and grasp of my
mind. I cannot entertain the idea of self-existence. I can conceive of God neither as one,
nor as divided into parts. Is he infinite and everywhere, himself constituting his universe?--then
he is scarcely a God; or, is he a being dwelling apart from his works, and watching their obedience
to their imposed laws? In neither of these conceptions can I rest.'

'It is not strange,' I replied; 'nor that, refusing to believe in the fact of a God until you
should be able to comprehend him perfectly, you should to this hour be without faith. If I
had waited before believing, until I understood, I should at this moment be as faithless as
you, or as I was before I received Christianity. Do I comprehend the Deity? Can I describe
the mode of his being? Can I tell you in what manner he sprang into existence? And whether
he is necessarily everywhere in his works, and as it were constituting them? Or whether he
has power to contract himself, and dwell apart from them, their omniscient observer, and omnipotent
Lord? I know nothing of all this; the religion which I receive, teaches nothing of all this.
Christianity does not demonstrate the being of a God, it simply proclaims it; hardly so much
as that indeed. It supposes it, as what was already well known and generally believed. I cannot
doubt that it is left thus standing by itself, untaught and unexplained, only because the subject
is intrinsically incomprehensible by us. It is a great fact or truth, which all can receive,
but which none can explain or prove. If it is not believed, either instinctively, or through
the recognition of it, and declaration of it, in some revelation, it cannot be believed at
all. It needs the mind of God to comprehend God. The mind of man is no more competent to reach
and grasp the theme through reason, than his hands are to mould a sun. All the reasonings,
imaginations, guesses, of self-styled philosophers, are here like the prattlings of children.
They make you smile, but they do not instruct.'

'I fear,' said Marcus, 'I shall then never believe, for I can believe nothing of which I cannot
form a conception.'

'Surely,' I answered, 'our faith is not bounded by our conceptions, or our knowledge, in other
things. We build the loftiest palaces and temples upon foundations of stone, though we can
form no conception whatever of the nature of a stone. So I think we may found a true and sufficient
religion on our belief in the fact of a God, although we can form no conception whatever of
his nature and the mode of his existence.'

But I should fatigue you, Fausta, were I to give you more of our conversation. It ran on equally
pleasant, I believe, to all of us, to a quite late hour; in which time, almost all that is
peculiar to the faith of the Christians came under our review. It was more than midnight when
we rose from our seats to retire to our chambers. But before we did that, a common feeling
directed our steps to the tomb of Gallus, which was but a few paces from where we had been
sitting. There these childless parents again gave way to their grief and was I stone, that
I should not weep with them?

When this act of duty and piety had been performed, we sought our pillows. As for me, I could
not sleep for thinking of my friends and their now desolate house. For even to me, who was
to that child almost a stranger, and had been so little used to his presence, this place is
no longer the same: all its brightness, life, and spirit of gladness, are gone. Everything
seems changed. From every place and scene something seems to have been subtracted to which
they were indebted for whatever it was that made them attractive. If this is so to me, what
must it be to Marcus and Lucilia? It is not difficult to see that a sorrow has settled upon
their hearts, which no length of time can heal. I suppose if all their estates had been swept
away from them in a night, and all their friends, they would not have been so overwhelmed as
by this calamity--in such a wonderful manner were they each woven into the child, and all into
each other, as one being. They seem no longer to me like the same persons. Not that they are
not often calm, and in a manner possessed of themselves; but that even then, when they are
most themselves, there has a dulness, a dreamy absence of mind, a fixed sadness, come over
them that wholly changes them. Though they sit and converse with you, their true thoughts seem
far away. They are kind and courteous as ever, to the common eye, but I can see that all the
relish of life and of intercourse is now to them gone. All is flat and insipid. The friend
is coldly saluted; the meal left untasted, or partaken in silence and soon abandoned; the affairs
of the household left to others, to any who will take charge of them. They tell me that this
will always be so; that however they may seem to others, they must ever experience a sense
of loss; not any less than they would if a limb had been shorn away. A part of themselves,
and of the life of every day and hour, is taken from them.

How strange is all this, even in the light of Christian faith! How inexplicable, we are ready
to say, by any reason of ours, the providence of God in taking away the human being in the
first blossoming; before the fruit has even shown itself, much less ripened! Yet is not immortality,
the hope, the assurance of immortality, a sufficient solution? To me it is. This will not indeed
cure our sorrows--they spring from somewhat wholly independent of futurity, of either the hope,
or despair of it,--but it vindicates the ways of the Omnipotent, and justifies them to our
reason and our affections. Will Marcus and Lucilia ever rejoice in the consolations which flow
from this hope? Alas! I fear not. They seem in a manner to be incapable of belief.

In the morning I shall start for Rome. As soon as there, you shall hear from me again. Farewell.

       *       *       *       *       *

While Piso was absent from Rome on this visit to his friend, it was my fortune to be several
times in the city upon necessary affairs of the illustrious Queen, when I was both at the palace
of Aurelian and that of Piso. It was at one of these later visits, that it became apparent
to me, that the Emperor seriously meditated the imposing of restrictions of some kind upon
the Christians; yet no such purpose was generally apprehended by that sect itself, nor by the
people at large. The dark and disastrous occurrences on the day of the dedication, were variously
interpreted by the people; some believing them to point at the Christians, some at the meditated
expedition of the Emperor, some at Aurelian himself. The popular mind was, however, greatly
inflamed against the Christians, and every art was resorted to by the priests of the temples,
and those who were as bigoted and savage as themselves among the people, to fan to a devouring
flame the little fire that began to be kindled. The voice from the temple, however some might
with Fronto himself doubt whether it were not from Heaven, was for the most part ascribed to
the Christians, although they could give no explanation of the manner in which it had been
produced. But, as in the case of Aurelian himself, this was forgotten in the horror occasioned
by the more dreadful language of the omens, which, in such black and threatening array, no
one remembered ever to have been witnessed before. None thought or talked of anything else.
It was the universal theme.

This may be seen in a conversation which I had with a rustic, whom I overtook as I rode toward
Rome, seated on his mule, burdened on either side and behind with the multifarious produce
of his farm. The fellow, as I drew near to him, seeming of a less churlish disposition than
most of those whom one meets upon the road, who will scarcely return a friendly salute, I feared
not to accost him. After giving him the customary good wishes, I remarked upon the excellence
of the vegetables which he had in his panniers.

'Yes,' he said, 'these lettuces are good, but not what they would have been but for the winds
we have had from the mountains. It has sadly nipped them. I hear the Queen pines away just
as my plants do. I live at Norentum. I know you, sir, though you cannot know me. You pass by
my door on your way to the city. My children often call me from my work to look up, for there
goes the secretary of the good Queen on his great horse. There's no such horse as that on the
road. Ha, ha, my baskets reach but to your knee! Well, there are differences in animals and
in men too. So the gods will it. One rides upon a horse with golden bits, another upon a mule
with none at all. Still I say, let the gods be praised.'

'The gods themselves could hardly help such differences,' I said, 'if they made one man of
more natural strength, or more natural understanding than another. In that case one would get
more than another. And surely you would not have men all run in one mould--all five feet high,
all weighing so much, all with one face, and one form, one heart, and one head! The world were
then dull enough.'

'You say true,' he replied; 'that is very good. If we were all alike, there would be no such
thing as being rich or poor--no such thing as getting or losing. I fear it would be dull enough,
as you say. But I did not mean to complain, sir. I believe I am contented with my lot. So long
as I can have my little farm, with my garden and barns, my cattle and my poultry, a kind neighbor
or so, and my priest and temple, I care for nothing more.'

'You have a temple then at Norentum?'

'Yes, to Jupiter Pluvius. And a better priest has not Rome itself. It is his brother, some
officer of the Emperor's, I take these vegetables to. I hope to hear more this morning of what
I heard something when I was last at market. And I think I shall, for, as I learn, the city
is a good deal stirred since the dedication the other day.' 'I believe it is,' I answered.
'But of what do you look to hear, if I may ask? Is there news from the East?'

'O no, I think not of the East or the South. It was of something to be done about these Christians.
Our temple, you must know, is half forsaken and more, of late. I believe that half the people
of Norentum, if the truth were known, have turned Christians or Jews. Unless we wake up a little,
our worship cannot be supported, and our religion will be gone. And glad am I to hear, through
our priest, that even the Emperor is alarmed, and believes something must be done. You know,
than he, there is not a more devout man in Rome. So it is said. And one thing that makes me
think so, is this. The brother of our priest, where I am going with these vegetables--here
is poultry too, look! you never saw fatter, I warrant you--told him that he knew it for certain,
that the Emperor meant to make short work with even his own niece--you know who I mean--Aurelia,
who has long been suspected to be a Christian. And that's right. If he punishes any, he ought
not to spare his own.'

'That I suppose would be right. But why should he punish any? You need not be alarmed or offended;
I am no Christian.'

'The gods be praised therefor! I do not pretend to know the whole reason why. But that seems
to be the only way of saving the old religion; and I don't know what way you can possibly have
of showing that a religion of yesterday is true, if a religion of a thousand years old is to
be made out false. If religion is good for anything--and I for one think it is--I think men
ought to be compelled to have it and support it, just as they should be to eat wholesome food,
rather than poisonous or hurtful. The laws won't permit us to carry certain things to market,
nor others in a certain state. If we do, we are fined or imprisoned. Treat a Christian in the
same way, say I. Let them just go thoroughly to work, and our temples will soon be filled again.'

'But these Christians,' I observed, 'seem to be a harmless people.'

'But they have no religion, that anybody can call such. They have no gods, nor altars, nor
sacrifices; such can never be harmless. To be sure, as to sacrifices, I think there is such
a thing as doing too much. I am not for human sacrifices. Nor do I see the need of burning
up a dozen fat oxen or heifers, as was done the other day at the Temple of the Sun. We in Norentum
burn nothing but the hoofs and some of the entrails, and the rest goes to the priest for his
support. As I take it, a sacrifice is just a sign of readiness to do everything and lose everything
for the gods. We are not expected to throw either ourselves, or our whole substance upon the
altar; making the sign is sufficient. But, as I said, these Christians have no altar and no
sacrifice, nor image of god or goddess. They have, at Norentum, an old ruinous building--once
a market--where they meet for worship; but those who have been present say, that nothing is
to be seen; and nothing heard but prayers--to what god no one knows--and exhortations of the
priests. Some say, that elsewhere they have what they call an altar, and adorn their walls
with pictures and statues. However all this may be, there seems to be some charm about them,
or their worship, for all the world is running after them. I long for the news I shall get
from Varenus Hirtius. If these omens have not set the Emperor at work for us, nothing will.
Here we are at the gates, and I turn toward the Claudian market. May the day go happily with you.'

So we parted; and I bent my way toward the gardens of Sallust.

As I moved slowly along through the streets, my heart was filled with pity for this people,
the Christians; threatened, as it seemed to me, with a renewal of the calamities that had so
many times swept over them before. They had ever impressed me as a simple-minded, virtuous
community, of notions too subtle for the world ever to receive, but which, upon themselves,
appeared to exert a power altogether beneficial. Many of this faith I had known well, and they
were persons to excite my highest admiration for the characters which they bore. Need I name
more than the princess Julia, and her husband, the excellent Piso? Others like them, what wonder
if inferior! had also, both in Palmyra, and at Tibur and Rome--for they were to be found everywhere--drawn
largely both on my respect and my affections. I beheld with sorrow the signs which now seemed
to portend suffering and disaster. And my sympathies were the more moved seeing that never
before had there been upon the throne a man who, if he were once entered into a war of opposition
against them, had power to do them greater harm, or could have proved a more stern and cruel
enemy. Not even Nero or Domitian were in their time to be so much dreaded. For if Aurelian
should once league him with the state against them, it would not with him be matter of mere
cruel sport, but of conscience. It would be for the honor of the gods, the protection of religion,
the greatness and glory of the empire, that he would assail and punish them; and the same fierce
and bloody spirit that made him of all modern conquerors the bloodiest and fiercest, it was
plain would rule him in any encounter with this humble and defenceless tribe. I could only
hope that I was deceived, as well as others, in my apprehensions, or, if that were not so,
pray that the gods would be pleased to take their great subject to themselves.

Full of such reflections and emotions I arrived at the palace, and was ushered into the presence
of Livia. There was with her the melancholy Aurelia--for such she always seems--who appeared
to have been engaged in earnest talk with the Empress, if one might judge by tears fast falling
from her eyes. The only words which I caught as I entered were these from Aurelia, 'but, dear
lady, if Mucapor require it not, why should others think of it so much? Were he fixed, then
should I indeed have to ask strength of God for the trial--' then, seeing me, and only receiving
my salutations, she withdrew.

Livia, after first inquiring concerning Zenobia and Faustula, returning to what had just engaged
her, said,

'I wish, good Nicomachus, that I had your powers of speech, of which, as you can remember,
I have been witness in former days--those happy days in Syria--when you used, so successfully,
to withstand and subdue my giddy or headstrong mind. Here have I been for weary hours--not
weary neither, for their aim has, I am sure, been a worthy one--but, here have I been persuading,
with all the reason and eloquence I could bring to bear, this self-willed girl to renounce
these fantastic notions she has imbibed from the Christians, and their books, were it only
for the sake of domestic peace. Aurelian is growing daily more and more exasperated against
this obscure tribe, and drops, oftener than I love to hear them, dark hints of what awaits
them, not excepting, he says, any of whatever rank or name. Not that I suppose that either
he, or the senate, would proceed further than imprisonments, banishment, suppression of free
speech, the destruction of books and churches; so much indeed I understand from him. But even
thus far, and we might lose Aurelia--a thing not to be thought of for a moment. He has talked
with her himself, reasoned with her, threatened her; but in vain. Now he has imposed the same
task upon me--it is equally in vain. I know not what to do.'

'Because,' I replied, 'nothing can be done. Where it is possible to see, you have eyes within
you that can penetrate the thickest darkness as well as any. But here you fail; but only where
none could succeed. A sincere honest mind, princess, is not to be changed either by persuasion
or force. Its belief is not subject to the will. Aurelia, if I have heard aright, is a Christian
from conviction. Evidence made her a Christian--stronger evidence on the side of her former
faith can alone unmake her.'

'I cannot reason with her to that extent, Nicomachus,' replied the Empress. 'I know not the
grounds of the common faith, any more than those of Christianity. I only know that I wish Aurelia
was not a Christian. Will you, Nicomachus, reason with her? I remember your logic of old.'

'Alas, princess, I can engage in no such task! Where I have no faith myself, I should in vain
attempt to plant it in others. How, either, can I desire that any mind should remain an hour
longer oppressed by the childish and abominable superstitions which prevail in Rome? I cannot
but congratulate the excellent Aurelia, so far as the question of truth is concerned, that
in the place of the infinite stupidities of the common religion, she has received the, at least,
pure and reasonable doctrines of the Christians. You cannot surely, princess, desire her re-conversion?'

'Only for her own sake, for the sake of her safety, comfort, happiness.'

'But in her judgment these are best and only secured where she now is. How thinks Mucapor?'

'As I believe,' answered Livia, 'he cares not in the matter, save for her happiness. He will
not wish that she should have any faith except such as she herself wishes. I have urged him
to use his power to constrain her, but he loves liberty himself too dearly, he says, to put
force upon another.'

'That is right and noble,' I said; 'it is what I should have looked for from Mucapor.'

'In good sooth, Nicomachus, I believe you still take me but for what I was in Palmyra. Who am I?'

'From a princess you have become an Empress, Empress of Rome, that I fully understand, and
I trust never to be wanting in the demeanor that best becomes a subject; but you are still
Livia, the daughter of Zenobia, and to her I feel I can never fear to speak with sincerity.'

'How omnipotent, Nicomachus, are simplicity and truth! They subdue me when I most would not.
They have conquered me in Aurelia and now in you. Well, well, Aurelia then must take the full
weight of her uncle's wrath, which is not light.'

At this moment Aurelian himself entered, accompanied by Fronto. Livia, at the same time, arose
and withdrew, not caring, I thought, to meet the eyes of that basilisk, who, with the cunning
of a priest, she saw to be usurping a power over Aurelian which belonged of right to her. I
was about also to withdraw, but the Emperor constraining me, as he often does, I remained,
although holding the priest in still greater abhorrence, I believe, than Livia herself.

'While you have been absent from the city, Fronto,' said Aurelian, 'I have revolved the subjects
upon which we last conversed, and no longer doubt where lie, for me, both duty, and the truest
glory. The judgment of the colleges, lately rendered, agrees both with yours and mine. So that
the very finger of the god we worship points the way.'

'I am glad,' replied Fronto, 'for myself, for you, for Rome, and for the world, that truth
possesses and is to sway you. It will be a great day for Rome, greater than when your triumphal
array swept through the streets with the world at your chariot-wheels, when the enemy that
had so long waged successful war within the very gates, shall lie dead as the multitudes of
Palmyra.'

'It will, Fronto. But first I have this to say, and, by the gods, I believe it true, that it
is the corruptions of our own religion and its ministers, that is the offence that smells to
heaven, quite as much as the presumptuous novelties of this of Judea. I perceive you neither
assent to this nor like it. But it is true, I am persuaded, as the gods themselves. I have
long thought so; and, while with one hand, I aim at the Gallilean atheism, with the other,
I shall aim at those who dishonor, by their vices and hypocrisies, the religion they profess
to serve.'

Fronto was evidently disturbed. His face grew pale as the frown gathered and darkened on the
brow of Aurelian. He answered not, and Aurelian went on.

'Hellenism, Fronto, is disgraced, and its very life threatened by the vices of her chief ministers.
The gods forgive me! in that, while I have purged my legions of drunkards and adulterers, I
have left them in the temples. Truly did you say, I have had but one thought in my mind, I
have looked but to one quarter of the heavens. My eyes are now unsealed, and I see both ways,
and every way. How can we look for the favor of the gods, while their houses of worship, I
speak it, Fronto, with sorrow and indignation, but with the knowledge too of the truth of what
I say, are houses of appointment while the very inner sanctuaries, and the altars themselves,
are little better than the common stews, while the priests are the great fathers of iniquity,
corrupters of innocence, the seducers of youth, examples themselves, beyond the fear of rivalry,
of all the vice they teach! At their tables, too, who so swollen with meats and drink as the
priests? Who, but they, are a by-word, throughout the city, for all that is vilest? What word
but priest, stands, with all, as an abbreviation and epitome, of whatever pollutes, and defiles
the name of man? Porphyrius says 'that since Jesus has been worshipped in Rome no one has found
by experience the public assistance of the gods.' I believe it; and Rome will never again experience
it till this black atheism is rooted out. But it is as true, I doubt not, that since their
ministers have become ministers of demons, and, from teachers of morals, have turned instructers
in vice--for this reason too, as well as for the other, the justly offended deities of Rome
have hid themselves from their impious worshippers. Here then, Fronto, is a double labor to
be undergone, a double duty to be done, not less than some or all of the labors of Hercules.
We are set for this work, and, not till I have begun it--if not finished--will I so much as
dream of Persia. What say you?'

Fronto looked like one who had kindled a larger flame than he intended, or knew well how to manage.

'The faults of which you speak, great Emperor, it can be denied by none, are found in Rome,
and can never be other than displeasing to the gods. But then, I would ask, when was it ever
otherwise? In the earlier ages of the republic, I grant, there was a virtue in the people which
we see not now. But that grew not out of the purer administration of religion, but was the
product of the times in part--times, in comparison with these, of a primeval simplicity. To
live well, was easier then. Where no temptation is, virtue is easy, is necessary. But then
it ceases to be virtue. It is a quality, not an acquisition--a gift of the gods, an accident,
rather than man's meritorious work.'

'That is very true--well.'

'There may be as much real virtue now, as then. May it not be so?'

'Perhaps--it may. What then?'

'Our complaints of the present, should be softened. But, what chiefly I would urge is this,
that since those ages of early virtue--after all, perhaps, like all else at the same period,
partly fabulous--Rome has been but what it is, adorned by virtues that have claimed the admiration
of the world, and polluted by vices that have drawn upon her the reprobation of the good, yet,
which are but such as the world shows its surface over, from the farthest India, to the bleak
wastes of Britain. It is, Aurelian, a thing neither strange nor new that vices thrive in Rome.
And, long since, have there been those, like Nerva and the good Severus, and the late censor
Valerian, who have aimed at their correction. These, and others who, before and since, have
wrought in the same work, have done well for the empire. Their aim has been a high one, and
the favor of the gods has been theirs. Aurelian may do more and better in the same work, seeing
his power is greater and his piety more zealous.'

'These are admitted truths, Fronto, save the last; but whither do they tend?'

'To this. Because, Aurelian, vice has been in Rome; because even the priesthood has been corrupt,
and the temples themselves the sties you say they now are--for this, have the gods ever withdrawn
their protection? Has Rome ever been the less prosperous? What is more, can we conceive that
they who made us of their own fiery mould, so prone to violate the bounds of moderation, would,
for yielding to such instincts, interpose in wrath, as if that had happened which was not foreseen,
and against which, they had made sure provision? Are the heavens to blaze with the fires of
the last day, thunders to roll as if earth were shaken to her centre, the entrails of dumb
beasts to utter forth terrific prophecy of great and impending wo, because, forsooth, the people
of Rome are by no means patterns of purity--because, perchance, within the temples themselves,
an immorality may have been purposed, or perpetrated--because, even the priests themselves
have not been, or are not, white and spotless as their robes?'

'There seems some reason in what you say.'

'But, great Emperor, take me not as if I would make myself the shield of vice, to hide it from
the blow that would extirpate or cure it. I see, and bewail, the corruptions of the age; but,
as they seem not fouler than those of ages which are past, especially than those of Nero and
of Commodus, I cannot think that it is against these the gods have armed themselves, but, Aurelian,
against an evil which has been long growing, and often assailed and checked, but which has
now got to such giant size and strength, that except it be absolutely hewn down, and the least
roots torn up and burned, both the altars of our gods, and their capital, called Eternal, and
the empire itself, now holding the world in its wide-spread, peace-giving arms, are vanished,
and anarchy, impiety, atheism, and the rank vices, which in such times would be engendered,
will then reign omnipotent, and fill the very compass of the earth, Christ being the universal
king! It is against this the heavens have arrayed their power; and to arouse an ungrateful,
thoughtless, impious people, with their sleeping king, that they have spoken in thunder.'

'Fronto, I almost believe you right.'

'Had we, Aurelian, but the eyes of moles, when the purposes of the gods are to be deciphered
in the character of events, we should long since have seen that the series of disasters which
have befallen the empire since the Gallilean atheism has taken root here, have pointed but
to that--that they have been a chastisement of our supineness and sloth. When did Rome, almighty
Rome, ever before tremble at the name of barbarian, or fly before their arms? While now, is
it not much that we are able to keep them from the very walls of the Capital? They now swarm
the German forests in multitudes, which no man can count; their hoarse murmurs can be heard
even here, ready, soon as the reins of empire shall fall into the hands of another Gallienus,
to pour themselves upon the plains of Italy, changing our fertile lands and gorgeous cities
into another Dacia. These things were not so once; and what cause there is in Rome, so deep,
and high, and broad, to resolve for us the reason of this averted face of heaven, save that
of which I speak, I cannot guess.'

'Nor I,' said Aurelian; 'I confess it. It must be so My work is not three, nor two; but one.
I have brought peace to the empire in all its borders. My legions all rest upon their arms.
Not a sword, but is in its sheath--there, for the present, let it be glued fast. The season,
so propitious for the great work of bringing again the empire into peace and harmony with the
angry gods, seems to have been provided by themselves. How think you, Nicomachus?'--turning
suddenly to me, as if now, for the first time, aware that I was standing at his side.

I answered, 'that I was slow to receive the judgment of Fronto or of himself in that matter.
That I could not believe that the gods, who should be examples of the virtues to mankind, would
ever ordain such sufferings for their creatures as must ensue, were the former violences to
be renewed against the Christians. So far from thinking them a nuisance in the state, I considered
them a benefit.'

'The Greek too,' said Fronto, breaking in, 'is then a Christian.'

'I am not a Christian, priest, nor, as I think, shall ever be one; but, far sooner would I
be one, than take my faith from thee, which, however it might guide me well through the wine
vaults of the temple, or to the best stalls of the market, or to the selectest retreats of
the suburra, would scarce show the way to heaven. I affront but the corruptions of religion,
Aurelian. Sincerity I honor everywhere. Hypocrisy nowhere.' I thought Fronto would have torn
me with his teeth and nails. His white face grew whiter, but he stood still.

'Say on,' said the Emperor, 'though your bluntness be more even than Roman.'

'I think,' I continued, 'the Christians a benefit to the state, for this reason; not that their
religion is what they pretend, a heaven-descended one, but that, by its greater strictness,
it serves to rebuke the common faith and those who hold it, and infuse into it something of
its own spirit. All new systems, as I take it, in their first beginning are strict and severe.
It is thus by this quality they supersede older and degenerate ones; not because they are truer,
but because they are purer. There is a prejudice among men, that the gods, whoever they may
be, and whatever they may be, love virtue in men, and for that accept them. When, therefore,
a religion fails to recommend and enforce virtue, it fails to meet the judgment of men concerning
the true character and office of a religion, and so with the exception of such beasts, and
such there always are, who esteem a faith in proportion to its corruptions, they look with
favor upon any new one which promises to be what they want. It is for this reason that this
religion from Judea has made its way so far and so soon. But, it will, by and by, degenerate
from its high estate, just as others have done, and be succeeded by another that shall raise
still higher expectations. In the meantime, it serves the state well, both by the virtue which
it enjoins upon its own subjects, and the influence it exerts, by indirection, upon those of
the prevalent faiths, and upon the general manners and morals.'

'What you say,' observed Aurelian musingly, 'has some show of sense. So much, at least, may
be said for this religion.'

'Yet a lie,' said Fronto, 'can be none the less hateful to the gods, because it sometime plays
the part of truth. It is a lie still.'

'Hold,' said Aurelian, 'let us hear the Greek. What else?'

'I little thought,' I replied, 'as I rode toward the city this morning, that I should at this
hour be standing in the presence of the Emperor of Rome, a defender of the Christians. I am
in no manner whatever fitted for the task. My knowledge is nothing; my opinions, therefore,
worth but little, grounded as they are upon the loose reports which reach my ear concerning
the character and doctrines of this sect, or upon what little observation I have made upon
those whom I have known of that persuasion. Still, I honor and esteem them, and such aid as
I can bring them in their straits, shall be very gladly theirs. I will, however, add one thing
more to what I have said in answer to Fronto, who represents the gods as more concerned to
destroy the Christians than to reform the common religion and the public morals. I cannot think
that. Am I to believe that the gods, the supreme directors of human affairs, whose aim must
be man's highest well-being, regard with more abhorrence an error than a vice?--an error too
that acts more beneficently than most truth, and is the very seed of the purest virtues? I
can by no means believe it. So that if I were interpreter of the late omens, I should rather
see them pointed at the vices which prevail; at the corruptions of the public morals, which
are fouler than aught I had so much as dreamed of before I was myself a witness of them, and
may well be supposed to startle the gods from their rest, and draw down their hottest thunderbolts.
But I will not say more, when there must be so many able to do so much better in behalf of
what I must still believe to be a good cause. Let me entreat the Emperor, before he condemns,
to hear. There are those in Rome, of warm hearts, sound heads, and honest souls, from whom,
if from any on earth, truth may be heard, and who will set in its just light a doctrine too
excellent to suffer, as it must, in my hands.'

'They shall be heard, Nicomachus. Not even a Jew or a Christian shall suffer without that grace;
though I see not how it can avail.'

'If it should not avail to plant in your mind so good an opinion of their way as exists in
mine,' I resumed, 'it might yet to soften it, and dispose it to a more lenient conduct; and
so many are the miseries of life in the natural order of events, that the humane heart must
desire to diminish, not increase them. Has Aurelian ever heard the name of Probus the Christian?'

The Emperor turned toward Fronto with a look of inquiry.

'Yes,' said the priest, 'you have heard his name. But that of Felix, the bishop of the Christians,
as he is called, is more familiar to you.'

'Felix, Felix, that is the name I have heard most, but Probus too, if I err not.'

'He has been named to you, I am certain,' added Fronto. 'He is the real head of the Nazarenes,--the
bishop, but a painted one.'

'Probus is he who turned young Piso's head. Is it not so?'

'The very same; and beside his, the lady Julia's.'

'No, that was by another, one Paul of Antioch, also a bishop and a fast friend of the Queen.
The Christians themselves have of late set upon him, as they were so many blood-hounds, being
bent upon expelling him from Antioch. It is not long since, in accordance with the decree of
some assembled bishops there, I issued a rescript dislodging him from his post, and planting
in his place one Domnus. If our purposes prosper, the ejected and dishonored priest may find
himself at least safer if humbler. Probus,--I shall remember him. The name leads my thoughts
to Thrace, where our greater Probus waits for me.'

'From Probus the Christian,' I said, 'you will receive,' whenever you shall admit him to your
presence, a true account of the nature of the Christians' faith and of the actual condition
of their community--all which, can be had only from a member of it.'

But little more was said, when I departed, and took my way again towards Tibur.

It seemed to me, from the manner of the Emperor more than from what he said, that he was settled
and bound up to the bad work of an assault upon the Christians. To what extent it was in his
mind to go, I could not judge; for his language was ambiguous, and sometimes contradictory.
But that the darkest designs were harbored by him, over which he was brooding with a mind naturally
superstitious, but now almost in a state of exasperation, from the late events, was most evident.

LETTER VI.

FROM PISO TO FAUSTA.

Having confined myself, in my last letter, to the affairs of Marcus and Lucilia, I now, Fausta,
turn to those which concern us and Rome.

I found, on my return to the city, that the general anxiety concerning the designs of Aurelian
had greatly increased. Many rumors were current of dark sayings of his, which, whether founded
in truth or not, contributed to alarm even the most hopeful, and raise serious apprehensions
for the fate of this much and long-suffering religion. Julia herself partakes--I cannot say
of the alarm--but of the anxiety. She has less confidence than I have in the humanity of the
Emperor. In the honours heaped upon Zenobia, and the favors shown herself and Vabalathus, she
sees, not so much the outpouring of benevolent feeling, as a rather ostentatious display of
imperial generosity, and, what is called, Roman magnanimity. For the true character of the
man she looks into the graves of Palmyra, upon her smoking ruins, and upon the blood, yet hardly
dry, that stains the pavements of the Coelian. Julia may be right, though I am unwilling to
believe it. Her judgment is entitled to the more weight in this severe decision, that it is
ever inclined to the side of a too favorable opinion of character and motive. You know her
nature too well, to believe her capable of exaggerating the faults of even the humblest. Yet,
though such are her apprehensions, she manifests the same calm and even carriage as on the
approach of more serious troubles in Palmyra. She is full of deepest interest in the affairs
of the Christians, and by many families of the poorer sort is resorted to continually for aid,
for counsel, or sympathy. Not one in the whole community is a more frequent and devout attendant
upon the services of the church; and, I need not add, that I am her constant companion. The
performance of this duty gives a value to life in Rome such as it never had before. Every seventh
day, as with the Jews, only upon a different day of the week, do the Christians assemble for
the purposes of religious worship. And, I can assure you, it is with no trifling accession
of strength for patient doing and patient bearing, that we return to our every-day affairs,
after having listened to the prayers, the reasonings, or exhortations of Probus.

So great is the difference in my feelings and opinions from what they were before I left Rome
for Palmyra, that it is with difficulty I persuade myself that I am the same person. Between
Piso the Pyrronist and Piso the Christian, the distance seems immeasurable--yet in how short
a time has it been past. I cannot say that I did not enjoy existence and value it in my former
state, but I can say that my enjoyment of it is infinitely heightened as a Christian, and the
rate at which I value it infinitely raised. Born and nurtured as I was, with Portia for my
mother, a palace for my home, Rome for my country and capital, offering all the luxuries of
the earth, and affording all the means I could desire for carrying on researches in study of
every kind, surrounded by friends of the noblest and best families in the city,--I could not
but enjoy life in some very important sense. While mere youth lasted, and my thoughts never
wandered beyond the glittering forms of things, no one could be happier or more contented.
All was fair and beautiful around me--what could I ask for more? I was satisfied and filled.
But, by and by, my dream of life was disturbed--my sleep broken. Natural questions began to
propose themselves for my solution, such, I suppose, as, sooner or later, spring up in every
bosom. I began to speculate about myself--about the very self that had been so long, so busy,
about everything else beside itself. I wished to know something of myself--of my origin, my
nature, my present condition, my ultimate fate. It seemed to me I was too rare and curious
a piece of work to go to ruin, final and inevitable--perhaps to-morrow--at all events in a
very few years. Of futurity I had heard--and of Elysium--just as I had heard of Jupiter, greatest
and best, but, with my earliest youth, these things had faded from my mind, or had already
taken upon themselves the character of fable. My Virgil, in which I early received my lessons
of language, at once divested them of all their air of reality, and left them naked fiction.
The other poets, Livy helping them, continued the same work and completed it. But, bent with
most serious and earnest desires toward truth on what seemed to me the greatest theme, I could
not remain where I was, and turned with highest expectations to the philosophers. I not only
read, but I studied and pondered them with diligence, and with as sincere a desire of arriving
at truth as ever scholar sat at the feet of his instructer. The result was anything but satisfying,
I ended a universal sceptic, so far as human systems of philosophy were concerned, so far as
they pretended to solve the enigma of God and man, of life and death; but with a heart, nevertheless,
yearning after truth; and even full of faith, if that may be called faith which would instinctively
lay hold upon a God and a hope of immortality; and, though beaten back once and again, by every
form which the syllogism could assume, still keep its hold.

This was my state, Fausta, when I was found by Christianity. Without faith, and yet with it;
doubting, and yet believing; rejecting philosophy, but leaning upon nature; dissatisfied, but
hoping. I cannot easily find words to tell you the change which Christian faith has wrought
within me. All I can say is this, that I am now a new man; I am made over again; I am born
as it were into another world. Where darkness once was, there is now light brighter than the
sun. Where doubt was, there is now certainty. I have knowledge and truth, for error and perplexity.
The inner world of my mind is resplendent with a day whose luminary will never set. And even
the outer world of appearances and forms shines more gloriously, and has an air of reality
which before it never had. It used to seem to me like the gorgeous fabric of a dream, and as
if, at some unexpected moment, it might melt into air and nothingness, and I, and all men and
things, with it; for there appeared to be no purpose in it; it came from nothing, it achieved
nothing, and certainly seemed to conduct to nothing. Men, like insects, came and went; were
born, and died, and that was all. Nothing was accomplished, nothing perfected. But now, nature
seems to me stable, and eternal as God himself. The world being the great birth-place and nursery
of these myriads of creatures, made, as I ever conceived, in a divine likeness, after some
godlike model,--for what spirit of other spheres can be more beautiful than a perfect man,
or a perfect woman--each animated with the principle of immortality--there is a reason for
its existence, and its perpetuity, from whose force the mind cannot escape. It is, and it ever
will be; and mankind upon it, a continually happier, and more virtuous brotherhood.

Yes, Fausta, to me as a Christian, everything is new everything better; the inward world, the
outward world, the present, and the future. Life is a worthier gift, and a richer possession.
I am to myself an object of a thousand-fold greater interest; and every other human being,
from a poor animal, that was scarce worthy its wretched existence, starts up into a god, for
whom the whole earth may, one day, become too narrow a field either to till, or rule. I am,
accordingly, ready to labor both for myself and others. I once held myself too cheap to do
much even for myself; for others, I would do nothing, except to feed the hunger that directly
appealed to me, or relieve the wretchedness that made me equally wretched. Not so now. I myself
am a different being, and others are different. I am ready to toil for such beings; to suffer
for them. They are too valuable to be neglected, abused, insulted, trodden into the dust. They
must be defended and rescued, whenever their fellow-men--wholly ignorant of what they are,
and what themselves are about--would oppress them. More than all, do they need truth, effectually
to enlighten and redeem them, and truth they must have at whatever cost. Let them only once
know what they are, and the world is safe. Christianity tells them this, and Christianity they
must have. The State must not stand between man and truth! or, if it do, it must be rebuked
by those who have the knowledge and the courage, and made to assume its proper place and office.
Knowing what has been done for me by Christian truth, I can never be content until to others
the same good is at least offered; and I shall devote what power and means I possess to this
task. The prospect now is of opposition and conflict. But it dismays not me, nor Julia, nor
any of this faith who have truly adopted its principles. For, if the mere love of fame, the
excitement of a contest, the prospect of pay or plunder, will carry innumerable legions to
the battle-field to leave there their bones, how much more shall the belief of a Christian
arm him for even worse encounters? It were pitiful indeed, if a possession, as valuable as
this of truth, could not inspire a heroism, which the love of fame or of money can.

These things I have said, to put you fully in possession of our present position, plans, and
purposes. The fate of Christianity is to us now as absorbing an interest, as once was the fate
of Palmyra.

       *       *       *       *       *

I had been in the city only long enough to give Julia a full account of my melancholy visit
in the country, and to write a part of it to you, when I walked forth to observe for myself
the signs which the city might offer, either to confirm, or allay, the apprehensions which
were begun to be felt.

I took my way over the Palatine, desiring to see the excellent Tacitus, whose house is there.
He was absent, being suddenly called to Baiæ. I turned toward the Forum, wishing to perform
a commission for Julia at the shop of Civilis--still alive, and still compounding his sweets--which
is now about midway between the slope of the hill and the Forum, having been removed from its
former place where you knew it, under the eaves of the Temple of Peace. The little man of 'smells'
was at his post, more crooked than ever, but none the less exquisitely arrayed; his wig befitting
a young Bacchus, rather than a dried shred of a man beyond his seventieth year. All the gems
of the east glittered on his thin fingers, and diamonds, that might move the envy of Livia,
hung from his ears. The gales of Arabia, burdened with the fragrance of every flower of that
sunny clime, seemed concentrated into an atmosphere around him; and, in truth, I suppose a
specimen of every pot and phial of his vast shop, might be found upon his person concealed
in gold boxes, or hanging in the merest fragments of bottles upon chains of silver or gold,
or deposited in folds of his ample robes. He was odor in substantial form. He saluted me with
a grace, of which he only in Rome is master, and with a deference that could not have been
exceeded had I been Aurelian. I told him that I wished to procure a perfume of Egyptian origin
and name, called Cleopatra's tears, which was reputed to convey to the organs of smell, an
odor more exquisite than that of the rarest Persian rose, or choicest gums of Arabia. The eyes
of Civilis kindled with the fires of twenty--when love's anxious brow is suddenly cleared up
by that little, but all comprehensive word, yes--as he answered,

'Noble Piso, I honor you. I never doubted your taste. It is seen in your palace, in your dress,
nay, in the very costume of your incomparable slave, who has done me the honor to call here
in your service. But now have you given of it the last and highest proof. Never has the wit
of man before compounded an essence like that which lies buried in this porphyry vase.'

'You do not mean that I am to take away a vase of that size? I do not purchase essences by
the pound!'

Civilis seemed as if he would have fainted, so oppressed was he by this display of ignorance.
My character, I found, was annihilated in a moment. When his presence of mind was recovered,
he said,

'This vase? Great Jupiter! The price of your palace upon the Coelian would scarce purchase
it! Were its contents suddenly let loose, and spilled upon the air, not Rome only, but Italy,
would be bathed in the transporting, life-giving fragrance! Now I shall remove the cover, first
giving you to know, that within this larger vase there is a number of smallest bottles, some
of glass, others of gold, in each of which are contained a few of the tears, and which are
warranted to retain their potency, and lend their celestial peculiarity to your clothes or
your apartments, without loss or diminution in the least appreciable degree, during the life
of the purchaser. Now, if it please you, bend this way, and receive the air which I shall presently
set free. How think you, noble Piso? Art not a new man?

'I am new in my knowledge such as it is Civilis. It is certainly agreeable, most agreeable.'

'Agreeable! So is mount Etna a pretty hill! So is Aurelian a fair soldier! so is the sun a
good sized brazier! I beseech thee, find another word. Let it not go forth to all Rome, that
the most noble Piso deems the tears of Cleopatra agreeable!'

'I can think no otherwise,' I replied. 'It is really agreeable, and reminds me, more than anything
else, of the oldest Falernian, just rubbed between the palms of the hand, which you will allow
is to compliment it in no moderate measure. But confess now, Civilis, that you have an hundred
perfumes more delicious than this.'

'Piso, I may say this,--they have been so.'

'Ah, I understand you; you admit then, that it is the force of fashion that lends this extraordinary
odor to the porphyry vase.'

'Truly, noble Piso, it has somewhat to do with it, it must be acknowledged.'

'It would be curious, Civilis, to know what name this bore, and in what case it was bestowed,
and at what price sold, before the Empress Livia fancied it. I think it should have been named,
'Livia's smiles.' It would, at any rate, be a good name for it at thy shop in Alexandria.'

'You are facetious, noble Piso. But that last hint is too good to be thrown away. Truly, you
are a man of the world, whose distinction I suppose is, that he has eyes in the hind part of
his head, as well as before. But what blame can be mine for such dealing? I am driven; I am
a slave. It is fashion, that works these wonders, not I. And there is no goddess, Piso, like
her. She is the true creator. Upon that which is worthless, can she bestow, in a moment, inestimable
value. What is despised to-day, she can exalt to-morrow to the very pinnacle of honor. She
is my maker. One day I was poor, the goddess took me by the hand, and smiled upon me, and the
next day I was rich. It was the favorite mistress of Maximin, who, one day--her chariot, Piso,
so chance would have it, broke down at my door, when she took refuge in my little shop, then
at the corner of the street Castor as you turn towards the Tiber--purchasing a particular perfume,
of which I had large store, and boasted much to her, gave me such currency among the rich and
noble, that, from that hour, my fortune was secure. No one bought a perfume afterwards but
of Civilis. Civilis was soon the next person to the Emperor. And, to this hour, has this same
goddess befriended me. And many an old jar, packed away in the midst of rubbish in dark recesses
now valueless, do I look upon as nevertheless so much gold--its now despised contents one day
to disperse themselves upon kings and nobles, in the senate and the theatres. I need not tell
you what this diminutive bottle might have been had for, before the Kalends. Yet, by Hercules,
should I have sold it even then for less? for should I not have divined its fortune? The wheel
is ever turning, turning. But, most excellent Piso, men of the world are ever generous--'

'Fear nothing, Civilis, I will not betray you. I believe you have spoken real truths. Besides,
with Livia on your side, and what could all Rome do to hurt you?'

'Most true, most true. But, may I ask--for one thing has made me astonished--how is it that
you, being now, as report goes, a Christian, should come to me to purchase essences? When I
heard you had so named yourself, I looked to lose your custom forever after.'

'Why should not a Christian man smell of that which is agreeable, as well as another?'

'Ah, that I cannot say. I have heard--I know nothing, Piso, beyond essences and perfumes--but,
I have heard, that the Christians forbear such things, calling them vanities; just as they
withdraw too, 'tis said, from the theatres and the circuses.'

'They do, indeed, withdraw from the theatres and circuses, Civilis, because the entertainments
witnessed there do, as they judge, serve but to make beasts of men; they minister to vice.
But in a sweet smell they see no harm, any more than in a silk dress, in well-proportioned
buildings, or magnificent porticoes. Why should it be very wrong or very foolish to catch the
odors which the divine Providence plants in the rose, and in a thousand flowers and gums as
they wander forth upon the air for our delight, and fasten them up in these little bottles?
by which means we can breathe them at all times--in winter as well as in summer, in one country,
or clime, as in another. Thy shop, Civilis, is but a flower-garden in another form, and under
another name.'

'I shall think better of the Christians for this. I hardly believed the report, indeed, for
it were most unnatural and strange to find fault with odors such as these. I shall lament the
more, that they are to be so dealt with by the Emperor. Hast thou heard what is reported this
morning?'

'No; I am but just from home. How does it go?'

'Why, 'tis nothing other nor less than this, that Aurelian, being resolved to change the Christians
all back again into what they were, has begun with his niece the princess Aurelia, and, with
violence, insists that she shall sacrifice--which she steadfastly refuses to do. Some say,
that she has not been seen at the palace for several days, and that she is fast locked up in
the great prison on the Tiber.'

'I do not believe a word of it, Civilis. The Emperor has of late used harsh language of the
Christians, I know. But for one word he has spoken, the city has coined ten. And, moreover,
the words of the priest Fronto are quoted for those of Aurelian. It is well known he is especially
fond of Aurelia; and Mucapor, to whom she is betrothed, is his favorite among all his generals,
not excepting Probus.'

'Well, well, may it be as you say! I, for my part, should be sorry that any mishap befel those
with whom the most noble Piso is connected; especially seeing they do not quarrel, as I was
fain to believe, with my calling. Yet, never before, as I think, have I seen a Christian in
my shop.'

'They may have been here without your knowing it.'

'Yes, that is true.'

'Besides, the Christians being in the greater proportion of the middle or humbler classes,
seek not their goods at places where emperors resort. They go elsewhere.'

Civilis bowed to the floor, as he replied, 'You do me too much honor.'

'The two cases of perfume which I buy,' I then said, 'are to travel into the far East. Please
to secure them accordingly.'

'Are they not then for the princess Julia, as I supposed?'

'They are for a friend in Syria. We wish her to know what is going on here in the capital of
all the world.'

'By the gods! you have devised well. It is the talk all over Rome. Cleopatra's tears have taken
all hearts. Orders from the provinces will soon pour in. They shall follow you well secured,
as you say.'

I enjoy a call upon this whole Roman, and yet half Jew, as much as upon the first citizens
of the capital. The cup of Aurelian, is no fuller than the cup of Civilis. The perfect bliss
that emanates from his countenance, and breathes from his form and gait, is pleasing to behold--upon
whatever founded--seeing it is a state that is reached by so few. No addition could be made
to the felicity of this fortunate man. He conceives his occupation to be more honorable than
the proconsulship of a province, and his name, he pleases himself with believing, is familiar
to more ears than any man's, save the Emperor's, and has been known in Rome for a longer period
than any other person's living, excepting only the head of the Senate, the venerable Tacitus.
This is all legible in the lines about his mouth and eyes.

Leaving the heaven of the happy man, I turned to the Forum of Augustus, to look at a statue
of brass, of Aurelian, just placed among the great men of Rome in front of the Temple of Mars,
the Avenger. This statue is the work of Periander, who, with that universality of power which
marks the Greek, has made his genius as distinguished here for sculpture, as it was in Palmyra
for military defence and architecture. Who, for perfection in this art of arts, is to be compared
with the Greek? or for any work, of either the head or the hands, that implies the possession
of what we mean by genius? The Greeks have not only originated all that we know of great and
beautiful in letters, philosophy and the arts, but, what they have originated, they have also
perfected. Whatever they have touched, they have finished; at least, so far as art, and the
manner of working, is concerned. The depths of all wisdom and philosophy they have not sounded
indeed, though they have gone deeper than any, only because they are in their own essence unfathomable.
Time, as it flows on, bears us to new regions to be explored, whose riches constantly add new
stores to our wisdom, and open new views to science. But in all art they have reached a point
beyond which none have since advanced, and beyond which it hardly seems possible to go. A doric
column, a doric temple, a corinthian capital, a corinthian temple--these perfectly satisfy
and fill the mind; and, for seven hundred years, no change or addition has been made or attempted
that has not been felt to be an injury. And I doubt not that seven thousand years hence, if
time could but spare it so long, pilgrims would still go in search of the beautiful from the
remotest parts of the world, from parts now unknown, to worship before the Parthenon, and,
may I not add, the Temple of the Sun in Palmyra!

Periander has gained new honors by this admirable piece of work. I had hardly commenced my
examination of it, when a grating voice at my elbow, never, once heard, to be mistaken for
any other, croaked out what was meant as a challenge.

'The greatest captain of this or of any age!'

It was Spurius, a man whom no slight can chill nor, even insult, cause to abate the least of
his intrusive familiarity--a familiarity which he covets, too, only for the sake of disputation
and satire. To me, however, he is never other than a source of amusement. He is a variety of
the species I love occasionally to study.

I told him I was observing the workmanship, without thinking of the man represented.

'If you will allow me to say it,' he rejoined, 'a very inferior subject of contemplation. A
statue--as I take it, the thing, that is, for which it is made, is commemoration. If one wants
to see fine work in marble, there is the cornice for him just overhead: or in brass, let him
look at the doors of the new temple, or the last table or couch of Syphax. The proper subject
for man is man.'

'Well, Spurius, on your own ground then. In this brass I do not see brass, nor yet Aurelian--'

'What then, in the name of Hecate?'

'Nothing but intellect--the mind, the soul of the greater artist, Periander. That drapery never
fell so upon Aurelian; nor was Aurelian's form or bearing ever like this. It is all ennobled,
and exalted above pure nature, by the divine power of genius. The true artist, under every
form and every line of nature, sees another form and line of more perfect grace and beauty,
which he chooses instead, and makes it visible and permanent in stone or brass. You see nothing
in me, but merely Piso as he walks the streets. Periander sees another within, bearing no more
resemblance to me--yet as much--than does this, to Aurelian.'

'That, I simply conceive, to be so much sophistry,' rejoined the poet, 'which no man would
be guilty of, except he had been for the very purpose, as one must think, of degrading his
intellect, to the Athenian schools. Still, as I said and think, the statue is made to commemorate
the man represented, not the artist.'

'It is made for that. But, oftentimes, the very name of the man commemorated is lost, while
that of the artist lives forever. In my judgment there is as much of Periander in the statue
as there is of Aurelian.'

'I know not what the fame of this great Periander may be ages hence. It has not till now reached
my ear.'

'It is not easy to reach the ear of some who dwell in the via coeli.' I could not help saying that.

'My rooms, sir, I would inform you,' he rejoined sharply, 'are on the third floor.'

'Then I do wonder you should not have heard of Periander.'

'Greater than Aurelian! and I must wonder too. A poet may be greater than a general or an emperor,
I grant: he is one of the family of the gods; but how a worker in brass or marble can be, passes
my poor understanding. It is vain to attempt to raise the mere artist, to the level of the
historian or poet.'

'I think that too. I only said he was greater than Aurelian--'

'Than Aurelian,' replied Spurius, 'who has extended the bounds of the empire!'

'But narrowed those of human happiness,' I answered. 'Which is of more consequence, empire
or man? But now, man was the great object! I grant you he is, and for that reason a man who,
like an artist of genius, adds to the innocent sources of human enjoyment, is greater than
the soldier and conqueror, whose business is the annoyance and destruction of life. Aurelian
has slain hundreds of thousands. Periander never injured a worm. He dwells in a calm and peaceful
world of his own, and his works are designed to infuse the same spirit that fills himself into
all who behold them. You must confess the superior power of art, and of the artist, in this
very figure. Who thinks of conquest, blood, and death, as he looks upon these flowing outlines,
this calm, majestic form--upon that still face? The artist here is the conqueror of the conqueror,
and makes him subserve his own purposes; purposes, of a higher nature than the mere soldier
ever dreamed of. No one can stand and contemplate this form, without being made a lover of
beauty rather than of blood and death; and beauty is peace.'

'It must be impossible,' replied the bitter spirit, 'for one who loves Palmyra better than
his native Rome, to see much merit in Aurelian. It is a common saying, Piso is a Palmyrene.
The report is current too that Piso is about to turn author, and celebrate that great nation
in history.'

'I wish I were worthy to do so,' I answered, 'I might then refute certain statements in another
quarter. Yet events have already refuted them.'

'If my book,' replied Spurius, 'be copied a thousand times, the statements shall stand as they
are. They are founded upon indisputable evidence and philosophical inferences.'

'But, Spurius, they are every one contradicted by the late events.'

'No matter for that, if they were ever true they must always be true. Reasoning is as strong
as fact. I found Palmyra a vulgar, upstart, provincial city; the most distasteful of all spots
on earth to a refined mind; such I left it, and such I have shown it to the world.'

'Yet,' I urged, 'if the Palmyrenes in the defence of their country showed themselves a brave,
daring, and dangerous foe, as they certainly were magnanimous; if so many facts and events
prove this, and all Rome admits it, it will seem like little else than malice for such pages
to circulate in your book. Besides, as to a thousand other things I can prove you to have seen
amiss.'

'Because I have but one eye, am I incapable of vision? Am I to be reproached with my misfortunes?
One eye is the same as two; who sees two images except he squint? I can describe that wain,
loaded down with wine casks, drawn by four horses with scarlet trappings, the driver with a
sweeping Juno's favor in his cap, as justly as you can. Who can see more?'

'I thought not, Spurius, of your misfortune, though I must think two eyes better for seeing
than one, but only of favorable opportunities for observation. You were in Palmyra from the
ides of January to the nones of February, and lived in a tavern. I have been there more than
half a year, and dwelt among the citizens themselves. I knew them in public and in private,
and saw them under all circumstances most favorable to a just opinion, and I can affirm that
a more discolored picture of a people was never drawn than yours.'

'All the world,' said the creature, 'knows that Spurius is no flatterer. I have not only published
travels among the Palmyrenes, but I intend to publish a poem also--yes, a satire--and if it
should be entitled "Woman's pride humbled," or "The downfall of false greatness" or "The gourd
withered in a day," or "Mushrooms not oaks," or "Ants not elephants," what would there be wonderful
in it?--or, if certain Romans should figure largely in it, eh?'

'Nothing is less wonderful, Spurius, than the obstinacy and tenaciousness of error?'

'Periander greater than Aurelian!' rejoined he, moving off; 'that is a good thing for the town.'

As I turned, intending to visit the shop of Demetrius, to see what progress he was making in
his silver Apollo, I was accosted by the consul, Marcellinus.

'A fair morning to you, Piso,' said he; 'and I see you need the salutation and the wish, for
a black cloud has just drifted from you, and you must still feel as if under the shadow. Half
the length of the street, as I slowly approached, have I witnessed your earnest discourse with
one whom, I now see, to have been Spurius. But I trust your Christian principles are not about
to make an agrarian of you? Whence this sudden intimacy with one like Spurius?'

'One need not, I suppose, be set down as a lover of an east wind because they both sometimes
take the same road, and can scarcely separate if they would? But, to speak the truth, a man
is to me a man, and I never yet have met one of the race from whom I could not gain either
amusement, instruction, or warning. Spurius is better than a lecture from a philosopher, upon
the odiousness of prejudice. To any one inclined to harbor prejudices would I recommend an
hour's interview with Spurius, sooner far than I would send him to Cleanthes the Stoic, or
Silius the Platonist, or, I had almost said Probus the Christian.'

'May I ask, Piso, if you have in sober earnest joined yourself to the community of the Christians,
or, are you only dallying for awhile with their doctrines, just as our young men are this year
infected by the opinions of Cleanthes, the next followers of Silius, the third of the nuisance
Crito, and the fourth, adrift from all, and the fifth, good defenders, if not believers, of
the popular superstitions? I presume I may believe that such is the case with you. I trust
so, for the times are not favorable for the Christians, and I would like to know that you were
not of them.'

'I am however of them, with earnestness. I have been a Christian ever since I first thoroughly
comprehended what it meant.'

'But how can it be possible that, standing as you do at the head as it were of the nobility
and wealth of Rome, you can confound yourself with this obscure and vulgar tribe? I know that
some few of reputation are with them beside yourself; but how few! Come, come, disabuse yourself
of this error and return to the old, safe, and reputable side.'

'If mere fancy, Marcellinus, had carried me over to the Christians, fancy or whim might bring
me away from them. But if it be, on the other hand, a question of truth, then it is clear,
fashion and respectability, and even what is safest, or most expedient, are arguments not to
be so much as lisped.'

'No more, no more! I see how it is. You are fairly gone from us. Nevertheless, though it may
be thought needful to check the growth of this sect, I shall hope that your bark may sail safely
along. But this reported disappearance of Aurelia shows that danger is not far off.'

'Do you then credit the rumor?'

'I can do no otherwise. It is in every part of the town. I shall learn the truth at the capitol.
I go to meet the senate.'

'One moment: Is my judgment of the senate a right one in this, that it would not second Aurelian
in an attack upon the privileges, property, or lives of the Christians?'

'I think it is. Although, as I know, there are but few Christians in the body--how many you
know surely better than I--yet I am persuaded it would be averse to acts of intolerance and
persecution. Will you not accompany me to the sitting?'

'Not so early. I am first bound elsewhere.'

'You know, Fausta, that I avoid the senate. Being no longer a senate, a Roman senate, but a
mere gathering of the flatterers of the reigning Emperor, whoever he may be, neither pleasure
nor honor can come of their company. There is one aspect however, at the present moment, in
which this body is to be contemplated with interest. It is not, in matters of religion, a superstitious
body. Here it stands, between Aurelian with the populace on his side, and the Christians, or
whatever religious body or sect there should be any design to oppress or exterminate. It consists
of the best and noblest, and richest, of Rome; of those who have either imbibed their opinions
in philosophy and religion from the ancient philosophers or their living representatives, or
are indifferent and neglectful of the whole subject; which is the more common case. In either
respect they are as a body tolerant of the various forms which religion or superstition may
assume. The only points of interest or inquiry with them would be, whether any specified faith
or ceremonies tended to the injury of the state? whether they affected to its damage the existing
order of civil affairs? These questions being answered favorably on the part of the greater
number, there would be no disposition to interfere. Of Christianity, the common judgment in
that body, and among those in the capital who are of the same general rank, is for the most
part favorable. It is commended for its modesty, for the quiet and unostentatious manner in
which its religious affairs are managed, and for the humble diligence with which it concerns
itself with the common people and the poor, carefully instructing them in the doctrines of
their religion, and relieving liberally their necessities. I am persuaded, that any decision
of the senate concerning the Christians, would be indulgent and paternal, and that it would,
in opinion and feeling, be opposed to any violence whatever on the part of Aurelian. But then,
alas! it is little that they can do with even the best purposes. The Emperor is absolute--the
only power, in truth, in the state. The senate exists but in name and form. It has even less
independent power than that of Palmyra had under Zenobia. Yours, indeed, was dependent through
affection and trust, reposing in a higher wisdom than its own. This, through fear and the spirit
of flattery. So many members too were added, after the murderous thinning of its seats in the
affair of the mint, that, now, scarce a voice would be raised in open opposition to any course
the Emperor might adopt. The new members being moreover of newer families, nearer the people,
are less inclined than the others to resist any of his measures. Still, it is most evident
that there is an under current of ill-will, opposition, jealousy, distrust, running through
the body, which, if the opportunity should present itself, and there were courage enough for
the work, may show itself and make itself felt and respected. The senate, in a word, though
slavish and subservient, is not friendly.

But I am detaining you from the company of Demetrius, of which you were always fond. I soon
reached his rich establishment, and being assured that he of Palmyra was within, I entered.
First passing through many apartments, filled with those who were engaged in some one of the
branches of this beautiful art, I came to that which was sacred to the labors of the two brothers,
who are employed in the invention of the designs of their several works, in drawing the plans,
in preparing the models, and then in overseeing the younger artists at their tasks, themselves
performing all the higher and more difficult parts of the labor. Demetrius was working alone
at his statue; the room in which he was, being filled either with antiquities in brass, ivory,
silver, or gold, or with finished specimens of his own and his brother's skill, all disposed
with the utmost taste, and with all the advantages to be derived from the architecture of the
room, from a soft and mellowed light resembling moonlight which came through alabaster windows,
from the rich cloths, silks, and other stuffs, variously disposed around, and from the highly
ornamented cabinets in which articles of greatest perfection and value were kept and exhibited.
Here stood the enthusiast, applying himself so intently to his task, that he neither heard
the door of the apartment as it opened, nor the voice of the slave who announced my name. But,
in a moment, as he suddenly retreated to a dark recess to observe from that point the effect
of his touches as he proceeded, he saw me, and cried out,

'Most glad to greet you here, Piso; your judgment is, at this very point, what I shall be thankful
for. Here, if it please you, move to the very spot in which I now am in, and tell me especially
this, whether the finger of the right hand should not be turned a line farther toward the left
of the figure. The metal is obstinate, but still it can be bent if necessary. Now judge, and
speak your judgment frankly, for my sake.'

I sank back into the recess as desired, and considered attentively the whole form, rough now
and from the moulds, and receiving the first finishing touches from the rasp and the chisel.
I studied it long and at my leisure, Demetrius employing himself busily about some other matter.
It is a beautiful and noble figure, worthy any artist's reputation of any age, and of a place
in the magnificent temple for which it is designed. So I assured Demetrius, giving him at length
my opinion upon every part. I ended with telling him I did not believe that any effect would
be gained by altering the present direction of the finger. It had come perfect from the moulds.

'Is that your honest judgment, Piso? Christians, they say, ever speak the exact truth. Fifty
times have I gone where you now are to determine the point. My brother says it is right. But
I cannot tell. I have attempted the work in too much haste; but Aurelian thinks, I believe,
that a silver man may be made as easily as a flesh one may be unmade. Rome is not Palmyra,
Piso. What a life there for an artist! Calm as a summer sea. Here! by all the gods and goddesses!
if one hears of anything but of blood and death! Heads all on where they should be to-day,
to-morrow are off. To-day, captives cut up on the altars of some accursed god, and to-morrow
thrown to some savage beast, no better and no worse, for the entertainment of savages worse
than either or all. The very boys in the streets talk of little else than of murderous sports
of gladiators or wild animals. I swear to you, a man can scarce collect or keep his thoughts
here. What's this about the Christians too? I marvel, Piso, to see you here alive! They say
you are to be all cut up root and branch. Take my advice, and fly with me back to Palmyra!
Not another half year would I pass among these barbarians for all the patronage of the Emperor,
his minions, and the senate at their heels. What say you?'

'No, Demetrius, I cannot go; but I should not blame you for going. Rome is no place, I agree
with you, for the life contemplative, or for the pure and innocent labors of art. It is the
spot for intense action; but--'

'Suffering you mean--'

'That too, most assuredly, but of action too. It is the great heart of the world.'

'Black as Erebus and night.'

'Yes, but still a great one, which, if it can be once made to beat true, will send its blood,
then a pure and life-giving current, to the remotest extremities of the world, which is its
body. I hope for the time to come when this will be true. There is more goodness in Rome, Demetrius,
than you have heard, or known of. There is a people here worth saving: I, with the other Christians,
am set to this work. We must not abandon it.'

''Twill be small comfort though, should you all perish doing it.'

'Our perishing might be but the means of new and greater multitudes springing up to finish
what we had begun, but left incomplete. There is great life in death. Blood, spilled upon the
ground, is a kind of seed that comes up men. Truth is not extinguished by putting out life.
It then seems to shine the more brightly, as if the more to cheer and comfort those who are
suffering and dying for it.'

'That may, or may not be,' said the artist, 'here and there; but, in my judgment, if this man-slayer,
this world-butcher once fastens his clutches upon your tribe, he will leave none to write your
story. How many were left in Palmyra?--Just, Piso, resume your point of observation, and judge
whether this fold of the drapery were better as it is, or joined to the one under it, an alteration
easily made.'

I gave him my opinion, and he went on filing and talking.

'And now, Piso, if I must tell you, I have conceived a liking for you Christians, and it is
for this reason partly I would have you set about to escape the evil that is at least threatened.
Here is my brother, whose equal the world does not hold, is become a Christian. Then, do you
know, here is a family, just in the rear of our shop, of one Macer, a Christian and a preacher,
that has won upon us strangely. I see much of them. Some of his boys are in a room below, helping
on by their labor the support of their mother and those who are younger, for I trow, Macer
himself does little for them, whatever he may be doing for the world at large, or its great
heart as you call it. But, what is more still,' cried he with emphasis, and a jump at the same
moment, throwing down his tools, 'do you know the Christians have some sense of what is good
in our way? they aspire to the elegant, as well as others who are in better esteem.'

And as he finished, he threw open the doors of a small cabinet, and displayed a row of dishes,
cups, and pitchers, of elegant form and workmanship.

'These,' he went on, 'are for the church of Felix, the bishop of the Christians. What they
do with them I know not; but, as I was told by the bishop, they have a table or altar of marble,
on which, at certain times, they are arranged for some religious rite or other. They are not
of gold, as they seem, but of silver gilded. My brother furnished the designs, and put them
into the hands of Flaccus, who wrought them. Neither I nor my brother could labor at them,
as you may believe, but it shows a good ambition in the Christians to try for the first skill
in Rome or the world,--does it not? They are a promising people.'

Saying which, he closed the doors and flew to his work again.

At the same moment the door of the apartment opened, and the brother Demetrius entered accompanied
by Probus. When our greetings were over, Probus said, continuing as it seemed a conversation
just broken off,

'I did all I could to prevent it, but the voice of numbers was against me, and of authority
too, and, both together, they prevailed. You, I believe, stood neuter, or indeed, I may suppose,
knew nothing about the difference?'

'As you suppose,' replied the elder Demetrius, 'I knew nothing of it, but designed the work
and have completed it. Here it is.' And going to the same cabinet, again opened the doors and
displayed the contents. Probus surveyed them with a melancholy air, saying, as he did so,

'I could bear that the vessels, used for the purpose to which these are destined, should be
made of gold, or even of diamond itself, could mines be found to furnish it, and skill to hollow
it out. For, we know, the wine which these shall hold is that which, in the way of symbol,
shadows forth the blood of Christ which, by being shed on the cross, purchased for us this
Christian truth and hope; and what should be set out with every form of human honor, if not this?'

'I think so,' replied Demetrius; 'to that which we honor and reverence in our hearts we must
add the outward sign and testimony; especially moreover if we would affect, in the same way
that ours are, the minds of others. Paganism understands this; and it is the pomp and magnificence
of her ceremony, the richness of the temple service, the grandeur of her architecture, and
the imposing array of her priests in their robes, ministering at the altars or passing through
the streets in gorgeous procession, with banners, victims, garlands, and music, by which the
populace are gained and kept. That must be founded on just principles, men say, on which the
great, the learned, and the rich, above all the State itself, are so prompt to lavish so much
splendor and wealth.'

'But here is a great danger,' Probus replied. 'This, carried too far, may convert religion
into show and ostentation. Form and ceremony, and all that is merely outward and material,
may take the place of the moral. Religion may come to be a thing apart by itself, a great act,
a tremendous and awful rite, a magnificent and imposing ceremony, instead of what it is in
itself, simply a principle of right action toward man and toward God. This is at present just
the character and position of the Roman religion. It is a thing that is to be seen at the temples,
but nowhere else; it is a worship through sacrifices and prayers, and that is all. The worshipper
at the temple may be a tyrant at home, a profligate in the city, a bad man everywhere, and
yet none the less a true worshipper. May God save the religion of Christ from such corruption!
Yet is the beginning to be discerned. A decline has already begun. Rank and power are already
sought with an insane ambition, even by ministers of Christ. They are seeking to transfer to
Christianity the same outward splendor, and the same gilded trappings, which, in the rites
and ceremonies of the popular faith, they see so to subdue the imagination, and lead men captive.
Hence, Piso and Demetrius, the golden chair of Felix, and his robes of audience, on which there
is more gold, as I believe, than would gild all these cups and pitchers; hence, too, the finery
of the table, the picture behind it, and, in some churches, the statues of Christ, of Paul,
and Peter. These golden vessels for the supper of Christ's love, I can forgive--I can welcome
them--but in the rest that has come, and is coming, I see signs of danger.'

'But, most excellent Probus,' said the younger Demetrius, 'I like not to hear the arts assailed
and represented dangerous. I have just been telling Piso, that you are a people to be respected,
for you were beginning to honor the arts. Yet here now you are denouncing them. But, let me
ask, what harm could it do any good man among you, to come and look at this figure of Apollo,
or a statue of your Paul or Peter, as you name them--supposing they were just men and benefactors
of their race?'

