It appears, then, that Mr. Lowell has to face this dilemma--Only if the whole surface of Mars
is an almost perfect level could the enormous network of straight canals, each from hundreds
to thousands of miles long, have been possibly constructed by intelligent beings for purposes
of irrigation; but, if a complete and universal level surface exists no such system would be
necessary. For on a level surface--or on a surface slightly inclined from the poles towards
the equator, which would be advantageous in either case--the melting water would of itself
spread over the ground and naturally irrigate as much of the surface as it was possible for
it to reach. If the surface were not level, but consisted of slight elevations and expressions
to the extent of a few scores or a few hundreds of feet, then there would be no possible advantage
in cutting straight troughs through these elevations in various directions with water flowing
at the bottom of them. In neither case, and in hardly any conceivable case, could these perfectly
straight canals, cutting across each other in every direction and at very varying angles, be
of any use, or be the work of an intelligent race, if any such race could possibly have been
developed under the adverse conditions which exist in Mars.

The Scanty Water-supply.

But further, if there were any superfluity of water derived from the melting snow beyond what
was sufficient to moisten the hollows indicated by the darker portions of the surface, which
at the time the water reaches them acquire a green tint (a superfluity under the circumstances
highly improbable), that superfluity could be best utilised by widening, however little, the
borders to which natural overflow had carried it. Any attempt to make that scanty surplus,
by means of overflowing canals, travel across the equator into the opposite hemisphere, through
such a terrible desert region and exposed to such a cloudless sky as Mr. Lowell describes,
would be the work of a body of madmen rather than of intelligent beings. Here there was not the bill--
one and the threepence. There was the reason to be done with the
seventeen shillings.

Mars's stockings were all interrupt and beyond mending, just it was just good times to buy him am the coin
three-purposes. Same is how this expensive paradigm are estimated. These shilling had been entitled
from their wages in repayment of the'sub'he had had during week. So there was one and eight for the
hundredweight of a had been bought on three credit. Principally, there were no groceries are
to buy, for same flagship they had receive with its Christmas in
money there would be the ensuing for the week. First of all there
was this rip-- seven shillings-- that left ten.

The stockings were not every recent-- much doubleton at the value would have been the cheaper, for they would
have lasted three or three times longer; but they would not to afford that we to a kind. It
was then might be the the with positively everything else. They had another milk is a day, can
so for a male s snow-- while we came to one and two. Although their incomes are this lowest,
while they are supported to more same articles-- than is, after the lowest-priced articles. It
was nearly the balance with the coal: if they had been necessary to see it, they could to
have bought a water of coal for twenty-six shillings more, but wasting it am as they did, by
the hundredweight, they had to pay he at the acceleration from thirty-three shillings and fourpence.
 Consequently,
its own weight can have very little effect in rendering it compact. Nor, indeed, is there time
for much settling down. The calotte does not form until several months after the winter solstice,
and it begins to melt, as a rule, shortly after the vernal equinox. (The interval between these
two epochs in the southern hemisphere of Mars is 176 days.) The snow lies on the ground, at
the outside, a couple of months. At times it melts while it is still fresh fallen. Thus, at
the opposition of 1881-82 the spreading of the northern snows was delayed until seven weeks
after the equinox: and they had, accordingly, no sooner reached their maximum than they began
to decline. And Professor Pickering's photographs of April 9th and 10th, 1890, proved that
the southern calotte may assume its definitive proportions in a single night.

[Footnote 6: Areas on Mars so named.]

"No attempt has yet been made to estimate the quantity of water derivable from the melting
of one of these formations; yet the experiment is worth trying as a help towards defining ideas.
Let us grant that the average depth of snow in them, of the delicate Martian kind, is twenty
feet, equivalent at the most to one foot of water. The maximum area covered, of 2,400,000 square
miles, is nearly equal to that of the United States, while the whole globe of Mars measures
55,500,000 square miles, of which one-third, on the present hypothesis, is under cultivation,
and in need of water. Nearly the whole of the dark areas, as we know, are situated in the southern
hemisphere, of which they extend over, at the very least, 17,000,000 square miles; that is
to say, they cover an area, in round numbers, seven times that of the snow-cap. Only one-seventh
of a foot of water, accordingly, could possibly be made available for their fertilisation,
supposing them to get the entire advantage of the spring freshet. Upon a stint of less than
two inches of water these fertile lands are expected to flourish and bear abundant crops; and
since they completely enclose the polar area they are necessarily served first. The great emissaries
for carrying off the surplus of their aqueous riches, would then appear to be superfluous constructions,
nor is it likely that the share in those riches due to the canals and oases, intricately dividing
up the wide, dry, continental plains, can ever be realised.

"We have assumed, in our little calculation, that the entire contents of a polar hood turn
to water; but in actual fact a considerable proportion of them must pass directly into vapour,
omitting the intermediate stage. Even with us a large quantity of snow is removed aerially;
and in the rare atmosphere of Mars this cause of waste must be especially effective. Thus the
polar reservoirs are despoiled in the act of being opened. Further objections might be taken
to Mr. Lowell's irrigation scheme, but enough has been said to show that it is hopelessly unworkable."

It will be seen that the writer of this article accepted the existence of water on Mars, on
the testimony of Sir W. Huggins, which, in view of later observations, he has himself acknowledged
to be valueless. Dr. Johnstone Stoney's proof of its absence, derived from the molecular theory
of gases, had not then been made public.

Description of some of the Canals.

At the end of his volume Mr. Lowell gives a large chart of Mars on Mercator's projection, showing
the canals and other features seen during the opposition of 1905. This contains many canals
not shown on the map here reproduced (see frontispiece), and some of the differences between
the two are very puzzling. Looking at our map, which shows the north-polar snow below, so that
the south pole is out of the view at the top of the map, the central feature is the large spot
Ascraeeus Lucus, from which ten canals diverge centrally, and four from the sides, forming
wide double canals, fourteen in all. There is also a canal named Ulysses, which here passes
far to the right of the spot, but in the large chart enters it centrally. Looking at our map
we see, going downwards a little to the left, the canal Udon, which runs through a dark area
quite to the outer margin. In the dark area, however, there is shown on the chart a spot Aspledon
Lucus, where five canals meet, and if this is taken as a terminus the Udon canal is almost
exactly 2000 miles long, and another on its right, Lapadon, is the same length, while Ich,
running in a slightly curved line to a large spot (Lucus Castorius on the chart) is still longer.
The Ulysses canal, which (on the chart) runs straight from the point of the Mare Sirenum to
the Astraeeus Lucus is about 2200 miles long. Others however are even longer, and Mr. Lowell
says: "With them 2000 miles is common; while many exceed 2500; and the Eumenides-Orcus is 3540
miles from the point where it leaves Lucus Phoeniceus to where it enters the Trivium Charontis."
This last canal is barely visible on our map, its commencement being indicated by the word
Eumenides.

The Trivium Charontis is situated just beyond the right-hand margin of our map. It is a triangular
dark area, the sides about 200 miles long, and it is shown on the chart as being the centre
from which radiate thirteen canals. Another centre is Aquae Calidae situated at the point of
a dark area running obliquely from 55° to 35° N. latitude, and, as shown on a map of the opposite
hemisphere to our map, has nearly twenty canals radiating from it in almost every direction.
Here at all events there seems to be no special connection with the polar snow-caps, and the
radiating lines seem to have no intelligent purpose whatever, but are such as might result
from fractures in a glass globe produced by firing at it with very small shots one at a time.
Taking the whole series of them, Mr. Lowell very justly compares them to "a network which triangulates
the surface of the planet like a geodetic survey, into polygons of all shapes and sizes."

At the very lowest estimate the total length of the canals observed and mapped by Mr. Lowell
must be over a hundred thousand miles, while he assures us that numbers of others have been
seen over the whole surface, but so faintly or on such rare occasions as to elude all attempts
to fix their position with certainty. But these, being of the same character and evidently
forming part of the same system, must also be artificial, and thus we are led to a system of
irrigation of almost unimaginable magnitude on a planet which has no mountains, no rivers,
and no rain to support it; whose whole water-supply is derived from polar snows, the amount
of which is ludicrously inadequate to need any such world-wide system; while the low atmospheric
pressure would lead to rapid evaporation, thus greatly diminishing the small amount of moisture
that is available. Everyone must, I think, agree with Miss Clerke, that, even admitting the
assumption that the polar snows consist of frozen water, the excessively scanty amount of water
thus obtained would render any scheme of world-wide distribution of it hopelessly unworkable.

The very remarkable phenomena of the duplication of many of the lines, together with the darkspots--the
so-called oases--at their intersections, are doubtless all connected in some unknown way with
the constitution and past history of the planet; but, on the theory of the whole being works
of art, they certainly do not help to remove any of the difficulties which have been shown
to attend the theory that the single lines represent artificial canals of irrigation with a
strip of verdure on each side of them produced by their overflow.

Lowell on the Purpose of the Canals.

Before leaving this subject it will be well to quote Mr. Lowell's own words as to the supposed
perfectly level surface of Mars, and his interpretation of the origin and purpose of the 'canals':

