'By Heavens!' exclaims he, in an undertone to himself, 'I believe he's killed!' And thereupon
he swung down the stand-stairs, rushed to his horse, and, clapping spurs to his sides, struck
across the country to the spot.

Long before he got there the increased uproar of the spectators announced the final struggle;
and looking over his shoulder, he saw white jacket hugging his horse home, closely followed
by red, and shooting past the winning-post.

'Dash that Mr. Sponge!' growled his lordship, as the cheers of the winners closed the scene.

'The brute's won, in spite of him!' gasped Buckram, turning deadly pale at the sight.

CHAPTER LXIX

HOW OTHER THINGS CAME OFF

'Twere hard to say whether Lucy's joy at Sponge's safety, or Lord Scamperdale's grief at poor
Spraggon's death, was most overpowering. Each found relief in a copious flood of tears. Lucy
sobbed and laughed, and sobbed and laughed again; and seemed as if her little heart would burst
its bounds. The mob, ever open to sentiment--especially the sentiment of beauty--cheered and
shouted as she rode with her lover from the winning to the weighing-post.

'A', she's a bonny un!' exclaimed a countryman, looking intently up in her face.

'She is that!' cried another, doing the same.

'Three cheers for the lady!' shouted a tall Shaggyford rough, taking off his woolly cap, and
waving it.

'Hoo-ray! hoo-ray! hoo-ray!' shouted a group of flannel-clad navvies.

'Three for white jacket!' then roared a blue-coated butcher, who had won as many half-crowns
on the race.--Three cheers were given for the unwilling winner.

'Oh, my poor dear Jack!' exclaimed his lordship, throwing himself off his horse, and wringing
his hands in despair, as a select party of thimble-riggers, who had gone to Jack's assistance,
raised him up, and turned his ghastly face, with his eyes squinting inside out, and the foam
still on his mouth, full upon him. 'Oh, my poor dear Jack!' repeated his lordship, sinking
on his knees beside him, and grasping his stiffening hand as he spoke. His lordship sank overpowered
upon the body.

The thimble-riggers then availed themselves of the opportunity to ease his lordship and Jack
of their watches and the few shillings they had about them, and departed.

When a lord is in distress, consolation is never long in coming; and Lord Scamperdale had hardly
got over the first paroxysms of grief, and gathered up Jack's cap, and the fragments of his
spectacles, ere Jawleyford, who had noticed his abrupt departure from the stand and scurry
across the country, arrived at the spot. His lordship was still in the full agony of woe; still
grasping and bedewing Jack's cold hand with his tears.

'Oh, my dear Jack! Oh, my dear Jawleyford! Oh, my dear Jack! 'sobbed he, as he mopped the fast-chasing
tears from his grizzly cheeks with a red cotton kerchief. 'Oh, my dear Jack! Oh, my dear Jawleyford!
Oh, my dear Jack! 'repeated he, as a fresh flood spread o'er the rugged surface. 'Oh, what
a tr-reasure, what a tr--tr--trump he was. Shall never get such another. Nobody could s--s--lang
a fi--fi--field as he could; no hu--hu--humbug 'bout him--never was su--su--such a fine natural
bl--bl--blackguard'; and then his feelings wholly choked his utterance as he recollected how
easily Jack was satisfied; how he could dine off tripe and cow-heel, mop up fat porridge for
breakfast, and never grumbled at being put on a bad horse.

The news of a man being killed soon reached the hill, and drew the attention of the mob from
our hero and heroine, causing such a spread of population over the farm as must have been highly
gratifying to Scourgefield, who stood watching the crashing of the fences and the demolition
of the gates, thinking how he was paying his landlord off.

Seeing the rude, unmannerly character of the mob, Jawleyford got his lordship by the arm, and
led him away towards the hill, his lordship reeling, rather than walking, and indulging in
all sorts of wild, incoherent cries and lamentations.

'Sing out. Jack! sing out!' he would exclaim, as if in the agony of having his hounds ridden
over; then, checking himself, he would shake his head and say, 'Ah, poor Jack, poor Jack! shall
never look upon his like again--shall never get such a man to read the riot act, and keep all
square.' And then a fresh gush of tears suffused his grizzly face.

The minor casualties of those few butchering spasmodic moments may be briefly dismissed, though
they were more numerous than most sportsmen see out hunting in a lifetime.

One horse broke his back, another was drowned, Multum-in-Parvo was cut all to pieces, his rider
had two ribs and a thumb broken, while Farmer Slyfield's stackyard was fired by some of the
itinerant tribe, and all its uninsured contents destroyed--so that his landlord was not the
only person who suffered by the grand occasion.

Nor was this all, for Mr. Numboy, the coroner, hearing of Jack's death, held an inquest on
the body; and, having empanelled a matter-of-fact jury--men who did not see the advantage of
steeple-chasing, either in a political, commercial, agricultural, or national point of view,
and who, having surveyed the line, and found nearly every fence dangerous, and the wall and
brook doubly so, returned a verdict of manslaughter against Mr. Viney for setting it out, who
was forthwith committed to the county gaol of Limbo Castle for trial at the ensuing assizes,
from whence let us join the benevolent clerk of arraigns in wishing him a good deliverance.

Many of the hardy 'tips' sounded the loud trump of victory, proclaiming that their innumerable
friends had feathered their nests through their agency; but Peeping Tom and Infallible Joe,
and Enoch Wriggle, 'the offending soul,' &c, found it convenient to bolt from their respective
establishments, carrying with them their large fire-screens, camp-stools, and boards for posting
up their lists, and setting up in new names in other quarters; while the Hen Angel was shortly
afterwards closed, and the presentation-tureen made into 'white soup.'

So much for the 'small deer.' We will now devote a concluding chapter to the 'great guns' of
our story.

CHAPTER LXX

HOW LORD SCAMPERDALE AND CO. CAME OFF

Our noble master's nerves were so dreadfully shattered by the lamentable catastrophe to poor
Jack, that he stepped, or rather was pushed, into Jawleyford's carriage almost insensibly,
and driven from the course to Jawleyford Court.

There he remained sufficiently long for Mrs. Jawleyford to persuade him that he would be far
better married, and that either of her amiable daughters would make him a most excellent wife.
His lordship, after very mature consideration, and many most scrutinizing stares at both of
them through his formidable spectacles, wondering which would be the least likely to ruin him--at
length decided upon taking Miss Emily, the youngest, though for a long time the victory was
doubtful, and Amelia practised her 'Scamperdale' singing with unabated ardour and confidence
up to the last. We believe, if the truth were known, it was a slight touch of rouge, that Amelia
thought would clench the matter, that decided his lordship against her. Emily, we are happy
to say, makes him an excellent wife, and has not got her head turned by becoming a countess.
She has improved his lordship amazingly, got him smart new clothes, and persuaded him to grow
bushy whiskers right down under his chin, and is now feeling her way to a pair of moustaches.

Woodmansterne is quite another place. She has marshalled a proper establishment, and got him
coaxed into the long put-a-way company rooms. Though he still indulges in his former cow-heel
and other delicacies, they do not appear upon table; while he sports his silver-mounted specs
on all occasions. The fruit and venison are freely distributed, and we have come in for a haunch
in return for our attentions.

Best of all, Lady Scamperdale has got his lordship to erect a handsome marble monument to poor
Jack, instead of the cheap country stone he intended. The inscription states that it was erected
by Samuel, Eighth Earl of Scamperdale, and Viscount Hardup, in the Peerage of Ireland, to the
Memory of John Spraggon, Esquire, the best of Sportsmen, and the firmest of Friends. Who or
what Jack was, nobody ever knew, and as he only left a hat and eighteen pence behind him, no
next of kin has as yet cast up.

Jawleyford has not stood the honour of the Scamperdale alliance quite so well as his daughter;
and when our 'amaazin' instance of a pop'lar man,' instigated perhaps by the desire to have
old Scamp for a brother-in-law, offered to Amelia, Jaw got throaty and consequential, hemmed
and hawed, and pretended to be stiff about it. Puff, however, produced such weighty testimonials,
as soon exercised their wonted influence. In due time Puff very magnanimously proposed uniting
his pack with Lord Scamperdale's, dividing the expense of one establishment between them, to
which his lordship readily assented, advising Puff to get rid of Bragg by giving him the hounds,
which he did; and that great sporting luminary may be seen 's-c-e-u-s-e'-ing himself, and offering
his service to masters of hounds any Monday at Tattersall's--though he still prefers a 'quality
place.'

Benjamin Buckram, the gentleman with the small independence of his own, we are sorry to say
has gone to the 'bad.' Aggravated by the loss he sustained by his horse winning the steeple-chase,
he made an ill-advised onslaught on the cash-box of the London and Westminster Bank; and at
three score years and ten this distinguished 'turfite,' who had participated with impunity
in nearly all the great robberies of the last forty years, was doomed to transportation. And
yet we have seen this cracksman captain--for he, too, was a captain at times--jostling and
bellowing for odds among some of the highest and noblest of the land!

Leather has descended to the cab-stand, of which he promises to be a distinguished ornament.
He haunts the Piccadilly stands, and has what he calls ''stablish'd a raw' on Mr. Sponge to
the extent of three-and-six-pence a week, under threats of exposing the robbery Sponge committed
on our friend Mr. Waffles. That volatile genius, we are happy to add, is quite well, and open
to the attentions of any young lady who thinks she can tame a wild young man. His financial
affairs are not irretrievable.

And now for the hero and heroine of our tale. The Sponges--for our friend married Lucy shortly
after the steeple-chase--stayed at Nonsuch House until the bailiffs walked in. Sir Harry then
bolted to Boulogne, where he shortly afterwards died, and Bugles very properly married my lady.
They are now living at Wandsworth; Mr. Bugles and Lady Scattercash, very 'much thought of'--as
Bugles says.

Although Mr. Sponge did not gain as much by winning the steeple-chase as he would have done
had Hercules allowed him to lose it, he still did pretty well; and being at length starved
out of Nonsuch House, he arrived at his old quarters, the Bantam, in Bond Street, where he
turned his attention very seriously to providing for Lucy and the little Sponge, who had now
issued its prospectus. He thought over all the ways and means of making money without capital,
rejecting Australia and California as unfit for sportsmen and men fond of their Moggs. Professional
steeple-chasing Lucy decried, declaring she would rather return to her flag-exercises at Astley's,
as soon as she was able, than have her dear Sponge risking his neck that way. Our friend at
length began to fear fortune-making was not so easy as he thought--indeed, he was soon sure of it.

One day as he was staring vacantly out of the Bantam coffee-room window, between the gilt labels,
'Hot Soups' and 'Dinners,' he was suddenly seized with a fit of virtuous indignation at the
disreputable frauds practised by unprincipled adventurers on the unwary public, in the way
of betting offices, and resolved that he would be the St. George to slay this great dragon
of abuse. Accordingly, after due consultation with Lucy, he invested his all in fitting up
and decorating the splendid establishment in Jermyn Street, St. James's, now known as the SPONGE
AND CIGAR BETTING ROOMS, whose richness neither pen nor pencil can do justice to.

We must, therefore, entreat our readers to visit this emporium of honesty, where, in addition
to finding lists posted on all the great events of the day, they can have the use of a Mogg
while they indulge in one of Lucy's unrivalled cigars; and noblemen, gentlemen, and officers
in the household troops may be accommodated with loans on their personal security to any amount.
We see by Mr. Sponge's last advertisements that he has £116,300 to lend at three and a half
per cent.!

'What a farce,' we fancy we hear some enterprising youngster exclaim--'what a farce, to suppose
that such a needy scamp as Mr. Sponge, who has been cheating everybody, has any money to lend,
or to pay bets with if he loses!' Right, young gentleman, right; but not a bit greater farce
than to suppose that any of the plausible money-lenders, or infallible 'tips' with whom you,
perhaps, have had connection have any either, in case it's called for. Nay, bad as he is, we'll
back old Soapey to be better than any of them,--with which encomium we most heartily bid him ADIEU.

FOOTNOTES:

[1] Query, 'snob'?--Printer's Devil.

[2] The Poetical Recorder of the Doings of the Dublin Garrison dogs, in Bell's Life.

[3] Vide 'Barnwell and Alderson's Reports.'

[4] 'S,' for Scamperdale, showing they were his lordship's.