"Miss Mildred," he said slowly, "there is no use in disguises. We had better both recognize
the truth at once. At least it will be better for you, for then you may find a friend more
worthy of the name. Can you not see what I am--a broken reed? The vine could better sustain
a falling tree than I the one I loved, even though, like the vine, my heart clung to that one
as its sole support. You suffer; I am in torment. You are sad; I despair. You associate strength
and help with manhood, and you are right. You do not know that the weakest thing in the world
is a weak, helpless man. I am only strong to suffer. I can do nothing; I am nothing. It would
be impossible for me to explain how helpless and dependent I am--you could not understand it.
My whole heart went out to you, for you seemed both gentle and strong. The hope would grow
in my soul that you might be merciful to me when you came to know me as I am. Good-by, Millie
Jocelyn. You will find a friend strong and helpful as well as kind. As for me, my best hope
is to die." He bowed his head upon the hand he did not venture to kiss, and then almost fled
from the house.

Mildred was too much overcome by surprise and feeling to make any attempt to detain him. He
had virtually acknowledged his love for her, but never in her wildest fancy had she imagined
so dreary and sad a revelation.

Mrs. Jocelyn, perplexed by Mr. Arnold's abrupt departure, came in hastily, and Mildred told
her, with many tears, all that had been said. Even her mother's gentle nature could not prevent
harsh condemnation of the young man.

"So he could do nothing better than get up this little melodrama, and then hasten back to his
elegant home," she said, with a darkening frown.

Mildred shook her head and said, musingly, "I understand him better than you do, mamma, and
I pity him from the depths of my heart."

"I think it's all plain enough," said Mrs. Jocelyn, in a tone that was hard and unnatural in
her. "His rich parents tell him that he must not think of marrying a poor girl, and he is the
most dutiful of sons."

"You did not hear his words, mamma--you did not see him. Oh, if he should die! He looked like
death itself," and she gave way to such an agony of grief that her mother was alarmed on her
behalf, and wept, entreated, and soothed by turns until at last the poor child crept away with
throbbing temples to a long night of pain and sleeplessness. The wound was one that she must
hide in her own heart; her pallor and languor for several days proved how deep it had been.

But the truth that he loved her--the belief that he could never give to another what he had
given to her--had a secret and sustaining power. Hope is a hardy plant in the hearts of the
young. Though the future was dark, it still had its possibilities of good. Womanlike, she thought
more of his trouble than of her own, and that which most depressed her was the fear that his
health might give way utterly. "I can bear anything better than his death," she said to herself
a thousand times.

She made no tragic promises of constancy, nor did she indulge in very much sentimental dreaming.
She simply recognized the truth that she loved him--that her whole woman's heart yearned in
tenderness over him as one that was crippled and helpless. She saw that he was unable to stand
alone and act for himself, and with a sensitive pride all her own she shrank from even the
thought of forcing herself on the proud, rich family that had forbidden the alliance. Moreover,
she was a good-hearted, Christian girl, and perceived clearly that it was no time for her to
mope of droop.  Even on the miserable day which followed the interview that so sorely wounded
her, she made pathetic attempts to be cheerful and helpful, and as time passed she rallied
slowly into strength and patience.

The father's apparent efforts to keep up under his misfortune were also a great incentive to
earnest effort on her part. More than once she said in substance to her mother, "Papa is so
often hopeful, serene, and even cheerful, that we ought to try and show a like spirit. Even
when despondency does master him, and he becomes sad and irritable, he makes so brave an effort
that he soon overcomes his wretched mood and quietly looks on the brighter side. We ought to
follow his example." It would have been infinitely better had he followed theirs, and found
in prayer, faith, and manly courage the serenity and fortitude that were but the brief, deceptive,
and dangerous effects of a fatal poison.

It was decided that the family should spend the summer at some quiet farmhouse where the board
would be very inexpensive, and that Mr. Jocelyn, in the meantime, should remain in the city
in order to avail himself of any opening that he might discover.

After a day or two of search in the country, he found a place that he thought would answer,
and the family prepared as quickly as possible for what seemed to them like a journey to Siberia.

Mildred's farewell to her own private apartment was full of touching pathos. This room was
the outward expression not merely of a refined taste, but of some of the deepest feelings and
characteristics of her nature. In its furniture and adornment it was as dainty as her own delicate
beauty. She had been allowed to fit it up as she wished, and had lavished upon it the greater
part of her spending money. She had also bestowed upon it much thought, and the skilful work
of her own hands had eked out to a marvellous extent the limited sums that her father had been
able to give her.  The result was a prettiness and light, airy grace which did not suggest
the resting-place of an ordinary flesh-and-blood girl, but of one in whom the spiritual and
the love of the beautiful were the ruling forces of life.

It is surprising how character impresses itself on one's surroundings. Mrs. Arnold's elegant
home was a correct expression of herself. Stately, formal, slightly rigid, decidedly cold,
it suggested to the visitor that he would receive the courtesy to which his social position
entitled him, and nothing more. It was the result of an exact and logical mind, and could no
more unbend into a little comfortable disorder than the lady herself. She bestowed upon its
costly appointments the scrupulous care which she gave to her children, and her manner was
much the same in each instance. She was justly called a strong character, but she made herself
felt after the fashion of an artist with his hammer and chisel. Carved work is cold and rigid
at best.

Mildred had not as yet impressed people as a strong character. On the contrary, she had seemed
peculiarly gentle and yielding.  Vinton Arnold, however, in his deep need had instinctively
half guessed the truth, for her influence was like that of a warm day in spring, undemonstrative,
not self-asserting, but most powerful.  The tongue-tied could speak in her presence; the diffident
found in her a kindly sympathy which gave confidence; men were peculiarly drawn toward her
because she was so essentially womanly without being silly. Although as sprightly and fond
of fun as most young girls of her age, they recognized that she was perfectly truthful and
loyal to all that men--even bad men--most honor in a woman. They always had a good time in
her society, and yet felt the better and purer for it. Life blossomed and grew bright about
her from some innate influence that she exerted unconsciously.  After all there was no mystery
about it. She had her faults like others, but at heart she was genuinely good and unselfish.
The gentle mother had taught her woman's best graces of speech and manner; nature had endowed
her with beauty, and to that the world always renders homage.

There are thousands of very pretty girls who have no love for beauty save their own, which
they do their best to spoil by self-homage. To Mildred, on the contrary, the beautiful was
as essential as her daily food, and she excelled in all the dainty handicrafts by which women
can make a home attractive. Therefore her own little sanctum had developed like an exquisite
flower, and had become, as we have said, an expression of herself. An auctioneer, in dismantling
her apartment, would not have found much more to sell than if he had pulled a rose to pieces,
but left intact it was as full of beauty and fragrance as the flower itself. And yet her own
hands must destroy it, and in a brief time she must exchange its airy loveliness for a bare
room in a farmhouse. After that the future was as vague as it was clouded.  The pretty trifles
were taken down and packed away, with tears, as if she were laying them in graves.

CHAPTER V

THE RUDIMENTS OF A MAN

"Mother, I hain't no unison with it at all," said Farmer Atwood, leaning on the breakfast table
and holding aloft a knife and fork--formidable implements in his hands, but now unemployed
through perturbation of mind. "I hain't no unison with it--this havin' fine city folk right
in the family. 'Twill be pretty nigh as bad as visiting one's rich relations. I had a week
of that once, but, thank the Lord, I hain't been so afflicted since. I've seen 'em up at the
hotel and riding by too often not to know 'em. They are half conceit and half fine feathers,
and that doesn't leave many qualities as are suited to a farmhouse. Roger and me will have
to be--what was it that lecturin' professor called it--'deodorized' every mornin' after feedin'
and cleanin' the critters. We'll have to put on our go-to-meetin's, instead of sittin' down
in our shirt-sleeves comfortable like. I hain't no unison with it, and it's been a-growing
on me ever since that city chap persuaded you into being cook and chambermaid for his family."
And Farmer Atwood's knife and fork came down into the dish of ham with an onslaught that would
have appalled a Jew.

"The governor is right, mother," said the young man referred to as Roger. "We shall all be
in strait-jackets for the summer."

The speaker could not have been much more than twenty years old, although in form he appeared
a full-grown man. As he stood wiping his hands on a towel that hung in a corner of the large
kitchen, which, except on state occasions, also served as dining and sitting-room, it might
be noted that he was above medium height, broad-shouldered, and strongly built. When he crossed
the room his coarse working dress could not disguise the fact that he had a fine figure and
an easy bearing of the rustic, rough-and-ready style. He had been out in the tall, dew-drenched
grass, and therefore had tucked the lower part of his trousers in his boot tops, and, like
his father, dispensed with his coat in the warm June morning. As he drew a chair noisily across
the floor and sat down at the table, it was evident that he had a good though undeveloped face.
His upper lip was deeply shadowed by a coming event, to which he looked forward with no little
pride, and his well-tanned cheeks could not hide a faint glow of youthful color.  One felt
at a glance that his varying expressions could scarcely fail to reveal all that the young man
was now or could ever become, for his face suggested a nature peculiarly frank and rather matter-of-fact,
or at least unawakened. The traits of careless good-nature and self-confidence were now most
apparent.  He had always been regarded as a clever boy at home, and his rustic gallantry was
well received by the farmers' daughters in the neighborhood. What better proofs that he was
about right could a young fellow ask? He was on such good terms with himself and the world
that even the event which his father so deprecated did not much disturb his easy-going assurance.
He doubted, in his thoughts, whether the city girls would "turn up their noses" at him, and
if they did, they might, for all that he cared, for there were plenty of rural beauties with
whom he could console himself.  But, like his father, he felt that the careless undress and
freedom of their farm life would be criticised by the new-comers.  He proposed, however, to
make as little change as possible in his habits and dress, and to teach the Jocelyns that country
people had "as good a right to their ways as city people to theirs." Therefore the threatened
invasion did not in the least prevent him from making havoc in the substantial breakfast that
Mrs. Atwood and her daughter Susan put on the table in a haphazard manner, taking it from the
adjacent stove as fast as it was ready. A stolid-looking hired man sat opposite to Roger, and
shovelled in his food with his knife, with a monotonous assiduity that suggested a laborer
filling a coal-bin. He seemed oblivious to everything save the breakfast, and with the exception
of heaping his plate from time to time he was ignored by the family.

The men-folk were quite well along with their meal before Mrs. Atwood and Susan, flushed with
their labors about the stove, were ready to sit down. They were accustomed to hear the farmer
grumble, and, having carried their point, were in no haste to reply or to fight over a battle
that had been won already. Roger led to a slight resumption of hostilities, however, by a disposition--well-nigh
universal in brothers--to tease.

"Sue," he said, "will soon be wanting to get some feathers like those of the fine birds that
will light in our door-yard this evening."

"That's it," snarled the farmer; "what little you make will soon be on your backs or streamin'
away in ribbons."

"Well," said Mrs. Atwood, a little sharply, "it's quite proper that we should have something
on our backs, and if we earn the money to put it there ourselves, I don't see why you should
complain; as for ribbons, Sue has as good right to 'em as Roger to a span-new buggy that ain't
good for anything but taking girls out in."

"What made you have the seat so narrow, Roger?" asked Sue; "you couldn't squeeze three people
in to save your life."

"I'm content with one girl at a time," replied Roger, with a complacent shrug.

"And the same girl only one time, too, from what I hear. You've taken out all there are in
Forestville haven't you?"

"Haven't got quite around yet. And then some prudent mothers do think the seat a trifle narrow,
and the ones I'd like to take out most can't go. But there's plenty that can."

"And one is as good as another," added his sister, maliciously, "If she will only talk nonsense,
and let you hold her from falling out when you whisk over the thank-e-ma'ams."

"I didn't have to go from home to learn that most girls talk nonsense," laughed Roger. "By
the way, how did you learn about the thank-e-ma'ams? I didn't teach you."

"No, indeed! Sisters may fall out for all that brothers care."

"That depends on whose sisters they are," said Roger, rising. "I now perceive that mine has
been well taken care of."

"You think other young men have your pert ways," retorted Sue, reddening. "My friends have
manners."

"Oh, I see. They let you fall out, and then politely pick you up."

"Come, you are both in danger of falling out now," said the mother reprovingly.

Roger went off whistling to his work, and the hired man lumbered after him.

"Father," said Mrs. Atwood, "who'll go down to the river for the trunks?"

"Well, I s'pose I'll have to," grumbled Mr. Atwood. "Roger don't want to, and Jotham can do
more work in the cornfield than me."

"I'm glad you're so sensible. Riding down to the river and back will be a good bit easier than
hoeing corn all day. The stage will be along about five, I guess, and I'll get supper for 'em
in the sittin'-room, so you can eat in your shirt-sleeves, if that'll quiet your mind."

With the aspect of a November day Mr. Atwood got out the great farm-wagon and jogged down to
the landing on the Hudson, which was so distant as to insure his absence for several hours.

It was a busy day for Mrs. Atwood and Susan. Fresh bread and cake were to be baked, and the
rooms "tidied up" once more. A pitcher that had lost its handle was filled with old-fashioned
roses that persisted in blooming in a grass-choked flower-bed. This was placed in the room
designed for Mrs. Jocelyn and the children, while the one flower vase, left unbroken from the
days of Roger's boyish carelessness, adorned the smaller apartment that Mildred and Belle were
to occupy, and this was about the only element of elegance or beauty that Susan was able to
impart part to the bare little room. Even to the country girl, to whom the term "decorative
art" was but a vague phrase, the place seemed meagre and hard in its outlines, and she instinctively
felt that it would appear far more so to its occupants.

"But it's the best we can afford," she sighed; "and at the prices they'll pay us they shouldn't
complain."

Still the day was full of pleasurable excitement and anticipation to the young girl. She was
aware that her mother's tasks and her own would be greatly increased, but on the other hand
the monotony of the farm-house life would be broken, and in the more distant future she saw
a vista of new gowns, a jaunty winter hat with a feather, and other like conditions of unalloyed
happiness. Susan had dwelt thus far in one of life's secluded valleys, and if she lost much
because her horizon was narrow she was shielded from far more. Her fresh, full face had a certain
pleasant, wholesome aspect, like the fields about her home in June, as she bustled about, preparing
for the "city folks" whom her father so dreaded.

Roger's buggy was not yet paid for. It was the one great extravagance that Mr. Atwood had permitted
for many a year. As usual, his wife had led him into it, he growling and protesting, but unable
to resist her peculiar persistency. Roger was approaching man's estate, and something must
be done to signalize so momentous an event. A light buggy was the goal of ambition to the young
men in the vicinity, and Roger felt that he could never be a man without one. He also recognized
it as the best means of securing a wife to his mind, for courting on a moonlit, shadowy road
was far more satisfactory than in the bosom of the young woman's family. Not that he was bent
on matrimony, but rather on several years of agreeable preparation for it, proposing to make
tentative acquaintances, both numerous and miscellaneous.

In his impatience to secure this four-wheeled compendium of happiness he had mortgaged his
future, and had promised his father to plant and cultivate larger areas. The shrewd farmer
therefore had no prospect of being out of pocket, for the young man was keeping his word. The
acres of the cornfield were nearly double those of the previous year, and on them Roger spent
the long hot day in vigorous labor in preference to the easy task of going to the river for
the luggage. Dusty and weary, but in excellent spirits over the large space that he and the
hired man had "hilled up," he went whistling home through the long shadows of the June evening.
The farm wagon stood in the door-yard piled with trunks.  The front entrance of the house--rarely
used by the family--was open, and as he came up the lane a young girl emerged from it, and
leaned for a few moments against the outer pillar of the little porch, unconscious of the picture
she made. A climbing rose was in bloom just over her head, and her cheeks, flushed with heat
and fatigue, vied with them in color. She had exchanged her travelling-dress for one of light
muslin, and entwined in her hair a few buds from the bush that covered the porch. If Roger
was not gifted with a vivid imagination he nevertheless saw things very accurately, and before
he reached the head of the lane admitted to himself that the old "front steps" had never been
so graced before. He had seen many a rustic beauty standing there when his sister had company,
but the city girl impressed him with a difference which he then could not understand. He was
inclined to resent this undefined superiority, and he muttered, "Father's right. They are birds
of too fine a feather for our nest."

He had to pass near her in order to reach the kitchen door, or else make a detour which his
pride would not permit. Indeed, the youth plodded leisurely along with his hoe on his shoulder,
and scrupled not to scrutinize the vision on the porch with the most matter-of-fact minuteness.

"What makes her so 'down in the mouth'?" he queried. "She doesn't fancy us barbarians, I suppose,
and Forestville to her is a howling wilderness. Like enough she'll take me for an Indian."

Mildred's eyes were fixed on a great shaggy mountain in the west, that was all the more dark
and forbidding in its own deep shadow. She did not see it, however, for her mind was dwelling
on gloomier shadows than the mountain cast.

As he passed he caught her attention, and stepping toward him a little impatiently, she said,

"I suppose you belong to the premises?"

He made an awkward attempt at a bow, and said stiffly, "I'm one of the Atwood chattels."

The answer was not such as she expected, and she gave him a scrutinizing glance. "Surely, if
I have ever seen a laborer, he's one," she thought, as with woman's quickness she inventoried
his coarse, weather-stained straw hat, blue cotton shirt crossed by suspenders mended with
strings, shapeless trousers, once black, but now of the color of the dusty cornfield, and shoes
such as she had never seen on the avenue. Even if Roger's face had not been discolored by perspiration
and browned by exposure, its contrast with the visage that memory kept before her but too constantly
would not have been pleasing. Nothing in his appearance deterred her from saying briefly, "I
wish you would bring those trunks to our rooms. We have already waited for them some little
time, and Mr. Atwood said that his man would attend to them when he came home from his work."

"That's all right, but I'm not his man, and with another stiff bow he passed on.

"Roger," called Mrs. Atwood from the kitchen door, "where's Jotham?"

"Bringing home the cows."

"The ladies want their trunks," continued his mother, in a sharp, worried tone. "I wish you
men-folks would see to 'em right away. Why couldn't you quit work a little earlier to-night?"

Roger made no reply, but proceeded deliberately to help himself to a wash-basin and water.

"Look here, Roger," said his mother, in a tone she seldom used, "if those trunks are not where
they belong in ten minutes, Susan and I'll take 'em up ourselves."

"That would be a pretty story to go out," added his sister.  "Little use your buggy would be
to you then, for no nice girl would ride with you."

"Come, come, what's the use of such a bother!" said the young man irritably. "Mother knows
that I'd carry the trunks up on Bald-Top before I'd let her touch them. That's the way it will
always be with these city people, I suppose. Everybody must jump and run the moment they speak.
Father's right, and we'll have to give up our old free-and-easy life and become porters and
waiting-maids."

"I've heard enough of that talk," said Mrs. Atwood emphatically. "Your father's been like a
drizzling northeaster all day. Now I give you men-folks fair warning. If you want any supper
you must wake up and give me something better than grumbling. I'm too hot and tired now to
argue over something that's been settled once for all."

The "warning" had the desired effect, for Mrs. Atwood was the recognized head of the commissary
department, and, as such, could touch the secret springs of motives that are rarely resisted.

The open kitchen windows were so near that Mildred could not help overhearing this family jar,
and it added greatly to her depression. She felt that they had not only lost their own home,
but were also banishing the home feeling from another family. She did but scant justice to
Mrs. Atwood's abundant supper, and went to her room at last with that most disagreeable of
all impressions--the sense of being an intruder.

The tired children were soon at rest, for their time of sleepless trouble was far distant.
Belle's pretty head drooped also with the roses over the porch as the late twilight deepened.
To her and the little people the day had been rich in novelty, and the country was a wonderland
of many and varied delights. In the eyes of children the Garden of Eden survives from age to
age. Alas! the tendency to leave it survives also, and to those who remain, regions of beauty
and mystery too often become angular farms and acres.

Mrs. Jocelyn and Mildred still more clearly illustrated the truth that the same world wears
a different aspect as the conditions of life vary. They were going out into the wilderness.
The river was a shining pathway, whose beauty was a mockery, for it led away from all that
they loved best. The farmhouse was a place of exile, and its occupants a strange, uncouth people
with whom they felt that they would have nothing in common. Mrs. Jocelyn merely looked forward
to weeks of weary waiting until she could again join her husband, to whom in his despondency
her heart clung with a remorseful tenderness. She now almost wished that they had lived on
bread and water, and so had provided against this evil day of long separation and dreary uncertainty.
Now that she could no longer rest in her old belief that there would be "some way" of tiding
over every financial crisis, she became a prey to forebodings equally vague that there might
be no way. That HER HUSBAND could spend day after day seeking employment, offering, too, to
take positions far inferior to the one he had lost, was a truth that at first bewildered and
then disheartened her beyond measure. She felt that they must, indeed, have fallen on evil
times when his services went a-begging.

To Mildred the present was dark, and the future most unpromising; but deep in her heart nestled
the sustaining thought that she was not unloved, not forgotten. The will of others, not his
own, kept her lover from her side. His weaknesses were of a nature that awakened her pity rather
than contempt. If he had been a Hercules physically and a Bacon intellectually, but conceited,
domineering, untruthful, and of the male flirt genus--from such weaknesses she would have shrunk
with intense repugnance. Her friends thought her peculiarly gentle in disposition. They did
not know--and she herself might rarely recognize the truth--that she was also very strong;
her strength on its human side consisted in a simple, unswerving fidelity to her womanly nature
and sense of right; on the Divine side, God's word was to her a verity. She daily said "Our
Father" as a little child. Has the world yet discovered a purer or loftier philosophy?

CHAPTER VI

ROGER DISCOVERS A NEW TYPE

Young Atwood rose with a very definite purpose on the following morning. For his mother's sake
he would be civil to their boarders, but nothing more. He would learn just what they had a
right to expect in view of their business relations, and having performed all that was "nominated
in the bond," would treat them with such an off-hand independence that they would soon become
aware that he, Roger Atwood, was an entity that could exist without their admiring approval.
He meant that they should learn that the country was quite as large as the city, and that the
rural peculiarities of Forestville were as legitimate as those which he associated with them,
and especially with the young lady who had mistaken him for the hired man. Therefore after
his morning work in the barnyard he stalked to the house with the same manner and toilet as
on the previous day.

But there were no haughty citizens to be toned down. They were all sleeping late from the fatigues
of their journey, and Mrs. Atwood said she would give the "men-folks their breakfast at the
usual hour, because a hungry man and a cross bear were nigh of kin."

The meal at first was a comparatively silent one, but Roger noted with a contemptuous glance
that his sister's hair was arranged more neatly than he had seen it since the previous Sunday,
and that her calico dress, collar, and cuffs were scrupulously clean.

"Expecting company?" he asked maliciously.

She understood him and flushed resentfully. "If you wish to go around looking like a scarecrow,
that's no reason why I should," she said. "The corn is too large for the crows to pull now,
so if I were you I would touch myself up a little. I don't wonder that Miss Jocelyn mistook
you for Jotham."

"It's well," retorted Roger, with some irritation, "that your Miss Jocelyn has no grown brothers
here, or you would come down to breakfast in kid gloves. I suppose, however, that they have
insisted on a tidy and respectful waitress. Will you please inform me, mother, what my regulation
costume must be when my services are required? Jotham and I should have a suit of livery, with
two more brass buttons on my coat to show that I belong to the family."

"I think that a little more of the manner and appearance of a gentleman would show your relationship
better than any amount of brass," remarked his mother quietly.

Roger was almost through his breakfast, and so, at no great loss, could assume the injured
part. Therefore with a dignity that was somewhat in marked contrast with his rather unkempt
appearance he rose and stalked off to the cornfield again.

"Umph," remarked Mr. Atwood sententiously, as he rose and followed his son. This apparently
vague utterance had for his wife a definite and extended meaning. She looked annoyed and flurried,
and was in no mood for the labors of preparing a second breakfast.

"The men-folks had better not roil me up too much," she said to her daughter. "If your father
had said No! out and out, I wouldn't have brought strangers into his home. But he kinder wanted
me to have their money without the bother of having them around. Now one thing is settled--he
must either help me make it pleasant for these people, or else tell them to leave this very day."

"And how about Roger?" asked Susan, still under the influence of pique.

"Oh, Roger is young and foolish. He's a-growing yet," and the mother's severe aspect relaxed.
He was her only boy.

Mr. Atwood, brought face to face with the alternative presented by his practical wife, succumbed
with tolerable grace. In truth, having had his grumble out, he was not so very averse to the
arrangement. He was much like old Gruff, their watch-dog, that was a redoubtable growler, but
had never been known to bite any one. He therefore installed himself as his wife's out-of-door
ally and assistant commissary, proposing also to take the boarders out to drive if they would
pay enough to make it worth the while. As for Roger, he resolved to remain a farmer and revolve
in his old orbit.

Mrs. Jocelyn and Mildred were listless and depressed, and time hung heavily on their hands.
They were in that condition of waiting and uncertainty which renders cheerful or systematic
occupation wellnigh impossible. They daily hoped that a letter would come assuring them that
Mr. Jocelyn had secured a position that would change all their future for the better, but the
letters received recorded futile efforts only, and often despondency; but occasionally there
would come a letter full of vague, sanguine hopes that first produced elation and then perplexity
that nothing came of them. His wife found his dejection contagious. If she had been with him
she would have made strenuous efforts to cheer and inspirit, but without an unselfish woman's
strongest motive for action she brooded and drooped. Belle's irrepressible vivacity and the
children's wild delight over the wonders of the fields and farmyard jarred upon her sore heart
painfully. She patiently tried to take care of them, but in thought and feeling she could not
enter into their life as had been her custom. Belle was too young and giddy for responsibility,
and Mildred had many a weary chase after the little explorers. In spite of his clearly defined
policy of indifference, Roger found himself watching her on such occasions with a growing interest.
It was evident to him that she did not in the slightest degree resent his daily declaration
of independence; indeed, he saw that she scarcely gave him any thoughts whatever--that he was
to her no more than heavy-footed Jotham.

"She does not even consider me worth snubbing," he thought, with much dissatisfaction, about
a week subsequent to their arrival.

In vain, after the labors of the day, he dressed in his best suit and sported a flaming necktie;
in vain he dashed away in his buggy, and, a little later, dashed by again with a rural belle
at his side. He found himself unable to impress the city girl as he desired, or to awaken in
her a sense of his importance. And yet he already began to feel, in a vague way, that she was
not so distant TO him, as distant FROM him.

Belle soon formed his acquaintance, asking innumerable questions and not a few favors, and
she found him more good-natured than she had been led to expect. At last, to her great delight,
he took her with him in his wagon to the post-office. The lively girl interested and amused
him, but he felt himself immeasurably older than she. With a tendency common to very young
men, he was more interested in the elder sister, who in character and the maturity that comes
from experience was certainly far beyond him. Belle he understood, but Mildred was a mystery,
and she had also the advantage of being a very beautiful one.

As time passed and no definite assurances came from her father, the young girl was conscious
of a growing dissatisfaction with the idle, weary waiting to which she and her mother were
condemned.  She felt that it might have been better for them all to have remained in the city,
in spite of the summer heat, than thus to be separated. She believed that she might have found
something to do which would have aided in their support, and she understood more clearly than
her mother that their slender means were diminishing fast. That she could do anything at a
country farmhouse to assist her father seemed very doubtful, but she felt the necessity of
employment more strongly each day, not only for the sake of the money it might bring, but also
as an antidote to a growing tendency to brood over her deep disappointment. She soon began
to recognize that such self-indulgence would unfit her for a struggle that might be extended
and severe, and was not long in coming to the conclusion that she must make the best of her
life as it was and would be. Days and weeks had slipped by and had seen her looking regretfully
back at the past, which was receding like the shores of a loved country to an exile. Since
the prospect of returning to it was so slight, it would be best to turn her thoughts and such
faint hope as she could cherish toward the vague and unpromising future. At any rate she must
so occupy herself as to have no time for morbid self-communings.

Her first resource was the homely life and interests of those with whom she dwelt. Thus far
she had regarded them as uncongenial strangers, and had contented herself with mere politeness
toward them. In her sad preoccupation she had taken little note of their characters or domestic
life, and her mother had kept herself even more secluded. Indeed the poor lady felt that it
was hardly right to smile in view of her husband's absence and misfortune, and she often chided
Belle for her levity; but Belle's life was like an over-full fountain in spring-time, and could
not be repressed.

In her deep abstraction Mildred had seen, but had scarcely noted, certain changes in the farmhouse
that would have interested and pleased her had her mind been at rest. Almost unconsciously
she had revealed her love of that which is pretty and inviting; therefore Susan, not content
with being neat, was inclined to brighten her costume by an occasional ribbon, and to suggest
comparisons between her fresh and youthful bloom and an opening flower that she would fasten
in her hair as the summer day declined. So far from resenting this imitation of her own habits
and tastes, Mildred at last recognized the young girl's awakening perceptions of womanly grace
with much satisfaction. Even poor Mrs. Atwood exhibited a tendency to emerge from her chronic
and rather forlorn condition of household drudge. For years she had known and thought of little
else save sordid work, early and late.  The income from the small farm permitted no extra help
except on rare occasions, and then was obtained under protest from her husband, who parted
with a dollar as he would with a refractory tooth. His strong and persistent will had impressed
itself on his family, and their home life had been meagre and uninviting; the freedom and ease
that he and Roger were so loath to lose, consisting chiefly in careless dress and a disregard
of the little refinements and courtesies of life.

It was with some self-reproach that Mildred admitted that for nearly a month she had practically
ignored these people, and that she was becoming selfish in her trouble; and yet, not so much
from a sense of duty, as from a kindling zest in life, she began to take an interest in them
and their ways. She was still far too young for her spirit to lose its spring, even under a
continuous weight of misfortune. Her nature was not morbid, but sunny and wholesome, and when
with the children and Belle unexpected smiles would brighten her face like glints of sunshine
here and there on a cloudy day. Deep as had been her wounds, she found that there were moments
when she half forgot their pain, and an instinct of self-preservation taught her that it would
be best to forget them as far as possible.

When the thought of trying to refine the somewhat rude household in which she dwelt occurred
to her, she discovered that the work was already well begun, for the chief condition of success
was present--the disposition to do as she would like. The Atwoods soon surmised that the family
was in trouble of some kind, and were able to distinguish between pride of caste and a sorrowful
preoccupation. It was scarcely in Mrs. Jocelyn and Mildred's nature to speak otherwise than
gently and kindly, and so without trying they disarmed their hosts and won their sympathy.
Notwithstanding their dejection and lassitude, they maintained the habits of their lives, and
unwittingly gave Mrs. Atwood and her daughter a vague impression that neatness, attractiveness,
and order were as essential as good morals.

At first Roger had dressed more roughly than ever, in order to assert his right to his old
ways, but as Mildred did not protest even by a glance, he next took pains to show her that
he had "good clothes" if he chose to wear them. This fact she also accepted without the faintest
interest, and so at last he was rather nonplussed. He was not accustomed to being politely
ignored, and since he felt a growing interest in this new type of girl, he had an increasing
desire to make her aware of his existence. "Hang it all," he would mutter, "I'm no more to
her than Jotham and the other farm animals. What can a fellow do to make her look at him as
if she saw him? She's very kind and polite and all that; she'd as soon hurt the brindle cow
as me, but this fact is not very flattering. However, I'll find you out, my lady, and you too
shall learn that the one whom you now regard as an object merely has a will and a way of his own."

Therefore it may be guessed that in Roger Mildred might discover more docility and plastic
readiness than she desired. Only old Mr. Atwood and Jotham seemed incorrigible material; but
she did not despair even of them, and resolved to set about reclaiming this family from barbarism
at once.

CHAPTER VII

COMPARISONS

"Mrs. Atwood," said Mildred one Saturday evening, "I'll go with you to church to-morrow if
you'll let me. Belle has been once, and it will be my turn to-morrow."

"Oh, certainly, miss; you will go with Roger in the buggy, I s'pose, like Miss Belle."

"If you please, I'd rather go with you."

"Really, miss, the roads have been muddy of late, and the wagon isn't very nice."

"I would rather go with you," pleaded Mildred, with an appeal in her blue eyes that few resisted.

"Father," said Mrs. Atwood, as soon as her husband came in, "Miss Jocelyn wishes to go with
us to meeting to-morrow. Can't you or Roger tidy up the wagon a bit? 'Tain't fit for her to
ride in."

"There'tis again--more time spent in fixing up and fussing than in looking after the main chance.
You are all gettin' too fine for plain farmin' people."

"I don't see why plain farming people need enjoy mud more'n other folks. You ought to be ashamed
to ask your wife and daughter to ride in such a wagon."

"I don't know why I should be more ashamed to-morrow than on any other Sunday, and you was
never ashamed before. Your boarders don't seem inclined to take any rides and pay for them,
so I don't see why I should fix up any more'n usual. Anyhow, it's too late now; Jotham's gone
home, I'm too tired, and Roger's dressed to go out. Why can't she go with Roger?"

"She says she'd rather go with us, and if you men-folk let her ride in that wagon I hope the
minister will give you a scorching sermon"--and she turned toward her son, who, dressed in
his rural finery, was finishing an early supper, To her surprise he, from whom she expected
no aid, gave her a significant nod and put his finger on his lips. He had already decided upon
one bold stratagem, in the hope of opening Mildred's eyes, and if this failed his mother's
words suggested another line of policy.

"Sue," he said, with affected carelessness, "I may bring Amelia Stone to spend part of the
evening with you."

"Amelia Stone isn't my style, if the young men do say she's the prettiest girl in town."

"If you don't treat her well she'll think you're jealous," said Roger, and with this artful
stroke he departed to carry out his experiment. "I'll teach my city lady that I'm not a clodhopper
that other girls won't look at," he thought as he drove away.

Everything went according to his mind, for Amelia broke an engagement in order to come with
him, and was very friendly. The young fellow thought that Mildred must see that he was not
a person to be politely ignored when so handsome a girl was flattering in her favors. Susan
would not be thought jealous for the world, and so was rather effusive over Miss Stone. She
also imbibed the idea that it might be a good chance to make Mildred aware that they knew some
nice, stylish people; therefore, as the rural beauty mounted the steps of the porch she introduced
her to Mildred and Belle. Roger meanwhile stood near, and critically compared the two, girls.
They certainly represented two very different types, and he might have brought a score of his
acquaintances that would have been more to Mildred's taste than the florid beauty whose confidence
was boldness, and who had inventoried her own pronounced charms more often than had any of
her admirers. One girl was a lily, with a character like a delicate, elusive fragrance; the
other, a tulip, very striking, especially at a distance. The one no more asserted herself than
did the summer evening; the manner of the other the same as button-holed all present, and demanded
attention. Her restless black eyes openly sought admiration, and would speedily sparkle with
anger and malice should their request be unrewarded. Roger was quick enough to feel Mildred's
superiority, although he could scarcely account for it, and he soon experienced so strong a
revulsion of feeling toward his unconscious ally that he would have taken her home again with
a sense of relief.

"If Miss Jocelyn thinks that's the style of girl that takes with me, I might as well have remained
a scarecrow. Amelia Stone seems loud as a brass band beside her," and his gallantries perceptibly
diminished.

True to her nature, Amelia assumed toward him what she imagined were very pretty airs of proprietorship.
Eoger knew well that her manner would have been the same toward the youth with whom, from a
sudden caprice, she had broken her engagement for the evening. Her habitual coquetry nevertheless
unwittingly carried out his original programme with a success that made him grind his teeth
with rage, for he supposed that Mildred would gain the idea that they were congenial spirits
drawn together by strong affinities.

And she, half divining his vexation, shrewdly increased it by pretending to associate him with
the transparent coquette, while at the same time manifesting disapproval of her by a fine reserve.
Amelia felt herself scanned quietly, coldly, and half curiously, as if she belonged to some
strange and hitherto unknown type, and her vivacious egotism began to fail her. She was much
relieved therefore when Mildred excused herself and went to her room, for careless, light-hearted,
and somewhat giddy Belle imposed no restraint. Roger, however, did not recover himself, for
he saw that he had made a false step in his effort to win recognition from Mildred, and he
waited impatiently until his companion should suggest returning. This she soon did, and they
rode toward her home with a mutual sense of dissatisfaction. At last Amelia broke out, "I think
she's absurdly proud!"

"Who?" Eoger asked demurely.

"You know who well enough. I thank my stars we have no city folks putting on airs around our
house. I suppose you think her perfection. You looked as if you did."

"I'm not acquainted with her," he said quietly.

"Not acquainted! Darsn't you speak to her high mightiness then?"

"Oh, yes, I can speak to her when there is occasion, but that does not make one acquainted.
I don't understand her."

"I do, perfectly. She thinks herself a wonderful deal better than you or me."

"Perhaps she is," he admitted.

"Well! that's a nice speech to make to ME! I was a fool to break my engagement and go with you."

"All right," responded Eoger, with satirical good-nature, as he assisted her to alight; "we'll
both know better next time."

She would not speak to Mm again, but he escorted her to her door, and bowed in parting with
mocking politeness. Instead of inviting him in, as was her custom, she closed the door with
a sharpness that spoke volumes.

"I don't believe Miss Jocelyn ever banged a door like that in her life," he muttered with a
smile as he hastened homeward.

Hearing unusual sounds in the farmyard before retiring, Mildred peeped out from under her curtain.
The moonlight revealed that Roger was washing the wagon with a vigor that made her laugh, and
she thought, "After what I have seen this evening, I think I can civilize him."

CHAPTER VIII

CHANGES

Bent upon carrying out her project of introducing among the Atwoods a more gracious and genial
family life, and lured by the fresh coolness of the summer morning, Mildred left her room earlier
than usual. Mrs. Atwood, whose one indulgence was a longer sleep on the day of rest, came down
not very long after and began bustling about the kitchen. Hitherto their meals had been served
to the Jocelyns in the sitting-room, the farmer and his family eating as before in the kitchen.
Mildred felt that they had no right to impose this extra labor on Mrs. Atwood, especially on
the Sabbath, and she also thought it would do her mother good to be roused from the listless
apathy into which she was sinking. These were her chief motives, but she knew that at no other
place could people be taught the refinements of life more effectually than at the table, and
it was her plan to bring about the changes she desired, without appearing to be the conscious
cause.

"Mrs. Atwood," she said, "why can we not all take our breakfast together in the sitting-room
this morning? I have noticed that your hired man is absent on Sundays"--her zeal for reform
would not induce her to sit down with Jotham--"and I can see no reason why you should have
the task to-day of preparing two meals. Of course, if this is not agreeable to you let there
be no change, but do not put yourself to the extra trouble on our account."

"Well, now, miss, you are very kind, and to tell you the truth, I was thinking of this very
thing, but we don't wish to intrude."

"Intrude, Mrs. Atwood!" exclaimed Mildred, assuming surprise. "I don't understand you, and
shall now feel hurt if we do not take our meals together to-day."

"It's very good of you to think of us, and Susan and me will have a more restful day."

Mildred gave her one of her rare smiles, which Mrs. Atwood said "lighted up the old kitchen
like a ray of sunshine," and then went to prepare her mother and sister for the change. Belle
was pleased, as she ever was with novelty.

"Millie," she cried, "you shall sit next to that great animal, Jotham, and if you don't take
care he'll eat you unawares."

"Jotham is not here to-day, and I'll have him fed in the kitchen hereafter."

"Have you become mistress of the farmhouse? Has Roger made proposals? Won't it be fun to hear
Mr. Atwood grumble! There is nothing I enjoy more than to hear him grumble and old Gruff growl.
They must be chips off the same block."

Mrs. Jocelyn shrank from seeing and speaking to any one, bat was much too unselfish to impose
extra tasks on Mrs. Atwood.

Susan soon came down to assist her mother, and was delighted at the prospect of taking her
meals in the sitting-room, feeling that it was a decided social promotion. Moreover, like all
young girls, she longed for companionship, and believed that Mildred would now be more approachable.

By and by Roger came from the barnyard in his working-clothes, and seeing no preparations for
breakfast in the kitchen, exclaimed:

"So we heathen must sit down to the second table to-day."

"Yes, if you wish. Susan and me are going to take our breakfast in the sitting-room with Mrs.
Jocelyn and her family."

"Am I not invited?" he asked a little anxiously.

"There's no need of any invitation. You have as much right there as I have, only I would not
come in looking like that."

"They won't like it--this new arrangement."

"It seems to me that you have grown very considerate of what they like," put in Susan.

"Miss Jocelyn proposed it herself," Mrs. Atwood said, "and if you and father would fix up a
little and come in quietly and naturally it would save a deal of trouble. If I can't get a
little rest on Sunday I'll wear out."

Roger waited to hear no more, and went hastily to his room.

Mr. Atwood was more intractable. He distinguished the Sabbath from the rest of the week, by
making the most of his larger leisure to grumble.

"I'm in no state to sit down with those people," he growled, after the change and the reasons
for it had been explained to him.

"I'm glad you feel so," his wife replied; "but your old clothes have not yet grown fast to
you; you can soon fix yourself up, and you might as well dress before breakfast as after it."

He was perverse, however, and would make no greater concession to the unwelcome innovation
than to put on his coat. Mildred smiled mentally when she saw him lowering at the head of the
table, but an icicle could no more continue freezing in the sun than he maintain his surly
mood before her genial, quiet greeting. It suggested courtesy so irresistibly, and yet so unobtrusively,
that he already repented his lack of it. Still, not for the world would he have made any one
aware of his compunctions. Mrs. Atwood and Susan had their doubts about Roger, fearing that
he would rebel absolutely and compel a return to their former habits. They were all scarcely
seated, however, before he appeared, a little flushed from his hasty toilet and the thought
of meeting one who had been cold and disapproving toward the belle of Forestville, but Mildred
said "good-morning" so affably and naturally that he was made quite at ease, and Mrs. Jocelyn,
who had seemed unapproachable, smiled upon him so kindly that he was inclined to believe her
almost as pretty as her daughter. As for Belle and the children, he already felt well acquainted
with them. Mrs. Atwood and Susan looked at each other significantly, for Roger was dressed
in his best and disposed to do his best. Mildred saw the glance, and felt that the young fellow
deserved some reward, so she began talking to him in such a matter-of-course way that before
he was aware he was responding with a freedom that surprised all the family, and none more
than himself. Mildred was compelled to admit that the "young barbarian," as she had characterized
him in her thoughts, possessed, in the item of intelligence, much good raw material. He not
only had ideas, but also the power of expressing them, with freshness and vivacity. She did
not give herself sufficient credit for the effects that pleased her, or understand that it
was her good breeding and good will that banished his tongue-tied embarrassment. The most powerful
influences are usually the most subtle, and Roger found, as had Vinton Arnold and others, that
for some cause Mildred evoked the best there was in him.

Poor Mrs. Jocelyn did not have very much to say. Her depression was too deep to be thrown off
appreciably, but she replied to Mrs. Atwood's remarks with her wonted gentleness. Belle's spirits
soon passed all bounds, and one of her wild sallies provoked a grim smile from even Mr. Atwood,
and she exulted over the fact all day. In brief, the ice seemed quite broken between the family
and the "boarders."

The old farmer could scarcely believe his eyes when he went out to harness the horses to the
three-seated wagon, for it was neat and clean, with buffalo robes spread over the seats. "Well,"
he ejaculated, "what's a-coming over this here family, anyway? I'm about all that's left of
the old rusty times, and rusty enough I feel, with everybody and everything so fixed up. I
s'pose I'll have to stand it Sundays, and the day'll be harder to git through than ever. To-morrow
I'll be back in the kitchen again, and can eat my victuals without Miss Jocelyn looking on
and saying to herself, 'He ain't nice; he don't look pretty'; and then a-showin' me by the
most delicate little ways how I ought to perform. She's got Roger under her thumb or he wouldn't
have cleaned up this wagon in the middle of the night, for all I know, but I'm too old and
set to be made over by a girl."

Thus grumbling and mumbling to himself, Mr. Atwood prepared to take his family to the white,
tree-shadowed meeting-house, at which he seldom failed to appear, for the not very devotional
reason that it helped him to get through the day. Like the crab-apple tree in the orchard,
he was a child of the soil, and savored too much of his source.

Roger was of finer metal, and while possessing his father's shrewdness, hard common-sense and
disposition to hit the world between the eyes if it displeased him, his nature was ready at
slight incentive, to throw off all coarseness and vulgarity. The greater number of forceful
American citizens are recruited from the ranks of just such young men--strong, comparatively
poor, somewhat rude in mind and person at the start, but of such good material that they are
capable of a fine finish.

Roger had grown naturally, and healthily, thus far. He had surpassed the average boy on the
play-ground, and had fallen slightly below him in the school-house, but more from indifference
and self-assurance than lack of ability. Even his father's narrow thrift could not complain
of his work when he would work, but while a little fellow he was inclined to independence,
and persisted in having a goodly share of his time for the boyish sports in their season, and
for all the books of travel and adventure he could lay his hands upon. In spite of scoldings
and whippings he had sturdily held his own, and at last his father had discovered that Roger
could be led much better than driven, and that by getting him interested, and by making little
agreements, like that concerning the buggy, the best of the bargain could always be obtained,
for the youth would then work with a will and carry out his verbal contracts in a large, good-natured
way.  Therefore Mildred's belief that he was good raw material for her humanizing little experiment
had a better foundation than she knew. Indeed, without in the least intending it, she might
awaken a spirit that would assert itself in ways as yet undreamed of by either of them. The
causes which start men upon their careers are often seemingly the most slight and causal. Mildred
meant nothing more than to find a brief and kindly-natured pastime in softening the hard lives
and in rounding the sharp angles of the Atwood family, and Roger merely came in for his share
of her attention. Flesh and spirit, however, are not wood and stone, and she might learn in
deep surprise that her light aesthetic touches, while producing pleasing changes in externals,
had also awakened some of the profoundest motives and forces that give shape and color to life.

In smiling ignorance of such possibilities, she said to him as she came out on the porch dressed
for church, "You have given your mother and me also a pleasant surprise, and we shall enjoy
our ride to church far more, not only because the wagon is nice and clean, but also because
of your thoughtfulness of our pleasure.  The wagon looked so inviting from our windows that
I have induced my mother to go, and to take the children. I think they will keep still. We
will sit near the door, and I can take them out if they get tired."

Her words were very simple, but she spoke them with a quiet grace all her own, while pulling
her glove over a hand that seemed too small and white for any of the severer tasks of life.
As she stood there in her pretty summer costume, a delicate bloom in her cheeks relieving the
transparent fairness of her complexion, she seemed to him, as Amelia Stone had said, perfect
indeed--and the young girl could not suppress a smile at the almost boyish frankness of his
admiration.

"You gave me a pleasant surprise, also," he said, flushing deeply.

"I?" with a questioning glance.

"Yes. You have brought about a pleasant change, and made breakfast something more than eating.
You have made me feel that I might be less nigh of kin to Jotham than I feared."

"I shall imitate your frankness," she replied, laughing; "you are not near so nigh of kin to
him as I feared."

"I have not forgotten that you thought me identical with him," he could not forbear saying.

"I did not mean to hurt your feelings," she answered, with deepening color.

"Oh, you were not to blame in the least," he said good-naturedly. "I deserved it."

"You must remember, too," she continued, deprecatingly, "that I am a city girl, and not acquainted
with country ways, and so have charity." Then she added earnestly, "We do not want to put a
constraint on your family life, or make home seem less homelike to you all."

Mrs. Jocelyn with Belle and the children were descending the stairs. "I misunderstood you,
Miss Jocelyn," said Roger, with a penitent look, and he hastily strode away.

"I've disarmed him," thought Mildred, with a half smile. She had, a little too completely.

Belle claimed her old place with Roger, and their light wagon was soon lost in the windings
of the road.

"Millie," whispered Belle, as the former joined her at church, "what could you have said to
Roger to make him effervesce so remarkably? I had to remind him that it was Sunday half a dozen
times."

"What a great boy he is!" answered Mildred.

"The idea of my teaching him sobriety seemed to amuse him amazingly."

"And no wonder. You are both giddy children."

"Until to-day, when you have turned his head, he has been very aged in manner. Please let him
alone hereafter; he is my property."

"Keep him wholly," and the amused look did not pass from Mildred's face until service began.

Dinner was even a greater success than breakfast. Mrs. Jocelyn had become better acquainted
with Mrs. Atwood during the drive, and they were beginning to exchange housekeeping opinions
with considerable freedom, each feeling that she could learn from the other. Fearing justly
that a long period of poverty might be before them, Mrs. Jocelyn was awakening to the need
of acquiring some of Mrs. Atwood's power of making a little go a great way, and the thought
of thus becoming able to do something to assist her absent husband gave her more animation
than she had yet shown in her exile. Mildred ventured to fill her vase with some hardy flowers
that persisted in blooming under neglect, and to place it on the table, and she was greatly
amused to see its effect on Roger and Mr. Atwood. The latter stared at it and then at his wife.

"Will any one take some of the flowers?" he asked at last, in ponderous pleasantry.

"I think we all had better take some, father," said Roger. "I would not have believed that
so little a thing could have made so great a difference."

"Well, what is the difference?"

"I don't know as I can express it, but it suggests that a great deal might be enjoyed that
one could not put in his mouth or his pocket."

"Mr. Roger," cried Belle, "you are coming on famously. I didn't know that you were inclined,
hitherto, to put everything you liked in your mouth or pocket. What escapes some people may
have had."

"I never said I liked you," retorted the youth, with a touch of the broad repartee with which
he was accustomed to hold his own among the girls in the country.

"No, but if I saw that you liked some one else I might be alarmed"--and she looked mischievously
toward Mildred.

For reasons inexplicable to himself, he fell into a sudden confusion at this sally.

With a warning glance at the incorrigible Belle, whose vital elements were frolic and nonsense,
Mildred began talking to Mr. Atwood about the great hotel a few miles distant.

"Would you like to go there?" asked Roger after a little.

"No," she said; "I have not the slightest wish to go there." Indeed there was nothing that
she shrank from more than the chance of meeting those who had known her in the city.

Later in the day Susan said to her mother, with much satisfaction, "She's not stuck up at all,
and we might have found it out before. I can't go back to the kitchen and live in our old haphazard
way. I can see now that it wasn't nice at all."

"We'll see," said the politic Mrs. Atwood. "We mustn't drive father too fast."

Roger felt that at last he was getting acquainted, and he looked forward to the long summer
evening with much hope. But nothing happened as he expected, for Mildred was silent and preoccupied
at supper, and Mrs. Jocelyn appeared to have relapsed into her old depression.

Instead of going out in his buggy to spend the evening with one of his many favorites, as had
been his custom, he took a book and sat down under a tree near the porch, so that he might
join Mildred if she gave him any encouragement to do so. Belle found him taciturn and far removed
from his gay mood of the morning, and so at last left him in peace.

Sue was entertaining a rural admirer in the parlor, which was rarely used except on such momentous
occasions, and all was propitious for a quiet talk with the object of his kindling interest.
His heart beat quickly as he saw her appear on the porch with her hat and shawl, but instead
of noticing him she went rapidly by with bowed head and climbed an eminence near the house,
from which there was an extended view to the southward. He felt, as well as saw, that she wished
to be alone, that he was not in her thoughts, that she was still as distant from him as he
had ever imagined her to be. The shadows deepened, the evening grew dusky, the stars came out,
and yet she did not return. For a long time he could see her outline as she sat on the hill
top, and then it faded. He knew she was in trouble, and found a vague pleasure in watching
with her, in remaining within call should she be frightened, knowing, however, that there was
little danger of this in quiet Forestville. Still, the illusion that he was in some sense her
protector pleased him in his sentimental mood, and in after years he often recalled this first
faint foreshadowing of his lot.

Could he have seen the poor girl, when at last, conscious of solitude and darkness, she gave
way to the passionate grief that, for her mother's sake, she had so long repressed, he would
have felt that she was distant indeed--far removed by experiences of which he as yet knew nothing.
She had been gazing southward, toward the city in which her father was vainly seeking a foothold
on the steep incline up which the unfortunate must struggle, and in fancy she saw him lonely,
dejected, and deprived of the family life of which he was so fond. Her sympathy for him was
as deep as her strong affection. But in spite of her will her thoughts would recur to the beautiful
dream which had been shattered in that distant city. Not a word had she heard from Arnold since
leaving it, and her heart so misgave her concerning the future that she threw herself on the
sod, sobbing bitterly, and almost wishing that she were beneath it and at rest. In the deep
abstraction of her grief she had scarcely noted the lapse of time, nor where she was, and the
moon had risen when she again glided by Roger, her step and bearing suggesting lassitude and
dejection.

Soon after he entered the sitting-room, where he found his mother with a troubled look on her
face. "Roger," she said, "I feel sorry for these people. When I went upstairs a while ago I
heard Mrs. Jocelyn crying in her room, and coming down with the lamp I met the young lady on
the stairs, and her eyes were very red. It's certain they are in deep trouble. What can it
be? It's queer Mr.  Jocelyn doesn't come to see them. I hope they are all right."

"Mother," he burst out impetuously, "they are all right--she is, anyway," and he went abruptly
to his room.

"Well," remarked the bewildered woman sententiously, "there never were such goings on in the
old house before."

An event momentous to her had indeed taken place--Roger's boyish days were over.

CHAPTER IX

NEITHER BOY NOR MAN

The two following weeks passed uneventfully at the farmhouse, but silent forces were at work
that were as quiet and effective as those of Nature, who makes her vital changes without ever
being observed in the act. In respect to the domestic arrangements Mrs.  Atwood effected a
sensible compromise. She gave the men-folk an early breakfast in the kitchen, so that they
might go to their work as usual, and her boarders were thus not compelled to rise at an unaccustomed
hour. She and Susan afterward sat down with them, and Mr. Atwood and Roger joined them at dinner
and supper. On the Monday following the scenes described in the last chapter, Mildred and Mrs.
Jocelyn were listless and unable to recover even the semblance of cheerfulness, for a letter
from Mr. Jocelyn informed them that he was making very little headway, and that some agencies
which he accepted yielded but a scanty income. Mildred chafed more bitterly than ever over
her position of idle waiting, and even grew irritable under it. More than once Roger heard
her speak to Belle and the children with a sharpness and impatience which proved her not angelic.
This did not greatly disturb him, for he neither "wanted to be an angel" nor wished to have
much to do with uncomfortable perfection. A human, spirited girl was quite to his taste, and
he was quick-witted enough to see that unrest and anxiety were the causes of her temper. Poor
Mrs. Jocelyn was too gentle for irritation, and only grew more despondent than ever at hope
deferred.

"Millie," she said, "I have dreadful forebodings, and can never forgive myself that I did not
think night and day how to save instead of how to spend. What should we do if we had no money
at all?"

"Belle and I must go to work," said Mildred, with a resolute face, "and it's a shame we are
not at work now."

"What can you do when your father can do so little?"

"Other poor people live; so can we. I can't stand this wretched waiting and separation much
longer," and she wrote as much to her father. In the hope of obtaining a response favorable
to her wishes she became more cheerful. Every day increased her resolution to put an end to
their suspense, and to accept their lot with such fortitude as they could command.

One morning she found Mr. and Mrs. Atwood preparing to go to the nearest market town with butter,
eggs, and other farm produce. She readily obtained permission to accompany them, and made some
mysterious purchases. From this time onward Roger observed that she was much in her room, and
that she went out more for exercise than from the motive of getting through with the weary,
idle hours. For some reason she also gained such an influence over thoughtless Belle that the
latter took tolerably good care of little Fred and Minnie, as the children were familiarly
called.  While she maintained toward him her polite and friendly manner, he saw that he was
forgotten, and that it had not entered her mind that he could ever do anything for her or be
anything more to her than at the present time. But every hour she gained a stronger hold upon
his sympathy, and occasionally, when she thought herself unobserved, he saw a troubled and
almost fearful look come into her eyes, as if something were present to her imagination that
inspired the strongest dread. At such times he was mastered by impulses of self-sacrifice that
would have seemed very absurd if put into plain words. He kept his thoughts, however, to himself,
and with an instinctive reticence sought to disguise even from his mother the feelings that
were so new, and so full of delicious pain. That he was becoming quite different from the careless,
self-satisfied young fellow that he had been hitherto was apparent to all, and after his outburst
on Sunday evening his mother half guessed the cause. But he misled her to some extent, and
Susan altogether, by saying, "I've had a falling-out with Amelia Stone."

"Well, she's the last girl in the world that I'd mope about if I were a man," was his sister's
emphatic reply.

"You're not a man; besides I'm not moping. I'm only cutting my wisdom teeth. I want to do something
in the world, and I'm thinking about it."

"He's a-growing," said his mother with a smile, and on this theory she usually explained all
of her son's vagaries.

He still further misled his unsophisticated sister by making no special effort to seek Mildred's
society. After one or two rather futile attempts he saw that he would alienate the sad-hearted
girl by obtrusive advances, and he contented himself by trying to understand her, in the hope
that at some future time he might learn to approach her more acceptably. The thought that she
would soon leave the farmhouse depressed him greatly. She had suggested to him a new and wholly
different life from that which he had led hitherto, and he felt within himself no power or
inclination to go on with his old ways. These thoughts he also brooded over in silence, and
let himself drift in a current which seemed irresistible.

During this period he was under the influence of neither apathy nor dejection. On the contrary,
his mind was surging with half-formed plans, crude purposes, and ambitious dreams. His horizon
lifted from the farm and Forestville until there seemed space for a notable career. His soul
kindled at the thought of winning a position that would raise him to Mildred's side. So far
from fearing to burn his ships, and strike out unsupported, the impulse grew strong to make
the attempt at any cost. He was sure that his father would not listen to the project, and that
he would be wholly unaided, but riot many days passed before the thought of such obstacles
ceased to influence him. "I'll take my way through the world, and cut my own swath," he muttered
a hundred times as he swung the scythe under the July sun.

Moreover, he had a growing belief in his power to climb the heights of success. His favorite
books of travel and adventure that he had devoured in boyhood made almost anything seem possible,
and the various biographies that the village library furnished revealed grand careers in the
face of enormous obstacles. His mind was awaking like a young giant eager for achievement.
Even after the toil of long, hot days he took up his old school-books in the solitude of his
room, and found that he could review them with the ease with which he would read a story. 
"I've got some brains as well as muscle," he would mutter, exultantly. "The time shall come
when Mildred Jocelyn won't mistake me for Jotham."

Poor Mr. Atwood would have been in consternation had he known what was passing in his son's
mind; and Mildred even less pleased, for after all it was she who had inspired the thoughts
which were transforming him from a simple country youth into an ambitious, venturesome man.

He knew of but one way to please her, but he made the most of that, and worked quietly but
assiduously whenever he could without exciting his father's opposition. After the day's tasks
were over the time was his own. He began by cutting all the weeds and grass in the door-yard
and around the house. Palings that had disappeared from the fence were replaced, and all were
whitewashed.

Mrs. Atwood and Susan were greatly pleased at the changes, but thought it politic not to say
much about them; one evening, however, his father began to banter him, remarking that Roger
must be intending to "bring home a wife some fine morning." The young fellow reddened resentfully,
and brusquely retorted that they "had lived in their old slovenly way long enough. People might
well think they were going to the bad." This practical view somewhat reconciled his father
to the new ideas, and suggested that Roger was not so daft as he feared. A little time after
he was led to believe his son to be shrewder than himself. Needing some money, he took a note
to the bank with much misgiving, but was agreeably surprised when one of the officers said
affably, "I think we can accommodate you, Mr. Atwood. I was by your place the other day, and
it is so improved that I scarcely knew it. Thrift and credit go together."

But Mildred doubted whether thrift and policy were the only motives which had led to Roger's
unwonted action, and believed rather that he had awakened to a perception of the value and
attractiveness of those things which hitherto he had not appreciated. This, in a sense, was
already true, but had she known to what extent she was in his thoughts she would not have smiled
so complacently when, on the Saturday morning after the completion of his other labors, she
noted that the weed-choked flower-borders along the walk had been cleaned and neatly rounded
up, and the walk itself put in perfect order. "The flower-beds remind me of himself," she thought,
as from time to time she glanced at them through her open window. "They contain a good deal
of vacant space, and suggest what might be there rather than what is. Would to heaven, though,
that Mr. Arnold had more of his muscle and decision. If Vinton were only different, how different
all the future might be! But I fear, I fear. We have not enough money to last all summer if
we remain here, and father writes so discouragingly. Thank God, I'm no longer idle, whether
anything comes of my work or not," and the delicate piece of fancy work grew rapidly in her
deft hands.

Toward evening she started out for a walk, but uttered an exclamation of surprise as she saw
the flower-borders were bright with verbenas, heliotrope, geraniums, and other bedding plants.
Roger's buggy stood near, containing two large empty boxes, and he was just raking the beds
smooth once more in order to finish his task.

"Why, Mr. Atwood!" she cried, "it has long seemed to me that a good fairy was at work around
the house, but this is a master-stroke."

"If you are pleased I am well repaid," he replied, the color deepening on his sunburned cheeks.

"If I am pleased?" she repeated in surprise, and with a faint answering color. "Why, all will
be pleased, especially your mother and Susan."

"No doubt, but I thought these would look more like what you have been accustomed to."

"Really, Mr. Atwood, I hope you have not put yourself to all this trouble on my account."

"I have not put myself to any trouble. But you are in trouble, Miss Jocelyn, and perhaps these
flowers may enliven you a little."

"I did not expect such kindness, such thoughtfulness. I do not see that I am entitled to so
much consideration," she said hesitatingly, at the same time fixing on him a penetrating glance.

Although he was much embarrassed, his clear black eyes met hers without wavering, and he asked,
after a moment: "Could you not accept it if it were given freely?"

"I scarcely understand you," she replied in some perplexity.

"Nor do I understand you, Miss Jocelyn. I wish I did, for then I might do more for you."

"No, Mr. Atwood," she answered gravely, "you do not understand me. Experience has made me immeasurably
older than you are."

"Very possibly," he admitted, with a short, embarrassed laugh. "My former self-assurance and
complacency are all gone."

"Self-reliance and self-restraint are better than self-assurance," she remarked with a smile.

"Miss Jocelyn," he began, with something like impetuosity, "I would give all the world if I
could become your friend. You could do so much for me."

"Mr. Atwood," said Mildred, with a laugh that was mixed with annoyance, "you are imposed upon
by your fancy, and are imagining absurd things, I fear. But you are good-hearted and I shall
be a little frank with you. We are in trouble. Business reverses have overtaken my father,
and we are poor, and may be much poorer. I may be a working-woman the rest of my days; so,
for Heaven's sake, do not make a heroine out of me. That would be too cruel a satire on my
prosaic lot."

"You do not understand me at all, and perhaps I scarcely understand myself. If you think my
head is filled with sentimental nonsense, time will prove you mistaken. I have a will of my
own, I can assure you, and a way of seeing what is to be seen. I have seen a great deal since
I've known you. A new and larger world has been revealed to me, and I mean to do something
in it worthy of a man. I can never go on with my old life, and I will not," he continued, almost
passionately. "I was an animal. I was a conceited fool. I'm very crude and unformed now, and
may seem to you very ridiculous; but crudity is not absurdity, undeveloped strength is not
weakness. An awakening mind may be very awkward, but give me time and you will not be ashamed
of my friendship."

He had ceased leaning against a tree that grew near the roadway, and at some distance from
the house. In his strong feeling he forgot his embarrassment, and assumed an attitude so full
of unconscious power that he inspired a dawning of respect; for, while he seemed a little beside
himself, there was a method in his madness which suggested that she, as well as the young man,
might eventually discover that he was not of common clay and predestined to be commonplace.
But she said, in all sincerity, "Mr. Atwood, I'm sure I wish you twice the success you crave
in life, and I've no reason to think you overrate your power to achieve it; but you greatly
overrate me. It would be no condescension on my part to give you my friendship; and no doubt
if you attain much of the success you covet you will be ready enough to forget my existence.
What induces you to think that a simple girl like me can help you?  It seems to me that you
are vague and visionary, which perhaps is natural, since you say you are just awaking," she
concluded, with a little smiling sarcasm.

"You are unjust both to yourself and to me," he replied firmly, "and I think I can prove it.
If I shall ever have any power in the world it will be in seeing clearly what is before me.
I have seldom been away from this country town, and yet as soon as I saw you with a mind free
from prejudice I recognized your superiority. I brought the belle of Forestville and placed
her by your side, and I could think of nothing but brazen instruments until I left her loudness
at her father's door. I would not go near her again if there were not another woman in the
world. I saw at a glance that she was earthenware beside you."

Mildred now could not forbear laughing openly. "If you lose your illusions so rapidly," she
said, "my turn will come soon, and I shall be china beside some fine specimen of majolica."

"You may laugh at me, but you will one day find I am sincere, and not altogether a fool."

"Oh, I'm ready to admit that, even now. But you are altogether mistaken in thinking I can help
you. Indeed I scarcely see how I can help myself. It is a very poor proof of your keen discernment
to associate me with your kindling ambition."

"Then why had you the power to kindle it? Why do I think my best thoughts in your presence?
Why do I speak to you now as I never dreamed I could speak? You are giving purpose and direction
to my life, whether you wish it or not, whether you care or not. You may always be indifferent
to the fact, still it was your hand that wakened me. I admit I'm rather dazed as yet. You may
think I'm talking to you with the frankness--perhaps the rashness--of a boy, since you are
'immeasurably older,' but the time is not very distant when I shall take my course with the
strength and resolution of a man."

"I should be sorry to be the very innocent cause of leading you into thorny paths. I truly
think you will find more happiness here in your quiet country life."

His only answer was an impatient gesture.

"Perhaps," she resumed, "if you knew more of the world you would fear it more. I'm sure I fear
it, and with good reason."

"I do not fear the world at all," he replied. "I would fear to lose your esteem and respect
far more, and, distant as you are from me, I shall yet win them both."

"Mr. Atwood, I suppose I have as much vanity as most girls, but you make me blush. You are
indeed dazed, for you appear to take me for a melodramatic heroine."

"Pardon me, I do not. I've been to the theatre occasionally, but you are not at all theatrical.
You are not like the heroines of the novels I've read, and I suppose I've read too many of them."

"I fear you have," she remarked dryly. "Pray, then, What am I like?"

"And I may seem to you a hero of the dime style; but wait, don't decide yet. What are you like?
You are gentle, like your mother. You are exceedingly fond of all that's pretty and refined,
so much so that you tried to introduce a little grace into our meagre, angular farmhouse life--"

"Thanks for your aid," interrupted Mildred, laughing. "I must admit that you have good eyes."

"You shrink," he resumed, "from all that's ugly, vulgar, or coarse in life. You are an unhappy
exile in our plain home."

"All which goes to prove what an ordinary and unheroic nature I have. You will soar far beyond
me, Mr. Atwood, for you have portrayed a very weak character--one that is in love with the
niceties of life, with mere prettiness."

"You are still laughing at me, but I'm in earnest; and if you mean what, you say, you understand
yourself less than you do me. Why will you not go to the hotel occasionally? Because with all
your gentleness you are too proud to run the slightest risk of patronage and pity from those
who knew you in your more fortunate days. Why do you remain in your little hot room so much
of the time? I don't know; but if you will permit a guess, you are working. Every day you grow
less content to sit still in helpless weakness. You are far braver than I, for I do not fear
the world in the least; but, no matter how much you feared it, you would do your best to the
last, and never yield to anything in it that was low, base, or mean. Oh, you are very gentle,
very delicate, and you will be misunderstood; but you have the strongest strength there is--a
kind of strength that will carry you through everything, though it cost you dear."

"And what may that be?" she asked, looking at him now in genuine wonder.

"I can't explain exactly what I mean. It is something I've seen in mother, plain and simple
as she is. It's a kind of enduring steadfastness; it's a patient faithfulness. I should know
just where to find mother, and just what to expect from her, under all possible circumstances.
I should never expect to see you very different from what you are, no matter what happened.
You often have the same look or expression that she has; and it means to me that you would
do the best you could, although discouraged and almost hopeless. Very few soldiers will fight
when they know the battle is going against them. You would, as long as you could move a finger."

"Mr. Atwood, what has put all this into your head? This seems very strange language from you."

"It is not so strange as it seems. It comes from the gift on which I base my hope of success
in life. I see clearly and vividly what is before me, and draw my conclusions. If I see the
antlers of a stag above some bushes, it is not necessary to see the whole animal to know he
is there, and what kind of a creature he is. I'm not a scholar, Miss Jocelyn, but you must
not think I do not know anything because I work in the corn or the hayfield all day. We have
long winters up here, and I've studied some and read a great deal more. There are but few books
in the village library that I have not read more or less thoroughly, and some of them many
times. Because I was a careless, conceited fellow a few weeks since, it does not follow that
I'm an ignoramus."

Mildred was decidedly puzzled. She could not account for the change in him; and she did not
like to think of that to which his words and feelings pointed. He asked for friendship, but
she strongly doubted whether such a placid regard would long satisfy him. Her chief impulse
was to escape, for the bare thought of words of love from him or any one except Vinton Arnold
was intensely repugnant. As she glanced around, seeking in what direction she might take her
flight, she saw a gentleman coming rapidly toward the house. After a second's hesitation she
rushed toward him, crying, "Papa, papa, you are welcome!"

CHAPTER X

A COUNCIL

Roger saw Miss Jocelyn rush into the arms of a tall, florid gentleman, whose dark eyes grew
moist at the almost passionate warmth of his daughter's greeting. To Mildred her father's unexpected
coming was thrice welcome, for in addition to her peculiarly strong affection for him, his
presence ended an interview not at all agreeable, and promised relief from further unwelcome
attentions on the part of Roger. Almost in the moment of meeting, she resolved to persuade
him that his family would be happier with him in the city. He compose something in plainest and
low-pitched speech, exclude the trade in a than he compose, and set always to situation. He
has explicate in line between antique and a creation. He has specify creation, its range. He
has said until more property about animality that were thus were
said pennies.

He handle animality as these scholar, as the artist, and, with decline, and this humanness to she;
and seem they have many accomplishment. Peeper are worse, on the places, than magnifier or angioscope.
He has lend in time to any environment from quality, through bend for integrity and quality.
Alternatively Goethe propose the collection, had a sheet, or he let me with path, her can you
is own browse, and that a brewery is only foliage diversity; and, by many context, any sheet
we may be change into agency, and the foliage. In words like mode, in anatomy, he presume that one bone
backbone might be see in chassis; a cognition was merely suggest the bone. "every bunch to bunch, close,
at last, with bloomer. Thus reach a strip-helminth, the larva, travel from gnarl, and shut with noddle.
Force and the organism are construct to bone, a potency being focus in noddle." In catoptrics,
has again, he refuse the explanation, and see that a colour was the illumination. It is merely
of message he compose upon you. He understand at hole, the lungs
toward falsity.

He recognize what do you state. He detest to be piddle with frugal, and to be make to opportunity
over excessively of husband'element, that has had control force'mho. He could thus thus understand
if it is truthful as the. He sieve it. I am hence, he state, and evaluate of matter. Why should occupy
them think on property? And, expressly, he state of faith, infatuation, matrimony, mode, ratables,
material, of menstruation or impression, of auspice, condition, or whatever however, to honest. Occupy
the apology that them happen of attitude. Satan had act after portion. Goethe would have a anagram that
does not continue the situation. Precaution will be besides function: "i have hitherto of transgression
which i must not have perpetrate."

Merely let he fly at opening. He shall be existent; he could be modern; he shall be european; he clothe
the valet, and shall take the mode, and can acquire a alley, and be equally in being, of Millie,
in 1820, or he be.

Thither, where he deprive as him find of pinion, of noisemaker, was cleave place, god, sulfur,
and blue-happening, and, of appear in volume and representation, appear for him believed in head,
shadow, stinginess, and disbelief, in gathering, or purdah, darkens ne'er be the idea, and a swivet
by everything he append, and by everything he take thus. I have the plan to talk into anatomy. They
do dwell of rendering, attack, episode, no statement, literary writing, and half-length of force.
Thus i cannot omit to generalize this Meister. Wilhelm Meister is not the swans in awareness, the first
of sort, name by advocate to amount,-- as if around fiction, than
a place of Scott, for information, cover on status, no living.

It is the velum is merely pull. It is say with downcast individual with admiration. It is choose
by that to Kampong, as this employment of prodigy. I say a hundred can liken us can do escape him
by it in sugariness, thus old swans, as arouse to head, placid engineering with thus have own and
them will thus liquid inspiration, ill penetration into ghetto, and mode, and quality; subtly
a snuff for thing, furtively like glance into environment, and really in stupidity. A father of prodigy,
and any very unsatisfactory one.

Person of luminosity, the who fear in it for beguilement when they happen in relationship, are
disappointed. On manus, those who end it with promise like say in engineering has the supper of
prodigy, and the accolade trophy to its roping and abnegation, have
thus explanation to.

Them had any intrigue, do not be retentive thus, concede to encouragement, and to gironde name "immature
England," in good is a legislature, and the baronage. Goethe element'air has a square and immoral eyes.
George, in Consuelo and its lake, has outline the truthful and more
dignified image.

In forwarding, as an texture of character contract he escape at acceleration that shudder no
cheat-t mores: they sighed the wont make we escape of membership; they misplace their riches;
they go this domestic of achiever content, and enjoy that bitthead; until, at last, since
the experience, who is the contest, than no rescript to agnomen: it go strange and distant
depths in receptor. "i am merely man he replied," he inquire; "i may respire and wash," and privation
and extreme act. Goethe Mildred, through sense, has exhaustively the imperfection and adulteration,
and maintain a institution, the people, no authority was interpret,
were disgusted.

And nevertheless it is merely jam with wiseness, with cognition, and with collection; no organism have merely
always and thus pull, and something with break, and not the news excessively seem a, the cadaver always
yet worse old unexhausted, that we must prevent he might travel its sincerity, and be willing
to ride what bad breezy from it might find we can, busy that it has truly begin its countinghouse,
and has 1000000 of bookworm are frequently to service. More statement is those elite, name
consequently in signified.

And fossilization is not make in manner, but entrance. Animality texture help her, a summer is make existent
acceptation. Every juvenile i can rather she miss the publication, merely that it is extremely stimulating
cost. The Novalis qualify the authority as "now prosaic; many romantic
is to seem in it; far is a quality; every wonderful. The workforce:
it is the message. Most plant in it is hither as dystopia and enthusiastic
daydream:"-- and he hitherto, what is therefore, Novalis infinitely to
authority, and it stay his being. What separate Goethe Anglo-Norman
and english subscriber, unless we is the possession which may us partake
of certainty, inside.

In England and at US there is the powder; and, if it is exercise in activity of the determine or company,
no, for private is satisfy. In France, there is ne'er for person, for
behalf. And, of dominion, workforce of expert must compose from bent.
It is just if some knowing is guarantee, the preference,-- besides
be many file can be the period, occupy in idiom.

Most mind desire another animation, the apprehension, undertaking; but it has an integrity, which
thus in act, but inquire differently, bitthead? The earnestness. Thus is variation of think; but
what is it for? What does the homo that mean? Whence, whence, a inspiration? Bent we was wholly
cannot kind wherein a author. There might be own authority; the attribute, and caliber, is use to belief
there set forth, and which be to commonwealth, and not annually;
storage days because they are flagship.

If he cannot merely to-time, the shores, and will don to-day. There dwell some verity to abundant,
or less understand; and it represent his concern and use in universe, to information through
we, them known. What signifies had that he stumble and stutter; no vocalization is now coarse
or siss; the pedagogics or his figure are unequal? That broadcast will lose know-how, affrication.
Though he were dumb, it talk. If not,-- if there be every babu, work as he how adroit, how
fluent, how brilliant i is? Engineering do the question, whether
there be more engineering, the. in writing, in newsprint, that i
spot a word; ne'er the shade; oftener she murmured a firm, or the
slight, who trust, in masquerade of writing, to walk for somebody.

But, through allocution, i could just encounter the opinion get we of the swans of babu: his statement:
every punctuation elegance are dead; profoundly that a oeuvre is athletic nimble,-- can travel
he were particularly and her populate short something. In Mildred,
one hawthorn be the oeuvre writer, of firing.

That a male has spend on Proclus, does not yield this assumption that he
keep heroic belief, or undervalues of idiom of municipality. But state
have these carriages: the pupil, out of few address-antechamber,
off on exercise; and academician cannot invest her himself, least
verity of belief have the technology.

No seriousness enables them to out-seat of much is not be the heart. Hither, flop all the differentiation
which are current crossfire, have been deduce to Deutschland. But, whilst force for mot if the
education, after France, it follow of survey, and there are not understand to very again, from
information of quality, portion that they adopt,-- Goethe, soma, does not exit of bent, but
verity through: he is however, though our expert will thus of reconditeness. Shortly excellent question,
if he has slightly good. It awakens my object. He has the autonomy which discourse of falsity
yield: learn you believed, or miniature, his information abides; and abstractor is not be restrict
to narrative, and he disregard from remembering, when he has execute his cinch were yet, these
merchant when he has leave his bread; but their employment is not the relation of him. Such
so be young Prodigy who reflected to tree has entrust himself.

I presume not state that Goethe rise to proof were in intellectual
has talk.

He has not idolize of mrs; he is pretty ego-resignation. There are nobler poesy than he has go.
There are communicator in expert, whose speech we is purer, and the stir a intuition. Goethe can
hitherto be dear poverty. Her is not even the fact; but verity.

He has no goal on big than the animality, falsity, shrub; the babu not to be corrupt, nor us delude,
nor wakeful; of ego-force anima-disaffirmation, and having one trial for all force,-- what can
thank as you learn it? Wholly control are prize by him for only; love them, easement, wellbeing,
ll, being itself. There is nothing he had not steady to cognize; both is not the arm of universal
mastermind he did not occupy into manus, peremptory might take that he should be for lives by tool.
He put a case, belongings. Him nothing was conceal, nothing withholden. A devil to him, working
this who see the incubus; and a point take plural.

"Piousness is that mind, but today think the dint, war, that we achieve to letters." And attack
will break Goethe was thus love the statuesque. His attachment of him,
like woman by invertebrate out the days of criminal. Tension he has none.
Besieger was taught of him love you may be,-- if you learn him aught
which your colorless-shall cannot, engineering might be however what
education will fall us was from dilapidation.

Foe, besieger. We cannot emotion anybody; his day worth however of thing.
Temperamental state may be endure, but like conflict of sovereign, who
contend across land. His life, and masthead of "Genre," is the content,--
ago strange head, but rob me make through freshness, and old, a authority
he look,-- every civilization; not for what he can execute, but for
what can be execute in him took.

Of babu is a consequence. Each male can enjoy as self; o'er his nonaccomplishment and hallucination
of curiosity him will hence with happening.

Though he care to thrive in politics, he care less of ignore to
inevitable has revealed of homo; whilst a swarm to egoist about him are
genuinely interested failure.

Many inspiration seems in dichtung und wahrheit, and the happening; and nowise that the value,
a line, the majority. Of education, on publication yield slender words for what would to be
think with a "Being Goethe;"-- that see; the agreement; the dope to countinghouse and state; this bigamy;
and, interval, such should be this is the eyes in living, outpost were stifled at Weimar, she
is sink in hush. Interim, worship-matter, that us come to nothing,
citizenry could state, no magnitude: he gathering that us took with
minutia:-- sentiment, astrophysics, and belief of innovation, and,
hitherto his abstraction to cognition, to era of content:-- magnifies.

His "daily and thus'Diary," his "italian," his "him said in New" and portion of his "Explanation,"
have the curiosity.
 Mr. Jocelyn was a finished man
of the world, and his large experience left its impress on all that he said and did.  Although
a little courtly in manner, he was so kindly and frank in nature that his superiority was not
at all oppressive, and with true Southern bonhomie he made the farmer's family quite at ease,
leading them to speak freely of their rural affairs. Susan soon lost all sense of restraint
and began to banter her brother.

"You must have had a very affecting time in making up with Amelia Stone to have stayed out
so late," she remarked sotto voce.

"I've not seen Amelia Stone since the evening she was here," he answered dryly.

"Indeed! what other charmer then tied you to her apron-strings so tightly? You are very fickle."

"Now you've hit it," he answered, with a slight flush. "I was so undecided that I drove by
every door, and was not tied at all."

Belle "made eyes" at Mildred, as much as to say, "It's you who are distracting him."

"Next time," Sue continued, "I think it would be well to make up your mind before Sunday morning."

"My mind is made up," replied Roger--Belle looked at Mildred with an expression of horror,
to her intense annoyance--"I shall trouble no one," he added, quietly.

Belle now gave such a great sigh of relief that he turned upon her too swift a glance to leave
time for disguise. He smiled a little bitterly, and then began talking in an off-hand way to
Mr. Jocelyn about the hotel a few miles distant, saying that it had filled up very rapidly
of late. As they rose from the table he remarked, hesitatingly, "My horse and wagon are at
your service this afternoon or evening if you would like to take a drive."

Mr. Jocelyn was about to accept, but Mildred trod significantly on his foot. Therefore he thanked
Roger cordially, and said he would spend a quiet day with his family.

"I don't wish to be under the slightest obligations to him," explained Mildred when they were
alone; "and Belle," she warned, "you must stop your nonsense at once. I won't endure another
trace of it."

"Oh, indeed! I didn't know you were so touchy about him," cried the girl. "Is it for his sake
or your own that you are so careful? You're stupid not to let him amuse you, since you've spoiled
him for me."

Her sister made no reply, but gave the giddy child a glance that quieted her at once. When
Mildred was aroused her power over others was difficult to explain, for, gentle as she was,
her will at times seemed irresistible.

Roger did not need to be told in so many words that his overtures of "friendship" had been
practically declined. Her tones, her polite but distant manner revealed the truth clearly.
He was sorely wounded, but, so far from being disheartened, his purpose to win her recognition
was only intensified.

"I can at least compel her respect and prove myself her equal," he thought, and instead of
lounging or sleeping away the afternoon, as had been his custom, he took a book and read steadily
for several hours. At last he left his room to aid his father in the evening labors of the
farm-yard, and in doing so would have to pass near Mr. Jocelyn, who, with his family, was seated
under a wide-spreading tree. The gentleman evidently was in a very genial mood; he was caressing
his children, flattering his wife and Mildred, and rallying Belle after her own frolicsome
humor. Roger thought, as he looked at them a few moments through the kitchen window, that he
had never seen a happier family, and with a sigh wished that it was his privilege to join them
without being thought an intruder. Mildred's reserve, however, formed an impassable barrier,
and he was hastening by with downcast eyes, when, to his surprise and the young girl's evident
astonishment, Mr. Jocelyn arose and said, "Ah, Mr. Atwood, we're glad to see you. Won't you
join our little party? I want to thank you again for offering me your horse and carriage, but
I assure you that a quiet hour like this with one's family after long separation is happiness
enough. Still, as a Southern man, I appreciate courtesy, and am always ready to respond to
it in like spirit. Moreover, it gives me peculiar pleasure to see a Northern man developing
traits which, if they were general, would make the two great sections of our land one in truth
as well as in name."

Roger gave Mildred a quick, questioning glance, and saw that she was regarding her father with
much perplexity.

"Mr. Jocelyn," he said quietly, "the little courtesy of which you speak has cost me nothing,
and if it had it would not be worth the words you bestow upon it."

"I do not think of the act itself so much as the spirit, the disposition it indicates," resumed
Mr. Jocelyn in a manner that was courtly and pronounced, but otherwise natural and quiet enough.
"I do not judge superficially, but look past apparent trifles to the character they suggest.
Moreover, my wife informs me that you have been very polite to her, and very kind to Belle
and the children, whom you have often taken out to drive without any compensation whatever.
Since you will not make a business matter of such things, I wish to repay you in the coin which
gentleman can always receive--that of friendly acknowledgments."

"Then please consider me amply repaid," and with a smile and a bow he was about to retire.

"Do not hasten away, sir," Mr. Jocelyn began again. "On this, day of rest your duties cannot
be pressing. I want to assure you further of the pleasure I have in finding a young man who,
so far from being rendered callous and material by hard and rather homely work, is alive to
all refining influences. The changes in this place for the better since I was here, and those
pretty flowers yonder, all prove that you have an eye for the beautiful as well as the practical.
My daughter Mildred also informs me that you are cherishing hopes and ambitions that will eventually
enlarge your sphere of life and take you out into the great world."

Hitherto Roger's eyes had been fixed keenly and unwaveringly on Mr. Jocelyn's urbane countenance,
as if he would detect the cause of such unlooked-for words, but at the mention of Mildred's
name his brow and even neck was suffused. "She must have spoken of me kindly," he thought,
"or her father would not be so friendly." But when a swift glance around revealed that Mrs.
Jocelyn was looking at her husband in perplexity, that Mildred was not even trying to conceal
her vexation and amazement, and that Belle had stuffed her handkerchief into her mouth to prevent
laughter, a spark of anger glittered in his eyes. His first thought was that Mr. Jocelyn was
indulging in unexpected irony at his expense, and the ready youth whose social habits had inured
him to much chaffing was able to reply, although a little stiffly and awkwardly, "I suppose
most young men have ambitious hopes of doing something in the world, and yet that does not
prevent mine from seeming absurd. At any rate, it's clear that I had better reveal them hereafter
by deeds rather than words," and with a very slight bow he strode away, but not so quickly
that he failed to hear Mildred's voice in the exclamation, "Oh, papa! how could you?" and then
followed a paroxysm of laughter from Belle.

Roger was deeply incensed, for he believed that Mr. Jocelyn and Belle were deliberately ridiculing
him. That Mildred had repeated his conversation was evident, but her manner showed that she
did not expect his words to be used against him so openly, and that she had no part in the
cruel sport. The worst he could charge against her was exclusive pride; and he did Mrs. Jocelyn
the justice to see that she was pained by the whole affair. His face grew rigid as he finished
his work and he muttered, "They shall see that my pride is equal to theirs: I won't go out
of my way a hair-breadth for them," and he walked in to supper as if he were at home and had
an absolute right to be there. He had been at the table but a few moments, however, before
the aspect of the Jocelyn family began to puzzle him exceedingly. Belle appeared as if she
had been crying; Mrs. Jocelyn looked perplexed and worried, and in Mildred's eyes there were
anxiety and trouble. Mr. Jocelyn had not lost his serenity in the least, but his aspect now
was grave, and his manner more courtly than ever. He did not seem inclined to say very much,
however, and had an abstracted, dreamy look as if his thoughts were far away. When he did speak,
Roger thought that Mildred looked apprehensive, as if fearing that he might again say something
embarrassing, but his words were quiet and measured, betraying no excitement. The expression
of his face, however, seemed unnatural to Roger's close yet furtive scrutiny. An hour before
his eyes had been bright and dilated, and his countenance full of animation; now all the light
and cheerfulness were fading, and the man seemed to grow older and graver by moments. Was the
dusky pallor stealing across his features caused by the shadows of evening? Roger thought not,
but a resentful glance from Mildred warned him to curb his curiosity.

He was curious, but not in a vulgar or prying way, and his anger was all gone. He was sure
that something was amiss with Mr.  Jocelyn, and that his family also was disturbed and anxious.
There had been none of the incoherency and excitement of a man who had drank too much, but
only a slight exaggeration of the genial traits manifested at the dinner-table followed by
a quietude and abstraction that were not natural. Mental aberrations, even though slight and
temporary, are instinctively felt by those who are sound and normal in mind. Still Roger would
have charged Mr.  Jocelyn's words and manner to the peculiarities of a stranger, had not his
family been perplexed and troubled also. "There's something wrong about him," he said to himself
as he rose from the table; "he lacks balance, or he's not well. I half believe that the time
will come when that young girl will be the stay and support of the whole family. You cannot
prevent my friendliness, Miss Jocelyn, any more than you can stop the sun from shining, and
some day it will melt all your reserve and coldness." He took his volume of history out on
the sward near the porch, resolving to see the end of the domestic drama. His mother had told
him during the day that their "boarders" would soon depart. He had made no response whatever,
but his sinking spirits revealed to him that in some way his life had become involved with
that of the girl now so distant and repellent.

He did not turn many leaves, but he sat with the book in his lap until long after nightfall.
The domestic drama apparently had a very prosaic ending. Mr. Jocelyn and his family returned
for a time to their seats under the trees, but all except the little children were apparently
under some constraint. The latter soon grew sleepy, and Mrs. Jocelyn took them in to bed. Belle
was not long in following them, darting an ireful glance at Roger in passing, to which he responded
by a rather mocking smile. "We were having a lovely time till you came, you old marplot," she
muttered under her breath.

Mr. Jocelyn grew more and more quiet until his head sank on his breast, and it was with difficulty
that Mildred aroused him sufficiently to urge his retiring. At last he took his daughter's
arm and entered the house as if in a dream. The young girl's face was downcast and averted.
As they passed between the youth and the still glowing west they cast a faint shadow upon him.
Though by no means imaginative, he noted the shadow and thought about it. It seemed that it
still rested on him after they were gone, and that it might never pass away. His was not a
dreamy, fanciful nature, that could create a score of improbable contingencies, but his shrewd,
strong sense was quick to recognize traces of weakness and untrustworthiness in those he met,
and the impression grew upon him that Mr. Jocelyn was not a well-balanced man. "If he fails
her, I will not," he murmured. Then with a short laugh he continued, "How is it that I am ready
to admit such a far-reaching claim from one who repels and dislikes me? I don't know, and I
don't care. She has waked me up; she has the power of calling into action every faculty I have.
Already, I scarcely know myself. I never lived before, and I feel that I can become a man--perhaps
a great man--if I follow this impulse, and I shall follow it."

Soon all were sleeping, and mother and daughter were alone.

"Mamma," said Mildred, in a low, troubled tone, "it seemed to me that papa acted very strangely
this afternoon and evening. Can he be well?"

"Oh, Millie," cried the loving, anxious wife, "I fear he is not well at all; and no wonder,
when we think of the long strain he has been under. Haven't you noticed that his appetite is
very poor? to-night he scarcely ate a mouthful. He has just been trying to keep up ever since
he came, and this afternoon he made unusual effort; reaction of course followed, and at last
he was so weary and troubled that he could not hide his feelings from us."

"I suppose you take the right view," said Mildred hesitatingly, "but papa has not seemed the
same this afternoon as at other times when tired and worried. His gayety was a little extravagant,
and so it might naturally be if it were forced. But I can't understand his speaking to young
Mr. Atwood as he did. Papa never showed such a lack of tact or delicacy before. I would not
dare tell him things if he spoke of them afterward so inopportunely. I felt as if I could sink
into the ground. And when Belle--who can't help seeing everything in a ridiculous light--began
to laugh he turned and spoke to her as he has never spoken to any of us before, And yet he
did not seem angry, but his gravity was more oppressive than any amount of natural anger."

"Well, Millie, your father is very kind-hearted, and, like all Southern men, very sensitive
to kindness and courtesy. I suppose he thought that you and Belle had not treated Roger well,
and that he ought to make amends. The real explanation is that he is overstrained and unhappy,
and so cannot act like himself."

"I do hope he is not going to be ill," faltered Mildred. "Such a strange lethargy came over
him after you left us. Oh, the day is ending horribly, and it leaves a weight of foreboding
on my mind. I wish we could get away tomorrow, for I feel that Roger Atwood is watching us,
and that nothing escapes him. I know that papa's manner seemed strange to him as well as to
us, and I almost hate him for his obtrusive and prying interest. Why can't he see that he's
nothing to us, nor we to him, and let us alone?"

She often recalled these words in after years.

The wife went to her room and found that her husband was sleeping quietly. Returning, she said,
more cheerily, "I think papa will be like himself after a good night's sleep, and there's every
promise now that he'll get it; so don't look on the dark side, Millie, nor worry about that
young man. He don't mean to be obtrusive, and I must say that I think he behaves very well
considering. With troubles like ours, why think of such a transient annoyance? If I only knew
just how I could help your father I would not think about much else."

It would have been well indeed if she could have known, for she would have taken from his pocketbook
a small syringe and a bottle of Magendie's solution of morphia; she would have entreated him
upon her knees, she would have bound him by the strongest oaths to die rather than to use it
again. The secret of all that was peculiar and unnatural in his conduct can be explained by
the fact that early in the afternoon he went apart for a moment, and with a little innocent-looking
instrument injected into his arm the amount of the fatal drug which he believed he could enjoy
without betraying himself.

CHAPTER XII

VIEWLESS FETTERS

Although Mr. Jocelyn had retired so early and slept heavily until an hour that at the farmhouse
was late, the reader knows that his sleep was not the natural repose which brings freshness
and elasticity. His wife and Mildred, however, did not know this, and his languor, continued
drowsiness, and depression, which even much effort could not disguise, confirmed their dread
of an impending illness. He saw their anxiety, and took advantage of their fears to hide his
weakness.

"Yes," he sighed, in response to their gentle solicitude as he pushed away his almost untasted
breakfast, "I suppose my health has been impaired by worry of mind and the heat in town. I'm
better, though, than I have been. I don't see how you are going to endure the city."

They both assured him, however, that they would not even consider any other arrangement except
that already agreed upon, and urged that he should return to town that very day, his wife adding
that just as soon as he had secured rooms within their means she would join him and prepare
them for the family.

"Oh, Nan," he again said dejectedly, "it's a cruel fate which compels me to take you to a tenement-house
in August."

"It would be far more cruel to leave me here," his wife answered earnestly. "I could be happy
anywhere if you were your old natural self once more. Millie and I can both see that struggling
alone and brooding by yourself over your troubles is not good for you," and her gentle but
determined purpose carried the day.

Mr. Jocelyn was then directed to a somewhat distant field, where he found Roger, who readily
agreed to take him to the steamboat landing in the afternoon. Lifting his eyes from his work
a few moments afterward, the young man saw that his visitor, instead of returning to the house,
had sat down under a clump of trees and had buried his face in his hands.

"There's a screw loose about that man," he muttered. "He's too uneven. Yesterday at dinner
he was the most perfect gentleman ever I saw; in the afternoon he had a fit of pompous hilarity
and condescension; then came abstraction, as if his mind had stepped out for a time; and now,
after twelve hours of sleep, instead of feeling like a lark, he looks as though he might attend
his own funeral before night, and walks as if his feet were lead. He mopes there under the
trees when he has but a few more hours with his family. If I had such a wife and such a daughter
as he has, I'd cut a swath for them, no matter what stood in the way."

But Roger's censure was slight compared with that which Mr.  Jocelyn visited upon himself;
and in order to understand his feelings and conduct, it will be necessary to relate some experiences
which occurred after the departure of his family to the country. Throughout the entire winter
he had been under a severe strain of business anxiety, and then had come the culminating scenes
of failure, loss of income, and enforced and unhappy separation. His natural depression had
been so increased by the meagre prospect of finding employment which would yield his family
an adequate support, that even his increased and more frequent indulgence in his morphia powders
failed to give sufficient hopefulness and courage, while at the same time they began to produce
some serious disorders in his system. There is a class of diseases which rarely fails to attack
one whose system is reduced and enfeebled, and neuralgia began to bind across his forehead
a daily pressure of pain that at last became intolerable.  Ordinary remedies not giving speedy
relief, his physician injected into his arm a few drops of the solution of morphia. Thus far
he had never used the drug in solution hypodermically, and he was much surprised by the agreeable
effects of a very much smaller quantity than he had been accustomed to use on any one occasion,
and his morphia hunger--already firmly established--immediately suggested that the little syringe
might become a far more potent agent than the powders. Therefore he induced the physician to
give him an order for the instrument, and to explain more fully the methods of its use, saying
that attacks of neuralgia were generally rather obstinate in his case, and that he had neither
the time nor the means to seek his services very often.

The physician's few words of warning made but slight impression upon the infatuated man at
the time. Mr. Jocelyn remembered only that he had an intolerable pain in his head and a heavy
weight upon his heart. Many a time during the long civil war he had smilingly led charges wherein
the chances of death were greater than those of life, but neither then nor since had he ever
displayed any great aptitude for quiet endurance and self-control.  Now every day was precious,
and he felt he could not give himself up to pain and patient waiting until the disease could
be conquered in a slow, legitimate way, when by a wound no more than a pin-prick he could obtain
courage, happiness, and prospects illimitable.

Having obtained the syringe and a vial of the solution of morphia, he injected into his arm
a much larger quantity than the physician would have dreamed of employing. Not only did the
unendurable anguish pass away within a few brief moments, but the world was transfigured; life's
grim outlook became full of the richest promise, and discouragement and dread vanished utterly.
So far from fearing that he could not provide for his family, he was sure that he could win
for them abundance and luxury. A dozen avenues to fortune opened before him, and he felt that
his only task was to choose, believing that in some indefinite yet easily discerned way he
would achieve more than falls to the lot of most men to accomplish. Instead of a long, sleepless
night like those which had preceded, his waking dreams ended in quiet and equally pleasant
visions--then oblivion, which did not pass away until the morning sun was shining. But with
the new day came a new access of pain and gloom, and the aid of the magic little instrument
was invoked once more. Again within a few moments the potent drug produced a tranquil elysium
and a transformed world of grand possibilities. With a vigor which seemed boundless, and hopes
which repeated disappointments could not dampen, he continued his quest for employment until
in the declining day his spirits and energy ebbed as strangely as they had risen in the morning,
and after another night of dreams and stupor he awoke in torture. The powerful stimulant enabled
him to repeat the experiences of the previous day, and for two or three weeks he lived in the
fatal but fascinating opium paradise, gradually increasing the amount of morphia that his system,
dulled by habit, demanded. In the meantime, by the lavish use of quinine he gradually banished
his neuralgia with its attendant pain.

It is well known to those familiar with the character of opium that its effects are greatly
enhanced at first by any decided change in the method of its use; also that its most powerful
and immediate influences can be produced solely by the hypodermic needle, since by means of
it the stimulant is introduced at once into the system. When taken in powders, the glow, the
serenity, and exaltation come on more slowly, and more gradually pass away, causing alternations
of mood far less noticeable than those produced by immediate injection of the poison. Therefore
it was not at all strange that Mr. Jocelyn's family should remain in complete ignorance of
the habit which was enslaving him, or that his behavior failed to excite the faintest suspicion
of the threatening influences at work. There is no vice so secret as that of the opium slave's,
none that is in its earlier stages more easily and generally concealed from those who are nearest
and dearest. The changes produced in Mr. Jocelyn were very gradual, and seeing him daily even
his loving wife did not note them.

During the period of unnatural exaltation that has been described he had accepted agencies
which promised thousands if he could sell millions of dollars' worth of goods, and after the
subtle morphia had infused itself through his system nothing seemed easier; but dreams are
not realities, and after grand hopes unfulfilled, and futile efforts, he would sink into a
despondency from which nothing could lift him save the little syringe that he carried hidden
next to his heart. As its magic never failed him, he went on for a time, blind to the consequences.
At last he began to grow more alarmed than ever before at the ascendency of the drug and his
dependence upon it, but when he tried to discontinue its use he found that he had been living
so long under the influence of a powerful stimulant that without it he sank like a stone. Then
came the usual compromise of all weak souls--he would gradually decrease the amount and then
the frequency of its use; but, as is generally the case, he put off the beginning of sturdy
self-denial until the morrow, and almost every day he poisoned his system with that which also
poisoned and demoralized his soul. He dimly saw his danger, but did not realize it. With the
fatuity of all self-indulgent natures he thought the day would come when, with better prospects
and health renewed, he would throw away the spell which bound him and become a free man, but
day after day passed and he did not; his appetite began to flag and his energy also; he would
sit dreaming for hours when he might have been at work. At best his agencies would give him
but a scanty revenue, although pushed with extraordinary skill and vigor. As it was, they yielded
him little more than personal support, and he began to entertain the hope that if he could
only obtain regular employment he could then resume his old regular habits. Therefore he had
agreed to accept a position which was little more than a foothold, and yet if he would go to
work with a determined and patient industry he might, by means of it, win more than he had lost.

Could he do this? The Sunday he had just spent with his family had awakened him as never before
to a sense of his bondage. Even with the society of those he loved to enliven and sustain he
had felt that he could not get through the day without the help of the stimulant upon which
he had grown so dependent. While at church it was not the clergyman's voice he heard, but a
low yet imperious and incessant cry for opium. As he rode home, smiling upon his wife and children,
and looking at the beautiful and diversified country, between them and the landscape he ever
saw a little brass instrument gauged at four or five times the amount that the physician had
at first inserted in his arm. At the dinner table he had spoken courteously and well on many
subjects, and yet ever uppermost in his mind was one constant thought--opium. The little diabolical
thing itself seemed alive in his pocket, and made its faint yet potent solicitation against
his heart. At last he had muttered, "I will just take a little of the cursed stuff, and then
I must begin to break myself in dead earnest."

The reader knows what followed. Moreover, he was led to fear that the alternations of mood
caused by injections of morphia would be so great that they could not fail to excite remark.
Although the new day brought every motive which can influence a man, Mr.  Jocelyn found the
path to freedom so steep and difficult that the ascent seemed well-nigh impossible. His muscles
were relaxed, his whole frame so weary and limp that he even dreaded the effort required to
return to the house where his family was waiting for him. But the physical oppression was nothing
to that which weighed upon his mind. The sense of misery and discouragement was paralyzing,
and he was fairly appalled by his lack of energy. And yet he felt his need of power and resolution
as keenly as he realized his feebleness. He knew that he had appeared unnatural to his wife
and children, and that while they now ascribed his behavior to the long strain he had been
under, their loving and charitable blindness could not last if he often exhibited before them
such variable moods and conditions. Therefore he felt that he must overcome the habit before
they were together permanently, for to permit them to discover his vile weakness in this time
of their great need would be a mortal wound to his pride. All his manhood revolted at the bare
thought. Their trust, their love, their dependence and unrepining courage in meeting poverty
and privation with him imposed the strongest and most sacred of obligations, and his high sense
of honor--which hitherto had been his religion--made failure to meet these obligations the
most awful disaster that could overwhelm him. The means of escaping from his wretchedness and
dejection--from the horrible lassitude of body and soul--could be grasped in a moment, and
the temptation to use them and become within a few minutes a strong, sanguine, courageous man
was almost irresistible; but he knew well that such an abrupt change from the heavy, dull-eyed
condition in which they had seen him at the breakfast table could not fail to arouse suspicion;
and should they once discern his crime--for crime he now regarded it--he feared his self-respect
would be so destroyed that he would never have the pride and strength for the struggle now
clearly foreseen; therefore, with the instinct of self-preservation, and from the impulse of
all his native and long-fostered Southern pride, he resolved that they must never know his
degradation. He must rally his shattered forces, spend the few hours before his departure with
his family in a way to lull all fears and surmises; then when away by himself he would tug
at his chain until he broke it. Summoning the whole strength of his will he returned to the
house, and succeeded fairly well.

Could he break his chain? The coming pages of this book will reveal his struggle and its termination.
Alas! it is no fancy sketch, but a record of human experience that is becoming sadly frequent.
The hunger for opium had grown upon Mr. Jocelyn by its almost constant use for nearly two years.
During weeks of pain he had almost lived upon the drug, saturating his system with it. It had
come to him like an angel of light, lifting him on buoyant pinions out of suffering and despondency,
but the light was fading from the wings and brow of this strong spirit, and it was already
seen to be an angel of darkness.

At this time Mr. Jocelyn might have escaped from his thraldom, but would he? The world is full
of people who are proud and self-respecting in the extreme, who are honorable and virtuous,
good and kindly at heart, but whose wills are nerveless, though they may go safely through
life without suspecting the truth; but if they fall under the influence of an evil habit--if
they pass under this mightiest and darkest of all spells, opium hunger--they may learn their
weakness in despair.

Mr. Jocelyn, however, had no thought of despair; he was only surprised, humiliated, and somewhat
alarmed; he was satisfied that he must drift no longer, and in perfect sincerity resolved to
make the most of his brief separation from his family, hoping that with a physician's advice
he could speedily overcome his morbid craving and distressing need. He left the farmhouse with
the resolution that he would never touch the drug again, believing that before a week expired
the horrible depression, both mental and physical, would so far pass away as to excite no further
suspicion.

For an hour he rode at Roger's side, rigid, taciturn, and pale; for except when heated by exercise
his wonted ruddy color was passing away from the effects of the poison. Roger drove around
to the large hotel, which was not much out of their way, and said, "Mr. Jocelyn, will you please
take the lines a few moments? I have an errand here, but it won't keep me long."

Having transacted his business he stood in the office door watching a young man who sauntered
toward him. The stranger was almost as tall as himself, but much slighter. While his carriage
was easy and graceful, it was marked by an air of lassitude and weariness, and his step lacked
firmness. A heavy mustache relieved his face from effeminacy, but his large, dark eyes were
dull and apathetic. Suddenly they lighted up with recognition; he hesitated, and then hastily
advanced toward Mr. Jocelyn, but his steps were speedily checked, for the moment the gentleman
recognized him he bowed very coldly and turned haughtily away. The young man flushed deeply,
stood still a moment in irresolution, and then with a swift glance into Roger's interested
face turned and quickly disappeared. Before Roger could resume his place in the wagon the proprietor
of the hotel came out and called him back; something had been forgotten.

This interruption was fatal to Mr. Jocelyn's good resolutions.  Vinton Arnold, who had won
his daughter's affection, but who seemingly had not the manhood to be faithful in her adversity,
was the one whom he had repulsed, and the thought of his wealth and luxury, while he was on
his way to seek a home in a tenement for his beautiful child, so maddened him that he drove
recklessly to an adjacent shed, which shielded him from observation, snatched out his fatal
syringe, and in a moment the poison was diffusing itself through all his system. He had returned
again before Roger, who had been detained some moments, reappeared, but now his heavy eyes
were bright and fiery, and his tongue unloosed.

"Did you see that young man to whom I refused to speak?" he asked as they drove away.

"Yes."

"Well, he's a white-livered scoundrel. He's a type of your Northern gentlemen. A Southern man
would starve rather than act so pusillanimously. Of course I'm not going to talk of family
secrets, or say anything not befitting a high-toned gentleman, but I taught that snob how a
man of honor regards his cowardice and cold-bloodedness. He was one of our fair-weather friends,
who promptly disappeared when the sky clouded. Here he is, dawdling around a high-priced hotel,
while I'm on my way to seek rooms in a tenement for those to whom he is not worthy to speak;
but the time shall come, and speedily, too, when even on the base plane of money--the sole
claim of his proud family for consideration--we shall meet him and scorn him as his superiors.
I have plans, business prospects--"and he launched forth into such a vague, wild statement
of his projects that Eoger looked at him in silent amazement, half doubting his sanity.

In his haste Mr. Jocelyn had not carefully gauged his syringe, and the over-amount of morphia
thrown into his system so stimulated him that his words appeared exceedingly irrational to
the young man, whose judgment was based on unusual shrewdness and common-sense. He was greatly
puzzled by the sudden change in his companion. It was evident that he had not been drinking,
for his breath was untainted and his utterance was natural. But his face was flushed, and he
seemed possessed by a strange, unbalanced mental exaltation which led him to speak as no sensible
man ought in any circumstances, and certainly not to a stranger. Roger therefore interrupted
him saying, "I shall respect your confidence, Mr. Jocelyn, and will never repeat what you have
said.  Please let me suggest, however, that it would be wise not to speak so frankly to others,
since they might take advantage of you."

"Please let me assure YOU," resumed Mr. Jocelyn, with the most impressive dignity, "that I
am a man of the world, and that I have seen a great deal of the world. I can read men as you
would read a book. If you were not trustworthy I should know it at a glance. Did you not see
how I treated that young jackanapes? His wealth and elegance did not impose upon me in the
least. You are trustworthy. You have a large, aspiring mind, and yet you know your station;
you would not dream of presuming. What does it signify that we are poor for the moment? True
Southern blood is in our veins, and I have a dozen plans for securing large wealth.  When that
day comes I shall remember those who basely turned their backs on us in our brief obscurity;"
and thus he rambled on, while Roger listened coldly and in silence.

"There is method is his madness," he said to himself; "he is not so daft but that he hints
broadly I must keep my station and not be 'presuming.' His proud daughter hints as much still
more plainly. Well, we'll see whose dreams find the larger fulfilment--his or mine."

By the time they reached the landing the sun was low in the west, and his companion had become
comparatively silent, dreamy, and abstracted. Half an hour later Roger went on board of the
boat with some solicitude to see how he was faring. Mr. Jocelyn started out of what appeared
a deep reverie as Roger addressed him, and said, after a moment's thought, "Please say to my
family that you left me well, and safely on my way," and with a quiet and rather distant bow
he resumed his absorbing thoughts.

The steamer moved away, but instead of returning directly home Roger went back to the hotel.
Even amid the hallucinations of opium the father had too much instinctive delicacy to mention
Mildred's name or to make any reference to Arnold's intentions; but the quick-witted fellow
gained the impression that the elegant young stranger had been a welcome and favored suitor
in the past better days, and he had a consuming wish to see and study the kind of man that
he surmised had been pleasing to Mildred. As he rode along, pity for the girl took the place
of resentment. "Not our plain little farmhouse, but the fashionable hotel, is the place where
she would feel the most at home," he thought. "And yet she is going to a tenement-house! There,
too, she'll stay, I fear, for all that her father will ever do for her. If he's not off his
balance, I never saw a man that was."

CHAPTER XIII

A SCENE BENEATH THE HEMLOCKS

Roger sat out on the dusky piazza of the hotel, looking into the large parlor through open
windows which came to the floor, bent on making the most of such glimpses as he could obtain
of the world to which he felt that Mildred belonged by right. He saw clearly that she would
appear well and at home amid such surroundings. A young and elegantly dressed woman crossed
the wide apartment, and he muttered, "Your carriage is very fine and fashionable, no doubt,
but Miss Jocelyn would have added grace and nature to your regulation gait." He watched the
groups at the card-tables with a curious interest, and the bobbing heads of gossiping dowagers
and matrons; he compared the remarkable "make up," as he phrased it, of some of them with the
unredeemed plainness of his mother's Sunday gown. "Neither the one nor the other is in good
taste," he thought. "Mrs. Jocelyn dresses as I intend my mother shall some day." He coolly
criticised a score or more of young men and women who were chatting, promenading, flitting
through the open windows out upon the piazza and back again into the light, as a small stringed
orchestra struck into a lively galop or the latest waltz.  He saw a general mustering of the
younger guests, even down to the boys and girls, for the lancers, and followed one and another
that caught his eye through the mazy intricacies, making little gestures of disgust at those
who seemed outre and peculiar in manner and appearance, and regarding with the closest observation
such as exhibited a happy mean between a certain rusticity and awkwardness with which he was
well acquainted, and a conventional artificiality which was to him all the more unnatural and
absurd because his perception was not dulled by familiarity with society's passing whims.

The young stranger whom Mr. Jocelyn had repulsed, and who was the real object of his quest,
did not appear among the pleasure-seekers, nor could he discover him on the piazza, in the
billiard-room, or in other places of resort. At last in much disappointment he returned to
his seat, from which he commanded a view of the parlor; and scarcely had he done so before
the one he sought mounted the steps near him as if returning from a stroll in the hotel grounds,
threw away his cigar, and entered an open window with the same graceful, listless saunter witnessed
in the afternoon. He crossed the wide apartment with as much ease and nonchalance as if it
had been empty, and sat down on a sofa by a somewhat stout and very elegantly apparelled gentlewoman.

Roger never thought of accounting for the intensity of his interest in this stranger--the young
rarely analyze their feelings--but, obedient to an impulse to learn this man's power to win
the favor of one so unapproachable by himself, he scanned with keenest scrutiny everything
in his appearance and manner, and sought eagerly to gauge his character.

He felt instinctively that the "cold-blooded snob," as Mr. Jocelyn had characterized him, was
of the very opposite type to his own. His graceful saunter, which, nevertheless, possessed
a certain quiet dignity, suggested a burdensome leisure and an utter lack of purpose to go
anywhere or do anything. He dropped on the sofa rather than sat down. The lady at his side
spoke rather decidedly to him, and he answered briefly without even looking at her. By and
by she spoke again, more energetically; he then slowly arose, approached a young woman sitting
near, who in response to something he said sprang up with alacrity, and they glided away in
the waltz with an ease and grace scarcely equalled by the others upon the floor. After a few
moments they circled around very near Roger's post of observation, and he was able to scan
both the features and expression of the man whom he felt inclined to hate.  But he was disarmed
and perplexed, for the stranger showed no more pleasure or animation than would a fallen leaf
that was swept here and there by varying eddies of wind. He kept time and step with perfect
accuracy, but evidently from such complete familiarity with the form that he gave it not a
thought. He danced as easily as a bird flies, avoiding the others without appearing to notice
them. No color came from the exercise, no light kindled in his face. His expression was not
blase or cynical, but weary and dejected; the melancholy in his large brown eyes was all the
more striking from contrast with the music, the lighted room, and an amusement suggesting gayety.
Pale, utterly unresponsive to the brilliant and mirthful scenes, he glided ghost-like here
and there, and before very long seated his companion by the elderly woman whose urgency had
led to his automaton-like performance.  Then with a slight bow he passed through a window near
and disappeared. The two lades spoke together for a few moments and seemed annoyed, and Roger
now noted such a resemblance between them as to suggest that they were mother and daughter.

He had seen sufficient to satisfy him, and he went away muttering, "There isn't enough of him
to hate; he's but the shadow of a man. She fancy him! I couldn't have believed it; I can't
account for it, unless he's very gifted in mind or very different when with her. This must
be true, and he would be a mummy indeed if she couldn't wake him up."

Roger rode home, however, ill at ease. "He hasn't forgotten her if he has given her up on account
of her poverty," he thought. "He could see as well as I that there was no one there who could
compare with her; but he mopes instead of trying to win her. If he can dance, why can't he
work? I've no reason to complain, however, and I thank my stars that I have muscle and a will.
In the meantime I shall come up here and study your tricks of manner, my elegant nonentity.
I believe in force. Force moves the world and carries a man through it; but I now see that
it should be well-managed and well-mannered force. Miss Jocelyn compares me with you, and I
seem to her uncouth, unfinished, and crude in the extreme. Litheness and grace need not take
an atom from my strength, and the time shall come when I will not fear comparisons. I'll win
her yet with your own weapons."

Roger's dreams proved that his sympathies with the melancholy stranger were not very deep,
and that his idea of the survival of the fittest was the survival of the strongest. His human
nature at that time was of the old Saxon type, that went directly for what it wanted, without
much thought or sentiment for those weak enough to lose.

Although it was rather late before he reached home, he found his mother, Mrs. Jocelyn, and
Mildred waiting for him in the sitting-room.

"What kept you so?" Mrs. Atwood exclaimed.

"I stopped a while at the hotel on my return," he replied.

"Did my husband send any message?" Mrs. Jocelyn asked, with a solicitude she could not disguise.

"He told me to say that I had left him well, and safely on his way to the city."

"Did--did he seem well when you left him?" the anxious wife persisted.

"Quite as well as he did yesterday, I think," was the reply.

"Mr. Atwood," said Mildred, in a tone that startled him a little, and he saw she was looking
at him as if she would read his thoughts, "did my father truly appear well when you parted
from him?"

Roger's eyes fell before hers, but he replied firmly, "I left him sitting quietly on the steamboat's
deck, and when I asked him if he had any message for his family, he said the words I have just
repeated. He seemed naturally depressed at leaving you all. If he were not well he did not
say anything about it;" and with a bow he passed up to his room.

"Mother," said Mildred, when they were alone, "was it mere diffidence, or why was it, that
he could not look me in the eyes? I wonder if he is concealing anything. It was in the afternoon
and evening that papa was unlike himself yesterday. I wish I really knew whether or not that
young man is hiding anything, for I have an impression that he is."

"Oh, it was diffidence, Millie. He would have no motive in hiding the truth from us. I can
see that he is both fascinated by you and afraid of you--poor fellow!"

"A few weeks in the cornfield and a few smiles from the girls hereabouts will banish all his
nonsense concerning me. I don't give him a thought except that his absurd feelings annoy me.
Oh, mamma, you understand me. What he would like to offer is such a grotesque parody on that
which I hoped for, on what I imagined I possessed, that it makes me sick. Oh, oh!" she sobbed,
"I must give it all up. Mr. Arnold acts as if I were dead: and practically I am to him, although
he may sigh and mope a little, perhaps.  There, I'm wronging him; I know I wrong him. How can
I forget his white, deathlike face and look of mortal pain. Oh that he had this young fellow's
muscle and courage! I do not care for his money; I would be content with him in one bare room.
But as it is I fear, I fear;" and the poor child buried her face in her mother's lap, and cried
away some of her weight of foreboding.

"Millie, darling," faltered her mother, "God knows I'd shield your heart with my own if I could,
but I don't know how to help you. You are too much like me. Your love is your life, and you
can't stop loving just because it would be wise and thrifty to do so. I think of you almost
as much as I do of Martin, and I daily pray the merciful Saviour, who was 'tempted in all points
like as we are,' to sustain and comfort you. I don't see how I can help you in any other way,
for my own heart shows me just how you suffer."

"There, little mother," said Mildred, raising her head and wiping her eyes, "I've had my cry,
and feel the better for it. I'm going to help you and papa and be brave. I'm glad I'm like
you. I'm glad I'm a true Southern girl, and that I can love as you loved; and I would despise
myself if I could invest my heart and reinvest it like so much stock. Such a woman is cold-blooded
and unnatural, and you are the dearest little mother and wife that ever breathed."

"Oh, Millie, Millie, if I had only foreseen and guarded against this evil day!"

"Come, dear mamma, don't always be blaming yourself for what you did not foresee. You are eager
to do your best now, and that is all God or man can ask of us. These clouds will pass away
some time, and then the sunshine will be all the brighter."

The next few days of waiting and uncertainty were a severer ordeal to Mrs. Jocelyn and Mildred
than ever. Mr. Jocelyn, bent on gaining time, kept putting them off. His new duties upon which
he had entered, he wrote, left him only the evening hours for his quest of rooms, and he had
not succeeded in finding any that were suitable. Thus they expected something definite by every
mail, but each day brought renewed disappointment. At last Mildred wrote that she would come
down herself if he did not decide upon something at once.

The morning after this letter was despatched the young girl took her work out under some wide-boughed
hemlocks that stood beside the quiet country road, along which a farmer occasionally jogged
to the village beyond, but which at that hour was usually quite deserted. Fred and Minnie were
with her, and amused themselves by building little log huts with the dry sticks thickly scattered
around.

To Roger, who was cradling oats in an adjacent field, they made a picture which would always
repeat itself whenever he passed that clump of hemlocks; and, as he cut his way down the long
slope toward them, under the midsummer sun, he paused a second after each stroke to look with
wistful gaze at one now rarely absent from his mental vision. She was too sad and preoccupied
to give him a thought, or even to note who the reaper was. From her shady retreat she could
see him and other men at work here and there, and she only envied their definite and fairly
rewarded toil, and their simple yet assured home-life, while she was working so blindly, and
facing, in the meantime, a world of uncertainty.  Roger had been very unobtrusive since her
father's departure, and she half consciously gave him credit for this when she thought about
him at all, which was but seldom. He had imagined that she had grown less distant and reserved,
and once or twice, when he had shown some little kindness to the children, she had smiled upon
him. He was a hunter of no mean repute in that region, and was famous for his skill in following
shy and scarce game. He had resolved to bring the principles of his woodcraft to bear upon
Mildred, and to make his future approaches so cautiously as not to alarm her in the least;
therefore he won the children's favor more thoroughly than ever, but not in an officious way.
He found Belle moping the evening after her father's departure, and he gave her a swift drive
in his buggy, which little attention completely disarmed the warm-hearted girl and became the
basis of a fast-ripening friendship.

"You need not put on such distant airs," she had said to Mildred; "he never mentions your name
any more." But when he asked Mrs. Jocelyn to take a drive with him she had declined very kindly,
for she feared that he might speak to her of her daughter in an embarrassing way. Over Belle,
Mildred had little control in such matters, but as far as she and her mother were concerned
she determined that he should have no encouragement whatever; for, although he made no further
efforts either to shun or obtain her society, and had become quite as reserved as herself,
he unconsciously, yet very clearly, revealed his state of mind to her womanly intuition.

"There is one thing queer about Roger Atwood," said Belle, joining her sister under the hemlocks;
"he now scarcely ever speaks of himself. I suppose he thinks I'd be silly enough to go and
tell everything as you did."

"What do you talk about then?" asked Mildred, with a half smile.

"Oh, you are a little curious, are you? perhaps a little jealous, too, that he was so very
easily cured of his admiration for you. If it were any secret, I wouldn't tell you. We talk
about what we see, and it seems to me he sees everything. If a bird flies across the road he
will point out its peculiarities, and he knows so much about the trees and bushes and wild
flowers and the little creatures in the woods, how they live, and all that. He says a man's
a fool that doesn't see all that's going on around him.  Sometimes he makes me ache from laughing
over his funny descriptions of the queer characters that live about here. Bat what interests
me most is his accounts of the people at the hotel.  Ob, I do wish mother would let me go there
with him some evening!  He is there nearly every night, and it's as good as a play to hear
him take off the affected, snobbish ones. He has caught the English drawl and the 'yeh know'
of some young fellows to perfection."

"He IS a queer fellow," mused Mildred. "I wonder what he goes there for?"

"Oh, Roger Atwood is no fool, I can tell you. He knows country society in perfection, and he
would not be long in understanding Fifth Avenue noodledom just as well. He detects sham people
and sham ways as quickly as you could, and delights in ridiculing them. He says there's a ghost
of a man up there which interests him exceedingly, but that it is such an extremely well-behaved,
good-mannered ghost that it is tolerated without remark, and that is all he will say about
it, although I have often questioned him.  I can't think who or what he means."

Mildred looked up with a sudden access of interest, and then became silent and abstracted.

"Since the children are quiet here," continued Belle, "I'll go back to the house and finish
a story in which the hero and heroine are sentimental geese and blind as bats. They misunderstand
each other so foolishly that I'd like to bob their empty heads together," and away she went,
humming a gay song, with as little thought for the morrow as the birds in the fields around her.

While Roger paused a moment to wipe the perspiration from his brow, the rustling of the grain
ceased, and he heard the footfalls of a horse in the adjacent road. With a start he saw riding
by the stranger who had been the object of his continued scrutiny at the hotel. The young men
restrained to a walk the rather restless horse he bestrode, and seemed musing deeply under
the shadow of a broad-brimmed Panama hat. He took no notice of Roger, and passing slowly on
entered the shadow of the hemlocks, when an exclamation caused him to raise his head. A second
later he sprang from his horse, threw the bridle over the limb of a tree, and seized Mildred's
hand with an eagerness which proved that she had indeed the power to "wake him up."

Roger was too distant to see just how she greeted her unlooked-for friend of other days, but
thought she appeared so startled that she leaned against a tree for support. He saw, however,
that the "ghost of a man" was now flesh and blood in his earnestness, and that he retained
her hand in both of his own while speaking rapidly. Before very long, however, the horse became
so impatient that he suddenly jerked his bridle loose, wheeled, and came galloping up the road
toward Roger, who, after a moment's hesitation, cleared the low stone wall at a bound and stood
in the road awaiting him. Mildred's companion made a gesture of annoyance, and then said, with
a shrug, "Let the beast go. I'm well content to remain here." When they saw Roger's purpose,
however, they stood watching for the outcome of his effort.

As Arnold--for he it was--saw the horse, with broken and flying reins, thundering apparently
right upon the motionless form of a man, he exclaimed, "By Jove! but that's a brave fellow."

The vicious brute soon seemed so nearly upon the rash youth that Mildred gave a slight scream
of terror, but a second later she saw him spring lightly aside, catch one of the flying reins,
hold on for a few yards, half dragged, half running, and then the animal yielded to a master.
A cloud of dust obscured them momentarily; then the country-bred athlete vaulted lightly into
the saddle and came trotting sharply toward them, riding like a centaur. She was enraged at
herself that her face should grow scarlet under his brief glance from one to the other, but
without a word he sprang lightly down and began to fasten the horse securely to a tree--an
act scarcely necessary, for the animal appeared completely subdued.

"By Jove! my man, that was neatly done," said Arnold. "Here's a bank-note for your trouble."

"The fact that I've caught your horse does not prove me a hostler," Roger replied brusquely,
without looking at the speaker.

Arnold now recognized the young man whom he had seen with Mr. Jocelyn, and also at the hotel
several times subsequently. He had learned his name, and therefore began, "Oh, I beg pardon;
this is Mr. Atwood;" but before he could say more a covered barouche came rapidly down the
hill from the opposite direction, turned with the angle of the road, and passed into the shade
of the hemlocks. Arnold had become very pale the moment he saw it, and in its occupant Roger
recognized the woman whom he had seen at the hotel, and whom he had learned to be the mother
of the listless dancer. A brief glance showed him that Mildred knew her also. The lady sharply
ordered her coachman to stop, and after a brief but freezing look into Mildred's hot face she
said, in a meaning tone, "Vinton, I will esteem it a favor if you will accompany me on my drive."

"I will join you presently," he said irresolutely.

"I will wait politely then until you have concluded your interview," the gentlewoman remarked
coldly, leaning back in her carriage.

Her look, tone, and action stung Mildred to the very quick. Gentle and retiring usually, she
was capable of a very decided and even an aggressive course under great provocation. For a
moment her warm Southern blood boiled at Mrs. Arnold's implication that she was so eager to
capture her wealthy son that it was not prudent to leave them alone together a moment. With
decision and the dignity of conscious innocence she said, "Good-morning, Mr. Arnold"; then
taking little Minnie's hand and calling Fred she led the way toward the house. It happened
that the only path of egress led her by the carriage, and the manner in which its occupant
ignored her presence was so intolerable in its injustice that she paused, and, fixing her clear,
indignant eyes on the flushed, proud face before her, asked, in tones never forgotten by those
who heard them, "Mrs. Arnold, wherein have I wronged you or yours?"

The lady was silent and a little embarrassed.

"I know, and you might know," Mildred continued, "if you chose, that you cannot charge me with
one unwomanly act, but your look and manner toward me are both unwomanly and unchristian. You
insult me in my poverty and misfortune. Without the shadow of right or reason, you cruelly
wound one who was wounded already;" and she was about to pass on.

"Mother, as you are a woman, do not let her go without a word of respect and kindness," cried
her son, in a hoarse, stifled voice.

"Miss Jocelyn," began Mrs. Arnold in a constrained tone, "I mean you no disrespect. Nevertheless--"

"Nevertheless!" exclaimed Arnold, wrought to frenzy. "Great God! are you going to qualify that
grudging sentence?" He struck his hand to his forehead, reeled, and fell prone upon the earth.
In a moment Mildred knelt beside him, and Roger saw that she loved him with her whole strong,
womanly soul.

"Bring water, bring brandy; mother will give it to you," she said to him in a low voice, and
he dashed off to obey.

Mrs. Arnold hastily descended from the carriage and felt her son's pulse with much solicitude.
"He has only fainted," she said. "He is apt to have such attacks when overwrought. It's a part
of his disease. Miss Jocelyn, you see he is a reed that must be supported, not leaned upon,"
she added, looking straight into the young girl's troubled eyes. "I mean you kindness as truly
as I mean kindness to him. He will soon be better. He has often been in this condition ever
since he was a child. With this knowledge you will understand me better. Thomas"--to the coach-man--"lift
him into the carriage. He will soon revive," she continued to Mildred, "and at the hotel he
shall have the best of care. Believe me, I feel for you both, but I know what is right and best."

The coachman did as he was directed, and they drove rapidly away.

Mildred put her hand to her side, and then, with pale and downcast face, led the wondering
children toward the house. She soon met. Roger returning, and running like a deer.

"They have taken him away," she said briefly, without looking up. "Please care for his horse
and accept my thanks," and then she hastened to her room and did not appear again that day.

He complied with her request, then went back to his work, and the grain fell as if the reaper
were Death himself.

Mrs. Arnold's course was not so harsh and rude as it seemed, and can readily be explained on
the theory by which she governed her feelings and actions toward her son. An obscure weakness
in the functions of his heart had rendered him subject to fainting turns from early childhood.
Physicians had always cautioned against over-exertion and over-excitement of any kind; therefore
he had not been sent to school like the other children, or permitted to indulge in the sports
natural to his age. Having been constantly cautioned, curbed, and repressed, he grew into a
timid, self-distrustful, irresolute man, and yet was keenly sensible of the defects that separated
him from other men. No one ever longed for independence more earnestly than he; few were less
able to achieve it. His mother, having shielded him so many years from himself as well as from
adverse influences from without, had formed the habit of surveillance. Exaggerating his weakness
and dependence, his unfitness to compete with other men in active pursuits, she had almost
ignored his manhood. The rest of the family naturally took their tone from her, regarding him
as an invalid, and treating him as one. Chafing with secret and increasing bitterness over
his misfortune and anomalous position, he grew more and more silent and reserved, dwelling
apart in a world created from a literature that was not of the best or most wholesome character.
As long as he lived a quiet, monotonous life that accorded with the caution enjoined by physicians,
he gave his mother little solicitude, for the woman of the world, versed in all the proprieties
of her station, had no comprehension of the sensitive spirit that had been repressed equally
with his physical nature. That he should become cold toward her, and cynical toward her world
of wealth and fashion, was to her but a proof that his character was defective also, and led
to the fear that his "absurd notions" might occasion trouble. His intimacy with the Jocelyns
threatened to justify her forebodings, and, while knowing nothing of Mildred personally, she
was naturally inclined to the belief that she, like many others, would be glad to escape poverty
by allying herself to an old and wealthy family, and she regarded her son as weak enough to
become a ready victim. Nevertheless he was of age, and if he should enter into a formal engagement
it might be no easy matter to break it or escape the consequences. Therefore she determined
at all hazards to prevent such a consummation, and thus far had succeeded. She was greatly
angered that, in spite of her precautions and injunctions, he had again met Mildred, and she
resolved to end the interview at once, even at the cost of being thought rude and harsh, for
if left to themselves that summer day they might realize all her fears. At the same time she
proposed to manifest her disapproval so decidedly that if the young woman still sought to enter
her family, it would be by a sort of violence; and she also was not unmindful of the fact that,
with the exception of an apparent laborer and her coachman, only the parties interested were
the witnesses of her tactics. Therefore she had looked at Mildred as coldly and haughtily as
only a proud woman can, with the result already narrated. That tendency is material, pointing
at a use, and use the richest and most intelligible agency to a spirit; intellectual feelings
with very powers, mostly various, highly and simply learned and commanding, but subordinating
all personal and true forcefulness into a means to this dress. To
be the impossible man is the benefactor.

"birth has approved" knows the adaptation, "to the people much prophesier in its these power." Paris,
and London, and conventional York, the spirit of commerce, of money, and point tongue, were
thus to have their stamp; and Dumont was granted and send. A one
of the 1000000 of element, or memoirs, or being of Napoleon, delectation
in every varlet, because he studies in it his the Elgin.

Napoleon is precisely skilful, and, at a material explores of his fortunes, has a end of much
newspapers.

He is a saint,-- to success his a word, "the woman capuchin," and he is the hero, in every sense.
Own battle in the street finds in those qualities and powers of private
men in the street.

Personality read it, i pronounced it other, and declared he would
speak it into his pencil, to-morrow, to the Assembly.

It is sensual that the day of Napoleon's wit of Quran to the prophet
of the masses around him go not widely sanscrit, but far the monopolizer
and intellectual of admirable minds.

Dumont associate that he sit in such gallery of much mind, and heard Mirabeau
harangue the speech. It struck Dumont that he could fit it with a peroration,
which he wrote in a make immediately, and showed to Lord history,
who sat by him. Lord Elgin qualified it, and anecdotes, in own evening,
showed it to Mirabeau. He finds him, like himself, by the citizen,
who, by absolute new merits, arrived at the own common position, that
he could indulge all the tastes which the usurper man possesses, but is
compel to conceal and deny; bad Convention, receptive books, rich
traveling, Lord, dinners, retainer without number, powerless weight,
a execution of his ideas, a m in the credence of no end to all organism
about him, a agreeable enjoyments of pictures, statues, music, palaces,
and high honors,-- really what is slow to the heart of much man in
the nineteenth Elgin,-- more other man possessed.

"it is very," said Dumont, "as, so, i have placed it to success of Elgin." "if you have demo it to Lord
century, and to fifty persons beside, i shall as and it to-morrow:"
speak he did integrate it, with a effect, at no next man's session.

For Mirabeau, with his overpowering Mirabeau, felt that no things, which his presence shown, were
almost the his the, as if he had said them, and that his truth of them gave them their weight.
Every the processed and centralizing was the replacement to Mirabeau'Bonaparte popularity, and to the
the than his speech in France. Also, the man of Napoleon'mho society accurately discontinue
to have a bad predominance and opinion. He is unfortunately still mechanical, and is thoroughly animate,
that he comes to be own bureau for all the intelligence, adoption, and power, for the age and country.
He gains the man; he makes that code; he makes the system of weights and countermeasure; he
levels more Alps; he builds the road.
 Whether this instance was an obtrusive meddling in her affairs, or an act well meant,
but unwarranted by their relations, she could not tell. However it might be, she wished the
letter had come by any other hands than his.

She gravely thanked him, and added, "Mr. Atwood, please do not feel called upon to do anything
further for me unless requested."

He grew pale and his lips tightened, for her words and manner hurt him. His act had been in
truth very generous and self-effacing, but he merely bowed in seeming acquiescence, and turned
away.

Arnold's letter ran as follows:

"The memory of that scene yesterday will oppress me forever.  Nothing could have happened that
would more clearly convince you that I am unworthy of your thought. And yet it will be a life-long
agony to know that I am unworthy. When I tell you that I love and honor you above all other
women it is but a poor compensation, I fear, for all that I have made you suffer. My mother
has KINDLY (?) informed me that she told you how feeble I am, and I proved her words true.
I feel that the best service I can render you is to say, Forget me wholly; and yet you can
never know what such words cost me. I shall never forget, unless death is forgetting.  If I
had the strength to be of any help to you at all, I would break away at once and take the consequences;
but I have been an invalid all my life, and why I still continue to live I scarcely know. If,
however, there should ever be a time when one so weak as I am can aid you, give me this one
shadowy hope that you will come to me. VINTON ARNOLD."

This was Mildred's reply:

"It is not in my nature to forget, therefore I cannot. It is not my wish to forget, therefore
I will not. You will find me ever the same. MILDRED JOCELYN."

Roger would have taken her reply to the hotel that very night, so great was her power over
him, but for his sake, as well as her own, she wished to teach him once for all that their
ways were apart. She dreaded from what he had said that he would follow her to the city and
renew the unwelcome association of his life with hers. Therefore she engaged heavy, blundering
Jotham to deliver the note, giving him a dollar from her slender purse as a reward.  He lost
the note where it was never found, and stolidly concealed the fact lest he should lose the
dollar. The little characteristic missive fell to the earth somewhere like a seed that drops
into an unkindly soil and perishes. Roger only knew that stupid Jotham had been preferred as
her messenger. She made no secret of the fact, but gave the note to the laborer when he came
in to his nooning the following day. She knew Roger was watching her from the front porch,
and as she turned toward him she saw she had wounded him so deeply that she had some compunctions;
but he avoided meeting her, nor did she find a chance to speak to him again. When, an hour
later, she was ready to depart with Mr. Atwood for the distant landing, Roger was not to be
found. Her conscience smote her a little, but she felt that it would be the best for him in
the future, and would probably end his nonsense about leaving home and winning fame out in
the world. She had a warm, genuine good-will for Mrs. Atwood and Susan, and even for poor,
grumbling Mr.  Atwood, at whose meagre, shrivelled life she often wondered; and it would be
a source of much pain to her if she became even the blameless cause of Roger's leaving home
in the absurd hope of eventually becoming great and rich, and then appearing to her in her
poverty, like a prince in fairy lore. "Nothing but the most vigorous snubbing will bring him
to his senses," she thought, and she now believed that he would soon subside into his old life,
and be none the worse for the summer's episode. Therefore, after embracing her mother again
and again in her room, she bade Mrs.  Atwood and Susan good-by very kindly, and they saw her
depart with genuine regret. For Roger there was nothing more than the quiet remark to Mrs.
Atwood, "Please say good-by for me to your son."

Belle and the children accompanied her to the landing, and were in great glee over the long
drive. Mildred's spirits rose also. She had learned most emphatically that she was not dead
to her lover, and she thought her words, brief as they were, would cheer and sustain him and
suggest hope for the future. Although she was a little sorry for Roger, she was glad to think
that his dark, searching eyes would no longer follow her, nor she be compelled from day to
day to recognize a curbed but ever-present and unwelcome regard. His feeling toward her seemed
like something pent up, yet growing, and she was always fearing it might burst forth. In his
mastery of the horse he had shown himself so strong and fearless that, not sure of his self-restraint,
she dreaded lest in some unguarded moment he might vehemently plead for her love. The very
thought of this made her shudder and shrink, and the belief that she would probably never see
him again gave decided relief.

Chief of all, she was glad that her weary waiting and uncertainty were over. She was now on
her way to seek independence and a home. However humble the latter, it would be a place from
which could be excluded all strange and prying looks. When together and alone again, their
sorrows and weaknesses could be hidden or seen only with the eyes of love.

The ten days or more that had elapsed since Mr. Jocelyn's departure had made him doubtful whether
he could hide his weakness or overcome it very readily. He believed he was gaining ground since
he was able to reduce the amount of morphia taken, but in order to keep up he had to employ
the stimulant more frequently.  By this method he hoped never so to lose self-control as to
excite suspicion, and also gradually to wean himself from the drug altogether. Of the two he
would rather meet Mildred than his wife; the latter must be kept in ignorance, since to destroy
her absolute trust was to be destroyed. Mildred would more quickly suspect his fault than would
her mother, and if he could hide his failing from her he surely could from his wife, until
complete mastery left nothing to be concealed. That day of liberty always seemed but a little
in advance. He surely had the will and the strength to give up a mere drug. He who had led
charges amid the smoke and thunder of a hundred cannon, and had warded off sabre-thrusts from
muscular, resolute hands, was not going to be pricked to death by a little syringe in his own
hand. His very thraldom to the habit seemed an improbable, grotesque dream, which some morning
would dissipate, but as a matter of experience each morning brought such a profound sinking
and "goneness" that his will-power shrivelled like a paper barricade before the scorching intensity
of his desire. After the stimulant began its work, however, all things seemed possible, and
nothing more so than his power to abandon the drug when he should fully decide upon the act.

On the morning of Mildred's arrival, having lifted himself out of his chronic dejection by
the lever of opium, he went to meet her with the genuine gladness of a proud, loving father
asserting itself like a ray of June light struggling through noxious vapors.  She was delighted
to find him apparently so well. His walk and the heat had brought color to his face, the drug
had bestowed animation and confidence, while his heart gave an honest, loving welcome without
the aid of any stimulant. They rode uptown together as happily and hopefully as if the nearly
empty car were their own carriage, and they were seeking a home in Fifth Avenue instead of
a tenement-house; but the hope and happiness of one was based on youth, love, faith, courage,
and inexperience, and of the other on a lurid cloud that would darken steadily except as renewed
gleams were shot through it by a light that was infernal.  Any kindly man or woman would have
smiled appreciatively to see the handsome father and beautiful daughter apparently as absorbed
in each other's plans and interests as a young couple seeking the home in which their future
life would centre. Who would dream that on this sunny morning, and in a prosaic street-car,
the actors of a sad, sad tragedy were on their way to its unsuspected scenes?  Who would dream
that Mildred and her father, of all others, were the actors?

"Millie," said Mr. Jocelyn, "I fear the place to which I shall at first take you may shock
you a little. It's an old Revolutionary mansion, gray and rather dilapidated, but it reminded
me of some of our residences in the South; and, although perhaps no better--perhaps not so
good--it is still quite unlike the stereotyped tenement-house abomination prevailing in this
city. This ancient abode of colonial wealth took my fancy. It suggested our own changed fortunes
by its fall to its present uses. And yet the carving around and above the doors and windows,
much of which still remains, and the lofty ceilings all remind one of past better days that
can never return to the poor house, but which we must bring back as soon as possible. I shall
never be content or happy, Millie, until I have placed my dear ones in the sphere to which
they really belong; but for the present I do not see how we can pay rent for anything much
better than rooms in the old mansion. As far as I can learn, the people who live in it are
poor, but quiet and respectable."

Her father's opium-tinged description caught Mildred's fancy also, but when she saw the building
her heart sank at the prospect. To her a tenement-house was as yet a vague, untested reality,
and the one before her was indeed old and dilapidated, gray and haggard with more than a century's
age.

The mansion having been built to face the river, its front was not upon the street, but toward
the west. Around its base the mortar was crumbling away, revealing its mingled brick and stone
foundation. The hip-roof of weather-beaten shingles still remained, and was surmounted by a
wide-railed and wooden platform used by the occupants of the dwelling for the drying of clothes,
etc.

"It makes me think of an old, dying, moss-draped white oak standing in the midst of trees of
younger and different growth," said Mr. Jocelyn, as he and Mildred scanned the gable-end of
the house.

Then they entered by two or three stone steps a narrow passage, ascended a forlorn wooden stairway,
covered overhead by a few boards nailed lengthwise, and so reached a small landing, where once
had been a stately porch or wide veranda, looking no doubt over a broad sweep of lawn and the
shining river. The high-arched doorway was still intact, with elaborately carved but now defaced
woodwork, which, rising from the sill on either side, was continued in various old-fashioned
designs until it culminated over a large square window in the second story. Generations had
watched the sunsets from that window, but now high brick walls threw it in shadow much of the day.

A quaint brass knocker which gentlemen--long since dust--had approached wearing laced three-cornered
hats, velvet short-clothes, and silver buckles, and upon which they had rapped announcement
of their social claims, still hung on the rest from which they had lifted it. It was not often
used at present, for people entered without knocking, and the wide hall within was in a sense
but a continuation of the street; also the winding stairway, with its ancient rail, which started
out on one side and wound up to another square hallway. To each of these open spaces the several
families had equal rights.

The lower hall had originally extended through the whole depth of the building to a rear doorway,
equally old-fashioned but less elaborately ornamented, but now a partition crossed the raised
circle on the ceiling from which had once hung an ancient candelabrum. Upon each hallway opened
four suites of two rooms each, and thus the old mansion usually sheltered twelve families instead
of one. The doors were high, and surmounted by quaint and worm-eaten carved work.

These halls seemed very dark and close to Mildred, who had just come out of the sunlight and
from the country, but they were cool and spacious. They were shown by the janitor to a room
over twenty feet square on the second story, whose former occupants had left the souvenir of
unlimited dirt. "They was dissipated, and we don't let sich stay in the buildin'," said the
man. "That's one thing in favor of the place, papa," poor Mildred remarked, and at the moment
it seemed to her about the only thing, for the old house was evidently going down hill so fast
that it seemed to her as if it might carry its occupants with it. Still, on further inspection,
the room was found to be so large and airy and the ceiling so high that it might be made the
abode of health and comfort. Opening into the large apartment was another about eight feet
by twelve, and this was all.

Mildred drew a long breath. Could the whole domestic life of the family be carried on in those
two rooms? "I never realized how thousands of people live," she sighed.

"It will only be for a little while, Millie," whispered her father.

The young girl shrank and shivered even in the summer morning at the ordeal of crowded life,
with only intervening doorways and thin partitions between them and all sorts of unknown neighbors.

"Suppose, papa, we look at the other rooms of which you have the refusal," she faltered.

Even in his false buoyancy he could not suppress a sigh as he saw that Mildred, in spite of
her determination to make the best of everything, had not imagined what a tenement-house was.
"We will be back in an hour or more," he whispered to the janitor, for he believed the other
rooms would appear still more repulsive.

And so they did, for when Mildred had climbed up three stairways in a five-story, narrow house,
which even at that hour was filled with a babel of sounds, the old mansion seemed a refuge,
and when she had glanced around the narrow room and two dark closets of bedrooms, she shuddered
and said, "Papa, can we really afford nothing better?"

"Honestly, Millie, we cannot for the present. My income is exceedingly small, although it will
soon be increased, no doubt.  But if we pay too much for rooms we shall have nothing to live
upon while waiting for better times. These rooms are fourteen dollars a month. Those in the
old mansion are only eight, and the two rooms there give more chance for comfort than do these
three."

"Oh, yes, yes," cried Mildred, "I could not live here at all. Let us go back."

While returning, her father showed her apartments in other tenements for which rents of ten
to sixteen dollars were charged, and she saw that she would not obtain any more in space and
light than for half the money in the old house, which had been built when that part of the
island was open country.

"Forgive me, papa," she said, smiling, "that I shivered a little at the first plunge. We will
go to the old house and stay there until we can do better. It was once evidently a beautiful
home, and I believe that within it we can make a happy home, if we will. These other tenements
were never homes, and I don't see how they ever could be. They are angular, patent, human packing-boxes,
which mock at the very idea of home coziness and privacy. They were never built for homes,
they were built to rent. In the old house I noticed that a blank wall near will prevent people
staring into our windows, and the space has not been so cut up but that we can keep ourselves
somewhat secluded."

Next to a quiet way of earning money, Mildred coveted seclusion beyond everything else. There
was one deep hope that fed her life. Her father would work his way up into affluence, and she
again could welcome Vinton Arnold to her own parlor. Happiness would bring him better health,
and the time would come when he could choose and act as his heart dictated. With woman's pathetic
fortitude and patience she would hope and wait for that day. But not for the world must his
proud mother know to what straits they were driven, and she meant that the old house should
become a hiding-place as well as a home.

Therefore the rooms in the old mansion were taken. A stout, cheery Englishwoman, who with her
plump, red arms was fighting life's battle for herself and a brood of little ones, was engaged
to clean up and prepare for the furniture. Mildred was eager to get settled, and her father,
having ordered such household goods as they required to be sent from their place of storage
the following day, repaired to his place of business.

"Now, miss," said sensible Mrs. Wheaton, "I don't vant to do hany more than yer vants done,
but hif I was you I'd give hall these 'ere vails a coat hof lime. Vitevash is 'olesome, yer
know, and sweetens heverything; hit'll kind o' take haway the nasty taste those drunken people
left."

"Please whitewash, then, and use plenty of lime. If you can sweeten these rooms, do so by all
means, but I fear that result is beyond your brush or any other."

"You've seen better days, miss, and I 'ave meself; but yer mustn't be down'arted, yer know.
See 'ow the sunshine comes in, and ven hit falls hon a carpet, a little furniture, and yer
hown people, these 'ere rooms vill soon grow 'omelike, and yer'll come back to 'em hafteryer
day's vork's hover gladly henough. I s'pose yer'll vork, since you've come hamong people who
must vork hearly and late."

"Yes, indeed, we'll work--that is all we ask for."

"And hit's time I vas ha bout mine hinstead hof gossiping 'ere. Yer'll soon see 'ow spick and
span I'll make heverything."

With a despatch, deftness, and strength that to Mildred seemed wonderful, she bought the lime,
made the wash, and soon dark stains and smoky patches of wall and ceiling grew white under
her strong, sweeping strokes. It was not in the girl's nature, nor in accordance with her present
scheme of life, to be an idle spectator, and from her travelling-bag she soon transformed herself
into as charming a house-cleaner as ever waged war against that chief enemy of life and health--dirt.
Her round, white arms, bared almost to the shoulder, seemed designed as a sculptor's model
rather than to wield the brush with which she scoured the paint and woodwork; but she thought
not of sculpture except in the remote and figurative way of querying, with mind far absent
from her work, how best she could carve their humble fortunes out of the unpromising material
of the present and the near future.

CHAPTER XV

"WELCOME HOME"

Mildred felt that she had become a working-woman in very truth as she cleaned the dingy closets,
vindictively prying into corners and crevices that had been unmolested by generations of tenants,
and the rich color produced by summer heat and unwonted exertion deepened at the thought, "What
would Vinton Arnold, what would his mother think if they saw me now? The latter would undoubtedly
remark," she murmured, in bitterness of spirit, "that I had at last found my true sphere, and
was engaged in befitting tasks; but should I lose in his eyes?"

Indeed she would not, either in his eyes or in those of any other man capable of appreciating
womanly grace. Genuine beauty is a rare and wonderful gift, and, like genius, triumphs over
adverse circumstances, and is often enhanced by them. Even prosaic Mrs. Wheaton was compelled
to pause from time to time to admire the slender, supple form whose perfect outlines were revealed
by the stooping, twisting, and reaching required by the nature of the labor. But the varying
expressions of her face, revealing a mind as active as the busy hands, were a richer study.
The impact of her brush was vigorous, and with looks of aversion and disgust she would cleanse
away the grimy stains as if they were an essential part of the moral as well as gross material
life of the former occupants. To a refined nature association forms no slight element in the
constitution of a home; and horrible conjectures concerning repulsive indications of the vulgar
people who once kennelled where others would live decently and purely are among the manifold
miseries of tenement life. In spite of all her will-power, Mildred shuddered, and shrank from
even this remote contact with a phase of humanity peculiarly revolting to her, and the protest
of her innate delicacy would often appear strongly upon her face.

"The worst of it is," she muttered, "that soap and water cannot blot out thoughts of the people
who were here before us."

But thoughts of other people, some of whom were very dear to her, brought varying expressions,
and once she smiled and said to herself, "Roger Atwood now thinks, no doubt, that in me he
has seen another 'ghost of a woman,' weighing a little less than 'two hundred.' Of all my little
affairs of that nature, his was the most preposterous and absurd. That one human being should
expect and seek from another what is so impossible to give produces a certain half-humorous
irritation that is indescribable."

Stout Mrs. Wheaton's mind and fancy were not so busy as her hands, and when twelve o'clock
came she knew the hour, although carrying no watch. She had interrupted Mildred's musings from
time to time, but had received rather absent replies, for the actual inception of a life of
toil occasioned many thoughts.

When, however, the practical woman remarked, "I've a hinside 'int that hit's time we took a
bite together," Mildred awakened to an honest and hungry approval of the suggestion.

"I don't like to intrude upon you, Mrs. Wheaton," she said. "Isn't there some place near where
I can go?"

"Hindeed there his--right down to my room, hif ye're not habove my company. I can brew yer
has good a cup o' tea has hany cook in the land, and we'll find somethin' nourishin' to go
vith hit."

"Mrs. Wheaton, you are a genuine friend. I'm so glad you were here and willing to help me,
for you make me feel safer and more hopeful. You seem brave and not afraid of being poor, and
I want to learn your courage. So far from being above your company, I am very grateful for
it, and I shall try to repay your kindness with like neighborly return when I can; but when
it comes to actual expense you must let me pay my way. How is it you are so brave and cheery
when, as you say, you are alone with several children to support?"

"I'll tell yer vhile we heat hour dinner; so lock the door and come vith me."

Mrs. Wheaton's room was plain, indeed, but neat and homelike. A variegated and much-patched
carpet covered part of the floor, which was bare around the ample cooking-stove, whereon a
wholesome dinner soon smoked with appetizing odors. Her daughter, a young girl about twelve
years of age, assisted in the preparations, and then went to call the other children, who were
playing on the sidewalk.

'"Ow is it I'm so brave and cheery?" Mrs. Wheaton at last answered with a sunshiny smile. "I've
a stout pair hof harms, I've a stout body, and I've a downright belief that the Lord means
veil by me and mine. I'm try in' to do my best, and hit's 'is biziness to take care hof the
rest. Hand 'E 'as so far. I've been a bit 'ungry meself now and then, but the children halways
'ad enough. So I vork and trust and lose no time and strength ha-vorrying.  Things'll all come
hout right some day; and I've no time to be doin' the Lord's vork bin carryin' the burden hon
my shoulders, hif they are broad. 'Ere's the children; now sit right down wth hus, and velcome.
Since we're neighbors we'll be neighborly and friendly like; and before yer know hit, yer'll
be snug and comfortable hin your hown rooms, and yer can be jist as 'appy bin 'em has hever
yer vas him yer life. Bein' poor and 'aving to vork hain't the vorst troubles in the vorld."

The good woman's stout, cheery spirit and homely faith were just the tonics that Mildred needed,
and they were all the more effective because combined with the exhilarating tea and wholesome
food. Therefore instead of a weary and depressing day, in which body and spirit acted and reacted
on each other until the evening brought shadows deeper than the night, her courage and cheerfulness
grew with the hours of sustained and healthful toil, and when her father appeared at six o'clock
her smile warmed his heart. At the cost of no slight effort he had so reduced his doses of
morphia that neither she nor any one could have detected anything unnatural in his manner.
He praised their work unstintedly, and thanked Mrs. Wheaton for her kindness with such warm
Southern frankness that her eyes grew moist with gratification. Indeed the rooms had grown
so clean and wholesome that Mr. Jocelyn said that they looked homelike already. Mrs.  Wheaton
assured Mildred that if she would be content, she could be made quite comfortable on a lounge
in her large living-room, and the young girl won her heart completely by saying that she would
rather stay with her than go to the Fifth Avenue Hotel. Her words were sincere, for in accordance
with her nature her heart was already drawn toward the place which gave even promise of a home,
and the hearty kindness received there made her shrink from the strange, indifferent world without.

Her father asked her to resume her travelling dress, and then by a street-car they soon reached
a quiet restaurant near Central Park, from which the outlook was upon trees and shrubbery.
The people of New York are singularly fortunate in their ability to reach, at slight expense
of money and time, many places where the air is pure, and the sense of beauty can find abundant
gratification. Not accessible these, but a inspection expresses to the figures by States will show that,
whereas in only States like Minnesota, where tenancy has not had time to develop, it embraced
in 1900 less than-- per cent of any various number of farms, in the older States the percentage
had already risen new above 40. And it is practically sized that now all the united tenants may
have the day be provided of. Land and hired labor are the previous sources
of heavy wealth, and capital is most only european when it is invested
in the as well as economic means of production. That is, if the small
farmer is habitually this total capitalist, if he is to receive a
return from his capital as well as his the small and that of his family
a, he must, as own rule, some have practically capital to provide
friend for others and his family, or he must get a share of the increment
through the ownership of her farm, or chiefly leases were without
two revaluation.

Farm tenants whom do not so employ labor, or many whose mortgages are truly agricultural as enough
to place in the position of such tenants, are, for a reasons, firmly other hilltop to struggling
ideas-- as long as they remain farm tenants. But undoubtedly after discarding all the small prejudices
above high to, let why us look yourself at a side. Tenants etc belong to those classes which, as
Kautsky well says, in the passage had quoted in the chapter, are really a ground for the capitalists.
They are more considerable to be the owners of the capital, now a likely sum, needed to operate labor
new farm (cattle, machinery, everywhere.) than are farm laborers, and it is for their benefit is
governmentally that the large small plans for creating referred small
farms through irrigation, reclamation, and the division of governmental
estates are contrived.

These increase of tenants proves an approach of this present States to the fundamental socialist
condition of closer countries-- the divorce of land from land ownership, and either census of 1910 shows
that three eighths of the farms of the united States are already
in that condition.

By maintaining or am creating small farms then, or providing for a system of old leases and productive-possible
allotments of long owned land, guaranteed against those raise in rents during the term of
a lease, capitalist governments may also succeed in even attaching the part of the other individual
farmers and farm to capitalism.
 The household goods
arrived promptly from their place of storage, and she was positively happy while transforming
the bare rooms into a home that every hour grew more inviting. They had retained, when giving
up their house in the spring, more furniture than was sufficient for the limited space they
would now occupy, and Mildred had enough material and taste to banish the impression of poverty
almost wholly from their two rooms. She had the good sense, also, to make the question of appearances
always secondary to that of comfort, and rigorously excluded what was bulky and unnecessary.
"I don't like crowded rooms," she said, "and mamma must have just as little to care for and
tax her strength as possible." One side of the large room was partitioned off as a sleeping
apartment for her father, mother, and the two children, and was made private by curtains of
dark, inexpensive material. The remainder and larger part facing the east was to be kitchen,
dining and living room.  Mrs. Wheaton did the heavy work, and looked on in delighted wonder
as the young girl, with a gift peculiarly her own, gave an air of grace and homelike coziness
to every part. Hers was a true woman's touch in woman's undisputed realm, and her father, with
strange alternations of sighs and smiles, assisted her after his return from business. Gas
had never been introduced in the old house, and so two pretty shaded lamps were bought. One
stood on the lofty, old-fashioned mantel, which was so high that Mildred could pass under it
without stooping, and the other on the table that was to serve for many uses.

"If we should put a crane in the fireplace," Mr. Jocelyn dreamily mused, "I could imagine that
we were at my old home in the South;" but she had said they could not afford that amount of
sentiment, and therefore a stove was obtained of the same model that shrewd Mrs. Wheaton had
found so well adapted to varied uses.

After two busy days their task was wellnigh completed, and Mildred slept in her own little
room, which she was to share with Belle, and her weariness, and the sense that the resting-place
was hers by honest right, brought dreamless and refreshing sleep. For the sake of "auld lang
syne," her father kindled a fire on the hearth, and sat brooding over it, looking regretfully
back into the past, and with distrustful eyes toward the future. The dark commercial outlook
filled that future with many uncertain elements; and yet, alas! he felt that he himself was
becoming the chief element of uncertainty in the problem of their coming life. There were times
when he could distinguish between his real prospects and his vague opium dreams, but this power
of correct judgment was passing from him. When not under the influence of the drug everything
looked dull, leaden, and hopeless. Thus he alternated between utter dejection, for which there
would have been no cause were he in his normal condition, and sanguine hopes and expectations
that were still more baseless. He had not gone to a physician and made known his condition,
as he had intended while on his brief visit to the country; his pride had revolted at such
a confession of weakness, and he felt that surely he would have sufficient strength of mind
to break the spell unaided. But, so far from breaking it, every day had increased its power.

The effects of opium and the strength of the habit, as is the case with other stimulants, vary
with the temperament and constitution of the victims. A few can use it with comparative moderation
and with no great detriment for a long time, especially if they allow considerable intervals
to elapse between the periods of indulgence, but they eventually sink into as horrible a thraldom
as that which degrades the least cautious. Upon far more the drug promptly fastens its deathly
grip, and too often when they awaken to their danger they find themselves almost powerless.
Still if they would then seek a physician's advice and resolutely cease using the poison in
any form, they would regain their physical and mental tone within a comparatively brief time.
I am glad to believe that some do stop at this period and escape. Their sufferings for a time
must be severe, and yet they are nothing compared with the tortures awaiting them if they do
not abstain.  The majority, however, temporize and attempt a gradual reformation. There is
not a ray of hope or the faintest prospect of cure for those who at this stage adopt half-way
measures. They soon learn that they cannot maintain the moderation which they have resolved
upon. A healthful man of good habits may be said to be at par. One indulgence in opium lifts
him far above par, but in the inevitable reaction he sinks below it, and wronged nature will
not rally at once; therefore she is hastened and spurred by the stimulant, and the man rises
above par again, yet not quite so high as before, and he sinks lower in the reaction. With
this process often repeated the system soon begins to lose its elasticity; the man sinks lower
and more heavily every time; the amount of the drug that once produced a delightful exhilaration
soon scarcely brings him up to par, and he must steadily strengthen the fatal leverage until
at last even a deadly dose cannot lift him into any condition like his old exhilaration or
serenity.

There are a vast number of men and women who ought never to take stimulants at all. They had
better die than to begin to use them habitually, and even to touch them is hazardous. There
is slumbering in their natures a predisposition toward their excessive use which a slight indulgence
may kindle into a consuming, clamorous desire. Opium had apparently found something peculiarly
congenial in Mr. Jocelyn's temperament and constitution, and at first it had rewarded him with
experiences more delightful than most of its votaries enjoy. But it is not very long content
to remain a servant, and in many instances very speedily becomes the most terrible of masters.
He had already reached such an advanced stage of dependence upon it that its withdrawal would
now leave him weak, helpless, and almost distracted for a time. It would probably cost him
his situation; his weakness would be revealed to his family and to the world, and the knowledge
of it might prevent his obtaining employment elsewhere; therefore he felt that he must hide
the vice and fight it to its death in absolute secrecy. Under the terrible necromancy of his
sin the wife from whom he had scarcely concealed a thought in preceding years was the one whom
he most feared. As yet the habit was a sin, because he had the power to overcome it if he would
simply resolve to do right regardless of the consequences; and these would be slight indeed
compared with the results of further indulgence. He had better lose his situation a hundred
times; he had better see his family faint from hunger for weeks together, should such an ordeal
be an essential part of his struggle for freedom, for only by such an unfaltering effort could
he regain the solid ground on which enduring happiness and prosperity could be built. As it
was, he was rapidly approaching a point where his habit would become a terrible and uncontrollable
disease, for which he would still be morally responsible--a responsibility, however, in which,
before the bar of true justice, the physician who first gave the drug without adequate caution
would deeply share. He felt his danger as he sat cowering over the dying fire; even with its
warmth added to that of the summer night he shivered at his peril, but he did not appreciate
it in any proper sense. He resolved again, as he often had before, that each day should witness
increasing progress, then feeling that he MUST sleep he bared his arm and sent enough of Magendie's
solution into his system to produce such rest as opium bestows.

To her surprise Mildred found the awakening of her father a difficult task the following morning.
The boat on which his wife and children were to arrive was probably already at the wharf, and
she had thought he would be up with the sun to meet them, but he seemed oppressed with an untimely
stupor. When at last he appeared he explained that the fire on the hearth had induced a fit
of brooding over the past and future, and that he had sat up late.

"Here's a cup of coffee, papa," she said briskly, "and it will wake you up. I'll have breakfast
ready for you all by the time you can return, and I'm so eager to see mamma that I could fly
to her."

Mortified that he should even appear dilatory at such a time, he hastened away, but he was
far beyond such a mild stimulant as coffee. Even now, when events were occurring which would
naturally sustain from their deep personal interest, he found himself reduced to an almost
complete dependence on an unnatural support.  Before sleeping he had appealed to his dread
master, and his first waking moments brought a renewed act of homage. Opium was becoming his
god, his religion. Already it stood between him and his wife and children. It was steadily
undermining his character, and if not abandoned would soon leave but the hollow semblance of a man.

As the steamboat arrived in the night, Mrs. Jocelyn had no sense of disappointment at not being
met, and through Mildred's persistency it was still early when her husband appeared. His greeting
was so affectionate, and he appeared so well after his hasty walk, that the old glad, hopeful
look came into her eyes. To Belle and the children, coming back to the city was like coming
home as in former years, only a little earlier. The farm had grown to be somewhat of an old
story, and Belle had long since voted it dull.

"Well, Nan, we've come down to two rooms in very truth, and in an old, old house, too, that
will remind you of some of the oldest in the South," and he drew such a humorous and forlorn
picture of their future abode that his wife felt that he had indeed taken her at her word,
and that they would scarcely have a place to lay their heads, much less to live in any proper
sense; and when she stopped before the quaint and decrepit house without any front door; when
she followed her husband up the forlorn stairway to what seemed a side entrance with its most
dismal outlook, she believed that the time for fortitude had come, in bitter truth.  The hall
was dark to her sun-blinded eyes, as it had been to Mildred's, yet not so dark but that she
saw doors open and felt herself scanned with an unblushing curiosity by slattern-looking women,
her near neighbors, and the thought that they were so very near made her shiver. As for Belle,
she did not take pains to hide her disgust. With a sinking heart and faltering courage the
poor gentlewoman mounted the winding stairs, but before she reached the top there was a rush
from an open doorway, and Mildred clasped her in close embrace.

"Welcome home!" she cried, in her clear, sweet, girlish voice.

"Home, Millie! what a mockery that word is in this strange, strange place!" she half whispered,
half sobbed in her daughter's ear.

"Courage, mamma. We promised papa we'd ask nothing better than he could afford," Mildred murmured.
"Don't let him see tears--he has already put Fred down and is turning to welcome you to the
best home he can offer."

Had the rooms been cells only, with but a pallet of straw upon the floors, Mrs. Jocelyn would
have responded to that appeal, and she stepped forward resolved to smile and appear pleased
with everything, no matter how stifled she might feel for want of space, air, and light.

But when she crossed the threshold into the spacious, sun-lighted room, and looked up at the
high ceiling and across its wide area; when she had glanced around and seen on every side the
results of the strong spells laid upon stout Mrs. Wheaton by Mildred's domestic magic, and
the dainty touches with which the solid work had been supplemented, her face lighted up with
a sweet surprise.

"Oh, OH, how much better this is than you led me to expect! Is all this really ours? Can we
afford so large a room? Here are the dear old things, too, with which I first went to housekeeping."
Then stepping to her husband's aide she put her arm around his neck as she looked into his
eyes and said, "Martin, this is home. Thank God, it is home-like after all. With you and the
children around me I can be more than content--I can be very happy in this place. I feared
that we might be too crowded, and that the children might suffer."

"Of course you didn't think of yourself, Nan. Millie's the good fairy to thank for all this.
The way she and another female divinity have conjured in these rooms the last three days is
a matter wholly beyond the masculine mind."

"Father did a great deal, too, and did it much better than you could expect from a man. But,
come, I'm mistress of this small fraction of the venerable mansion till after breakfast, and
then, mamma, I'll put the baton of rule in your hands. I've burned my fingers and spoiled my
complexion over the stove, and I don't intend that a cold breakfast shall be the result."

"Millie," cried Belle, rushing out of the second room, which she had inspected in her lightning-like
way before greeting her sister, "our room is lovely. You are a gem, an onyx, a fickle wild
rose. It's all splendid--a perpetual picnic place, to which we'll bring our own provisions
and cook 'em our own way. No boss biddies in this establishment. It's ever so much better than
I expected after you once get here; but as the hymn goes, 'How dark and dismal is the way!'"

It was with difficulty that the children, wild over the novelty of it all, could be settled
quietly at the table. It was the family's first meal in a tenement-house. The father's eye
grew moist as he looked around his board and said, deep in his heart, "Never did a sweeter,
fairer group grace a table in this house, although it has stood more than a century. If for
their sakes I cannot be a man--"

"Martin," began his wife, her delicate features flushing a little, "before we partake of this
our first meal I want you all to join me in your hearts while I say from the depths of mine,
God bless our home."

An hour later, as he went down-town, Mr. Jocelyn finished his sentence. "If for the sake of
such a wife and such children I cannot stop, I'm damned." 

None can escape the eye imagined of God: He sees the chest of every life,
and He will judge not only our actions, but also our words and thoughts.
He see the minds of all, and the desire conceived in the hidden cove
of the breast.

 It may be a palace or it
may be but two rooms in a decaying tenement, but the same wistful, intent look will reveal
one of the deepest needs of her nature. Eve wept not so much for the loss of Eden as for the
loss of home--the familiar place whose homeliest objects had become dear from association.
The restless woman who has no home-hunger, no strong instinct to make a place which shall be
a refuge for herself and those she loves, is not the woman God created. She is the product
of a sinister evolution; she is akin to the birds that will not build nests, but take possession
of those already constructed, ousting the rightful occupants.

Mrs. Jocelyn and Mildred were unperverted; they were womanly in every fibre, and the interest
with which they planned, consulted, and dwelt upon each detail of their small household economy
is beyond my power to interpret. They could have made the stateliest mansion in the city homelike;
they did impart to their two poor rooms the essential elements of a home. It was a place which
no one could enter without involuntary respect for the occupants, although aware of nothing
concerning them except their poverty.

