This, by the laws of mind, is the nature of the process and it shows us what St. Paul means
when he speaks of Christ being formed in us (Gal. iv. 19) and what in another place he calls
being renewed in knowledge after the image of Him that created us (Col. iii. 10). It is a thoroughly
logical sequence of cause and effect, and what we require is to see more clearly the Law of
this sequence and use it intelligently--that is why St. Paul says it is being "renewed in knowledge":
it is a New Knowledge, the recognition of principles which we had not previously apprehended.
Now the fact which, in our past experience, we have not grasped is that the human mind forms
a new point of departure for the work of the Creative Spirit; and in proportion as we see this
more and more clearly, the more we shall find ourselves entering into a new order of life in
which we become less and less subject to the old limitations. This is not a reward arbitrarily
bestowed upon us for holding dogmatically to certain mere verbal statements, but it is the
natural result of understanding the supreme law of our own being. On its own plane it is as
purely scientific as the law of chemical reaction; only here we are not dealing with the interaction
of secondary causes but with the Self-originating action of Spirit. Hence a new force has to
be taken into account which does not occur in physical science, the power of Feeling. Thought
creates form, but it is feeling that gives vitality to thought. Thought without feeling may
be constructive as in some great engineering work, but it can never be creative as in the work
of the artist or musician; and that which originates within itself a new order of causation
is, so far as all pre-existing forms are concerned, a creation ex nihilo, and is therefore
Thought expressive of Feeling. It is this indissoluble union of Thought and Feeling that distinguishes
creative thought from merely analytical thought and places it in a different category; and
therefore if we are to afford a new starting-point for carrying on the work of creation it
must be by assimilating the feeling of the Originating Spirit as part and parcel of its thought--it
is that entering into the Mind of the Spirit of which I spoke in the first address.

Now the images in the Mind of the Spirit must necessarily be GENERIC. The reason for this is
that by its very nature the Principle of Life must be prolific, that is, tending to Multiplicity,
and therefore the original Thought-image must be fundamental to whole races, and not exclusive
to particular individuals. Consequently the images in the Mind of the Spirit must be absolute
types of the true essentials of the perfect development of the race, just what Plato meant
by architypal ideas. This is the perfect subsistence of the thing in the thought. Therefore
it is that our evolution as centres of CREATIVE activity, the exponents of new laws, and through
them of new conditions, depends on our realizing in the Divine Mind the architype of mental
perfection, at once as thought and feeling. But when we find all this in the Divine Mind, do
we not meet with an infinite and glorious Personality? There is nothing lacking of all that
we can understand by Personality, excepting outward form; and since the very essence of telepathy
is that it dispenses with the physical presence, we find ourselves in a position of interior
communion with a Personality at once Divine and Human. This is that Personality of the Spirit
which St. John saw in the apocalyptic vision, and which by the very conditions of the case
is the Alpha and Omega of Humanity.

