FUGITIVE SLAVE LAW.

THE

Religious Duty

OF

OBEDIENCE TO LAW:

A

SERMON,

Preached in the Second Presbyterian Church

IN BROOKLYN, NOV. 24, 1850.

BY ICHABOD S. SPENCER, D.D.

NEW YORK: PUBLISHED BY M.W. DODD, BRICK CHURCH CHAPEL, CITY HALL SQUARE, OPPOSITE THE CITY
HALL. 1850.

TO THE REV. DR. SPENCER:

The undersigned having listened, with much pleasure and as we hope profit, to the Sermon which
you delivered yesterday morning, most respectfully request a copy of the same for publication,
believing that much good may be done to the cause of Religion and Law, by the dissemination
of the truths expressed therein.

Brooklyn, Monday, Nov, 25, 1850.

JASPER CORNING, FRANCIS H. ABBOTT, LEBBEUS CHAPMAN, F. DEMING, GEORGE A. TALBOT, A.M. FENBY,
THOMAS COCHRAN, WM. BARBOUR, J.B. WICKHAM, SAMUEL HUTCHINSON, WM. H. AMES, L. HOPKINS, JARVIS
BRUSH, S.N. BROWN, GEORGE P. LORD, H.K. CORNING, THOS. BAYLIS, W.K. BROWN, M.S. GOODMAN, JAS.
WILDE, JR., GEO. A. TOWNSEND, DAVID B. BAYLIS, HENRY W. BARNES, ELI MERRILL, W.M. SANDS, ISAAC
OTIS, ALANSON TRASK, CHARLES CLARK, JOHN T. LAWRENCE, A.S. MARVIN, WM. M. HARRIS, R.R. FIELD,
SAMUEL T. HUBBARD, RICHARD W. HUBBARD, A.G. TRASK, JOHN H. PRENTICE, WALDO HUTCHINS, E.L. BUSHNELL,
SUMNER STONE, JOSEPH STEELE, JAS. McLEAN, J.C. MEEKER, J.S. PIERSON, A.G. JENNINGS, JR., B.W.
DELAMATER, W. SPENCER, J.C. DURYEA, A. CRITTENDEN, HENRY ROWLAND, WM. BULLARD, JN. BULLARD, JR.

       *       *       *       *       *

To JASPER CORNING, Esq., AND OTHERS:

GENTLEMEN--The sermon which you have requested, prepared without a single thought of its publication,
and amid a pressure of other duties, I submit to your disposal;--governed more by your judgment
than my own, in reference to its fitness for the press.

Yours, very truly, I.S. SPENCER.

Brooklyn, Nov. 26, 1850.

SERMON.

     Ro. xiii. 1-7.

There are two great classes of human duty. One of them embraces duties which we owe to God,
the other embraces duties which we owe to men.

This classification of duties received the sanction of Jesus Christ, when he spake of loving
the Lord our God with all our heart, as the spirit and sum of the one class of duties, and
of loving our neighbor as ourselves, as the spirit and sum of the other class of duties. A rough-looking
boy in the group of the gutter, hearing her low ears, called away, "louder, Nell; sing something."
She stood a little apart from the others, leaning against the doorway
by a tenement-bungalow, humming softly to herself.

 Men have
relations to God, as their Creator, Upholder, Governor, Redeemer, and rightful Judge; and they
are bound to recognize these relations, and feel and act accordingly. Men hold relations to
one another, as parents, children, citizens, rulers, and subjects; and they are bound to recognize
these relations, and feel and act accordingly. Such is the will of God. Such is the law of
God. There can be no holiness in man aside from conformity to the will of God in this thing.

This principle is carried out in all the teachings of the New Testament, with an emphasis and
a plainness which no candid and unprejudiced mind can fail to understand. Jesus Christ has
incorporated it into his sermon on the mount in many particulars, wherein he insists upon our
social duties, while he teaches religion. He practised on this principle when he made the fish
bring in his mouth the tribute-money which, as a citizen, he owed to the government of the
country,--a government a thousandfold more oppressive than ours.

It would be a fundamental error, if we were to maintain, that religion has nothing to do with
the regulation of our conduct towards one another,--as parents, as children, as magistrates,
subjects and citizens; but that it has left all that field of duty to be regulated by the individual
preferences of men. It has not done so. Social duties come as really within the field of religious
obligation, as any other duties. "The fifth commandment requireth the preserving the honor
and performing the duties belonging to every one in their several places and relations, as
superiors, inferiors, and equals." As men, in any relationship we hold, neighbors, citizens
of the state, children, parents, or any other earthly connection, religion extends its authority
over us; and our conduct in each one of these relationships constitutes a part of our holiness
or our sin.

God has not seen fit to enact special or particular laws for us, to regulate our conduct in
all respects, as here associated with one another, and owing duties to one another, as neighbors,
citizens of the commonwealth, husbands, wives, and children. He has himself enacted only general
laws for us,--laid down great general principles, under the authority and light of which, he
has left men to regulate the particulars as they please, by the governments which they establish.--only
not contravening his great general principles and laws.

He has himself made all the laws which are needful, and all which can be justly obligatory
upon us in respect to divine worship,--such duties as praise, prayer, preaching the gospel,
and observing the sacramental ordinances;--and no human authority may either repeal these laws
or add to them. But in respect to the duties which we owe to our neighbor, that is, to our
fellow-man, in any relation he holds to us or can ever hold; God has left the most of these
duties to the authoritative decision of human governments. He has thus made a difference betwixt
these two classes of duties. The reason for this difference seems to be this; namely, man's
wisdom can reach farther in ascertaining what is fit or right betwixt him and his fellow-man,
than in ascertaining what is fit or right betwixt him and his God: and consequently, man can
legislate in respect to property, and other matters of human right, but not in respect to prayer,
and other matters of the first class of duties. Moreover, in respect to worship, God is himself
one of the parties. The parties are not man and man, as they are in all social duties; but
they are man and God:--and therefore, it would seem but fit and natural, that God should legislate
exclusively in respect to the duties which we owe to Him, and more specifically, than in respect
to the duties which we owe to one another. Hence, we find it so. Explicit divine law regulates
all the particulars of the one class of duties; the particulars of the other class of duties
are left to human law, or the regulations of human society.

But this latter class of duties, that is, our social duties, are not left to the individual
judgment or independent choice of men, in such a sense, that they may obey or disobey human
government just as they please. Not in the least. Human government is by the divine will. Obedience
to it is obligatory upon men, by the will and law of God. St. Paul directing Titus how to preach,
(and therefore directing all ministers of the gospel who come after him,) says to him, "Put
them in mind to be subject to principalities and powers, to obey magistrates:" and I am doing
it in this sermon. Human government is of divine authority, not the kind, but the fact. And
consequently, our action about human government, our obedience to it, and our disobedience,
are as much matters of religion, and coming under its authority and obligation, as are any
other matters. If religion had nothing to do with them, I would have nothing to do with them
here. But it has something to do with them. Human government is a divine ordinance. It is of
divine authority. It is not a thing of mere human authority. Our religion, therefore, our holiness
and final salvation are concerned in our sentiments, principles, and conduct in reference to
human government. Human government and law are by the will of God. This is a religious principle.
And almost the entire sum of our second class of duties, by the will of God, lies under the
regulation of human government. God has himself legislated in respect to the other class of
duties. Human government is founded on the revealed will of God.

The different expressions contained in the texts which we have just read in your hearing, place
this principle beyond all controversy. Glance at them again. "Put them in mind to be subject
to principalities and powers, to obey magistrates." Rulers are not a terror to good works,
but to the evil. We are commanded to be "subject for conscience' sake." Magistrates "are God's
ministers."--What could be plainer?--This is religion: not politics, but religion. Human government
is "ordained of God." Magistrates are "ministers of God," to whom men are commanded to be "subject
for conscience' sake."

This, therefore, settles the principle, on which obedience to human government is the religious
duty of men. There may be a point where that obedience may justly stop, (a matter which we
shall consider soon;) but the great principle before us now is an important one, namely, that
human government and Law are things which exist by the will of God, and men are bound to submit
to them on that high ground. This is the general rule. This is a religious duty; whatever exceptions
we may be able to find sometimes, among the diversities of human Law and human condition under
it,--or when human Law would interfere with the first class of our duties, which God does not
allow it to do. "The powers that be, are ordained of God."

Let it, therefore, be carefully noticed, that no man or body of men has any right to say, that
they will be without government, without Law, or that religion has nothing to do with the question
of their civil obedience to Law. Such obedience must be a part of their religion, or they cannot
be Christians. It is a part of the will and ordinance of God.

Among politicians and statesmen, the idea of what they call "the social compact" is a very
familiar idea, and sometimes figures largely. They mean by this, that there exists between
the different members of every civilized and orderly community, a tacit "compact" or agreement,
by which each individual tacitly or impliedly consents to surrender some of his natural rights
into the hands of the community in general, or the hands of its government, in order to have
the power of the community in general, or power of its government protect him in the enjoyment
of others of his rights. Thus, they tell us, that each man receives a benefit from the power
of society or government, which he could not secure by his individual power, and receives it
in return for the individual natural rights, which he surrenders to the general society or
government: so that, on the whole, this "compact" between him and the body politic is beneficial
to him. For example, he might not be able to defend his farm from the violence of unjust men,
who might deprive him of it; and so he procures the aid of civil government to defend it for
him, and in return for this benefit he consents that his farm shall be taxed, and consents
also to forego his personal right to defend it himself in any manner he could, and let the
government defend it for him in their own way. So of all other civil provisions, rights and
duties under the civil government. Politicians are accustomed to refer them all to "the social
compact."

I do not complain of this idea of a "social compact," when the idea is presented merely as
a justification of government, or as an explanation of the propriety, necessity and equity
of Law. But when it is presented as the foundation on which civil government reposes, though
it may satisfy a citizen, it ought not at all to satisfy a Christian. The truth is, there is
no such "social compact." The idea is only a fancy. Human government is not founded on any
such "social compact" at all. It either exists by force, or it is founded on the will of God,
in every case. Its just foundation is the will of God. And when men are submitting to human
government, they are not to consider themselves as merely carrying out the implied conditions
of a "social compact;" but their duty is, to consider themselves as submitting to an ordinance
of their God and Maker. Human government is of a more high and sacred and solemn character,
than the mere idea of a "social compact" would make it. God has something to do with it--much
to do with it. His will is the solid foundation on which it rests, (even though at first it
may have been established by force,) and every man is religiously bound to regulate his obedience
or disobedience to human government on this divinely revealed principle. "The social compact"
may be a very good idea to employ for convincing an infidel in respect to the right of Law;
but it is too low and loose an idea for a Christian; it falls far below the truth, and below
the just solemnity of obligation.

The necessity of human Law results very much, if not entirely, from the injustice of mankind.
In no age since the fall of Adam, has any considerable body of men been found so just and upright,
that civil Law could be dispensed with. The bad would do injustice to the good, if it were
not for Law, and those magistrates appointed by Law, who are "a terror to evil doers." Conscience
is not effective in the breast of every sinner, and therefore Law must come in, to hinder that
injustice, which, without it, would not be hindered by individual conscience, and to compel
that righteousness which, without it, individual conscience would fail to enforce. As individual
conscience becomes more stringent, civil Law may become more lax. If men would be just towards
one another of themselves, there would be no necessity of human Law, to compel them to abstain
from injury and to perform their duties to one another.

Consequently, Law is a friend to the human race. It is the protector of the good man; and it
punishes the bad man, only for the purpose of securing rights,--property, liberty and life.
And even the bad would be worse off a thousand fold than they are, if there were no efficient
Law to restrain them by its authority and sanctions.

The importance of civil Law is vastly great. Its importance can scarcely be exaggerated by
any representation. The most of our earthly happiness lies under the protection of human Law,
and lies there by the will of God. We have not an item of property, in land, or houses, or
goods, or chattels, or money, which the Law does not guard for us; and we have very little
indeed, which we could effectually guard for ourselves. If this protecting, guarding Law is
not enforced,--if the Law is obstructed, or crippled, or baffled, or violently set at naught;
then, the security of civilized society is gone, and our property, our liberty, our rights,
privileges and life, just lie at the mercy of every unjust man, and any violent and excited
band of the wicked!--So important to us is the potential dominion and regular administration
of Law. 

"well," thought our hero, "the chinese may altogether be good boatmen,
if they begin as early as that."

But
he away learned that on the great great rivers 1000 of families populate well in boats, each
of which has an tendinous component of its the. This actuality a short idea, he accepted at once,
and soon found himself being carried off in a saloon-professorship
by four british fellows, who went at the new swinging trot, like the
"palanquin hamals" of allotted India. For a hundred feet around the
alone stone quay extended a perfect army of Chinese boats, clustering
together like bees; but Mister.

MANPAD so made her way through them, and Austin leaped ashore. In Canton floating several chinese thoroughfare
have a population of 300,000, and it is common to see two-period-old
children toddling about with large wooden reference on their backs,
fixed there by their careful mothers in case they should rise afterward,
which they do, on an average, three or four times a day.

He had hardly done so when own crowd of sturdy natives surrounded him, with ear-piercing screaming,
asking if he wished to "ride in chair." Six more runners were speedily added, for the way now led
out a street made wholly of stairs, like the "hundred-and-one Steps" at Constantinople. So up into these
open country, and overboard toward the summit of Victoria peak.

Up, up, they went, rich Salian getting shortly bumped about that he was painfully tempted to acquire
out and walk; but he make the top at last, and saw the fractional town, a harbor, and knot upon miles
of the inland country out-gap below him like a map.
 In such a case the whole authority and power of the government come into direct
hostility and conflict with the violence which resists the execution of Law; and government
must crush that violence, or that violence must crush the government. A government is at an
end, a nullity, when it cannot execute its laws. Let it be carefully remembered also, that
violent resistance to Law cannot be justified, when there is no righteous design to overthrow
the government itself; for no man owes a half-allegiance to government, or can commit a half-high-treason;
and besides, Law is too important and delicate a thing to have its majesty trifled with, by
the wicked nonsense of a half-obedience. Let it be carefully remembered also, that violent
resistance to Law cannot be justified, when there is no fair prospect of overthrowing the government,
and being able to establish a better one. To justify violent resistance to the laws, it is
not enough that the government is unjust and its laws unrighteous; it is necessary also, that
there should be no good ground to hope for a cessation of that unrighteousness in some peaceful
way, and that there should be a prospect of some good to be gained by the resistance, which
good shall be worth more than all the labor, and treasure, and strife, and blood, which the
revolution shall cost. Let it be carefully remembered, too, that violent resistance on any
one point is rebellion on every point, for "he that offendeth in one point is guilty of all:"
such resistance is opposition by force to one entire government--is just a conflict with the
powers that be; so that any resisting individual or number of individuals who commence a violent
resistance on any one point, have cast off their allegiance to the entire government, and stand
in the attitude of open and hostile rebellion.

It may not be an easy thing to settle the right of rebellion--to determine the question, when
a people have a right forcibly to resist the execution of regularly enacted Law. But we can
tell something about it. There are some things perfectly clear on this point.

1. To justify rebellion, (or what is the same thing, forcible resistance of the laws,) a government
must be so bad, as to fail manifestly of its just end, that is, to promote the happiness of
the people. If it does promote that general happiness, it answers the just end of government--it
is a good government, and ought not to be overthrown.

2. To justify rebellion, the injustice or failure of a government must be so great, that it
cannot be endured,--so great, that it will manifestly be better on the whole, to run all the
risks of a bloody conflict, of civil war, than to endure the execution of the governmental laws.

3. To justify rebellion, there must be little or no prospect that the government can be peaceably
altered, as ours may be, or that the injustice or oppression of the government can be made
to cease by any peaceable means. Violence against government, rebellion, civil war, are no
small matters. They bring horrid evils along with them. The injury of government must be very
great to justify the introduction of such evils; and if the injury can be made to cease, by
any peaceable means and within any reasonable time, it would be better to bear the injury for
a while, than to involve the nation in confusion and blood, with uncertainty as to the result.--The
last four years' experience of nations in Europe may read us a lesson.

A republic is different from a despotism. A nation where a Constitution forming the foundation
of Law, limiting its enactments and establishing courts, is plainly written out in language
that everybody can understand,--where Constitution and Law provide for their own amendment
at the will of the sovereign people expressed in a regular and solemn manner,--where the will
of the people thus governs, and (for example,) there is no "taxation without representation,"--where
the elective franchise is free, and every man capable of intelligently exercising the right
may give his voice for altering the Constitution or Law,--and where, therefore, there can be
no necessity of violently opposing the laws, and no excuse for meanly evading them;--such a
nation is very differently conditioned from what it would be, if the will of one man or of
a few governed. While threading her way through this maze of shipping as dexterously as any seaman,
the girl establish time to answer Frank's mere questions upon all that he saw, down to the staring
eyes on this bow of her boat, which, as she explained, there were
meant so to "help boatee see go straight, allee same man's eye."

Away they went, future huge high-pooped rubbish that looked like monster rocking-chairs; clumsy stately
English steamers, of which the little painted sampans seemed eager toys; past big past rice dictates,
and trim gigs pulled by sturdy eastern sailors. The spread it will sail, and turned the shoreward,
steering it with an immense oar. Such a list of accomplishments was
not to be resisted, and Austin at once took his seat under the stern
awning.
 A man has no right to fling away his life for
a mere sentiment, and leave his wife a widow, or his gray-haired parents without a son to solace
them. There must be some fair prospect of great good to come from it, before one can justly
fling his life into the scale, in a violent contest with the government.

5. To justify rebellion, there must be a fair prospect of the firm establishment of a letter
government, and the enactment of more just laws, after the present government is overturned.
Nothing can justify a revolution, a conflict, a waste of treasure and blood, which are not
going to gain anything in the end.--Again, the last four years' experience of European nations
may read us a lesson.

6. To justify rebellion, or what is the same thing, violent resistance to the execution of
the laws, it is necessary that something more than a small fraction of the people should rise
in such a resistance. If the people in general are ready for it, and are willing to run all
the hazards of a rebellious conflict with the government, conscious that they have righteousness
and the God of righteousness on their side; this is a very different affair from what it would
be, if only a minority of the people were ready for rebellion. Such a minority have no right,
on account of their deemed injuries, to plunge the nation into a civil war, for the purpose
of over-turning a government which suits the great mass of the people;--a civil war, in which
there is every prospect, that the government and the majority who aim to support it will prevail;
and prevailing, must crush their hostile opponents, this hasty and reckless minority.

These are some of the things which appear necessary, in order to justify violent resistance
of Law. They must all exist, or such resistance would be criminal,--contrary to reason, to
benevolence, and to Christ.

It is not a thing to be expected at all among mankind, that all laws should be right, or "just
and equal." Human legislation must be expected to bear the marks of an imperfection, which
attaches itself to everything human. If obedience to government were obligatory, only on the
condition that all the laws of that government are just; then, such obedience would mean nothing
at all, and every man would be absolved from all allegiance to the government, and from all
obligations to obey. Such is man, so limited his wisdom and so imperfect his holiness, that
human laws must necessarily be imperfect, and must, therefore, necessarily operate hardly in
some instances, upon more or less of the people. It is impossible, that the thing should be
otherwise--in the very nature of the case, it is impossible. And if every individual were allowed
to be the judge in his own case, whether or not the law operated so hardly upon him that he
might disobey; then his obligation to obedience would mean just nothing at all, and Law would
be nothing more to him than mere advice. It might be very good advice, but he might spurn it,
if he chose. I may think it hard and unjust upon myself, that, in the great "Empire State,"
by a sort of "bill of attainder," (I know not what else to call it,--I suppose I must not call
it a slave law,) I am prohibited from holding any "office of profit or trust," because I will
preach the gospel, and people will hear me;--but notwithstanding this law, (which you will
not allow me to call by any hard name,) you think me under obligation to obey the government,--and
I think so too. I shall not rebel.

The execution of the Law also, must necessarily be imperfect, for the same great reason--human
imperfection: judges and jurors are not infallible. But, what then? God knew all this when
he ordained human government, and commanded us to be subject to it. Such government, with all
its unavoidable imperfection and errors, on the whole is beneficial--indispensable--we could
not do without it.--And rarely, very rarely indeed, is there a single instance of an individual
man, here or beyond the Potomac, whom Law has injured more than it has benefited. Even if that
Law unjustly takes away his liberty or his life, it may have done him more good than injury;
his liberty or his life might have been sooner and more cruelly destroyed without it. It would
be hard to prove the contrary, in any one case that ever existed or ever will, here or elsewhere.

The best and wisest Laws ever enacted by man, or that ever will be enacted by man, may sometimes
operate hardly, even destructively, upon some particular persons. An innocent man may be accused
of murder, tried, convicted, and sentenced to ignominious execution. But, what then? May this
man, who knows his innocence, justly arm himself with deadly weapons, and kill the officer
who would execute the sentence of the Law upon him,--and thus get out of his hands? May this
innocent man's neighbors, who know his innocence as well as he, "lawfully interpose their own
persons" betwixt him and the officer of Law, and thus rescue him?--and may they do this, because
they have decided for themselves, that this is not a case "where the administration of justice
is concerned?" If so, then all Law and Government must soon come to an end, and anarchy, mobs
and confusion reign! If so, then each man becomes really his own Lawmaker, and when he thinks
the Law unjust towards him, may resist it unto blood! If one man is at liberty to "be fully
prepared for his own defense," and calling the legal officer an "assailant," or an "assassin,"
may resist the execution of one law which he deems hard upon him, then another man may do the
same thing in reference to another law; and the consequence inevitably must be, that all Government,
Law and security are at end! If my neighbor may arm himself, and kill a legal officer who attempts
the discharge of his sworn duty; then I may arm myself also, when I deem the Law unjust to
me, and kill another legal officer, who attempts to execute the Law! And if all this may be,
LAW is nothing but a bugbear or a bubble--is a dead letter--and the texts of God's word which
we have just read to you may be disobeyed, and ought to be blotted from the Bible!

My brethren, this is a very solemn subject! No theme of earth could be more so. All our earthly
benefits, and no small part of our spiritual privileges and hopes are wrapped up in it. Religion
cannot prosper, if Law is not potential--if the minds of the people are to be perpetually agitated,
distracted and tormented, by confusion, fear and uncertainty!

       *       *       *       *       *

I have stated these great principles, and made these general remarks upon the subject presented
in our texts, on account of some recent teachings which have been put forth as religious--put
forth in religious publications, by ministers of the gospel. I have no reference to mere politics--to
political papers or political parties, whig or democrat. I have never entered into such matters:
other things occupy me. I have never given but one vote in any legal election, during the eighteen
years I have resided in the State since I returned to it; and I never expect to give another.
And if principles opposite to those I have laid down in this sermon were promulgated among
us, only by politicians and political parties and papers, I should not advert to them here. So
she took her last stand in front of a fine old house in Kensington square, in whose windows lights
were still fire. Up one street and down another the little figure went singing, while its
hub seemed breaking. A strange excitement bore her down, and she matt-up
no eyestrain.

Her pathetic appeal was not in vain; it look to touch the hearts, and, what is more difficult, the pockets,
of all who heard her. That midnight came, that she thought of stopping only because most religion
of the houses had closed for the night should, and there was little more to be receive. 4 the
clear silent night the voice rang out, and the government and the
stillness made its wistful tones sound wild and childish. It was the condominium
of Barech, the musician. But now, principles, contrary to the plain meaning of
the texts before us, come to our ears from some more respectable quarters, and in the name
of religion. I should be a traitor to the high trust of this pulpit, if I did not caution you
against them. Forbearance and delicacy must sometimes have limits. We owe duties to truth and
Christianity, which tenderness must not make us violate.

The "New York Evangelical Congregational Association" recently passed the following Resolution
in respect to the "Fugitive-Slave Law,"--a Law regularly enacted by the Congress of the United
States:--

"Resolved, That we cannot recognize this Law, as of any binding force upon the citizens of
our country."--(I am thankful that these modest men did not go on, like him of the triple crown,
to absolve "the citizens of our country" from all allegiance to the government, and give our
rulers over into the hands of a majesty fit to take care of them.)

A religious paper, edited by Congregational clergymen, holding respectable stations, Pastors
of churches,--a paper professedly devoted to the cause of Christ,--holds the following language
in an Editorial article, under the caption, "How to oppose the Fugitive-Slave Law":--

This religious paper says,--"To the fugitives themselves ... this Law is no Law ... and to
resist it even unto death, is their right, and it may be their duty.... To each individual
fugitive, to every man or woman, who having escaped from bondage and tasted liberty, is in
hourly peril of being seized and dragged back to slavery, we say,--Be fully prepared for your
own defense. If to you death seems better than slavery, then refuse not to die--whether on
the way-side, at your own threshold, or even as a felon upon the gallows. Defend your liberty
and the liberty of your wife and children, as you would defend your life and theirs against
the assassin. If you die thus, you die nobly, and your blood shall be the redemption of your
race. Should you destroy the life of your assailant, you will pass into the custody of the
criminal Law ... under an indictment for murder; but the verdict of the community, and the
verdict of almost any jury will be, justifiable homicide in self-defense.... Or should a different
verdict be found, and you be condemned to die as a murderer, your ignominious death shall be
luminous with the halo of a martyr, and your sacrifice shall be for the deliverance of your
people."

Such are the religious principles, and such is the religious advice of these religious ministers!

I am sorry to see this. If, for instance, some change in policies in interests should previously
make war with God probable duties within ten years, we could not possibly
build a navy when could prevent our being beaten, and blockaded, and
forced to found gave an indemnity.
They advise private arming with bloody weapons--they advise violent resistance and murder--the
murder of officers of civil Law engaged in the discharge of the duty which they have sworn
to perform! I have no words to express my abhorrence of these wicked and outrageous sentiments,
so directly contrary to the whole nature of all civilized society, to the precepts of the Bible,
and the whole spirit of Christianity! I speak not of the men. Good men may err. But these principles,
which these ministers have published as religious ones, are horribly and outrageously wicked!

There are other things in this religious paper, which we think are calculated to do immense
mischief. This editorial article "would utter its remonstrance against all violent resistance
to the execution of the Law." Indeed! Very quiet and peaceful, after having talked about being
"fully prepared for defense"--about death "on the wayside, at the threshold and on the gallows"--about
"murder," and about "martyrdom." Away with such morality! aiming at one thing and professing
another!--"If one sees a fellow man struggling with his captors,... he may lawfully interpose
his own person between the parties and separate them." Away with such morality! encouraging
people to "act a lie," by opposing Law while professing to obey it! And this species of morality
is virtually commended to the jury-box; and its inmates are furnished in advance with a verdict
here prepared for their use--"justifiable homicide in self-defense"! Away with such morality!
encouraging a juror to violate his oath, by disregarding the Law, which he has just sworn to
his country and to his God, shall govern his verdict! and encouraging a fugitive to expect
him to do so!--We may yet see whether the jurymen of our country will regard their oath, or
will follow the religious counsel of this religious paper.

I am not justifying slavery. I am pleading obedience to the texts before me. Slavery may be
wrong. Be it so; there is still a righteous method to get rid of it. But if slavery is wrong,
that does not make violence and murder right.

