Why not Philadelphia? Philadelphia--then the acknowledged seat of the empire of Letters. Philadelphia--the
city of Penn, the "City of Brotherly Love." There was for one of The Dreamer's superstitious
turn of mind and his love of words and belief in their power, an attraction--a significance
in the very names. He said them over and over again to himself--rolled them on his tongue,
fascinated with their sound and with their suggestiveness.

He bade Virginia and "Muddie" keep up brave hearts, for they would turn their backs upon this
cold, inhospitable New York and set up their household gods in the "City of Brotherly Love."
The city of Penn, he added, was the place for one of his calling--laughing as he spoke, at
the feeble pun--but there was new hope and life in the laugh. In Penn's city, even if disappointments
should come they would be able to bear them, for how should human beings suffer in the "City
of Brotherly Love?"

CHAPTER XXIV.

The year was waning--the year 1838--when Edgar Poe removed his family from New York. About
the hour of noon, upon a pleasant day of the spring following, he might have been seen to turn
from the paved streets of the "City of Brotherly Love," and to enter, and walk briskly along,
a grassy thoroughfare of Spring Garden--a village-like suburb.

He was going home to Virginia and the Mother--to a new home in this village which they had
been first tempted to explore by its delightful name and which they had found seeing was to
love, for in its appearance the name was justified. The quiet streets were lined with trees
just coming into leaf, in which birds were building, happy and unafraid, and spring flowers
were blooming in little plots before many of the unpretentious homes.

The place also possessed a more practical attraction in the reasonableness of its house-rents.
Delightfully low was the price asked for a small, Dutch-roofed cottage that was just to their
minds. It was small, yet quite large enough to hold the three and their modest possessions,
and about it hung a quaint charm that might have been wanting in a more ambitious abode. Though
in excellent preservation it had a pleasantly time-worn air and there was moss, in velvety
green patches, on its sloping roof. It was set somewhat back from the street, with a bit of
garden spot in front of it, in whose rich soil violets and single hyacinths--blue and white--were
blooming, and its square porch supported a climbing rose, heavy with buds, that only needed
training to make it a bower of beauty.

After having tried several more or less unsatisfactory homes during their brief residence in
Philadelphia, they felt that they had at last found one that filled their requirements, and
had promptly moved in. There were no servants--maids would have been in the way they happily
told each other--but Virginia and her mother had positive genius for neatness and order. At
their touch things seemed to fly by magic into the places where they would look best and at
the same time be most convenient, and it was astonishing how quickly the arrangement of their
small belongings converted the cottage into a home.

It was with light heart and step that the master of the house took his way homeward to the
mid-day meal. The periodicals of the "City of Brotherly Love" were keeping him busy, and there
was at that moment money in his pocket--not much, but still it was money--that day received
for his latest story.

As he drew near a corner just around which his new roof-tree stood, he stopped suddenly--in
the attitude of one who listens. Peal after peal of rippling laughter was filling the air with
music. In his vivid eyes, as he listened, shone the soft light of love and a smile of infinite
tenderness played about his lips. Well he knew from what lovely, girlish throat came the merry
sounds--sweet and clear as a chime of silver bells. A quickened step brought him instantly
in view of her and the cause of her mirth.

She stood in the rose-hooded doorway leaning upon a broom. Her cheeks were pink with the exertion
she had been making and her sleeves were rolled up, leaving her dimpled, white arms bare to
the elbow. Her soft eyes were radiant and she was laughing for sheer delight in the picture
the stately "Muddie" made white-washing the palings that enclosed the wee garden-spot from
the street. When she saw her husband at the gate she dropped her broom and ran into his arms
like a child.

"Oh, Buddie, Buddie," she cried, "are not our palings beautiful? Muddie did them for a surprise
for you!"

"Buddie" was enthusiastic in admiration of the white palings and praised the gentle white-washer
to the skies. Then the three happy workers went inside to their simple repast, which the sauce
of content turned into a banquet.

The door had been left open to the sunshine and the result was an unexpected guest--a handsome
tortoise-shell kitten which strayed in to ask a share of their meal. She paused, timidly, upon
the threshold for a moment, then fixing her amber eyes upon The Dreamer, made straight for
him and arching her back and waving her tail like a plume, in the air she rubbed her glossy
sides against his ankle in a manner that was truly irresistible. All three gave her a warm
welcome. Edgar regarded her appearance as a good omen; Virginia was delighted to have a pet,
and "Catalina," as they named her, became from the moment a regular and favorite member of
the family.

       *       *       *       *       *

The cottage contained but five rooms--three downstairs (including the kitchen) and upstairs
two, with low-pitched, shelving walls and narrow little slits of windows on a level with the
floor. But as has been said, it was large enough--large enough to shelter love and happiness
and genius--large enough to hold the dream of the Valley of the Many-Colored Grass, with its
fair river and its enchanted trees and flowers, in which the three dreamers lived apart and
for each other only.

It was large enough for the freest expansion the world had yet seen of the vivid-hued imagination
of Edgar Poe.

Night and day his brain was busy--"fancy unto fancy linking"--and the periodicals teemed with
his work.

In The American Museum, of Baltimore appeared his fantastic prose-poem, "Ligeia," with his
theory of the power of the human will for a text--his favorite of all of his "tales"--his favorite,
in the weakness of whose own will lay the real tragedy of his life! In The Gift, of Philadelphia,
appeared, a little later the dramatic "conscience-story," "William Wilson," with its clear-cut
pictures of school-life at old Stoke-Newington. The Baltimore Book gave the thrilling fable,
"Silence," to the world. The weirdly beautiful "Haunted Palace" and "The Fall of the House
of Usher" followed in quick succession--in The American Museum.

"The Fall of the House of Usher," brought The Dreamer a pat-on-the back from "little Tom" White,
who in writing of the tale in The Southern Literary Messenger, informed the world: "We always
predicted that Mr. Poe would reach a high grade in American literature; only we wish Mr. Poe
would stick to the department of criticism; there he is an able professor."

Wrote James Russell Lowell, of the same story,

     "Had its author written nothing else it would have been enough
     to stamp him as a man of genius."

The cottage in Spring Garden was large enough too, for the sweet uses of hospitality. By the
time the roses on the porch were open, friends and admirers began to find their way to it,
and all who came through the white-washed gate and sat down in the green-hooded porch or passed
through it into the bright and tasteful rooms felt the poetic charm which this son of genius
and his exquisite bit of a wife and the stately mother with the "Mater Dolorosa" expression,
threw over their simple surroundings.

Among those who found their way thither was "Billy" Burton, an Englishman, and an actor, who
though a graduate of Cambridge was "better known as a commedian than as a literary man." He
had written several books, however, and was the publisher of The Gentleman's Magazine, of Philadelphia.
Here too, came intimately, Mr. Alexander, one of the founders of The Saturday Evening Post,
to which The Dreamer was a frequent contributor, and Mr. Clarke, first editor of The Post and
others of what Edgar Poe's friend, Wilmer, would have dubbed the "press gang" of Philadelphia.

To be intimate with The Dreamer meant to adore the little wife with the face of a Luca della
Robbia chorister and the voice which should have belonged to one--with the merry, irresistible
ways of a perfectly happy child,--and to revere the mother.

The cottage was also found to be large enough (as the fame of its master grew) to be the destination
of letters from the literary stars of the day. Longfellow and Lowell and Washington Irving,
on this side of the water, and Dickens, in England, were among Edgar Poe's numerous correspondents
while a dweller in the rose-embowered cottage in Spring Garden.

In addition to the stories, poems, essays and critiques which the indefatigable Dreamer was
putting out, he found time to publish a collection of his "Tales of the Grotesque and Arabesque,"
in book form. He was also (unfortunately for him) induced to prepare a work on sea-shells for
the use of schools--"The Conchologist's First Book," it was called. This was unmistakably a
mere "pot-boiler" and confessedly a compilation, but it set the little authors whose namby-pamby
works the self-appointed Defender of the Purity of Style in American Letters had consigned
to an early grave, like a nest of hornets buzzing about his ears.

"Plagarism!" was the burden of their hum.

Even while the discordant chorus was being chanted, however, his wonderfully original tales
continued to make their appearance at intervals--chiefly in The Gentleman's Magazine, whose
editor, at "Billy" Burton's invitation, he had become.

       *       *       *       *       *

In the midst of all this activity one of his old and most cherished dreams took more definite
shape than ever before--the dream of becoming himself the founder of a magazine in which he
could write as his genius and his fancy should dictate without having to be constantly making
compromises with editors and proprietors--a periodical which would fulfil his ideal of magazine
literature, which he predicted would be the leading literature of the future. With his prophetic
eye he foresaw the high pressure under which the American of coming years would live, and he
never lost an opportunity to express the opinion that the reader of the future would give preference
to the essay, or story, or poem which could be read at a sitting--which would waste no time
in preamble or conclusion, but in which every word would be chosen by the literary artist with
the nicety with which the painter selects the exact tint he needs, and in which every word
would tell. And such works he conceived it would be especially the province of the magazine
to present.

He went so far as to prepare a prospectus and advertise for subscribers to The Penn Monthly,
as he proposed naming this child of his hopes, and his proposition to enter the field of magazine
publishing not only as an editor, but as a proprietor, bade fair to be the rock upon which
he and his friend "Billy" Burton would split. They came to an understanding finally, however,
for when Mr. Burton, a little later, decided to abandon The Gentleman's Magazine and devote
himself exclusively to the theatre, he said to Mr. George R. Graham, the owner of The Gasket,
to whom he sold out,

"By the way, Graham, there's one thing I want to ask, and that is that you will take care of
my young editor."

Edgar Poe was at the moment lost in the happy dream of his own Penn Monthly which he conceived
would not only take care of him and his family, but would give his genius free rein. He was
resolved to put the best of himself into it, and the best of outside contributions he could
succeed in procuring. Its criticisms should be "sternly just, guided only by the purest rules
of Art, analyzing and urging these rules as it applied them; holding itself aloof from all
personal bias, acknowledging no fear save that of outraging the right." It would "endeavor
to support the general interests of the republic of letters--regarding the world at large as
the true audience of the author," he determined, and he declared in his prospectus.

Dear to his heart as was this dream of dreams of his intellectual life, he was soon to realize
that its fulfilment was not to be. At least--not yet, for he comforted his own heart and Virginia's
and "Muddie's" with the assurance that it was but a case of hope deferred again.

As he was bracing himself for this fresh disappointment, Mr. Graham, the purchaser of The Gentlemen's
Magazine which he proposed to combine with The Casket in the creation of Graham's Magazine,
sat in his office with a paper before him which the initiated would have at once recognized
as an Edgar Poe manuscript. It was a long, narrow strip, formed by pasting pages together endwise,
and had been submitted in a tight roll which Mr. Graham unrolled as he read. The title at the
top of the strip, in The Dreamer's neat, legible handwriting was, "The Man of the Crowd."

There was nothing gruesome about Mr. Graham. His candid brow, his kindling blue eye, his fresh-colored
cheeks, the genial curve of his lip and his strong but amiable chin, spoke of a sunshiny nature,
with neither taste nor turn for the weird. But, as he read, the strange "conscience-story"
moved him--held him in a grip of intense interest--wove a spell around him. He was on the lookout
for original material--undoubtedly he had it in this manuscript. He recalled "Billy" Burton's
last words to him: "Take care of my young editor."

A smile lighted his pleasant face. He had his own mental endowments--generous ones--and without
the least conceit he knew it; but he had no ambition to patronize genius.

"The writer of this story is quite able to take care of himself," he informed his inner consciousness,
"And if I can only form a connection with him it will doubtless be a case of the young editor's
taking care of me."

Upon the next afternoon Mr. Graham set out on a pilgrimage to Spring Garden. Though it was
November the air was mild and the sunshine was mellow. Was the sky always so blue in Spring
Garden, he wondered? He found the rose-embowered cottage without difficulty, for he had obtained
minute directions. The roses were all gone but the foliage was still green and the little white-paled
garden was bright with the sunset-hued flowers of autumn. Flowers and cottage stood bathed
in the light of the golden afternoon--the picture of serenity. What marked this quaint, small
homestead?--set back from the quiet village street--tucked away behind its garden-spot from
the din of the world? What made it different from others of its neighborhood and character?
Was it just a notion of his (Mr. Graham wondered) that made him feel that here was poetry pure
and simple?--visible poetry?

With sensations of keen interest he lifted the knocker. Edgar Poe himself opened the door and
his captivating smile, cordial hand-clasp and words of warm, as well as courtly, greeting raised
the visitor instantly from the ranks of the caller to the place of a friend. Mr. Graham had
met Edgar Poe before and had felt his charm, but he now told himself that to know him one must
see him under his own roof, and in the character of host.

As the door was opened a flood of music floated out. A divinely sweet mezzo-soprano voice was
singing to the accompaniment of a harp. As the master of the house flung wide the sitting-room
door and announced the visitor, the sounds ceased, but the musician sat with her hands resting
upon the gilded strings for a moment, her eyes turned in inquiry toward the door, then rose
and with the simplicity of a child came forward to place her hand in that of Mr. Graham. Mother
Clemm who sat near the window with a piece of sewing in her lap also arose, and with gentle
dignity came forward to be introduced and to do her part in making the guest welcome.

As he took the seat proffered him and entered upon the exchange of commonplace phrases with
which a visit of a comparative stranger is apt to begin, Mr. Graham's blue eyes gathered in
the details of the reposeful picture of which he had become a part. The open fire, the sunshine
lying on the bare but spotless floor, the vases filled with flowers, the few simple pieces
of furniture so fitly disposed that they produced a sense of unusual completeness and satisfaction--the
row of books, the harp, the cat dosing upon the hearth,--and finally, the people. The master
of the house--distinguished, handsome, dominant, genial, his young wife, the embodiment of
soft, poetic beauty, and the mother with her saint-like face and gentle, composed manner--her
expressive hands busy with her needle work. Was it possible that such a home--such a household--was
always there, keeping the even tenor of its way among the unpicturesque conventions of the
modern world?

After the first formalities had been exchanged he had delicately intimated that he had come
on business, but he soon began to see that whatever his business might be it was to be dispatched
right there, in the bosom of the family. This was irregular and unusual, yet, somehow, it did
not seem unnatural, and he found that the presence of the women of the poet's household was
not the least restraint upon the freedom of their discussion.

After some words of commendation of the story, "The Man of the Crowd," which he accepted for
the next number of his magazine, he came to the real business of the afternoon.

"Mr. Poe," said he, "I believe you know that with the new year The Gentleman's Magazine and
The Casket will be combined to form Graham's Magazine which it is my intention to make the
best monthly, in contributed articles and editorial opinion, in this country. Mr. Poe I want
an editor capable of making it this. I want you. What do you say to undertaking it?"

As he sat with his eyes fixed upon The Dreamer's eyes waiting for an answer he could not see
the quick clasping of the widow's hands the uplifting of her expressive face which plainly
said "Thank God," or the sudden illumination in the soft eyes of Virginia. But the transformation
in the beautiful face of the man before him held him spell-bound. Edgar Poe's great eyes were
glowing with sudden pleasure the curves of his mouth grew sweet, his whole countenance softened.

"This is very good of you, Mr. Graham," he said, his low, musical voice, warm with feeling.
"Your offer places me upon firm ground once more. To be frank with you, the failure, through
lack of capital, of my attempt to establish a magazine of my own (since the severing of my
connection with Burton, which gave me my only regular income) has left me hanging by the eyelids,
as it were, and I have been wondering how long I could hold on with only the small, irregular
sums coming in from the sale of my stories to depend upon. Your offer at this time means more
to me than I can express."

His girl-wife stole to his side and with pretty grace, unembarrassed by the presence of Mr.
Graham, leaned over his chair and pressed her lips upon his brow.

"But you know, Buddie," she murmured in a voice that was like a dove's, "I always told you
something would come along!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Darkness fell and lamps were lighted, and still Mr. Graham sat on and on as though too fascinated
by the charm of the little circle to move. To his own surprise he found himself accepting the
invitation to remain to supper. The simple table was beautiful with the dainty touch of Mother
Clemm and Virginia, and the very frugality of the meal seemed a virtue.

After supper his host, not the least of whose accomplishments was the rare one of reading aloud
acceptably, was persuaded to read some of his own poems--Mr. Graham asking for certain special
pieces. Among these were the lines "To Helen," which were recited with a fervor approaching
solemnity.

"Tell him about Helen, Eddie," murmured Virginia, who sat by his side.

"Yes, do tell me!" urged Mr. Graham, quickly. And with his eyes brooding and dreamy, the poet
went over, in touching and beautiful words, the story of what he always felt and declared to
be "the first pure passion of his soul."

In the silence that followed he arose and took from the wall a small picture--a pencil-sketch
of a lovely head.

"This is a drawing of her made by myself," he said. "It was done from memory, but is a good
likeness. I needed no sitting to make her likeness."

When he had shown Mr. Graham the picture, he hung it back in its place and a gentle hush fell
upon the little group. Speech seemed out of place after the moving recital and the four sat
gazing into the embers, each sunk in his or her own dreams.

The poet was the first to speak.

"Some music Sissy," he said turning to Virginia. "I want Mr. Graham to hear you."

She arose at once and seating herself at the harp, struck some soft, bell-like chords while
she waited for "Buddie" to decide what she should sing.

"Let it be something sweet and low," he said, "and simple. Something of Tom Moore's, for instance.
You know my theory, anything but the simplest music to be appreciated--to reach the soul--must
be heard alone."

The harp accompaniment rippled forth, and in a moment more melted into the rich, sweet passionate
tones of her voice as she told in musical numbers a heart-breaking story of love and parting.

Ballad after ballad followed while the little audience sat entranced. Finally when the singer
returned to her seat by the side of her husband, the conversation turned upon music. Mr. Graham
commented upon his host's theory that all music but the simplest should, for its best effect,
be listened to in solitude.

"Yes," said The Dreamer, "It is (like the happiness felt in the contemplation of natural scenery)
much enhanced by seclusion. And so too, I hold, should one listen to the deep harmonies of
music of the highest class."

At length the hour came when Mr. Graham felt that he must tear himself away--bring this strange
visit to an end. Before going he felt moved by an impulse to express something of the effect
it had had upon him.

"Mr. Poe," he said, "I wish to thank you for one of the most delightful evenings of my life
and for having taken me into the heart of your home. I can find no words in which to express
my appreciation. Tonight, at your fireside, it seems to me that I have had for the first time
in my life a clear understanding of the word happiness."

Edgar Poe smiled, dreamily.

"Why should we not be happy here?" he answered. "Concerning happiness, my dear Mr. Graham,
I have a little creed of my own. If I could only persuade others to adopt it there would be
more happy people--far more contented ones--in the world."

"And the articles of your creed?" queried Mr. Graham.

"Are only four. First, free exercise in the open air, and plenty of it. This brings health--which
is a kind of happiness in itself--that attainable by any other means is scarcely worth the
name. Second, love of woman. I need not tell you that my life fulfils that condition." (As
he spoke, his eyes, with an expression of ineffable tenderness, wandered for a moment--and
it seemed involuntarily--in the direction of his wife). "The third condition is contempt for
ambition. Would that I could tell you that I have attained to that! When I do, there will be
little in this world to be desired by me. The fourth and last is an object of unceasing pursuit.
This is the most important of all, for I believe that the extent of one's happiness is in proportion
to the spirituality of this object. In this I am especially fortunate, for no more elevating
pursuit exists, I think, than that of systematically endeavoring to bring to its highest perfection
the art of literature."

"I notice you do not mention money in your creed," remarked his guest.

"No, neither do I mention air. Both the one and the other are essential to life, and to the
keeping together of body and soul. It goes without saying that the necessities of life are
necessary to happiness. But money--meaning wealth--while it makes indulgence in pleasures possible,
has nothing to do with happiness. Indeed the very pleasure it ensures often obscure highest
happiness--the happiness of exaltation of the soul, of exercise of the intellect. What has
money to do with happiness? It is a happiness to wonder--it is a happiness to dream. Your over-fed,
jewel-decked, pleasure-drunk rich man or woman is too deeply embedded in flesh and sense to
do either. No"--he mused, his eyes on the glowing coals in the grate, "No--I have no desire
for wealth--for more than enough money to keep my wife and mother comfortable. They, like myself,
have learned the lesson of being poor and happy. But I must keep them above want--I will keep
them above want!" As he repeated the words the meditative mood dropped from him. He straightened
himself in his chair with sudden energy, his voice trembled and sunk almost to a whisper, in
place of the dreamy look his eyes flamed with passion.

"Mr. Graham," he exclaimed, "to see those you love better than your own soul in want, and,
in spite of working like mad, to be powerless to raise them out of it, is hell!"

A second time the exquisite child-wife slipped quickly, noiselessly, to his side and with the
same easy grace leaned over and touched his brow with her lips, but this time instead of moving
away, remained hanging over the back of his chair, her fair hand gently toying with the ringlets
on his brow. He was calm in an instant.

"I mean, of course, such a condition would be intolerable provided it should ever exist," he added.

       *       *       *       *       *

As the visitor stepped from the cottage door into the chill of the bright November night, and
made his way down the little path of flagstones--irregularly shaped and clumsily laid down,
so that mossy turf which was still green, appeared between them--he felt that he was stepping
back into a flat, stale and unprofitable world from one of the enchanted regions, "out of space,
out of time," of Poe's own creation.

He had indeed, had a revelation of harmonious home-life such as he had not guessed existed
in a work-a-day world--of the music, the poetry of living. He had had a glimpse into the Valley
of the Many-Colored Grass.

CHAPTER XXV.

The next morning found Mr. Graham still under the spell of the evening with the Poes. He caught
himself impatiently watching the clock, for the man under whose charm he had come was to call
at a certain hour, to confer with him in regard to the magazine. He could hear him coming (stepping
briskly and whistling a "Moore's Melody") before the rap upon the door announced him. He came
in with the bright, alert air of a man ready for action for which he has appetite. His rarely
heard laugh rang out, fresh and spontaneous, several times during the interview. His manners
were at all times those of a prince, but Mr. Graham had never seen him so genial, so gay. The
mantle of dreamer and poet had suddenly dropped from him, but the new mood had a charm all its own.

When business had been dispatched and they sat on to finish their cigars, Mr. Graham reiterated
his expressions of pleasure in his visit of the evening before.

"You gave me food for thought, Mr. Poe," said he. "I've been pondering on that creed of yours
for finding and keeping the secret of true happiness. It is about the most wholesome and sane
doctrine I've met with for some time. I've determined to adopt it, and to, at least endeavor,
to practice it."

His companion smiled.

"Good!" said he. "I only hope you'll have better success in living up to it than I have."

Mr. Graham's eyebrows went up. "I thought that was just what you did," was his answer.

"So it is, at times; but when the blues or the imp of the perverse get hold of me all my philosophy
goes to the devil, and I realize what an arch humbug I am."

"The imp of the perverse?" questioned Mr. Graham.

"That is my name for the principle that lies hidden in weak human nature--the principle of
antagonism to happiness, which, with unholy impishness, tempts man to his own destruction.
Don't you think it an apt name?"

"I don't believe I follow you."

"Then let me explain. Did you never, when standing upon some high point, become conscious of
an influence irresistibly urging you to cast yourself down? As you listened--fascinated and
horrified--to the voice, did you not feel an almost overwhelming curiosity to see what the
sensations accompanying such a fall would be--to know the extremest terror of it? Your tempter
was the Imp of the Perverse.

"Did you never feel a sense of glee to find that something you had said or done had shocked
someone whose good opinion you should have desired? Did you never feel a desire to depart from
a course you knew to be to your interest and follow one that would bring certain harm--possible
disaster--upon you? Did you never feel like breaking loose from all the restraints which you
knew to be for your good--throwing off every shackle of propriety, and right, and decency?--Mr.
Graham, did you never feel like throwing yourself to the devil for no reason at all other than
the desire to be perverse? Could any desire be more impish?--I will illustrate by my own case,
I am in one respect not like other men. An exceptionally high-strung nervous temperament makes
alcoholic stimulants poison to me. It works like madness in my brain and in my blood. The glass
of wine that you can take with pleasure and perhaps with benefit drives me wild--makes me commit
all manner of reckless deeds that in my sane moments fill me with sorrow!--and sometimes produces
physical illness followed by depression of spirits, horrible in the extreme. More--an inherited
desire for stimulation and the exhilaration produced by wine, makes it well nigh impossible
for me, once I have yielded my will so far as to take the single glass, to resist the second,
which is more than apt to be followed by a third, and so on. I am fully aware therefore, of
the danger that lies for me in a thing harmless to many men, and that my only safety and happiness
and the happiness of those far dearer to me than myself, lies in the strictest, most rigid
abstinence. Knowing all this, one would suppose that I would fly from this temptation as it
were the plague. I do generally. At present, several years have passed since I yielded an inch.
But there have been times--and there may be times again--when the Imp of the Perverse will
command me to drink and, fully aware of the risk, I will drink, and will go down into hell
for a longer or shorter period afterward."

During this lecture upon one of his favorite hobbies, the low voice of The Dreamer was vibrant
with earnestness. He spoke out of bitter experience and as he who bore the reputation of a
reserved man, laid his soul bare, his vivid eyes held the eyes of his companion by the very
intensity--the deep sincerity of their gaze.

Mr. Graham's last conversation with his new editor had dazed him; this one dazed him still
more. What manner of man was this? (he asked himself) with whom he had formed a league? He
could not say--beyond the fact that he was undoubtedly original--and interesting. Admirable
qualities for an editor--both!

The readers of the new monthly thoroughly agreed with him. The history of Edgar Poe's career
as editor of The Southern Literary Messenger promptly began to repeat itself with Graham's
Magazine. The announcement that he had been engaged as editor immediately drew the attention
of the reading world toward Graham's, and it soon became apparent that in the new position
he was going to out-do himself. The rapidity with which his brilliant and caustic critiques
and essays, and weird stories, followed upon the heels of one another was enough to take one's
breath away. He alternately raised the hair of his readers with master-pieces of unearthly
imaginings and diverted them with playful studies in autography and exhibitions of skill in
reading secret writing.

About the time of his beginning his duties at Graham's he must needs have had a visit from
some fairy godmother, the touch of whose enchanted wand left him with a new gift. This was
a wonderfully developed power of analysis which he found pleasure in exercising in every possible
way.

He tried the newly discovered talent upon everything. In his papers on "Autography" he practised
it in the reading of character from hand-writing, and in his deciphering of secret writing
he carried it so far and awakened the interest and curiosity of the public to such extent that
it bade fair to be the ruin of him; for it seemed his correspondents would have him drop literature
and devote himself and the columns of Graham's Magazine for the rest of his life, to the solving
of these puzzles. Finally, having proved that it was impossible for any of them to compose
a cypher he could not read in less time than its author had spent in inventing it, he took
advantage of his only safeguard, and positively declined to have anything more to do with them.

But he found a much more interesting way of exercising his power of analysis. In the April
number of Graham's he tried it upon a story--"The Murders in the Rue Morgue"--which set all
the world buzzing, and drew the interested attention of France upon him. In the next number,
while the "Murders" were still the talk of the hour, he made an excursion into the world of
pseudo-science the result of which was his thrilling "Descent into the Maelstrom;" but later
in the same month he returned to his experiments in analysis--publishing in The Saturday Evening
Post an advance review of Charles Dickens' story "Barnaby Rudge," which was just beginning
to come out in serial form. In the review he predicted, correctly, the whole development and
conclusion of the story. It brought him a letter from Dickens, expressing astonishment, owning
that the plot was correct, and enquiring if Edgar Poe had "dealings with the devil."

Soon followed the "Colloquy of Monos and Una," in which in the exquisite prose poetry of which
The Dreamer was a consummate master, his imagination sought to pierce the veil between this
world and the next--to lay bare the secrets of the soul's passage into the "Valley of the Shadow."

Whatever else Edgar Poe wrote, he continued to pour out through the editorial columns of Graham's
Magazine a steady stream of criticism of current books. While entertaining or amusing the public
as far as power to do so in him lay, he did not for a moment permit anything to come between
him and the duties of his post as Defender of Purity of Style in American Letters. He was unsparing
in the use of his pruning hook upon the work of his contemporaries and the height of art to
which by his fearless, candid and, at times, cruel criticism, he sought to bring others, he
exacted of himself. In spite of the amount of work he produced, each sentence that dropped
from his pen in this time of his maturity--his ripeness--was the perfection of clear and polished
English.

But the evidences of this conscientiousness in his own work did not make the little authors
one whit less sore under his lash. Privately they writhed and they squirmed--publicly they
denounced. All save one--an ex-preacher, Dr. Rufus Griswold--himself a critic of ability, who
would like to have been, like The Dreamer, a poet as well as a critic.

When Edgar Poe praised the prose writings of Dr. Griswold, but said he was "no poet," Dr. Griswold
like the other little authors writhed and squirmed secretly--very secretly--but openly he smiled
and in smooth, easy words professed friendship for Mr. Poe--and bided his time.

As for Poe himself, he had by close and devoted study of the rules which govern poetic and
prose composition--rules which he evolved for himself by analysis of the work of the masters--so
added to his own natural gifts of imagination and power of expression, so perfected his taste,
that crude writing was disgusting to his literary palate. He had made Literature his intellectual
mistress, and from the day he had declared his allegiance to her he had served her faithfully--passionately--and
he could brook no flagging service in others.

Both his growing power of analysis and his highly developed artistic feeling were brought into
full play in this review work. Under his guidance the writings of his contemporaries, whether
they were the little authors or the giants such as, in England, Tennyson (who was a prime favorite
with him), Macauley, Dickens, Elizabeth Barrett, or in America, Longfellow, Lowell, Hawthorne,
Irving, Emerson, stood forth illumined--the weak spots laid bare, the strong points gleaming
bright.

He unfalteringly declared his admiration of Hawthorne (then almost unknown) in which the future
so fully justified him.

Even the work of the little authors was indebted to him for many a good word, but the little
authors hated him and returned the brilliant sallies his pungent pen directed toward their
writings with vollies of mud aimed at his private character.

No matter what his subject, however, Edgar Poe always wrote with power--with intensity. He
seemed by turns to dip his pen into fire, into gall, into vitriol--at times into his own heart's
blood.

Of the last named type was the story "Eleonora," which appeared, not in Graham's, but in The
Gift for the new year, and wherein was set forth in phrases like strung jewels the story of
the "Valley of the Many-Colored Grass." The whole fabric of this loveliest of his conceptions
is like a web wrought in some fairy loom of bright strands of silk of every hue, and studded
with fairest gems. In it is no hint of the gruesome, or the sombre--even though the Angel of
Death is there. It is all pure beauty--a perfect flower from the fruitful tree of his genius
at the height of its power.

All of Edgar Poe's work gains much by being read aloud, for the eye alone cannot fully grasp
the music that is in his prose as well as his verse. "Eleonora" was read aloud in every city
and hamlet of the United States, and at firesides far from the beaten paths--the traveled roads--that
led to the cities; for it was written when every word from the pen of Edgar Poe was looked
for, waited for, with eager impatience, and when Graham's Magazine had been made in one little
year, by his writing, and the writing of others whom he had induced to contribute to its pages,
to lead the thought of the day in America.

And the success of The Dreamer made him a lion in the "City of Brotherly Love" as it had made
him a lion in Richmond. The doors of the most exclusive--the most cultivated--homes of that
fastidious city stood open to welcome him. The loveliest women, whether the grey ladies of
the "Society of Friends" or the brightly plumaged birds of the gayer world, smiled their sweetest
upon him. As he walked along the streets passers-by would whisper to one another,

"There goes Mr. Poe. Did you notice his eyes? They say he has the most expressive eyes in Philadelphia."

       *       *       *       *       *

Throughout this year of almost dazzling triumph the little cottage with its rose-hooded porch,
in Spring Garden, had been a veritable snug harbor to The Dreamer. In winter when the deep,
spotless snow lay round about it, in spring when the violets and hyacinths came back to the
garden-spot and the singing birds to the trees that overhung it, in summer when the climbing
green rose was heavy with bloom and in autumn when the wind whistled around it, but there was
a bright blaze upon the hearth inside, his heart turned joyously many times a day, and his
feet at eventide, when his work at the office in the city was over, toward this sacred haven.

And Edgar the Dreamer was happy. He should have been rich and would have been but for the meagre
returns from literary work in his time. Men were then supposed to write for fame, and very
little money was deemed sufficient reward for the best work. The poverty of authors was proverbial
and to starve cheerfully was supposed to be part of being one.

Still, with his post as editor of Graham's and the frequency with which his signature was seen
in other magazines, he was making a living. The howl of the wolf or his sickening scratching
at the door were no more heard, and in the Valley of the Many-Colored Grass the three dreamers
laughed together, and in the streets of the "City of Brotherly Love" Edgar Goodfellow whistled
a gay air, or arm in arm with some boon companion of the "Press gang" threaded his way in and
out among of the human stream, with a smile on his lips and the light of gladness in living
in his eyes.

And why should he not be happy? he asked himself. He had the snuggest little home in the world
and, in it, the loveliest little wife in the world and the dearest mother in the world. He
was upon the top of the wave of prosperity. His fame was growing--had already reached France,
where "The Murders" were still being talked about. Why should he not be happy? His devils had
ceased to plague him this long while. The blues--he was becoming a stranger to them. The Imp--he
had not had a single glimpse of him during the year. He was temperate--ah, therein lay man's
safety and happiness! By strict abstinence his capacity for enjoyment was exalted--purified.
He would let the cup forever alone--upon that he was resolved!

This was not always easy. Sometimes it had been exceedingly hard and there had been a fierce
battle between himself and the call that was in his blood--the thirst, not for the stuff itself,
but for its effects, for the excitement, the exhilaration; but he had won every time and he
felt stronger for the battle and for the victory--the victory of will. "Man doth not yield
himself to the angels or to death utterly" (he quoted) "save only through the weakness of his
feeble will." Upon continued resistence--continued victory--he was resolved, and in the resolution
he was happy.

Best of all, Virginia was happy, and "Muddie"--dear, patient "Muddie!" The two women chatted
like magpies over their sewing or house-work, or as they watered the flowers. They, like himself,
had made friends. Neighbors dropped in to chat with them or to borrow a pattern, or to hear
Virginia sing. And they had had a long visit from the violet-eyed Eliza White. What a pleasure
it had been to have the sweet, fair creature with them! (He little guessed how tremulously
happy the little Eliza had been to bask for a time in his presence--just to be near the great
man--and meanwhile guard all the more diligently the secret that filled her white soul and
kept her, for all her beauty and charm, and her many suitors, a spinster).

Eliza had brought them a great budget of Richmond news. It had been like a breath of spring
to hear it. She talked and they listened and they all laughed together from pure joy. How Virginia's
laugh had rippled out upon the air--it filled all the cottage with music!

It was mid-January, and he sat gazing into the rose-colored heart of the open coal fire going
over it all--the whole brilliant, full year.

"Sissy," he said suddenly, "Do you remember the birthday parties I used to tell you about--that
I had given me when I was a boy living with the Allans?"

"Yes, indeed! and the cake with candles on it and all your best friends to wish you many happy
returns."

"Well, you know the nineteenth will be my birthday, and I want to have a party and a cake with
candles and all our best friends here to wish you and me many happy returns of the happiest
birthday we have spent together. I only wish old Cy were here to play for us to dance! I'd
give something pretty to have him and his fiddle here, just to see what these sober-sided Penn
folk would think of them. My, wouldn't they make a sensation in the 'City of Brotherly Love!'"
He began whistling as clearly and correctly as a piccolo the air of a recently published waltz.
After a few bars he sprang to his feet and--still whistling--quickly shoved the table and chairs
to the wall, clearing the middle of the floor. The tune stopped long enough for him to say,

"Come, Sweetheart, you must dance this with me. My feet refuse to be still tonight!"--then
was taken up again.

The beautiful girl was in his arms in an instant and while "Muddie," in her seat by the window,
lifted her deep eyes from the work in her ever-busy hands and let them rest with a smile of
indulgent bliss upon her "children," they glided round and round the room to the time of the
fascinating new dance.

At length they stopped, breathless and rosy, and the poet, with elaborate ceremony, handed
his fair partner to a chair and began fanning her with "Muddie's" turkey-tail fan. He was in
a glow of warmth and pleasure. His wonderful eyes shone like lamps. His pale cheeks were tinged
with faint pink. While fanning Virginia with one hand he gently mopped the pleasant moisture
from his brow with the other. Virginia's eyes shot sunshine. Her laughter bubbled up like a
well-spring of pure joy.

"What would people say if they could see the great Mr. Poe--the grand, gloomy and peculiar
Mr. Poe--the author of 'Tales of the Grotesque and Arabesque,' who's supposed to be continually
'dropping from his Condor wings invisible woe?'" said she, as soon as she could speak. The
idea was so vastly amusing to her that she laughed until the shining eyes were filled with dew.

"If they could know half the pleasure I got out of that they wouldn't say anything," he replied.
"They would be dumb with envy. I suppose it's my mother in me, but I just must dance sometimes.
And this waltz! In spite of all the prudes say against it, it is the divinest thing in the
way of motion that ever was invented. It's exercise fit for the gods!"

He drew her to him and kissed her eyes and her cheeks and her lips.

"It was heavenly--heavenly, Sis," said he, "And I don't suppose even the prudes could object
to a man's waltzing with his own wife. I wonder will we ever dance to old Cy's fiddle again?"

CHAPTER XXVI.

It was a very modest party, but a merry one. The ground was covered with the unsullied whiteness
of new-fallen snow and the coming of most of the guests was heralded by the tintinnabulation
of the little silver bells so charming to the ear of the host.

The Grahams were among the first to be welcomed out of the frosty night into the glow of lamp
and candle and firelight, by the cordial hand and voice of Edgar Goodfellow. Mr. Graham was
in tune to most heartily take part in the commemoration of the birthday of the man who was
making Graham's Magazine the success of the publishing world in America. His kindling blue
eyes had never been kinder, his smile never more bland. Mr. Alexander, founder of The Saturday
Evening Post which so gladly published and paid for everything that Edgar Poe would spare it
from Graham's was the next, and close following him, Mr. Cottrell Clarke, first editor of the
Post, and his charming wife. Captain and Mrs. Mayne Reid, who were among the most admiring
and affectionate friends of the Poe trio were also there, and other congenial spirits.

They came in twos and threes, their laughter as light and clear as the tinkle of their sleigh-bells.

And Rufus Griswold was there. The Dreamer with his deep reverence for intellectual ability
had a sincere admiration for Dr. Griswold--though he did say he was "no poet." He desired the
approval--the friendship--of this brainy man and was proud and happy to have him of his party.

Coming in after the rest of the company had assembled, the brainy man's big frame, topped by
his big head, with his prominent brow and piercing eyes, his straight, thick nose, his large
full-lipped close-set mouth, his square jaw with the fringe of beard sharply outlining it,
produced a decided effect. He seemed to fill up a surprisingly large portion of the room. Instinctively,
the gentleman who had occupied the largest and heaviest chair vacated it and invited him to
be seated in it--which he did, instinctively. He was a young man--under thirty--but looked
much older. His face was a strange one. It could not have been called ugly. By some, indeed,
it was considered handsome. It was strong, but it was strange. There was an indefinable something
unpleasant, something to awaken distrust--fear--about it. Across the dome of the brow ran,
horizontally, a series of wavy furrows that produced, in place of the benevolent air the lofty
brow might have given, a sinister expression. The eyes beneath the wrinkled brow were piercing
and spoke of the fire of active mentality, but they were always downcast and turned slightly
askance, so that few people caught the full force of their gleam, and there was sternness and
coldness, as well as will, in the prominent chin and jaw.

He came late, but he was a little more cordial in his expressions of pleasure in coming than
any of those before him. His bows to Virginia and Mrs. Clemm were more profound--his estimation
of Virginia's beauty he made at once apparent in the intense, admiring gaze he bestowed upon
her. His words of congratulation and good will for his host were more extravagant than those
of any of the others and were uttered in a voice as smooth--as fluent--as oil; while he rubbed
his large, fleshy hands together in a manner betokening cordiality. When his host spoke, he
turned his ear toward him (though his eyes glanced aside and downward) with an air of marked
attention, and agreed emphatically with his views or laughed uproariously at his pleasantries.

Yet at Rufus Griswold's heart jealousy was gnawing. Heaven had endowed him with mind to recognize
genius, yet had denied him its possession. He that would have worn the laurel himself, was
born to be but the trumpeter of others' victories. He, like Edgar Poe, had an open eye and
ear for beauty--for harmony. He could feel the divine fire of inspiration in the creations
of master minds--yet he could not himself create. He was a brilliant critic, but (as has been
said) his ambition was to be, like Poe, also a poet. His quick intuition had divined the genius
of Poe at their first meeting. He knew in a flash, that the neat, slender, polished gentleman,
with the cameo face, the large brow and the luminous eyes, and with the deep-toned, vibrant
voice, was one of the few he had ever met of whom he could say with assurance, "There goes
a genius--" and of those few the topmost. Poe's writing, especially his poetry, enthralled
him. To have been able to come before the world as the author of such work he would have sold
his soul.

And this man who had caught him in a net woven of mingled fascination, and envy, and hate,
had, oh, bitter!--while generously applauding him as a critic and reviewer--as a compiler and
preserver of other men's work--had added, "But--but--he is no poet."

He had received the stab without an apparent flinch. He had even laughed and declared that
Mr. Poe was right. That he himself knew he was no poet--he did not aspire to be a real one,
but only dropped into verse now and then by way of pastime. The lie had slipped easily from
his tongue, but his eyes drooped ever so little more than usual as it did so, their shifty
gleam glanced ever so little more sidewise.

And though he came late to the birthday feast, his words of friendship were emphatic and the
laugh that told of his pleasure in being there was loud and frequent. And he smiled and rubbed
his hands together--and bided his time.

And Edgar Poe was pleased--immensely pleased--on his gala night, with the complimentary manner
and the complimentary words of this welcome guest--of this big, brainy man whose good opinion
he so much desired.

Alas, hapless Dreamer! Did the gleam of those eyes cast alway slightly downward, slightly askance--give
you no discomfort? Did the fang-like teeth when the thick lips opened to pour forth birthday
wishes or streams of uproarious laughter, and the square lines of the jaw, suggest to your
ready imagination no hint of cruelty? If you could but have known that what time he laughed
and talked with your guests and feasted at your board, with its tasty viands and its cake with
lighted candles, and bent his furtive glance upon the beauty of your guileless Virginia--if
you could but have known that in his black heart the canker jealousy was gnawing and that,
behind the smile he wore as a mask, the brainy man was biding his time!

It was a goodly little company--a coming together of bright wits and (for the most part) of
kind hearts, and the talk was crisp, and fresh, and charming.

Supper was served early.

"My wife and her mother have thought that you Penn folk might like to sit down to a Virginia
supper," said the host, as he led Mrs. Graham to the table, and stood for a moment while Virginia
designated the seats to be taken. Then still standing, said,

"Every man a priest to his own household, is our Virginia rule, but as we have with us tonight
one who before he took up Letters wore the cloth, I'm going to abdicate in his favor. Dr. Griswold
will you ask a blessing?"

All heads were bowed while the time-honored little ceremonial was performed, then seats were
taken and the repast begun.

Virginia presided over the "tea-things," while Mrs. Clemm occupied the seat nearest the door
opening on the kitchen, that she might slip as unobtrusively as possible out and back again
when necessary; but most of the serving was done by the guests themselves, each of whom helped
the dish nearest his or her plate, and passed the plates from hand to hand. All of the supper,
save the dessert and fresh supplies of hot waffles was on the table. There were oysters and
turkey salad and Virginia ham. And there were hot rolls and "batter-bread" (made of Virginia
meal with plenty of butter, eggs and milk, and a spoonful of boiled rice stirred in) and there
was a "Sally Lunn"--light, brown, and also hot, and plenty of waffles. In the little spaces
between the more important dishes there were pickles and preserves--stuffed mangoes and preserved
quinces and currant jelly. And in the centre of the table was the beautiful birthday cake frosted
by Virginia's dainty fingers and brilliant with its thirty-three lighted candles.

There was just enough room left for the three slender cut-glass decanters that were relics
of Mother Clemm's better days.

"The decanter before you, Mr. Graham, contains the Madeira; the Canary is before you, Captain
Reid, and I have here a beverage with which I am very much in love at present--apple wine--"
Edgar Poe said, tapping the stopper of a decanter of cider near his plate.

All understood. He had served the cider that he might join with them in their pledges of friendship
and good will without breaking through the rule of abstemiousness in which he was finding so
much benefit.

The toasts were clever as well as complimentary, and the table-talk light and sparkling. Finally
both Mrs. Clemm and Virginia arose to clear the table for the dessert.

"You see, my friends, we keep no maid or butler," said the host, "but I'm sure you will all
agree with me in feeling that we would not exchange our two Hebes for any, and they take serving
you as a privilege."

The cake was cut and served with calves-foot jelly--quivering and ruby red--and velvety blanc
mange.

After supper Virginia's harp was brought out of its corner and she sang to them. With adorable
sweetness and simplicity she gave each one's favorite song as it was asked for--filling all
the cottage with her pure sweet tones accompanied by the bell-like, rippling notes of the harp.
The company sat entranced--all eyes upon the lovely girl from whose throat poured the streams
of melody.

She seemed but a child; for all she had been married six years she had but just passed out
of her "teens" and might easily have been taken for a girl of fifteen. Her hair, it is true,
was "tucked up," but the innocence in the upturned, velvet eyes, the soft, childish outlines
of the face, the dimpled hands and arms against the harp's glided strings, the simple little
frock of white dimity, all combined to give her a "babyfied" look which was most appealing,
and which her title of "Mrs. Poe" seemed rather to accentuate than otherwise.

Rufus Griswold's furtive eye rested balefully upon her. And this exquisite being too, belonged
to that man--as if the gods had not already given him enough!

From a far corner of the room her husband gazed upon her, and bathed his senses in contemplation
of her beauty while his soul soared with her song. Mother Clemm noiselessly passing near him
to snuff a candle on the table upon which his elbow, propping his head, rested, paused for
a moment and laid a caressing hand upon his hair. He impulsively drew her down to a seat beside
him.

"Oh, Muddie, Muddie, look at her--look at her!" he whispered. "There is no one anywhere so
beautiful as my little wife! And no voice like hers outside of Heaven!... Ah--"

What was the matter? Was his Virginia ill? Even as he spoke her voice broke upon the middle
of a note--then stopped. One hand clutched the harp, the other flew to her throat from which
came only an inarticulate sound like a struggle for utterance. Terror was in the innocent eyes
and the deathly white, baby face.

For a tense moment the little company of birthday guests sat rooted to their places with horror,
then rushed in a mass toward the singer, but her husband was there first--his face like marble.
His arms were around her but with a repetition of that inarticulate, gurgling sound she fell
limp against his breast in a swoon. From the sweet lips where so lately only melody had been
a tiny stream of blood oozed and trickled down and stained her pretty white dress.

"Back!--All of you!" commanded the low, clear voice of Edgar Poe, as with the dear burden still
in his arms he sank gently to the floor and propping her head in his lap, disposed her limbs
in comfortable, and her dress in orderly manner. "Back--don't crowd! A doctor!"

One of the guests from nearby, who knew the neighborhood, had already slipped from the door
and gone to fetch the nearest doctor. The others sat and listened for his step in breathless
stillness.

Edgar Poe bent his marble face above the prostrate form of his wife, calling to her in endearing
whispers while, with his handkerchief he wiped from her lips the oozing, crimson stream. His
teeth chattered. Once before he had seen such a stream. It was long ago--long ago, but he remembered
it well. He was back--a little boy, a mere baby--in the small, dark room behind Mrs. Fipps'
millinery shop, in Richmond, and a stream like this came from the lips of his mother who lay
so still, so white, upon the bed. And his mother had been dying. He had seen her thus--he would
see her nevermore!... Would the doctor never come?--

       *       *       *       *       *

Many days the Angel of Death spread his wings over the cottage in the Valley of the Many-Colored
Grass. Their shadow cast a great stillness upon the cottage. Outside was a white, silent world.
Snow had fallen--snow on snow--until it lay deep, deep upon the garden-spot and deep in the
streets outside. There was no wind and the ice-sheathed trees that were as sentinels round
about the cottage stood still. They seemed to listen and to wait.

Inside, in the bed-chamber upstairs, under the shelving walls of the low Dutch roof, The Dreamer's
heartsease blossom lay broken and wan upon the white bed. It was a very white little blossom
and the dark eyes seemed darker, larger than ever before as they looked out from the pale face.
But they had never seemed so soft and a smile like an angel's played now and again about her lips.

Beside her, with his lips pressed upon the tiny white hand which he held in both his own was
the bowed figure of a man--of a poet and a lover who like the ice-sheathed trees seemed to
listen and to wait--of a man whose countenance from being pale was become ghastly, whose eyes
from being luminous were wild with a "divine despair."

At the foot of the bed sat a silver-haired woman with saintlike face uplifted in resignation
and aspiration. For once the busy hands were idle and were clasped in her lap. She too, listened
and waited, as she had listened and waited for days. Oh Love! Oh Life! Are these the happy
trio who lived for each other only in the Valley of the Many-Colored Grass?

The silence was only broken when the lips of the invalid moved to murmur some loving words
or to babble of the flowers in the Valley. She was in no pain but she was very tired. She was
not unhappy, for the two whom she loved and who loved her were with her and though she was
tired she soon would rest--in Heaven. When she spoke of going the man's heart stood still with
terror. He held the hand closer and pressed his lips more fiercely upon it.

He would not let her go, he vowed. There was no power in Heaven or hell to whom he would yield her.

But she sweetly plead that he would not try to detain her--that he would learn to bear the
idea of her leaving him which now gave her no unhappiness but for one thought--the thought
that after a season he might, in the love of some other maiden, forget the sweet life he had
lived with her in the Valley, and that because of his forgetting, it would not be given to
him to join her at last, in the land where she would be waiting for him--the land of Rest.

At her words, he flung himself upon his knees beside her bed and offered up a vow to herself
and to Heaven that he would never bind himself in marriage to any other daughter of earth,
or in any way prove himself forgetful of her memory and her love, and to make the vow the stronger,
he invoked a curse upon his head if he should ever prove false to his promise.

And she sighed as if a deadly burden had been lifted from her breast, and trembled and wept
and vowed that her bed of death had been made easy by his vow.

       *       *       *       *       *

But it was not to be the bed of death. Little by little the shadow lifted from over the cottage--the
shadow of the wings of the Angel of Death--and sunshine fell where the shadow had been, and
a soft zephyr made music, that was like the music of the voice of "Ligeia," in the trees which
dropped their sheath of ice. And the snow disappeared from the streets and from the garden-spot
which was all green underneath, and by the time the crocuses were up health and happiness reigned
once more in the cottage.

But it was a happiness with a difference. A happiness which for all it was so sweet, was tinctured
with the bitter of remorse.

During the illness of his beloved wife, Edgar Poe had lived over and over again through the
horror of her death and burial with all of the details with which the circumstances of his
life had so early made him familiar--and had tasted the desolation for him which must follow.
While his soul had been overwhelmed with this supreme sorrow his mind had been unusually clear
and alert. He had been alive to the slightest change in her condition. Anticipating her every
whim, he had nursed her with the tenderness the untiring devotion, of a mother with her babe.
Through all his grief he was quiet, self-possessed, efficient.

But with the first glimmer of hope, his head reeled. His reason which had stood the shock of
despair, or seemed to stand it, gave way before the return of happiness. A wild delirium possessed
him. Joy drove him mad, and already drunk with joy--mad with it--he flung prudence, philosophy,
resolutions to the wind and drank wine--and drank--and drank. When--where--how much--he did
not know; but at last merciful illness overtook him and stopped him in his wild career.

With his convalescence his right mind returned to him; but he felt as he did when he awoke
to consciousness in Mother Clemm's bed-chamber in Baltimore--that he had been down into the
grave and back again. Only--then there was no remorse--no fiercely accusing conscience to make
him wish from his soul that he might have remained in the abyss.

       *       *       *       *       *

In dressing-gown and slippers he sat--weak and tremulous--in an arm-chair drawn close to the
open fire in the cottage sitting-room. About him hovered his two angels, anticipating his every
need, pausing at his side now and again to bestow a delicate caress. Virginia was more beautiful
since her illness. Her face and figure had lost their plumpness and with it their childish
curves--but a something exalted and ethereal had taken their place. Her eyes were softer, more
wistful than ever. Through her fair, transparent skin glowed the faintest, most exquisite bloom.
Her harp was mute. Her singing voice was gone. But the deep, low tones of her speaking voice,
full of restrained feeling, could only be compared by her husband to the melodious voice of
the dream-woman, "Ligeia." They recalled to him the impression that the voice of the priest
as he read the funeral rite over his dead mother had made upon his infant mind--the impression
of spoken music. His Virginia could no longer sing, but every word that fell from her lips
was music.

As she and her tall, nun-like mother quietly stepped about the rooms ministering to his comfort,
lifting the work of preparing the simple meals, mending the fire, and keeping the rooms bright
into a sacred rite by the grace, the care, the dignity with which it was performed, no word,
no look escaped either save of tenderness, patience, and boundless love. All the reproaches
came from within his own breast--from that inner self that boldly tearing the veil from his
deeds filled him with loathing of himself.

The years, his troubles, and his illness, had wrought a great change in him--outwardly. The
dark ringlets that framed his face were still untouched with rime, and the dark grey eyes were
as vivid, as ever-varying in expression as before, but the large brow wore a furrow and over
it and the clear-cut features and the emaciated cheeks was a settled pallor. The face was still
very beautiful, but in repose it was melancholy and about the mouth there was a touch of bitterness.
The illumining smile still flashed out at times, and filled all his countenance with sweetness
and light--but it was rarer than formerly.

He had many reasons for being happy--for being thankful. The genius with which he was conscious
he was endowed in larger measure than others of his generation was being recognized. He had
fame--growing fame--and money enough for his needs. He had what was as necessary to his soul
as meat was to his body--the love of a woman who understood him in all his moods and who was
beautiful enough in mind and in body and pure enough in spirit for him to worship as well as
to love--to satisfy his soul as well as his senses. And this woman, at the very moment when
he thought himself about to lose her forever, had been given back to him--given back clothed
upon with a finer a more exquisite beauty than she had possessed before.

He had indeed found the end of the rainbow, but what did it amount to? He was dissatisfied--not
with what life was giving him, but with what he was doing with his life. At the moment when
his cup was fairly overflowing with happiness and he should have been strongest, he had suffered
himself to be led away by the Imp of the Perverse, and had spoiled all. Nothing he had ever
been made to taste he told himself, was so unbearably bitter as this dissatisfaction--this
disgust with self.

       *       *       *       *       *

Yet when again the tiny crimson stream stained the sweet lips of his Virginia, and again the
Angel of Death spread a dread wing for a season over the Valley of the Many-Colored Grass,
all his knowledge of the bitterness--the loathing--of remorse was not sufficient to make him
strong for the struggle with grief and despair.

Again the reason of Edgar Poe gave way before the strain, and again he fell.

CHAPTER XXVII.

A day when the porch was rose-embowered once more and the garden-spot a riot of color and the
birds singing in the trees round about, found Mr. Graham seated at Edgar Poe's desk in the
office of Graham's Magazine. The door behind him opened, and he raised his head from his writing
and quickly glanced over his shoulder. The look of inquiry in his blue eyes instantly kindled
into one of welcome.

"Come in! Come in! Dr. Griswold," he exclaimed. "I am more than glad to see you! We are overwhelmed
with work just now and perhaps we'll induce you to lend a hand."

The visitor came forward with outstretched hand, stooping and bowing his huge bulk as he came
in a manner that to a less artless mind than Mr. Graham's might have suggested a touch of the
obsequious. His furtive but watchful eye had already marked the fact that it was at Mr. Poe's
desk--not his own--that Mr. Graham sat--which was as he had anticipated.

"Mr. Poe laid up again?" he queried.

"Yes; he seems to be having quite an obstinate attack this time."

The visitor sadly shook his head. "Ah?--poor fellow, poor fellow!"

"Do you think his condition serious?" asked Mr. Graham, with anxiety.

Dr. Griswold cast a glance of the furtive eye over his shoulder and around the room; then stooped
nearer Mr. Graham.

"Didn't you know?" he questioned, in a lowered tone.

"Only that the failure of his wife's health has been a sad blow to him and that after each
of her attacks he has had a break-down. Is there anything more?"

Dr. Griswold stooped nearer still and brought his voice to a yet lower key.

"Whiskey"--he whispered.

Mr. Graham drew back and the candid brows went up.

"Ah--ah" he exclaimed. Then fell silent and serious.

"Did you never suspect it?" asked his companion.

"Never. I used to hear rumors when he was with Billy Burton, but I never saw any indications
that they were true, and didn't believe them. How could I? Think of the work the man turns
out--its quantity, its quality! He is at once the most brilliant and the most industrious man
it has been my good fortune to meet--and withal the most perfect gentleman--exquisite in his
manners and habits, and the soul of honor. Did you ever know a man addicted to drink to be
so immaculately neat as he always is? Or so refined in manners and speech? Or so exact in his
dealings? There is no one to whom I would more readily advance money, or with greater assurance
that it will be faithfully repaid in his best, most painstaking work--to the last penny!"

Dr. Griswold's face took on a look of deep concern.

"The more's the pity--the more's the pity!" said he. "A good man gone wrong!" Then with a hesitating,
somewhat diffident air.

"You say that you need help which I might, perhaps, give?"

Mr. Graham was the energetic business man once more. Dr. Griswold's visit was most opportune,
he said, for while he had on hand a good deal of "copy" for the next number of the magazine--furnished
by Mr. Poe before his illness--there were one or two important reviews that must be written
and Dr. Griswold would be the very man to write them, if he would.

As Rufus Griswold seated himself at Edgar Poe's desk a look that was almost diabolic came into
his face. The temporary substitution was but a step, he told himself, to permanent succession.
As editor of the magazine which under Poe's management had come to dominate thought in America,
he could speak to an audience such as he had not had before. He could make or mar literary
reputations and he could bring the public to recognize him as a poet!

It so chanced that upon that very day the editor of Graham's Magazine found himself sufficiently
recovered from his illness to go out for the first time. As he fared forth, gaunt and tremulous,
the midsummer beauty of out-of-doors effected him curiously. It seemed strange to him that
the rose on the porch should be so gay, that the sunshine should lie so golden upon the houses
and in the streets of Spring Garden--that birds should be singing and the whole world going
happily on when his heart held such black despair. As he went on, however, the fresh sweet
air gave him a sense of physical well-being that buoyed his spirits in spite of the bitterness
of his thoughts.

He was going to work again, and he was glad of it--but he made no resolutions for the future.
In the past when he had fallen and had braced himself up again, he had sworn to himself that
he would be strong thereafter--that he would never, never yield to the temptation to touch
wine again. But he had not been strong. And now he looked the deplorable truth straight in
the face. He hoped with all his soul that he would not fall again. He would give everything
he possessed to ensure himself from yielding to the temptation to taste the wild exhilaration--the
freedom--the forgetfulness--to say to the cup "Nevermore"--to ensure himself from having to
pay the price of his yielding in the agony of remorse that was a descent into hell.

But he would deceive himself with no lying pledges. He hoped--he longed to be strong; but he
could not swear that he would be--he did not know whether he would be or not. The temptation
was not upon him now--he loathed the very thought of it now; but the temptation would most
certainly return sooner or later. He hoped from the bottom of his soul that he would resist
it, but he feared--nay, in his secret heart he believed--that he would yield. And because he
believed it he loathed himself.

As he drew near the office he thought of Mr. Graham,--how kind he was--how trustful. He wondered
if Mr. Graham knew the cause of his illnesses and if not how long it would before he would
know it; and if the attacks were repeated how long he would be able to hold the place that
had shown him the end of the rainbow? How bitter it would be to some day find, added to all
the other disastrous results of his weakness of will--to find another in the editorial chair
of Graham's.

Just at this point in his soliliquy he reached his destination. He mounted the steps leading
to the office of Graham's Magazine and opened the door--quietly.

For a moment the two men in the office--each deep in his own work--were unaware of his presence,
and he stood staring upon their backs as they sat at their desks. Mr. Graham was in his accustomed
seat and in his--The Dreamer's--the giant frame of the man whose big brain he admired--though
he was "no poet,"--the frame of Rufus Griswold!

Horror clutched his heart. Mr. Graham evidently knew, and knowing had supplied his place without
deeming him worth the trouble of notifying, even. Had supplied it, moreover, with the one man
who he himself believed would fill it with credit. The readers would be satisfied. He would
not be missed. He turned and stumbled blindly down the stairs. Mr. Graham heard him, and hurrying
to the door, recognized and followed him--trying to explain and to persuade him to return.
But he was too much excited to listen. His reason prompted him to listen, but the Imp of the
Perverse laughed reason to scorn. Seeing disaster ahead he rushed headlong to embrace it.

He understood--he understood, he reiterated. There was nothing to explain. Mr. Graham had secured
Dr. Griswold's services. Mr. Graham had done well. No, not for any inducement would he consider
returning.

He was gone! He was in the street--a wanderer! A beggar, he told himself!

       *       *       *       *       *

He wandered aimlessly about for an hour, then foot-sore--exhausted in mind and body--he turned
his face wearily in the direction of Spring Garden, with its rose-embowered cottage sheltering
exquisite beauty--unalterable love--unfailing forgiveness--heartsease. He must go home and
tell "Muddie" and "Sissy" that he was a ruined man! Oh, if they would only give him his desert
for once! If they would only punish him as he felt he should be punished. But they would not!
They could not--for they were angels. They were more--they were loving women filled with that
to which his mind and his soul bowed down and worshipped as reverently as they worshipped God
in Heaven--woman's love, with its tenderness, its purity, and its unwavering steadfastness.
They would suffer--that horrible fear, the fear of the Wolf at the door which they had not
known in their beloved Spring Garden and since he had been with Graham's would again rob them
of peace. They would bear it with meek endurance, but they would not be able to hide it from
him. He would see it in the wistful eyes of Virginia and in the patient eyes of "Muddie." But
they would utter no reproach. They would soothe him with winning endearments and bid him be
of good cheer and would make a gallant fight to show him that they were perfectly happy.

       *       *       *       *       *

During the year and a half of Edgar Poe's connection with Graham's Magazine he had raised the
number of subscribers from five thousand to thirty-seven thousand. His salary, like that he
had received from The Messenger, had been a mere pittance for such service as he gave, but
also, like what he received from The Messenger it had been a regular income--a dependence.
With the addition of the little checks paid him for brilliant work in other periodicals, it
had amply served, as has been said, to keep the Wolf from the door. In order to make as much
without a regular salary it would be necessary for him to sell a great many articles and that
they should be promptly paid for. And so he wrote, and wrote, and wrote, while "Muddie" took
the little rolls of manuscript around and around seeking a market for them. Her stately figure
and saintlike face became familiar at the doors of all the editors and publishers in Philadelphia.

It was a weary business but her strength and courage seemed never to flag. Sometimes she succeeded
in selling a story or a poem promptly and receiving prompt pay. Then there was joy in the rose-embowered
cottage. Sometimes after placing an article payment was put off time and time again until hope
deferred made sick the hearts of all three dwellers in the cottage.

Oftentimes they were miserably poor--sometimes they were upon the verge of despair--yet through
all there was an undercurrent of happiness that nothing could destroy--they had each other
and even at the worst they still dreamed the dream of the Valley of the Many-Colored Grass,
even though the heartsease blossom drooped and drooped.

Virginia's attacks continued to come at intervals, and each time the shadow hung more persistently
and with deeper gloom over the cottage. It would be lifted at length, but not until the husband
and mother had suffered again all the agonies of parting--not until what they believed to be
the last goodbyes had been said and the imagination, running ahead of the actual, had gone
through each separate detail of death and burial.

The Dreamer's thoughts dwelt constantly upon these scenes and details until finally the "dirges
of his hope one melancholy burden bore--of Never--Nevermore."

Under the influence of the state of mind that was thus induced, a new poem began to take shape
in his brain--a poem of the death of a young and beautiful woman and the despair and grief
of the lover left to mourn her in loneliness. As it wrote itself in his mind the word that
had thrilled and charmed and frightened him at the bedside of his mother and to whose time
his feet had so often marched, as to a measure--the mournful, mellifluous word, Nevermore--became
its refrain.

The composition of his new poem became an obsession with him. His brain busied itself with
its perfection automatically. Not only as he sat at his desk, pen in hand; frequently it happened
that at these times the divine fire refused to kindle--though he blew and blew. But at other
times, without effort on his part, the spark was struck, the flames flashed forth and ran through
his thoughts like wild-fire. When he was helping Virginia to water the flowers in the garden;
when he walked the streets with dreaming eyes raised skyward, studying the clouds; when he
sat with Virginia and the Mother under the evening lamp or with feet on the fender gazed into
the heart of the red embers, or when he lay in his bed in the quiet and dark--wherever he was,
whatever he did, the phrases and the rhythm of the new poem were filtering through his sub-consciousness,
being polished and made perfect.

Indeed the poem in the making cast a spell upon him and he passed his days and his nights as
though in a trance. Virginia and Mother Clemm knew that he was in the throes of creation, and
they respected his brown-study mood--stepping softly and talking little; but often by a silent
pressure of his hand or a light kiss upon his brow, saying that they understood. They were
happy, for they knew the state of mind that enveloped him to be one of profound happiness to
him--though the brooding look that was often in his grey eyes told them that the visions he
was seeing had to do with sorrow. They waited patiently, feeling certain that in due course
would be laid before them a work in prose or verse, presenting in jewel-like word and phrase,
scenes in some strange, fascinating country which it would charm them to explore.

At last it was done! He told them while they sat at the evening meal.

"I have something to read to you two critics after supper," he said. "A poem upon which I have
been working. I don't know whether it is of any account or not."

The two gentle critics were all interest. Virginia was breathless with enthusiasm and could
hardly wait to finish her supper.

"I knew you were doing something great," she exclaimed. "I know it is great! Nothing you have
ever done has wrapped you up so completely. You've been in a beautiful trance for weeks and
Muddie and I have been almost afraid to breathe for fear of waking you up too soon."

As soon as supper was over he brought out one of the familiar narrow rolls of manuscript and
smilingly drew it out for them to see its length--giving Virginia one end to hold while he
held the other.

She read aloud, in pondering tone, the two words that appeared at the top: "The Raven."--

Then, as she let go the end she held, the manuscript coiled up as if it had been a spring,
and the poet rolled it closely in his hands and with his eyes upon the fire, began, not to
read, but slowly to recite. His voice filled the room with deep, sonorous melody, saving which
there was no sound.

When the last words,

"And my soul from out that shadow that lies floating on the floor,

    Shall be lifted--nevermore!"

had been said, there was a moment of tense silence. Then Virginia cast herself into his arms
in a passion of tears.

"Oh, Eddie," she sobbed, "it is beautiful--beautiful! But so sad! I feel as I were the 'lost
Lenore' and you the poor lover; but when I leave you you must not break your heart like that.
You and Muddie will have each other and soon you will come after me and we will all be happy
together again--in Heaven!"

No word passed the lips of the mother. Her silvered head was bowed in grief and prayer. She
too saw in "Lenore" her darling child, and she felt in anticipation the loneliness and sorrow
of her own heart. She spoke no word, but from her saintly eyes two large bright tears rolled
down her patient cheeks upon the folded hands in her lap.

And thus "The Raven" was heard for the first time.

Soon afterward it was recited again. Edgar Poe carried it himself to Mr. Graham and offered
it for the magazine. Mr. Graham promised to examine it and give him an answer next day. That
night he read it over several times, but for the life of him he could not make up his mind
about it. Its weirdness, its music, its despair, affected him greatly. But Mr. Graham was a
business man and he doubted whether, from a business point of view, the poem was of value.
Would people like it? Would it take? He would consult Griswold about it--Griswold was a man
of safe judgment regarding such matters.

Dr. Griswold was indeed, a man of literary judgment and of taste. The beauty of the poem startled
him. It would bring to the genius of Edgar Poe (he said to himself)--the poetic genius--acknowledgment
such as it had never had before. It was too good a poem to be published. He had bided his time
and the hour of his revenge was come. He would have given his right hand to have been able
to publish such a poem over his own signature--but the world must not know that Poe could write
such an one!

The candid eyes of Mr. Graham as he awaited his opinion were upon his face. His own eyes wore
their most furtive look--cast down and sidelong. His tone was depressed and full of pity as
he said,

"Poor Poe! It is too bad that when he must be in need he cannot, or does not, write something
saleable. Of course you could not set such stuff as this before the readers of Graham's!"

For once Mr. Graham was disposed to question his opinion.

"I don't know about that," he said. "The poem has a certain power, it seems to me. It might
repel--it might fascinate. I should like to buy it just to give the poor fellow a little lift.
The lovely eyes of that fragile wife of his haunt me."

It was finally decided to let Mr. Poe read the poem to the office force, and take the vote upon it.

They were all drawn up in a semi-circle, even the small office boy, who sat with solemn eyes
and mouth open and who felt the importance of being called upon to sit in judgment upon a "piece
of poetry." Edgar Poe stood opposite them and for the second time recited his new poem--then
withdrew while the vote was taken.

Dr. Griswold was the first to cast his vote and at once emphatically pronounced his "No!"

The rest agreed with him that the poem was "too queer," but as a solace for the poet's disappointment
some one passed around a hat and the next day a hamper of delicacies was sent to Mrs. Poe,
with the "compliments of the staff at Grahams."

Albeit "The Raven" was rejected by Graham's Magazine and others, enough of Edgar Poe's work
was bought and published to keep his name and fame before the public--just enough (poorly paid
as it was) to keep the souls of himself and his wife and his "more than mother," within their
bodies.

And though Mr. Graham would none of "The Raven," he paid its author fifty-two dollars for a
new story--"The Gold Bug." This sum seemed a small fortune to The Dreamer at the time, but
he was to do better than that with his story. The Dollar Magazine of New York offered a prize
of one hundred dollars for the best short story submitted to it. Poe had nothing by him but
some critical essays, but remembering his early success in Baltimore with "The MS. Found in
a Bottle," he was anxious to try. So he hastened with the critiques to Graham's and offered
them in place of the story.

Mr. Graham agreed to the exchange and "The Gold Bug" was promptly dispatched to New York, where
it was awarded the prize.

When it was published in The Dollar Magazine it made a great noise in the world and a red-letter
day in the life of Edgar Poe.

       *       *       *       *       *

The hundred dollars brought indeed, a season of comfort and cheer in the midst of the hardest
times the cottage in Spring Garden had known. But the last penny was finally spent.

Winter came on--the winter of 1843. It was a severe winter to the cottage. The bow of promise
that had spanned it seemed to have withdrawn to such a vast height above it that its outlines
were indistinct--its colors well nigh faded out.

The reading public still trumpeted the praise of Edgar the Dreamer--his friends still believed
in him--from many quarters their letters and the letters of the great ones of the day fluttered
to the cottage. And not only letters came, but the literati of the day in person--glad to sit
at Edgar Poe's feet, their hearts glowing with the eloquence of his speech and aching as they
recognized in the lovely eyes of the girl-wife "the light that beckons to the tomb."

But there were other visitors that winter, and less welcome ones. Though the master of the
cottage wrote and wrote, filling the New York and Philadelphia papers and magazines with a
stream of translations, sketches, stories and critiques, for which he was sometimes paid and
sometimes not, the aggregate sum he received was pitifully small and the Wolf scratched at
the door and the gaunt features of Cold and Want became familiar to the dwellers in the Valley
of the Many-Colored Grass.

In desperation the driven poet turned this way and that in a wild effort to provide the necessities
of life for himself and those who were dearer to him than self--occasionally appearing upon
the lecture platform, and finally attempting, but without success, to secure government office
in Washington.

And oftener and oftener, and for longer each time the Shadow rested upon the cottage--making
the Valley dark and drear and dimming the colors of the grass and the flowers--the dread shadow
of the wing of the Angel of Death.

Even at such times The Dreamer made a manful struggle to coin his brains into gold--to bring
to the cottage the comforts, the conveniences, the delicacies that the precious invalid should
have had. An exceedingly appealing little invalid, she lay upon her bed in the upper chamber
whose shelving ceiling almost touched her head; and sometimes "Muddie" and "Eddie" fanned her
and sometimes they chafed her hands and her feet and placed her pet, "Catalina," grown now
to a large, comfortable cat, in her arms, that the warmth of the soft body and thick fur might
comfort her shuddering frame. And oftentimes as she lay there "Eddie" sat at a table nearby
and wrote upon the long strips of paper which he rolled into the neat little rolls which he
or "Muddie" took around to the editors.

And sometimes the editors were glad to have them, and to pay little checks for them, and sometimes
not.

The truth was, that though the fame of Edgar Poe was well established, there was an undercurrent
of opposition to him, that kept the price of his work down. The little authors--venomous with
spite and jealousy--the little authors, chief among whom was Rufus Griswold of the furtive
eye and deprecating voice, were sending forth little whispers defaming his character, exaggerating
his weakness and damning his work with faint praise, or emphatic abuse.

A day came when Edgar Poe realized that he must move on--that the "City of Brotherly Love"
had had enough of him--that to remain must mean starvation. What removal would mean he did
not know. That might mean starvation too, but, as least, he did not know it.

It was hard to leave the rose-embowered cottage. It was April and about Spring Garden and the
cottage the old old miracle of the renewal of life was begun. The birds were nesting and the
earliest flowers were in bloom. It was bitter to leave it--but, there was no money for the
rent. His fame had been greatest in New York, of late. The New York papers had been the most
hospitable to his work. It was bitter to leave Spring Garden, but perhaps somewhere about New
York they would find another rose-embowered cottage. Virginia was unusually well for the present
and the prospect of a change carried with it a possibility of prosperity. Who could tell what
good fortune they might fall upon in New York?

Edgar Goodfellow had suddenly made his appearance for the first time in many moons. A change
was the thing they all needed, he told himself. In change there was hope!

He placed Mother Clemm and "Catalina" temporarily with some friends of the "City of Brotherly
Love" who had invited them, and accompanied by his Virginia who was looking less wan than for
long past, fared forth, in the highest spirits, to seek, for the second time a home in New York.

CHAPTER XXVIII.

New York once more! They went by rail to Amboy and the remaining forty miles by steamboat.

Certain cities, like certain persons, are witches; they have power to cast a spell. New York
is one of them.

Edgar and Virginia Poe had known hard times in New York--the bitterness of hard times in a
city large enough for each man to mind his own business and leave his neighbors to mind theirs.
Yet as the boat slowed down and neared the wharf, and--past the shipping--they descried the
houses and spires of town looming, ghostlike, through the enveloping mist of the soft, grey
April day, it was with a thrill that these two standing hand in hand--like children--upon the
deck, clasped each other's fingers with closer pressure and whispered,

"New York once more!"

It was their first little journey in the world just together, just they two, and much as they
loved the dear mother--their kind earthly Providence, as they laughingly called her--there
was something very sweet about it. It was almost like a wedding journey. The star of hope which
never deserted them for long, no matter what their disappointments and griefs might be, shone
bright above their horizon--their beautiful faces reflected its light. By it the lines of care
and bitterness seemed suddenly to have been smoothed out of Edgar's face, and under its influence
Virginia's merry laugh rippled out upon the moist air, causing the eyes of her fellow-travellers
to turn admiringly her way many times.

Her husband hovered tenderly near her, drawing her shawl with solicitous hand closer about
her shoulders and standing upon the windward side of her to protect her from the damp and keen
breeze. He noted with delight the fresh color of her cheeks--the life and color in her eyes.

"Do you know, Sweetheart," he said, "You have not coughed once since we left Philadelphia!
The change is doing you good already."

Both were blythe as birds. As the boat tied up at the wharf a gentle shower set in, but it
did not effect their spirits. He left her on board with some ladies whose acquaintance she
had made during the journey, while he fared forth in the rain in quest of a boarding-house.
As he stepped ashore he met a man selling second-hand umbrellas. He bought quite a substantial
one for sixty-two cents and went on his way rejoicing in the lucky meeting and the good bargain.

In Greenwich Street he found what he sought--a genteel-looking house with "Boarders wanted,"
upon a card in the window. Another good bargain was made, and hailing a passing "hack" he hastened
back to the boat for Virginia and her trunk and soon they were rattling over the cobblestones.

"Why this is quite a mansion," exclaimed the little wife, as she peered out at the house before
which the carriage stopped--for while the gentility of the establishment was of the proverbial
"shabby" variety, the brown-stone porch and pillars gave it an air of unmistakable dignity.

Not long after their arrival the supper-bell rang, and they found themselves responding with
alacrity. When they took the seats assigned them and their hungry eyes took in the feast spread
before them, they squeezed each other's hands under the table--these romantic young lovers
and dreamers. They had been happy in spite of frugality. Many a time while hunger gnawed they
had kissed each other and vowed they wanted nothing (high Heaven pardoning the gallant lie!)
Yet now, the traveller's appetite making their palates keen--the travellers weariness in their
limbs--they were seized upon by an unblushing joy at finding themselves seated at an ample
board with a kindly landlady at the head pouring tea--strong and hot--whose aroma was as the
breath of roses in their nostrels, while her portly and beaming spouse, at the foot, with blustering
hospitality pressed the bounty of the table upon them. A bounteous table indeed, this decidedly
cheap and somewhat shabby boarding-house spread, and to their eager appetites everything seemed
delicious.

There were wheat bread and rye bread, butter and cheese, cold country ham and cold spring veal--generous
slices of both, piled up like little mountains--and tea-cakes in like abundance.

They feasted daintily--exquisitely, as they did everything, but they feasted heartily for the
first time in months.

After supper they went to their room--a spacious and comfortably, though plainly, furnished
one, with a bright fire burning in a jolly little stove. Their spirits knew no bounds.

"What would Catalina say to this solid comfort, Sis?" queried Eddie. "I think she would faint
for joy."

For answer Virginia smiled upon him through a mist of tears.

"Why Virginia--my Heart--" he cried in amazement. "What is it?"

"Only that it is too beautiful!" she managed to say. "And to think that Muddie and Catalina
are not here to share it with us!"

"Just as soon as I can scrape together enough money to pay for Muddie's board and travelling
expenses we will have them with us," he assured her.

She dried her eyes and perched upon his knee while he went through his pockets and bringing
out all the money he had, counted it into her palm.

"Four dollars and a half," he said. "Not much, but we are fortunate to have that. And with
such fine living as we get here so cheap it will go quite a long way. Let me see--the price
of board and lodging is only three and a half a week for both of us. Seven dollars would pay
our way for a fortnight--and in a fortnight's time there's no telling what may turn up! Some
editor might buy 'The Raven,' or money due me for work already sold might come in. If I could
only contrive to raise this sum to seven dollars we could rest easy for at least a fortnight."

"I'll tell you how," said Virginia. "You have acquaintances here--hunt up some of them and
borrow three dollars. Then you would have enough to pay two weeks board ahead and fifty cents
over for pocket money."

"Wise little head!" exclaimed he, tapping her brow, "The very idea!"

And forthwith all care as to ways and means was thrown from both their minds, and they gave
themselves up to an evening of enjoyment of the comforts of their brown-stone mansion.

While Virginia was resting her husband went out for a little shopping to be done with part
of the fifty cents they had allowed themselves for spending money. First he exchanged a few
cents for a tin pan to be filled with water and placed on top of the stove, for the comfort
of Virginia who had been oppressed by the dry heat. Then a few cents more went for two buttons
his coat lacked, a skein of thread to sew them on with, and a skein of silk with which Virginia
would mend a rent in his trousers made by too close contact with a nail on deck of the steamboat.

Next day was a bright, beautiful, spring Sunday. The sky and budding trees had the newly-washed
aspect often seen after a season of rain. The sound of church-bells was on the air; the streets
were filled with people in their best clothes, and the new boarders in Greenwich Street, fortified
with a breakfast of ham and eggs and coffee, jubilantly joined that stream of humanity which
flowed toward the point above which Trinity Church spire pierced the clear sky.

       *       *       *       *       *

On Monday, Edgar Poe was taken with what he called a "writing fit." For several days (during
which Edgar Goodfellow remained in the ascendency) the fit remained on him, and he wrote incessantly--only
pausing long enough, now and then, to read the result to Virginia.

"This will earn us the money to bring Muddie and Catalina to New York," he said with confidence.

At last the manuscript was finished and no sooner was the ink dry upon the paper than he took
it to The Sun, which promptly bought and paid for it, and upon the next Sunday, April 13, printed
it not as a story, but as news.

"Astounding News by Express, via Norfolk!" (The headlines said).

Strange as it may seem, the "astounding news" was received by the people of New York for fact.
There was a rush for copies of the Sun which announced with truth that it was the only paper
in possession of the "news," and not until denial came from Charleston, several days later,
was it suspected that the "news" was all a hoax and that Edgar Goodfellow was simply having
a little fun at the expense of the public.

The story did, indeed, earn money with which to bring "Muddie" and "Catalina" to New York.
It did more--it brought the editors to Greenwich Street looking for manuscript. They begged
for stories as clever and as sensational as "The Balloon Hoax," but in vain.

It was in vain that the editors besought him to try something else in the vein of "The Balloon
Hoax," assuring him that that was what his readers were expecting of him, after his recent
"hit"--that was what they would be willing to pay him for--pay him well. Was it the Imp of
the Perverse that caused him to positively decline, and to persist that "Dreamland" was all
he had to offer just then?

It was Mr. Graham who finally accepted this quaint and beautiful poem, and who published it--in
the June number of Graham's Magazine.

       *       *       *       *       *

In October following the return of the Poes to New York--October of the year 1844--Mr. Nathaniel
P. Willis who was then editor of The Evening Mirror, and had been editor of The Dollar Magazine,
when it awarded the prize of a hundred dollars to "The Gold Bug," was seated at his desk in
the "Mirror" office, when in response to his "Come in," a stranger appeared in his doorway--a
woman--a lady in the best sense of a word almost become obsolete. A gentlewoman describes her
best of all. She was a gentlewoman, then, past middle age, yet beautiful with the high type
of beauty that only ripe years, beautifully lived, can bring--the beauty that compensates for
the fading of the rose on cheek and lip, the dimming of the light in the eyes, for the frost
on the brow--the beauty of patience, of tenderness, of faith unquenchable by fire or flood
of adversity. A history was written on the face--a history in which there was plainly much
of tragedy. Yet not one bitter line was there.

It was a face, withal, which could only have belonged to a mother, and might well have belonged
to the mother, Niobe.

In figure she was tall and stately, with a gentle dignity. Her dress was simple to plainness,
and might have been called shabby had it been less beautifully neat. It was of unrelieved black,
and she wore a conventional widow's bonnet, with floating white strings.

The reader needs no introduction to this stranger to Mr. Willis, who in a gentle, well-bred
voice, with a certain mournful cadence in it, announced herself as "Mrs. Clemm--the mother-in-law
of Mr. Poe."

No connection with a famous author was needed to inspire Mr. Willis with respect for his visitor.
She seemed to him to be an "angel upon earth," and it was with an air approaching reverence
that he handed her to the most comfortable chair the office afforded.

Her errand was quickly made known. Edgar Poe was ill and not able to come out himself. His
wife was an invalid, and so it devolved upon her to seek employment for him. In spite of his
fame, she said, and of his industry, his manuscripts brought him so little money that he was
in need of the necessities of life. Regular work with a regular income, however small, she
felt to be his only hope of being able to rise above want.

Mr. Willis was distressed and promptly offered all he could. It was not much, but it was better
than nothing--it was the place of assistant editor of his paper.

For months following, the figure of Edgar Poe was a familiar one in the office of the Evening
Mirror. Neither in his character of Edgar the Dreamer nor that of Edgar Goodfellow was he especially
known there, but simply as a modest, industrious sub-editor, doing the work of a mechanical
paragraphist as quietly, as unobtrusively, as a machine. With rarely a smile and rarely a word,
he stood from morning till night at his desk in a corner of the editorial room--pale, still
and beautiful as a statue, punctual and efficient and the embodiment of courtesy always.

And quietly and unobtrusively his personality made itself felt. Mr. Willis came to love him
for his innate charm and for his faithfulness to duty.

       *       *       *       *       *

But the desk of a sub-editor could not long hold a genius like Edgar Poe. He bore its drudgery
without complaint, but when an opening that seemed to invite his ambition, as well as to promise
better pay came, he hailed it with enthusiasm. In March of the next year he formed a partnership
with two New York journalists, as editors and managers of The Broadway Journal. A few months
later saw him sole proprietor as well as editor, and for a short, bright period his old dream
of a magazine of his own, in which he could write as he pleased, came true. Its realization
seemed to inspire him with new energy. How many heads, how many right hands had the man--his
readers asked each other--that he could turn out such a mass of work of such high order? His
own and many other of the magazines of the day were filled with reviews and criticisms that
made him the terror of other writers, and with stories and poems that made him the marvel of
readers everywhere.

His works were translated into the tongues of France, Germany and Spain, and his fame grew
in all of those countries.

Yet the most that he could afford in the way of a home was up two flights of stairs--two rooms
in the third story of a dingy old house in East Broadway. Mother Clemm and Virginia kept them
bright and spotless and "Catalina" dosing on the hearth gave a final touch of comfort, and
they were far above the noise and dust of the streets, with windows opening upon a goodly view
of the sky. They had a front and a back room, so that the beauties of the dawn and the noontide--of
sunset and moonrise--were all theirs.

And the Wolf came not near the door, and the three whose natures were like to the natures of
the oak, the vine and the heartsease, and who lived for each other only, dreamed again the
dream of the wonderful valley--the Valley of the Many-Colored Grass.

CHAPTER XXIX.

Up, up the stairs, two steps at a time, sprang The Dreamer, one white January day, and burst
in upon Mother Clemm who was preparing dinner, and Virginia who was mending his coat. He was
in a great glee. He caught "Muddie" in his arms where she stood with her hands deep in a tray
of dough, and kissed her, then stooped over Virginia and kissed her, and dropped into her lap
a crisp ten dollar bank note. She gave a little scream of delight.

"Where did you get it?" she cried?

"From Willis. I've sold him 'The Raven.' He's vastly taken with it and not only paid me the
ten, in advance, but will give the poem an editorial puff in the Mirror of the nineteenth.
He showed me a rough draft. He will say that it is 'the most effective example of fugitive
poetry ever published in this country,' and predict that it will 'stick in the memory of everybody
who reads it!'"

"And it will! It will!" cried Virginia. "Especially that 'Nevermore.' I've done everything
in time to it since the first night you read it to us."

"I've done everything in time to it since I was three years old," murmured her husband. He
drew the miniature from the inside pocket of his coat where he had carried it, close against
his heart, throughout his life, and gazed long upon it. In his grey eyes was the tender, brooding
expression which the picture always called forth. "Ever since I heard that word for the first
time from the lips of my old nurse when she took me in to see my mother robed for the grave,
my feet and my thoughts have kept time to it; and generally when my steps and my face have
been set toward hope and happiness it has risen before me like a wall, blocking my way."

Virginia arose from her chair letting her work and the bank note fall unheeded from her lap,
and went to him. Gently taking the miniature from his hands she restored it to its place in
his pocket and then with a hand on each of his shoulders lifted her eyes to his.

"Buddie," she said, calling him by the old pet name of their earliest days, "You frighten me
sometimes. The miniature is beautiful but it makes you so sad. And when you talk that way about
'The Raven,' I feel as if I could hear your tears dropping on my coffin-lid!" Then, with a
sudden change of mood, her laugh rang out, and she pressed her lips upon his.

"I'll have you know," she said, "I'm not dead yet, and you will not have to journey to any
'distant Aidenn' to 'clasp' me."

"No, thank God!" he breathed, crushing her to him.

       *       *       *       *       *

It was upon January 29, 1845, that "The Raven" appeared, with Willis's introductory puff. In
spite of Dr. Griswold and the staff of Graham's Magazine, it created an instant furor. It was
published and republished upon both sides of the Atlantic. To quote a contemporary writer,
everybody was "raven-mad" about it, except a few "waspish foes" who would do its author "more
good than harm."

It brought to the two bright rooms up the two flights of stairs visitors by the score, eager
to congratulate the poet, to make the acquaintance of his interesting wife and mother and to
assure all three of their welcome to homes approached by brown-stone steps.

And it brought letters by the score--some from the other side of the Atlantic. Among these
was one from Miss Elizabeth Barrett, soon to become the wife of Mr. Robert Browning.

"Your 'Raven' has produced a sensation here in England," she wrote. "Some of my friends are
taken by the fear of it, and some by its music. I hear of persons haunted by the 'Nevermore,'
and one of my friends who has the misfortune of possessing a bust of Pallas never can bear
to look at it in the twilight. Mr. Browning is much struck by the rhythm of the poem.

"Then there is that tale of yours, 'The Case of M. Valdemar,' throwing us all into a 'most
admired disorder,' and dreadful doubts as to whether 'it can be true,' as children say of ghost
stories. The certain thing in the tale in question is the power of the writer and the faculty
he has of making horrible improbabilities seem near and familiar."

Of all the letters from far and near, this was the one that gave The Dreamer most pleasure,
and as for Virginia and the Mother, they read it until they knew it by heart.

When, some months later, his new book, "The Raven and Other Poems," came out, its dedication
was, "To the noblest of her sex--Miss Elizabeth Barrett, of England."

       *       *       *       *       *

And there was joy in the two rooms up two flights of stairs where Edgar Poe sat at his desk
reeling off his narrow little strips of manuscript by the yard. His work filled The Broadway
Journal and overflowed into many other periodicals.

While he created stories and poems, he gave more attention than ever to the duties of his cherished
post as Defender of Purity of Style for American Letters, and the fame to which he had risen
giving him new authority, he made or marred the reputation of many a literary aspirant.

Exposition of plagiarism became a hobby with him, and his attacks upon Longfellow upon this
ground, brought on a controversy between him and the gentle poet which reached such a heat
that it was dubbed "The Longfellow War." All attempts of friends and fellow journalists to
make him more moderate in his criticisms were in vain; they seemed indeed, but to excite the
Imp of the Perverse, under whose influence he became more merciless than ever. An admirer of
this virtue carried to such an extreme that it became a serious fault, as it was assuredly
a grievous mistake, humorously characterized him in a parody upon "The Raven," containing the
following stanza:

    "Neither rank nor station heeding, with his foes around him bleeding,
    Sternly, singly and alone, his course he kept upon that floor;
    While the countless foes attacking, neither strength nor valor lacking,
    On his goodly armor hacking, wrought no change his visage o'er,
    As with high and honest aim he still his falchion proudly bore,
    Resisting error evermore."

Many of the "waspish foes" thus made turned their stings upon his private character, against
which there was already a secret poison working--the poison that fell from the tongue, and
the pen of Rufus Griswold. He had the ear of numbers of Edgar Poe's friends in the literary
world, and what time The Dreamer dreamed his dreams in utter ignorance of the unfriendliness
toward him of the big man whose big brain he admired, the big man watched for his chance to
insert the poison. It was invariably hidden in a coating of sugar. Poe was a wonderful genius,
he would declare, his imagination--his style--they were marvellous! Marvelous! His head was
all right, but--. The "but" always came in a lowered tone, full of commiseration, "but--his
heart!--Allowance should, of course, be made for his innate lack of principle--he should not
be held too responsible. His habits--well known to everyone of course!"

No--they were not even suspected, many of his listeners replied. Might not Dr. Griswold be
mistaken? they asked. Was it possible that an habitual drunkard could turn out such a mass
of brilliant and artistic work? And consider the exquisite neatness of his manuscript!

Peradventure the listener persisted in believing his informant mistaken--peradventure he at
once accepted the damaging statements; but in every case the poison had been administered,
and was at work.

       *       *       *       *       *

There was just one class among the writers of the day sacred from the attacks of Edgar Poe's
pen. Before almost everything else The Dreamer was chivalrous. The "starry sisterhood of poetesses"
and authoresses, therefore, escaped his criticisms. One of his contemporaries said of him that
he sometimes mistook his vial of prussic acid for his ink-pot. In writing of authors of the
gentle sex, his ink-pot became a pot of honey.

Several of these literary ladies living in New York had their salons, where they received,
upon regular days, their brothers and sisters of the pen, and at which The Dreamer became a
familiar figure.

"I meet Mr. Poe very often at the receptions," gossiped one of the fair poetesses in a letter
to a friend in the country. "He is the observed of all observers. His stories are thought wonderful
and to hear him repeat 'The Raven' is an event in one's life. People seem to think there is
something uncanny about him, and the strangest stories are told and what is more, believed,
about his mesmeric experiences--at the mention of which he always smiles. His smile is captivating!
Everybody wants to know him, but only a few people seem to get well acquainted with him."

Chief among the salons of New York was that of Miss Anne Charlotte Lynch--who was afterward
Mrs. Botta. An entré to her home was the most-to-be-desired social achievement New York could
offer, for it meant not only to know the very charming lady herself, but to meet her friends;
and she had drawn around her a circle made up of the persons and personages--men and women--best
worth knowing. She became one of The Dreamer's most intimate friends, and always made him and
his wife welcome at her "evenings." It was not long after "The Raven" had set the town marching
to the word "nevermore," that he made his first visit there--a visit which long stood out clear
in the memories of all present.

In the cavernous chimney a huge grate full of glowing coals threw a ruddy warmth into Miss
Lynch's spacious drawing-room. Waxen tapers in silver and in crystal candelabra, and in sconces,
filled the apartment with a blaze of soft light, lit up the sparkling eyes and bright, intellectual
faces of the assembled company, and showed to advantage the jewels and laces of the ladies
and the broadcloth of the gentlemen.

Miss Lynch stood at one end of the room between the richly curtained windows and immediately
in front of a narrow, gold-framed mirror which reached from the frescoed ceiling to the floor
and reflected her gracious figure to advantage. She was listening with interested attention
to Mr. Gillespie, the noted mathematician, whose talk was worth hearing in spite of the fact
that he stammered badly. His subject tonight happened to be the versatility of "Mr. P-P-Poe."

"He might have been an eminent m-m-mathematician if he had not elected to be an eminent p-p-poet,"
he was saying.

To her right Mr. Willis's daughter, Imogen, was flirting with a tall, lanky young man with
sentimental eyes, a drooping moustache and thick, straight, longish hair, whose lately published
ballad, "Oh, Don't You Remember Sweet Alice, Ben Bolt?" was all the rage.

To her left the Minerva-like Miss Margaret Fuller whose critical papers in the New York Tribune
were being widely read and discussed, was amiably quarreling with Mr. Horace Greely, and upon
a sofa not far away Mr. William Gilmore Simms, the novelist and poet, was gently disagreeing
with Mrs. Elizabeth Oakes Smith in her contention for Woman's Rights.

At the opposite end of the room a lovely woman in a Chippendale chair was the central figure
of a group of ladies and gentlemen each of whom hung upon her least word with an interest amounting
to affection. She was a woman who looked like a girl, for thirty years had been kind to her.
Glossy brown hair parted in the middle and brushed smoothly down in loops that nearly covered
her ears framed an oval face, with delicate, clear-cut features, pale complexion and eyes as
brown and melting as a gazelle's.

She was none other than Mrs. Frances Osgood, the author, or authoress, as she would have styled
herself, of "The Poetry of Flowers"--so much admired by her contemporaries--whose husband,
Mr. S.S. Osgood, the well known artist, had won her heart while painting her portrait.

Conspicuous in the group of literary lights surrounding her was Dr. Griswold in whose furtive
glance, had she been less free from guile, she might have read an admiration fiercer than that
of friendship or even of platonic love, and to whose fires she had unwittingly added fuel by
expressing admiration for his poems--Mr. Poe's opinion to the contrary.

Mr. Locke, author of "The Moon Hoax," was of the group; and the Reverend Ralph Hoyt, who was
a poet as well as a preacher; and Mr. Hart, the sculptor; and James Russell Lowell, who happened
to be in town for a few days; and Mr. Willis and his new wife; and Mrs. Embury whose volume
of verse, "Love's Token Flowers," was just out and being warmly praised; and George P. Morris,
Willis's partner in the Mirror, whose "Woodman, Spare that Tree!" and "We were Boys Together,"
had (touching a human chord) made him popular.

The beloved physician, Dr. Francis, seemed to be everywhere at once, as he moved about from
group to group with a kindly word for everybody--the candle-light falling softly upon his flowing
silver locks and his beaming, ruddy countenance.

Suddenly, there was a slight stir in the room--a cessation of talk--a turning toward one point.

"There is Mr. P-P-Poe now," said Mr. Gillespie to Miss Lynch, and followed her as, with out-stretched
hand and cordial smile, she hastened toward the door where stood the trim, erect, black-clad
figure of Edgar Poe, with his prominent brow and his big dreamy eyes, and his wife, pale as
a snow-drop after her many illnesses, and as lovely as one, and still looking like a child,
upon his arm.

Instant pleasure and welcome were written upon every face present save one, and even that quickly
assumed a smile as its owner came forward bowing and stooping in an excess of courtesy.

The pair became immediately the centre of attraction. Everybody wanted to have a word with
them. It made Virginia thoroughly happy to see "Eddie" appreciated, and she chatted blythely
and freshly with all--her spontaneous laugh bearing testimony to her enjoyment--while The Dreamer
yielded himself with his wonted modesty and grace to the hour--answering questions as to whether
he really did believe in ghosts and whether the experiments in mesmerism in his story, "The
Case of M. Valdemar" had any foundation in fact, with his captivating but enigmatic smile,
and a little Frenchified shrug of the shoulders.

It would have seemed at first that he had diverted attention from the fair author of "The Poetry
of Flowers" to himself, but erelong--no one knew just how it came to pass--Edgar Poe was sitting
upon an ottoman drawn close to the Chippendale chair, and the two lions were deep in earnest
and intimate conversation upon which no one else dared intrude. The furtive eye of Rufus Griswold
marked well the evident attraction between these two beautiful and gifted beings--poets--and
something like murder awoke in his heart.

The tete-a-tete was interrupted by Miss Lynch, who declared that she voiced the wish of all
present in requesting that Mr. Poe would recite "The Raven."

All the candles save enough to make (with the fire's glow) a dim twilight, were put out, and
the poet took his stand at one end of the long room.

A hush fell upon the company and in a quiet, clear, musical voice, he began the familiar words.

There was scarcely a gesture--just the motionless figure, the pale, classic face, which was
dim in the half-light, and the deep, rich voice.

Miss Lynch was the first to break the silence following the final "Nevermore." Moving toward
him with her easy, distinguished step, she thanked him in a few low-spoken words. Mrs. Osgood,
rising gracefully from her chair, followed her example, with Dr. Griswold at her heels, and
in a few moments more the whole room was in an awed and subdued hum.

The girl-wife came in for her share of the lionizing. Her appearance was in marked contrast
to that of the richly apparelled women about her. The simplest dress was the only kind within
her reach--for which she may have consoled herself with the thought that it was the kind that
most adorned her. She wore tonight a little frock made by her own fingers, of some crimson
woolen stuff, without a vestige of ornament save a bit of lace, yellow with age, at the throat.
Her hair was parted above the placid brow, looped over her ears and twisted in a loose knot
at the back of her head, in the prevailing fashion for a young matron; which with her youthful
face, gave her a most quaint and charming appearance.

Her husband's coat had seen long service, but it was neatly brushed and darned, and the ability
to wear threadbare clothing with distinction was not the least of Edgar Poe's talents. Beside
his worn, but cared-for apparel, costly dress often seemed tawdry.

       *       *       *       *       *

Out from the warmth and the light and the perfume and the luxury and the praise of the beautiful
drawing-room with its distinguished assemblage,--out into the streets of New York--into the
bleakness and the darkness of the winter's night--stepped Edgar Poe and his wife. Virginia
was wrapped against the cold in a Paisley shawl that had been one of Mother Clemm's bridal
presents, while Edgar wore the military cape he had at West Point and which, except in times
of unusual prosperity, had served him as a great-coat ever since.

Through the dimly-lit streets, slippery with ice, and wind-swept, they made their way to the
two rooms up two flights of stairs, where the Widow Clemm mended the fire with a few coals
at a time and sewed by a single candle, as she waited for them--the lion of the most distinguished
circle in America and his beautiful wife!

Back from a world of dreams created by a company of dreamers to the reality of an empty larder
and a low fuel pile and a dun from the landlord from whom they rented the two rooms.

"The Raven" had brought its author laurels in abundance, but only ten dollars in money. Editors
were clamoring for his work and he was supplying it as fast as one brain and one right hand
could; and some of them were sending their little checks promptly in return and some were promising
little checks some day; but The Broadway Journal had failed for lack of capital. It was the
old story. He had no regular income and the irregularly appearing little checks only provided
a from-hand-to-mouth sort of living for the three.

Yet they had their dreams. Landlords might turn them out of house and home but they were powerless
to deprive them of their dreams.

Mother Clemm's one candle was burning low--its light and that of the dying fire barely relieved
the room from darkness and did not prevent the rays of the newly arisen full moon from coming
through the lattice and pouring a heap of silver upon the bare floor.

"Look Muddie! Look Sissy!" cried the poet. "If we lived in a blaze of light, like your rich
folk, we should have to go out of doors to see the moon. Who says there are not compensations
in this life?"

CHAPTER XXX.

But it was not always possible to take a hopeful view. Continued poverty which oftentimes reached
the degree of positive want, anxiety for Virginia's health and inability to provide for her
the remedies and comforts he felt might preserve her life, were enough to arouse Edgar Poe's
blue devils, and they did.

Why detail the harassments of the rest of that winter, during which The Dreamer led a strange
double life--a life in the public eye of distinction, prosperity, popularity, but in private,
a hunted life--a life of constant dread of the wrath of a too long indulgent landlord or grocer--a
flitting from one cheap lodgement to another.

One gleam of genuine sunshine brightened the dreary days. The acquaintance with Frances Osgood
begun at Miss Lynch's salon soon ripened into close friendship. She found her way up the two
flights of stairs and Edgar and Virginia and the Mother received her with as ready courtesy
and welcome as though the two rooms that looked on the sky had been a palace. Her intimacy
became so complete--her understanding of, and sympathy with, the three who lived for each other
only so perfect that it was almost as if she had been admitted to the Valley of the Many-Colored
Grass.

Upon her The Dreamer bestowed in abundant measure that poetic love which the normal heart is
no more capable of feeling than the normal mind is capable of producing his poetry. A love
which was like his landscapes, not of this world or of the earth earthy--a love of the mind,
the imagination, the poetic faculty. A love whose desire was not to possess, but to kneel to.
In his rhapsodies over the phantasmal women his genius created or the real ones whose charm
he felt, it was never of flesh and blood beauty--of blooming cheek or rounded form--that he
sang, but of the expression of the eye, the tones of the voice, the graces and gifts of the
spirit and the intellect.

In return for this love he asked only sympathy--sympathy such as he drew from the sky and the
forest and the rock-bound lake and the winds of heaven--mood sympathy.

It was a love quite beyond the imagination of Rufus Griswold to conceive of, even. His furtive
eye was on the watch, his jealous heart was filled with foul surmises and he added a new poison
to the old, with which he was working, drop by drop, upon the good name of Edgar Poe.

Meantime the poet, harassed by troubles of divers kinds but innocent of the new poison as he
had been of the old, welcomed the intimacy of this congenial woman friend as balm to his tried
spirit; and delved away at his work.

Upon his desk one morning, were piled a number of the small rolls of narrow manuscript with
which the reader is familiar. These were a series of critical sketches entitled "The Literati
of New York," by which he hoped to keep the pot boiling some days. Virginia was listening for
a step on the stair, for she had written Mrs. Osgood a note that morning, begging her to come
to them, and she knew that she would respond. The door opened and the slight, graceful figure
and delicate face with the gentle eyes, she looked for, appeared.

"What are all these?" asked the visitor, when she had embraced Virginia warmly and when the
poet had, after bowing over her hand, which he lightly touched with his lips, led her to a chair.

Her eyes were fixed upon the pile of manuscripts.

"One of them is yourself, Madam," replied the poet.

"Myself?" she questioned, in amazement.

He bowed, gravely. "Yourself--as one of the Literati of New York. In each one of these one
of you is rolled up and discussed. I will show you by the difference in their length the varying
degrees of estimation in which I hold you literary folk. Come Virginia, and help me!"

The fair visitor smiled as they drew out to the full length roll after roll of the manuscript--letting
them fly together again as if they had been spiral springs. The largest they saved for the
last. The poet lifted it from its place and gave an end to his wife and like two merry, laughing
children they ran to opposite corners, stretching the manuscript diagonally across the entire
space between.

"And whose 'linked sweetness long drawn out' is that?" asked the visitor.

"Hear her!" cried Edgar Goodfellow who was in the ascendent for the first time in many a long
day. "Hear her! Just as if her vain little heart didn't tell her it's herself!"

But the moment of playfulness was a rarity, and all the more enjoyed for that.

The papers came out in due course, serially, and created a new sensation and brought their
little reward, but they also plunged their author into a succession of unsavory quarrels. As
each one appeared, it was looked for with eagerness and read with intense interest by the public,
but frequently with as intense anger by the subject.

Perhaps the most caustic of all the critiques was the one upon the work of Mr. Thomas Dunn
English, whom Poe contemptuously dubbed, "Thomas Done Brown."

Mr. English bitterly retorted with an attack upon his critic's private character. A fierce
controversy followed in which English became so abusive that Poe sued and recovered two hundred
and twenty-five dollars damages--which goes to prove that even an ill wind can blow good.

Long after the papers had been published the scene of playful idleness, with all its holiday
charm, when Edgar Poe drew out the strips of manuscript in which were rolled up "The Literati
of New York" remained in Mrs. Osgood's memory, and in his own. To him it was indeed a gleam
of brightness amid a throng of "earnest woes," a season of calm in a "tumultous sea."

But, as been said, why dwell upon the details of that bleak, despairing winter? Spring brought
a change which makes a more pleasant picture.

       *       *       *       *       *

Ever since they had left Philadelphia the Poes had clung, in memory, to the rose-embowered
cottage in Spring Garden. There, they told each other, they had a home to their minds. It was
the dear "Muddie," their ever faithful earthly Providence to whom they were already so deeply
indebted, who discovered in the suburb of Fordham, a tiny cottage which had much of the charm
of which they dreamed--even to the infinitesimal price for which it could be rented.

It was only a story and a half high, but there was a commodious and cheerful room down stairs,
with four windows, and from the narrow hallway a quaint little winding stair led to an attic
which though its roof was low and sloping contained a room large enough to serve the double
purpose of bed-chamber and study.

There was a pleasant porch across the front of the cottage which would make an ideal summer
sitting-room and study, when the half-starved rose-bush upon it should have been nursed and
trained to screen it from the sun.

The cottage stood upon a green hill, half-buried in cherry trees--just then in full bloom and
filled with bird-song. Nearby was a grove of pines and a short walk away was the Harlem River,
with its picturesque, high, stone bridge. It was an abode fit to be in Paradise, Edgar told
Virginia and the Mother, and within a few days they and their few small possessions--including
Catalina--were as well established there as if they had never known any other home.

The moving in recalled the earliest days of their life at Spring Garden. Again "Muddie" was
busy, not with soap and water only, but with the whitewash brush. Again their hearts were blythe
with the pleasing sense of change--of the opening up of a new vista of there was no knowing
what happiness--just as children welcome any change for the change itself, always expecting
to find pleasant surprises upon a new and untried road.

But there was a difference in themselves since the moving into the Spring Garden Cottage, which
had been so gradual that they were scarcely conscious of it. The years since then lay heavily
upon them. They showed plainly in the deepened lines in Mother Clemm's face, in the deepened
anxiety in her Mater Dolorosa eyes, in the frost upon the locks that peeped from under her
immaculate widow's cap. They showed in the fragile figure of Virginia--once so full of sweet
curves;--in the ethereal look that had come into the once rounded cheeks and full pouting lips,
in the transparency of her skin and in the sweet eyes that when not filled with the merry laughter
that had through thick and thin filled her dwelling place with sunshine and music, had a faraway
expression in them, as if they were looking into another world.

They showed most of all in The Dreamer himself. To him these years had been years of fierce
battle; battle, not for wealth, but for bread; battle not so much for selfish ambition as for
his country, and in a high sense--for he had fought valiantly to win a place for America in
the world of letters; battle with himself--with the devils that sought mastery over his spirit--the
devil of excitement and exhilaration that lay in the bottom of the cup, the devil of blessed
forgetfulness, accompanied by magical dreams that dwelt in the heart of the poppy, the devil
of melancholy and gloom to whom he felt a certain charm in yielding himself, the devil of restlessness
and dissatisfaction with whatsoever lay within his grasp--a dog-and-shadow sort of desire to
drop the prize in hand in a chase after that of his vision,--the impish devil of the perverse.

At times he had been victorious, at other times there had been defeat. But always the warfare
had been fierce and the scars remained to tell the story. They remained in the emaciation and
the deep lines of his still beautiful face; remained in the drooping curves of the mouth; remained
above all in the ineffable sadness of the large, deep, luminous eyes.

Yet that sweet spring day when the three were moving into Fordham cottage, the years that had
wrought upon them thus were as they had not been.

Their little possessions had dwindled pitifully. Virginia's golden harp that had been the glory
of the sitting-room was gone to pay a debt. One by one others of their household gods had provided
bread. But the spurt of prosperity the damages recovered in the "Thomas Done Brown" suit brought,
made possible a new checked matting for the sitting-room floor and so bright and clean did
it look that they felt it almost furnished the room of itself. It would mean much to them in
saving the dear Mother the most laborious feature of her labor. It was a more difficult matter
than formerly for her to get down upon her knees to scrub the floor and it had become impossible
for the frail Virginia to help her in such work; yet as long as the floor was bare she had
kept it as spotless and nearly as white as new fallen snow. When the matting had been laid,
Eddie took her beautiful worn hands in his and kissed first one and then the other.

"No more scrubbing of the sitting-room floor, dear hands," he playfully said.

In addition to the matting there were in the way of furnishings only a few chairs, some book-shelves,
a picture or two, vases for flowers, some sea-shells, and, of course, Edgar's desk. Above the
desk hung the pencil-sketch of "Helen" from which somehow, he was always able to draw inspiration.
Sometimes the wings of his imagination would droop, his pen would halt. In desperation he would
look up at the picture.--Could it be (he would ask himself) that her spirit had come to dwell
in this representation of her which he had made from memory? Her eyes seemed to look at him
through the eyes in the picture--the past came back to him as it sometimes did when the mingled
scent of magnolias and roses on the summer night air placed him back beneath her window.

From this portrait of the lovely dead upon the wall, from the miniature of the lovely dead
that he carried always next his heart, and from the lovely being who walked, in life, by his
side, but toward whose bosom death had this long time pointed a warning finger, came all his
inspiration in the new, as in each of the old homes.

Upstairs, close under the sloping roof, was the bare bed-room, barer than the one below--for
there was no checked matting upon the floor, and there were only such pieces of furniture as
were an absolute necessity; but against a small window in the end of the room leaned a great
cherry-tree. The windows were open and the faint fragrance of the blossoms floated in with
the song and gossip of the nesting birds. Edgar and Virginia laughed together like happy children
and told each other that they would "play" that their room under the roof was a nest in the
tree--which was so much more poetical than living in an attic.

And roundabout the cottage on the green hill, with its screen of blossoming cherry trees and
(hardby) its dusky grove of Heaven-kissing pines, and its views of the river and walk leading
to the stone-arched bridge, the three who lived for each other only had erelong reconstructed
the wonderful dream-valley--the Valley of the Many-Colored Grass.

And the cottage at Fordham became a Mecca to the "literati of New York," even as the cottage
at Spring Garden had been a Mecca to the literati of Philadelphia. Among those who made pilgrimages
thither were many of the "starry sisterhood of poetesses"--chief of whom was the fair Frances
Osgood. Yet in his retirement The Dreamer enjoyed for the first time since he had left Spring
Garden long intervals of relief from company, and in the pine-wood and on the bridge overlooking
the river, he found what his soul had long hungered for--silence and solitude. Under their
influence he conceived the idea of a new work--a more ambitious work than anything he had hitherto
attempted--a work in the form of a prose poem upon no less subject than "The Universe," whose
deep secrets it was designed to reveal, with the title "Eureka!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Ah, Dreamer, could we but call the curtain here!--Could we but leave you in your cottage on
the hill-top, overlooking the river, with the trees full of blossom and music about it, and
the wood inviting your fancy, where as you pace back and forth with your hands clasped behind
you your great deep eyes are filled with the mellow light that illumines them when they are
turned inward exploring the treasures of your brain--leave you deep in the high joy of meditation
upon God's Universe!

But "the play is the tragedy, 'Man,'" and it is only for the dread "Conqueror" to give the
word, "Curtain down--lights out!"

CHAPTER XXXI.

All too soon the Wolf scratched at the door of the cottage on Fordham Hill. All too soon the
shadow that had so often enveloped the rose-embowered cottage in Spring Garden--the shadow
from the wing of the Angel of Death--fell upon the cottage among the cherry trees.

The Dreamer sat before his desk under the picture of "Helen," for hours and hours, or when
Virginia was too ill to be up, at a little table beside her bed in the chamber which was like
a nest in a tree. In fair weather and foul the stately figure and sorrowful eyes of Mother
Clemm were to be seen upon the streets of New York as she went about offering the narrow rolls
of manuscript for sale as fast as they were finished, or trying to collect the little, over-due
checks from those already sold and published. Yet, with all they could do, had it not been
for the generous gifts of friends the three must needs have succumbed to cold and hunger. And
all the time the poison that fell from Rufus Griswold's tongue was at work. Even the visits
of the angels of mercy who ministered to him and his invalid wife in this their darkest hour
were made, by the working of this poison, to appear as things of evil. How was one of the furtive
eye and the black heart of a Rufus Griswold to understand love of woman of which reverence
was a chief ingredient?

These ministering angels--Mrs. Osgood, Mrs. Gove, Mrs. Marie Louise Shew, and others whose
love for the racked and broken Dreamer and for herself Virginia so perfectly understood--Virginia
the guileless, with her sense for spiritual things and her warm, responsive heart--brought
to the cottage not only encouragement and sympathy, but medicines and delicacies which were
offered in such manner that even one of Edgar Poe's sensitive pride could accept them without
shame.

Summer passed, and autumn, and winter drew on--filling the dwellers in Fordham cottage with
fear of they knew not what miseries. There had been ups and downs; there had been happiness
and woe; there had been times of strength and times of weakness--of weakness when The Dreamer,
unable to hold out in the desperate battle of life as he knew it; hungry, cold and heartbroken
at the sight of his wife with that faraway look in her eyes, had fallen--had sought and found
forgetfulness only to know a horrible awakening that was despair and that was oftentimes accompanied
by illness. Now, there was added to every thing else the knowledge that she--his wife--his
heartsease flower, and the Mother, in spite of all his striving for them, were objects of charity.

When some of his friends, in the kindness of their hearts, published in one of the papers an
appeal to the admirers of Edgar Poe's work for aid for him and his family in their distress,
he came out in a proud denial of their need for aid. The need was great enough, God knows!--but
the pitiful exposure was more painful than the pangs of cold and hunger.

       *       *       *       *       *

At last the day drew near of whose approach all who had visited the cottage knew but of which
they had schooled themselves not to think.

January 1847 was waning. For many days the ground had not been seen. The branches of the cherry
trees gleamed--not with flowers, but with icicles--as they leaned against the windows of the
bed-chamber under the roof. Sometimes as the winter blast stirred them, they knocked against
the panes with a sound the knuckles of a skeleton might have made. There was not the slightest
suggestion of the soft-voiced "Ligeia" in that harsh, horrible sound.

Upon the bed the girl-wife lay well nigh as still and as white as the snow outside. Now and
again she coughed--a weak, ghostly sort of cough. Over her wasted body, in addition to the
thin bed-clothing, lay her husband's old military cape. Against her breast nestled Catalina,
purring contentedly while she kept the heart of her mistress warm a little longer. Near the
foot of her bed the Mother sat--a more perfect picture than ever of the Mater Dolorosa--chafing
the tiny cold feet; at the head her husband bent over her and chafed her hands. About the room,
but not near enough to intrude upon the sacred grief of the stricken mother and husband, sat
several of the good women whose friendship had been the mainstay of the three. Through the
window, gaining brilliance from the ice-laden branches outside, fell the rays of the setting
sun, glorifying the room and the bed. Scarce a word was spoken, but upon the request of the
dying girl for music one of the visitors began to sing in low, tremulous tones, the beautiful
old hymn, "Jerusalem the Golden." To the man, bowed beneath his woe as it had been a physical
weight, the words came as a knell, and a blacker despair than ever settled upon his wild eyes
and haggard face. To his dying wife they were a promise--the smile upon her lip and the look
of wonder in her eyes showed that she was already beholding the glories of which the old hymn told.

And so wandered her spirit out of the cold and the want and the gloom that had darkened and
chilled the Valley of the Many-Colored Grass, into the regions of "bliss beyond compare."

But her husband, left behind, was as the man in his own story, "Silence," who sat upon a rock--the
gray and ghastly rock of "Desolation." "With his brow lofty with thought and his eyes wild
with care and the fables of sorrow and weariness and disgust with mankind written in furrows
upon his cheek," he sat upon the lonely grey rock and leaned his head upon his hand and looked
out upon the desolation. She was no more--no more!--the maiden who lived with no other thought
than to love and be loved by him;--his wife--in all the storm and stress of his troubled life
his true heartsease!

Out of the desolation he perceived a thing that was formless, that was invisible--but that
was appalling--silence. Silence that made him shrink and quake--he that had loved, had longed
for silence! Silence would crush him now. And solitude!--how often he had craved it! He had
solitude a plenty now.

Like a hunted animal, he looked about for a refuge from the Silence and the Solitude that gave
him chase, but he knew that however fast he might flee they would be hard on his heels.

How white she was--and how still! Nevermore to hear the sounds of her low sweet voice, nevermore
to hear her merry laughter, nevermore her light foot-step that--like her voice and her laugh--was
music to his ears! Nevermore!--for she was wrapped in the Silence--the last great silence of all.

Nevermore would she sit beside him as he worked, or plant flowers about the door, or lay her
hand in his and explore with him the wonderful dream-valley; nevermore lay her sweet lips upon
his or raise the snow-white lids from her eyes and shine on him from under their long, jetty
fringes. Henceforth a Solitude as vast as the Silence would be his portion.

Their sweet friend Marie Louise Shew robed her for the tomb and over the snow they bore her
to rest in a vault in the village churchyard.

Then, for many weeks Edgar Poe lay in the bed-chamber under the roof, desperately ill--for
the most part unconscious. The mother bereaved of her child had no time to give herself over
to mourning, for as she had wrestled with death for the possession of a son when he was first
given into her keeping, even more fiercely did she wrestle now that he must be son and daughter
too. The kind friends who had made Virginia's last days comfortable aided her in the battle,
and finally the victory was won,--pale, shaken, wraith-like, the personification of woe made
beautiful--The Dreamer came forth into the air of heaven once more, and as spring opened was
to be seen, as of old, walking among the pines or beside the river.

And ever and anon his clear-cut, chastened features and his great, solemn eyes were turned
skyward--especially at night when the heavens were sown with stars; for from some one of those
bright worlds, peradventure, would she whose absence made the Solitude and the Silence be looking
down upon him. And as he gazed and dreamed, high thoughts took form in his brain--thoughts
of the "Material and Spiritual Universe; its Essence, its Origin, its Creation, its Present
Condition and its Destiny,"--thoughts to be made into a book dedicated to "Those who feel rather
than to those who think--to the dreamers and those who put faith in dreams as in the only realities"--thoughts
for his projected work, "Eureka!" Out of the Silence and the Solitude came the development
and completion of this strange prose poem.

Like an uneasy spirit he wandered, night and day, up and down the river bank, in the wood or
in the churchyard that held the tomb of his Virginia.

Meanwhile the Mother still kept the cottage bright. She asked no questions when he went forth,
night or day, or when he came in, night or day; but her heart bled for him and sometimes when
he would throw himself into a deep chair and sit by the hour, seemingly staring at nothing,
but really (she knew by the harassed and brooding look in the great, deep eyes) "dreaming dreams
no mortal ever dared to dream before," she would steal gently to his side and with her long,
slim, expressive fingers stroke the large brow until natural sleep brought respite from painful
memories. Her ministrations were grateful to him, yet he was barely conscious of her presence.
Not even for her, and far less for any other human being, did he feel kinship at this time.
His vision, when not turned within, looked far beyond human companionship to the wonders of
the universe--the stars and the mountains and the forests and the rivers; but his only real
companion was his own stricken heart.

Yet as the back is fitted to the burden and the wind tempered to the shorn lamb, so again,
as in his early griefs, the sorrow of The Dreamer was not all pain, there was an element of
beauty--of poetry--in it that made it possible to be endured. Out of the depths of the Solitude
and the Silence he said to his soul,

"It is a happiness to wonder--it is a happiness to dream." And more than ever before in his
life his whole existence had become a dream--the realities being mere shadows.

To dream, to wonder, to work; to work, to wonder, to dream--thus were the hours, the hours
of sorrow, spent. The hours of which the poet lost all count, for between his dreams and his
work so intensely full were the hours of vivid mental living that each day was as a lifetime
in itself.

And as he wandered under the pines or along the river, wrapped in his dreams and wondering
thoughts of heaven and earth, or leaned from the window of the chamber under the low sloping
roof--the chamber that had been the chamber of death--and looked beyond the embowering cherry
trees upon the sky; or at dead of night sat under his lamp pondering over his books--always,
everywhere, he listened--listened for the voice and the foot-falls of Virginia as he had listened
in his earlier days for the voice and the footfalls of the mythical "Ligeia."

       *       *       *       *       *

And so the green spring and the flowery summer passed, and autumn drew on.

Then came a day of days--a soft October day when merely to exist was to be happy and to hope.
And new life, like some sweet, rejuvenating cordial seemed to enter and course through the
veins of The Dreamer and for the first time since the Silence and the Solitude had enveloped
the cottage he laughed as he flung wide the windows of the chamber that had been the chamber
of death, to let in the day. And as he looked forth he said, again quoting the words of his
"Morella,"

"The winds lie still in heaven. There is a dim moisture over all the earth and a warm glow
upon the waters, and upon the forest a rainbow--a bow of promise--from the firmament has surely
fallen. It is not a day for sorrow but for joy, for it is a day out of Aidenn itself, and I
feel that ere it has passed I shall hold sweeter, more real communion with her that is in Aidenn
than ever before."

He went forth and wandered through the radiance of that perfect day hours on hours, and as
he paced the solemn aisles of the pine wood, or strolled along the river walk which was veiled
in a golden haze and carpeted thick with the yellow and crimson and brown leaves of October,
he heard, clearly, the sound of the swinging of the censers of the angels, as his senses were
bathed in the holy perfume, and the zephyrs that blew about his brow were laden with audible
sweet murmurs.

As evening fell a pleasant languor possessed his limbs--a wholesome weariness from his long
wanderings--and he lay down upon a bank littered with fallen leaves and slept. And as he slept
in the fading light, the spirit of Virginia approached him more nearly--more tangibly--than
ever before; and finally, when the red sun had sunk into the river, and when the afterglow
in the sky and the rainbow that lay upon the forest were alike blotted out by the shadows of
night, and the moon--a lustrous blur through the haze--wandered uncertainly up the sky, she
drew nearer and nearer, and pressed a fluttering kiss--such a kiss as a butterfly might bestow
upon a flower--upon his lips; then, sighing, drew away.

The sleeper awoke with a start--a start of heavenly bliss followed by instant pain--for as
he peered into the night he saw that he was alone--with the Silence and the Solitude. The winds
lay still in heaven and bore him no whisper or sigh. The perfume from the censers of the angels
still filled the air, but he was conscious of a great void--a pain unbearable. The kiss had
awakened a thousand thronging memories; the kiss had robbed of their charm the elusive perfume,
and the ghostly whisper of fluttering garments, and the shadowy foot-falls, and the faint,
faraway sighs. Henceforth these would cease to satisfy. The kiss had made him know the want
of his heart for love and companionship, such as the living Virginia had given him.

He listened and listened, but the winds lay still in heaven, and he was alone with the Silence--the
dread Silence--and the heart-hunger, and the despair.

Then he arose from his bed of withered and sere leaves and as one distraught, wandered through
the shadows of the misty, weird night. In the wood and by the waters he wandered, while the
night wore on and the moon held its way--still a lustrous blur in the heavens.

On, on he wandered, seeking peace for his soul and finding none, till the moon was out and
the stars fainted in the twilight of the approaching day, when lo, above the end of the path
through the wood, the morning star--"Astarte's bediamonded crescent"--arose upon his vision!

And as he gazed with wonder and delight upon the beautiful star, hope was born anew in his
heart, for he said,

"It is the Star of Love!"

He that had always looked for signs in the skies, had he not found one? What could it mean,
this rising of the Star of Love upon the hour of his bitterest need but a sign of hope, of peace?

Vainly did his soul upbraid him and warn him not to trust the beacon--to fly from its alluring
light and cast aside its spell. All deaf to the warning, he eagerly followed the star which
promised renewal of hope and love and relief from the Solitude and the Silence--the desolation
that the kiss had made so real and intolerable.

But alas, as he wandered on and on, his eyes upon the star, his feet following blindly, without
marking the path into which they had turned, his progress was suddenly checked. Through the
misty twilight of the approaching dawn there loomed an obstacle to his steps. It was with horror
unspeakable that he recognized the vault in which lay, in her last sleep, his loved Virginia....

    "Then his heart it grew ashen and sober
    As the leaves that were crispéd and sere,--
    As the leaves that were withering and sere!"

The Star of Love was fading in the eastern sky and through the ghostly dawn he turned and fled
aghast to the cottage among the cherry trees.

       *       *       *       *       *

Mother Clemm who had lain waiting and watching for him all night arose from her uneasy couch
when she heard the latch of the gate lifted, and opened the door. He came in and walked past
her like a wraith. His eyes were wild, his face was bloodless and haggard, his hair damp and
disordered. The Mother's eyes were filled with dumb pain. He suffered her to take his hand
in hers and to gaze into his eyes with pity and even raised the hand that held his own to his
lips, as though to reassure her; but he spake no word--made no attempt at explanation--and
she asked no questions.

For a moment he remained beside her, then straight to his desk he walked and began arranging
writing materials before him, while she disappeared into the kitchen and started a blaze under
a pot of coffee that stood upon the little stove.

       *       *       *       *       *

After that eventful night a change came over him that sat upon the Rock of Desolation. The
Solitude and the Silence still enfolded him, but the Star of Love had arisen in his firmament,
ushering in a new day and new hope to his soul. And he no longer trembled as he sat upon the
rock, but with new energy he worked and with exceeding patience he waited. And as he worked
interest in life returned to him, and ambition returned.

One day he copied "Ulalume" upon a long, narrow slip of paper and rolled it into one of the
tight little rolls that all the editors knew and Mother Clemm made a pilgrimage to the city
especially on account of it. First she tried it at The Union Magazine, which promptly rejected
it. It was too "queer" the editor said. But The American Review agreed to take it and to print
it without signature--for this poem must be published anonymously, if at all, the poet insisted.
It soon afterward appeared and Mr. Willis copied it into the next number of The Home Journal
with complimentary editorial comment.

The result was a new sensation--the reader everywhere declared himself to be brought under
a magic spell by the words of this remarkable poem--though he frankly owned that he did not
in the least understand them; which was as Edgar Poe intended.

       *       *       *       *       *

Even the old dream of founding a magazine returned and possessed him as it had so often possessed
him before. It was in the interest of the magazine, which he still proposed to name The Stylus,
that he determined to give his new work, "Eureka!" as a lecture, in various places. He did
give it once--in New York--coming out of his seclusion for the first time, upon a frosty February
night. The rhapsody, delivered in his low but musical and dramatic tones, thrilled his audience,
but it was a small audience, and when soon afterward, the work was published by the Putnams
it was a small number of copies that was sold.

And again Edgar Poe was desperately poor. Yet he had seen the Star of Love--"Astarte's bediamonded
crescent"--usher in a new morning; and he waited and worked in hope.

CHAPTER XXXII.

Autumn with its enchanted October night, and winter filled with work and spent in deep seclusion
at Fordham, and spring with its revival of plans for The Stylus, and the appearance of "Eureka!"
as a book, and its author's return to the world as a lecturer, slipped by.

About midsummer The Dreamer lay a night in the old town of Providence. It was a warm night
and the window of his room was open--letting in a flood of light from the full moon. He leaned
from the window which looked upon a plot of flowers whose many odors rising, enveloped him
in incense sweet as the incense from the censers of the angels when the spirit of his Virginia
was near. But it was not of Virginia that the fragrance told him tonight. Something about the
blended odors, combined with the sensuous warmth of the night and the light of the moon, transported
him suddenly, magically, back through the years to his boyhood and to the little room in the
Allan cottage on Clay Street, hanging, like this room, over a space of flowers--the night following
the day when he had first seen Rob Stanard's mother.

Back, back into the long dead past he wandered! The broken and jaded Edgar Poe was dreaming
again the dream of the fresh, enthusiastic boy, Edgar Poe.

How every incident of that day and night stood out in his memory! He could feel again the wonder
that he felt when he saw the beautiful "Helen" standing against the arbor-vitæ in the garden;
could see her graceful approach to meet and greet him--the lonely orphan boy--could hear her
gracious words in praise of his mother while she held his hand in both her own. As he lived
it all over again, with the silver moonlight enfolding him and the breath of the flowers filling
his nostrils, a clock somewhere in the house struck the night's noon hour. He started--even
so it had been that other night in the long past. He half believed that if he should go forth
into this night as he had gone into that he should see once more the lady of his dream, with
the lamp in her hand, framed in the ivy-wreathed window, and seeing, worship as he had worshipped
then.

Scarce knowing what he did, he arose and hurrying down the stair was in the street. The streets
were strange to him but there was a pleasant sense of adventure in wandering through them--he
knew not whither--and the sweet airs of the flowers were everywhere.

Suddenly he stopped. While all the town slept there was one beside himself, who kept vigil.
Clad all in white, she half reclined upon a violet bank in an old garden where the moon fell
on the upturned faces of a thousand roses and on her own, "upturned,--alas, in sorrow!"

Faint with the beauty and the poetry of the scene he leaned upon the gate of the

              "enchanted garden
    Where no wind dared to stir unless on tiptoe."

All was lost to his vision--

    "Save only the divine light in those eyes--
    Save but the soul in those uplifted eyes."

       *       *       *       *       *

He continued to gaze until the moon disappeared behind a bank of cloud and he watched the white-robed
figure glide away like "a ghost amid the entombing trees." Yet still (it seemed to him) the
eyes remained. They lighted his lonely footsteps home that night and he told himself that they
would light him henceforth, through the years.

Nearly a year had passed since that October night when the Star of Love ushering in a new morning
had prophesied to him of new hope--nearly a year through which he had waited patiently, but
not in vain. The time had evidently come for the prophecy to be fulfilled and Fate had led
him to this town and the spot in this town where she that was to be (he was convinced) the
hope, the guide, the savior, of his "lonesome latter years" awaited him.

Who was she?--

So spirit-like, so ethereal, she seemed, as robed in white and veiled in silvery moon-beams
she sat among the slumbering roses, and as she was gathered into the shadows of the entombing
trees, that she might almost have been the "Lady Ligeia." Yet he knew that she was not. The
"Lady Ligeia" had been but the creation of his own brain. Very fair she had been to his dreaming
vision, very sweet her companionship had been to his imagination--sufficient for all the needs
of his being in his youthful days when sorrow was but a beautiful sentiment, when "terror was
not fright, but a tremulous delight" but how was such an one as she to bind up the broken heart
of a man? It was the human element in the eyes of her that sat among the roses that enchained
him. Ethereal--spirit-like--as she was, the eyes upturned in sorrow were the eyes of no spirit,
but of a woman; from them looked a human soul with the capacity and the experience to offer
sympathy meet for human needs--the needs even, of a broken-hearted man.

How dark the woe!--how sublime the hope!--how intense the pride!--how daring the ambition!--how
deep, how fathomless the capacity for love!--that looked (as from a window) from those eyes
upturned in sorrow, in the moonlight while all the town slept!

Who was she?--this lady of sorrows. And by what sweet name was she known to the citizens of
this old town?--Surely Fate that had brought her to the bank of violets beneath the moon--Fate
that had led him to her garden gate, would in Fate's own time reveal!

       *       *       *       *       *

As Helen Whitman flitted as noiselessly as the ghost she seemed to be up the dark stairway
to her chamber, and without closing the casement that admitted the moonlight and the garden's
odors, lay down upon her canopied bed, she trembled. What was it that she had been aware of
in the garden?--that presence--that consciousness of communion between her spirit and his upon
whom all her thoughts had dwelt of late? Herself a poet, from her earliest knowledge of the
work of Edgar Poe she had seemed to feel a kinship between her mind and his such as she had
known in regard to no other. She had followed his career step by step, and out of the many
sorrows of her own life had been born deep sympathy for him. Since his last, greatest blow,
she had more than ever mourned with him in spirit, for she too was widowed--she too had sat
upon the Rock of Desolation and knew the Silence and the Solitude.

She and The Dreamer had at least one mental trait in common--a tendency toward spiritualism--a
more than half belief in the communion of the spirits of the dead with those of the living
and of those of the living with each other.

What had led her into the moonlit garden when all the world slept?

She knew not. She only knew that she had felt an impelling influence--a call to her spirit--to
come out among the slumbering roses. She had not questioned nor sought to define it. She had
heard it, and she had obeyed. And then the presence!--

She had never seen Edgar Poe, yet she felt that he had been there in the spirit, if not in
the flesh--she had felt his eyes upon her eyes and she had half expected him to step from the
shadows around her and to say,

"I, upon whom your thoughts have dwelt--I, who am the comrade and the complement of your inner
life--I, whose spirit called to you ere you came into the garden--I am here."

       *       *       *       *       *

It was almost immediately upon The Dreamer's return to Fordham, and when he was still under
the spell of the night at Providence, that the identity of the lady of the garden was revealed
to him, in a manner seemingly accidental, but which he felt to be but another manifestation
of the divinity that shapes our ends. Some casual words concerning the appearance and character
of Mrs. Whitman, spoken by a casual visitor, lifted the curtain.

So the lady of the garden was Helen Whitman! whose poetry had impressed him favorably and whose
acquaintance he had desired. Helen Whitman--Helen! As he repeated the name his heart stood
still,--even in her name he heard the voice of Fate. Helen--the name of the good angel of his
boyhood! Were his dreams of "Morella" and of "Ligeia" to come true? Was he to know in reality
the miracle he had imagined and written of in these two phantasies?--the reincarnation of personal
identity? Was he in this second Helen, in this second garden, to find again the worshipped
Helen of his boyhood?

He turned to the lines he had written so long ago, in Richmond, when he had gone forth into
the midsummer moonlight, even as he had gone forth in Providence, and had worshipped under
a window, even as he had worshipped at a garden gate. He read the first two stanzas through.

As he read he gave himself up to an overwhelming sense of fatality. Could anything be more
fitting--more descriptive? The end of the days of miracles was not yet--this was his "Helen
of a thousand dreams!"

His impulse was to seek an introduction at once, but this seemed too tamely conventional. Besides--he
was in the hands of Fate--he dared not stir. Fate, having so clearly manifested itself, would
find a way.

His correspondence was always heavy. Letters, clippings from papers and so forth, came to him
by every post from friends and from enemies, with and without signatures. Yet from all the
mass, he knew at once that the "Valentine," unsigned as it was, was from her.

By way of acknowledgment, he turned down a page of a copy of "The Raven and Other Poems" at
the lines, "To Helen," and mailed it to her. He waited in anxious suspense for a reply, but
the lady was coy. Days passed and still no answer. The desire for communication with her became
irresistible and taking pen and paper he wrote at the top of the page, even as long ago he
had written, the words, "To Helen," and underneath wrote a new poem especially for this new
Helen in which he described the vision of her in the garden (but placing it in the far past)
and his feelings as he gazed upon her:

    "I saw thee once--once only--years ago;
    I must not say how many--but not many. ...

The paper trembled in the hands--tiny and spirit-like--of Helen Whitman. Her soul answered
emphatically,

"It is Fate!"

So he had been there in the flesh--near her--in the shadows of that mystic night! The presence
was no creation of an overwrought imagination. It was Fate.

Tremulously she penned her answer to his appeal, but was it Fate again, which caused the letter
to miscarry? It reached him finally, in Richmond--Richmond, of all places!--whither he had
gone to deliver to audiences of his old friends, his lecture upon "The Poetic Principle," in
the interest of the establishment of his magazine, The Stylus. What could have been more fitting
than that the gracious words of "Helen of a thousand dreams" should come to him in Richmond?

       *       *       *       *       *

Not many days later and he was under her own roof in Providence.

He waited in the dimness of her curtained drawing-room, ear strained for the first sound of
her footstep. Noiselessly as a sunbeam or a shadow she entered the room, her gauzy white draperies
floating about her slight figure as she came, while his great eyes drank in with reverent joy
each detail of her ethereal loveliness--her face, the same he had seen in the garden, pale
as a pearl and as softly radiant, and framed in clustering dark ringlets which escaped in profusion
from the confinement of a lacy widow's cap--the tremulous mouth--the eyes, mysterious and unearthly,
from which the soul looked out.

For one moment she paused in the doorway, her hand pressed upon her wildly beating heart--then,
with hesitating step advanced to meet him. Her words of greeting were few, and so low and faltering
as to be quite unintelligible, but the tones of her voice fell on his ear like strangely familiar
music.

The man spoke no word. As her eyes rested for one brief moment upon his, then fell before the
intensity of his gaze, he was conscious of spiritual influences beyond the reach of reason.
In a tremulous ecstacy he bent and pressed his lips upon the hand that lay within his own and
it was with difficulty that he restrained himself from falling upon his knees before her in
actual worship.

Three evenings of "all heavenly delight" he spent in her companionship--sometimes in the seclusion
and dusk of her quiet drawing-room, sometimes walking among the roses in her garden, or among
the mossy tombs in the town cemetery--their sympathetic natures finding expression in such
conversation as poets delight in. Under the intoxicating spell of her presence all other dreams
passed, for the time, into nothingness and he passionately cried,

"Helen, I love now--now--for the first and only time!"

Yet he was poor, and the weaknesses which had caused him to fall in the past might cause him
to fall in the future. How could he plead for a return of his love?

His very self-abasement made his plea more strong. Still, she did not yield too suddenly. True,
she too, was under the spell, but she resisted it. As he found his voice, and his eloquence
filled the room a restlessness possessed her. Now she sat quite still by his side, now rose
and wandered about the apartment--now stood with her hand resting upon the back of his chair
while his nearness thrilled her.

There were objections, she told him--she was older than he.

"Has the soul age, Helen?" he answered her. "Can immortality regard time? Can that which began
never and shall never end consider a few wretched years of its incarnate life? Do you not perceive
that it is my diviner nature--my spiritual being, that burns and pants to commingle with your own?"

She urged her frail health as an objection.

For that he would love--worship her--the more, he said. He plead for her pity upon his loneliness--his
sorrows--and swore that he would comfort and soothe her in hers, through life, and when death
should come, joyfully go down with her into the night of the grave.

Finally he appealed to her ambition.

"Was I right, Helen, in my first impression of you?--in the impression that you are ambitious?
If so, and if you will have faith in me, I can and will satisfy your wildest desires. Would
it not be glorious to establish in America, the sole unquestionable aristocracy--that of the
intellect--to secure its supremacy--to lead and control it?"

Still the yes that so often seemed trembling upon her lips was not spoken. She received his
almost daily letters and his frequent visits, listened to his rapturous love-making--trembling,
blushing, letting him see that she was under the spell, that she loved him. Indeed she could
not have helped his seeing it had she wished; but when he spoke of marriage she hesitated--tantalizing
him to the point of madness, almost.

What was it that held her back?--She too, believed that it was the hand of Fate that had brought
them together--that they were pre-ordained to cheer each other's latter years, to establish
that intellectual aristocracy of which he dreamed. Yet she shrank from taking the step. When
his great solemn eyes were upon her, his beautiful face pale and haggard with excess of feeling,
turned toward her, his eloquent words of love in her ears, she sat as one entranced--bewitched;
yet she would not give the word he longed for--the word of willingness to embark with him upon
the sea of life. Fear checked her. Such an uncharted sea it seemed to her--she dared not say
him yea!

The truth was the poison was working--the Griswold poison. The wildest rumors came to her ears
of the worse than follies of her lover. She knew that they were at least, overdrawn--possibly
altogether false--yet they frightened her.

"Do you know Helen Whitman?" wrote one of The Dreamer's enemies to Dr. Griswold. "Of course
you have heard it rumored that she is to marry Poe. Well, she has seemed to me a good girl
and--you know what Poe is. Has Mrs. Whitman no friend in your knowledge that can faithfully
explain Poe to her?"

But Rufus Griswold had already "explained Poe" to those whom he knew would take pains to pass
the explanation on to "Helen"--had dropped the poison where he reckoned it would work with
the greatest speed and effect. The explanation, with the usual indirectness of a Griswold,
was sugared with a compliment.

"Poe has great intellectual power," he said with emphasis, "great intellectual power, but,"
he added, with a sidelong glance of the furtive eye and a confidential drop in the voice, "but--he
has no principle--no moral sense."

The poison reached the destination for which it was intended--the ears of Helen Whitman--in
due course, and it terrified her as had none of the rumors she had heard before. Still her
lover floundered in the dark--baffled--wondering--not able to make her out. Why did she tantalize
him--torture him, thus?--keeping him dangling between Heaven and hell?--he asked himself, and
he asked her, over and over again. He became more and more convinced that there was a reason,--what
was it?

Finally she gave it to him in its baldness and its brutality, just as it had come to her--wrote
it to him in a letter. It brought him a rude awakening from his dream of bliss. That such a
charge should be brought against him at all was bitter enough, but that it could be repeated
to him by "Helen" seemed unbelievable.

"You do not love me," he sadly wrote in reply, "or you would not have written these terrible
words." Then he swore a great oath: "By the God who reigns in Heaven, I swear to you that my
soul is incapable of dishonor--that with the exception of occasional follies and excesses which
I bitterly lament, but to which I have been driven by intolerable sorrow, I can call to mind
no act of my life which would bring a blush to my cheek--or to yours."

He followed the letter with a visit--again throwing himself at her feet and thrilling her with
his eloquence and with the magic of his personality.

She gave him a half promise and said she would write to him in Lowell, where he had engaged
to deliver a lecture.

In this town was a roof-tree which was a haven of rest to The Dreamer. Beneath it dwelt his
friend and confidant, "Annie" Richmond--his soul's sweet "sister," as he loved to call her.
And there he waited with a chastened joy, for he felt assured that the long wished for yes
was about to be said, yet dared not give himself over prematurely, to the ecstacy that would
soon be his. In the pleasant, friendly family circle of the Richmonds, he sat during those
chill November evenings, seeing pictures in the glowing fire, as he held sweet "Annie's" sympathetic
hand in his, while the only sound that broke the silence was the ticking of the grandfather's
clock in a shadowy corner.

Thus quietly, patiently, he waited.

       *       *       *       *       *

But in Providence the Griswold poison was at work. All the friends and relatives of "Helen"
were possessed of full vials of it--which they industriously poured into her ears. Against
it the recollection of the night in the garden and her belief that Fate had ordained her union
with the poet, had no avail. The letter that she sent her lover was more non-committal--colder--than
any he had received from her before, yet there was still enough of indecision in it to keep
him tantalized. In a state of mind well nigh distraction, he bade "Annie" and her cheerful
fireside farewell and set his face toward Providence; but he went in a dream--the demon Despair,
possessing him.

Unstrung, unmanned, almost bereft of reason, his old dissatisfaction with himself and the world
overtook him--a longing to be out of it all, for forgetfulness, for peace, yea, even the peace
of the grave,--why not?

A passionate longing--a homesickness--for the sure, the steadfast, the unvariable love of his
beautiful Virginia consumed him. Oh, if he could but lie down and sleep and forget until one
sweet day he should wake in the land where she awaited him, and where they would construct
anew, and for eternity, the Valley of the Many-Colored Grass!

He listened.... For the first time since the Star of Love had ushered in a new day in his life,
he heard the swinging of the censers of the angels--he inhaled the incense--he heard the voice
of Virginia in the sighing wind. She seemed to call to him.

"I am coming, Heartsease!" he whispered as he quaffed the potion that he reckoned would bear
him to her.

       *       *       *       *       *

But it was not to be. When he awaked, weak and ill, but sane, he found himself with friends.
Calmness and strength returned and with them, horror at the deed he had so nearly committed,
and deep contrition.

With all haste he again presented himself at the door of "Helen," beseeching her to marry him
at once and save him, as he believed she only could, from himself. And the consequences of
her indecision making her more alarmed for him than she had formerly been for herself, she
agreed to an engagement, though not to immediate marriage.

He returned to Fordham and to faithful Mother Clemm a wreck of his former self, but engaged
to be married!

Yet he was not happy--a new horror possessed him. As in the night when the Star of Love first
rose upon his vigil it had stopped over the door of "a legended tomb," so now again was his
pathway closed. Turn which way he would, the tomb of Virginia seemed to frown upon him. He
remembered his promise to her that upon no other daughter of earth would he look with the eyes
of love. Vainly did he seek to justify himself to his own heart for breaking the promise. No
one could ever supplant her, or fill the void in his life her death had made, he told himself--this
new love was something different, and in no way disturbed her memory.

But the tomb still stood in his way.

"I am calm and tranquil," he wrote "Helen," "and but for a strange shadow of coming evil which
haunts me I should be happy. That I am not supremely happy, even when I feel your dear love
at my heart, terrifies me."

Later he wrote,

"You say that all depends on my own firmness. If this be so all is safe. Henceforward I am
strong. But all does not depend, dear Helen, upon my firmness--all depends upon the sincerity
of your love."

       *       *       *       *       *

A month later the skies of Providence shone brightly upon him. He returned there, was received
by Mrs. Whitman as her affianced lover, delivered his brilliant lecture upon "The Poetic Principle"
to a great throng of enthusiastic hearers, and won a promise from his lady to marry him at
once and return with him to Fordham. He scribbled a line to Mother Clemm notifying her to be
ready to receive him and his bride and went so far as to engage the services of a clergyman,
and to sign a marriage contract, in which Mrs. Whitman's property was made over to her mother.

But--just at this point a note was slipped into the hand of "Helen," informing her that her
lover had been seen drinking wine in the hotel. When he called at her house soon afterward
she received him surrounded by her family and though there were no signs of the wine, said
"no" to him, emphatically--for the first time.

He plead, but she remained firm--receiving his passionate words of remonstrance with sorrowful
silence, while her mother, impatient at his persistence, showed him the door. He prayed that
she would at least speak one word to him in farewell.

"What can I say?" she questioned.

"Say that you love me, Helen."

"I love you!"

With these words in his ears he was gone. As he passed out of the gate and out of her life
he saw, or fancied he saw, through the veiled window, a white figure beckoning to him, but
his steps were sternly set toward the opposite direction--his whole being crying within him,
"Nevermore--nevermore!" She had stretched out her spiritlike hands, but to draw them back again,
in the fashion that fascinated and at the same time maddened him, once too often. The wave
of romantic feeling which had borne him along since his vision of her in the garden suddenly
subsided, leaving him disillusioned--cold. The reaction was so violent that instead of the
magnetic attraction she had had for him he felt himself positively repelled by the thought
of her unearthly beauty--her mysterious eyes.

He went straight to the depot and took the train just leaving, which would bear him back to
the cottage among the cherry trees.

Mother Clemm, expecting him to bring home a bride, had spent the day putting an extra touch
of brightness upon the simple but already spotless, home. A cheerful fire was in the grate;
branches of holly, cedar and such other such bits of beauty as the woods afforded were everywhere
about the house, and the Mother herself, in the snowiest of caps with the sheerest of floating
strings and a gallant look of welcome upon her sorrowful face, stood at the window and watched
for the coming of the son that Heaven had given her, and the woman who was to take the place
of the daughter that Heaven had taken away from her. Her oak-like nature had quailed at the
thought--but it had withstood many a blast, it could weather one more, and after all, if "Eddie"
were happy--.

       *       *       *       *       *

In the far distance a figure emerged out of the gathering dusk--a man. Could it be Eddie?--Alone?

Yes! It surely was he! The carriage of the head--the military cloak--the walk--were unmistakable.

But he was alone!--She grew weak in the knees.--The shock of joy more nearly unnerved her than
had the pain. She had braced herself to bear the pain.

She recovered her composure and hastened to the door just in time to be folded into the arms
of the figure in the cloak.

"Helen?"--she queried.

"Is dead--to me," he answered, with his arms still about her. "We will have nothing more to
say of her except this: Muddie, I have been in a dream from which, thank God, I am now awake.
In the darkness of my loneliness--of my misery, of which you alone have the slightest conception,
I saw a light which I fancied would lead me to the love for which my soul is starving--to the
sympathy which is sweeter even than love to the broken heart of a man. I followed it. I was
deceived. It was no real light, but a mere will o' the wisp bred in the dank tarn of despair."

He released her to hang up the cloak in the little entrance hall, then taking her hand, which
he raised to his lips, drew her into the sitting room.

"Ah, but it is good to be at home again!" he exclaimed.

His whole manner changed; a mighty weight seemed to roll from his shoulders as he stretched
his legs before the fire. His old merry laugh--the laugh of Edgar Goodfellow--rang out as he
told "Muddie" of the success of his lecture, in Providence,--of the great audience and the
applause.

"Muddie," he cried, "my dream of The Stylus will come true yet! A few more such audiences and
the money will be in sight! And let me add, I am done with literary women--henceforth literature
herself shall be my sole mistress. I am more than ever convinced that the profession of letters
is the only one fit for a man of brain. There is little money in it, of course, but I'd rather
be a poor-devil author earning a bare living than a king. Beyond a living, what does a man
of brain want with money anyhow?--Muddie, did it ever strike you that all that is really valuable
to a man of talent--especially to a poet--is absolutely unpurchasable?--Love, fame, the dominion
of intellect, the consciousness of power, the thrilling sense of beauty, the free air of Heaven,
exercise of body and mind with the physical and moral health that these bring;--these, and
such as these are really all a poet cares about. Then why should he mind what the world calls
poverty?"

"Why indeed?" echoed happy "Muddie." It was so delightful to have her son back at home, and
in this hopeful, contented frame, she would have agreed with him in almost any statement he
chose to make.

He gave her loving messages from "Annie" and told her in the bright, humorous way which was
characteristic of Edgar Goodfellow, of many pleasant little incidents of his journey. One of
the nights to look back upon and to gloat over in memory was this night by the fireside at
Fordham cottage with the Mother--a night of calm and content under the home-roof after tempestuous
wandering.

A quiet, sweet Christmas they spent together--he reading, writing or talking over plans for
new work, while she sat by with her sewing and Catalina dozed on the hearth. Part of every
day (wrapped in the old cape) he walked in the pine wood or beside the ice-bound river, and
for the first time since the feverish dream of new love had come to him he was able to visit
the tomb of Virginia and to dwell with happiness, and with a clear conscience, upon her memory.
During these days of serenity a ballad suggested by thoughts of her and his life with her in
the lovely Valley of the Many-Colored Grass took form in his mind. It was no dirge-like song
of the "dank tarn of Auber," but a song of a fair "kingdom by the sea" and in contrast to the
sombre "Ulalume" he gave to the maiden in the new poem the pleasant sounding name of "Annabel
Lee." Out of these days too, came "the Bells" and the exquisite sonnet to his "more than Mother."

One flash of the false light that had lured him reached The Dreamer at Fordham. He held a letter
addressed to him in the familiar handwriting of Helen Whitman long in his hand without opening
it. This flame was burned out, he told himself--why rake its cold ashes? Yet he felt that nothing
that she could say would have power to disturb his new peace. Still the Mother, though she
kept her own counsel, trembled for herself and for him as she was aware (without looking up
from her sewing) that he had broken the seal. Some minutes of tense stillness passed--then,

"Shall I read you her letter?" he asked.

"As you will."

"Then I will!--It is in verse and the place from which she dates it is,

"Our Island of Dreams," which she explains in a sub-heading is

                           "By the foam
             Of perilous seas, in faery lands forlorn"

--a line which she has borrowed from Keats. This is what she writes:

    "Tell him I lingered alone on the shore,
    Where we parted, in sorrow, to meet nevermore;
    The night-wind blew cold on my desolate heart
    But colder those wild words of doom, 'Ye must part!'

    "O'er the dark, heaving waters, I sent forth a cry;
    Save the wail of those waters there came no reply.
    I longed, like a bird, o'er the billows to flee,
    From our lone island home and the moan of the sea:

    "Away,--far away--from the wild ocean shore,
    Where the waves ever murmur, 'No more, nevermore,'
    Where I wake, in the wild noon of midnight, to hear
    The lone song of the surges, so mournful and drear.

    "Where the clouds that now veil from us heaven's fair light,
    Their soft, silver lining turn forth on the night;
    When time shall the vapors of falsehood dispel
    He shall know if I loved him; but never how well."

Silence followed the reading of the poem-letter. Finally the mother asked,

"Will you go back?"

He placed the letter upon the top of a pile in the same handwriting, tied them together with
a bit of ribbon and laid them in a small drawer of his desk. Then, rising, he leaned over the
back of "Muddie's" chair and lightly touching her seamed forehead with his lips replied,

    "Quoth the raven, nevermore!"

Then took up a garland of evergreen which he had been making when the Mother came in with the
mail, and set out in the direction of the churchyard with its "legended tomb."

CHAPTER XXXIII.

Back in Richmond!--The Richmond he loved best--Richmond full of sunshine and flowers and the
sweet southern social life out of doors, in gardens and porches; Richmond in summertime!

In spite of the changes his observant eye marked as he rattled over the cobblestones toward
the "Swan Tavern," on Broad and Ninth Streets, he almost felt that he was back in boyhood.
It was just such a day, just this time of year, that--as a lad of eleven--he had seen Richmond
first after his five years absence in England.

How good it was to be back upon the sacred soil! How sweet the air was, and how beautiful were
the roses! When before, had he seen a magnolia tree in bloom?--with its dense shade, its dark
green shining foliage, and its snow-white blossoms. Was there anything in the world so sweet
as its odor, combined with that of the roses and the other flowers that filled the gardens?
It was worth coming all the way from New York just to see and to smell them.

He caught glimpses of one or two familiar figures as he drove along. How impatient he was to
see his old friends--everybody--white and colored, old and young, masculine and feminine. He
could hardly wait to get to the tavern, remove the dust of travel and sally forth upon the
round of visits he intended to make. His spirits went up--and up, and finally it was Edgar
Goodfellow in the flesh who stepped jauntily from the door of "Swan Tavern," arrayed for hot-weather
calling. In spite of the summer temperature, he looked the personification of coolness and
comfort. The taste of prosperity his lectures had brought him was evident in his modest but
spruce apparel. He had discarded the habitual black cloth for a coat and trousers of white
linen (exquisitely laundered by Mother Clemm's capable and loving hands) which he wore with
a black velvet vest for which he had also to thank the Mother and her skilled needle. A broad-brimmed
Panama hat shaded his pale features and the grey eyes, which glowed with happiness. As with
proudly carried head and quick, easy gait, he bore westward up Broad Street, no single person
passed him that did not turn to look with admiration upon the handsome, distinguished stranger,
and to mentally ask "Who is he?"

It so happened that Jack Mackenzie was the first acquaintance he met.

"Edgar," he said, as their hands joined in affectionate grasp, "Do you remember once, years
ago, I met you in the street and you said you were going to look for the end of the rainbow?
Well, you look as if you had found it!"

"I have," was the reply. "An hour ago. It was here in Richmond all the time and I didn't know
it, and like a poor fool, have been wandering the world over in a vain search for it. The trouble
is, I was looking for the wrong thing. I was looking for fame and fortune, thought of which
blinded my eyes to something far better--scenes and friendships of lang syne. Jack--" he continued,
as--arm in arm--the two friends made their way up the street. "Jack, life is a great schoolmaster,
but why does it take so long to drub any sense into these blockheads of ours?"

"Damned if I know," replied his companion, who was more truthful always than either poetic
or philosophic, "but if you mean that you've decided to come back to Richmond to live, I'm
mighty glad to hear it."

"That's what I mean. I came only for a visit and to lecture, but made up my mind on the way
from the depot to come for good as soon as I can arrange to do so. I think it was a magnolia
tree in bloom--the first I had seen in many a year--that decided me."

"Well, all of your old friends will be glad to have you back; there's one in particular that
I might mention. Do you remember Elmira Royster? She's a comely widow now, with a comfortable
fortune, and she's always had a lingering fondness for you. I advise you to hunt her up."

The Dreamer's face clouded.

"Women are angels, Jack," he said. "They are the salt that will save this world, if it is to
be saved, and for poor sinners like me there would be simply no hope in either this world or
the next but for them; but they will have no more part in my life, save as friends. A true
friend of mine, however, I believe Myra is. I saw her during my brief visit here last fall.--Ah,
Rob! my boy! Howdy!"

The two friends had turned into Sixth Street and as they drew near the corner of Sixth and
Grace, almost ran into Rob Stanard--now a prominent lawyer and one of the leading gentlemen
of the town.

"Eddie Poe, as I'm alive!" he exclaimed, with a hearty hand-clasp. "My, my, what a pleasure!
I'm on my way home to dinner, boys. Come in, both of you and take pot-luck with us. My wife
will be delighted to see you!"

The invitation was accepted as naturally as it was given, and the three mounted together the
steps of the beautiful house and were received in the charmingly homelike drawing-room opening
from the wide hall, by Rob's wife, a Kentucky belle who had stepped gracefully into her place
as mistress of one of the notable homes in Virginia's capital. As she gave her jewelled hand
to Edgar Poe her handsome black eyes sparkled with pleasure. She was not only sincerely glad
to receive the friend of her husband's boyhood, but keen appreciation of intellectual gifts
made her feel that to know him was a distinction. Some of the servants who had known "Marse
Eddie" in the old days were still of the household--having come to Robert Stanard as part of
his father's estate--and they were to their intense gratification, pleasantly greeted by the
visitor.

That evening--and many subsequent evenings--The Dreamer spent at "Duncan Lodge" with the Mackenzies
and their friends. A series of sunlit days followed--days of lingering in Rob Sully's studio
or in the familiar office of The Southern Literary Messenger where the editor, Mr. John R.
Thompson--himself a poet--gave him a warm welcome always, and gladly accepted and published
in The Messenger anything the famous former editor would let him have; days of wandering in
the woods or by the tumbling river he had loved as a lad; days of searching out old haunts
and making new ones.

And everywhere he found welcome. Delightful little parties were given in his honor, when in
return for the courtesies paid him he charmed the company by reciting "The Raven" as he alone
could recite it. His lectures upon "The Poetic Principle" and "The Philosophy of Composition,"
and his readings in the assembly rooms of the Exchange Hotel, drew the elite of the city, who
sat spellbound while he, erect and still and pale as a statue, filled their ears with the music
of his voice, and their souls with wonder at the brilliancy of his thought and words. Subscriptions
to The Stylus poured in. At last, this dream of his life seemed an assured fact.

One door--one only in all the town did not swing wide to receive him. The closed portal of
the mansion of which he had been the proud young master, still said to him "Nevermore"--and
he always had a creepy sensation when he passed it, which even the sight of the flower-garden
he had loved, in fullest bloom, did not overcome.

The golden days ran into golden weeks and the weeks into months, and still Edgar Poe was making
holiday in Richmond--the first holiday he had had since, as a youth of seventeen he had quarrelled
with John Allan and gone forth to the battle of life. In the long, long battle since then there
had been more of joy than they knew who looking on had seen the toil and the defeat and the
despair, but from whose eyes the exaltation he had felt in the act of creation or in the contemplation
of the works of nature, and the happiness he found in his frugal home, were hidden. But, as
has been said, there had been no holiday, until now when he had come back to Richmond an older
and a sadder and a more experienced Edgar Poe--an Edgar Poe upon whom the Silence and the Solitude
had fallen and had left shaken--broken.

Yet that personal identity upon the mystery of which he liked to ponder--the unquenchable,
immortal ego was there; and it was, for all the outward and inward changes, the same Edgar
Poe, with his two natures--Dreamer and Goodfellow--alternately dominating him, who had come
back to find the real end of the rainbow in revisiting old scenes, renewing old friendships,
awakening old memories--and had paused to make holiday.

Even in these golden days there were occasional falls, for the cup of kindness was everywhere
and in his blood was the same old strain which made madness for him in the single glass--the
single drop, almost; and in spite of all the great schoolmaster, Life, had taught him, there
was in his will the same old element of weakness. Had it been otherwise he had not been Edgar
Poe. At times, too, the blue devils raised their heads. Had it been otherwise he had not been
Edgar Poe.

But on the whole the holiday was a bright dream of Paradise regained at a time when more than
ever before his feet had seemed to march only to the cadence of the old, sad word, Nevermore.

Two sacred pilgrimages he made early in this holiday--to the two shrines of his romantic boyhood--to
Shockoe Cemetery, where he not only visited "Helen's" tomb, but laid a wreath upon the grave
of Frances Allan--his little foster mother, and to the churchyard on the hill. The white steeple
still slept serenely in the blue atmosphere above the church and, as of yore, the bell called
in deep, sweet tones to prayer. But how the churchyard had filled since he saw it last! Graves,
graves everywhere. It was appalling! He stepped between the graves, old and new, stooping to
read the inscriptions upon the slabs. So many that he remembered as merry boys and girls and
hale men and women still in their prime--could they really be dead?--gone forever from the
scenes which had known them and of which they seemed an integral part? Oh, mystery of mysteries,
how was it possible?--Yet here were their names plainly written upon the marbles! The church
builded by men's hands, the trees planted by men's hands, the monuments fashioned by men's
hands remained, but the living, breathing men, where were they? Could it be that God's highest
creation was a more perishable thing than the lifeless work of its own hand? His spirit cried
out within him against such a thought. No, it could not be! Gone from earth, or holden from
mortal vision they assuredly were--departed--but dead? No!

Finally he came to the grave beside the wall. No marble tomb told the passer-by that there
lay the body of Elizabeth Poe. Yet, what matter?--Was her sleep the less peaceful? Was her
tired spirit the less free?--If in its flight it should visit this spot where it had laid the
burden of the body down, surely it would find, for all there was no carven stone to mark it,
a most sweet spot. The greenest of grass, and clover with blossoms white and red, waved over
it--the summer breeze rippling through them with pleasant sound,--and the tall trees hung a
green canopy between it and the midday sun.

As he laid his offering of roses among the clover blooms and turned to go away the bell in
the steeple began to toll. How the past came back!--He stood with uncovered and bowed head
and counted the strokes. Suddenly, there was a sound of horses tramping in the street below
the wall. Then through the gate and down the walk it came--the solemn procession.

He waited until the last of the mourners had passed into the church, then followed, and as
the bell stopped tolling and the organ began to play the familiar, moving chant, he passed
in and took a seat near the door. Whose funeral service he was attending he knew not--but he
was back in childhood, and it was beautiful to him to hear once more, in this very church,
the words of spoken music and the old familiar hymns he had heard that day when his infant
heart had been filled with a beautiful sorrow that was not pain.

More than one pair of eyes turned to see the owner of the fine tenor voice that joined in the
singing of the hymns, and resting for a moment upon the dark, uplifted eyes of Edgar Poe, caught
a glimpse of something not of this earth.

As he left the church and churchyard, he noted many changes in its immediate neighborhood but
the only one upon which his eye lingered was a smug brick house of commodious proportions and
genteel aspect. A pleasant green yard afforded space for a few trees and flowers. A dignified
and prosperous, but not in the least romantic house it was. A house with no rambling wings
giving opportunities for winding passageways and odd nooks and corners; no unexpected closets
where skeletons might be in hiding, or dusky stairways to creak in the dead of night, or upon
which, even by day, one was almost certain he caught a glimpse of a shadowy figure flying before
him as he groped his way up or down them. A house with no mysteries--just the house in which
one might have expected to find Elmira Royster who, as the Widow Shelton, the prudent housewife
and good manager of a prosperous estate, was simply the frank, clear-eyed girl he had known,
grown older.

He would call upon Elmira sometime, but not now little son, so that she could only use the
income, was duly signed and sealed. The wedding ring was bought.

With visions of a new start in life, of which there were many happy years in store for him
(why not?--He was only forty!) The Dreamer set out on his way back to Fordham to settle up
his affairs and bring Mother Clemm to Richmond to witness his marriage and to take up her abode
with him and his bride, in the brick house on the hill. He had been upon a holiday, but he
carried with him a goodly sum of money realized from his lectures, and a long list of subscribers
to The Stylus. Surely, Fortune had never shown him a more smiling face!

       *       *       *       *       *

Baltimore!--

Why did his way lie through Baltimore? Baltimore, with its memories of Virginia--Baltimore
where he had come up out of the grave to the heaven of her love, and where had been first constructed
the most beautiful of all his dreams--the dream of the Valley of the Many-Colored Grass, in
which he and she and the Mother had lived for each other only!

In Baltimore again he found his way stopped by the vision of "a legended tomb." It was paralyzing!
He could go no further upon his journey, but lingered in Baltimore, wandering the streets like
one bereft.

And that merciless other self, his accusing Conscience, arose, and with whisper louder and
more terrible than ever before, upbraided him--reminding him of the vow he had made his wife
upon her bed of death.

Alas, the vow!--that solemn, sacred vow! How could he have so utterly forgotten it? How plainly
he could see her lying upon the snowy pillow--her face not much less white--her trustful eyes
on his eyes as he knelt by her side and swore that he would never bind himself in marriage
to another--invoking from Heaven a terrible curse upon his soul if he should ever prove traitorous
to his oath.

Alas, where had been his will that he had so soon forgotten his vow?

       *       *       *       *       *

Hours on hours he wandered the streets of the city whose every paving stone seemed to speak
to him of his Virginia--the city where he had walked with her--where he had first spoken of
love to her and heard her sweet confession--where, in the holy church, the beautiful words
of the old, old rite had made them one.

All day he wandered, and all night--driven, cruelly driven--by the upbraiding whisper in his
ear, while before him still he saw her white face with the soft eyes looking out--it seemed
to him in reproach.

Finally the longing which had come upon him in Providence--the longing for the peace of the
grave and reunion, in death, with Virginia, was strong upon him again--pressed him hard--mastered
him.

It was sometime in the early morning that he swallowed the draught--the draught that would
free his spirit, that would enable him to lay down the burden of his body and to fly from the
steps that dogged his steps--from the voice that whispered upbraidings. He would lay his body
down by the side of her body in the "legended tomb" while his spirit would fly to join her
spirit in that far Aidenn where they would be happy together forever.

When he opened his wondering eyes upon the white walls of the hospital he was feeble and weak
in his limbs as an infant, but his brain was unclouded. Gentle hands ministered to him and
a woman's voice read him spirit-soothing words from the Gospel of St. John. But the draught
had done its work. He lingered some days and then, on Sunday morning, the seventh day of October
of the year 1849, his spirit took its flight. His last words were a prayer:

    "Lord, have mercy on my poor soul!"

Many were the friends who rose up to comfort the stricken mother and who hastened to bring
rosemary to the poet's grave. But there was one whom he had believed to be his friend--a big
man whose big brain he had admired--in whose furtive eye was an unholy glee, about whose thick
lips played a smile which slightly revealed his fang-like teeth. To him was entrusted the part
of literary executor--it had been The Dreamer's own request. In his power it would lie to give
to the world his own account of this man who had said he was no poet and had distanced him
in the race for a woman's favor.

The day was at hand when Rufus Griswold would have his full revenge upon the fair fame of Edgar
the Dreamer.

       *       *       *       *       *

Transcriber's note: Minor typographical errors have been corrected.