But to return to the breach between Grant and Smith, to the exact state of facts which led
up to it, and to the immediate pressure which finally brought about Smith's relief from further
command in the field. Much that is as well forgotten, has been written about this unfortunate
episode. Smith felt to the day of his death that he had been misrepresented to Grant and unjustly
injured by his action. He always contended that the whole truth had not been told, and it must
be confessed that no consecutive and exhaustive analysis of the case has ever been made. Perhaps
none can be made. But from such information as I have been able to gather, I have always supposed
that Grant's action was based upon Smith's criticisms, exaggerated reports of which were made
by certain officers of Butler's staff with whom Smith dined and spent the night at Fortress
Monroe on his way home, that Butler presented these reports in person to General Grant, without
the knowledge or concurrence of Meade or Burnside, and made them the basis of a demand for
Smith's immediate relief. Exactly what took place at the interview must for reasons which will
appear hereafter, always remain a matter of conjecture. It however seems to be probable that
had General Smith deferred his leave of absence till he had seated himself firmly in his new
command, or had he been sent for and allowed to make his own explanation, he would have been
spared the humiliation, which ended his military career, while the country would have continued
to receive the assistance of one of its greatest military minds.

General Smith, by his military writings, has not only refuted the unjust criticisms of General
Butler's Book, but he has modestly and conclusively set forth his own military services during
the various campaigns in which he took part. He points out with pardonable pride the friendship
which sprang up during the Chattanooga campaign, between himself and General Grant. He makes
it clear that his failure to capture Petersburg was due to a number of causes more or less
potential and altogether beyond his control. First among them was the physical exhaustion of
himself and his troops; second, an order which was sent to him through the signal corps from
General Butler, who was all day June 15 at Point Lookout Signal Station, to stay his advance;
and, third, the failure of General Hancock, who was with the Second Corps within supporting
distance, to take up the movement and give the finishing stroke to the day's work. To these
should be added the defective staff arrangements by which the various forces in the field of
operations were controlled, the inadequate strength of Smith's command, which was inexcusable
where such a vast force was within call, the lack of engineer officers and of exact information
as to the character of the ground over which the troops were compelled to operate, and the
total absence of proper support and co-operation on the part of the Army of the Potomac. Above
all, it should be kept in mind that the enemy held the defensive and had interior lines upon
which he could throw his troops from point to point on his threatened front, with greater celerity
than the attacking force could be concentrated by outside lines and across wide rivers against him.

When Smith began his movement against Petersburg, which was to be in the nature of a surprise,
the greater part of Grant's army was still north of the James River, and both Meade and Hancock
allege that they were not notified that a new effort was to be made to capture Petersburg by
Smith alone, after Butler had tried and failed with his whole army to isolate and cut it off
from Richmond by the movement to Bermuda Hundred. Both of these able officers declare that
if they had known in time that Petersburg was to have been captured, Petersburg would have
been captured. This simple statement, without reference to its truth, which has never been
questioned, is conclusive evidence that the staff arrangements and the organization of the
machinery of command were fatally defective, for had it been otherwise, every officer who could
have been called upon to take part in the movement, or could have been expected to co-operate
with it, would have been so clearly instructed as to make his duty entirely plain.

General Smith, in explanation of why he was relieved from command in the field, not only reflects
strongly upon the conduct of General Butler, but endeavors to show that General Grant "was
forced" by Butler to restore him to full command, in order to prevent the exposure of his own
conduct, yet even if this were true it necessarily leaves both the question of fact and the
question of motives in the dark. Certain letters which passed between Smith, Grant, Rawlins
and Butler have been quoted, for the purpose of illustrating the character of the persons concerned.
They will he found in the Records and they throw much light upon the subject, but they still
leave the reason of Smith's removal in obscurity.

It cannot be denied that Smith was a man of great talents and conspicuous services, with unusual
powers of caustic Criticism, who had been badly injured by the way in which his connection
with the Army of the James had been severed. His views and conduct had been impugned, not only
then, but afterwards, in both the newspapers and the personal statements of the day, and hence
it was but natural that he should retort with an appeal to the facts of a private nature more
or less commented upon at the time, to expose the reasons for official action and to vindicate
his own conduct. He strenuously contended that he was under no obligation to conceal any important
facts of the case connected either personally or officially with those who were using him unkindly
to the prejudice of the public welfare, especially where those facts were believed to be a
potential factor in influencing their official acts and in shaping history.

