Many a time, especially of late, had Reverend Mother looked at her with anxious foreboding
in her eyes. What would the future hold for this child of hers, endowed as she was with singular
beauty and a wonderful voice? She was a docile child, sunny and sweet-tempered, and that very
pliancy of nature was what caused the nun many a moment of uneasiness. What would become of
her once she had left the shelter of her convent home and was exposed to the influence of the
light-hearted, merry, soulless mother from whom she had inherited her beauty; the mother whose
only god was pleasure, whose one ambition was to be the best dressed, the most popular, the
most envied woman in her set. The only hope lay in keeping Nita at the convent as long as possible,
or at least until her character had developed sufficiently to enable her to enter her mother's
world and hold her own against it. Still, Reverend Mother dreaded the day when she must part
with her child, and now that the parting had come so unexpectedly, so much sooner than she
had anticipated, it was doubly hard to bear.

The nun knelt in the chapel that June evening and prayed with all her heart, not only for the
future of the girl whose voice filled the air with such exquisite melody, but also for help
to break to that girl as gently as possible the sad news awaiting her. Word had just arrived
that her father lay dangerously ill and Nita must hasten to his bedside if she wished to see
him once more in this world. The carriage was waiting and Nita must go at once.

The Benediction over and the lights extinguished, all save the tiny radiance of the Sanctuary
lamp, with a final appealing glance towards the Tabernacle door, Reverend Mother left the chapel,
descended to her office, where she was accustomed to interview the pupils each in turn, and
summoned Nita to her presence.

A little later she stood at the foot of the convent steps and watched the carriage drive away
with a weeping, forlorn little figure huddled in one corner, while the good lay-sister who
accompanied her vainly essayed words of cheer and consolation. She watched with tear-dimmed
eyes as the carriage rolled rapidly down the avenue and out through the gate, then entered
the house and repaired at once to her refuge in all trials and afflictions that might beset
her way, the convent chapel. There, with her eyes on the little golden door behind which the
dearest and best of Comforters is always waiting for the sorrowful, the sin-laden, the weary-hearted,
to come to Him, she found consolation and peace. Her child was in the Lord's hands and surely
in those hands she would be safe.

Many times have the June roses blossomed and fallen since the night on which Reverend Mother
stood in the convent doorway and watched the departure of the carriage which was bearing her
child away from her out into the world of suffering and sin. Once more, the June sunshine is
flooding the land and the air is heavy with the odor of June blossoms. In a small town in the
south of France, a young woman, gowned in deepest mourning, sits by her own casement and gazes
gloomily, despairingly, out into the gathering twilight. On a table at her side is a small
pile of money which she has counted over and over again in the vain hope that she may have
made a mistake and that, perhaps, after all, the amount is not quite so small as she has made
it out to be. That little pile of money represents her entire worldly wealth, and when it is
gone what is to become of her? Work? She glances at the soft, delicate hands resting idly in
her lap. Their whiteness is dazzling as compared with the black of her gown, and she smiles
rather bitterly. What work could hands like those perform? They are beautiful certainly, but
useless, absolutely useless, just as she herself is useless. There is not one thing by which
she can earn her daily bread, and earn it she must or starve. To what a pass has she come;
she, who at one time had wealth at her command and the world at her feet.

As she sits there, broken in spirit, broken in health, a middle-aged woman in appearance, while
in years not much beyond her first youth, she recalls those triumphs of her past. Her success
had been marvelous though short-lived. Her mind wanders back to the days when she was the pet
and idol of musical Europe. The mere announcement that she was to sing would pack the largest
opera house to the very doors. Ah! those days of triumph, when she had passed from one success
to another, when the mighty ones of the earth were pleased to do her honor, when the incense
of praise and flattery was burned day and night upon the shrine of her greatness. Her mother
was with her then, the beautiful, fairylike little mother for whom her love had been almost
worship. Her voice had been with her, too, that voice at which two continents had marveled.
Both are gone now, the beautiful mother, the wonderful voice; gone, gone forever, and she is
alone in the world, alone and poor and friendless.

She recalls the first and only time when she appeared in public in America, her native land.
She did not want to sing that night, for her mother, who had been slightly ailing for some
time, seemed very much worse. She had decided not to appear at all, but had finally yielded
to the mother's entreaties and driven to the opera house. What an ovation she had received
that night! She could see it all again: the lights, the flowers, the music, the vast audience
simply frantic with delight at her performance. At the close she had been recalled again and
again, and those enthusiastic plaudits still rang in her ears. How little she had dreamed as
she smiled and bowed her thanks, and how little those who watched her had dreamed that never
again was that wonderful voice to be heard by mortal ears, that voice which had stirred millions
of hearts and made its owner one of the foremost singers of her day.

She had driven home from that scene of triumph to find that her mother's condition had become
alarmingly worse in the few hours of her absence, and before morning she had stood beside a
deathbed the recollection of which makes her shudder even now. The poor, pretty butterfly,
her short summer over, fought frantically but vainly against the annihilation which was coming
upon her. The memory of her early training at Saint Zita's, the memory too of that other death-scene
she had witnessed when her father had passed away so calmly, so peacefully, with his eyes upon
the crucifix and the words of God's minister ringing in his ears, came to the girl and she
had begged to be allowed to send for a priest. Her mother had never professed any belief, but
it seemed terrible to Nita to have her die without even a prayer to help her in that last awful
moment. Entreaties were of no avail. The idea of a priest, of religion, of even a final prayer,
was laughed to scorn. Besides, she was not dying. She was young yet and was going to have many
more years of sunshine and pleasure before sinking into the oblivion of the cold, dark grave.
No, no, let them not speak of death, that fearsome, awful spectre. She was going to live. Take
it away, take it away, that dreadful thing standing there beside her, laying its icy hand upon
her forehead. Its touch was turning her to stone. She was cold, and it was growing so dark
she could see nothing. Why did they not bring lights; why did they not take away the dreadful
thing beside her bed?

The final struggle was fearful to behold, and even now Nita is haunted day and night by the
scene. Even now, there are times when she springs from her sleep with a cry of terror, thinking
she is again assisting at the departure of that poor soul who fought so frantically against
the power of death.

With her mother, a large part of their income died also, but she still had sufficient money
to supply her wants. Her voice, too, was a fortune in itself; managers all over the country
were eager and anxious to sign a contract on any terms she chose to dictate. The shock of her
mother's death so unnerved her that she decided to spend a year in rest and travel before returning
to the stage. She had come abroad again, but had scarcely reached London when she was attacked
by a severe throat trouble. The most eminent physicians were consulted, various treatments
tried, but the disease would not yield. The south of France was recommended, and hither she
had come in a last vain effort to save the voice which had charmed all Europe. At first she
was incredulous. Then, she hoped against hope that time would prove them wrong and that the
lost voice would return some day even better and richer than it was before. Now, all her hopes
are gone, all her delusions swept away. She knows she will never sing again, and here in her
hand she holds the cable message which forms the last in this series of dire misfortunes which
have come upon her within the last two years. It is the message which tells her that her investments
have failed and that she is penniless.

She sits by her window in the June twilight, the numbness of despair taking possession of her.
On the table lies all the money she owns in the world. It is sufficient to cover the few bills
she owes, the salary of the woman who has traveled with her as maid and companion, and pay
her passage back to her native land. But what then? America once reached, where can she go,
to whom can she turn? The distant relatives, the friends who crowded around her in her days
of success, anxiously seeking a smile, a word, a token of her favor, how will they receive
her if she goes to them a pauper, a dependent upon their charity? There is no one to whom she
can turn, no place to which she can go, and as the twilight deepens a heavier blackness settles
upon the soul of the girl.

Presently the sound of music breaks in on the evening stillness, the sound of an organ responding
to the touch of skilled fingers and blended with it the tones of women's voices. The nuns in
a neighboring convent are chanting the evening office. The sound recalls the chapel at Saint
Zita's, the orchard, the nuns, dear kind Reverend Mother. What peaceful, happy hours those
were? Has she ever known real happiness since she quitted the quiet convent home of her childhood?
Even in the days of her greatest triumphs, was there not always something she could not attain,
the little bit more which was always wanting? But at Saint Zita's, how different, oh! how different!
Happiness such as the world could not dream of ruled within its walls. She wonders what they
are doing now, the dear nuns and Reverend Mother. They, too, are probably in the chapel reciting
the office; some of them thinking of her perhaps. What would they say if they knew how false
she has proven to all their teachings, how careless she has grown in the practice of that religion
which is dearer to them than life itself?

A sentence in the last letter she received from Reverend Mother comes now to her mind. The
letter reached her years before and has never been answered. The words are these:

"Dear child, you are successful and happy now, with the world at your feet, but if the day
ever comes when all these things fall away from you and you stand in need of a true friend
or of any assistance we can render, remember Saint Zita's is still your home and your old mother's
heart is sick with longing for a sight of her child. Worldly joys must vanish, worldly hopes
decay, but Saint Zita's and Reverend Mother will be here waiting for you."

How she longs for the peace and quiet of the old home and the comforting touch of Reverend
Mother's kind arms about her! What is it that the nuns are singing! The "Magnificat." She listens
in silence for a few moments, then, a strange smile curving her lips, she recites in unison
with the choir:

"Deposuit potentes de sede. Yea, Lord, Thou hast indeed put down the mighty."

It is not until after the voices are stilled, long after the world is wrapped in slumber, that
the girl turns from her open window and gathers together the small store of money on the table
beside her, repeating to herself the while, slowly, half absently:

"I wonder; I wonder."

       *       *       *       *       *

Another year has rolled around and again the June roses in the garden at Saint Zita's fill
the summer air with their heavy fragrance. The convent door opens and Reverend Mother steps
out into the portico accompanied by a caller, one of the "old girls" come back to pay a fleeting
visit to the home of her childhood. The nun has changed but little with the passing of the
years, but those who love her best note with anxious eyes the slight stoop of the shoulders
and feebleness of gait.

The visitor glances idly at a lay-sister who is busily engaged sweeping the long flight of
stone steps leading from the portico to the driveway below. Her glance passes over the insignificant
figure of the lay-sister, and, looking across to the pine grove on the hill, she speaks to
Reverend Mother.

"Do you know, Mother, every time I stand here and look at those trees I am reminded of Nita,
'the nightingale of Saint Zita's,' as we used to call her. That grove was ever her favorite
resort and even the odor of pines makes me think of her. I wish I knew what had become of her.
I witnessed her performance the only time she sang here in America, and truly, it was wonderful.
Then she disappeared completely from the face of the earth, as completely as if the ground
had opened and swallowed her. Rumors came of her travels in England and the south of France
and after that no news of her could be obtained. Occasionally, my dear Mother," and the visitor
smiled knowingly; "occasionally I have fancied that you knew her whereabouts and could tell
us of her."

"You are right, dear child, I could tell you, but I may not."

"At least, Mother, tell me this: She is well and happy?"

"She is well, indeed, and I think I may safely say happier than she has ever been before."

"Thank you, Mother," and the visitor descends the steps and is gone.

"Sister Gabrielle," calls Reverend Mother gently.

The lay-sister approaches, her broom still in her hand.

"You heard our conversation, Sister?"

"Yes, my Mother."

"I spoke truly, did I not, dearest child?" and the old eyes peer anxiously into the depths
of the younger and smiling eyes raised to meet her gaze.

"You spoke truly, my Mother. Never before have I known what real peace and real happiness were.
Never, did I dream that life on earth could be as mine is, so happy that it seems to me a little
foretaste of the joy the angels must know in heaven. Deposuit potentes de sede, et exaltavit
humiles."

A MEMORABLE CHRISTMAS MORNING.

On the outskirts of one of our large mill towns, at the very end of a narrow street lined on
each side by a row of dwelling houses of the poorer class, stood a tiny cottage. It was a humble,
unpretentious abode of only four rooms, but it was home to the weary girl struggling up the
hillside. The tired eyes brightened and lagging steps quickened involuntarily as she turned
the corner and saw the welcoming light streaming from the kitchen window.

It was very late on the eve of Christmas day and the street was deserted save for the solitary
figure hastening towards that beacon light of home. Darkness and silence reigned in most of
the houses she passed, and she sighed as she said to herself:

"Poor mother! Still up and still at work. I wish she would not work so hard; there is no need
for it now."

