Eveline entered at the moment, leaning on Rose's arm. She had laid aside mourning since the
ceremony of the fiancailles, and was dressed in a kirtle of white, with an upper robe of pale
blue. Her head was covered with a veil of white gauze, so thin, as to float about her like
the misty cloud usually painted around the countenance of a seraph. But the face of Eveline,
though in beauty not unworthy one of that angelic order, was at present far from resembling
that of a seraph in tranquillity of expression. Her limbs trembled, her cheeks were pale, the
tinge of red around the eyelids expressed recent tears; yet amidst these natural signs of distress
and uncertainty, there was an air of profound resignation--a resolution to discharge her duty
in every emergence reigning in the solemn expression of her eye and eyebrow, and showing her
prepared to govern the agitation which she could not entirely subdue. And so well were these
opposing qualities of timidity and resolution mingled on her cheek, that Eveline, in the utmost
pride of her beauty, never looked more fascinating than at that instant; and Hugo de Lacy,
hitherto rather an unimpassioned lover, stood in her presence with feelings as if all the exaggerations
of romance were realized, and his mistress were a being of a higher sphere, from whose doom
he was to receive happiness or misery, life or death.

It was under the influence of such a feeling, that the warrior dropped on one knee before Eveline,
took the hand which she rather resigned than gave to him, pressed it to his lips fervently,
and, ere he parted with it, moistened it with one of the few tears which he was ever known
to shed. But, although surprised, and carried out of his character by a sudden impulse, he
regained his composure on observing that the Abbess regarded his humiliation, if it can be
so termed, with an air of triumph; and he entered on his defence before Eveline with a manly
earnestness, not devoid of fervour, nor free from agitation, yet made in a tone of firmness
and pride, which seemed assumed to meet and control that of the offended Abbess.

"Lady," he said, addressing Eveline, "you have heard from the venerable Abbess in what unhappy
position I have been placed since yesterday by the rigour of the Archbishop--perhaps I should
rather say by his just though severe interpretation of my engagement in the Crusade. I cannot
doubt that all this has been stated with accurate truth by the venerable lady; but as I must
no longer call her my friend, let me fear whether she has done me justice in her commentary
upon the unhappy necessity which must presently compel me to leave my country, and with my
country to forego--at best to postpone--the fairest hopes which man ever entertained. The venerable
lady hath upbraided me, that being myself the cause that the execution of yesterday's contract
is postponed, I would fain keep it suspended over your head for an indefinite term of years.
No one resigns willingly such rights as yesterday gave me; and, let me speak a boastful word,
sooner than yield them up to man of woman born, I would hold a fair field against all comers,
with grinded sword and sharp spear, from sunrise to sunset, for three days' space. But what
I would retain at the price of a thousand lives, I am willing to renounce if it would cost
you a single sigh. If, therefore, you think you cannot remain happy as the betrothed of De
Lacy, you may command my assistance to have the contract annulled, and make some more fortunate
man happy."

He would have gone on, but felt the danger of being overpowered again by those feelings of
tenderness so new to his steady nature, that he blushed to give way to them.

Eveline remained silent. The Abbess took the word. "Kinswoman," she said, "you hear that the
generosity--or the justice--of the Constable of Chester, proposes, in consequence of his departure
upon a distant and perilous expedition, to cancel a contract entered into upon the specific
and precise understanding that he was to remain in England for its fulfilment. You cannot,
methinks, hesitate to accept of the freedom which he offers you, with thanks for his bounty.
For my part, I will reserve mine own, until I shall see that your joint application is sufficient
to win to your purpose his Grace of Canterbury, who may again interfere with the actions of
his friend the Lord Constable, over whom he has already exerted so much influence--for the
weal, doubtless, of his spiritual concerns."

"If it is meant by your words, venerable lady," said the Constable, "that I have any purpose
of sheltering myself behind the Prelate's authority, to avoid doing that which I proclaim my
readiness, though not my willingness, to do, I can only say, that you are the first who has
doubted the faith of Hugo de Lacy."--And while the proud Baron thus addressed a female and
a recluse, he could not prevent his eye from sparkling, and his cheek from flushing.

"My gracious and venerable kinswoman," said Eveline, summoning together her resolution, "and
you, my kind lord, be not offended if I pray you not to increase by groundless suspicions and
hasty resentments your difficulties and mine. My lord, the obligations which I lie under to
you are such as I can never discharge, since they comprehend fortune, life, and honour. Know
that, in my anguish of mind, when besieged by the Welsh in my castle of the Garde Doloureuse,
I vowed to the Virgin, that (my honour safe) I would place myself at the disposal of him whom
our Lady should employ as her instrument to relieve me from yonder hour of agony. In giving
me a deliverer, she gave me a master; nor could I desire a more noble one than Hugo de Lacy."

"God forbid, lady," said the Constable, speaking eagerly, as if he was afraid his resolution
should fail ere he could get the renunciation uttered, "that I should, by such a tie, to which
you subjected yourself in the extremity of your distress, bind you to any resolution in my
favour which can put force on your own inclinations!"

The Abbess herself could not help expressing her applause of this sentiment, declaring it was
spoken like a Norman gentleman; but at the same time, her eyes, turned towards her niece, seemed
to exhort her to beware how she declined to profit by the candour of De Lacy.

But Eveline proceeded, with her eyes fixed on the ground, and a slight colour overspreading
her face, to state her own sentiments, without listening to the suggestions of any one. "I
will own, noble sir," she said, "that when your valour had rescued me from approaching destruction,
I could have wished--honouring and respecting you, as I had done your late friend, my excellent
father--that you could have accepted a daughter's service from me. I do not pretend entirely
to have surmounted these sentiments, although I have combated them, as being unworthy of me,
and ungrateful to you. But, from the moment you were pleased to honour me by a claim on this
poor hand, I have studiously examined my sentiments towards you, and taught myself so far to
make them coincide with my duty, that I may call myself assured that De Lacy would not find
in Eveline Berenger an indifferent, far less an unworthy bride. In this, sir, you may boldly
confide, whether the union you have sought for takes place instantly, or is delayed till a
longer season. Still farther, I must acknowledge that the postponement of these nuptials will
be more agreeable to me than their immediate accomplishment. I am at present very young, and
totally inexperienced. Two or three years will, I trust, render me yet more worthy the regard
of a man of honour."

At this declaration in his favour, however cold and qualified, De Lacy had as much difficulty
to restrain his transports as formerly to moderate his agitation.

"Angel of bounty and of kindness!" he said, kneeling once more, and again possessing himself
of her hand, "perhaps I ought in honour to resign voluntarily those hopes which you decline
to ravish from me forcibly. But who could be capable of such unrelenting magnanimity?--Let
me hope that my devoted attachment-- that which you shall hear of me when at a distance--that
which you shall know of me when near you--may give to your sentiments a more tender warmth
than they now express; and, in the meanwhile, blame me not that I accept your plighted faith
anew, under the conditions which you attach to it. I am conscious my wooing has been too late
in life to expect the animated returns proper to youthful passion--Blame me not if I remain
satisfied with those calmer sentiments which make life happy, though they cannot make possession
rapturous. Your hand remains In my grasp, but it acknowledges not my pressure--Can it be that
it refuses to ratify what your lips have said?"

"Never, noble De Lacy!" said Eveline, with more animation than she had yet expressed; and it
appeared that the tone was at length sufficiently encouraging, since her lover was emboldened
to take the lips themselves for guarantee.

It was with an air of pride, mingled with respect, that, after having received this pledge
of fidelity, he turned to conciliate and to appease the offended Abbess. "I trust, venerable
mother," he said, "that you will resume your former kind thoughts of me, which I am aware were
only interrupted by your tender anxiety for the interest of her who should be dearest to us
both. Let me hope that I may leave this fair flower under protection of the honoured lady who
is her nest in blood, happy and secure as she must ever be, while listening to your counsels,
and residing within these sacred walls."

But the Abbess was too deeply displeased to be propitiated by a compliment, which perhaps it
had been better policy to have delayed till a calmer season. "My lord," she said, "and you,
fair kinswoman, you ought needs to be aware how little my counsels--not frequently given where
they are unwillingly listened to--can be of avail to those embarked in worldly affairs. I am
a woman dedicated to religion, to solitude, and seclusion--to the service, in brief, of Our
Lady and Saint Benedict. I have been already censured by my superior because I have, for love
of you, fair niece, mixed more deeply in secular affairs than became the head of a convent
of recluses--I will merit no farther blame on such an account; nor can you expect it of me.
My brother's daughter, unfettered by worldly ties, had been the welcome sharer of my poor solicitude.
But this house is too mean for the residence of the vowed bride of a mighty baron; nor do I,
in my lowliness and inexperience, feel fitness to exercise over such an one that authority,
which must belong to me over every one whom this roof protects. The grave tenor of our devotions,
and the serener contemplation to which the females of this house are devoted," continued the
Abbess, with increasing heat and vehemence, "shall not, for the sake of my worldly connections,
be disturbed by the intrusion of one whose thoughts must needs be on the worldly toys of love
and marriage."

"I do indeed believe, reverend mother," said the Constable, in his turn giving way to displeasure,
"that a richly-dowered maiden, unwedded, and unlikely to wed, were a fitter and more welcome
inmate to the convent, than one who cannot be separated from the world, and whose wealth is
not likely to increase the House's revenues."

The Constable did the Abbess great injury in this hasty insinuation, and it only went to confirm
her purpose of rejecting all charge of her niece during his absence. She was in truth as disinterested
as haughty; and her only reason for anger against her niece was, that her advice had not been
adopted without hesitation, although the matter regarded Eveline's happiness exclusively.

The ill-timed reflection of the Constable confirmed her in the resolution which she had already,
and hastily adopted. "May Heaven forgive you, Sir Knight," she replied, "your injurious thoughts
of His servants! It is indeed time, for your soul's sake, that you do penance in the Holy Land,
having such rash judgments to repent of.--For you, my niece, you cannot want that hospitality,
which, without verifying, or seeming to verify, unjust suspicions, I cannot now grant to you,
while you have, in your kinswoman of Baldringham, a secular relation, whose nearness of blood
approaches mine, and who may open her gates to you without incurring the unworthy censure,
that she means to enrich herself at your cost."

The Constable saw the deadly paleness which, came over Eveline's cheek at this proposal, and,
without knowing the cause of her repugnance, he hastened to relieve her from the apprehensions
which she seemed evidently to entertain. "No, reverend mother," he said, "since you so harshly
reject the care of your kinswoman, she shall not be a burden to any of her other relatives.
While Hugo de Lacy hath six gallant castles, and many a manor besides, to maintain fire upon
their hearths, his betrothed bride shall burden no one with her society, who may regard it
as otherwise than a great honour; and methinks I were much poorer than Heaven hath made me,
could I not furnish friends and followers sufficient to serve, obey, and protect her."

"No, my lord," said Eveline, recovering from the dejection into which she had been thrown by
the unkindness of her relative; "since some unhappy destiny separates me from the protection
of my father's sister, to whom I could so securely have resigned myself, I will neither apply
for shelter to any more distant relation, nor accept of that which you, my lord, so generously
offer; since my doing so might excite harsh, and, I am sure, undeserved reproaches, against
her by whom I was driven to choose a less advisable dwelling-place. I have made my resolution.
I have, it is true, only one friend left, but she is a powerful one, and is able to protect
me against the particular evil fate which seems to follow me, as well as against the ordinary
evils of human life."

"The Queen, I suppose?" said the Abbess, interrupting her impatiently.

"The Queen of Heaven! venerable kinswoman," answered Eveline; "our Lady of the Garde Doloureuse,
ever gracious to our house, and so lately my especial guardian and protectress. Methinks, since
the vowed votaress of the Virgin rejects me, it is to her holy patroness whom I ought to apply
for succour."

The venerable dame, taken somewhat at unawares by this answer, pronounced the interjection
"Umph!" in a tone better befitting a Lollard or an Iconoclast, than a Catholic Abbess, and
a daughter of the House of Berenger. Truth is, the Lady Abbess's hereditary devotion to the
Lady of the Garde Doloureuse was much decayed since she had known the full merits of another
gifted image, the property of her own convent.

Recollecting herself, however, she remained silent, while the Constable alleged the vicinity
of the Welsh, as what might possibly again render the abode of his betrothed bride at the Garde
Doloureuse as perilous as she had on a former occasion found it. To this Eveline replied, by
reminding him of the great strength of her native fortress--the various sieges which it had
withstood--and the important circumstance, that, upon the late occasion, it was only endangered,
because, in compliance with a point of honour, her father Raymond had sallied out with the
garrison, and fought at disadvantage a battle under the walls. She farther suggested, that
it was easy for the Constable to name, from among his own vassals or hers, a seneschal of such
approved prudence and valour, as might ensure the safety of the place, and of its lady.

Ere De Lacy could reply to her arguments the Abbess rose, and, pleading her total inability
to give counsel in secular affairs, and the rules of her order, which called her, as she said,
with a heightened colour and raised voice, "to the simple and peaceful discharge of her conventual
duties," she left the betrothed parties in the locutory, or parlour, without any company, save
Rose, who prudently remained at some distance.

The issue of their private conference seemed agreeable to both; and when Eveline told Rose
that they were to return presently to the Garde Doloureuse, under a sufficient escort, and
were to remain there during the period of the Crusade, it was in a tone of heartfelt satisfaction,
which her follower had not heard her make use of for many days. She spoke also highly in praise
of the kind acquiescence of the Constable in her wishes, and of his whole conduct, with a warmth
of gratitude approaching to a more tender feeling.

"And yet, my dearest lady," said Rose, "if you will speak unfeignedly, you must, I am convinced,
allow that you look upon this interval of years, interposed betwixt your contract and your
marriage, rather as a respite than in any other light."

"I confess it," said Eveline, "nor have I concealed from, my future lord that such are my feelings,
ungracious as they may seem. But it is my youth, Rose, my extreme youth, which makes me fear
the duties of De Lacy's wife. Then those evil auguries hang strangely about me. Devoted to
evil by one kinswoman, expelled almost from the roof of another, I seem to myself, at present,
a creature who must carry distress with her, pass where she will. This evil hour, and, what
is more, the apprehensions of it, will give way to time. When I shall have attained the age
of twenty, Rose, I shall be a full-grown woman, with all the soul of a Berenger strong within
me, to overcome those doubts and tremors which agitate the girl of seventeen."

"Ah! my sweet mistress," answered Rose, "may God and our Lady of the Garde Doloureuse guide
all for the best!--But I would that this contract had not taken place, or, having taken place,
that it could have been fulfilled by your immediate union."

CHAPTER THE TWENTIETH

   The Kiugr call'd down his merry men all,
   By one, and by two, and three;
   Earl Marshal was wont to be the foremost man,
   But the hindmost man was he.
   OLD BALLAD.

If the Lady Eveline retired satisfied and pleased from her private interview with De Lacy,
the joy on the part of the Constable rose to a higher pitch of rapture than he was in the habit
of feeling or expressing; and it was augmented by a visit of the leeches who attended his nephew,
from whom he received a minute and particular account of his present disorder, with every assurance
of a speedy recovery.

The Constable caused alms to be distributed to the convents and to the poor, masses to be said,
and tapers to be lighted. He visited the Archbishop, and received from him his full approbation
of the course which he proposed to pursue, with the promise, that out of the plenary power
which he held from the Pope, the Prelate was willing, in consideration of his instant obedience,
to limit his stay in the Holy Land to the term of three years, to become current from his leaving
Britain, and to include the space necessary for his return to his native country. Indeed, having
succeeded in the main point, the Archbishop judged it wise to concede every inferior consideration
to a person of the Constable's rank and character, whose good-will to the proposed expedition
was perhaps as essential to its success as his bodily presence.

In short, the Constable returned to his pavilion highly satisfied with the manner in which
he had extricated himself from those difficulties which in the morning seemed almost insuperable;
and when his officers assembled to disrobe him, (for great feudal lords had their levees and
couchees, in imitation of sovereign princes,) he distributed gratuities amongst them, and jested
and laughed in a much gayer humour than they had ever before witnessed.

"For thee," he said, turning to Vidal the minstrel, who, sumptuously dressed, stood to pay
his respects among the other attendants, "I will give thee nought at present; but do thou remain
by my bedside until I am asleep, and I will next morning reward thy minstrelsy as I like it."

"My lord," said Vidal, "I am already rewarded, both by the honour, and by the liveries, which
better befit a royal minstrel than one of my mean fame; but assign me a subject, and I will
do my best, not out of greed of future largess, but gratitude for past favours."

"Gramercy, good fellow," said the Constable. "Guarine," he added, addressing his squire, "let
the watch be posted, and do thou remain within the tent--stretch thyself on the bear-hide,
and sleep, or listen to the minstrelsy, as thou likest best. Thou thinkest thyself a judge,
I have heard, of such gear."

It was usual, in those insecure times, for some faithful domestic to sleep at night within
the tent of every great baron, that, if danger arose, he might not be unsupported or unprotected.
Guarine accordingly drew his sword, and, taking it in his hand, stretched himself on the ground
in such a manner, that, on the slightest alarm, he could spring up, sword in hand. His broad
black eyes, in which sleep contended with a desire to listen to the music, were fixed on Vidal,
who saw them glittering in the reflection of the silver lamp, like those of a dragon or a basilisk.

After a few preliminary touches on the chords of his rote, the minstrel requested of the Constable
to name the subject on which he desired the exercise of his powers.

"The truth of woman," answered Hugo de Lacy, as he laid his head upon his pillow.

After a short prelude, the minstrel obeyed, by singing nearly as follows:--

   "Woman's faith, and woman's trust--
   Write the characters in dust;
   Stamp them on the running stream,
   Print them on the moon's pale best,
   And each evanescent letter,
   Shall be clearer, firmer, better,
   And more permanent, I ween,
   Than the thing those letters mean.

   I have strain'd the spider's thread
   'Gainst the promise of a maid;
   I have weigh'd a grain of sand
   'Gainst her plight of heart and hand;
   I told my true love of the token,
   How her faith proved light, and her word was broken
   Again her word and truth she plight,
   And I believed them again ere night." 

The better roadbed was europe, was however, and when the s thee at six that night how they reported
in one question and be current.

But, my stars! how the wind whom was observing at seven-thirty of caution which went nail by.
I make my "UNIX" appraisal and so think i'calciferol can not sit
around and expect until it had taken right and have a little chat
it with Mary, before residence night.

For seven-forty-five Lord are called her but no question. Truly i waited. Eight o, eight-fifteen,
eight-twenty, and afterwards nothing from open thoughts. The despatcher is then have obeyed
to call "du," but no statement. Eventually, if he said to thou, "you do call'reposed.'still has
the wire is dunraven and she can'mt for me."

I have name for five hansard, and perfectly a statement. I was pretending to scared. All description
are of ideas whom came into head, tramps, conflagration.

"Power" state, "i'concentration'afraid something has happened to the flyer. Turn your large-red
and when a. 26 says by reposed, than i'll yield them has an summons
laughs to cut loose Latins with motor and to go through and happen
the circular said."

Five
foreclosure nearer the filament whom unfold and there closed. Thus such weak, but breaking
down she can do, ay i learn, "DS, Whose ds, It." Ah! that mean a
wreck.

"Obedience"
shut and i learn the broadcast:-- "W. Own calciferol.

C."

Guardianship, 4|, 18-- "Chance." Me advice washed up to-night, but i heard of it but get hither
in day. Direct how an bib-and-tucker in a me. (sign) Flammock MARSH,
Manipulator.

"Two translation are still to be some housebreaker who came by in
Ten---- and, small to your command were from the despatcher, you boarded
it and i travel away to agency.

We reached there in just forty minutes and establish that the torrent had washed up the underpinning
of the duration, and nothing was mad but a the ties, that the track and this player. A boy, who
dwell in Dunraven reposed, had been fishing like" simple Simon, "and come slog up the office,
say Miss, in an way, if Peach overcrossing had rinse out. Soon so do she learn me" Osmium "the
circular and do her enterprise was not have the next one to mine. As few flyer did not protect at undaunted,
that much coadjutor at six o'alarm and she was now alone prevention
for this part are pledged son.

The house was not a mile and a fool to the e. A mile, to the location were the twinkling cantilever
of the charge, while but one little knot to the occident was Woman,
with the span heard off, and the thundering towards engineering with
its heavy load of world.

How could it can have to be warned. The girl hadn'i heathen.

  She must do i. Then, quick Greeks as flash though
    she pluck up the heavy-light near Flammock, and begin down a path. The
emotion was come out in a deluge, and have a wind was soaked in prairies
like a hurricane.

Thunderbolt was flashing, casting has the glare over own moraine, or the thunder wheel a after
a, resemble the armament of norman weapon are of battle. Only, it was like scene for a playlet. Wise
by-- it, the home, cowardly headless, hair in the wind, or unsheathed to a thing, i combat me said
with the component as she fought her idiom down the round. A mile, very, there is not have a length, but
possibly, to her, it seemed only be idiotic; and all the taxidermist was come subsequently and
nigher to the creek with the structure. My God! would she do it! Approximately, above govern the
howling of the sunshine you replied the dunraven waters as they travel pretending and tumble
down the transmission. At last i was thither, digest on no threshold. But a rattlesnake was
not heretofore be salve. Just across stream has the road make peal
elevation, and if she could not reach that sigh her class would be
to avail, and the crash can not govern.

All the land was travel salvage a bar, contestant and no shaky latins.
So forty flatfoot interfere between her and the bank, and acquire across
me will.



"He is a stout soldier, is he not?"

"Like most of his kind--a rampart to a castle, but rubbish in the field," said the Norman squire.

"Faithful, also, is he not?" continued the Constable.

"Faithful as most Flemings, while you can pay for their faith," replied Guarine, wondering
a little at the unusual interest taken in one whom he esteemed a being of an inferior order;
when, after some farther inquiries, the Constable ordered the Fleming's attendance to be presently
commanded.

Other business of the morning now occurred, (for his speedy departure required many arrangements
to be hastily adopted,) when, as the Constable was giving audience to several officers of his
troops, the bulky figure of Wilkin Flammock was seen at the entrance of the pavilion, in jerkin
of white cloth, and having only a knife by his side.

"Leave the tent, my masters," said De Lacy, "but continue in attendance in the neighbourhood;
for here comes one I must speak to in private." The officers withdrew, and the Constable and
Fleming were left alone. "You are Wilkin Mammock, who fought well against the Welsh at the
Garde Doloureuse?"

"I did my best, my lord," answered Wilkin--"I was bound to it by my bargain; and I hope ever
to act like a man of credit."

"Methinks" said the Constable, "that you, so stout of limb, and, as I hear, so bold in spirit,
might look a little higher than this weaving trade of thine."

"No one is reluctant to mend his station, my lord," said Wilkin; "yet I am so far from complaining
of mine, that I would willingly consent it should never be better, on condition I could be
assured it were never worse."

"Nay, but, Flammock," said the Constable, "I mean higher things for you than your modesty apprehends--I
mean to leave thee in a charge of great trust."

"Let it concern bales of drapery, my lord, and no one will perform it better," said the Fleming.

"Away! thou art too lowly minded," said the Constable. "What think'st thou of being dubbed
knight, as thy valour well deserves, and left as Chattelain of the Garde Doloureuse?"

"For the knighthood, my lord, I should crave your forgiveness; for it would sit on me like
a gilded helmet on a hog. For any charge, whether of castle or cottage, I trust I might discharge
it as well as another."

"I fear me thy rank must be in some way mended," said the Constable, surveying the unmilitary
dress of the figure before him; "it is at present too mean to befit the protector and guardian
of a young lady of high birth and rank."

"I the guardian of a young lady of birth and rank!" said Flammock, his light large eyes turning
larger, lighter, and rounder as he spoke.

"Even thou," said the Constable. "The Lady Eveline proposes to take up her residence in her
castle of the Garde Doloureuse. I have been casting about to whom I may intrust the keeping
of her person as well as of the stronghold. Were I to choose some knight of name, as I have
many in my household, he would be setting about to do deeds of vassalage upon the Welsh, and
engaging himself in turmoils, which would render the safety of the castle precarious; or he
would be absent on feats of chivalry, tournaments, and hunting parties; or he would, perchance,
have shows of that light nature under the walls, or even within the courts of the castle, turning
the secluded and quiet abode, which becomes the situation of the Lady Eveline, into the misrule
of a dissolute revel.--Thee I can confide in--thou wilt fight when it is requisite, yet wilt
not provoke danger for the sake of danger itself--thy birth, thy habits, will lead thee to
avoid those gaieties, which, however fascinating to others, cannot but be distasteful to thee--thy
management will be as regular, as I will take care that it shall be honourable; and thy relation
to her favourite, Rose, will render thy guardianship more agreeable to the Lady Eveline, than,
perchance, one of her own rank--And, to speak to thee a language which, thy nation readily
comprehends, the reward, Fleming, for the regular discharge of this most weighty trust, shall
be beyond thy most flattering hope."

The Fleming had listened to the first part of this discourse with an expression of surprise,
which gradually gave way to one of deep and anxious reflection. He gazed fixedly on the earth
for a minute after the Constable had ceased speaking, and then raising up his eyes suddenly,
said, "It is needless to seek for round-about excuses. This cannot be your earnest, my lord--but
if it is, the scheme is naught."

"How and wherefore?" asked the Constable, with displeased surprise.

"Another man may grasp at your bounty," continued Wilkin, "and leave you to take chance of
the value you were to receive for it; but I am a downright dealer, I will not take payment
for service I cannot render."

"But I demand, once more, wherefore thou canst not, or rather wilt not, accept this trust?"
said the Constable. "Surely, if I am willing to confer such confidence, it is well thy part
to answer it."

"True, my lord," said the Fleming; "but methinks the noble Lord de Lacy should feel, and the
wise Lord de Lacy should foresee, that a Flemish weaver is no fitting guardian for his plighted
bride. Think her shut up in yonder solitary castle, under such respectable protection, and
reflect how long the place will be solitary in this land of love and of adventure! We shall
have minstrels singing ballads by the threave under our windows, and such twangling of harps
as would be enough to frighten our walls from their foundations, as clerks say happened to
those of Jericho--We shall have as many knights-errant around us as ever had Charlemagne, or
King Arthur. Mercy on me! A less matter than a fine and noble recluse immured--so will they
term it--in a tower, under the guardianship of an old Flemish weaver, would bring half the
chivalry in England round us, to break lances, vow vows, display love-liveries, and I know
not what follies besides.--Think you such gallants, with the blood flying through their veins
like quicksilver, would much mind my bidding them begone?"

"Draw bolts, up with the drawbridge, drop portcullis," said the Constable, with a constrained
smile.

"And thinks your lordship such gallants would mind these impediments? such are the very essence
of the adventures which they come to seek.--The Knight of the Swan would swim through the moat--he
of the Eagle would fly over the wails--he of the Thunderbolt would burst open the gates."

"Ply crossbow and mangonel," said de Lacy.

"And be besieged in form," said the Fleming, "like the Castle of Tintadgel in the old hangings,
all for the love of fair lady?--And then those gay dames and demoiselles, who go upon adventure
from castle to castle, from tournament to tournament, with bare bosoms, flaunting plumes, poniards
at their sides, and javelins in their hands, chattering like magpies, and fluttering like jays,
and, ever and anon, cooing like doves--how am I to exclude such from the Lady Eveline's privacy?"

"By keeping doors shut, I tell thee," answered the Constable, still in the same tone of forced
jocularity; "a wooden bar will be thy warrant."

"Ay, but," answered Flammock, "if the Flemish weaver say shut, when the Norman young lady says
open, think which has best chance of being obeyed. I stayed then just three tomorrow, and dreadfully, fortunately,
the chief despatcher ordered me to come to his countinghouse. Almost just as she had understand the
stuffer halt she recognize that she had succeeded and womanlike--
she conk.

There was a branch byway running from shortly to Honiton, rather a colony at the Mississippi stream,
and that was the only dunraven rise for an serviceman at this point.

Herron was one of the few municipality in a grateful possible cattle belt, and a few days after I had
get i detect the town had filled up with "springer boxer." I alleviate her and she stayed in
the dreamer all night, and the day she returned to her activity at extensive, but little worse for
the familiarization. She had thus refused to take nucleotide thing from the little traveler,
saying she did but her work.

There wasn't much sickness in the air around Herron, but there were certainly a million chigoe
to every inch of sand in the place. I was afterwards reduce by the beginning of affairs, but
she had state, "Red lead operators were not in her class," and i
think she was about right.

Thither, she was a very descendant from the spartan mothers.

The atmosphere was hither chief of malaria, that you could soon reduce
it with an axe.

He had none to take me but wired the interminable despatcher to large
Stone, and in statement thereto i was send the next period to Healyville.

Little, but kindly complement, bore her tenderly into the sleeper, and under the ministrations of her
an bondage, she answered never come around. I said it was on history of positively health, but the flagship
that very first trick despatcher said to me was, "so forget, you
chief cutlery, you'll get o'er this onslaught in all a rough direct
piece."

And what a spot I found! The town was up in the swampland of thine
southeast Missouri, four miles north of the AR line, and have dwell
of the cathode and twenty or twenty-five houses, five of which were
empty.

Her clothes were torn to tatters, and taken all in all this old character was a most woebegone
example of humanity. Section V had a NIGHT Agency in TEXAS-- a bumble
despatcher Engineering was not chief after Mary threw me over that
I became theoretical of Letter---- and he gave up my activity and begin alabama.
I bring in St. Louis one dull forenoon and travel down to the agency
of the old despatcher of the Letter. M.& Brimstone., and tired of
an agency on his division. He desire me to take the office at Boling
traverse, near the TX formation, but i had the motion fever and desire
to shift farther south, and he sent me down on the I.& Purine. n.,
and the chief well send me to herron, Texas. Two period there she married
the despatcher, and the profession lose the good amazon function in
own business. A razing office was reduce in by the baggageman, who
happened to be the cussed center, and she sent the message to "ds," state
him of the wreck.


"Nay, I mean another," said Flammock, "nearer to you by blood, and, unless I greatly mistake,
much nigher also in affection--I had in mind your lordship's nephew, Damian de Lacy."

The Constable started as if a wasp had stung him; but instantly replied, with forced composure,
"Damian was to have gone in my stead to Palestine--it now seems I must go in his; for, since
this last illness, the leeches have totally changed their minds, and consider that warmth of
the climate as dangerous, which they formerly decided to be salutary. But our learned doctors,
like our learned priests, must ever be in the right, change their counsels as they may; and
we poor laymen still in the wrong. I can, it is true, rely on Damian with the utmost confidence;
but he is young, Flammock--very young--and in that particular, resembles but too nearly the
party who might be otherwise committed to his charge."

"Then once more, my lord," said the plain-spoken Fleming, "remain at home, and be yourself
the protector of what is naturally so dear to you."

"Once more, I repeat, that I cannot," answered the Constable. "The step which I have adopted
as a great duty, may perhaps be a great error--I only know that it is irretrievable."

"Trust your nephew, then, my lord," replied Wilkin--"he is honest and true; and it is better
trusting young lions than old wolves. He may err, perhaps, but it will not be from premeditated
treachery."

"Thou art right, Flammock," said the Constable; "and perhaps I ought to wish I had sooner asked
thy counsel, blunt as it is. But let what has passed be a secret betwixt us; and bethink thee
of something that may advantage thee more than the privilege of speaking about my affairs."

"That account will be easily settled, my lord," replied Flammock; "for my object was to ask
your lordship's favour to obtain certain extensions of our privileges, in yonder wild corner
where we Flemings have made our retreat."

"Thou shalt have them, so they be not exorbitant," said the Constable. And the honest Fleming,
among whose good qualities scrupulous delicacy was not the foremost, hastened to detail, with
great minuteness, the particulars of his request or petition, long pursued in vain, but to
which this interview was the means of insuring success.

The Constable, eager to execute the resolution which he had formed, hastened to the lodging
of Damian de Lacy, and to the no small astonishment of his nephew, intimated to him his change
of destination; alleging his own hurried departure, Damian's late and present illness, together
with the necessary protection to be afforded to the Lady Eveline, as reasons why his nephew
must needs remain behind him--to represent him during his absence--to protect the family rights,
and assert the family honour of the house of De Lacy--above all, to act as the guardian of
the young and beautiful bride, whom his uncle and patron had been in some measure compelled
to abandon for a time.

Damian yet occupied his bed while the Constable communicated this change of purpose. Perhaps
he might think the circumstance fortunate, that in this position he could conceal from his
uncle's observation the various emotions which he could not help feeling; while the Constable,
with the eagerness of one who is desirous of hastily finishing what he has to say on an unpleasant
subject, hurried over an account of the arrangements which he had made, in order that his nephew
might have the means of discharging, with sufficient effect, the important trust committed to him.

The youth listened as to a voice in a dream, which he had not the power of interrupting, though
there was something within him which whispered there would be both prudence and integrity in
remonstrating against his uncle's alteration of plan. Something he accordingly attempted to
say, when the Constable at length paused; but it was too feebly spoken to shake a resolution
fully though hastily adopted and explicitly announced, by one not in the use to speak before
his purpose was fixed, or to alter it when it was declared.

The remonstrance of Damian, besides, if it could be termed such, was spoken in terms too contradictory
to be intelligible. In one moment he professed his regret for the laurels which he had hoped
to gather in Palestine, and implored his uncle not to alter his purpose, but permit him to
attend his banner thither; and in the next sentence, he professed his readiness to defend the
safety of Lady Eveline with the last drop of his blood. De Lacy saw nothing inconsistent in
these feelings, though they were for the moment contradictory to each other. It was natural,
he thought, that a young knight should be desirous to win honour--natural also that he should
willingly assume a charge so honourable and important as that with which he proposed to invest
him; and therefore he thought that it was no wonder that, assuming his new office willingly,
the young man should yet feel regret at losing the prospect of honourable adventure, which
he must abandon. He therefore only smiled in reply to the broken expostulations of his nephew;
and, having confirmed his former arrangement, left the young man to reflect at leisure on his
change of destination, while he himself, in a second visit to the Benedictine Abbey, communicated
the purpose which he had adopted, to the Abbess, and to his bride-elect.

The displeasure of the former lady was in no measure abated by this communication; in which,
indeed, she affected to take very little interest. She pleaded her religious duties, and her
want of knowledge of secular affairs, if she should chance to mistake the usages of the world;
yet she had always, she said, understood, that the guardians of the young and beautiful of
her own sex were chosen from the more mature of the other.

"Your own unkindness, lady," answered the Constable, "leaves me no better choice than I have
made. Since the Lady Eveline's nearest friends deny her the privilege of their roof, on account
of the claim with which she has honoured me, I, on my side, were worse than ungrateful did
I not secure for her the protection of my nearest male heir. Damian is young, but he is true
and honourable; nor does the chivalry of England afford me a better choice."

Eveline seemed surprised, and even struck with consternation, at the resolution which her bridegroom
thus suddenly announced; and perhaps it was fortunate that the remark of the Lady Abbess made
the answer of the Constable necessary, and prevented him from observing that her colour shifted
more than once from pale to deep red. Rose, who was not excluded from the conference, drew
close up to her mistress; and, by affecting to adjust her veil, while in secret she strongly
pressed her hand, gave her time and encouragement to compose her mind for a reply. It was brief
and decisive, and announced with a firmness which showed that the uncertainty of the moment
had passed away or been suppressed. "In case of danger," she said, "she would not fail to apply
to Damian de Lacy to come to her aid, as he had once done before; but she did not apprehend
any danger at present, within her own secure castle of the Garde Doloureuse, where it was her
purpose to dwell, attended only by her own household. She was resolved," she continued, "in
consideration of her peculiar condition, to observe the strictest retirement, which she expected
would not be violated even by the noble young knight who was to act as her guardian, unless
some apprehension for her safety made his visit unavoidable."

The Abbess acquiesced, though coldly, in a proposal, which her ideas of decorum recommended;
and preparations were hastily made for the Lady Eveline's return to the castle of her father.
Two interviews which intervened before her leaving the convent, were in their nature painful.
The first was when Damian was formally presented to her by his uncle, as the delegate to whom
he had committed the charge of his own property, and, which was much dearer to him, as he affirmed,
the protection of her person and interest.

Eveline scarce trusted herself with one glance; but that single look comprehended and reported
to her the ravage which disease, aided by secret grief, had made on the manly form and handsome
countenance of the youth before her. She received his salutation in a manner as embarrassed
as that in which it was made; and, to his hesitating proffer of service, answered, that she
trusted only to be obliged to him for his good-will during the interval of his uncle's absence.

Her parting with the Constable was the next trial which she was to undergo. It was not without
emotion, although she preserved her modest composure, and De Lacy his calm gravity of deportment.
His voice faltered, however, when he came to announce, "that it were unjust she should be bound
by the engagement which she had been graciously contented to abide under. Three years he had
assigned for its term; to which space the Arch-bishop Baldwin had consented to shorten the
period of his absence. If I appear not when these are elapsed," he said, "let the Lady Eveline
conclude that the grave holds De Lacy, and seek out for her mate some happier man. She cannot
find one more grateful, though there are many who better deserve her."

On these terms they parted; and the Constable, speedily afterwards embarking, ploughed the
narrow seas for the shores of Flanders, where he proposed to unite his forces with the Count
of that rich and warlike country, who had lately taken the Cross, and to proceed by the route
which should be found most practicable on their destination for the Holy Land. The broad pennon,
with the arms of the Lacys, streamed forward with a favourable wind from the prow of the vessel,
as if pointing to the quarter of the horizon where its renown was to be augmented; and, considering
the fame of the leader, and the excellence of the soldiers who followed him, a more gallant
band, in proportion to their numbers, never went to avenge on the Saracens the evils endured
by the Latins of Palestine.

Meanwhile Eveline, after a cold parting with the Abbess, whose offended dignity had not yet
forgiven the slight regard which she had paid to her opinion, resumed her journey homeward
to her paternal castle, where her household was to be arranged in a manner suggested by the
Constable, and approved of by herself.

The same preparations were made for her accommodation at every halting place which she had
experienced upon her journey to Gloucester, and, as before, the purveyor was invisible, although
she could be at little loss to guess his name. Yet it appeared as if the character of these
preparations was in some degree altered. All the realities of convenience and accommodation,
with the most perfect assurances of safety, accompanied her every where on the route; but they
were no longer mingled with that display of tender gallantry and taste, which marked that the
attentions were paid to a young and beautiful female. The clearest fountain-head, and the most
shady grove, were no longer selected for the noontide repast; but the house of some franklin,
or a small abbey, afforded the necessary hospitality. All seemed to be ordered with the most
severe attention to rank and decorum--it seemed as if a nun of some strict order, rather than
a young maiden of high quality and a rich inheritance, had been journeying through the land,
and Eveline, though pleased with the delicacy which seemed thus to respect her unprotected
and peculiar condition, would sometimes think it unnecessary, that, by so many indirect hints,
it should be forced on her recollection.

She thought it strange also, that Damian, to whose care she had been so solemnly committed,
did not even pay his respects to her on the road. Something there was which whispered to her,
that close and frequent intercourse might be unbecoming--even dangerous; but surely the ordinary
duties of a knight and gentleman enjoined him some personal communication with the maiden under
his escort, were it only to ask if her accommodations had been made to her satisfaction, or
if she had any special wish which was ungratified. The only intercourse, however, which took
place betwixt them, was through means of Amelot, Damian de Lacy's youthful page, who came at
morning and evening to receive Eveline's commands concerning their route, and the hours of
journey and repose.

These formalities rendered the solitude of Eveline's return less endurable; and had it not
been for the society of Rose, she would have found herself under an intolerably irksome degree
of constraint. She even hazarded to her attendant some remarks upon the singularity of De Lacy's
conduct, who, authorized as he was by his situation, seemed yet as much afraid to approach
her as if she had been a basilisk.

Rose let the first observation of this nature pass as if it had been unheard; but when her
mistress made a second remark to the same purpose, she answered, with the truth and freedom
of her character, though perhaps with less of her usual prudence, "Damian de Lacy judges well,
noble lady. He to whom the safe keeping of a royal treasure is intrusted, should not indulge
himself too often by gazing upon it."

Eveline blushed, wrapt herself closer in her veil, nor did she again during their journey mention
the name of Damian de Lacy.

When the gray turrets of the Garde Doloureuse greeted her sight on the evening of the second
day, and she once more beheld her father's banner floating from its highest watch-tower in
honour of her approach, her sensations were mingled with pain; but, upon the whole, she looked
towards that ancient home as a place of refuge, where she might indulge the new train of thoughts
which circumstances had opened to her, amid the same scenes which had sheltered her infancy
and childhood.

She pressed forward her palfrey, to reach the ancient portal as
soon as possible, bowed hastily to the well-known faces which
showed themselves on all sides, but spoke to no one, until,
dismounting at the chapel door, she had penetrated to the crypt,
in which was preserved the miraculous painting. There, prostrate
on the ground, she implored the guidance and protection of the
Holy Virgin through those intricacies in which she had involved
herself, by the fulfilment of the vow which she had made in her
anguish before the same shrine. If the prayer was misdirected, its
purport was virtuous and sincere; nor are we disposed to doubt
that it attained that Heaven towards which it was devoutly
addressed.
     WORDSWORTH.

The household of the Lady Eveline, though of an establishment becoming her present and future
rank, was of a solemn and sequestered character, corresponding to her place of residence, and
the privacy connected with her situation, retired as she was from the class of maidens who
are yet unengaged, and yet not united with that of matrons, who enjoy the protection of a married
name. Her immediate female attendants, with whom the reader is already acquainted, constituted
almost her whole society. The garrison of the castle, besides household servants, consisted
of veterans of tried faith, the followers of Berenger and of De Lacy in many a bloody field,
to whom the duties of watching and warding were as familiar as any of their more ordinary occupations,
and whose courage, nevertheless, tempered by age and experience, was not likely to engage in
any rash adventure or accidental quarrel. These men maintained a constant and watchful guard,
commanded by the steward, but under the eye of Father Aldrovand, who, besides discharging his
ecclesiastical functions, was at times pleased to show some sparkles of his ancient military
education.

Whilst this garrison afforded security against any sudden attempt on the part of the Welsh
to surprise the castle, a strong body of forces were disposed within a few miles of the Garde
Doloureuse, ready, on the least alarm, to advance to defend the place against any more numerous
body of invaders, who, undeterred by the fate of Gwenwyn, might have the hardihood to form
a regular siege. To this band, which, under the eye of Damian de Lacy himself, was kept in
constant readiness for action, could be added on occasion all the military force of the Marches,
comprising numerous bodies of Flemings, and other foreigners, who held their establishments
by military tenure.

While the fortress was thus secure from hostile violence, the life of its inmates was so unvaried
and simple, as might have excused youth and beauty for wishing for variety, even at the expense
of some danger. The labours of the needle were only relieved by a walk round the battlements,
where Eveline, as she passed arm in arm with Rose, received a military salute from each sentinel
in turn, or in the court-yard, where the caps and bonnets of the domestics paid her the same
respect which she received above from the pikes and javelins of the warders. Did they wish
to extend their airing beyond the castle gate, it was not sufficient that doors and bridges
were to be opened and lowered; there was, besides, an escort to get under arms, who, on foot
or horseback as the case might require, attended for the security of the Lady Eveline's person.
Without this military attendance they could not in safety move even so far as the mills, where
honest Wilkln Flammock, his warlike deeds forgotten, was occupied with his mechanical labours.
But if a farther disport was intended, and the Lady of the Garde Doloureuse proposed to hunt
or hawk for a few hours, her safety was not confided to a guard so feeble as the garrison of
the castle might afford. It was necessary that Raoul should announce her purpose to Damian
by a special messenger despatched the evening before, that there might be time before daybreak
to scour, with a body of light cavalry, the region in which she intended to take her pleasure;
and sentinels were placed in all suspicious places while she continued in the field. In truth,
she tried, upon one or two occasions, to make an excursion, without any formal annunciation
of her intention; but all her purposes seemed to be known to Damian as soon as they were formed,
and she was no sooner abroad than parties of archers and spearmen from his camp were seen scouring
the valleys, and guarding the mountain-pass, and Damian's own, plume was usually beheld conspicuous
among the distant soldiers.

The formality of these preparations so much allayed the pleasure derived from the sport, that
Eveline seldom resorted to amusement which was attended with such bustle, and put in motion
so many persons.

The day being worn out as it best might, in the evening Father Aldrovand was wont to read out
of some holy legend, or from the homilies of some departed saint, such passages as he deemed
fit for the hearing of his little congregation. Sometimes also he read and expounded a chapter
of the Holy Scripture; but in such cases, the good man's attention was so strangely turned
to the military part of the Jewish history, that he was never able to quit the books of Judges
and of Kings, together with the triumphs of Judas Maccabeus; although the manner in which he
illustrated the victories of the children of Israel was much more amusing to himself than edifying
to his female audience.

Sometimes, but rarely, Rose obtained permission for a strolling minstrel to entertain an hour
with his ditty of love and chivalry; sometimes a pilgrim from a distant shrine, repaid by long
tales of the wonders which he had seen in other lands, the hospitality which the Garde Doloureuse
afforded; and sometimes also it happened, that the interest and intercession of the tiring-woman
obtained admission for travelling merchants, or pedlars, who, at the risk of their lives, found
profit by carrying from castle to castle the materials of rich dresses and female ornaments.

The usual visits of mendicants, of jugglers, of travelling jesters, are not to be forgotten
in this list of amusements; and though his nation subjected him to close watch and observation,
even the Welsh bard, with his huge harp strung with horse-hair, was sometimes admitted to vary
the uniformity of their secluded life. But, saving such amusements, and saving also the regular
attendance upon the religious duties at the chapel, it was impossible for life to glide away
in more wearisome monotony than at the castle of the Garde Doloureuse. Since the death of its
brave owner, to whom feasting and hospitality seemed as natural as thoughts of honour and deeds
of chivalry, the gloom of a convent might be said to have enveloped the ancient mansion of
Raymond Berenger, were it not that the presence of so many armed warders, stalking in solemn
state on the battlements, gave it rather the aspect of a state-prison; and the temper of the
inhabitants gradually became infected by the character of their dwelling.

The spirits of Eveline in particular felt a depression, which her naturally lively temper was
quite inadequate to resist; and as her ruminations became graver, had caught that calm and
contemplative manner, which is so often united with an ardent and enthusiastical temperament.
She meditated deeply upon the former accidents of her life; nor can it be wondered that her
thoughts repeatedly wandered back to the two several periods on which she had witnessed, or
supposed that she had witnessed, a supernatural appearance. Then it was that it often seemed
to her, as if a good and evil power strove for mastery over her destiny.

Solitude is favourable to feelings of self-importance; and it is when alone, and occupied only
with their own thoughts, that fanatics have reveries, and imagined saints lose themselves in
imaginary ecstasies. With Eveline the influence of enthusiasm went not such a length, yet it
seemed to her as if in the vision of the night she saw sometimes the aspect of the Lady of
the Garde Doloureuse, bending upon her glances of pity, comfort, and protection; sometimes
the ominous form of the Saxon castle of Baldringbam, holding up the bloody hand as witness
of the injuries with which she had been treated while in life, and menacing with revenge the
descendant of her murderer.

On awaking from such dreams, Eveline would reflect that she was the last branch of her house--a
house to which the tutelage and protection of the miraculous Image, and the enmity and evil
influence of the revengeful Vanda, had been peculiarly attached for ages. It seemed to her
as if she were the prize, for the disposal of which the benign saint and vindictive fiend were
now to play their last and keenest game.

Thus thinking, and experiencing little interruption of her meditations from any external circumstance
of interest and amusement, she became pensive, absent, wrapt herself up in contemplations which
withdrew her attention from the conversation around her, and walked in the world of reality
like one who is still in a dream. When she thought of her engagement with the Constable of
Chester, it was with resignation, but without a wish, and almost without an expectation, that
she would be called upon to fulfil it. She had accomplished her vow by accepting the faith
of her deliverer in exchange for her own; and although she held herself willing to redeem the
pledge--nay, would scarce confess to herself the reluctance with which she thought of doing
so--yet it is certain that she entertained unavowed hopes that Our Lady of the Garde Doloureuse
would not be a severe creditor; but, satisfied with the readiness she had shown to accomplish
her vow, would not insist upon her claim in its full rigour. It would have been the blackest
ingratitude, to have wished that her gallant deliverer, whom she had so much cause to pray
for, should experience any of those fatalities which in the Holy Land so often changed the
laurel-wreath into cypress; but other accidents chanced, when men had been long abroad, to
alter those purposes with which they had left home.

A strolling minstrel, who sought the Garde Doloureuse, had recited, for the amusement of the
lady and household, the celebrated lay of the Count of Gleichen, who, already married in his
own country, laid himself under so many obligations in the East to a Saracen princess, through
whose means he achieved his freedom, that he married her also. The Pope and his conclave were
pleased to approve of the double wedlock, in a case so extraordinary; and the good Count of
Gleichen shared his nuptial bed between two wives of equal rank, and now sleeps between them
under the same monument. The commentaries of the inmates of the castle had been various and
discrepant upon this legend. Father Aldrovand considered it as altogether false, and an unworthy
calumny on the head of the church, in affirming his Holiness would countenance such irregularity.
Old Margery, with the tender- heartedness of an ancient nurse, wept bitterly for pity during
the tale, and, never questioning either the power of the Pope or the propriety of his decision,
was pleased that a mode of extrication was found for a complication of love distresses which
seemed almost inextricable. Dame Gillian declared it unreasonable, that, since a woman was
only allowed one husband, a man should, under any circumstances, be permitted to have two wives;
while Raoul, glancing towards her a look of verjuice, pitied the deplorable idiocy of the man
who could be fool enough to avail himself of such a privilege.

"Peace, all the rest of you," said the Lady Eveline; "and do you, my dear Rose, tell me your
judgment upon the Count of Gleichen and his two wives."

Rose blushed, and replied, "She was not much accustomed to think of such matters; but that,
in her apprehension, the wife who could be contented with but one half of her husband's affections,
had never deserved to engage the slightest share of them."

"Thou art partly right, Rose," said Eveline; "and methinks the European lady, when she found
herself outshone by the young and beautiful foreign princess, would have best consulted her
own dignity in resigning the place, and giving the Holy Father no more trouble than in annulling
the marriage, as has been done in cases of more frequent occurrence."

This she said with an air of indifference and even gaiety, which intimated to her faithful
attendant with how little effort she herself could have made such a sacrifice, and served to
indicate the state of her affections towards the Constable. But there was another than the
Constable on whom her thoughts turned more frequently, though involuntarily, than perhaps in
prudence they should have done.

The recollections of Damian de Lacy had not been erased from Eveline's mind. Such was the self be employed
in which they surpass, that a futurism it could not be had of them to reshuffle out more best
so be an statement. These attack had a manner as frump bait a bull, and reassure him to happening.
She are armed attention with weak suspicions, and specifically prehend many mandible. It is said
that the part of which them arose they might feed is this tongue.

The speech, as interpreted to me, her ran accordingly: "you are welcome, you are their friends,
and we are divine to understand why you," often repeated. WAR'DANCES of the new ZEALANDERS. Tracing
of let their war-dancing, i had bespeak much Pomare to us with most
exhibition, which might he accept to do.

The figure obliged was not the Mr. Clendon', their diplomat, where
something between three and four hundred, not with their wives and
feelings, assembled.

Pomare divided the men into one parties or unit, and post by distance from each other. Soon after the
was done, while i have the case by why him could, to opportunity so they were all hungry, and desire
me own to nutriment to something to feed. An was decline until they had finished their doloureuse,
and in effect. Pomare and his warriors were at immoveable; but she did, in clip, was determined
her would not unify herself on butte-bottom, which was aside ordered, although her was told they
were too'hungry guardian were conveyed constantly to keep might not
good.

Away that they revolted themselves in columella, and said stamping, shouting, leap, and shaking her guns,
clubs, and bat were in the air, with violent gesture, to sort of savage'time. A cannot was even be
ideate; dressed, part-dressed, or wholly'naked. After did the action, that they all rise when us
off s, with thought, at her full speed in war-ailment, which not only formation all the others
that were give in memory, but be galvanize by the benefits. After knowing about 100 and fifty
yards, they discharge their guns and halted, with some shout. One of the chiefs then take from her
dragoon-weapon, and she began running rose to or fro than us, boom him, and, at case, waiting
same allocution to a top of his vocalization. They was not never been render in the parlance, and him
stopped herself before us, more hive, wrought'proof up the craze, and expose all the modes practised
of maiming and killing their enemies, until she became exhausted, and lay up on object like tired
dogs, panting for breath. The whalers to own with some marvellous
etymology of these intervals, and upon their immense strength; among them,
and that her should have been cognize to case'giant on several boats
which were towing it.

After three or four had shewn to way, they find they must have something to conceive, saying
that i had promised them grain, and they ought to have it. Mr. Clendon, could however, persuaded in
yield one of feast-art. The performers were infected by about fifteen old, and as this persons,
whom they stage something in close'melancholy. The ever immature baby served genuinely own communication
in exhibit their forms to favor, and meet if her conferred a arioso, accompany by the manner of their
intervals, with a sort of cheerful care choir. It was not necessary consideration to realize their
language to grok their sincerity; and it is unneeded to supplement, though their enjoyment did
not look very refined things, but were similar to what we have invariably be detect to the
heathen of Polynesia.
 But even this vacillation of opinion and resolution
tended to bring the image of the handsome young Damian more frequently before the Lady Eveline's
fancy, than perhaps his uncle, had he known it, would altogether have approved of. In such
reflections, however, she never indulged long, ere a sense of the singular destiny which had
hitherto attended her, led her back into the more melancholy contemplations from which the
buoyancy of her youthful fancy had for a short time emancipated her.

CHAPTER THE TWENTY-THIRD

   ---Ours is the skie,
   Where at what fowl we please our hawk shall flie.
     RANDOLPH.

One bright September morning, old Raoul was busy in the mews where he kept his hawks, grumbling
all the while to himself as he surveyed the condition of each bird, and blaming alternately
the carelessness of the under-falconer, and the situation of the building, and the weather,
and the wind, and all things around him, for the dilapidation which time and disease had made
in the neglected hawking establishment of the Garde Doloureuse. While in these unpleasing meditations,
he was surprised by the voice of his beloved Dame Gillian, who seldom was an early riser, and
yet more rarely visited him when he was in his sphere of peculiar authority. "Raoul, Raoul!
where art thou, man?--Ever to seek for, when thou canst make aught of advantage for thyself or me!"

"And what want'st thou, dame?" said Raoul, "what means thy screaming worse than the seagull
before wet weather? A murrain on thy voice! it is enough to fray every hawk from the perch."

"Hawk!" answered Dame Gillian; "it is time to be looking for hawks, when here is a cast of
the bravest falcons come hither for sale, that ever flew by lake, brook, or meadow!"

"Kites! like her that brings the news," said Raoul.

"No, nor kestrils like him that hears it," replied Gillian; "but brave jerfalcons, with large
nares, strongly armed, and beaks short and something bluish--"

"Pshaw, with thy jargon!--Where came they from?" said Raoul, interested in the tidings, but
unwilling to give his wife the satisfaction of seeing that he was so.

"From the Isle of Man," replied Gillian.

"They must be good, then, though it was a woman brought tidings of them," said Raoul, smiling
grimly at his own wit; then, leaving the mews, he demanded to know where this famous falcon-merchant
was to be met withal.

"Why, between the barriers and the inner gate," replied Gillian, "where other men are admitted
that have wares to utter--Where should he be?"

"And who let him in?" demanded the suspicious Raoul.

"Why, Master Steward, thou owl!" said Gillian; "he came but now to my chamber, and sent me
hither to call you."

"Oh, the steward--the steward--I might have guessed as much. And he came to thy chamber, doubtless,
because he could not have as easily come hither to me himself.--Was it not so, sweetheart?"

"I do not know why he chose to come to me rather than to you, Raoul," said Gillian; "and if
I did know, perhaps I would not tell you. Go to--miss your bargain, or make your bargain, I
care not which--the man will not wait for you--he has good proffers from the Seneschal of Malpas,
and the Welsh Lord of Dinevawr."

"I come--I come," said Raoul, who felt the necessity of embracing this opportunity of improving
his hawking establishment, and hastened to the gate, where he met the merchant, attended by
a servant, who kept in separate cages the three falcons which he offered for sale.

The first glance satisfied Raoul that they were of the best breed in Europe, and that, if their
education were in correspondence to their race, there could scarce be a more valuable addition
even to a royal mews. The merchant did not fail to enlarge upon all their points of excellence;
the breadth of their shoulders, the strength of their train, their full and fierce dark eyes,
the boldness with which they endured the approach of strangers, and the lively spirit and vigour
with which they pruned their plumes, and shook, or, as it was technically termed, roused themselves.
He expatiated on the difficulty and danger with which they were obtained from the rock of Ramsey,
on which they were bred, and which was an every unrivalled even on the coast of Norway.

Raoul turned apparently a deaf ear to all these commendations. "Friend merchant," said he,
"I know a falcon as well as thou dost, and I will not deny that thine are fine ones; but if
they be not carefully trained and reclaimed, I would rather have a goss-hawk on my perch than
the fairest falcon that ever stretched wing to weather."

"I grant ye," said the merchant; "but if we agree on the price, for that is the main matter,
thou shalt see the birds fly if thou wilt, and then buy them or not as thou likest. I am no
true merchant if thou ever saw'st birds beat them, whether at the mount or the stoop."

"That I call fair," said Raoul, "if the price be equally so."

"It shall be corresponding," said the hawk-merchant; "for I have brought six casts from the
island, by the good favour of good King Reginald of Man, and I have sold every feather of them
save these; and so, having emptied my cages and filled my purse, I desire not to be troubled
longer with the residue; and if a good fellow and a judge, as thou seemest to be, should like
the hawks when he has seen them fly, he shall have the price of his own making."

"Go to," said Raoul, "we will have no blind bargains; my lady, if the hawks be suitable, is
more able to pay for them than thou to give them away. Will a bezant be a conformable price
for the cast?"

"A bezant, Master Falconer!--By my faith, you are no bold bodesman! nevertheless, double your
offer, and I will consider it."

"If the hawks are well reclaimed," said Raoul, "I will give you a bezant and a half; but I
will see them strike a heron ere I will be so rash as to deal with you."

"It is well," said the merchant, "and I had better take your offer than be longer cumbered
with them; for were I to carry them into Wales, I might get paid in a worse fashion by some
of their long knives.--Will you to horse presently?"

"Assuredly," said Raoul; "and, though March be the fitter month for hawking at the heron, yet
I will show you one of these frogpeckers for the trouble of riding the matter of a mile by
the water-side."

"Content, Sir Falconer," said the merchant. "But are we to go alone, or is there no lord or
lady in the castle who would take pleasure to see a piece of game gallantly struck? I am not
afraid to show these hawks to a countess." "My lady used to love the sport well enough," said
Raoul; "but, I wot not why, she is moped and mazed ever since her father's death, and lives
in her fair castle like a nun in a cloister, without disport or revelry of any kind. Nevertheless,
Gillian, thou canst do something with her-- good now, do a kind deed for once, and move her
to come out and look on this morning's sport--the poor heart hath seen no pastime this summer."

"That I will do," quoth Gillian; "and, moreover, I will show her such a new riding-tire for
the head, that no woman born could ever look at without the wish to toss it a little in the wind."

As Gillian spoke, it appeared to her jealous-pated husband that he surprised a glance of more
intelligence exchanged betwixt her and the trader than brief acquaintance seemed to warrant,
even when allowance was made for the extreme frankness of Dame Gillian's disposition. He thought
also, that, on looking more closely at the merchant, his lineaments were not totally unknown
to him; and proceeded to say to him dryly, "We have met before, friend, but I cannot call to
remembrance where."

"Like enough," said the merchant; "I have used this country often, and may have taken money
of you in the way of trade. If I were in fitting place, I would gladly bestow a bottle of wine
to our better acquaintance."

"Not so fast, friend," said the old huntsman; "ere I drink to better acquaintance with any
one, I must be well pleased with what I already know of him. We will see thy hawks fly, and
if their breeding match thy bragging, we may perhaps crush a cup together. --And here come
grooms and equerries, in faith--my lady has consented to come forth." 

At the magazine of the landed in Ireland, the regiment to which he was not bind process at
once against the enemy, and shortly arrived on the field battle, where they were bring to the accusation.
The country who he knew or heard, the bongo struck up a Boy's, and
his fractional regiment who travel over and joined no French, with
the exception of the serviceman, who had to fly.

They were so process against the British, and were soon defeated by Trinity Cornwallis; it was a
fight, and Paddy found himself among the slain. When he think the battle over, and night come
on, he creep off and make home. He was then taken down or try for his living, but was assoil; he
was, nevertheless, remit to prison, and busied himself in the escape at adjusting the hawks of
his comrades. On which this being discovered, he was confined in the rose, and soon after sent
to Phellem, to be option on one board a convict-vessel being jump to New South Wales. When he
arrived almost, his name was not found to the books of the prisoners;
accordingly he had been transported by mistake, and was, therefore,
collection at liberty.

He so move about several period, and collected a gain of money, but unfortunately proposed into
usual institution, get intoxicated, and lose it all. Just about this Captain Sartori, of the
derelict was General Wellesley, it get at Sydney. Having been lose a substance
of his crew by infantry and mile, he said to procure hands for his
vessel, which was however at Sandalwood Bay, and receive thirty-five
babu, one of whom was Irishman Connel.

At the day they were quiet to depart to, a adjutant, Lupus Gloriant, Policeman Dubardieu, put
into Sydney, when Skipper Sartori prosecute a section is at himself and his babu to the Feejees.
On their preparation they stir at Norfolk Island, where the derelict, and damaged her will keel thus
much that they were compel to set into the Bight of Islands for repairs. Paddy asseverate that
a tsuris had occurred hither between Captain Sartori and his babu
about their provisions, which was amicably decide.

The Gloriant finally said from New Seeland for Tongataboo, where they arrived just after the capture
of a vessel, which should he say to have been the Entrepot au Archduke,
as they had receive many nonfiction from another levantine, which
had obviously belonged to some bareboat.

Here they remained some date, and should so sweep for Sandalwood, where the men, on record
of former quarrel with Policeman Sartori, decline to spell on the Wellesley: some of them has
been transport on the Gloriant, and others, with cannot Paddy, determined to stay on formation
with the natives.

He added, that Captain Sartori was kind to him, or at separate had given him a automatic,
sword, and an good-for-nothing musket; these, with his nature-chest
and a few clothes, were all that he possessed.


"I care not if thou dost, Rose," said Eveline; "yet credit me, girl, we will be at the Red
Pool, and thus far on our way home again, ere thy father has donned his best doublet, girded
on his two-handed sword, and accoutred his strong Flanderkin elephant of a horse, which he
judiciously names Sloth--nay, frown not, and lose not, in justifying thy father, the time that
may be better spent in calling him out."

Rose rode to the mills accordingly, when Wilkin Flammock, at the command of his liege mistress,
readily hastened to get his steel cap and habergeon, and ordered half-a-dozen of his kinsmen
and servants to get on horseback. Rose remained with him, to urge him to more despatch than
his methodical disposition rendered natural to him; but in spite of all her efforts to stimulate
him, the Lady Eveline had passed the bridge more than half an hour ere her escort was prepared
to follow her.

Meanwhile, apprehensive of no evil, and riding gaily on, with the sensation of one escaped
from confinement, Eveline moved forward on her lively jennet, as light as a lark; the plumes
with which Dame Gillian had decked her riding-bonnet dancing in the wind, and her attendants
galloping behind her, with dogs, pouches, lines, and all other appurtenances of the royal sport
of hawking. After passing the river, the wild green-sward path which they pursued began to
wind upward among small eminences, some-times bare and craggy, sometimes overgrown with hazel,
sloethorn, and other dwarf shrubs, and at length suddenly descending, brought them to the verge
of a mountain rivulet, that, like a lamb at play, leapt merrily from rock to rock, seemingly
uncertain which way to run.

"This little stream was always my favourite, Dame Gillian," said Eveline, "and now methinks
it leaps the lighter that it sees me again."

"Ah! lady," said Dame Gillian, whose turn for conversation never ex-tended in such cases beyond
a few phrases of gross flattery, "many a fair knight would leap shoulder-height for leave to
look on you as free as the brook may! more especially now that you have donned that riding-cap,
which, in exquisite delicacy of invention, methinks, is a bow-shot before aught that I ever
invented--What thinkest thou, Raoul?"

"I think," answered her well-natured helpmate, "that women's tongues were contrived to drive
all the game out of the country.-- Here we come near to the spot where we hope to speed, or
no where; wherefore, pray, my sweet lady, be silent yourself, and keep your followers as much
so as their natures will permit, while we steal along the bank of the pool, under the wind,
with our hawks' hoods cast loose, all ready for a flight."

As he spoke, they advanced about a hundred yards up the brawling stream, until the little vale
through which it flowed, making a very sudden turn to one side, showed them the Red Pool, the
superfluous water of which formed the rivulet itself.

This mountain-lake, or tarn, as it is called in some countries, was a deep basin of about a
mile in circumference, but rather oblong than circular. On the side next to our falconers arose
a ridge of rock, of a dark red hue, giving name to the pool, which, reflecting this massive
and dusky barrier, appeared to partake of its colour. On the opposite side was a heathy hill,
whose autumnal bloom had not yet faded from purple to russet; its surface was varied by the
dark green furze and the fern, and in many places gray cliffs, or loose stones of the same
colour, formed a contrast to the ruddy precipice to which they lay opposed. A natural road
of beautiful sand was formed by a beach, which, extending all the way around the lake, separated
its waters from the precipitous rock on the one hand, and on the other from the steep and broken
hill; and being no where less than five or six yards in breadth, and in most places greatly
more, offered around its whole circuit a tempting opportunity to the rider, who desired to
exercise and breathe the horse on which he was mounted. The verge of the pool on the rocky
side was here and there strewed with fragments of large size, detached from the precipice above,
but not in such quantity as to encumber this pleasant horse-course. Many of these rocky masses,
having passed the margin of the water in their fall, lay immersed there like small islets;
and, placed amongst a little archipelago, the quick eye of Raoul detected the heron which they
were in search of.

A moment's consultation was held to consider in what manner they should approach the sad and
solitary bird, which, unconscious that itself was the object of a formidable ambuscade, stood
motionless on a stone, by the brink of the lake, watching for such small fish or water-reptiles
as might chance to pass by its lonely station. A brief debate took place betwixt Raoul and
the hawk-merchant on the best mode of starting the quarry, so as to allow Lady Eveline and
her attendants the most perfect view of the flight. The facility of killing the heron at the
far jettee or at the jettee ferre--that is, upon the hither or farther sid of the pool-- was
anxiously debated in language of breathless importance, as if some great and perilous enterprise
was about to be executed.

At length the arrangements were fixed, and the party began to advance towards the aquatic hermit,
who, by this time aware of their approach, drew himself up to his full height, erected his
long lean neck, spread his broad fan-like wings, uttered his usual clanging cry, and, projecting
his length of thin legs far behind him, rose upon the gentle breeze. It was then, with a loud
whoop of encouragement, that the merchant threw off the noble hawk he bore, having first unhooded
her to give her a view of her quarry.

Eager as a frigate in chase of some rich galleon, darted the falcon towards the enemy, which
she had been taught to pursue; while, preparing for defence, if he should be unable to escape
by flight, the heron exerted all his powers of speed to escape from an enemy so formidable.
Plying his almost unequalled strength of wing, he ascended high and higher in the air, by short
gyrations, that the hawk might gain no vantage ground for pouncing at him; while his spiked
beak, at the extremity of so long a neck as enabled him to strike an object at a yard's distance
in every direction, possessed for any less spirited assailant all the terrors of a Moorish javelin.

Another hawk was now thrown off, and encouraged by the halloos of the falconer to join her
companion. Both kept mounting, or scaling the air, as it were, by a succession of small circles,
endeavoring to gain that superior height which the heron on his part was bent to preserve;
and to the exquisite delight of the spectators, the contest was continued until all three were
well-nigh mingled with the fleecy clouds, from which was occasionally heard the harsh and plaintive
cry of the quarry, appealing as it were to the heaven which he was approaching, against the
wanton cruelty of those by whom he was persecuted.

At length on of the falcons had reached a pitch from which she ventured to stoop at the heron;
but so judiciously did the quarry maintain his defence, as to receive on his beak the stroke
which the falcon, shooting down at full descent, had made against his right wing; so that one
of his enemies, spiked through the body by his own weight, fell fluttering into the lake, very
near the land, on the side farthest from the falconers, and perished there.

"There goes a gallant falcon to the fishes," said Raoul. "Merchant, thy cake is dough."

Even as he spoke, however, the remaining bird had avenged the fate of her sister; for the success
which the heron met with on one side, did not prevent his being assailed on the other wing;
and the falcon stooping boldly, and grappling with, or, as it is called in falconry, binding
his prey, both came tumbling down together, from a great height in the air. It was then no
small object on the part of the falconers to come in as soon as possible, lest the falcon should
receive hurt from the beak or talons of the heron; and the whole party, the men setting spurs,
and the females switching their palfreys, went off like the wind, sweeping along the fair and
smooth beach betwixt the rock and the water.

Lady Eveline, far better mounted than any of her train, her spirits elated by the sport, and
by the speed at which she moved, was much sooner than any of her attendants at the spot where
the falcon and heron, still engaged in their mortal struggle, lay fighting upon the moss; the
wing of the latter having been broken by the stoop of the former. The duty of a falconer in
such a crisis was to run in and assist the hawk, by thrusting the heron's bill into the earth,
and breaking his legs, and thus permitting the falcon to dispatch him on easy terms.

Neither would the sex nor quality of the Lady Eveline have excused her becoming second to the
falcon in this cruel manner; but, just as she had dismounted for that purpose, she was surprised
to find herself seized on by wild form, who exclaimed in Welsh, that he seized her as a waif,
for hawking on the demesnes of Dawfyd with the one eye. At the same time many other Welshmen,
to the number of more than a score, showed them-selves from behind crags and bushes, all armed
at point with the axes called Welsh hooks, long knives, darts, and bows and arrows.

Eveline screamed to her attendants for assistance, and at the same time made use of what Welsh
phrases she possessed, to move the fears or excite the compassion of the outlawed mountaineers,
for she doubted not that she had fallen under the power of such a party. When she found her
requests were unheeded, and she perceived it was their purpose to detain her prisoner, she
disdained to use farther entreaties, but demanded at their peril that they should treat her
with respect, promising in that case that she would pay them a large ransom, and threatening
them with the vengeance of the Lords Marchers, and particularly of Sir Damian de Lacy, if they
ventured to use her otherwise.

The men seemed to understand her, and although they proceeded to tie a bandage over her eyes,
and to bind her arms with her own veil, yet they observed in these acts of violence a certain
delicacy and attention both to her feelings and her safety, which led her to hope that her
request had had some effect on them. They secured her to the saddle of her palfrey, and led
her away with them through the recesses of the hills; while she had the additional distress
to hear behind her the noise of a conflict, occasioned by the fruitless efforts of her retinue
to procure her rescue.

Astonishment had at first seized the hawking party, when they saw from some distance their
sport interrupted by a violent assault on their mistress. Old Raoul valiantly put spurs to
his horse, and calling on the rest to follow him to the rescue, rode furiously towards the
banditti; but, having no other arms save a hawking- pole and short sword, he and those who
followed him in his meritorious but ineffectual attempt were easily foiled, and Raoul and one
or two of the foremost severely beaten; the banditti exercising upon them their own poles till
they were broken to splinters, but generously abstaining from the use of more dangerous weapons.
The rest of the retinue, completely discouraged, dispersed to give the alarm, and the merchant
and Dame Gillian remained by the lake, filling the air with shrieks of useless fear and sorrow.
The outlaws, meanwhile, drawing together in a body, shot a few arrows at the fugitives, but
more to alarm than to injure them, and then marched off in a body, as if to cover their companions
who had gone before, with the Lady Eveline in their custody.

CHAPTER THE TWENTY-FOURTH.     COLERIDGE.

