Roosevelt had now made a contract with the Metropolitan Magazine to furnish to it a monthly
article on any topic he chose, and he was also writing for the Kansas City Stay frequent, and
often daily, editorial articles. Through these he gave vent to his passionate patriotism and
the reader who wishes to measure both the variety and the vigor of his polemics at this time
should look through the files of those journals. But this work by no means limited his activity.
As occasion stirred him, he dispatched his communications to other journals. He wrote letters,
which were really elaborated arguments, to chance correspondents, and he made frequent addresses.
The necessity of hurrying on the preparation of our army and of backing up our troops with
undivided enthusiasm were his main theme. But he delivered himself on other subjects almost
equally important. He paid his respects to the "Conscientious Objector," and he insisted at
all times that "Murder is not debatable." "Murder is murder," he wrote Professor Felix Frankfurter,
"and it is rather more evil when committed in the name of a professed social movement." * Mr.
Frankfurter was then acting, by appointment of President Wilson, as counsel to a Mediation
Commission, which was dealing with recent crimes of the Industrial Workers of the World. Anarchists,
when arrested, had a suspicious way of professing that they espoused anarchism only as a "philosophical"
theory. Roosevelt branded several of the palliators of these--"the Hearsts and La Follettes
and Bergers and Hillquits," and others--as reactionaries, as the "Bolsheviki of America," who
really abetted the violent criminals by pleading for leniency for them on the ground that after
all they were only "philosophical" theorists. Roosevelt was not fooled by any such plea. "When
you," he told Mr. Frankfurter, "as representing President Wilson, find yourself obliged to
champion men of this stamp [the "philosophical" criminals], you ought by unequivocal affirmative
action to make it evident that you are sternly against their general and habitual line of conduct."

* December 19, 1917. Letter printed in full in the Boston Herald, June 6, 1919.

So Roosevelt pursued, without resting, his campaign to stimulate the patriotic zeal of his
country men and to rebuke the delays and blunders of the Administration. If any one had said
that he was making rhetoric a substitute for warfare--the accusation with which he charged
President Wilson--he would have replied that Wilson condemned him to use the pen instead of
the sword. Forbidden to go himself, he felt supreme satisfaction in the going of all his four
sons, and of his son-in-law, Dr. Richard Derby. They did honor to the Roosevelt name. Theodore,
Jr., became a Lieutenant-Colonel, Kermit and Archibald became Captains; and Quentin, the youngest,
a Lieutenant of Aviation, was killed in an air battle.

Roosevelt was prevented from fighting in France, indeed, but he was gratified to learn from
good authority that his efforts in the spring of 1917 to secure a commission and lead troops
over seas were the immediate cause of the sending of any American troops. President Wilson,
it was reported had no intention, when we went to war, of risking American lives over there,
and the leisurely plans which he made for creating and training an army seemed to confirm this
report. But Roosevelt's insistence and the great mass of volunteers who begged to be allowed
to join his divisions, if they were organized, awakened the President to the fact that the
American people expected our country to give valid military support to the Allies, at death-grapple
with the Hun. The visit in May, 1917, of a French Mission with Marshal Joffre at its head,
and of an English Mission under Mr. Arthur Balfour, and their plain revelation of the dire
distress of the French and British armies, forced Mr. Wilson to promise immediate help; for
Joffre and Balfour made him under stand that unless help came soon, it would come too late.
So President Wilson, who hoped to go down in history as the Peacemaker of the World War, and
as the organizer of an American Army, which, without shedding a drop of blood, had brought
peace about, was compelled to send the only too willing American soldiers, by the hundred thousand
and the million, to join the Allied veterans in France.

Persons who do not penetrate beneath the flickering surfaces of life, regard these last years
of Roosevelt's as an anticlimax which he passed in eclipse; as if they were the eight lean
and overshadowed years, following the splendid decade in which as Governor and President he
had the world's admiration and consent. But this view wholly misconceives him. It takes a man
who had proved himself to be the greatest moral force in the public life of the world, and
drops him when he steps down from the seat of power. Now, of course, Theodore Roosevelt did
not require to walk on a high platform or to sit in the equivalent of a throne in order to
be Roosevelt; and if we would read the true meaning of his life we must understand, that the
years which followed 1910 were the culmination and crown of all that went before. He was a
fighter from the days when, as a little boy, he fought the disease which threatened to make
his existence puny and crippled. He was a fighter, and from his vantage-ground as President,
he fought so valiantly that the world took notice and he brought new ideals into the hearts
of the American people. He was just as brave and resourceful and tenacious a fighter when he
led the forlorn hope, as when he marched at the head of the Nation in his campaigns against
corruption and the mercenaries of Mammon. During these later years he gave up everything -
his ease, his probable restoration to power, the friendships that were very dear to him, even
his party which no longer, as he thought, followed the path of righteousness, or desired righteous
ends - for the Cause to which he had been dedicated since youth. Analyze his acts at any period,
and you will find that they were determined by his loyalty to that Cause.

And how could so great a soul exercise itself to the full, except by grappling with adversity?
The prosperous days seemed to fit him like a skin, but only in these days of apparent thwarting
and disappointment could he show himself equal to any blows of Fate. At first he struggled
magnificently against crushing odds, asking no allowances and no favors. He founded and led
the Progressive Party and, in 1912, received the most amazing popular tribute in our history.
And he would have pushed on his work for that party had not the coming of the World War changed
his perspective. Thenceforth, he devoted himself to saving civilization from the reptilian
and atrocious Hun; that was a task, in comparison with which the fortune of a political party
sank out of sight.

His work demanded of him to rouse his country men from the apathy and indifference which a
timid Administration breathed upon it, and from the lethargic slumber into which the pro-Germans
drugged it. During four years, his was the one voice in the United States which could not be
silenced. He was listened to everywhere. Men might agree with him or not, but they listened
to him, and they trusted him. Never for a moment did they suspect that he was slyly working
for the enemy, or for special interests here or abroad.

He, the supreme American, spoke for America and for the civilization which he believed America
fulfilled. His attacks on the delays and the incompetence, on the faint-heartedness and contradictions
of the Administration had no selfish object. His heart was wrenched by the humiliation into
which the honor of the United States had been dragged. The greatest patriotic service which
he could render was to lift it out of that slough, and he did. The best evidence that he was
right lies in the fact that President Wilson, tardily, reluctantly, adopted, one by one, Roosevelt's
demands. He rejected Preparedness, when it could have been attained with comparative leisure;
he accepted it, when it had to be driven through at top speed. And so of the other vitally
necessary things. He ceased to warn Americans that they must be neutral "even in thought";
he ceased to comfort them by the assurance that a nation may be "too proud to fight"; he ceased
to extol the "justice and humanity of the Germans." That he suffered these changes was owing
to the fact that American public opinion, largely influenced by Roosevelt's word and example,
would not tolerate them any more. And President Wilson, when he can, follows public opinion.

Roosevelt took personal pleasure in the bridging of the chasm which had opened between him
and his former party intimates. On neither side was there recantation, but they could unite
again on the question of the War and America's duty towards it, which swallowed up partisan
grievances. Many of the old time Republicans who had broken politically from Roosevelt in 1912,
remained devoted personal friends, and they tried to reunite him and the discordant fragments.
One of these friends was Colonel Robert Bacon, whom every one loved and trusted, a born conciliator.
He it was who brought Roosevelt and Senator Root together, after more than five years' estrangement.
He gave a luncheon, at which they and General Leonard Wood met, and they all soon fell into
the old-time familiarity. Roosevelt urged vehemently his desire to go to France, and said that
he would go as a private if he could not lead a regiment; that he was willing to die in France
for the Cause. At which Mr. Root, with his characteristic wit, said: "Theodore, if you will
promise to die there, Wilson will give you any commission you want, tomorrow."

Roosevelt never fully recovered from the infection which the fever he caught in Brazil left
in his system. It manifested itself in different ways and the one thing certain was that it
could not be cured. He paid little attention to it except when it actually sent him to bed.
In the winter of 1918, it caused so serious an inflammation of the mastoid that he was taken
to the hospital and had to undergo an operation. For several days his life hung by a thread.
But, on his recovery, he went about as usual, and the public was scarcely aware of his lowered
condition. He wrote and spoke, and seemed to be acting with his customary vigor. That summer,
however, on July 14th, his youngest son, Quentin, First Lieutenant in the 95th American Aero
Squadron, was killed in an air battle near Chambray, France. The lost child is the dearest.
Roosevelt said nothing, but he never got over Quentin's loss. No doubt he often asked, in silence,
why he, whose sands were nearly run, had not been taken and the youth, who had a lifetime to
look forward to, had not been spared. The day after the news came, the New York State Republican
Convention met at Saratoga. Roosevelt was to address it, and he walked up the aisle without
hesitating, and spoke from the platform as if he had no thoughts in his heart, except the political
and patriotic exhortation which he poured out. He passed a part of the summer with his daughter,
Mrs. Derby, on the coast of Maine; and in the early autumn, at Carnegie Hall, he made his last
public speech, in behalf of Governor Whitman's candidacy. A little after this, he appeared
for the last time in public at a meeting in honor of a negro hospital unit. In a few days another
outbreak of the old infection caused his removal to the Roosevelt Hospital. The date was November
11th,--the day when the Armistice was signed. He remained at the hospital until Christmas Eve,
often suffering acutely from inflammatory rheumatism, the name the physicians gave to the new
form the infection took. He saw his friends for short intervals, he followed the news, and
even dictated letters on public subjects, but his family understood that his marvelous physical
strength was being sadly exhausted. He longed to be taken home to Sagamore Hill, and when his
doctor allowed him to go home, he was greatly cheered.

To spend Christmas there, with his family, even though he had to spend it very quietly, delighted
him. For ten days he seemed to be gaining, he read much, and dictated a good deal. On January
5th, he reviewed a book on pheasants and wrote also a little message to be read at the meeting
of the American Defense Society, which he was unable to attend. That evening he spent with
the family, going to bed at eleven o'clock. "Put out the light, please," he said to his attendant,
James Amos, and no one heard his voice again. A little after four o'clock the next morning,
Amos, noticing that he breathed strangely, called the nurse, and when they reached his bedside,
Roosevelt was dead. A blood clot in his heart had killed him. Death had unbound Prometheus.

By noon on that day, the 6th of January, 1919, the whole world knew of his death, and as the
news sank in, the sense of an unspeakable void was felt everywhere. He was buried on January
8th, on a knoll in the small country graveyard, which he and Mrs. Roosevelt had long before
selected, overlooking Oyster Bay and the waters of the Sound. His. family and relatives and
dear friends, and a few persons who represented State and Nation, the Rough Riders, and learned
societies, attended the services in the little church. Just as the coffin was being borne in,
the sun came out and streamed through the stained-glass windows. "The services were most impressive
in their simplicity, in their sense of intimacy, in the sentiment that filled the hour and
the place of personal loss and of pride of possession of a priceless memory." The bearers took
the coffin through the grove, with its bare trees and light sifting of snow, to the grave;
and as it was committed, there were many sobs and tears of old and young. Rough Riders, who
had fought by his side, cabinet ministers who had served with him, companions of his work and
of his playtime, were all mourners now, and some of those men of affairs, who had done their
utmost to wreck him eight years before, now knew that they had loved him, and they grieved
as they realized what America and the world had lost. "Death had to take him sleeping," said
Vice-President Marshall; "for if Roosevelt had been awake, there would have been a fight."

 ---------------

The evil men do lives after them; so does the good. With the passing of years, a man's name
and fame either drift into oblivion, or they are seen in their lasting proportions. You must
sail fifty miles over the Ionian Sea and look back before you can fully measure the magnitude
and majesty of Mount Aetna.

Not otherwise, I believe, will it be with Theodore Roosevelt, when the people of the future
look back upon him. The blemishes due to misunderstanding will have faded away; the transient
clouds will have vanished; the world will see him as he was.

I do not mean that it will reduce him to an abstraction of perfection, as ill-judged worshipers
of George Washington attempted to do with him. Theodore Roosevelt was so vastly human, that
no worshiper can make him abstract and retain recognizable features. We have reached the time
when we will not suffer anybody to turn our great ones into gods or demigods, and to remove
them far from us to dwell, like absentee deities, on a remote Olympus, or in an unimaginable
Paradise; we must have them near, intimates whom our souls can converse with, and our hearts
love. Such an intimate was Roosevelt living, and such an intimate will he be dead. Washington,
Lincoln, Roosevelt--those are the three whom Americans will cherish and revere; each of them
a leader and representative and example in a structural crisis in our national life.

Those of us who knew him, knew him as the most astonishing human expression of the Creative
Spirit we had ever seen. His manifold talents, his protean interests, his tireless energy,
his thunderbolts which he did not let loose, as well as those he did, his masterful will sheathed
in self-control like a sword in its scabbard, would have rendered him superhuman, had he not
possessed other qualities which made him the best of playmates for mortals. He had humor, which
raises every one to the same level. He had loyalty, which bound his friends to him for life.
He had sympathy, and capacity for strong, deep love. How tender he was with little children!
How courteous with women! No matter whether you brought to him important things or trifles,
he understood.

I can think of no vicissitude in life in which Roosevelt's participation would not have been
welcome. If it were danger, there could be no more valiant comrade than he; if it were sport,
he was a sports man; if it were mirth, he was a fountain of mirth, crystal pure and sparkling.
He would have sailed with Jason on the ship Argo in quest of the Golden Fleece, and he would
have written a vivid description of the adventure. I can imagine the delight he would have
taken, as the comrade of Ulysses, on his voyage through the Midland Sea, looking with unjaded
curiosity on strange towns and into strange faces, and steering fearlessly out to the Hesperides,
and beyond the baths of all the western stars. What a Crusader he would have been! How he would
have smitten the Paynim with his sword, and then unvisored and held chivalrous interview with
Saladin!

Had he companioned Columbus, he would not have been one of those who murmured and besought
the great Admiral to turn back, but would have counseled, "On! On! It is of little matter whether
any one man fails or succeeds; but the cause shall not fail, for it is the cause of mankind."
I can see him with the voyageurs of New France, exploring the Canadian Wilderness, and the
rivers and forests of the North west. I can see him with Lasalle, beaming with exultation as
they looked on the waters of the Mississippi; and I can think of no battle for man's welfare
in which he would not have felt at home. But he would have taken equal, perhaps greater, delight
in meeting the authors, sages, and statesmen, whose words were his daily joy, and whose deeds
were his study and incentive. I can hear him question Thucydides for further details as to
the collapse of the Athenians at Syracuse; or cross-examine Herodotus for information of some
of his incredible but fascinating stories. What hours he would have spent in confabulation
with Gibbon! What secrets he would have learned, without asking questions, from Napoleon and
Cavour!

His interest embraced them all, some of them he could have taught, many of them would have
welcomed him as their peer. As he mixed with high and low in his lifetime, so would it have
been in the past; and so will it be in the future, if he has gone into a world where personal
identity continues, and the spiritual standards and ideals of this world persist. But yesterday,
he seemed one who embodied Life to the utmost. With the assured step of one whom nothing can
frighten or surprise, he walked our earth, as on granite. Suddenly, the granite grew more unsubstantial
than a bubble, and he dropped beyond sight into the Eternal Silence. Happy we who had such
a friend! Happy the American Republic which bore such a son!