THE BATTLE OF FRANKLIN, TENNESSEE

  THE BATTLE OF FRANKLIN, TENNESSEE

  November 30, 1864

  A statement of the erroneous claims made by
  General Schofield, and an exposition
  of the blunder which opened
  the battle

  BY
  CAPTAIN JOHN K. SHELLENBERGER

  One hundred, twenty-five
  copies privately printed for the author by
  THE ARTHUR H. CLARK COMPANY
  CLEVELAND: 1916

PREFACE

This monograph on the Battle of Franklin was read first at a meeting of the Minnesota Commandery
of the Loyal Legion, December 9, 1902. Written after an exhaustive investigation begun many
years before, the straightforward truth was told without fear or favor. The disgraceful and
costly blunder with which the Battle of Franklin opened should have been investigated by a
court of inquiry. The only action taken, however, was the deposing of General Wagner, the junior
in rank and the weakest in influence among the generals implicated, from the command of his
division, with the statement that the blunder was due to his disobedience of orders. With this
action the matter was hushed up.

I have no personal grudge against General Schofield, whose obstinate reliance on his ability
to foresee what General Hood would do, was the prime cause of the blunder. My feeling towards
him is the same that any honest student will experience when he becomes convinced that an undeserved
promotion was secured by dishonest methods. I began my investigation with no thought of him
but to secure evidence to disprove statements that I knew to be false, dishonoring the brigade
to which I belonged. These had been made by General Cox in The March to the Sea--Franklin and
Nashville, and by Captain Scofield, a member of Cox's staff, in a paper entitled "The Retreat
from Pulaski to Nashville," published in the second volume of Sketches of War History, issued
by the Ohio Commandery of the Loyal Legion.

"Misery loves company," and these two officers of the twenty-third corps, undoubtedly working
in collusion, sought to mitigate their misery by putting two brigades of the fourth corps into
the same class with their corps, whose battle line had proved unequal to the strain of the
two brigades passing over it when driven in from the front by the assaulting rebel army. That
part of Cox's line broke in a panic at the sight of what was coming and abandoned a good line
of breastworks before firing a single shot. Cox and Scofield wished to make it appear that
the two brigades also became panic stricken and that they never stopped running until they
were stopped by the river. That they were both capable of deliberately bearing false witness
needs no other proof than that furnished by themselves--by Cox in the contradictory statements
made in his two official reports of the Battle of Franklin, and by Scofield in his false map
of Spring Hill, which he claimed was drawn to scale, but which he had forged to uphold his
claim for extraordinary services rendered by the regiment to which he belonged in the Battle
of Spring Hill the day preceding the Battle of Franklin.

