"Oh, but we all do!" she protested eagerly. "I believe all actors love it more than they love
life itself. Don't think I mean those that never grew up out of their 'show-off' time in childhood.
Those don't count, in what I mean, any more than the 'show-girls' and heaven knows what not
that the newspapers call 'actresses'. Oh, Mr. Canby, I mean the people with the art and the
fire born in them: those who must come to the stage and who ought to and who do. It isn't because
we want to be 'looked at' that we go on the stage and starve to stay there! It's because we
want to make pictures--to make pictures of characters in plays for people in audiences. It's
like being a sculptor or painter; only we paint and model with ourselves--and we're different
from sculptors and painters because they do their work in quiet studios, while we do ours under
the tension of great crowds watching every stroke we make--and, oh, the exhilaration when they
show us we make the right stroke!"

"Bravo!" he said. "Bravo!"

"Isn't it the greatest of all the arts? Isn't it?" she went on with the same glowing eagerness.
"We feed our nerves to it, and our lives to it, and are glad! It makes us different from other
people. But what of that? Don't we give ourselves? Don't we live and die just to make these
pictures for the world? Oughtn't the world to be thankful for us? Oughtn't it? Oh, it is, Mr.
Canby; it is thankful for us; and I, for one, never forget that a Prime Minister of England
was proud to warm Davy Garrick's breeches at the grate for him!"

She clapped her hands together in a gesture of such spirit and fire that Canby could have thrown
his hat in the air and cheered, she had lifted him so clear of his timidity.

"Bravo!" he cried again. "Bravo!"

At that she blushed. "What a little goose I am!" she cried. "Playing the orator! Mr. Canby,
you mustn't mind--"

"I won't!"

"It's because I'm so happy," she explained--to his way of thinking, divinely. "I'm so happy
I just pour out everything. I want to sing every minute. You see, it seemed such a long while
that I was waiting for my chance. Some of us wait forever, Mr. Canby, and I was so afraid mine
might never come. If it hadn't come now it might never have come. If I'd missed this one, I
might never have had another. It frightens me to think of it--and I oughtn't to be thinking
of it! I ought to be spending all my time on my knees thanking God that old Mr. Packer got
it into his head that 'The Little Minister' was a play about the Baptists!"

"I don't see--"

"If he hadn't," she said, "I wouldn't be here!"

"God bless old Mr. Packer!"

"I hope you mean it, Mr. Canby." She blushed again, because there was no possible doubt that
he meant it. "It seems a miracle to me that I am here, and that my chance is here with me,
at last. It's twice as good a chance as it was yesterday, thanks to you. You've given me such
beautiful new things to do and such beautiful new things to say. How I'll work at it! After
rehearsal this afternoon I'll learn every word of it in the tunnel before I get to my station
in Brooklyn. That's funny, too, isn't it; the first time I've ever been to New York I go and
board over in Brooklyn! But it's a beautiful place to study, and by the time I get home I'll
know the lines and have all the rest of the time for the real work: trying to make myself into
a faraway picture of the adorable girl you had in your mind when you wrote it. You see--"

She checked herself again. "Oh! Oh!" she said, half-laughing, half-ashamed. "I've never talked
so much in my life! You see it seems to me that the whole world has just burst into bloom!"

She radiated a happiness that was almost tangible; it was a glow so real it seemed to warm
and light that dingy old passageway. Certainly it warmed and lighted the young man who stood
there with her. For him, too, the whole world was transfigured, and life just an orchard to
walk through in perpetual April morning.

The voice of Packer proclaimed: "Two o'clock, ladies and gentlemen! Rehearsal two o'clock this
afternoon!"

The next moment he looked into the passageway. "This afternoon's rehearsal, two o'clock, Miss--ahh--Malone.
Oh, Mr. Canby, Mr. Potter wants you to go to lunch with him and Mr. Tinker. He's waiting. This
way, Mr. Canby."

"In a moment," said the young playwright. "Miss Malone, you spoke of your going home to work
at making yourself into 'the adorable girl' I had in my mind when I wrote your part. It oughtn't"--he
faltered, growing red--"it oughtn't to take much--much work!"

And, breathless, he followed the genially waiting Packer.

X

"Your overcoat, Mr. Potter!" called that faithful servitor as Potter was going out through
the theatre with old Tinker and Canby. "You've forgotten your overcoat, sir."

"I don't want it."

"Yes sir; but it's a little raw to-day." He leaped down into the orchestra from the high stage,
striking his knee upon a chair with violence, but, pausing not an instant for that, came running
up the aisle carrying the overcoat. "You might want it after you get out into the air, Mr.
Potter. I'm sure Mr. Tinker or Mr. Canby won't mind taking charge of it for you until you feel
like putting it on."

"Lord! Don't make such a fuss, Packer. Put it on me--put it on me!"

He extended his arms behind him, and was enveloped solicitously and reverently in the garment.

"Confound him!" said Potter good-humouredly, as they came out into the lobby. "It is chilly;
he's usually right, the idiot!"

Turning from Broadway, at the corner, they went over to Fifth Avenue, where Potter's unconsciousness
of the people who recognized and stared at him was, as usual, one of the finest things he did,
either upon the stage or "off." Superb performance as it was, it went for nothing with Stewart
Canby, who did not even see it, for he walked entranced, not in a town, but through orchards
in bloom.

If Wanda Malone had remained with him, clear and insistent after yesterday's impersonal vision
of her at rehearsal, what was she now, when every tremulous lilt of the zither-string voice,
and every little gesture of the impulsive hands, and every eager change of the glowing face,
were fresh and living, in all their beautiful reality, but a matter of minutes past? He no
longer resisted the bewitchment; he wanted all of it. His companions and himself were as trees
walking, and when they had taken their seats at a table in the men's restaurant of a hotel
where he had never been, he was not roused from his rapturous apathy even by the conduct of
probably the most remarkable maitre d'hotel in the world.

"You don't git 'em!" said this personage briefly, when Potter had ordered chops and "oeufs
a la creole" and lettuce salad, from a card. "You got to eat partridge and asparagus tips salad!"

And he went away, leaving the terrible Potter resigned and unrebellious.

The partridge was undeniable when it came; a stuffed man would have eaten it. But Talbot Potter
and his two guests did little more than nibble it; they neither ate nor talked, and yet they
looked anything but unhappy. Detached from their surroundings, as they sat over their coffee,
they might have been taken to be three poetic gentlemen listening to a serenade.

After a long and apparently satisfactory silence, Talbot Potter looked at his watch, but not,
as it proved, to see if it was time to return to the theatre, his ensuing action being to send
a messenger to procure a fresh orchid to take the place of the one that had begun to droop
a little from his buttonhold. He attached the new one with an attentive gravity shared by his
companions.

"Good thing, a boutonniere," he explained. "Lighten it up a little. Rehearsal's dry work, usually.
Thinking about it last night. Why not lighten it up a little? Why shouldn't an actor dress
as well for a company of strangers at a reception? Ought to make it as cheerful as we can."

"Yes," said Tinker, nodding. "Something in that. I believe they work better. I must say I never
saw much better work than those people were doing this morning. It was a fine rehearsal."

"It's a fine company," Potter said warmly. "They're the best people I ever had. They're all
good, every one of them, and they're putting their hearts into this play. It's the kind of
work that makes me proud to be an actor. I am proud to be an actor! Is there anything better?"
He touched the young playwright on the arm, a gesture that hinted affection. "Stewart Canby,"
he said, "I want to tell you I think we're going to make a big thing out of this play. It's
going to be the best I've ever done. It's going to be beautiful!"

From the doorway into the lobby of the hotel there came a pretty sound of girlish voices whispering
and laughing excitedly, and, glancing that way, the three men beheld a group of peering nymphs
who fled, delighted.

"Ladies stop to rubber at Mr. Potter," explained the remarkable headwaiter over the star's
shoulder. "Mr. Potter, it's time you got marrit, anyhow. You git marrit, you don't git stared
at so much!" He paused not for a reply, but hastened away to countermand the order of another
customer.

"Married," said Potter musingly. "Well, there is such a thing as remaining a bachelor too long--even
for an actor."

"Widower, either," assented Mr. Tinker as from a gentle reverie. "A man's never too old to
get married."

His employer looked at him somewhat disapprovingly, but said nothing; and presently the three
rose, without vocal suggestion from any of them, and strolled thoughtfully back to the theatre,
pausing a moment by the way, while Tinker bought a white carnation for his buttonhole. There
was a good deal, he remarked absent-mindedly, in what Mr. Potter had said about lightening
up a rehearsal.

Probably there never was a more lightened-up rehearsal than that afternoon's. Potter's amiability
continued;--nay, it increased: he was cordial; he was angelic; he was exalted and unprecedented.
A stranger would have thought Packer the person in control; and the actors, losing their nervousness,
were allowed to display not only their energy but their intelligence. The stage became a cheery
workshop, where ambition flourished and kindness was the rule. For thus did the starry happiness
that glowed within the beatific bosom of the little "ingenue" make Arcady around her.

At four o'clock Talbot Potter stepped to the front of the stage and lifted his hand benevolently.
"That will do for to-day," he said, facing the company. "Ladies and gentlemen, I thank you.
I have never had a better rehearsal, and I think it is only your due to say you have pleased
me very much, indeed. I cannot tell you how much. I feel strongly assured of our success in
this play. Again I thank you. Ladies and gentlemen"--he waved his hand in dismissal--"till
to-morrow morning."

"By Joles!" old Carson Tinker muttered. "I never knew anything like it!"

"Oh--ah--Packer," called the star, as the actors moved toward the doors. "Packer, ask Miss--Malone
to wait a moment. I want--I'd like to go over a little business in the next act before tomorrow."

"Yes, Mr. Potter?" It was she who answered, turning eagerly to him.

"In a moment, Miss Malone." He spoke to the stage-manager in a low tone, and the latter came
down into the auditorium, where Canby and Tinker had remained in their seats.

"He says for you not to wait, gentlemen. There's nothing more to do this afternoon, and he
may be detained quite a time."

