The sympathy existing between these two brothers is so close and so refined that the feelings,
the impulses, the emotions of the one are instantly experienced by the other.  When one is
sick, the other is sick; when one feels pain, the other feels it; when one is angered, the
other's temper takes fire.  We have already seen with what happy facility they both fell in
love with the same girl.  Now Chang is bitterly opposed to all forms of intemperance, on principle;
but Eng is the reverse--for, while these men's feelings and emotions are so closely wedded,
their reasoning faculties are unfettered; their thoughts are free.  Chang belongs to the Good
Templars, and is a hard--working, enthusiastic supporter of all temperance reforms.  But, to
his bitter distress, every now and then Eng gets drunk, and, of course, that makes Chang drunk
too. This unfortunate thing has been a great sorrow to Chang, for it almost destroys his usefulness
in his favorite field of effort.  As sure as he is to head a great temperance procession Eng
ranges up alongside of him, prompt to the minute, and drunk as a lord; but yet no more dismally
and hopelessly drunk than his brother, who has not tasted a drop.  And so the two begin to
hoot and yell, and throw mud and bricks at the Good Templars; and, of course, they break up
the procession.  It would be manifestly wrong to punish Chang for what Eng does, and, therefore,
the Good Templars accept the untoward situation, and suffer in silence and sorrow.  They have
officially and deliberately examined into the matter, and find Chang blameless.  They have
taken the two brothers and filled Chang full of warm water and sugar and Eng full of whisky,
and in twenty-five minutes it was not possible to tell which was the drunkest. Both were as
drunk as loons--and on hot whisky punches, by the smell of their breath.  Yet all the while
Chang's moral principles were unsullied, his conscience clear; and so all just men were forced
to confess that he was not morally, but only physically, drunk.  By every right and by every
moral evidence the man was strictly sober; and, therefore, it caused his friends all the more
anguish to see him shake hands with the pump and try to wind his watch with his night-key.

There is a moral in these solemn warnings--or, at least, a warning in these solemn morals;
one or the other.  No matter, it is somehow.  Let us heed it; let us profit by it.

I could say more of an instructive nature about these interesting beings, but let what I have
written suffice.

Having forgotten to mention it sooner, I will remark in conclusion that the ages of the Siamese
Twins are respectively fifty-one and fifty-three years.

SPEECH AT THE SCOTTISH BANQUET IN LONDON--[Written about 1872.]

On the anniversary festival of the Scottish Corporation of London on Monday evening, in response
to the toast of "The Ladies," MARK TWAIN replied.  [Much laughter.]  Who does not sorrow for
the loss of Sappho, the sweet singer of Israel?  The place had long been given up to dust and
cobwebs, to solitude and silence. I seemed groping among the tombs and invading the privacy
of the dead, that first night I climbed up to my quarters.  For the first time in my life a
superstitious dread came over me; and as I turned a dark angle of the stairway and an invisible
cobweb swung its slazy woof in my face and clung there, I shuddered as one who had encountered
a phantom.

I was glad enough when I reached my room and locked out the mold and the darkness.  A cheery
fire was burning in the grate, and I sat down before it with a comforting sense of relief.
For two hours I sat there, thinking of bygone times; recalling old scenes, and summoning half-forgotten
faces out of the mists of the past; listening, in fancy, to voices that long ago grew silent
for all time, and to once familiar songs that nobody sings now.  And as my reverie softened
down to a sadder and sadder pathos, the shrieking of the winds outside softened to a wail,
the angry beating of the rain against the panes diminished to a tranquil patter, and one by
one the noises in the street subsided, until the hurrying footsteps of the last belated straggler
died away in the distance and left no sound behind.

The fire had burned low.  A sense of loneliness crept over me.  I arose and undressed, moving
on tiptoe about the room, doing stealthily what I had to do, as if I were environed by sleeping
enemies whose slumbers it would be fatal to break.  I covered up in bed, and lay listening
to the rain and wind and the faint creaking of distant shutters, till they lulled me to sleep.

I slept profoundly, but how long I do not know.  All at once I found myself awake, and filled
with a shuddering expectancy.  All was still. All but my own heart--I could hear it beat. 
Presently the bedclothes began to slip away slowly toward the foot of the bed, as if some one
were pulling them!  I could not stir; I could not speak.  Still the blankets slipped deliberately
away, till my breast was uncovered.  Then with a great effort I seized them and drew them over
my head.  I waited, listened, waited.  Once more that steady pull began, and once more I lay
torpid a century of dragging seconds till my breast was naked again.  At last I roused my energies
and snatched the covers back to their place and held them with a strong grip.  I waited.  By
and by I felt a faint tug, and took a fresh grip.  The tug strengthened to a steady strain--it
grew stronger and stronger.  My hold parted, and for the third time the blankets slid away.
I groaned.  An answering groan came from the foot of the bed!  Beaded drops of sweat stood
upon my forehead.  I was more dead than alive.  Presently I heard a heavy footstep in my room--the
step of an elephant, it seemed to me--it was not like anything human.  But it was moving from
me--there was relief in that.  I heard it approach the door --pass out without moving bolt
or lock--and wander away among the dismal corridors, straining the floors and joists till they
creaked again as it passed--and then silence reigned once more.

When my excitement had calmed, I said to myself, "This is a dream--simply a hideous dream."
And so I lay thinking it over until I convinced myself that it was a dream, and then a comforting
laugh relaxed my lips and I was happy again.  I got up and struck a light; and when I found
that the locks and bolts were just as I had left them, another soothing laugh welled in my
heart and rippled from my lips.  I took my pipe and lit it, and was just sitting down before
the fire, when-down went the pipe out of my nerveless fingers, the blood forsook my cheeks,
and my placid breathing was cut short with a gasp!  In the ashes on the hearth, side by side
with my own bare footprint, was another, so vast that in comparison mine was but an infant's!
Then I had had a visitor, and the elephant tread was explained.

I put out the light and returned to bed, palsied with fear.  I lay a long time, peering into
the darkness, and listening.--Then I heard a grating noise overhead, like the dragging of a
heavy body across the floor; then the throwing down of the body, and the shaking of my windows
in response to the concussion.  In distant parts of the building I heard the muffled slamming
of doors.  I heard, at intervals, stealthy footsteps creeping in and out among the corridors,
and up and down the stairs.  Sometimes these noises approached my door, hesitated, and went
away again.  I heard the clanking of chains faintly, in remote passages, and listened while
the clanking grew nearer--while it wearily climbed the stairways, marking each move by the
loose surplus of chain that fell with an accented rattle upon each succeeding step as the goblin
that bore it advanced.  I heard muttered sentences; half-uttered screams that seemed smothered
violently; and the swish of invisible garments, the rush of invisible wings.  Then I became
conscious that my chamber was invaded--that I was not alone. I heard sighs and breathings about
my bed, and mysterious whisperings. Three little spheres of soft phosphorescent light appeared
on the ceiling directly over my head, clung and glowed there a moment, and then dropped --two
of them upon my face and one upon the pillow.  They, spattered, liquidly, and felt warm.  Intuition
told me they had--turned to gouts of blood as they fell--I needed no light to satisfy myself
of that.  Then I saw pallid faces, dimly luminous, and white uplifted hands, floating bodiless
in the air--floating a moment and then disappearing. The whispering ceased, and the voices
and the sounds, anal a solemn stillness followed.  I waited and listened.  I felt that I must
have light or die.  I was weak with fear.  I slowly raised myself toward a sitting posture,
and my face came in contact with a clammy hand! All strength went from me apparently, and I
fell back like a stricken invalid.  Then I heard the rustle of a garment it seemed to pass
to the door and go out.

When everything was still once more, I crept out of bed, sick and feeble, and lit the gas with
a hand that trembled as if it were aged with a hundred years.  The light brought some little
cheer to my spirits.  I sat down and fell into a dreamy contemplation of that great footprint
in the ashes.  By and by its outlines began to waver and grow dim.  I glanced up and the broad
gas-flame was slowly wilting away.  In the same moment I heard that elephantine tread again.
I noted its approach, nearer and nearer, along the musty halls, and dimmer and dimmer the light
waned. The tread reached my very door and paused--the light had dwindled to a sickly blue,
and all things about me lay in a spectral twilight.  The door did not open, and yet I felt
a faint gust of air fan my cheek, and presently was conscious of a huge, cloudy presence before
me.  I watched it with fascinated eyes.  A pale glow stole over the Thing; gradually its cloudy
folds took shape--an arm appeared, then legs, then a body, and last a great sad face looked
out of the vapor.  Stripped of its filmy housings, naked, muscular and comely, the majestic
Cardiff Giant loomed above me!

All my misery vanished--for a child might know that no harm could come with that benignant
countenance.  My cheerful spirits returned at once, and in sympathy with them the gas flamed
up brightly again.  Never a lonely outcast was so glad to welcome company as I was to greet
the friendly giant.  I said:

"Why, is it nobody but you?  Do you know, I have been scared to death for the last two or three
hours?  I am most honestly glad to see you.  I wish I had a chair--Here, here, don't try to
sit down in that thing--"

But it was too late.  He was in it before I could stop him and down he went--I never saw a
chair shivered so in my life.

"Stop, stop, you'll ruin ev--"

Too late again.  There was another crash, and another chair was resolved into its original
elements.

"Confound it, haven't you got any judgment at' all?  Do you want to ruin all the furniture
on the place?  Here, here, you petrified fool--"

But it was no use.  Before I could arrest him he had sat down on the bed, and it was a melancholy
ruin.

"Now what sort of a way is that to do?  First you come lumbering about the place bringing a
legion of vagabond goblins along with you to worry me to death, and then when I overlook an
indelicacy of costume which would not be tolerated anywhere by cultivated people except in
a respectable theater, and not even there if the nudity were of your sex, you repay me by wrecking
all the furniture you can find to sit down on. And why will you?  You damage yourself as much
as you do me.  You have broken off the end of your spinal column, and littered up the floor
with chips of your hams till the place looks like a marble yard.  You ought to be ashamed of
yourself--you are big enough to know better."

"Well, I will not break any more furniture.  But what am I to do?  I have not had a chance
to sit down for a century."  And the tears came into his eyes.

"Poor devil," I said, "I should not have been so harsh with you.  And you are an orphan, too,
no doubt.  But sit down on the floor here--nothing else can stand your weight--and besides,
we cannot be sociable with you away up there above me; I want you down where I can perch on
this high counting-house stool and gossip with you face to face."  So he sat down on the floor,
and lit a pipe which I gave him, threw one of my red blankets over his shoulders, inverted
my sitz-bath on his head, helmet fashion, and made himself picturesque and comfortable.  Then
he crossed his ankles, while I renewed the fire, and exposed the flat, honeycombed bottoms
of his prodigious feet to the grateful warmth.

"What is the matter with the bottom of your feet and the back of your legs, that they are gouged
up so?"

"Infernal chilblains--I caught them clear up to the back of my head, roosting out there under
Newell's farm.  But I love the place; I love it as one loves his old home.  There is no peace
for me like the peace I feel when I am there."

We talked along for half an hour, and then I noticed that he looked tired, and spoke of it.

"Tired?" he said.  "Well, I should think so.  And now I will tell you all about it, since you
have treated me so well.  I am the spirit of the Petrified Man that lies across the street
there in the museum. I am the ghost of the Cardiff Giant.  I can have no rest, no peace, till
they have given that poor body burial again.  Now what was the most natural thing for me to
do, to make men satisfy this wish?  Terrify them into it! haunt the place where the body lay!
So I haunted the museum night after night.  I even got other spirits to help me.  But it did
no good, for nobody ever came to the museum at midnight.  Then it occurred to me to come over
the way and haunt this place a little.  I felt that if I ever got a hearing I must succeed,
for I had the most efficient company that perdition could furnish.  Night after night we have
shivered around through these mildewed halls, dragging chains, groaning, whispering, tramping
up and down stairs, till, to tell you the truth, I am almost worn out.  But when I saw a light
in your room to-night I roused my energies again and went at it with a deal of the old freshness.
But I am tired out--entirely fagged out.  Give me, I beseech you, give me some hope!"  I lit
off my perch in a burst of excitement, and exclaimed:

"This transcends everything! everything that ever did occur!  Why you poor blundering old fossil,
you have had all your trouble for nothing --you have been haunting a plaster cast of yourself--the
real Cardiff Giant is in Albany!--[A fact.  The original fraud was ingeniously and fraudfully
duplicated, and exhibited in New York as the "only genuine" Cardiff Giant (to the unspeakable
disgust of the owners of the real colossus) at the very same time that the latter was drawing
crowds at a museum is Albany,]--Confound it, don't you know your own remains?"

I never saw such an eloquent look of shame, of pitiable humiliation, overspread a countenance
before.

The Petrified Man rose slowly to his feet, and said:

"Honestly, is that true?"

"As true as I am sitting here."

He took the pipe from his mouth and laid it on the mantel, then stood irresolute a moment (unconsciously,
from old habit, thrusting his hands where his pantaloons pockets should have been, and meditatively
dropping his chin on his breast); and finally said:

"Well-I never felt so absurd before.  The Petrified Man has sold everybody else, and now the
mean fraud has ended by selling its own ghost!  My son, if there is any charity left in your
heart for a poor friendless phantom like me, don't let this get out.  Think how you would feel
if you had made such an ass of yourself."

I heard his stately tramp die away, step by step down the stairs and out into the deserted
street, and felt sorry that he was gone, poor fellow --and sorrier still that he had carried
off my red blanket and my bath-tub.

THE CAPITOLINE VENUS

CHAPTER I

[Scene-An Artist's Studio in Rome.]

"Oh, George, I do love you!"

"Bless your dear heart, Mary, I know that--why is your father so obdurate?"

"George, he means well, but art is folly to him--he only understands groceries.  He thinks
you would starve me."

"Confound his wisdom--it savors of inspiration.  Why am I not a money-making bowelless grocer,
instead of a divinely gifted sculptor with nothing to eat?"

"Do not despond, Georgy, dear--all his prejudices will fade away as soon as you shall have
acquired fifty thousand dol--"

"Fifty thousand demons!  Child, I am in arrears for my board!"

CHAPTER II

[Scene-A Dwelling in Rome.]

"My dear sir, it is useless to talk.  I haven't anything against you, but I can't let my daughter
marry a hash of love, art, and starvation--I believe you have nothing else to offer."

"Sir, I am poor, I grant you.  But is fame nothing?  The Hon. Bellamy Foodle of Arkansas says
that my new statue of America, is a clever piece of sculpture, and he is satisfied that my
name will one day be famous."

"Bosh!  What does that Arkansas ass know about it?  Fame's nothing--the market price of your
marble scarecrow is the thing to look at.  It took you six months to chisel it, and you can't
sell it for a hundred dollars. No, sir!  Show me fifty thousand dollars and you can have my
daughter --otherwise she marries young Simper.  You have just six months to raise the money
in.  Good morning, sir."

"Alas!  Woe is me!"

CHAPTER III

[ Scene-The Studio.]

"Oh, John, friend of my boyhood, I am the unhappiest of men."

"You're a simpleton!"

"I have nothing left to love but my poor statue of America--and see, even she has no sympathy
for me in her cold marble countenance--so beautiful and so heartless!"

"You're a dummy!"

"Oh, John!"

Oh, fudge!  Didn't you say you had six months to raise the money in?"

"Don't deride my agony, John.  If I had six centuries what good would it do?  How could it
help a poor wretch without name, capital, or friends?"

"Idiot!  Coward!  Baby!  Six months to raise the money in--and five will do!"

"Are you insane?"

"Six months--an abundance.  Leave it to me.  I'll raise it."

"What do you mean, John?  How on earth can you raise such a monstrous sum for me?"

"Will you let that be my business, and not meddle?  Will you leave the thing in my hands? 
Will you swear to submit to whatever I do?  Will you pledge me to find no fault with my actions?"

"I am dizzy--bewildered--but I swear."

John took up a hammer and deliberately smashed the nose of America!  He made another pass and
two of her fingers fell to the floor--another, and part of an ear came away--another, and a
row of toes was mangled and dismembered--another, and the left leg, from the knee down, lay
a fragmentary ruin!

John put on his hat and departed.

George gazed speechless upon the battered and grotesque nightmare before him for the space
of thirty seconds, and then wilted to the floor and went into convulsions.

John returned presently with a carriage, got the broken-hearted artist and the broken-legged
statue aboard, and drove off, whistling low and tranquilly.

He left the artist at his lodgings, and drove off and disappeared down the Via Quirinalis with
the statue.

CHAPTER IV

[Scene--The Studio.]

"The six months will be up at two o'clock to-day!  Oh, agony!  My life is blighted.  I would
that I were dead.  I had no supper yesterday.  I have had no breakfast to-day.  I dare not
enter an eating-house.  And hungry? --don't mention it!  My bootmaker duns me to death--my
tailor duns me --my landlord haunts me.  I am miserable.  I haven't seen John since that awful
day.  She smiles on me tenderly when we meet in the great thoroughfares, but her old flint
of a father makes her look in the other direction in short order.  Now who is knocking at that
door?  Who is come to persecute me?  That malignant villain the bootmaker, I'll warrant. Come in!"

"Ah, happiness attend your highness--Heaven be propitious to your grace! I have brought my
lord's new boots--ah, say nothing about the pay, there is no hurry, none in the world.  Shall
be proud if my noble lord will continue to honor me with his custom--ah, adieu!"

"Brought the boots himself!  Don't wait his pay!  Takes his leave with a bow and a scrape fit
to honor majesty withal!  Desires a continuance of my custom!  Is the world coming to an end?
Of all the--come in!"

"Pardon, signore, but I have brought your new suit of clothes for--"

"Come in!"

"A thousand pardons for this intrusion, your worship.  But I have prepared the beautiful suite
of rooms below for you--this wretched den is but ill suited to--"

"Come in!"

"I have called to say that your credit at our bank, some time since unfortunately interrupted,
is entirely and most satisfactorily restored, and we shall be most happy if you will draw upon
us for any--"

"COME IN!"

"My noble boy, she is yours!  She'll be here in a moment!  Take her --marry her--love her--be
happy!--God bless you both!  Hip, hip, hur--"

"COME IN!!!!!"

"Oh, George, my own darling, we are saved!"

"Oh, Mary, my own darling, we are saved--but I'll swear I don't know why nor how!"

CHAPTER V

[Scene-A Roman Cafe.]

One of a group of American gentlemen reads and translates from the weekly edition of 'Il Slangwhanger
di Roma' as follows:

WONDERFUL DISCOVERY--Some six months ago Signor John Smitthe, an American gentleman now some
years a resident of Rome, purchased for a trifle a small piece of ground in the Campagna, just
beyond the tomb of the Scipio family, from the owner, a bankrupt relative of the Princess Borghese.
Mr. Smitthe afterward went to the Minister of the Public Records and had the piece of ground
transferred to a poor American artist named George Arnold, explaining that he did it as payment
and satisfaction for pecuniary damage accidentally done by him long since upon property belonging
to Signor Arnold, and further observed that he would make additional satisfaction by improving
the ground for Signor A., at his own charge and cost.  Four weeks ago, while making some necessary
excavations upon the property, Signor Smitthe unearthed the most remarkable ancient statue
that has ever bees added to the opulent art treasures of Rome. It was an exquisite figure of
a woman, and though sadly stained by the soil and the mold of ages, no eye can look unmoved
upon its ravishing beauty.  The nose, the left leg from the knee down, an ear, and also the
toes of the right foot and two fingers of one of the hands were gone, but otherwise the noble
figure was in a remarkable state of preservation. The government at once took military possession
of the statue, and appointed a commission of art-critics, antiquaries, and cardinal princes
of the church to assess its value and determine the remuneration that must go to the owner
of the ground in which it was found.  The whole affair was kept a profound secret until last
night.  In the mean time the commission sat with closed doors and deliberated.  Last night
they decided unanimously that the statue is a Venus, and the work of some unknown but sublimely
gifted artist of the third century before Christ. They consider it the most faultless work
of art the world has any knowledge of.

At midnight they held a final conference and, decided that the Venus was worth the enormous
sum of ten million francs!  In accordance with Roman law and Roman usage, the government being
half-owner in all works of art found in the Campagna, the State has naught to do but pay five
million francs to Mr.  Arnold and take permanent possession of the beautiful statue.  This
morning the Venus will be removed to the Capitol, there to remain, and at noon the commission
will wait upon Signor Arnold with His Holiness the Pope's order upon the Treasury for the princely
sum of five million francs is gold!

Chorus of Voices.--"Luck!  It's no name for it!"

Another Voice.--"Gentlemen, I propose that we immediately form an American joint-stock company
for the purchase of lands and excavations of statues here, with proper connections in Wall
Street to bull and bear the stock."

All.--"Agreed."

CHAPTER VI

[Scene--The Roman Capitol Ten Years Later.]

"Dearest Mary, this is the most celebrated statue in the world.  This is the renowned 'Capitoline
Venus' you've heard so much about.  Here she is with her little blemishes 'restored' (that
is, patched) by the most noted Roman artists--and the mere fact that they did the humble patching
of so noble a creation will make their names illustrious while the world stands.  How strange
it seems this place!  The day before I last stood here, ten happy years ago, I wasn't a rich
man bless your soul, I hadn't a cent.  And yet I had a good deal to do with making Rome mistress
of this grandest work of ancient art the world contains."

"The worshiped, the illustrious Capitoline Venus--and what a sum she is valued at!  Ten millions
of francs!"

"Yes--now she is."

"And oh, Georgy, how divinely beautiful she is!"

"Ah, yes but nothing to what she was before that blessed John Smith broke her leg and battered
her nose.  Ingenious Smith!--gifted Smith!--noble Smith!  Author of all our bliss!  Hark! 
Do you know what that wheeze means?  Mary, that cub has got the whooping-cough.  Will you never
learn to take care of the children!"

THE END

The Capitoline Venus is still in the Capitol at Rome, and is still the most charming and most
illustrious work of ancient art the world can boast of.  But if ever it shall be your fortune
to stand before it and go into the customary ecstasies over it, don't permit this true and
secret history of its origin to mar your bliss--and when you read about a gigantic Petrified
man being dug up near Syracuse, in the State of New York, or near any other place, keep your
own counsel--and if the Barnum that buried him there offers to sell to you at an enormous sum,
don't you buy.  Send him to the Pope!

JOHN CHINAMAN IN NEW YORK

As I passed along by one of those monster American tea stores in New York, I found a Chinaman
sitting before it acting in the capacity of a sign.  Everybody that passed by gave him a steady
stare as long as their heads would twist over their shoulders without dislocating their necks,
and a group had stopped to stare deliberately.

Is it not a shame that we, who prate so much about civilization and humanity, are content to
degrade a fellow-being to such an office as this?  Is it not time for reflection when we find
ourselves willing to see in such a being matter for frivolous curiosity instead of regret and
grave reflection?  Here was a poor creature whom hard fortune had exiled from his natural home
beyond the seas, and whose troubles ought to have touched these idle strangers that thronged
about him; but did it? Apparently not.  Men calling themselves the superior race, the race
of culture and of gentle blood, scanned his quaint Chinese hat, with peaked roof and ball on
top, and his long queue dangling down his back; his short silken blouse, curiously frogged
and figured (and, like the rest of his raiment, rusty, dilapidated, and awkwardly put on);
his blue cotton, tight-legged pants, tied close around the ankles; and his clumsy blunt-toed
shoes with thick cork soles; and having so scanned him from head to foot, cracked some unseemly
joke about his outlandish attire or his melancholy face, and passed on.  In my heart I pitied
the friendless Mongol.  I wondered what was passing behind his sad face, and what distant scene
his vacant eye was dreaming of.  Were his thoughts with his heart, ten thousand miles away,
beyond the billowy wastes of the Pacific? among the ricefields and the plumy palms of China?
under the shadows of remembered mountain peaks, or in groves of bloomy shrubs and strange forest
trees unknown to climes like ours?  And now and then, rippling among his visions and his dreams,
did he hear familiar laughter and half-forgotten voices, and did he catch fitful glimpses of
the friendly faces of a bygone time?  A cruel fate it is, I said, that is befallen this bronzed
wanderer.  In order that the group of idlers might be touched at least by the words of the
poor fellow, since the appeal of his pauper dress and his dreary exile was lost upon them,
I touched him on the shoulder and said:

"Cheer up--don't be downhearted.  It is not America that treats you in this way, it is merely
one citizen, whose greed of gain has eaten the humanity out of his heart.  America has a broader
hospitality for the exiled and oppressed.  America and Americans are always ready to help the
unfortunate.  Money shall be raised--you shall go back to China you shall see your friends
again.  What wages do they pay you here?"

"Divil a cint but four dollars a week and find meself; but it's aisy, barrin' the troublesome
furrin clothes that's so expinsive."

The exile remains at his post.  The New York tea merchants who need picturesque signs are not
likely to run out of Chinamen.  Who criticize the Indian campaigns?

THE PETRIFIED MAN

Now, to show how really hard it is to foist a moral or a truth upon an unsuspecting public
through a burlesque without entirely and absurdly missing one's mark, I will here set down
two experiences of my own in this thing.  In the fall of 1862, in Nevada and California, the
people got to running wild about extraordinary petrifactions and other natural marvels.  One
could scarcely pick up a paper without finding in it one or two glorified discoveries of this
kind.  The mania was becoming a little ridiculous.  I was a brand-new local editor in Virginia
City, and I felt called upon to destroy this growing evil; we all have our benignant, fatherly
moods at one time or another, I suppose.  I chose to kill the petrifaction mania with a delicate,
a very delicate satire.  But maybe it was altogether too delicate, for nobody ever perceived
the satire part of it at all.  I put my scheme in the shape of the discovery of a remarkably
petrified man.

I had had a temporary falling out with Mr.----, the new coroner and justice of the peace of
Humboldt, and thought I might as well touch him up a little at the same time and make him ridiculous,
and thus combine pleasure with business.  So I told, in patient, belief-compelling detail,
all about the finding of a petrified-man at Gravelly Ford (exactly a hundred and twenty miles,
over a breakneck mountain trail from where ---- lived); how all the savants of the immediate
neighborhood had been to examine it (it was notorious that there was not a living creature
within fifty miles of there, except a few starving Indians; some crippled grasshoppers, and
four or five buzzards out of meat and too feeble to get away); how those savants all pronounced
the petrified man to have been in a state of complete petrifaction for over ten generations;
and then, with a seriousness that I ought to have been ashamed to assume, I stated that as
soon as Mr.----heard the news he summoned a jury, mounted his mule, and posted off, with noble
reverence for official duty, on that awful five days' journey, through alkali, sage brush,
peril of body, and imminent starvation, to hold an inquest on this man that had been dead and
turned to everlasting stone for more than three hundred years! And then, my hand being "in,"
so to speak, I went on, with the same unflinching gravity, to state that the jury returned
a verdict that deceased came to his death from protracted exposure.  This only moved me to
higher flights of imagination, and I said that the jury, with that charity so characteristic
of pioneers, then dug a grave, and were about to give the petrified man Christian burial, when
they found that for ages a limestone sediment had been trickling down the face of the stone
against which he was sitting, and this stuff had run under him and cemented him fast to the
"bed-rock"; that the jury (they were all silver-miners) canvassed the difficulty a moment,
and then got out their powder and fuse, and proceeded to drill a hole under him, in order to
blast him from his position, when Mr.----, "with that delicacy so characteristic of him, forbade
them, observing that it would be little less than sacrilege to do such a thing."

From beginning to end the "Petrified Man" squib was a string of roaring absurdities, albeit
they were told with an unfair pretense of truth that even imposed upon me to some extent, and
I was in some danger of believing in my own fraud.  But I really had no desire to deceive anybody,
and no expectation of doing it.  I depended on the way the petrified man was sitting to explain
to the public that he was a swindle. Yet I purposely mixed that up with other things, hoping
to make it obscure--and I did.  I would describe the position of one foot, and then say his
right thumb was against the side of his nose; then talk about his other foot, and presently
come back and say the fingers of his right hand were spread apart; then talk about the back
of his head a little, and return and say the left thumb was hooked into the right little finger;
then ramble off about something else, and by and by drift back again and remark that the fingers
of the left hand were spread like those of the right.  But I was too ingenious.  I mixed it
up rather too much; and so all that description of the attitude, as a key to the humbuggery
of the article, was entirely lost, for nobody but me ever discovered and comprehended the peculiar
and suggestive position of the petrified man's hands.

As a satire on the petrifaction mania, or anything else, my petrified Man was a disheartening
failure; for everybody received him in innocent good faith, and I was stunned to see the creature
I had begotten to pull down the wonder-business with, and bring derision upon it, calmly exalted
to the grand chief place in the list of the genuine marvels our Nevada had produced.  I was
so disappointed at the curious miscarriage of my scheme, that at first I was angry, and did
not like to think about it; but by and by, when the exchanges began to come in with the Petrified
Man copied and guilelessly glorified, I began to feel a soothing secret satisfaction; and as
my gentleman's field of travels broadened, and by the exchanges I saw that he steadily and
implacably penetrated territory after territory, state after state, and land after land, till
he swept the great globe and culminated in sublime and unimpeached legitimacy in the august
London Lancet, my cup was full, and I said I was glad I had done it.  I think that for about
eleven months, as nearly as I can remember, Mr.----'s daily mail-bag continued to be swollen
by the addition of half a bushel of newspapers hailing from many climes with the Petrified
Man in them, marked around with a prominent belt of ink.  I sent them to him.  I did it for
spite, not for fun.

