He plucked idly at the wild thyme and the little golden vetches among the coarse grass of the
hillside. A fold of the blue dress lay beside him. He touched it inadvertently, and the colour
came to his cheek: unobserved, because he had his hat pulled down over his eyes, and Mary was
sketching for him in detail the plan of her book. It interested him because it was hers. Her
voice sounded like poetry. He had not wanted poetry. Blue-books and statistics had satisfied
him very well, hitherto. But, to be sure, he had read poetry in his Oxford days. Lines and
tags of it came into his mind dreamily as he listened to her voice. He did not touch that fold
of her gown again. If he was sure--but he was not quite sure. And there was Nelly. He supposed
Nelly cared for him if she was willing to marry him. If Nelly cared--why, then, he had no right
to think of other possibilities.

Something had gone out of the glory and enchantment of the day as they went back down the hillside.
Those lambs of clouds had suddenly banked themselves up into grey fleeces which covered the
sun. The wind blew a little cold.

"It is the capriciousness of April," said Mary, unconscious of any change in the mental atmosphere.

He stopped on the downhill path, took her cloak from her arm, and with kind carefulness laid
it about her shoulders. As he arranged it he touched one of the soft curls that lay on her
white neck, and again a thrill passed through him. He began to wish that he had not planned
this country expedition, after all. He ought really to have started this morning for the Continent.
Going on Saturday, he would have very little time to stay.

On the homeward way Mrs. Morres reproached him with his dulness. What had come to him?

He hesitated, glancing at Mary in her corner. Mary had enjoyed her day thoroughly, and was
wearing an air of great content. She was carrying a bunch of the wild thyme. She had taken
off her hat and her cloudy hair seemed blown about her head like an aureole. She had a delicate,
wild, elusive air. He withdrew his glance abruptly.

"It is a guilty conscience," he said. "I ought not to come back and dine with you to-night.
I ought to put you into a cab and myself into another, go home for my bag and take the night-express
to Paris. The House only rises for ten days and I have to be in my place on the opening night."

Mary looked up at him with a friendly air of being disappointed. She was engaged in putting
the wild thyme into a bunch, stalk by stalk. Mrs. Morres began to protest--

"Well, of all the deceitful persons! After luring me to spend a Good Friday in town. To be
sure, I shall have Mary. Will you come to the Good Friday service at St. Hugh's with me, Mary?"

"I should love to come."

"Very well, then. Have your bag packed and come back with me to sleep. We shall get off the
earlier on Saturday morning. So we shan't miss you at all, Sir Robin."

He looked at her with great contrition.

"My mother--" he began.

"To be sure, your mother has first claim. To say nothing of another."

He coloured. Mary was looking at him with kind interest. Mrs. Morres sent him a quick glance--then
looked away again.

"To be sure, you must go, Sir Robin," she said, in a serious voice. "I was only jesting. Ah!
here we are! So it is good-bye."

"Au revoir," he corrected.

"Well, au revoir. I hope you'll have a very happy time at Lugano. But you are sure to."

A moment later they had gone off in their cab, and he was feeling the blank of their absence.

CHAPTER XIX

WILD THYME AND VIOLETS

While Sir Robin and Mary Gray sat on that English hillside, Nelly and her father walked on
a hilly road above Lugano. The April afternoon was Paradise. Below, the lake lay blue as a
sapphire mirroring a sapphire sky. The space between them and the lake's edge was tinged with
a bloom of bluish-rose, for all the almond groves were out in blossom. Below them were drifts
of sweet-scented narcissi. All around them lay the mountains, Monte Rosa silver against the
sapphire sky. Below the fantastic houses clustered to the lake's edge in their little groves
and coppices of green.

They were talking of Robin's coming. The hour of his arrival was somewhat uncertain. They might
find him at the hotel when they returned, going home in the evening quietness, when Monte Rosa
would be flushed to rose-pink and the blue sky would die off in splendours of rose and orange.

Nelly was certainly looking better. Not a hint had come to her of the frontier war in which,
by this time, her lover must be engaged. The General starved for his newspapers in these days,
if he did not get the chance of a surreptitious peep at one at the English library, or when
some friendly fellow-guest in the hotel would hand him a belated print two days old. Nelly
had a wild rose bloom in her cheek and a light in her eye at this moment. Who could look upon
such a scene and not praise the Designer? Not Nelly, certainly. As they paused for the hundredth
time to look she breathed sighs of content and pressed her father's arm close to hers in a
caress. Even though one's lover had been cruel and had gone away without speaking, it was good
to be alive.

The appealing influence of the season was about them, too. They had just peeped into a little
wayside chapel, where there was a small altar ablaze with lights set amid masses of flowers.
The place was heavy with sweetness. Here and there knelt worshippers with bent heads. The General
had bowed with a reverent knee, and Nelly had knelt with him before they had gone out into
the blaze of the day again.

"There are only two armies, after all, Nell," the General had said, explaining himself. "The
army of the Lord and the army of the Prince of Darkness. Let us rejoice that we have so many
fellow-soldiers in the Lord's army, though we fight in different regiments."

"To-morrow," said Nelly dreamily, "the lights will be all out and the little chapel draped
in black. There will be the service of the Three Hours' Agony. Do you think we might come?"

"I'm afraid the Dowager would be shocked," her father replied hastily. "She would look upon
it as deserting the flag. Many excellent women are very narrow-minded."

They went along in silence. At intervals they sat down to enjoy at leisure the beautiful world
about them. They did not say much. There was little need for talk between two who understood
each other so thoroughly. While they dawdled, half-way round the lake from their hotel, the
sun dropped behind the hills and left them in shadow. It was time for them to go home.

As they went along leisurely, Nelly's face, uplifted towards the sky, seemed to have caught
an illumination from it. It was the eve of the Great Sacrifice. Already the shadow and the
light of it lay over the world. Nelly was thrilled and touched. That visit to the wayside chapel
had set chords vibrating in her heart. Sacrifice for love's sake appealed to her as it does
to all generous, impressionable young souls. Though her own personal happiness had vanished,
gone down under the world with the Sutlej, there was yet the happiness possible of making those
she loved happy. She had understood her father's wistful looks and tentative speeches. She
knew that he desired her happiness to be in her cousin's keeping. The old days were over, the
sweet days before that other had come, when she and her father had sufficed for each other.
They could never come again, and he wanted her to marry Robin. Robin's mother, who was good
to her, had suggested that she was trying Robin's patience too far. Why, if she could make
them all happy--she was not in a state of mind to appreciate what marriage with one man while
she loved another was going to cost her--if she could make them all happy, ought she not to do so?

"Father!" she whispered. "Father!"

"What is it, Nell?"

She rubbed her cheek slowly against his arm, not speaking for a second or two.

"Father, I am ready to marry Robin whenever you will."

The General's heart bounded up with an immense relief.

"Whenever I will?" he said, with an air of rallying her. "Is it not rather whenever you will?
Poor Robin has been waiting long enough."

"You are quite sure he wants me: I mean soon?"

"He'd be a dull fellow if he didn't."

The General had suddenly a memory of the time when he had called Robin a dull fellow in his
secret heart because he had been content to wait, endlessly to all appearances. He put the
memory away hastily as an uncomfortable one.

"To be sure, he wants you soon, Nelly, my dear," he said. "As soon as your old father can give
you up to him. You have always been Robin's little sweetheart from the time you were a child.
He has never thought of any girl but you."

He made the speech with a gulp, as though it were distasteful to him.

"I never thought there was any girl," Nelly said simply. "Robin is not at all a young man for
girls. Only he cares so much for politics. He has not seemed in any hurry."

"God bless my soul, to be sure, he is in a hurry. He must be in a hurry. When you get back
to your looking-glass, little Nell, ask yourself whether it is likely that he should not be
in a hurry!"

He was talking as much to reassure himself as Nelly. To be sure, Robin must be as eager a lover
as it was in his capacity to be. There was nothing volcanic about Robin. He was steady, sensible,
reliable! Yes, better let the affair be settled at once. June would be a good month for the
wedding. He could go afterwards and take the cure at Vichy for his gout. Pat could go with
him. Perhaps Nelly would take over Bridget and some of the other servants. Why shouldn't Robin
and Nelly have the house just as it stood? He would make them a deed of gift of it. He could
have a bachelor's flat somewhere near the Parks and the Clubs, with Pat to look after him.
It would be easier for him if the old house sanctified by many memories were not to be broken up.

Nelly's exaltation carried her on to Saturday afternoon. Sir Robin had arrived on the morning
of that day while the General and Nelly were out climbing the lower range of a hill. The Dowager
was no climber. More than that, she had acquired tact and good feeling it seemed in her latter
days, for she left father and daughter very much together. The General's heart had begun to
soften towards her. He had begun to ask himself how it was that he could have so persistently
misjudged her all those years. If Gerald had liked her well enough to marry her, surely he
could have done her more justice than so to dislike her.

The Dowager had her son to herself for some hours of the Saturday forenoon. He had suggested
following Nelly and her father up the mountain track, but she had detained him with a demonstrativeness
unusual in her, which struck him like a jarring note. What had come over his mother? She had
always been a woman of a cold and even harsh manner, at least to him. To be sure, he had noticed
with amazement that she had been different to Nelly. She ought to have had a daughter instead
of a son. He had no idea that if he had been a dashing soldier he might have been a far less
dutiful son, a far less satisfactory member of society than he was and yet have awakened a
feeling in his mother's breast which she had never given to him. Now he was embarrassed somewhat
by her playful insistence on her mother's right to her boy for a time. Playfulness sat as ill
on her as could well be imagined, and he was captious over her raillery on his hurry to be
at his cousin's side, calling it atrocious taste in his irritable mind, he who had never been
irritable, to whom it would have seemed the worst of taste to question good taste in his mother.

More than one person was irritable with the Dowager that day. The General was furiously irritable
over the transparent man[oe]uvre by which she packed off the young people together.

"Enough to spoil the whole thing," he thought, pursing his lips and pushing out his eyebrows
as he did when he was annoyed. "Indelicate! Stupid! I'd rather have her when she was disagreeable.
My poor Nell! She did not look very happy as she went. I had a great mind to go with her and
spoil things, after all."

The cousins found their way to Nelly's favourite haunt, the little coppice of low almond trees
with the troops of narcissi and violets and primroses colouring all the brown earth. They went
into the little chapel together. It smelt of incense after the ceremonies of the morning. The
mournful black had been removed. There were flowers on a side-table, and the sacristan was
setting the candlesticks on the fair white cloth which he had just laid along the altar. The
scents in the woods at home had been thin and faint by these. Standing with his hat in his
hand at the threshold of the little chapel, Robin Drummond had a memory of the scent of wild thyme.

He was not one to hesitate when he had made up his mind. His mother had told him that Nelly
was waiting, ready for the word which might have been hers any time those two or three years
back. Her father thought the time had come to arrange a date for their marriage. His mother,
too, was anxious to see him settled. Neither she nor the General was young any longer. They
had a right to look upon their children's happiness for the years that were left to them of life.

The young people were high on a mountain path, where few were to be met with except an occasional
Englishman climbing like themselves, or the goatherds with their little flocks. He had helped
her up a steep bit of climbing. The exertion had brought an unwonted colour to her face. Her
hand lay in his, soft and warm. His closed on it and held it. It was the hand of one who had
never done anything toilsome in her life, the hand of a petted darling. He remembered another
hand, thin, brown, capable. None of Mary's later years of ease had given her the hand of a
woman of leisure. It was the hand of a comrade, a helpmate. Nelly's hand fluttered in his and
was suddenly cold.

"Well, Nell," he said, "do you know what I came here in the mind to ask you?"

"Yes." He saw the quick rise and fall of her bosom; he noticed the almost terrified look of
her eyes. Was that how women showed their happy agitation when their lovers claimed them? Poor
little Nell! How easily frightened she was! She had turned quite pale. He would have to be
very good to her in the days to come.

"Haven't you kept me waiting long enough, little girl?" he went on with a tenderness which
might easily have passed for a lover's. "I've been very patient, haven't I? But now my patience
has come to an end. When are you going to fix a date for our marriage?"

"We have been very happy," began Nelly with trembling lips.

"Not so happy as we are going to be. God knows, Nell, I will do my best to make you happy,
and may God bless my best!"

As he said it the scent of some little plant, bruised beneath his feet, rose to his nostrils,
sharply aromatic. It was the wild thyme, the fragrance of which had hung about him those few
days back, no matter how he tried to banish it.

"I will be very good to you, Nelly, if you can trust me with yourself."

It was not the least bit in the world like the love-making of Nelly's dreams. To be sure, he
was good and kind, the dear, kind old Robin he had always been. She was grateful that he was
not more lover-like according to her ideals. If he had taken her in his arms and kissed her
passionately like that other--she smelt lilies of the valley where Robin Drummond smelt the
wild thyme--she could not have endured it. As it was, she answered him sweetly.

"I know you will be good to me, Robin. When were you ever anything but good?"

Then he kissed her, a light kiss that brushed her lips. He felt his own shortcomings as a lover
when he saw the blood rush tumultuously to her face, cover even her neck. Why, she must care
for him with some passion to blush like that for his kiss. He had no idea that it was the memory
of another kiss which had caused that wild flush of colour.

"Well, Nell, when is it to be?" he asked, trying to galvanise himself out of his coldness,
trying to make the pity and tenderness which she awoke in him take the place of passion.

"When you will, Robin."

"You will never repent it, God helping me," he said again.

They came back, as they were expected to, with things settled between them. Robin had consulted
a calendar in his pocket-book and named a date--Thursday, 23rd of July. He would be free then.
The House would have risen and he would be able to devote himself to his honeymooning with
a clear mind. He had not asked for an earlier date, but it did not occur to Nelly to wonder
at that. She was relieved to find it so far off. Already she thought of the time between as
a respite, the "Long day, my Lord!" of those condemned to death.

The Dowager saw nothing wrong with the date. They could wander about the Continent leisurely,
coming home early in June to prepare Nelly's wedding-clothes. The General, after his first
irritation had passed, had brought himself to tell her of his plan about the house. She approved
graciously as she thought. It was very generous of the General. To be sure, Robin must have
a town house now he was married. Sherwood Square was a little out of the way and quite unfashionable.
Still, it was a fine house in an excellent situation to balance those drawbacks. And of course
it must be new-papered and painted and modern conveniences placed in it. That could be done
while the young couple were away honeymooning. Robin must be on the telephone, of course. That
was indispensable. And the furniture must be fresh-covered, so much of it as they decided to
keep. A deal of it was old-fashioned and had better go to a sale-room. New carpets too. Already
the Dowager was making calculations of what it was going to cost the General. She was capable
of a certain grim enjoyment in the spending of other people's money.

"Do you propose to live with them, ma'am?" the General asked at last, in a constrained voice.

She looked at him in amazement.

"Why, to be sure. Poor child, she will need someone beside her. Those servants of yours, Denis,
they've had their own way too much. I've no doubt there's a terrible leakage in the establishment."

"If you propose to live with them, ma'am," the General went on, bursting with fury, "I don't
give up my house at all. Robin can find his own town-house. The servants have done very well
for me and Nelly. So have the chairs and tables and carpets. I'd nearly as soon send my own
flesh and blood to an auction-room."

The Dowager was alarmed. She tried to propitiate the General after her usual manner towards
him. It was as though she tried to distract a froward child.

"Dear me," she said, "dear me! I didn't mean to offend you, Denis. The house is shabby. Those
dogs have always sat in the chairs and on the carpets. I only thought that we might put our
heads together for the good of the young people."

"I'm a Dutchman if we will, ma'am!" shouted the General. "As for the dogs, did you intend to
exclude them, too, from the fine new house? You'd never teach them not to sit in chairs at
this time of their lives."

