"He's a lady-killer all right!" Terry said. "Ahma told me that he had coaxed the calico away
from one of the girls."

The Major stirred. "You saw Ahma to-day?"

But he had hesitated so long over the question that Terry, sunk in deep thought, did not hear
him, and somehow he did not feel like repeating. He turned in on the hard bed with new things
on his mind. Measles is not the only affection that "takes harder" near maturity.

Several days passed without incident. Each morning the clearing emptied after breakfast as
all but the cooks left for the day's work. Usually Terry wandered out alone, returning at evening
to sit in the doorway, lost in study.

Daily the Major loitered about the village till late afternoon, then took up his stand in the
woods near Ohto's domicile, waiting: and Ahma never failed him. Bashfully distressed at first
in the close proximity to the wealth of charm revealed by her scant costume, he soon became
unconscious of it, her garb was so entirely congruous to her free, unschooled nature. He practiced
his sketchy dialect upon her, delighted in each successful transmission of thought, more delighted
in the naïve bewilderment that many of his linguistic efforts wrought in her frank features.

The fifth day she failed to appear. He waited long, restless, till certain that she would not
come and then set off through the woods, his big heart yearning for an unattainable something
he could not define or classify.

Regardless of where he went the Major crossed the tableland and started down the incline of
the slope. A mile, and he came across some young hunters beating deer into a fenced runway
that converged to a narrow opening where two warriors stood ready, armed with great spears.
He turned to the left, crossing a little burnt clearing which still bore the stubble of the
season's harvest. Another half-mile and he suddenly came upon a grass lean-to behind which
two old Hillmen grimly stirred a simmering pot from which arose an overpowering stench: he
fled the spot, knowing the sinister character of the venomous brew.

The sun was low when he returned to the hut, still unhappy over Ahma's failure to appear. In
a few minutes Terry entered the shack. He had come from the direction of Ohto's house, and
his face was cleared of the perplexity of the last few days.

During supper Terry studied the moody face of his friend, but forebore comment. At the hour
of sunset--the hour when the superstitious Hillmen looked for their "signs"--the savages thronged
the clearing in mute expectancy. It was apparent that Ohto's injunction had been communicated
throughout the Hills, as each night the crowd who waited the sign was augmented by contingents
from other villages. The hundreds stood, silent, as the sun sank slowly into a horizon of white
clouds which flushed pink, brightened into shades of rose and crimson. For a brief moment the
upturned faces of the brown host were ruddied; they stood motionless, mute, while dusk settled.
Then night fell almost at a stroke.

Again there had been no revelation. As the heaped fires illuminated the clearing, five mature
Hillmen stalked past the white men's hut and into the forest. Terry identified them to the
Major as the sub-chiefs who ruled the five adjacent villages.

The Major sat in the window a while, watching the Hillmen, who squatted around the fires smoking
their ridiculously tiny pipes and conversing in low gutturals. He fidgeted, then left Terry
unceremoniously and skirting the village through the woods unseen by the crowd, he waited an
hour near Ohto's house in the hope of seeing Ahma. Disappointed, he returned and threw himself
on the cot.

Terry sat in his accustomed place in the doorway, watching the fleecy clouds that a high wind
drove across the sky, vast sliding shutters which opened and closed over the cool glow of the
moon. The cold breeze chilled the Major, and he drew his blanket tight about him. Terry's voice
roused him from his dejected reverie.

"Major, I notice that you didn't carry your gun to-day. Don't go without it again."

The Major half rose: "Why--you don't think--I haven't seen any indication of--"

"I guess you've forgotten that we are in the Hill Country. If they find a 'sign' that is unfavorable
to us--there won't be any delay. And we don't want to sell out cheaply."

The grave judicial tones startled the Major. In his absorption in the white girl he had lost
sight of their precarious situation.

Terry went on: "The tide of sentiment is turning against us. They seem more antagonistic, more
sullen. So please be careful."

Terry lapsed silent and sat in the door, chin in hand. Soon the increasing wind drove the Major
under his blanket again, and overcome by a curious feeling of comfort and security in the mere
presence of the slight figure huddled at the door, he soon fell asleep.

Terry, unmindful of the chill breeze, remained in the doorway, deep in thought. Suddenly he
brought his hand to his knee in quick decision, and after tip-toeing over to the Major to be
sure that he slept, he silently departed the hut and skirting the edge of the moonlit clearing,
disappeared into the lane that led to the house where Ahma lived.

       *       *       *       *       *

Toward morning the Major woke with a start, bewildered by an unearthly sound that smote his
ears. The wind had risen to a gale, tearing the fleece from the sky, so that the moon peered
down upon a sea of treetops turbulent with the buffets of rushing air.

He sat up straight to relieve the thunderous humming in his head, then comprehending that the
amazing sound was a reality, he strove to solve the source of the bewildering tones. A deep,
low murmuring filled the air, swelling in volume with each heavier gust which drove over the
mountain: the sound deepened and strengthened, mounting to a sustained musical rumble that
almost stupefied him.

"Ooooommmmmm-ah-oooommmmmmmm-ah-oooooo-ommmmmmm." The muffled volume diminished, increased
again with fresh burst of fleeting wind, and as the wind subsided suddenly, the vibrant note
fluttered, died away.

The Major had lived too long and too much to believe in the supernatural but in the dark he
found relief in the sound of his own voice.

"Sus-marie-hosep!" he breathed. "Some ghost! No wonder they believe in signs up here!"

He saw that the wind had blown shut the door into Terry's room. Knowing his habit of ventilation
he rose to open it, and as it swung ajar he saw that Terry was not there.

He stood in the dim room a moment, staring out of the window at the triple rows of huts which
the moonlight had transformed into elfin playhouses. Perplexity as to Terry's whereabouts gave
way to deep anxiety. Then his eyes caught the flicker of something white in the shadowy grove
that fronted Ohto's house. Looking closely, he watched it flutter away among the trees, then
a darker figure emerged from the spot.

It was Terry.

The Major's big hands closed hard upon the bamboo sill. Ahma! Terry! For the first time in
his passionless life he felt the fangs of the green-eyed monster.

An impulse to deceive, unusual with him, hurried the Major into the folds of his blanket before
Terry entered, but by the time Terry had thrown himself upon his couch the Major was ashamed
of the duplicity and spoke to uncover the deceit.

"Terry, what was that infernal sound that waked me up a while ago?"

"The gale playing on the Agong, Major."

The Major said no more but tossed on the hard couch until daylight shot through the trees.
He rose at once and in a few minutes Terry joined him, a little hollow-eyed with fatigue. The
Major pointed at his soiled shirt and breeches, then at the soaked leggings and shoes.

"Man, you're a sight! Fall in the creek?"

Terry grinned contentedly. "No. This waiting was getting monotonous--so I fixed up a sign for
them!"

"That infernal noise, you mean?"

"No. The wind always does that."

"Well, what did you do?"

Terry's grin broadened. "I'm not going to spoil it for you by telling, but if you stick around
you'll see a sizeable 'natural' phenomenon within a day or so. In the east, too, the most favorable
quarter!"

The Major could extract nothing further from him, so desisted after an irate: "Well, you let
me in on these stunts after this. You're all in--and here I lay sleeping all night!"

Terry sobered. "Major, we did not need you--we got along all right."

"We?" Heartsick, the Major sought to plunge the iron deeper. But Terry had slipped out to clean
up at the creek before the girls should come.

That morning they noted that for the first time a number of warriors hung around the village,
watching the hut where the white men lived with a studied insolence that proved their hostility.
Pud-Pud was of them, and loudest in his talk. At noon a large crowd had gathered, composed
of those most inimical to the strangers.

While the two stood near the entrance to their shack watching the eddying currents of almost
naked humanity they saw Pud-Pud detach himself from his companions and swagger toward them,
spear in hand.

The crowd watched him eagerly as he advanced to test the mettle of the pale outlanders: Pud-Pud
had boasted that he would end this suspense.

The insolent savage advanced, stopped ten feet from them and brandished his weapon, his attitude
one of utter contempt. He spat at them.

Rage suffused the Major's face and his hand crept into his shirt front, but before he could
withdraw the gun Terry whispered a restraining caution.

"I know him, Major,--a grandstander."

Terry stepped in front of the Major and returned the savage's stare. A moment they battled,
then the Hillman saw something in the white face that disconcerted him, so that his offensive
black eyes lost their hint of insult, wavered, fell. As Terry moved toward him slowly, Pud-Pud
hesitated, then gave way before the stern visage of the approaching American.

Terry, boring him with cold gray eyes, came faster: retreating rapidly to maintain his distance
from the white man, Pud-Pud hurried his backward pace toward the ring of silent Hillmen who
watched them. Heedless of his steps, conscious only of an overwhelming desire to maintain a
safe distance from this purposeful white man whom he had affronted, Pud-Pud backed away, eyes
fastened upon the pale avenger.

Moving suddenly to the right, Terry forced him to alter the direction of his hurrying footsteps.
The rapid heels hit a bowlder and Pud-Pud fell backward into one of the cooking places, his
spear flying aimlessly into the air as the sitting portions of his anatomy came into contact
with the red hot stones.

One howl and one swift contortion of outraged flesh lifted him from the spot and he escaped
through the crowd, followed by the mocking laughter of the Hillmen. Terry picked up the spear
and crossed the circle of savages to hand it to the largest and loudest savage in the group
to which the braggart had belonged. He looked him full in the eye with a significance fully
understood by the onlookers, then turned his back upon him and returned to the Major.

The Major was convulsed: "I saw what you--had in mind--when you circled him toward it," he
laughed. "It must have been hot with nothing but a red G-string between his rump and those coals!"

But the incident was significant of the attitude of many of the Hillmen. Inside the hut they
examined their pistols carefully, Terry insisting that the Major take two of his extra magazines.

The Major, in grim mood, left for a long walk. In crossing the clearing he purposely cut straight
toward a group of warriors who at the last moment stepped sullenly aside to let him pass. Surlily
pleased with his little victory, he crossed the broad plateau and struck down the slope, unconscious
of his direction in the worried fumbling of his problems and his hurt. He started down the
first great incline, distrait, sorely troubled. He crossed a green expanse where grass had
sprung up over the site of an abandoned clearing, and as he reached the trees which marked
its edge he was startled by the sudden appearance of two Hillmen who stepped out to confront
him, pointing their spears toward the village in unmistakable gesture.

As he angrily struck another course he realized for the first time how complete his absorption
in Ahma had become. He had forgotten that he and Terry were prisoners, had lost sight of the
mission that had brought him into the Hills.

Chastened, he slowly retraced his way to the edge of the woods and sat down upon a windfall
to think it all out. He blamed only himself. Her interest in him, he thought dully, had been
but a friendship natural toward the friend of the one for whom she cared. Little things came
back to him: her expression when she watched Terry approach, the sympathy that existed between
them, little understandings which he had attributed to nothing more than longer acquaintance.
It suddenly occurred to him that she had helped nurse him when he was ill. And it came to him
that he had given little thought to the days when Terry had fought off death, had been heedless
of what those days must have been when Terry looked from the mountain deep into the valley
of the shadow, he groaned aloud.

He shook his head, miserably: "Here I've been, mooning around like a--like a--and left him
to do all the worrying--all the planning! Last night I slept while he--" He cursed himself
for a fatuous fool.

When he rose, the bitterness of spirit had left him, and his sacrifice had been made, but his
lips were white with suffering.

As he neared the village his course took him about the base of the crag, and as he rounded
the western side he heard the murmur of subdued voices. He slowed and approached cautiously.
A jutting buttress of rock masked the talkers until he was almost upon them, and as he turned
this corner he halted in a wretched pang of the jealousy he thought he had subdued.

Terry and Ahma sat on a bench of rock, their backs to him, unaware of his presence. Terry's
trim head was bent forward as if he studied the western horizon; she leaned against him in
gentle contact of firm white shoulder.

For a moment the Major's heart thumped painfully, then the confusion of the unwitting eavesdropper
compelled him to make his presence known. He did so with that fine discrimination and artful
delicacy he summoned in times of emotional stress.

"Hello," he said.

Both turned, and rose, unembarrassed. Terry's welcome shone in his face, and Ahma was radiant
with a quick emotion which, true to the traditions of those among whom she had been reared,
she made no effort to dissemble or restrain. The Major dropped his eyes before the gaze, noting,
dully, how wind and sun had faintly tanned the neck and shoulders and limbs. Sun and wind were
patent, too, in the vigor and elasticity of the slim, loose clad form.

"I'm teaching her English, Major," Terry said.

For a moment she maintained her searching of the Major's averted eyes, then spoke a word to
Terry and turned to go. A few steps took her to the buttress, where she stopped and turned
her eyes full upon the Major, and spoke in English, teasingly:

"Hello, sir."

The Major answered in a voice that sounded harsh in his own ears and watched her disappear
around the corner. Then he spoke to Terry without facing him.

"She does speak English!"

"Not much, yet. She really meant 'good-by.'"

