At midnight, that night, after the usual feasting, Conrad was taken to the haunted chamber
and left there. He fell asleep, by and by.

When he awoke again and looked about him, his heart stood still with horror! The whole aspect
of the chamber was changed. The walls were moldy and hung with ancient cobwebs; the curtains
and beddings were rotten; the furniture was rickety and ready to fall to pieces. He sprang
out of bed, but his quaking knees sunk under him and he fell to the floor.

"This is the weakness of age," he said.

He rose and sought his clothing. It was clothing no longer. The colors were gone, the garments
gave way in many places while he was putting them on. He fled, shuddering, into the corridor,
and along it to the great hall. Here he was met by a middle-aged stranger of a kind countenance,
who stopped and gazed at him with surprise. Conrad said:

"Good sir, will you send hither the lord Ulrich?"

The stranger looked puzzled a moment, then said:

"The lord Ulrich?"

"Yes--if you will be so good."

The stranger called--"Wilhelm!" A young serving-man came, and the stranger said to him:

"Is there a lord Ulrich among the guests?"

"I know none of the name, so please your honor."

Conrad said, hesitatingly:

"I did not mean a guest, but the lord of the castle, sir."

The stranger and the servant exchanged wondering glances. Then the former said:

"I am the lord of the castle."

"Since when, sir?"

"Since the death of my father, the good lord Ulrich more than forty years ago."

Conrad sank upon a bench and covered his face with his hands while he rocked his body to and
fro and moaned. The stranger said in a low voice to the servant:

"I fear me this poor old creature is mad. Call some one."

In a moment several people came, and grouped themselves about, talking in whispers. Conrad
looked up and scanned the faces about him wistfully.

Then he shook his head and said, in a grieved voice:

"No, there is none among ye that I know. I am old and alone in the world. They are dead and
gone these many years that cared for me. But sure, some of these aged ones I see about me can
tell me some little word or two concerning them."

Several bent and tottering men and women came nearer and answered his questions about each
former friend as he mentioned the names. This one they said had been dead ten years, that one
twenty, another thirty. Each succeeding blow struck heavier and heavier. At last the sufferer said:

"There is one more, but I have not the courage to--O my lost Catharina!"

One of the old dames said:

"Ah, I knew her well, poor soul. A misfortune overtook her lover, and she died of sorrow nearly
fifty years ago. She lieth under the linden tree without the court."

Conrad bowed his head and said:

"Ah, why did I ever wake! And so she died of grief for me, poor child. So young, so sweet,
so good! She never wittingly did a hurtful thing in all the little summer of her life. Her
loving debt shall be repaid--for I will die of grief for her."

His head drooped upon his breast. In the moment there was a wild burst of joyous laughter,
a pair of round young arms were flung about Conrad's neck and a sweet voice cried:

"There, Conrad mine, thy kind words kill me--the farce shall go no further! Look up, and laugh
with us--'twas all a jest!"

And he did look up, and gazed, in a dazed wonderment--for the disguises were stripped away,
and the aged men and women were bright and young and gay again. Catharina's happy tongue ran on:

"'Twas a marvelous jest, and bravely carried out. They gave you a heavy sleeping-draught before
you went to bed, and in the night they bore you to a ruined chamber where all had fallen to
decay, and placed these rags of clothing by you. And when your sleep was spent and you came
forth, two strangers, well instructed in their parts, were here to meet you; and all we, your
friends, in our disguises, were close at hand, to see and hear, you may be sure. Ah, 'twas
a gallant jest! Come, now, and make thee ready for the pleasures of the day. How real was thy
misery for the moment, thou poor lad! Look up and have thy laugh, now!"

He looked up, searched the merry faces about him in a dreamy way, then sighed and said:

"I am aweary, good strangers, I pray you lead me to her grave."

All the smile vanished away, every cheek blanched, Catharina sunk to the ground in a swoon.

All day the people went about the castle with troubled faces, and communed together in undertones.
A painful hush pervaded the place which had lately been so full of cheery life. Each in his
turn tried to arouse Conrad out of his hallucination and bring him to himself; but all the
answer any got was a meek, bewildered stare, and then the words:

"Good stranger, I have no friends, all are at rest these many years; ye speak me fair, ye mean
me well, but I know ye not; I am alone and forlorn in the world--prithee lead me to her grave."

During two years Conrad spent his days, from the early morning till the night, under the linden
tree, mourning over the imaginary grave of his Catharina. Catharina was the only company of
the harmless madman. He was very friendly toward her because, as he said, in some ways she
reminded him of his Catharina whom he had lost "fifty years ago." He often said:

"She was so gay, so happy-hearted--but you never smile; and always when you think I am not
looking, you cry."

When Conrad died, they buried him under the linden, according to his directions, so that he
might rest "near his poor Catharina." Then Catharina sat under the linden alone, every day
and all day long, a great many years, speaking to no one, and never smiling; and at last her
long repentance was rewarded with death, and she was buried by Conrad's side.

Harris pleased the captain by saying it was good legend; and pleased him further by adding:

"Now that I have seen this mighty tree, vigorous with its four hundred years, I feel a desire
to believe the legend for ITS sake; so I will humor the desire, and consider that the tree
really watches over those poor hearts and feels a sort of human tenderness for them."

We returned to Necharsteinach, plunged our hot heads into the trough at the town pump, and
then went to the hotel and ate our trout dinner in leisurely comfort, in the garden, with the
beautiful Neckar flowing at our feet, the quaint Dilsberg looming beyond, and the graceful
towers and battlements of a couple of medieval castles (called the "Swallow's Nest" [1] and
"The Brothers.") assisting the rugged scenery of a bend of the river down to our right. We
got to sea in season to make the eight-mile run to Heidelberg before the night shut down. We
sailed by the hotel in the mellow glow of sunset, and came slashing down with the mad current
into the narrow passage between the dikes. I believed I could shoot the bridge myself, and
I went to the forward triplet of logs and relieved the pilot of his pole and his responsibility.

   1. The seeker after information is referred to Appendix E
  for our captain's legend of the "Swallow's Nest" and
  "The Brothers."

We went tearing along in a most exhilarating way, and I performed the delicate duties of my
office very well indeed for a first attempt; but perceiving, presently, that I really was going
to shoot the bridge itself instead of the archway under it, I judiciously stepped ashore. The
next moment I had my long-coveted desire: I saw a raft wrecked. It hit the pier in the center
and went all to smash and scatteration like a box of matches struck by lightning.

