The letters in this collection constitute but a small part of her large correspondence.  They
have been gathered up and arranged by the hands of dear relatives and friends as a fitting
memorial of one who wrote from the heart as well as the head, and who held her literary reputation
subordinate always to her philanthropic aim to lessen the sum of human suffering, and to make
the world better for her living.  If they sometimes show the heat and impatience of a zealous
reformer, they may well be pardoned in consideration of the circumstances under which they
were written, and of the natural indignation of a generous nature in view of wrong and oppression.
If she touched with no very reverent hand the garment hem of dogmas, and held to the spirit
of Scripture rather than its letter, it must be remembered that she lived in a time when the
Bible was cited in defence of slavery, as it is now in Utah in support of polygamy; and she
may well be excused for some degree of impatience with those who, in the tithing of mint and
anise and cummin, neglected the weightier matters of the law of justice and mercy.

Of the men and women directly associated with the beloved subject of this sketch, but few are
now left to recall her single-hearted devotion to apprehended duty, her unselfish generosity,
her love of all beauty and harmony, and her trustful reverence, free from pretence and cant.
It is not unlikely that the surviving sharers of her love and friendship may feel the inadequateness
of this brief memorial, for I close it with the consciousness of having failed to fully delineate
the picture which my memory holds of a wise and brave, but tender and loving woman, of whom
it might well have been said, in the words of the old Hebrew text, "Many, daughters have done
virtuously, but thou excellest them all."

OLIVER WENDELL HOLMES

     On the occasion of the seventy-fifth birthday of Dr. Holmes The
     Critic of New York collected personal tributes from friends and
     admirers of that author.  My own contribution was as follows:--

Poet, essayist, novelist, humorist, scientist, ripe scholar, and wise philosopher, if Dr. Holmes
does not, at the present time, hold in popular estimation the first place in American literature,
his rare versatility is the cause.  In view of the inimitable prose writer, we forget the poet;
in our admiration of his melodious verse, we lose sight of Elsie Venner and The Autocrat of
the Breakfast Table.  He is Montaigne and Bacon under one hat.  His varied qualities would
suffice for the mental furnishing of half a dozen literary specialists.

To those who have enjoyed the privilege of his intimate acquaintance, the man himself is more
than the author.  His genial nature, entire freedom from jealousy or envy, quick tenderness,
large charity, hatred of sham, pretence, and unreality, and his reverent sense of the eternal
and permanent have secured for him something more and dearer than literary renown,--the love
of all who know him.  I might say much more: I could not say less.  May his life be long in
the land.

Amesbury, Mass., 8th Month, 18, 1884.

LONGFELLOW

     Written to the chairman of the committee of arrangements for
     unveiling the bust of Longfellow at Portland, Maine, on the poet's
     birthday, February 27, 1885.

I am sorry it is not in my power to accept the invitation of the committee to be present at
the unveiling of the bust of Longfellow on the 27th instant, or to write anything worthy of
the occasion in metrical form.

