The Queen looked up uneasy and imploring, as Charles continued: 'Would that more of you would
come in this way! They have scored you deep, but know you what is gashed deeper still? Your
King's heart! Ah! you will not come, as Coligny does, from his gibbet, with his two bleeding
hands. My father was haunted to his dying day by the face of one Huguenot tailor. Why, I see
a score, night by night! You are solid; let me feel you, man.

'M. Pare,' exclaimed the poor Queen, 'take him away.

'No, Madame,' said the King, holding tight in his hot grasp Berenger's hand, which was as pale
as his own, long, thin, and wasted, but cold from strong emotion; 'take not away the only welcome
sight I have seen for well-nigh two years.' He coughed, and the handkerchief he put to his
lips had blood on it; but he did not quit his hold of his visitor, and presently said in a
feeble whisper, 'Tell me, how did you escape?

Pare, over the King's head, signed to him to make his narrative take time; and indeed his speech
was of necessity so slow, that by the time he had related how Osbert had brought him safely
to England, the King had recovered himself so as to say, 'See what it is to have a faithful
servant. Which of those they have left me would do as much for me? And now, being once away
with your life, what brings you back to this realm of ours, after your last welcome?

'I left my wife here, Sire.

'Ha! and the cousin would have married her--obtained permission to call himself Nid de Merle--but
she slipped through his clumsy fingers; did she not? Did you know anything of her, Madame?

'No,' said the Queen, looking up. 'She wrote to me once from her convent; but I knew I could
do nothing for her but bring her enemies' notice on her; so I made no answer.

Berenger could hardly conceal his start of indignation--less at the absolute omission, than
at the weary indifference of the Queen's confession. Perhaps the King saw it, for he added,
'So it is, Ribaumont; the kindest service we can do our friends is to let them alone; and,
after all, it was not the worse for her. She did evade her enemies?

'Yes, Sire,' said Berenger, commanding and steadying his voice with great difficulty, 'she
escaped in time to give birth to our child in the ruined loft of an old grange of the Templars,
under the care of a Huguenot farmer, and a pastor who had known my father. Then she took refuge
in La Sablerie, and wrote to my mother, deeming me dead. I was just well enough to go in quest
of her. I came--ah! Sire, I found only charred ruins. Your Majesty knows how Huguenot bourgs
are dealt with.

'And she---?

Berenger answered but by a look.

'Why did you come to tell me this?' said the King, passionately. 'Do you not know that they
have killed me already? I thought you came because there was still some one I could aid.

'There is, there is, Sire,' said Berenger, for once interrupting royalty. 'None save you can
give me my child. It is almost certain that a good priest saved it; but it is in a convent,
and only with a royal order can one of my religion either obtain it, or even have my questions
answered.

'Nor with one in Paris,' said the King dryly; 'but in the country the good mothers may still
honour their King's hand. Here, Ambroise, take pen and ink, and write the order. To whom?

'To the Mother Prioress of the Ursulines at Lucon, so please our Majesty,' said Berenger, 'to
let me have possession of my daughter.

'Eh! is it only a little girl?

'Yes, Sire; but my heart yearns for her all the more,' said Berenger, with glistening eyes.

'You are right,' said the poor King. 'Mine, too, is a little girl; and I bless God daily that
she is no son--to be the most wretched thing the France. Let her come in, Madame. She is little
older than my friend's daughter. I would show her to him.

The Queen signed to Madame la Comtesse to fetch the child, and Berenger added, 'Sire, you could
do a further benefit to my poor little one. One more signature of yours would attest that ratification
of my marriage which took place in your Majesty's presence.

'Ah! I remember,' said Charles. 'You may have any name of mine that can help you to oust that
villain Narcisse; only wait to use it--spare me any more storms. It will serve your turn as
well when I am beyond they, and you will make your claim good. What,' seeing Berenger's interrogative
look, 'do you not know that by the marriage-contract the lands of each were settled on the
survivor?

'No, Sire; I have never seen the marriage-contract.

'Your kinsman knew it well,' said Charles.

Just then, Madame la Comtesse returned, leading the little Princess by the long ribbons at
her waist; Charles bent forward, calling, 'Here, ma petite, come here. Here is one who loves
thy father. Look well at him, that thou mayest know him.

The little Madame Elisabeth so far understood, that, with a certain lofty condescension, she
extended her hand for the stranger to kiss, and thus drew from the King the first smile that
Berenger had seen. She was more than half a year older than the Berangere on whom his hopes
were set, and whom he trusted to find not such a pale, feeble, tottering little creature as
this poor young daughter of France, whose round black eyes gazed wonderingly at his scar; but
she was very precocious, and even already too much of a royal lady to indulge in any awkward
personal observation.

By the time she had been rewarded for her good behaviour by one of the dried plums in her father's
comfit-box, the order had been written by Pare, and Berenger had prepared the certificate for
the King's signature, according to the form given him by his grandfather.

'Your writing shakes nearly as much as mine,' said the poor King, as he wrote his name to this
latter. 'Now, Madame, you had better sign it also; and tell this gentleman where to find Father
Meinhard in Austria. He was a little too true for us, do you see--would not give thanks for
shedding innocent blood. Ah!'--and with a gasp of mournful longing, the King sank back, while
Elisabeth, at his bidding, added her name to the certificate, and murmured the name of a convent
in Vienna, where her late confessor could be found.

'I cannot thank you Majesty enough,' said Berenger; 'My child's rights are now secure in England
at least, and this'--as he held the other paper for the King--'will give her to me.

'Ah! take it for what it is worth,' said the King, as he scrawled his 'CHARLES' upon it. 'This
order must be used promptly, or it will avail you nothing. Write to Ambroise how you speed;
that is, if it will bring me one breath of good news.' And as Berenger kissed his hand with
tearful, inarticulate thanks, he proceeded, 'Save for that cause, I would ask you to come to
me again. It does me good. It is like a breath from Montpipeau--the last days of hope--before
the frenzy--the misery.

'Whenever your Majesty does me the honour---' began Berenger, forgetting all except the dying man.

'I am not so senseless,' interrupted the King sharply; 'it would be losing the only chance
of undoing one wrong. Only, Ribaumont,' he added fervently, 'for once let me hear that one
man has pardoned me.

'Sire, Sire,' sobbed Berenger, totally overcome, 'how can I speak the word? How feel aught
but love, loyalty, gratitude?

Charles half smiled again as he said in sad meditation--'Ah! it was in me to have been a good
king if they had let me. Think of me, bid your friend Sidney think of me, as I would have been--not
as I have been--and pray, pray for me.' Then hiding his face in his handkerchief, in a paroxysm
of grief and horror, he murmured in a stifled tone, 'Blood, blood, deliver me, good Lord!

In effect, there was so sudden a gush of blood from mouth and nose that Berenger sprang to
his feet in dismay, and was bona fide performing the part of assistant to the surgeon, when,
at the Queen's cry, not only the nurse Philippe hurried in, but with her a very dark, keen-looking
man, who at once began applying strong essences to the King's face, as Berenger supported his
head. In a few moments Pare looked up at Berenger, and setting him free, intimated to him,
between sign and whisper, to go into Philippe's room and wait there; and it was high time,
for though the youth had felt nothing in the stress of the moment, he was almost swooning when
he reached the little chamber, and lay back in the nurse's chair, with closed eyes, scarcely
conscious how time went, or even where he was, till he was partly aroused by hearing steps
returning.

'The poor young man,' said Philippe's kind voice, 'he is fainting. Ah! no wonder it overcame
any kind heart.

'How is the King?' Berenger tried to say, but his own voice still sounded unnatural and far away.

'He is better for the time, and will sleep,' said Pare, administering to his other patient
some cordial drops as he spoke. 'There, sir; you will soon be able to return to the carriage.
This has been a sore trial to your strength.

'But I have gained all--all I could hope,' said Berenger, looking at his precious papers. 'But,
alas! the poor King!

'You will never, never let a word of blame pass against him,' cried Philippe earnestly. 'It
is well that one of our people should have seen how it really is with him. All I regret is
that Maitre Rene thrust himself in and saw you.

'Who?' said Berenger, who had been too much engrossed to perceive any one.

'Maitre Rene of Milan, the Queen-mother's perfume. He came with some plea of bringing a pouncet-box
from her, but I wager it was as a spy. I was doing my best to walk him gently off, when the
Queen's cry called me, and he must needs come in after me.

'I saw him not,' said Berenger; 'perhaps he marked not me in the confusion.

'I fear,' said Pare gravely, 'he was more likely to have his senses about him than you. M.
le Baron; these bleedings of the King's are not so new to us familiars to the palace. The best
thing now to be done is to have you to the carriage, if you can move.

Berenger, now quite recovered, stood up, and gave his warm thanks to the old nurse for her
kindness to him.

'Ah! sir,' she said, 'you are one of us. Pray, pray that God will have mercy on my poor child!
He has the truth in his heart. Pray that it may save him at the last.

Ambroise, knowing that she would never cease speaking while there was any one to hear her,
almost dragged Berenger out at the little secret door, conveyed him safely down the stairs,
and placed him again in the carriage. Neither spoke till the surgeon said, 'You have seen a
sad sight, Monsieur le Baron: I need not bid you be discreet.

'There are some things that go too deep for speech,' sighed the almost English Berenger; then,
after a pause, 'Is there no hope for him? Is he indeed dying?

'Without a miracle, he cannot live a month. He is as truly slain by the St. Bartholomew as
ever its martyrs were,' said Pare, moved out of his usual cautious reserve towards one who
had seen so much and felt so truly. 'I tell you, sir, that his mother hath as truly slain her
sons, as if she had sent Rene there to them with his drugs. According as they have consciences
and hearts, so they pine and perish under her rule.

Berenger shuddered, and almost sobbed, 'And hath he no better hope, no comforter?' he asked.

'None save good old Flipote. As you heard, the Queen-mother will not suffer his own Church
to speak to him in her true voice. No confessor but one chosen by the Cardinal of Lorraine
may come near him; and with him all is mere ceremony. But if at the last he opens his ear and
heart to take in the true hope of salvation, it will be from the voice of poor old Philippe.

