"I am Yokel, once a farmer and prosperous, with loving wife and kids--now am I somewhat different
in estate and calling; and the wife and kids are gone; mayhap they are in heaven, mayhap in--in
the other place--but the kindly God be thanked, they bide no more in ENGLAND!  My good old
blameless mother strove to earn bread by nursing the sick; one of these died, the doctors knew
not how, so my mother was burnt for a witch, whilst my babes looked on and wailed.  English
law!--up, all, with your cups!--now all together and with a cheer!--drink to the merciful English
law that delivered HER from the English hell!  Thank you, mates, one and all.  I begged, from
house to house--I and the wife--bearing with us the hungry kids--but it was crime to be hungry
in England--so they stripped us and lashed us through three towns.  Drink ye all again to the
merciful English law!--for its lash drank deep of my Mary's blood and its blessed deliverance
came quick.  She lies there, in the potter's field, safe from all harms.  And the kids--well,
whilst the law lashed me from town to town, they starved. Drink, lads--only a drop--a drop
to the poor kids, that never did any creature harm.  I begged again--begged, for a crust, and
got the stocks and lost an ear--see, here bides the stump; I begged again, and here is the
stump of the other to keep me minded of it. And still I begged again, and was sold for a slave--here
on my cheek under this stain, if I washed it off, ye might see the red S the branding-iron
left there!  A SLAVE!  Do you understand that word?  An English SLAVE! --that is he that stands
before ye.  I have run from my master, and when I am found--the heavy curse of heaven fall
on the law of the land that hath commanded it!--I shall hang!" {1}

A ringing voice came through the murky air--

"Thou shalt NOT!--and this day the end of that law is come!"

All turned, and saw the fantastic figure of the little King approaching hurriedly; as it emerged
into the light and was clearly revealed, a general explosion of inquiries broke out--

"Who is it?  WHAT is it?  Who art thou, manikin?"

The boy stood unconfused in the midst of all those surprised and questioning eyes, and answered
with princely dignity--

"I am Edward, King of England."

A wild burst of laughter followed, partly of derision and partly of delight in the excellence
of the joke.  The King was stung.  He said sharply--

"Ye mannerless vagrants, is this your recognition of the royal boon I have promised?"

He said more, with angry voice and excited gesture, but it was lost in a whirlwind of laughter
and mocking exclamations.  'John Hobbs' made several attempts to make himself heard above the
din, and at last succeeded--saying--

"Mates, he is my son, a dreamer, a fool, and stark mad--mind him not--he thinketh he IS the King."

"I AM the King," said Edward, turning toward him, "as thou shalt know to thy cost, in good
time.  Thou hast confessed a murder--thou shalt swing for it."

"THOU'LT betray me?--THOU?  An' I get my hands upon thee--"

"Tut-tut!" said the burley Ruffler, interposing in time to save the King, and emphasising this
service by knocking Hobbs down with his fist, "hast respect for neither Kings NOR Rufflers?
An' thou insult my presence so again, I'll hang thee up myself."  Then he said to his Majesty,
"Thou must make no threats against thy mates, lad; and thou must guard thy tongue from saying
evil of them elsewhere.  BE King, if it please thy mad humour, but be not harmful in it.  Sink
the title thou hast uttered--'tis treason; we be bad men in some few trifling ways, but none
among us is so base as to be traitor to his King; we be loving and loyal hearts, in that regard.
Note if I speak truth.  Now--all together:  'Long live Edward, King of England!'"

"LONG LIVE EDWARD, KING OF ENGLAND!"

The response came with such a thundergust from the motley crew that the crazy building vibrated
to the sound.  The little King's face lighted with pleasure for an instant, and he slightly
inclined his head, and said with grave simplicity--

"I thank you, my good people."

This unexpected result threw the company into convulsions of merriment. When something like
quiet was presently come again, the Ruffler said, firmly, but with an accent of good nature--

"Drop it, boy, 'tis not wise, nor well. He ne'er ceases to hope that something may turn up-- that
something tangible may issue from a world of conjecture.

If he found himself in orders for a Brigade thou would be less surprised
than anyone in the Army.

"Hale him forth, and crown him!"

"Robe him!"

"Sceptre him!"

"Throne him!"

These and twenty other cries broke out at once! and almost before the poor little victim could
draw a breath he was crowned with a tin basin, robed in a tattered blanket, throned upon a
barrel, and sceptred with the tinker's soldering-iron.  Then all flung themselves upon their
knees about him and sent up a chorus of ironical wailings, and mocking supplications, whilst
they swabbed their eyes with their soiled and ragged sleeves and aprons--

"Be gracious to us, O sweet King!"

"Trample not upon thy beseeching worms, O noble Majesty!"

"Pity thy slaves, and comfort them with a royal kick!"

"Cheer us and warm us with thy gracious rays, O flaming sun of sovereignty!"

"Sanctify the ground with the touch of thy foot, that we may eat the dirt and be ennobled!"

"Deign to spit upon us, O Sire, that our children's children may tell of thy princely condescension,
and be proud and happy for ever!"

But the humorous tinker made the 'hit' of the evening and carried off the honours.  Kneeling,
he pretended to kiss the King's foot, and was indignantly spurned; whereupon he went about
begging for a rag to paste over the place upon his face which had been touched by the foot,
saying it must be preserved from contact with the vulgar air, and that he should make his fortune
by going on the highway and exposing it to view at the rate of a hundred shillings a sight.
He made himself so killingly funny that he was the envy and admiration of the whole mangy rabble.

Tears of shame and indignation stood in the little monarch's eyes; and the thought in his heart
was, "Had I offered them a deep wrong they could not be more cruel--yet have I proffered nought
but to do them a kindness --and it is thus they use me for it!"