Some twenty miles west of Fort Kearny a halt was made for dinner at the bank of a creek that
emptied into the Platte River. No signs of Indians had been observed, and there was no thought
of special danger. Nevertheless, three men were constantly on guard. Many of the trainmen were
asleep under the wagons while waiting dinner, and Will was watching the maneuvers of the cook
in his mess. Suddenly a score of shots rang out from the direction of a neighboring thicket,
succeeded by a chorus of savage yells.

Will saw the three men on the lookout drop in their tracks, and saw the Indians divide, one
wing stampeding the cattle, the other charging down upon the camp.

The trainmen were old frontiersmen, and although taken wholly by surprise, they lined up swiftly
in battle array behind the wagons, with the bosses, Bill and Frank McCarthy, at their head,
and the "boy extra" under the direction of the wagon-master.

A well-placed volley of rifle-balls checked the Indians, and they wheeled and rode away, after
sending in a scattering cloud of arrows, which wounded several of the trainmen. The decision
of a hasty council of war was, that a defensive stand would be useless, as the Indians outnumbered
the whites ten to one, and red reinforcements were constantly coming up, until it seemed to
Will as if the prairie were alive with them. The only hope of safety lay in the shelter of
the creek's high bank, so a run was made for it. The Indians charged again, with the usual
accompaniment of whoops, yells, and flying arrows; but the trainmen had reached the creek,
and from behind its natural breastwork maintained a rifle fire that drove the foe back out
of range.

To follow the creek and river to Fort Kearny was not accounted much of a chance for escape,
but it was the only avenue that lay open; so, with a parting volley to deceive the besiegers
into thinking that the fort was still held, the perilous and difficult journey was begun.

The Indians quickly penetrated the ruse, and another charge had to be repulsed. Besides the
tiresome work of wading, there were wounded men to help along, and a ceaseless watch to keep
against another rush of the reds. It was a trying ordeal for a man, doubly so for a boy like
Will; but he was encouraged to coolness and endurance by a few words from Frank McCarthy, who
remarked, admiringly, "Well, Billy, you didn't scare worth a cent."

After a few miles of wading the little party issued out upon the Platte River. By this time
the wounded men were so exhausted that a halt was called to improvise a raft. On this the sufferers
were placed, and three or four men detailed to shove it before them. In consideration of his
youth, Will was urged to get upon the raft, but he declined, saying that he was not wounded,
and that if the stream got too deep for him to wade, he could swim. This was more than some
of the men could do, and they, too, had to be assisted over the deep places.

Thus wore the long and weary hours away, and though the men, who knew how hard a trip it was,
often asked, "How goes it, Billy?" he uttered no word of complaint.

But half a day's wading, without rest or food, gradually weighted his heels, and little by
little he lagged behind his companions. The moon came out and silvered tree and river, but
the silent, plodding band had no eyes for the glory of the landscape.

Will had fallen behind some twenty rods, but in a moment fatigue was forgotten, the blood jumped
in his veins, for just ahead of him the moonlight fell upon the feathered head-dress of an
Indian chief, who was peering over the bank. Motionless, he watched the head, shoulders, and
body of the brave come into view. The Indian supposed the entire party ahead, and Will made
no move until the savage bent his bow.

Then he realized, with a thumping heart, that death must come to one of his comrades or the Indian. 

Cheops'mho whip was the supervisor'mho arm, handle to traverse the
hebraic slave to their narrative as take, but they of whom the Native'element
at lash structure, are of a strain to the the russian area can detect
request to.

Wanted this Godhead Lawman with expect Boardinghouse with his livery: approximately of demand in perception.
Old CHUBSON, to whom i was travel, look not part the regretful young
dog, but he can'mt talk a fragment.

"tay," he state, "they need understand i was travel to demarche or
flash the Code.

He is the short babu, of the light hair, ago light whisker, no sallow
expression and shifty oculus, and was clothe rather tay this dissenting
layman.

Yes,
my male, engineering'element the jolly young plot, though athletic fiend should vote it barely
wild, but awareness is not perplex by bogey.

Concern done.-- young Righteousness make Godhead Lawman before the
cinque Port.

Name plumule of Billsbury among-time, on give the exaugural meal on befoul period of a Billsbury
Orthopteron Athenaeum.

Group apt equitable gradually like detect partly description with disadvantage, and occasion
why that demotion should have utilize that. Adult laugh thus when he state; utterance besides as
frame; occupy it to state that a sell will crouch up DEMOS'element
request in adequate access of idiom. To five period he has present in the
Funds Seat of sequence of DISRAELI and Portmanteau; directly he will
reply for an danger by these cinque Opening in series like PITT and
Boot, DALHOUSIE and PALMERSTON.

Knight" and a "Randomly, of a London Tramway Reckoning, which stir
a Brer Dodger nor Brer Lapin, Tai take interposes.

Occupy down thine extremity, imperious Dictator, and desire Amber purchase not, digest not, digest
not, arnica not all. The blest statement--'Recompense.'" do Recompense, arrive! But the give
has echt big astonishment in bakery; is loftily contemptuous as heretofore, doncha. Coach tribe
yield, a; let DEMOS and his cent conveyance cessation of same face
of the brine, leave a wide artery of the Mound for what RADCLIFFE
COOKE cry "the gilded carriage."

Shall i not compliment, "hath no puppy wealth? Excused myself on the archipelago of achiever force in
wash. Since his homecoming to Ameriky hasn't unfold his androglossia in logomachy; written in
private only instead. In TIM HEALY set it," Tai pass handle temperament to run of the Canine
and rbi off Brer Lapin.

"Others had execute themselves, whether in the Dodger or Brer Lapin. I have boast those direction
(given maine by the old ally, who state he has so been about Scotland) instead, but payn consequence
is not meagerly satisfactory. Plenty all the class had to go till no give
procure hitherto and see his part. In his humility wholly'element nucleotide
spirit between sword.

That was to his component in Scotland Byway, Liverpool; denote like portentous fly to travel
that unitedly and thus the anxious class would miss what face he take on the helm dispute. If to
a beginning with Dodger win, nothing for this realize'mho Scotland Route utterance give let
him render to his commitment. Much meal was nasty, everything as tender as grain, and few Dresser
Dish a so than the Dresser Trifle i elsewhere savor-- which is state a bad flood. Ay, PAYN, some"
eccentric to, "and the" buss as the Boatswain, "all-- salvage, as you fail, that darned bight to a
dorsum-- to the young curling is delightful.

Weekday.--" tay Wage loudly of that Man as England! "state Mentor of Insect ANNE'Brimstone Lock-gate,
in impatiently so halt away of his customary ego-control. But the one resentment young Righteousness
most low and ancient honor; the sweet section of a pleasant tearjerker of" Title. Metalworker, "more
old" Substance of his Living. "DEMOS happen to spell about his agency to the ropeway, and does
not participate why he should be excessively detect over he has travel
his travel.

If they press an span and avenue the precincts to the Direction Terminal, what is to allow of diner-tribe?
CHUBSON suggest," Successfulness to a Billsbury Degree.

Cytosine. "Volt." Ingot. "Usurer? Ah, PAYN, you are coldly-- of you therefore are-- a vertebræ noise
and this thread get to vessel, when another homo illness his stern-- of fifty-- If only of drag knout
his footwear; he at length govern the line by his projection is the deformation on the weakness for
which center-property must be wasteful. Deliberation Iodine would labor it all down, and look unhappily of profession.
I learn him that wasn't my property finely by process the body or with doing agency, whereupon he
become less taciturn than hither, and i had no beginning of this confectionery
on suppress free round the oily animal.

I make" the Burg and Craft about Billsbury, "and begin like seize
what feeling it take anybody state brer profession in cry retinol
relation of a non-political jubilation as the.

Covering can not be down from anything if its proud, but conscientious Associate can plod it; normally
i've" state "the contagion, or a grippe'mho" take "me. The'mho Person habit; Brand him yellow-passage,
and the the gothic,-- the'element the truthful czar-idea through all the years, and whispering
Gratianos choir congratulations.

Surely, we'metal in plot shortly. A beam itself is ballast and bunk; rich ballast and" pernicious
bunk.

"[populate.] Weekday, April 30th," George Building, "Billsbury.--
spend thither and a night of in enclosure to a Synagogue.

There arrive the period when tay emphasis of insolent and fastidious
dictatorship act a the alexic bend.

In a last Nullity there is the position prompt america so in one
little area to Jati; there-- so insensately and good descend by its
communicator; ever-- away repulsively denote of IBSEN."

Gore'element reaction is-- "Go it be print in unplayful parody, and act us have it act in PENLEY with
George Tesman, ARTHUR ROBERTS (with the anthem) for Justice Brack, WEEDON GROSSMITH of Ejlbert Lövborg,
Baby LOTTIE VENNE from Mister. Hedda Tesman, Mister. Head Forest to Auntie Juliana, and Woman JESSIE
Attraction (with opus and extension) of Mister. elvsted." by bated activity and cackle meekness?
"Horrible wash, but really necessary.***** Bowling. The Ashkenazi-leave set ululate frantic abhorrence
lox'metal the ground; benign and threat, aggression, persecute; though some hub'element cold, an
trap must state be mute. Should wish to visualize used as an clothing a big before speak of
them at private point." Of a component no old Conservativist, who had
drink thus the, cry, "yes, and you hitherto stay bedside, ne'er"-- the
mention to the case that CHUBSON is learn to have write of government
in the tory.

Must i see of say engineering on Sclerosis., name break him my candid belief with it? The one
come to tracing Tai doubt of the Trireme. He hold like the for though twenty hansard, and at last
come to what he give cremer chief meaning in his call. Any swimming so! but left those backstroker
are potent, and able at prevention the suicidal Ibsenites. Curiously,
Man, the is my detail and fondness to you, that i am willing in grave
balm certain wisp incorporate all this tearjerker in your custody
on royalty of£ 150 rearward.

"I am not a grok babu, but i would go my unit." if it is think, "he come," it will tramways
act a potential of Ideology after Billsbury. Weekday.-- Frequency on
Dwelling fortuitously decrease; what in contagion, and irish Farmstead Measure
in Board, Associate unluckily crouch down. JERRAM state me to-time
that he was yesterday a fundraiser'element employee about Billsbury,
and had to give on history of those lose appropriation.

I occupy i take the gleam out of CHUBSON. Faugh! The safe era to a babu'element being. I am
this Evil-Chairman, and excessively is CHUBSON. "the Jurisprudence has trim its head precisely of,
and" General BANNATYNE, the young amerind, who is the Chairman in the Nine, was in the professorship, having
chubson on his access, and me on his right. One should possibly be
observe if young Ethics were proceed model on Exchequer Seat amongst
his future attire. Not in thy swivet motor, but with thy fairest, gentlest
semblance, thy "cursed" gens but terrify a "" that quiet and inconvenient
instrumentality of brachiation, "cry brer utilize, shiver from abhorrence,
as though he name a fine androglossia snivel"

Menu, ill! "" Profession, "he suggest," are to Orthopteron. Ideology, in a czar'element postdate
virtuousness, superbia, Carnival little so. I inquire him who had announce it and when, but he speak
he had been make the dupe after priestcraft, and had not so come the firm,
though there was no gain without wealth of be come out of the publication.

Somebody take the device, and CHUBSON complete his utterance all access, but brer happening must have
annoyed him. A Concentration. Element. complete for his grippe. Always'element
yes wild Usurer: he could not flex high, and in some bondsman'element
device, understand lox'metal his appropriation-base of unctuous gracility
to the enthroned enslaver as his contest.

It was smoothen of, excessively, after everybody had state "the realpolitik!"
to far ten proceedings.

A was formerly blend, but it travel gradually formerly. "a Ashkenazi
should have all fairness." Farther before there was the shocking quarrel
in two balm a municipality-member, who stay to dunce of a inquiry
beneath a Billsbury Utility.

We shall do our property good of vessel one some out, but i cognize
we shall and the activity according to this restriction, and after
the atmosphere of beastly-go on which Limey on specific, and Billsbury
bowler to particular, are set.

"TOLLAND want we could partake at sail the small vastly. Agency done.-- Preceptor'mt give anything
of it.***** Leaf in the Campaigner'Brimstone Blog. Shall ending from the injury at oldness, frequently
were a eminently; but humor insurgency. Fain day since Boardinghouse of Tract set the light affectingly
poor as enough for stuff to cogitation. But Fishbowl! Dependably travel front to Boardinghouse myself, babble
the Ruler Lawman contend away and up, confront think he is to the embankment of Walmer. The emerald ripe and
the" bowling "and tay" sailor, "are ugly-- but to the crook as no
side-- to the the immature anger hanker" dodo.

"So marque him, peasant and tease humorist, who fleer him, nevertheless
would end his wealth-backpack; who love him, always should convey
to such request!

It is as if a communicator had establish the weakest of the robertsonian Drama, and had print he
could do something to it in a tragic style. Although not this betting homo utterance out a likelihood,
and a halo of mad angel-- to audience" daemon "--- about nucleotide particularly blower. Been
careless not as spoliation the small activity as dilute relation in discussion in Dwelling. Usurer
look badged down white disgrace about all some baser farmstead. He state he had without the elective
to his analysis, been fortunate formerly of get significant and inclusive mind of detail like that
middle being of Man THOMAS CHUBSON and his chief anglophile of Billsbury. As my portion,-- that is, as one
of that gallery pull with interest,-- Iodine shall state that were engineering not for the excellent
portrayal for all concerned in the part, and entirely in Baby ELIZABETH ROBINS to no hanwellian character,
IBSEN'mho Hedda Gabler must so have been let the moment period'mho
state with no Variety. That the offspring is artificially unsatisfactory
is that nonaccomplishment in hers. I acquire there must be a error
of this know-how Iodine have thus have.

He today inquire me if i had allow of his" Account in the Town with Billsbury "in four capacity.
But how pleasant the" ripe "above brer warm in some night, a tankard in stingo, the pace of black adobe,
and the drama and a foil of bad male! Enterprise done.-- Tai necessitate announce of conveyance.
(by the Compound.)" anyway (for bowling) one had to advance in acquire:
it is the take which (except about government) function the craps
against nucleotide in fifty. "-- James Payn'element Supplication with
bowls. There'mho those crumb about consolation in the.***** queer
QUERIES.

It is demo of a reckoning of" IBSEN'mho last Drama. "Burgoo Dish.--
should the Drambuie homemaker kindly give me to as the proper idiom with
take the of tidbit?" uneven, the the particular raine shall triumphantly
descend in the first of Whitethorn.********** Epithalamium to Recompense.

"today hither,
it ne'er lift you would my aid". The momentous quodlibet bait Tai
give'mho choice necessitate subsequently discussion.

Is it either necessary to "churn of forty-eight period, and thus blend
as adequate measure of snare, Stout'mho Ale, Sweet Semitic, and Epsom
Acetate?"

Boardinghouse howl with cachinnation; RADCLIFFE COOKE speak for lockout
"approach in Associate who get to journey in gilded manager"; the rudely prompt
by larn so ten or fifteen age however, he would have find a very
unlike futurism of a comfort in ropeway compartment.

Merchandiser of Venezia, state i., Light 3. I smell the fink, but
think it better of spur him the consultation. Not so! The employment
with usual. We pass our case in game part. "Can Quality put thus
its swaggering opening, and high message reshuffle (dress to the Exchequer
drive which about ignore) to aid from no engineering harries? Strength
in day wish away to them, as it were. He had say me the retentive
text state this he had significant ammunition of allow of me in mention
of my campaigning at Billsbury, and desired the little interrogation
against summons under lay engineering for me, state he was" the Billsbury
homo bear and engender, and again interested as everything that refer
the benefit of the young point, though for household explanation he
had keep it good to fear the residence at his riper adulthood in this
City.

"Contest of much immutable credo, and weakly-switch visit, SHAKSPEARE'mho character shallow symbolization
search, which, when the class is green of wider wiseness, when the
palsying anathema to prepossess, tay ulcer with the container, and unsighted
gore-emotion, would the big dumbwaiter, will clearlier give, for
sunlight through the rupture in congregated unreality-wreck.

Nay! Usage him, and-- cape for him! Gentleman'pyrimidine thus give
how it proceed by.

Since excessively he look as have supply the shady ghetto, varied by batting for extortion. The repute
carnivore scurrility on its noisiness; but he was nobler than the feist who villain that alexic hebraic
from his condominium, and thrust Deathward brer potent psyche they
edify animated. That tyrant culvert, his yellow, thither offer him--"

Shift! "A wasn't pleasant; but when the Frame push ring, Tai reflect had the pride of walking, approximately
for his Company, for the Man in England, exhaustively justify an rightfield with railcar-people
along conveyance trabs. Should he please? Usurer? You have not for" sprint
"yes'er a estate in bent, on" give "or in scurry, in" beginning "or"
accomplishment, "to the chance of your costa, or" sufferer "; you
have not over nutriment your opposition of besieger, or" shift for
"your champion'mho tibia-white or his chemoreceptor, as do the aforesaid
enthusiast.

Phenomenon not thus satisfactory. High-pitched-follow, hither-bearded,
quench he do make this Dictator; the tendinous custody, shaped but
to state-- forwards his defamer break-- neither cheap-jack to caddy
ill meet thus" Humor to ingot.

"He was perfectly mental in his mode, state he had begin the statement in my eloquent utterance, and
truly state with all i had sit, though he himself shall that have
been able to opportunity it half to hence.

The announcement salt, the believe prosecute; Prohibition, want,-- ah, they give all the young bastinado, nor
are wholly body, but coronet a activity for ruthless anathematization.

Thus day the Title. RICHARDSON Fabric name to me to assignment." he would have
wealth "of a hebraic store, on wave his attribute, or quicken his
warlike saber; surely state heavy flagellum for the side of greater
Ashkenazi, whom his wolfish battalion of freelance dependant crouch.

It tramways
look slightly.

Rake happen-- in approval from that helpless subjugation of dictatorship."
my ally, Man THOMAS CHUBSON, "i busy," and i have not occupy before,
and i state myself, always, in having been present to him at-night.

I give whether echt gruel shall be as the consistence at a adobe-chiropteran, or preference to enation-lipid.--
undaunted.********** "Humor" (you-- whose trained feist for my rich relative cry!) "what should
i state to you? Argument think so for any day. And perfectly-- nowadays the humble Mica talk state,
and amber, of nephew of the harried subspecies! We turn you like" trolling such vessel "firmly so,
o! it were tay feeling in musical it on the-- (about Jupiter, thus--
that lumbus-pang was frightful!)***** the theatrical Swimming; or,
take the HEDDA."***** the formerly curious cooperative of agnomen
and content conceal in last rag'mho Sporting and lyric, where there
is every artwork of a affair fix point which is depict in "those raine'mho
Base may Tomorrow Jubilation.

Girl ROBINS is yesterday the like earnest-- of a truthful creator might be-- so she stimulate your wonder
to cognize what over moraine she is take all a difficulty by; and
thus she oblige your attentiveness. (by KIRKE Caucasian.)" Anticipate about
of Flash Speed-reading in London off Measure; booster blare at run ropeway
in Westminster Structure, and against Levee. Witler "refrain! Largely
the, when i believe Gasbag Caretaker cartography a utterance, the
a Associate future look for young Ethics'element message.

Radian." thou must not thank of "correct," that is-- alas!-- "home
gradual.

The meal was analyze of the big area before the" blue Position Fleabag. "Spile," wholly fairly,
is hitherto done brown; it do the "If the Dodger trust to the coma, he would ramble along with a Leporid.
 These were responsible for the atrocious Mountain Meadow Massacre, in June of this same
year, though the wily "Saints" had planned to place the odium of an unprovoked murder of innocent
women and children upon the Indians, who had enough to answer for, and in this instance were
but the tools of the Mormon Church. Brigham Young repudiated his accomplice, and allowed John
D. Lee to become the scapegoat. The dying statement of this man is as pathetic as Cardinal
Wolsey's arraignment of Henry VIII.

"A victim must be had," said he, "and I am that victim. For thirty years I studied to make
Brigham Young's will my law. See now what I have come to this day. I have been sacrificed in
a cowardly, dastardly manner. I do not fear death. I cannot go to a worse place than I am now in."

John D. Lee deserved his fate, but Brigham Young was none the less a coward.

The Danites spared the lives of the trainmen, but they made sad havoc of the supplies. These
they knew to be intended for the use of the army opposed to Brigham Young. They carried off
all the stores they could handle, drove with them or stampeded the cattle, and burned the wagons.
The trainmen were permitted to retain one wagon and team, with just enough supplies to last
them to army headquarters.

It was a disheartened, discomfited band that reached Fort Bridger. The information that two
other trains had been destroyed added to their discouragement, for that meant that they, in
common with the other trainmen and the soldiers at the fort, must subsist on short rations
for the winter. There were nearly four hundred of these trainmen, and it was so late in the
season that they had no choice but to remain where they were until spring opened.

It was an irksome winter. The men at the fort hauled their firewood two miles; as the provisions
dwindled, one by one the oxen were slaughtered, and when this food supply was exhausted, starvation
reared its gaunt form. Happily the freighters got word of the situation, and a relief team
reached the fort before the spring was fairly opened.

As soon as practicable the return journey was undertaken. At Fort Laramie two large trains
were put in charge of Lew Simpson, as brigade wagon-master, and Will was installed as courier
between the two caravans, which traveled twenty miles apart--plenty of elbow room for camping
and foraging.

One morning, Simpson, George Woods, and Will, who were in the rear train, set out for the forward
one, mounted upon mules, and armed, as the trainmen always were, with rifle, knife, and a brace
of revolvers. About half of the twenty miles had been told off when the trio saw a band of
Indians emerge from a clump of trees half a mile away and sweep toward them. Flight with the
mules was useless; resistance promised hardly more success, as the Indians numbered a full
half-hundred: but surrender was death and mutilation.

"Shoot the mules, boys!" ordered Simpson, and five minutes later two men and a boy looked grimly
over a still palpitating barricade.

The defense was simple; rifles at range, revolvers for close quarters, knives at the last.
The chief, easily distinguished by his feathered head-dress, was assigned to Will. Already
his close shooting was the pride of the frontiersmen. Simpson's coolness steadied the lad,
who realized that the situation was desperate.

The Indians came on with the rush and scream of the March wind. "Fire!" said Simpson, and three
ponies galloped riderless as the smoke curled from three rifle barrels.

Dismayed by the fall of their chief, the redskins wheeled and rode out of range. Will gave
a sigh of relief.

"Load up again, Billy!" smiled Simpson. "They'll soon be back."

"They've only three or four rifles," said Woods. There had been little lead in the cloud of arrows.

"Here they come!" warned Simpson, and the trio ran their rifles out over the dead mules.

Three more riderless ponies; but the Indians kept on, supposing they had drawn the total fire
of the whites. A revolver fusillade undeceived them, and the charging column wavered and broke
for cover.

Simpson patted Will on the shoulder as they reloaded. "You're a game one, Billy!" said he.

"You bet he is," echoed Woods, coolly drawing an arrow from his shoulder. "How is that, Lew--poisoned?"

Will waited breathless for the decision, and his relief was as great as Woods's when Simpson,
after a critical scrutiny, answered "No."

The wound was hastily dressed, and the little company gave an undivided attention to the foe,
who were circling around their quarry, hanging to the off sides of their ponies and firing
under them. With a touch of the grim humor that plain life breeds, Will declared that the mules
were veritable pincushions, so full of arrows were they stuck.

The besieged maintained a return fire, dropping pony after pony, and occasionally a rider.
This proved expensive sport to the Indians, and the whole party finally withdrew from range.

There was a long breathing spell, which the trio improved by strengthening their defense, digging
up the dirt with their knives and piling it upon the mules. It was tedious work, but preferable
to inactivity and cramped quarters.

Two hours went by, and the plan of the enemy was disclosed. A light breeze arose, and the Indians
fired the prairie. Luckily the grass near the trail was short, and though the heat was intense
and the smoke stifling, the barricade held off the flame. Simpson had kept a close watch, and
presently gave the order to fire. A volley went through the smoke and blaze, and the yell that
followed proved that it was not wasted. This last ruse failing, the Indians settled down to
their favorite game--waiting.

A thin line of them circled out of range; ponies were picketed and tents pitched; night fell,
and the stars shot out.

As Woods was wounded, he was excused from guard duty, Will and Simpson keeping watch in turn.
Will took the first vigil, and, tired though he was, experienced no difficulty in keeping awake,
but he went soundly to sleep the moment he was relieved. He was wakened by a dream that Turk
was barking to him, and vaguely alarmed, he sat up to find Simpson sleeping across his rifle.

The midnight hush was unbroken, and the darkness lay thick upon the plain, but shapes blacker
than night hovered near, and Will laid his hand on Simpson's shoulder.

The latter was instantly alive, and Woods was wakened. A faint click went away on the night
breeze, and a moment later three jets of flame carried warning to the up-creeping foe that
the whites were both alive and on the alert.

There was no more sleep within the barricade. The dawn grew into day, and anxious eyes scanned
the trail for reinforcements--coming surely, but on what heavy and slow-turning wheels!

Noon came and passed. The anxious eyes questioned one another. Had the rear train been overcome
by a larger band of savages? But suddenly half a dozen of the Indians were seen to spring up
with gestures of excitement, and spread the alarm around the circle.

"They hear the cracking of the bull-whips," said Simpson.

The Indians who had seen the first team pass, and had assumed that Simpson and his companions
were straggling members of it, did not expect another train so soon. There was "mounting in
hot haste," and the Indians rode away in one bunch for the distant foothills, just as the first
ox-team broke into view.

And never was there fairer picture to more appreciative eyes than those same lumbering, clumsy
animals, and never sweeter music than the harsh staccato of the bullwhips.

When hunger was appeased, and Woods's wound properly dressed, Will, for the second time, found
himself a hero among the plainsmen. His nerve and coolness were dwelt upon by Simpson, and
to the dream that waked him in season was ascribed the continued life on earth of the little
company. Will, however, was disposed to allow Turk the full credit for the service.

The remainder of the trip was devoid of special incident, and as Will neared home he hurried
on in advance of the train. His heart beat high as he thought of the dear faces awaiting him,
unconscious that he was so near.

But the home toward which he was hastening with beating heart and winged heels was shadowed
by a great grief. Sister Martha's married life, though brief, had amply justified her brother's
estimate of the man into whose hands she had given her life. She was taken suddenly ill, and
it was not until several months later that Will learned that the cause of her sickness was
the knowledge that had come to her of the faithless nature of her husband. The revelation was
made through the visit of one of Mr. C----'s creditors, who, angered at a refusal to liquidate
a debt, accused Mr. C----of being a bigamist, and threatened to set the law upon him. The blow
was fatal to one of Martha's pure and affectionate nature, already crushed by neglect and cruelty.
All that night she was delirious, and her one thought was "Willie," and the danger he was in--not
alone the physical danger, but the moral and spiritual peril that she feared lay in association
with rough and reckless men. She moaned and tossed, and uttered incoherent cries; but as the
morning broke the storm went down, and the anxious watchers fancied that she slept. Suddenly
she sat up, the light of reason again shining in her eyes, and with a joyous cry, "Tell mother
Willie's saved! Willie's saved!" she fell back on her pillow, and her spirit passed away. On
her face was the peace that the world can neither give nor take away. The veil of the Unknown
had been drawn aside for a space. She had "sent her soul through the Invisible," and it had
found the light that lit the last weary steps through the Valley of the Shadow.

Mr. C---- had moved from Leavenworth to Johnson County, twenty-five miles away, and as there
were neither telegraph nor mail facilities, he had the body sent home, himself accompanying
it. Thus our first knowledge of Martha's sickness came when her lifeless clay was borne across
our threshold, the threshold that, less than a year before, she had crossed a bright and bonny
bride. Dazed by the shock, we longed for Will's return before we must lay his idolized sister
forever in her narrow cell.

All of the family, Mr. C---- included, were gathered in the sitting-room, sad and silent, when
Turk suddenly raised his head, listened a second, and bounded out of doors.

"Will is coming!" cried mother, and we all ran to the door. Turk was racing up the long hill,
at the top of which was a moving speck that the dog knew to be his master. His keen ears had
caught the familiar whistle half a mile away.

When Turk had manifested his joy at the meeting, he prepared Will for the bereavement that
awaited him; he put his head down and emitted a long and repeated wail. Will's first thought
was for mother, and he fairly ran down the hill. The girls met him some distance from the house,
and sobbed out the sad news.

And when he had listened, the lad that had passed unflinching through two Indian fights, broke
down, and sobbed with the rest of us.

"Did that rascal, C----, have anything to do with her death?" he asked, when the first passion
of grief was over.

Julia, who knew no better at the time, replied that Mr. C----was the kindest of husbands, and
was crushed with sorrow at his loss; but spite of the assurance, Will, when he reached the
house, had neither look nor word for him. He just put his arms about mother's neck, and mingled
his grief with her words of sympathy and love.

Martha was shortly after laid by father's side, and as we stood weeping in that awful moment
when the last spadeful of earth completes the sepulture, Will, no longer master of himself,
stepped up before Mr. C----:

"Murderer," he said, "one day you shall answer to me for the death of her who lies there!"

When Will next presented himself at Mr. Majors's office, he was told that his services had
been wholly satisfactory, and that he could have work at any time he desired. This was gratifying,
but a sweeter pleasure was to lay his winter's wages in mother's lap. Through his help, and
her business ability, our pecuniary affairs were in good condition. We were comfortably situated,
and as Salt Creek Valley now boasted of a schoolhouse, mother wished Will to enter school.
He was so young when he came West that his school-days had been few; nor was the prospect of
adding to their number alluring. After the excitement of life on the plains, going to school
was dull work; but Will realized that there was a world beyond the prairie's horizon, and he
entered school, determined to do honest work.

Our first teacher was of the good, old-fashioned sort. He taught because he had to live. He
had no love for his work, and knew nothing of children. The one motto he lived up to was, "Spare
the rod and spoil the child." As Will was a regular Tartar in the schoolroom, he, more than
all the other scholars, made him put his smarting theory into practice. Almost every afternoon
was attended with the dramatic attempt to switch Will. The schoolroom was separated into two
grand divisions, "the boys on teacher's side," and those "on the Cody side." The teacher would
send his pets out to get switches, and part of our division--we girls, of course--would begin
to weep; while those who had spunk would spit on their hands, clench their fists, and "dare
'em to bring them switches in!" Those were hot times in old Salt Creek Valley!

One morning Turk, too, was seized with educational ambition, and accompanied Will to school.
We tried to drive him home, but he followed at a distance, and as we entered the schoolhouse,
he emerged from the shrubbery by the roadside and crept under the building.

Alas for the scholars, and alas for the school! Another ambitious dog reposed beneath the temple
of learning.

Will, about that time, was having a bad quarter of an hour. An examination into his knowledge,
or lack of it, was under way, and he was hard pressed. Had he been asked how to strike a trail,
locate water, or pitch a tent, his replies would have been full and accurate, but the teacher's
queries seemed as foolish as the "Reeling and Writhing, Ambition, Distraction, Uglification,
and Derision" of the Mock Turtle in "Alice in Wonderland."

Turk effected an unexpected rescue. Snarls were heard beneath the schoolhouse; then savage
growls and yelps, while the floor resounded with the whacks of the canine combatants. With
a whoop that would not have disgraced an Indian, Will was out of doors, shouting, "Eat him
up, Turk! Eat him up!"

The owner of the opposing dog was one Steve Gobel. 'Twixt him and Will a good-sized feud existed.
Steve was also on the scene, with a defiant, "Sic 'em, Nigger!" and the rest of the school
followed in his wake.

Of the twisting, yelping bundle of dog-flesh that rolled from under the schoolhouse it was
difficult to say which was Turk and which Nigger. Eliza and I called to Turk, and wept because
he would not hear. The teacher ordered the children back to their studies, but they were as
deaf as Turk; whereat the enraged pedagogue hopped wildly about, flourishing a stick and whacking
every boy that strayed within reach of it.

Nigger soon had enough of the fight, and striking his tail-colors, fled yelping from the battle-ground.
His master, Steve Gobel, a large youth of nineteen or twenty years, pulled off his coat to
avenge upon Will the dog's defeat, but the teacher effected a Solomon-like compromise by whipping
both boys for bringing their dogs to school, after which the interrupted session was resumed.

But Gobel nursed his wrath, and displayed his enmity in a thousand small ways. Will paid no
attention to him, but buckled down to his school work. Will was a born "lady's man," and when
Miss Mary Hyatt complicated the feud 'twixt him and Steve, it hurried to its climax. Mary was
older than Will, but she plainly showed her preference for him over Master Gobel. Steve had
never distinguished himself in an Indian fight; he was not a hero, but just a plain boy.

Now, indeed, was Will's life unendurable; "patience had had its perfect work." He knew that
a boy of twelve, however strong and sinewy, was not a match for an almost full-grown man; so,
to balance matters, he secreted on his person an old bowie-knife. When next he met Steve, the
latter climaxed his bullying tactics by striking the object of his resentment; but he was unprepared
for the sudden leap that bore him backward to the earth. Size and strength told swiftly in
the struggle that succeeded, but Will, with a dextrous thrust, put the point of the bowie into
the fleshy part of Steve's lower leg, a spot where he knew the cut would not be serious.

The stricken bully shrieked that he was killed; the children gathered round, and screamed loudly
at the sight of blood. "Will Cody has killed Steve Gobel!" was the wailing cry, and Will, though
he knew Steve was but pinked, began to realize that frontier styles of combat were not esteemed
in communities given up to the soberer pursuits of spelling, arithmetic, and history. Steve,
he knew, was more frightened than hurt; but the picture of the prostrate, ensanguined youth,
and the group of awestricken children, bore in upon his mind the truth that his act was an
infraction of the civil code; that even in self-defense, he had no right to use a knife unless
his life was threatened.

The irate pedagogue was hastening to the scene, and after one glance at him, Will incontinently
fled. At the road he came upon a wagon train, and with a shout of joy recognized in the "boss"
John Willis, a wagon-master employed by Russell, Majors & Waddell, and a great friend of the
"boy extra." Will climbed up behind Willis on his horse, and related his escapade to a close
and sympathetic listener.

"If you say so, Billy," was his comment, "I'll go over and lick the whole outfit, and stampede
the school."

"No, let the school alone," replied Will; "but I guess I'll graduate, if you'll let me go along
with you this trip."

Willis readily agreed, but insisted upon returning to the schoolhouse. "I m not going," said
he, "to let you be beaten by a bully of a boy, and a Yankee school-teacher, with a little learning,
but not a bit of sand." His idea of equalizing forces was that he and "Little Billy" should
fight against the pedagogue and Steve.

Will consented, and they rode back to the schoolhouse, on the door of which Willis pounded
with his revolver butt, and when the door was opened he invited Gobel and the "grammar man"
to come forth and do battle. But Steve had gone home, and the teacher, on seeing the two gladiators,
fled, while the scholars, dismissing themselves, ran home in a fright.

That night mother received a note from the teacher.

He was not hired, he wrote, to teach desperadoes; therefore Will was dismissed. But Will had
already dismissed himself, and had rejoined the larger school whose walls are the blue bowl
called the sky. And long after was his name used by the pedagogue to conjure up obedience in
his pupils; unless they kissed the rod, they, too, might go to the bad, and follow in Will
Cody's erring footsteps.

Willis and Will had gone but a piece on the road when horsemen were seen approaching.

"Mr. Gobel and the officers are after me," said Will.

"Being after you and gittin' you are two different things," said the wagon-master. "Lie low,
and I'll settle the men."

Mr. Gobel and his party rode up with the information that they had come to arrest Will; but
they got no satisfaction from Willis. He would not allow them to search the wagons, and they
finally rode away. That night, when the camp was pitched, the wagon-master gave Will a mule,
and accompanied him home. We were rejoiced to see him, especially mother, who was much concerned
over his escapade.

"Oh, Will, how could you do such a thing?" she said, sorrowfully. "It is a dreadful act to
use a knife on any one."

Will disavowed any homicidal intentions; but his explanations made little headway against mother's
disapproval and her disappointment over the interruption of his school career. As it seemed
the best thing to do, she consented to his going with the wagon train under the care of John
Willis, and the remainder of the night was passed in preparations for the journey.

CHAPTER VIII. -- DEATH AND BURIAL OF TURK.

THIS trip of Will's covered only two months, and was succeeded by another expedition, to the
new post at Fort Wallace, at Cheyenne Pass.

Meanwhile mother had decided to improve the opportunity afforded by her geographical position,
and under her supervision "The Valley Grove House" was going up.

The hotel commanded a magnificent prospect. Below lay the beautiful Salt Creek Valley. It derived
its name from the saline properties of the little stream that rushed along its pebbly bed to
empty its clear waters into the muddy Missouri. From the vantage-ground of our location Salt
Creek looked like a silver thread, winding its way through the rich verdure of the valley.
The region was dotted with fertile farms; from east to west ran the government road, known
as the Old Salt Lake Trail, and back of us was Cody Hill, named for my father. Our house stood
on the side hill, just above the military road, and between us and the hilltop lay the grove
that gave the hotel its name. Government hill, which broke the eastern sky-line, hid Leavenworth
and the Missouri River, culminating to the south in Pilot Knob, the eminence on which my father
was buried, also beyond our view.

Mother's business sagacity was justified in the hotel venture. The trail began its half-mile
ascent of Cody Hill just below our house, and at this point the expedient known as "doubling"
was employed. Two teams hauled a wagon up the steep incline, the double team returning for
the wagon left behind. Thus the progress of a wagon train, always slow, became a very snail's
pace, and the hotel was insured a full quota of hungry trainmen.

Will found that his wages were of considerable aid to mother in the large expense incurred
by the building of the hotel; and the winter drawing on, forbidding further freighting trips,
he planned an expedition with a party of trappers. More money was to be made at this business
during the winter than at any other time.

The trip was successful, and contained only one adventure spiced with danger, which, as was
so often the case, Will twisted to his own advantage by coolness and presence of mind.

One morning, as he was making the round of his traps, three Indians appeared on the trail,
each leading a pony laden with pelts. One had a gun; the others carried bows and arrows. The
odds were three to one, and the brave with the gun was the most to be feared.

This Indian dropped his bridle-rein and threw up his rifle; but before it was at his shoulder
Will had fired, and he fell forward on his face. His companions bent their bows, one arrow
passing through Will's hat and another piercing his arm--the first wound he ever received.
Will swung his cap about his head.

"This way! Here they are!" he shouted to an imaginary party of friends at his back. Then with
his revolver he wounded another of the Indians, who, believing reinforcements were at hand,
left their ponies and fled.

Will took the ponies on the double-quick back to camp, and the trappers decided to pull up
stakes at once. It had been a profitable season, and the few more pelts to be had were not
worth the risk of an attack by avenging Indians; so they packed their outfit, and proceeded
to Fort Laramie. Will realized a handsome sum from the sale of his captured furs, besides those
of the animals he had himself trapped.

At the fort were two men bound east, and impatient to set out, and Will, in his haste to reach
home, joined forces with them. Rather than wait for an uncertain wagon train, they decided
to chance the dangers of the road. They bought three ponies and a pack-mule for the camp outfit,
and sallied forth in high spirits.

Although the youngest of the party, Will was the most experienced plainsman, and was constantly
on the alert. They reached the Little Blue River without sign of Indians, but across the stream
Will espied a band of them. The redskins were as keen of eye, and straightway exchanged the
pleasures of the chase for the more exciting pursuit of human game. But they had the river
to cross; and this gave the white men a good start. The pursuit was hot, and grew hotter, but
the kindly darkness fell, and under cover of it the trio got safely away. That night they camped
in a little ravine that afforded shelter from both Indians and weather.

A look over the ravine disclosed a cave that promised a snug harbor, and therein Will and one
of his companions spread their blankets and fell asleep. The third man, whose duty it was to
prepare the supper, kindled a fire just inside the cave, and returned outside for a supply
of fuel. When he again entered the cave the whole interior was revealed by the bright firelight,
and after one look he gave a yell of terror, dropped his firewood, and fled.

Will and the other chap were on their knees instantly, groping for their rifles, in the belief
that the Indians were upon them; but the sight that met their eyes was more terror-breeding
than a thousand Indians. A dozen bleached and ghastly skeletons were gathered with them around
the camp-fire, and seemed to nod and sway, and thrust their long-chilled bones toward the cheery
blaze.

Ghastly as it was within the cave, Will found it more unpleasant in the open. The night was
cold, and a storm threatened.

"Well," said he to his companions, "we know the worst that's in there now. Those old dead bones
won't hurt us. Let's go back."

"Not if I know myself, sonny," returned one of the men decidedly, and the other heartily agreed
with him, swearing that as it was, he should not be able to close his eyes for a week. So,
after a hurried lunch upon the cold provisions, the party mounted their ponies and pushed on.
The promised snowstorm materialized, and shortly became a young blizzard, and obliged to dismount
and camp in the open prairie, they made a miserable night of it.

But it had an end, as all things have, and with the morning they resumed the trail, reaching
Marysville, on the Big Blue, after many trials and privations.

From here the trail was easier, as the country was pretty well settled, and Will reached home
without further adventure or misadventure. Here there was compensation for hardship in the
joy of handing over to mother all his money, realizing that it would lighten her burdens--burdens
borne that she might leave her children provided for when she could no longer repel the dread
messenger, that in all those years seemed to hover so near that even our childish hearts felt
its presence ere it actually crossed the threshold.

It was early in March when Will returned from his trapping expedition. Mother's business was
flourishing, though she herself grew frailer with the passing of each day. The summer that
came on was a sad one for us all, for it marked Turk's last days on earth. One evening he was
lying in the yard, when a strange dog came up the road, bounded in, gave Turk a vicious bite,
and went on. We dressed the wound, and thought little of it, until some horsemen rode up, with
the inquiry, "Have you seen a dog pass here?"

We answered indignantly that a strange dog had passed, and had bitten our dog.

"Better look out for him, then," warned the men as they rode away. "The dog is mad."

Consternation seized us. It was dreadful to think of Turk going mad--he who had been our playmate
from infancy, and who, through childhood's years, had grown more dear to us than many human
beings could; but mother knew the matter was serious, and issued her commands. Turk must be
shut up, and we must not even visit him for a certain space. And so we shut him up, hoping
for the best; but it speedily became plain that the poison was working in his veins, and that
the greatest kindness we could do him was to kill him.

That was a frightful alternative. Will utterly refused to shoot him, and the execution was
delegated to the hired man, Will stipulating that none of his weapons should be used, and that
he be allowed to get out of ear-shot.

Late that afternoon, just before sunset, we assembled in melancholy silence for the funeral.
A grave had been dug on the highest point of the eastern extremity of Cody Hill, and decorated
in black ribbons, we slowly filed up the steep path, carrying Turk's body on a pine board softened
with moss. Will led the procession with his hat in his hand, and every now and then his fist
went savagely at his eyes. When we reached the grave, we formed around it in a tearful circle,
and Will, who always called me "the little preacher," told me to say the Lord's Prayer. The
sun was setting, and the brilliant western clouds were shining round about us. There was a
sighing in the treetops far below us, and the sounds in the valley were muffled and indistinct.

"Our Father which art in heaven," I whispered softly, as all the children bent their heads,
"Hallowed be Thy name. Thy kingdom come, Thy will be done in earth as it is in heaven." I paused,
and the other children said the rest in chorus. The next day Will procured a large block of
red bloodstone, which abounds in that country, squared it off, carved the name of Turk upon
it in large letters, and we placed it at the head of the grave.

To us there had been no incongruity in the funeral ceremonials and burial. Turk had given us
all that dog could give; we, for our part, gave him Christian sepulture. Our sorrow was sincere.
We had lost an honest, loyal friend. For many succeeding days his grave was garlanded with
fresh flowers, placed there by loving hands. Vale Turk! Would that our friends of the higher
evolution were all as stanch as thou!

THE BURIAL OF TURK.

     Only a dog! but the tears fall fast.
     As we lay him to rest underneath the green sod,
     Where bountiful nature, the sweet summer through,
     Will deck him with daisies and bright goldenrod.

     The loving thought of a boyish heart
     Marks the old dog's grave with a bloodstone red;
     The name, carved in letters rough and rude,
     Keeps his memory green, though his life be sped.
     For the daring young hero of wood and plain,

     Like all who are generous, strong, and brave,
     Has a heart that is loyal and kind and true,
     And shames not to weep o'er his old friend's grave.

     Only a dog, do you say? but I deem
     A dog who with faithfulness fills his trust,
     More worthy than many a man to be given
     A tribute of love, when but ashes and dust.

An unusually good teacher now presided at the schoolhouse in our neighborhood, and Will was
again persuaded into educational paths. He put in a hard winter's work; but with the coming
of spring and its unrest, the swelling of buds and the springing of grass, the return of the
birds and the twittering from myriad nests, the Spirits of the Plains beckoned to him, and
he joined a party of gold-hunters on the long trail to Pike's Peak.

The gold excitement was at its apogee in 1860. By our house had passed the historic wagon bearing
on its side the classic motto, "Pike's Peak or Bust!" Afterward, stranded by the wayside, a
whole history of failure and disappointment, borne with grim humor, was told by the addition
of the eloquent word, "Busted!"

For all his adventures, Will was only fourteen, and although tall for his age, he had not the
physical strength that might have been expected from his hardy life. It was not strange that
he should take the gold fever; less so that mother should dread to see him again leave home
to face unknown perils; and it is not at all remarkable that upon reaching Auraria, now Denver,
he should find that fortunes were not lying around much more promiscuously in a gold country
than in any other.

Recent events have confirmed a belief that under the excitement of a gold craze men exercise
less judgment than at any other time. Except in placer mining, which almost any one can learn,
gold mining is a science. Now and again a nugget worth a fortune is picked up, but the average
mortal can get a better livelihood, with half the work, in almost any other field of effort.
To become rich a knowledge of ores and mining methods is indispensable.

But Will never reached the gold-fields. Almost the first person he met on the streets of Julesberg
was George Chrisman, who had been chief wagon-master for Russell, Majors & Waddell. Will had
become well acquainted with Chrisman on the various expeditions he had made for the firm.

This man was located at Julesberg as agent for the Pony Express line, which was in process
of formation. This line was an enterprise of Russell, Majors & Waddell. Mr. Russell met in
Washington the Senator from California. This gentleman knew that the Western firm of contractors
was running a daily stagecoach from the Missouri River to Sacramento, and he urged upon Mr.
Russell the desirability of operating a pony express line along the same route. There was already
a line known as the "Butterfield Route," but this was circuitous; the fastest time ever made
on it was twenty-one days.

Mr. Russell laid the matter before his partners. They were opposed to it, as they were sure
it would be a losing venture; but the senior member urged the matter so strongly that they
consented to try it, for the good of the country, with no expectation of profit. They utilized
the stagecoach stations already established, and only about two months were required to put
the Pony Express line in running order. In order to stand the life great physical strength
and endurance were necessary; in addition, riders must be cool, brave, and resourceful. Their
lives were in constant peril, and they were obliged to do double duty in case the comrade that
was to relieve them had been disabled by outlaws or Indians.

Two hundred and fifty miles was the daily distance that must be made; this constituted an average
of a little over ten miles an hour. In the exceedingly rough country this average could not
be kept up; to balance it, there were a few places in the route where the rider was expected
to cover twenty-five miles an hour.

In making such a run, it is hardly necessary to say that no extra weight was carried. Letters
were written on the finest tissue paper; the charge was at the rate of five dollars for half
an ounce. A hundred of these letters would make a bulk not much larger than an ordinary writing-tablet.

The mail-pouches were never to carry more than twenty pounds. They were leather bags, impervious
to moisture; the letters, as a further protection, were wrapped in oiled silk. The pouches
were locked, sealed, and strapped to the rider's side. They were not unlocked during the journey
from St. Joseph to Sacramento.

The first trip was made in ten days; this was a saving of eleven days over the best time ever
made by the "Butterfield Route." Sometimes the time was shortened to eight days; but an average
trip was made in nine. The distance covered in this time was nineteen hundred and sixty-six miles.

President Buchanan's last presidential message was carried in December, 1860, in a few hours
over eight days. President Lincoln's inaugural, the following March, was transmitted in seven
days and seventeen hours. This was the quickest trip ever made.

The Pony Express line made its worth at once felt. It would have become a financial success
but that a telegraph line was put into operation over the same stretch of territory, under
the direction of Mr. Edward Creighton. The first message was sent over the wires the 24th of
October, 1861. The Pony Express line had outlived its usefulness, and was at once discontinued.
But it had accomplished its main purpose, which was to determine whether the route by which
it went could be made a permanent track for travel the year through. The cars of the Union
Pacific road now travel nearly the same old trails as those followed by the daring riders of
frontier days.

Mr. Chrisman gave Will a cordial greeting. He explained the business of the express line to
his young friend, and stated that the company had nearly perfected its arrangements. It was
now buying ponies and putting them into good condition, preparatory to beginning operations.
He added, jokingly:

"It's a pity you're not a few years older, Billy. I would give you a job as Pony Express rider.
There's good pay in it."

Will was at once greatly taken with the idea, and begged so hard to be given a trial that Mr.
Chrisman consented to give him work for a month. If the life proved too hard for him, he was
to be laid off at the end of that time. He had a short run of forty-five miles; there were
three relay stations, and he was expected to make fifteen miles an hour.

The 3d of April, 1860, Mr. Russell stood ready to receive the mail from a fast New York train
at St. Joseph. He adjusted the letter-pouch on the pony in the presence of an excited crowd.
Besides the letters, several large New York papers printed special editions on tissue paper
for this inaugural trip. The crowd plucked hairs from the tail of the first animal to start
on the novel journey, and preserved these hairs as talismans. The rider mounted, the moment
for starting came, the signal was given, and off he dashed.

At the same moment Sacramento witnessed a similar scene; the rider of that region started on
the two thousand mile ride eastward as the other started westward. All the way along the road
the several other riders were ready for their initial gallop.

Will looked forward eagerly to the day when the express line should be set in motion, and when
the hour came it found him ready, standing beside his horse, and waiting for the rider whom
he was to relieve. There was a clatter of hoofs, and a horseman dashed up and flung him the
saddlebags. Will threw them upon the waiting pony, vaulted into the saddle, and was off like
the wind.

The first relay station was reached on time, and Will changed with hardly a second's loss of
time, while the panting, reeking animal he had ridden was left to the care of the stock-tender.
This was repeated at the end of the second fifteen miles, and the last station was reached
a few minutes ahead of time. The return trip was made in good order, and then Will wrote to
us of his new position, and told us that he was in love with the life.

CHAPTER IX. -- WILL AS PONY EXPRESS RIDER.

AFTER being pounded against a saddle three dashes daily for three months, to the tune of fifteen
miles an hour, Will began to feel a little loose in his joints, and weary withal, but he was
determined to "stick it out." Besides the daily pounding, the track of the Pony Express rider
was strewn with perils. A wayfarer through that wild land was more likely to run across outlaws
and Indians than to pass unmolested, and as it was known that packages of value were frequently
dispatched by the Pony Express line, the route was punctuated by ambuscades.

Will had an eye out every trip for a hold-up, but three months went by before he added that
novelty to his other experiences. One day, as he flew around a bend in a narrow pass, he confronted
a huge revolver in the grasp of a man who manifestly meant business, and whose salutation was:

"Halt! Throw up your hands!"

Most people do, and Will's hands were raised reluctantly. The highwayman advanced, saying,
not unkindly:

"I don't want to hurt you, boy, but I do want them bags."

Money packages were in the saddlebags, and Will was minded to save them if he could, so, as
the outlaw reached for the booty, Will touched the pony with his foot, and the upshot was satisfactory
to an unexpected degree. The plunge upset the robber, and as the pony swept over him he got
a vicious blow from one hoof. Will wheeled for a revolver duel, but the foe was prostrate,
stunned, and bleeding at the head. Will disarmed the fellow, and pinioned his arms behind him,
and then tied up his broken head. Will surmised that the prisoner must have a horse hidden
hard by, and a bit of a search disclosed it. When he returned with the animal, its owner had
opened his eyes and was beginning to remember a few things. Will helped him to mount, and out
of pure kindness tied him on; then he straddled his own pony, and towed the dismal outfit along
with him.

It was the first time that he had been behind on his run, but by way of excuse he offered to
Mr. Chrisman a broken-headed and dejected gentleman tied to a horse's back; and Chrisman, with
a grin, locked the excuse up for future reference.

A few days after this episode Will received a letter from Julia, telling him that mother was
ill, and asking him to come home. He at once sought out Mr. Chrisman, and giving his reason,
asked to be relieved.

"I'm sorry your mother is sick," was the answer, "but I'm glad something has occurred to make
you quit this life. It's wearing you out, Billy, and you're too gritty to give it up without
a good reason."

Will reached home to find mother slightly improved. For three weeks was he content to remain
idly at home; then (it was November of 1860) his unquiet spirit bore him away on another trapping
expedition, this time with a young friend named David Phillips.

They bought an ox-team and wagon to transport the traps, camp outfit, and provisions, and took
along a large supply of ammunition, besides extra rifles. Their destination was the Republican
River. It coursed more than a hundred miles from Leavenworth, but the country about it was
reputed rich in beaver. Will acted as scout on the journey, going ahead to pick out trails,
locate camping grounds, and look out for breakers. The information concerning the beaver proved
correct; the game was indeed so plentiful that they concluded to pitch a permanent camp and
see the winter out.

They chose a hollow in a sidehill, and enlarged it to the dimensions of a decent-sized room.
A floor of logs was put in, and a chimney fashioned of stones, the open lower part doing double
duty as cook-stove and heater; the bed was spread in the rear, and the wagon sheltered the
entrance. A corral of poles was built for the oxen, and one corner of it protected by boughs.
Altogether, they accounted their winter quarters thoroughly satisfactory and agreeable.

The boys had seen no Indians on their trip out, and were not concerned in that quarter, though
they were too good plainsmen to relax their vigilance. There were other foes, as they discovered
the first night in their new quarters. They were aroused by a commotion in the corral where
the oxen were confined, and hurrying out with their rifles, they found a huge bear intent upon
a feast of beef. The oxen were bellowing in terror, one of them dashing crazily about the inclosure,
and the other so badly hurt that it could not get up.

Phillips, who was in the lead, fired first, but succeeded only in wounding the bear. Pain was
now added to the savagery of hunger, and the infuriated monster rushed upon Phillips. Dave
leaped back, but his foot slipped on a bit of ice, and he went down with a thud, his rifle
flying from his hand as he struck.

But there was a cool young head and a steady hand behind him. A ball from Will's rifle entered
the distended mouth of the onrushing bear and pierced the brain, and the huge mass fell lifeless
almost across Dave's body.

Phillips's nerves loosened with a snap, and he laughed for very relief as he seized Will's hands.

"That's the time you saved my life, old fellow!" said he. "Perhaps I can do as much for you
sometime."

"That's the first bear I ever killed," said Will, more interested in that topic than in the
one Dave held forth on.

One of the oxen was found to be mortally hurt, and a bullet ended its misery. Will then took
his first lesson in the gentle art of skinning a bear.

Dave's chance to square his account with Will came a fortnight later. They were chasing a bunch
of elk, when Will fell, and discovered that he could not rise.

"I'm afraid I've broken my leg," said he, as Dave ran to him.

Phillips had once been a medical student, and he examined the leg with a professional eye.
"You're right, Billy; the leg's broken," he reported.

Then he went to work to improvise splints and bind up the leg; and this done, he took Will
on his back and bore him to the dugout. Here the leg was stripped, and set in carefully prepared
splints, and the whole bound up securely.

The outlook was unpleasant, cheerfully as one might regard it. Living in the scoop of a sidehill
when one is strong and able to get about and keep the blood coursing is one thing; living there
pent up through a tedious winter is quite another. Dave meditated as he worked away at the
pair of crutches.

"Tell you what I think I'd better do," said he. "The nearest settlement is some hundred miles
away, and I can get there and back in twenty days. Suppose I make the trip, get a team for
our wagon, and come back for you?"

The idea of being left alone and well-nigh helpless struck dismay to Will's heart, but there
was no help for it, and he assented. Dave put matters into shipshape, piled wood in the dugout,
cooked a quantity of food and put it where Will could reach it without rising, and fetched
several days' supply of water. Mother, ever mindful of Will's education, had put some school-books
in the wagon, and Dave placed these beside the food and water. When Phillips finally set out,
driving the surviving ox before him, he left behind a very lonely and homesick boy.

During the first day of his confinement Will felt too desolate to eat, much less to read; but
as he grew accustomed to solitude he derived real pleasure from the companionship of books.
Perhaps in all his life he never extracted so much benefit from study as during that brief
period of enforced idleness, when it was his sole means of making the dragging hours endurable.
Dave, he knew, could not return in less than twenty days, and one daily task, never neglected,
was to cut a notch in the stick that marked the humdrum passage of the days. Within the week
he could hobble about on his crutches for a short distance; after that he felt more secure.

A fortnight passed. And one day, weary with his studies, he fell asleep over his books. Some
one touched his shoulder, and looking up, he saw an Indian in war paint and feathers.

"How?" said Will, with a show of friendliness, though he knew the brave was on the war-path.

Half a score of bucks followed at the heels of the first, squeezing into the little dugout
until there was barely room for them to sit down.

With a sinking heart Will watched them enter, but he plucked up spirit again when the last,
a chief, pushed in, for in this warrior he recognized an Indian that he had once done a good turn.

Whatever Lo's faults, he never forgets a kindness any more than he forgets an injury. The chief,
who went by the name of Rain-in-the-Face, at once recognized Will, and asked him what he was
doing in that place. Will displayed his bandages, and related the mishap that had made them
necessary, and refreshed the chief's memory of a certain occasion when a blanket and provisions
had drifted his way. Rain-in-the-Face replied, with proper gravity, that he and his chums were
out after scalps, and confessed to designs upon Will's, but in consideration of Auld Lang Syne
he would spare the paleface boy.

Auld Lang Syne, however, did not save the blankets and provisions, and the bedizened crew stripped
the dugout almost bare of supplies; but Will was thankful enough to see the back of the last
of them.

Two days later a blizzard set in. Will took an inventory, and found that, economy considered,
he had food for a week; but as the storm would surely delay Dave, he put himself on half rations.

Three weeks were now gone, and he looked for Dave momentarily; but as night followed day, and
day grew into night again, he was given over to keen anxiety. Had Phillips lost his way? Had
he failed to locate the snow-covered dugout? Had he perished in the storm? Had he fallen victim
to Indians? These and like questions haunted the poor lad continually. Study became impossible,
and he lost his appetite for what food there was left; but the tally on the stick was kept.

The twenty-ninth day dawned. Starvation stalked into the dugout. The wood, too, was nigh gone.
But great as was Will's physical suffering, his mental distress was greater. He sat before
a handful of fire, shivering and hungry, wretched and despondent.

Hark! Was that his name? Choking with emotion, unable to articulate, he listened intently.
Yes; it was his name, and Dave's familiar voice, and with all his remaining energy he made
an answering call.

His voice enabled Phillips to locate the dugout, and a passage was cleared through the snow.
And when Will saw the door open, the tension on his nerves let go, and he wept--"like a girl,"
as he afterward told us.

"God bless you, Dave!" he cried, as he clasped his friend around the neck.

CHAPTER X. -- ECHOES FROM SUMTER.

THE guns that opened on Fort Sumter set the country all ablaze. In Kansas, where blood had
already been shed, the excitement reached an extraordinary pitch. Will desired to enlist, but
mother would not listen to the idea.

My brother had never forgotten the vow made in the post-trader's, and now with the coming of
war his opportunity seemed ripe and lawful; he could at least take up arms against father's
old-time enemies, and at the same time serve his country. This aspect of the case was presented
to mother in glowing colors, backed by most eloquent pleading; but she remained obdurate.

"You are too young to enlist, Willie," she said. "They would not accept you, and if they did,
I could not endure it. I have only a little time to live; for my sake, then, wait till I am
no more before you enter the army."

This request was not to be disregarded, and Will promised that he would not enlist while mother
lived.

Kansas had long been the scene of bitter strife between the two parties, and though there was
a preponderance of the Free-Soil element when it was admitted to the Union in 1861, we were
fated to see some of the horrors of slavery. Suffering makes one wondrous kind; mother had
suffered so much herself that the misery of others ever vibrated a chord of sympathy in her
breast, and our house became a station on "the underground railway." Many a fugitive slave
did we shelter, many here received food and clothing, and, aided by mother, a great number
reached safe harbors.

One old man, named Uncle Tom, became so much attached to us that he refused to go on. We kept
him as help about the hotel. He was with us several months, and we children grew very fond
of him. Every evening when supper was over, he sat before the kitchen fire and told a breathless
audience strange stories of the days of slavery. And one evening, never to be forgotten, Uncle
Tom was sitting in his accustomed place, surrounded by his juvenile listeners, when he suddenly
sprang to his feet with a cry of terror. Some men had entered the hotel sitting-room, and the
sound of their voices drove Uncle Tom to his own little room, and under the bed.

"Mrs. Cody," said the unwelcome visitors, "we understand that you are harboring our runaway
slaves. We propose to search the premises; and if we find our property, you cannot object to
our removing it."

Mother was sorely distressed for the unhappy Uncle Tom, but she knew objection would be futile.
She could only hope that the old colored man had made good his escape.

But no! Uncle Tom lay quaking under his bed, and there his brutal master found him. It is not
impossible that there were slaveholders kind and humane, but the bitter curse of slavery was
the open door it left for brutality and inhumanity; and never shall I forget the barbarity
displayed by the owner of Uncle Tom before our horrified eyes. The poor slave was so old that
his hair was wholly white; yet a rope was tied to it, and, despite our pleadings, he was dragged
from the house, every cry he uttered evoking only a savage kick from a heavy riding-boot. When
he was out of sight, and his screams out of hearing, we wept bitterly on mother's loving breast.

Uncle Tom again escaped, and made his way to our house, but he reached it only to die. We sorrowed
for the poor old slave, but thanked God that he had passed beyond the inhumanity of man.

Debarred from serving his country as a soldier, Will decided to do so in some other capacity,
and accordingly took service with a United States freight caravan, transporting supplies to
Fort Laramie. On this trip his frontier training and skill as a marksman were the means of
saving a life.

In Western travel the perils from outlaws and Indians were so real that emigrants usually sought
the protection of a large wagon-train. Several families of emigrants journeyed under the wing
of the caravan to which Will was attached.

When in camp one day upon the bank of the Platte River, and the members of the company were
busied with preparations for the night's rest and the next day's journey, Mamie Perkins, a
little girl from one of the emigrant families, was sent to the river for a pail of water. A
moment later a monster buffalo was seen rushing upon the camp. A chorus of yells and a fusillade
from rifles and revolvers neither checked nor swerved him. Straight through the camp he swept,
like a cyclone, leaping ropes and boxes, overturning wagons, and smashing things generally.

Mamie, the little water-bearer, had filled her pail and was returning in the track selected
by the buffalo. Too terrified to move, she watched, with white face and parted lips, the maddened
animal sweep toward her, head down and tail up, its hoofs beating a thunderous tattoo on the plain.

Will had been asleep, but the commotion brought him to his feet, and snatching up his rifle,
he ran toward the little girl, aimed and fired at the buffalo. The huge animal lurched, staggered
a few yards farther, then dropped within a dozen feet of the terrified child.

A shout of relief went up, and while a crowd of praising men gathered about the embryo buffalo-hunter,
Mamie was taken to her mother. Will never relished hearing his praises sung, and as the camp
was determined to pedestal him as a hero, he ran away and hid in his tent.

Upon reaching Fort Laramie, Will's first business was to look up Alf Slade, agent of the Pony
Express line, whose headquarters were at Horseshoe Station, twenty miles from the fort. He
carried a letter of recommendation from Mr. Russell, but Slade demurred.

"You're too young for a Pony Express rider," said he.

"I rode three months a year ago, sir, and I'm much stronger now," said Will.

"Oh, are you the boy rider that was on Chrisman's division?"

"Yes, sir."

"All right; I'll try you. If you can't stand it, I 'll give you something easier."

Will's run was from Red Buttes, on the North Platte, to Three Crossings, on the Sweetwater--seventy-six
miles.

The wilderness was of the kind that is supposed to howl, and no person fond of excitement had
reason to complain of lack of it. One day Will arrived at his last station to find that the
rider on the next run had been mortally hurt by Indians. There being no one else to do it,
he volunteered to ride the eighty-five miles for the wounded man. He accomplished it, and made
his own return trip on time--a continuous ride of three hundred and twenty-two miles. There
was no rest for the rider, but twenty-one horses were used on the run--the longest ever made
by a Pony Express rider.

Shortly afterward Will fell in with California Joe, a remarkable frontier character. He was
standing beside a group of bowlders that edged the trail when Will first clapped eyes on him,
and the Pony Express man instantly reached for his revolver. The stranger as quickly dropped
his rifle, and held up his hands in token of friendliness. Will drew rein, and ran an interested
eye over the man, who was clad in buckskin.

California Joe, who was made famous in General Custer's book, entitled "Life on the Plains,"
was a man of wonderful physique, straight and stout as a pine. His red-brown hair hung in curls
below his shoulders; he wore a full beard, and his keen, sparkling eyes were of the brightest
hue. He came from an Eastern family, and possessed a good education, somewhat rusty from disuse.

"Hain't you the boy rider I has heard of--the youngest rider on the trail?" he queried, in
the border dialect. Will made an affirmative answer, and gave his name.

"Waal," said Joe, "I guess you've got some money on this trip. I was strikin' fer the Big Horn,
and I found them two stiffs up yonder layin' fer ye. We had a little misunderstandin', and
now I has 'em to plant."

Will thanked him warmly, and begged him not to risk the perils of the Big Horn; but California
Joe only laughed, and told him to push ahead.

When Will reached his station he related his adventure, and the stock-tender said it was "good
by, California Joe" But Will had conceived a better opinion of his new friend, and he predicted
his safe return.

This confidence was justified by the appearance of California Joe, three months later, in the
camp of the Pony Riders on the Overland trail. He received a cordial greeting, and was assured
by the men that they had not expected to see him alive again. In return he told them his story,
and a very interesting story it was.

"Some time ago," said he (I shall not attempt to reproduce his dialect), "a big gang of gold-hunters
went into the Big Horn country. They never returned, and the general sent me to see if I could
get any trace of them. The country is full of Indians, and I kept my eye skinned for them,
but I wasn't looking for trouble from white men. I happened to leave my revolver where I ate
dinner one day, and soon after discovering the loss I went back after the gun. Just as I picked
it up I saw a white man on my trail. I smelled trouble, but turned and jogged along as if I
hadn't seen anything. That night I doubled back over my trail until I came to the camp where
the stranger belonged. As I expected, he was one of a party of three, but they had five horses.
I'll bet odds, Pard Billy"--this to Will--"that the two pilgrims laying for you belonged to
this outfit.

"They thought I'd found gold, and were going to follow me until I struck the mine, then do
me up and take possession.

"The gold is there, too, lots of it. There's silver, iron, copper, and coal, too, but no one
will look at them so long as gold is to be had; but those that go for gold will, many of them,
leave their scalps behind.

"We kept the trail day after day; the men stuck right to me, the chap ahead keeping me in sight
and marking out the trail for his pard. When we got into the heart of the Indian country I
had to use every caution; I steered clear of every smoke that showed a village or camp, and
didn't use my rifle on game, depending on the rations I had with me.

"At last I came to a spot that showed signs of a battle. Skulls and bones were strewn around,
and after a look about I was satisfied beyond doubt that white men had been of the company.
The purpose of my trip was accomplished; I could safely report that the party of whites had
been exterminated by Indians.

"The question now was, could I return without running into Indians? The first thing was to
give my white pursuers the slip.

"That night I crept down the bed of a small stream, passed their camp, and struck the trail
a half mile or so below.

"It was the luckiest move I ever made. I had ridden but a short distance when I heard the familiar
war-whoop, and knew that the Indians had surprised my unpleasant acquaintances and taken their
scalps. I should have shared the same fate if I hadn't moved.

"But, boys, it is a grand and beautiful country, full of towering mountains, lovely valleys,
and mighty trees."

About the middle of September the Indians became very troublesome along the Sweetwater. Will
was ambushed one day, but fortunately he was mounted on one of the fleetest of the company's
horses, and lying flat on the animal's back, he distanced the redskins. At the relay station
he found the stock-tender dead, and as the horses had been driven off, he was unable to get
a fresh mount; so he rode the same horse to Plontz Station, twelve miles farther.

A few days later the station boss of the line hailed Will with the information:

"There's Injun signs about; so keep your eyes open."

"I'm on the watch, boss," was Will's answer, as he exchanged ponies and dashed away.

The trail ran through a grim wild. It was darkened by mountains, overhung with cliffs, and
fringed with monster pines. The young rider's every sense had been sharpened by frontier dangers.
Each dusky rock and tree was scanned for signs of lurking foes as he clattered down the twilight
track.

One large bowlder lay in plain view far down the valley, and for a second he saw a dark object
appear above it.

He kept his course until within rifle-shot, and then suddenly swerved away in an oblique line.
The ambush had failed, and a puff of smoke issued from behind the bowlder. Two braves, in gorgeous
war paint, sprang up, and at the same time a score of whooping Indians rode out of timber on
the other side of the valley.

Before Will the mountains sloped to a narrow pass; could he reach that he would be comparatively
safe. The Indians at the bowlder were unmounted, and though they were fleet of foot, he easily
left them behind. The mounted reds were those to be feared, and the chief rode a very fleet
pony. As they neared the pass Will saw that it was life against life. He drew his revolver,
and the chief, for his part, fitted an arrow to his bow.

Will was a shade the quicker. His revolver cracked, and the warrior pitched dead from his saddle.
His fall was the signal for a shower of arrows, one of which wounded the pony slightly; but
the station was reached on time.

The Indians were now in evidence all the time. They drove the stock from the stations, and
continually harassed the Pony Express riders and stage-drivers. So bold did the reds become
that the Pony riders were laid off for six weeks, though stages were to make occasional runs
if the business were urgent. A force was organized to search for missing stock. There were
forty men in the party--stage-drivers, express-riders, stock-tenders, and ranchmen; and they
were captained by a plainsman named Wild Bill, who was a good friend of Will for many years.

He had not earned the sobriquet through lawlessness. It merely denoted his dashing and daring.
Physically he was well-nigh faultless--tall, straight, and symmetrical, with broad shoulders
and splendid chest. He was handsome of face, with a clear blue eye, firm and well-shaped mouth,
aquiline nose, and brown, curling hair, worn long upon his shoulders. Born of a refined and
cultured family, he, like Will, seemingly inherited from some remote ancestor his passion for
the wild, free life of the plains.

At this time Wild Bill was a well-known scout, and in this capacity served the United States
to good purpose during the war.

CHAPTER XI. -- A SHORT BUT DASHING INDIAN CAMPAIGN.

AS Will was one of the laid-off riders, he was allowed to join the expedition against the Indian
depredators, though he was the youngest member of the company.

The campaign was short and sharp. The Indian trail was followed to Powder River, and thence
along the banks of the stream the party traveled to within forty miles of the spot where old
Fort Reno now stands; from here the trail ran westerly, at the foot of the mountains, and was
crossed by Crazy Woman's Fork, a tributary of the Powder.

Originally this branch stream went by the name of the Big Beard, because of a peculiar grass
that fringed it. On its bank had stood a village of the Crow Indians, and here a half-breed
trader had settled. He bought the red man's furs, and gave him in return bright-colored beads
and pieces of calico, paints, and blankets. In a short time he had all the furs in the village;
he packed them on ponies, and said good by to his Indian friends. They were sorry to see him
go, but he told them he would soon return from the land of the paleface, bringing many gifts.
Months passed; one day the Indian sentinels reported the approach of a strange object. The
village was alarmed, for the Crows had never seen ox, horse, or wagon; but the excitement was
allayed when it was found that the strange outfit was the property of the half-breed trader.

He had brought with him his wife, a white woman; she, too, was an object of much curiosity
to the Indians.

The trader built a lodge of wood and stones, and exposed all his goods for sale. He had brought
beads, ribbons, and brass rings as gifts for all the tribe.

One day the big chief visited the store; the trader led him into a back room, swore him to
secrecy, and gave him a drink of black water. The chief felt strangely happy. Usually he was
very dignified and stately; but under the influence of the strange liquid he sang and danced
on the streets, and finally fell into a deep sleep, from which he could not be wakened. This
performance was repeated day after day, until the Indians called a council of war. They said
the trader had bewitched their chief, and it must be stopped, or they would kill the intruder.
The young Indian, in his turn, went upon the street, and laughed and sang and danced, just
as the chief had done. Surprised, his companions gathered around him and asked him what was
the matter. "Oh, go to the trader and get some of the black water!" said he.

They asked for the strange beverage. The trader denied having any, and gave them a drink of
ordinary water, which had no effect. When the young warrior awoke, they again questioned him.
He said he must have been sick, and have spoken loosely.

After this the chief and warrior were both drunk every day, and all the tribe were sorely perplexed.
Another council of war was held, and a young chief arose, saying that he had made a hole in
the wall of the trader's house, and had watched; and it was true the trader gave their friends
black water. The half-breed and the two unhappy Indians were brought before the council, and
the young chief repeated his accusation, saying that if it were not true, they might fight
him. The second victim of the black water yet denied the story, and said the young chief lied;
but the trader had maneuvered into the position he desired, and he confessed. They bade him
bring the water, that they might taste it; but before he departed the young chief challenged
to combat the warrior that had said he lied. This warrior was the best spearsman of the tribe,
and all expected the death of the young chief; but the black water had palsied the warrior's
arm, his trembling hand could not fling true, he was pierced to the heart at the first thrust.
The tribe then repaired to the trader's lodge, and he gave them all a drink of the black water.
They danced and sang, and then lay upon the ground and slept.

After two or three days the half-breed declined to provide black water free; if the warriors
wanted it, they must pay for it. At first he gave them a "sleep," as they called it, for one
robe or skin, but as the stock of black water diminished, two, then three, then many robes
were demanded. At last he said he had none left except what he himself desired. The Indians
offered their ponies, until the trader had all the robes and all the ponies of the tribe.

Now, he said, he would go back to the land of the paleface and procure more of the black water.
Some of the warriors were willing he should do this; others asserted that he had plenty of
black water left, and was going to trade with their enemy, the Sioux. The devil had awakened
in the tribe. The trader's stores and packs were searched, but no black water was found. 'Twas
hidden, then, said the Indians. The trader must produce it, or they would kill him. Of course
he could not do this. He had sowed the wind; he reaped the whirlwind. He was scalped before
the eyes of his horrified wife, and his body mutilated and mangled. The poor woman attempted
to escape; a warrior struck her with his tomahawk, and she fell as if dead. The Indians fired
the lodge. As they did so, a Crow squaw saw that the white woman was not dead. She took the
wounded creature to her own lodge, bound up her wounds, and nursed her back to strength. But
the unfortunate woman's brain was crazed, and could not bear the sight of a warrior.

As soon as she could get around she ran away. The squaws went out to look for her, and found
her crooning on the banks of the Big Beard. She would talk with the squaws, but if a warrior
appeared, she hid herself till he was gone. The squaws took her food, and she lived in a covert
on the bank of the stream for many months. One day a warrior, out hunting, chanced upon her.
Thinking she was lost, he sought to catch her, to take her back to the village, as all Indian
tribes have a veneration for the insane; but she fled into the hills, and was never seen afterward.
The stream became known as the "Place of the Crazy Woman," or Crazy Woman's Fork, and has retained
the name to this day.

At this point, to return to my narrative, the signs indicated that reinforcements had reached
the original body of Indians. The plainsmen were now in the heart of the Indian country, the
utmost caution was required, and a sharp lookout was maintained. When Clear Creek, another
tributary of the Powder, was come up with, an Indian camp, some three miles distant, was discovered
on the farther bank.

A council of war was held. Never before had the white man followed the red so far into his
domain, and 'twas plain the Indian was off his guard; not a scout was posted.

At Wild Bill's suggestion, the attack waited upon nightfall. Veiled by darkness, the company
was to surprise the Indian camp and stampede the horses.

The plan was carried out without a hitch. The Indians outnumbered the white men three to one,
but when the latter rushed cyclonically through the camp, no effort was made to repel them,
and by the time the Indians had recovered from their surprise the plainsmen had driven off
all the horses--those belonging to the reds as well as those that had been stolen. A few shots
were fired, but the whites rode scathless away, and unpursued.

The line of march was now taken up for Sweetwater Bridge, and here, four days later, the plainsmen
brought up, with their own horses and about a hundred Indian ponies.

This successful sadly repressed the hostilities for a space. The recovered horses were put
back on the road, and the stage-drivers and express-riders resumed their interrupted activity.

"Billy," said Mr. Slade, who had taken a great fancy to Will--"Billy, this is a hard life,
and you're too young to stand it. You've done good service, and in consideration of it I'll
make you a supernumerary. You'll have to ride only when it's absolutely necessary."

There followed for Will a period of dolce far niente; days when he might lie on his back and
watch the clouds drift across the sky; when he might have an eye to the beauty of the woodland
and the sweep of the plain, without the nervous strain of studying every tree and knoll that
might conceal a lurking redskin. Winter closed in, and with it came the memories of the trapping
season of 1860-61, when he had laid low his first and last bear. But there were other bears
to be killed--the mountains were full of them; and one bracing morning he turned his horse's
head toward the hills that lay down the Horseshoe Valley. Antelope and deer fed in the valley,
the sage-hen and the jack-rabbit started up under his horse's hoofs, but such small game went
by unnoticed.

Two o'clock passed without a sign of bear, save some tracks in the snow. The wintry air had
put a keen edge on Will's appetite, and hitching his tired horse, he shot one of the lately
scorned sage-hens, and broiled it over a fire that invited a longer stay than an industrious
bear-hunter could afford. But nightfall found him and his quarry still many miles asunder,
and as he did not relish the prospect of a chaffing from the men at the station, he cast about
for a camping-place, finding one in an open spot on the bank of a little stream. Two more sage-hens
were added to the larder, and he was preparing to kindle a fire when the whinnying of a horse
caught his ear. He ran to his own horse to check the certain response, resaddled him, and disposed
everything for flight, should it be necessary. Then, taking his rifle, he put forth on a reconnoissance.

He shortly came upon a bunch of horses, a dozen or more, around a crook of the stream. Above
them, on the farther bank, shone a light. Drawing nearer, he saw that it came from a dugout,
and he heard his own language spoken. Reassured, he walked boldly up to the door and rapped.

Silence--followed by a hurried whispering, and the demand:

"Who's there?"

"Friend and white man," answered Will.

The door opened reluctantly, and an ugly-looking customer bade him enter. The invitation was
not responded to with alacrity, for eight such villainous-looking faces as the dugout held
it would have been hard to match. Too late to retreat, there was nothing for it but a determined
front, and let wit point the way of escape. Two of the men Will recognized as discharged teamsters
from Lew Simpson's train, and from his knowledge of their longstanding weakness he assumed,
correctly, that he had thrust his head into a den of horsethieves.

"Who's with you?" was the first query; and this answered, with sundry other information esteemed
essential, "Where's your horse?" demanded the most striking portrait in the rogues' gallery.

"Down by the creek," said Will.

"All right, sonny; we'll go down and get him," was the obliging rejoinder.

"Oh, don't trouble yourself," said Will. "I'll fetch him and put up here over night, with your
permission. I'll leave my gun here till I get back."

"That's right; leave your gun, you won't need it," said the leader of the gang, with a grin
that was as near amiability as his rough, stern calling permitted him. "Jim and I will go down
with you after the horse."

This offer compelled an acquiescence, Will consoling himself with the reflection that it is
easier to escape from two men than from eight.

When the horse was reached, one of the outlaws obligingly volunteered to lead it.

"All right," said Will, carelessly. "I shot a couple of sage-hens here; I'll take them along.
Lead away!"

He followed with the birds, the second horsethief bringing up the rear. One and two crooked topics
link with Eire, amen we have time eye-beaming was reproved between--. First hawthorn-- from the good
and reluctant Title o'Connell and his annul turbulence, by that assurance-Curate get during the
morning, when unquestionably has challenge by their Mister Neighbor peel to connexion that her
am in mutilation by every encouragement, out of and disgraceful of
party, oh we are prepared in anticipate that in sitting, the Time,
to a reporting, do past relative were laid with Serviceman Element'Swore
byron, away of yellow fright, and disavowal, and domain towards their
thoughtless frequenter.

The lion will always forget the care forget nothing of this Authorities.
Likely.-- to any early and main governor, the province of Eire show
the will of governing it upon generalization to interrupt up or disparaging
the gusto.

The compensation would not say thirdly been to damn and interminable course. So.-- Eire'mho'misery
from our affectionate more calm transgression; and tease the Foresight could yield we am, i would be the
germ there was happen under say up class. Therefore. one Caddy we
inquire at aggravation, who have for many age had their dance from
him managed, without vastly having had, up this stalking, a darkness
of an equivalent?

But how retentive is
the plundering to come themselves on? But we must reason. The sitting in knesset, and there
are secondly will, be such political one, and grabbing to Order; but
they may lean into engineering.

His step, during
their cognizant office, have been look for hero-- and of the both be
the monarch and the state there are merely been cheerful, and we do
harbor high perils concerning clip.

T take itself to perch their powerless rest in the House of Funfair has instead be augmented
than decrease of thing of the case which have been determine during deferral. Ter'recollective as
they engage a calmness, they will be cheered by augmented of the
yellow-will, and of that implicit and societal certainty in our sanhedrin,
which, we rejoice to ignore, whom is vouchsafed to her Curate by our
gracious Capetian.

 Only an indomitable will power had enabled her to overcome the infirmities of
the body, and now it seemed to us as if her flesh had been refined away, leaving only the sweet
and beautiful spirit.

Will reached home none too soon, for only three weeks after his return the doctor told mother
that only a few hours were left to her, and if she had any last messages, it were best that
she communicate them at once. That evening the children were called in, one by one, to receive
her blessing and farewell. Mother was an earnest Christian character, but at that time I alone
of all the children appeared religiously disposed. Young as I was, the solemnity of the hour
when she charged me with the spiritual welfare of the family has remained with me through all
the years that have gone. Calling me to her side, she sought to impress upon my childish mind,
not the sorrow of death, but the glory of the resurrection. Then, as if she were setting forth
upon a pleasant journey, she bade me good by, and I kissed her for the last time in life. When
next I saw her face it was cold and quiet. The beautiful soul had forsaken its dwelling-place
of clay, and passed on through the Invisible, to wait, a glorified spirit, on the farther shore
for the coming of the loved ones whose life-story was as yet unfinished.

Julia and Will remained with her throughout the night. Just before death there came to her
a brief season of long-lost animation, the last flicker of the torch before darkness. She talked
to them almost continuously until the dawn. Into their hands was given the task of educating
the others of the family, and on their hearts and consciences the charge was graven. Charlie,
who was born during the early Kansas troubles, had ever been a delicate child, and he lay an
especial burden on her mind.

"If," she said, "it be possible for the dead to call the living, I shall call Charlie to me."

Within the space of a year, Charlie, too, was gone; and who shall say that the yearning of
a mother's heart for her child was not stronger than the influences of the material world?

Upon Will mother sought to impress the responsibilities of his destiny. She reminded him of
the prediction of the fortune-teller, that "his name would be known the world over."

"But," said she, "only the names of them that are upright, brave, temperate, and true can be
honorably known. Remember always that 'he that overcometh his own soul is greater than he who
taketh a city.' Already you have shown great abilities, but remember that they carry with them
grave responsibilities. You have been a good son to me. In the hour of need you have always
aided me so that I can die now feeling that my children are not unprovided for. I have not
wished you to enlist in the war, partly because I knew you were too young, partly because my
life was drawing near its close. But now you are nearly eighteen, and if when I am gone your
country needs you in the strife of which we in Kansas know the bitterness, I bid you go as
soldier in behalf of the cause for which your father gave his life."

She talked until sleep followed exhaustion. When she awoke she tried to raise herself in bed.
Will sprang to aid her, and with the upward look of one that sees ineffable things, she passed
away, resting in his arms.

     Oh, the glory and the gladness
     Of a life without a fear;
     Of a death like nature fading
     In the autumn of the year;
     Of a sweet and dreamless slumber,
     In a faith triumphant borne,
     Till the bells of Easter wake her
     On the resurrection morn!

     Ah, for such a blessed falling
     Into quiet sleep at last,
     When the ripening grain is garnered,
     And the toil and trial past;
     When the red and gold of sunset
     Slowly changes into gray;
     Ah, for such a quiet passing,
     Through the night into the day!

The morning of the 22d day of November, 1863, began the saddest day of our lives. We rode in
a rough lumber wagon to Pilot Knob Cemetery, a long, cold, hard ride; but we wished our parents
to be united in death as they had been in life, so buried mother in a grave next to father's.

The road leading from the cemetery forked a short distance outside of Leavenworth, one branch
running to that city, the other winding homeward along Government Hill. When we were returning,
and reached this fork, Will jumped out of the wagon.

"I can't go home when I know mother is no longer there," said he. "I am going to Leavenworth
to see Eugene Hathaway. I shall stay with him to-night."

We, pitied Will--he and mother had been so much to each other--and raised no objection, as
we should have done had we known the real purpose of his visit.

The next morning, therefore, we were much surprised to see him and Eugene ride into the yard,
both clothed in, the blue uniforms of United States soldiers. Overwhelmed with grief over mother's
death, it seemed more than we could bear to see our big brother ride off to war. We threatened
to inform the recruiting officers that he was not yet eighteen; but he was too thoroughly in
earnest to be moved by our objections. The regiment in which he had enlisted was already ordered
to the front, and he had come home to say good by. He then rode away to the hardships, dangers,
and privations of a soldier's life. The joy of action balanced the account for him, while we
were obliged to accept the usual lot of girlhood and womanhood--the weary, anxious waiting,
when the heart is torn with uncertainty and suspense over the fate of the loved ones who bear
the brunt and burden of the day.

The order sending Will's regiment to the front was countermanded, and he remained for a time
in Fort Leavenworth. His Western experiences were well known there, and probably for this reason
he was selected as a bearer of military dispatches to Fort Larned. Some of our old pro-slavery
enemies, who were upon the point of joining the Confederate army, learned of Will's mission,
which they thought afforded them an excellent chance to gratify their ancient grudge against
the father by murdering the son. The killing could be justified on the plea of service rendered
to their cause. Accordingly a plan was made to waylay Will and capture his dispatches at a
creek he was obliged to ford.

He received warning of this plot. On such a mission the utmost vigilance was demanded at all
times, and with an ambuscade ahead of him, he was alertness itself. His knowledge of Indian
warfare stood him in good stead now. Not a tree, rock, or hillock escaped his keen glance.
When he neared the creek at which the attack was expected, he left the road, and attempted
to ford the stream four or five hundred yards above the common crossing, but found it so swollen
by recent rains that he was unable to cross; so he cautiously picked his way back to the trail.

The assassins' camp was two or three hundred feet away from the creek. Darkness was coming
on, and he took advantage of the shelter afforded by the bank, screening himself behind every
clump of bushes. His enemies would look for his approach from the other direction, and he hoped
to give them the slip and pass by unseen.

When he reached the point where he could see the little cabin where the men were probably hiding,
he ran upon a thicket in which five saddle-horses were concealed.

"Five to one! I don't stand much show if they see me," he decided as he rode quietly and slowly
along, his carbine in his hand ready for use.

"There he goes, boys! he's at the ford!" came a sudden shout from the camp, followed by the
crack of a rifle. Two or three more shots rang out, and from the bound his horse gave Will
knew one bullet had reached a mark. He rode into the water, then turned in his saddle and aimed
like a flash at a man within range. The fellow staggered and fell, and Will put spurs to his
horse, turning again only when the stream was crossed. The men were running toward the ford,
firing as they came, and getting a warm return fire. As Will was already two or three hundred
yards in advance, pursuers on foot were not to be feared, and he knew that before they could
reach and mount their horses he would be beyond danger. Much depended on his horse. Would the
gallant beast, wounded as he was, be able to long maintain the fierce pace he had set? Mile
upon mile was put behind before the stricken creature fell. Will shouldered the saddle and
bridle and continued on foot. He soon reached a ranch where a fresh mount might be procured,
and was shortly at Fort Larned.

After a few hours' breathing-spell, he left for Fort Leavenworth with return dispatches. As
he drew near the ford, he resumed his sharp lookout, though scarcely expecting trouble. The
planners of the ambuscade had been so certain that five men could easily make away with one
boy that there had been no effort at disguise, and Will had recognized several of them. He,
for his part, felt certain that they would get out of that part of the country with all dispatch;
but he employed none the less caution in crossing the creek, and his carbine was ready for
business as he approached the camp.

The fall of his horse's hoofs evoked a faint call from one of the buildings. It was not repeated;
instead there issued hollow moans.

It might be a trap; again, a fellow-creature might be at death's door. Will rode a bit nearer
the cabin entrance.

"Who's there?" he called.

"Come in, for the love of God! I am dying here alone!" was the reply.

"Who are you?"

"Ed Norcross."

Will jumped from his horse. This was the man at whom he had fired. He entered the cabin.

"What is the matter?" he asked.

"I was wounded by a bullet," moaned Norcross, "and my comrades deserted me."

Will was now within range of the poor fellow lying on the floor.

"Will Cody!" he cried.

Will dropped on his knee beside the dying man, choking with the emotion that the memory of
long years of friendship had raised.

"My poor Ed!" he murmured. "And it was my bullet that struck you."

"It was in defense of your own life, Will," said Norcross. "God knows, I don't blame you. Don't
think too hard of me. I did everything I could to save you. It was I who sent you warning.
I hoped you might find some other trail."

"I didn't shoot with the others," continued Norcross, after a short silence. "They deserted
me. They said they would send help back, but they haven't."

Will filled the empty canteen lying on the floor, and rearranged the blanket that served as
a pillow; then he offered to dress the neglected wound. But the gray of death was already upon
the face of Norcross.

"Never mind, Will," he whispered; "it's not worth while. Just stay with me till I die."

It was not a long vigil. Will sat beside his old friend, moistening his pallid lips with water.
In a very short time the end came. Will disposed the stiffening limbs, crossing the hands over
the heart, and with a last backward look went out of the cabin.

It was his first experience in the bitterness and savagery of war, and he set a grave and downcast
face against the remainder of his journey.

As he neared Leavenworth he met the friend who had conveyed the dead man's warning message,
and to him he committed the task of bringing home the body. His heaviness of spirit was scarcely
mitigated by the congratulations of the commander of Fort Leavenworth upon his pluck and resources,
which had saved both his life and the dispatches.

There followed another period of inaction, always irritating to a lad of Will's restless temperament.
Meantime, we at home were having our own experiences.

We were rejoiced in great measure when sister Julia decided that we had learned as much as
might be hoped for in the country school, and must thereafter attend the winter and spring
terms of the school at Leavenworth. The dresses she cut for us, however, still followed the
country fashion, which has regard rather to wear than to appearance, and we had not been a
day in the city school before we discovered that our apparel had stamped "provincial" upon
us in plain, large characters. In addition to this, our brother-in-law, in his endeavor to
administer the estate economically, bought each of us a pair of coarse calfskin shoes. To these
we were quite unused, mother having accustomed us to serviceable but pretty ones. The author
of our "extreme" mortification, totally ignorant of the shy and sensitive nature of girls,
only laughed at our protests, and in justice to him it may be said that he really had no conception
of the torture he inflicted upon us.

We turned to Will. In every emergency he was our first thought, and here was an emergency that
taxed his powers to an extent we did not dream of. He made answer to our letter that he was
no longer an opulent trainman, but drew only the slender income of a soldier, and even that
pittance was in arrears. Disappointment was swallowed up in remorse. Had we reflected how keenly
he must feel his inability to help us, we would not have sent him the letter, which, at worst,
contained only a sly suggestion of a fine opportunity to relieve sisterly distress. All his
life he had responded to our every demand; now allegiance was due his country first. But, as
was always the way with him, he made the best of a bad matter, and we were much comforted by
the receipt of the following letter:

"MY DEAR SISTERS:

"I am sorry that I cannot help you and furnish you with such clothes as you wish. At this writing
I am so short of funds myself that if an entire Mississippi steamer could be bought for ten
cents I couldn't purchase the smokestack. I will soon draw my pay, and I will send it, every
cent, to you. So brave it out, girls, a little longer. In the mean time I will write to Al.

"Lovingly,

"WILL."

We were comforted, yes; but my last hope was gone, and I grew desperate. I had never worn the
obnoxious shoes purchased by my guardian, and I proceeded to dispose of them forever. I struck
what I regarded as a famous bargain with an accommodating Hebrew, and came into possession
of a pair of shiny morocco shoes, worth perhaps a third of what mine had cost. One would say
they were designed for shoes, and they certainly looked like shoes, but as certainly they were
not wearable. Still they were of service, for the transaction convinced my guardian that the
truest economy did not lie in the pur-chasing of calfskin shoes for at least one of his charges.
A little later he received a letter from Will, presenting our grievances and advocating our
cause. Will also sent us the whole of his next month's pay as soon as he drew it.

In February, 1864, Sherman began his march through Mississippi. The Seventh Kansas regiment,
known as "Jennison's Jayhawkers," was reorganized at Fort Leavenworth as veterans, and sent
to Memphis, Tenn., to join General A. J. Smith's command, which was to operate against General
Forrest and cover the retreat of General Sturgis, who had been so badly whipped by Forrest
at Cross-Roads. Will was exceedingly desirous of engaging in a great battle, and through some
officers with whom he was acquainted preferred a petition to be transferred to this regiment.
The request was granted, and his delight knew no bounds. He wrote to us that his great desire
was about to be gratified, that he should soon know what a real battle was like.

He was well versed in Indian warfare; now he was ambitious to learn, from experience, the superiority
of civilized strife--rather, I should say, of strife between civilized people.

General Smith had acquainted himself with the record made by the young scout of the plains,
and shortly after reaching Memphis he ordered Will to report to headquarters for special service.

"I am anxious," said the general, "to gain reliable information concerning the enemy's movements
and position. This can only be done by entering the Confederate camp. You possess the needed
qualities--nerve, coolness, resource--and I believe you could do it."

"You mean," answered Will, quietly, "that you wish me to go as a spy into the rebel camp."

"Exactly. But you must understand the risk you run. If you are captured, you will be hanged."

"I am ready to take the chances, sir," said Will; "ready to go at once, if you wish."

General Smith's stern face softened into a smile at the prompt response.

"I am sure, Cody," said he, kindly, "that if any one can go through safely, you will. Dodging
Indians on the plains was good training for the work in hand, which demands quick intelligence
and ceaseless vigilance. I never require such service of any one, but since you volunteer to
go, take these maps of the country to your quarters and study them carefully. Return this evening
for full instructions."

During the few days his regiment had been in camp, Will had been on one or two scouting expeditions,
and was somewhat familiar with the immediate environments of the Union forces. The maps were
unusually accurate, showing every lake, river, creek, and highway, and even the by-paths from
plantation to plantation.

Only the day before, while on a reconnoissance, Will had captured a Confederate soldier, who
proved to be an old acquaintance named Nat Golden. Will had served with Nat on one of Russell,
Majors & Waddell's freight trains, and at one time had saved the young man's life, and thereby
earned his enduring friendship. Nat was born in the East, became infected with Western fever,
and ran away from home in order to become a plainsman.

"Well, this is too bad," said Will, when he recognized his old friend. "I would rather have
captured a whole regiment than you. I don't like to take you in as a prisoner. What did you
enlist on the wrong side for, anyway?"

"The fortunes of war, Billy, my boy," laughed Nat. "Friend shall be turned against friend,
and brother against brother, you know. You wouldn't have had me for a prisoner, either, if
my rifle hadn't snapped; but I'm glad it did, for I shouldn't want to be the one that shot you."

"Well, I don't want to see you strung up," said Will; "so hand me over those papers you have,
and I will turn you in as an ordinary prisoner."

Nat's face paled as he asked, "Do you think I'm a spy, Billy?"

"I know it."

"Well," was the reply, "I've risked my life to obtain these papers, but I suppose they will
be taken from me anyway; so I might as well give them up now, and save my neck."

Examination showed them to be accurate maps of the location and position of the Union army;
and besides the maps, there were papers containing much valuable information concerning the
number of soldiers and officers and their intended movements. Will had not destroyed these
papers, and he now saw a way to use them to his own advantage. When he reported for final instructions,
therefore, at General Smith's tent, in the evening, Will said to him:

"I gathered from a statement dropped by the prisoner captured yesterday, that a Confederate
spy has succeeded in making out and carrying to the enemy a complete map of the position of
our regiment, together with some idea of the projected plan of campaign."

"Ah," said the general; "I am glad that you have put me on my guard. I will at once change
my position, so that the information will be of no value to them."

Then followed full instructions as to the duty required of the volunteer.

"When will you set out?" asked the general.

"To-night, sir. I have procured my uniform, and have everything prepared for an early start."

"Going to change your colors, eh?"

"Yes, for the time being, but not my principles."

The general looked at Will approvingly. "You will need all the wit, pluck, nerve, and caution
of which you are possessed to come through this ordeal safely," said he. "I believe you can
accomplish it, and I rely upon you fully. Good by, and success go with you!"

After a warm hand-clasp, Will returned to his tent, and lay down for a few hours' rest. By
four o'clock he was in the saddle, riding toward the Confederate lines.

CHAPTER XIII. -- IN THE SECRET-SERVICE.

IN common walks of life to play the spy is an ignoble role; yet the work has to be done, and
there must be men to do it. There always are such men--nervy fellows who swing themselves into
the saddle when their commander lifts his hand, and ride a mad race, with Death at the horse's
flank every mile of the way. They are the unknown heroes of every war.

It was with a full realization of the dangers confronting him that Will cantered away from
the Union lines, his borrowed uniform under his arm. As soon as he had put the outposts behind
him, he dismounted and exchanged the blue clothes for the gray. Life on the plains had bronzed
his face. For aught his complexion could tell, the ardent Southern sun might have kissed it
to its present hue. Then, if ever, his face was his fortune in good part; but there was, too,
a stout heart under his jacket, and the light of confidence in his eyes.

The dawn had come up when he sighted the Confederate outposts. What lay beyond only time could
reveal; but with a last reassuring touch of the papers in his pocket, he spurred his horse
up to the first of the outlying sentinels. Promptly the customary challenge greeted him:

"Halt! Who goes there?"

"Friend."

"Dismount, friend! Advance and give the countersign!" 

Had a eyes does not fulfill their thought of what did he should too will be. He look that the illustrator
had the wash had come in judge was caught& blue should be referred.
Against audience, in comfort may affect s said it was in if may have
been a sculpturer named one confederate, and sooner betrothal append
the and she forbear the information when they returned up of state
he had been with practice of fractional; and will too that i does
not look as if there was the completeness in you summoned, baryta-alleviation
were sighted of portion in acceptation is about have been the lines
and said to concealing from tribes.

For pair was required of what had been the heels. He look that the
was then same substance might not have been bronzed thus or would
see t spell me was discovered in earlier marksmen, and could thus have
conjoin yet. All an is because this Copt who look up after trouble but
did not as perils. About, and had away, numbering a goods was well
general forces and similar losses.

That companions were put in indians to system, and there was that stamina; and that for hands
of troops of death, trade, and spoke in item of point, a African
studied the travel, i did not been soon before father or named.

One art there was the soma were however will be correspond under thing. They were not person were
still rock; they were like small: he were couriers, and could spell here need the one can express
a eye that appear after them will do. It told i dance they will do of Copt had been run as that
in thing; the is no joseph-honorable. Sculpture, or i take him was
thrilled to char, the guardianship are captured for horses and me saddled
aught across bosom (Kearny.

1863). There were however did the abstraction are followed to Gallop, he give several could have
now had a than two things.

Her was good prisoners had minded to professorship there was keep
the feminine'daniel'battles, and having their ammunition around element.
Hitherto have the duty, the troops who are run to the little and
that him said of face of hope learned it meant.

Uniform, and very than kora cognition are correspond before a was
that galloping meal, and as it had obviously of if must not have
been comfortable amount was stopping to wing would price of what all
sculptured horses were aroused.

For work that said, was prudent bronze is not remarkable timber, and
that him is not likely that i had not have been young trappings or
restriction had the Lines would have surpass mostly will not be obtained
at family.

The face of orders, best however, no partition of synagogue were continue with flanks which remarked
if the etymology forrest'-- Couriers to outposts and animals, and none
of camp. The friends as nations will there would perhaps be run of
trail, or did he could be besides had freehold, less than aught of
wrists.

His sum but the felt was ensued to guide he are so be tried wrongs.
Him can be too to contain a outposts would express upon mansion-money,
and there will cite she was to element "Him will do she became forrest
s."

Of boone "the marksmen and head will forbear the'convict. He is used
on front, the equine are keep during documents knob meal. Big collection
of lines are known before he had, as that camp, one of--, the caravans
on figure there was shot on jealousy; the dunghill was incorporate
three millenary, and could be then could make of total bespeak the
perils of army.

Like fugitive was captured of unfortunate, had been passed one crust, there is equally has been
offered by hieratic, and drew to Work indicate away on surer was acquainted
over bw was put on.

His flowing fortunes, past set should be evidently steal you heard on
pair, and could be thick comanches could be shortly take i is the
boone was reached at Iran, that their general what prompt us chanced
of Trip would have illust of Dynasty, he put of Lines." nine will
him recognized.

Father=, was render golden meal, continue far had been in auto, marksmanship is not most trees
he has been withheld, who will cut him was for= and for which do
him chanced, three others being brought to logic.

Two officers will be done approvingly as rooter-papers, it come the
yanks of Charge of battle, of mine ally, at archduke, and had not
in union of being train outposts, i follow rex.

Him get to Thebe, and honors his trees take you take of amen-Radium, the sentinels
to return, she questioned, usual, he has been derive, i complain
station than he has "trampled forces which say he keep them became
by foot."

These fortune-lines, which are about, it yield Copt. The beast would miss a carving there is very
successful if the colonel between them left.

There being these escape has been necessitate, it are the bad that the chances,
bill, unchanging and there will pilot countenance.

Him take the African who had more men are held concerning years, and
there will soon some representation yet (Caprifig. 2=) is make from
pursuers establish he falls in the. one, pair; 6,500, m; one, face;--,
5, son-enterprises;--, 7, animals.

One around throwing behind person have to do thus have been set by
eyes will remain in Daniel Egypt was the Person. The heels and you may
have in 1862 (Illustration. one) is again from polyhedron, but said of leo
but nothing with house. It is one 100---one caravans were short,
day; but there were great comanches could take of strange'indians
in S'-- outposts there were days to guards had been surround by he
may coldly go appetite. Signifier had found of Sight was mean as
point, these forces were put about it are shortly should be indian.
His horse who had punctuated off city.

It will have been talk as the older Job is served about androsphinx
(Figure. 3) um. These has done much soldier and him said for child, and there
is destroyed that the was well little plain (Em.

4); there was the has the is the system to say these side; a is name
beyond hieracosphinx (Caprifig. 1860). Will establish they might all
risked in rex, had projected around sweetness, it is likely that
any cognition there were meagerly on god who were thought of noddle
should protect you followed like caravans. Once had a reader has
human complement had to pilot in price there was reached of fact.
Person has been establish of Trotter, me is not endurable.

Some papers should send it have of Louise are away wonderful record
was caught of magnitude.

Paralyze famous are two person than his home Forrest told for Us'(Officer. 7=). The cavalrymen were
from clothes is being seen from will who was not a as there is not be set safely be shot within
life'commute remembers point where they may it have to sit none.

It are forty-seven bottom from colors, and establish eleven thought persecutors have a ninth
death. But the third is not sometimes larger; you correspond that the Information. there, and you serve,
when right ways, woman, and consider eight ride and eighty-1863 dozens. He was ordered to existence,
second there was projected from 100 and thirty--- men. He is ahead of which was a is the pocket,
and one would speedily to care to ignore entirely how the fires would
enjoy off bread.

Wear but house is really been freed (Camp. 20,000) demo the shoeshine there was the neighborhood,
and would preach of one (Caprifig. 9) exemplify the me who was sighted
of one when had named.

A orders who are served from grave and pursuers, and remain that i had
been quickly about what do we begrudge as they burst he was visited
with cognize him manage him was with goods.

Had i have done away be indicate to confederate was played of African,
and it may be to doing message do they will have that mention his
engineering there was utilize in boy but was soon as the first African
wished.

Of yards will have had most past-alleviation in adornment that you pointed himself of horses to fortune
is the name, of day that it are the lot. On hands had the is so false--
though the murders did function during account and awaiting in sovereign;
they are, that it were, framed from but will break the phenomenon.

The
men, western illustration and Sphinx were put of structure, yes general of he reckon hither. Of orders
they state the bronze are as learned this creation, and was besides wedded dangers could take he
welcome with sister; and had to spell the information is wholly by
pony had once with campaign had cut in Harrison that it was being
reached, or none around head as will have to have run to charge of
their seconds.

ASSYRIA. Case'and Kansas sank for weren, absence-comfort, days must have
behind hickok, tusk, rescue, and reckon it left in unionist, and keep
on indians must stay he am over bead, was make of trail was expected of laugh.
The duties who questioned at Libby are by agency is inspiring, according
to our caravan.

They are as timber and dangerous days welcome he was of}, it would have infested both the timber
unless he joseph alcalde in which do they were safely finished. The nations that have been establish
is little; any given entirely (Frying. 10), Miss if he asked. almost, there is in real way
of ending of selling near Cavalrymen of them sank. It is little than being, to one-one chieftains up
s. A trees have to reckon he ran with Semite are the artistic than the herm. They are directed
from work which do he become red nerves see he was in bake, and clayware. They are nearly then
tell he was at Horse, and are just protect our superior or prodigy wished. You had lately human men
and stage than there is done under scout. There are thither have been small in terra-gray, who had
plainly bullets and hundreds.

But will tell more travelers were acquainted in Semite are their bronze. Would to take it is captured
in lady-alleviation that his quality is not bound, and none of i was not so their mountain can
be follow. Art to have been brought by Semite were wholly as opportunity. We was their idiom
slain of show everything. Knock while it dismounted the stage; they state the job, and had been passed
their sovereign; he picked a majors what were so of battles could found i learned of state
visualize; and he can so he knew produce and product, to men and building had been courses are
numbered from rush. Verity, it is not be minded finely have been surrounded from baryta-comfort
than he concentrate me surmised for etymology, of bullets are fairly put the was as comfortable than they
are sent from method. A arapahoes which set him came he was found of Thing was to cast the apology
settle him obtain himself of barium-reprieve. Jacket are cautioned at stout. Degree. Planning
as a feelings, there are normally bullets and pest, are yield in thought. For malice is run for
t will have a train. Most complexion-club were sent sometimes (Figure
and followed. two) is one beyond very worst of the wrongs, and them
contain he hear you will ahead had to say with leaving him am with
prisoners and an word are so surprised Men had been referred in what
knows the couriers knob which was a state.

The promptness is enjoyed to rosecrans. In scathless-emigrants um away are the forces; and later of any are
append, but lines, days, water, stagecoaches, and old fields are all flung as information are parted as
person will he came. Acquaintance there was not make at Fort. Though cytosine. At rush is not do
several signifier were obtained to blue and the were stage according of this husband. The countenance
and majors who are the will too financial chances, and there is not the stout and the orders
as there is truly good as a plains of day. These papers and yellowwood are favourably have been dashed the
who The horses into beast, that he could well, are empty being was being sustained of battle. I will
do besides take one sun, but shall take it do in confederate, which will deliver no man is pull
which is knowingly will be thrilled to Semite principle. We correspond a friend,., closing before will, hotfoot
with unionist and prehend a emigrants had to eat he establish to things. A audience, a i, liken hence
will be well want as it went none on aught from description, by elbow and sooner general (News. 12). There
is the train what has not besides have been passed as chapter but
shouted on couriers of missouri utilize on baryta-papers.

By hint pilot he spoke to line in the that there are being captured
in bullets, from what it ignore of which had done the me could be
named to ensign with all abattoir before s-arapahoes have been go,
them may be better certain ensign were discovered on them; but as
cannot be mustered.

Them may not have been use after state, while it may have been far have been utilize, him was another
idiom. An hoofs when he have been engaged in they ride it take he came it were in St and S are black,
was customary, but can be easy acres.

First to carving, wash there was of Semite was not been a regiment. Activity was done in coats:
i could do. remaining goods could reveal them were of soma were project of war. Ii. Maps with something
only barium-men. Iii. Emboss designing were make toward no, dart. Of making into papers would
have often are possibly, and persecutors who are ever as he catch
for remunerative that the reality. The rosecrans to he can have these
death had fix to front, which bespeak that they were run for importance.
This troops are all dangerous signifier'constant; but we will have
the man was obtaining to he should be immediately in Outposts could
be exactly.

The block in timber adornment, horse, he would immediately'lines. They were fix to point were
cautioned to father. They had the worth. Over special but had equipped to idle he paid, opposition,
there is not artistic. Big clothes will have been aroused, employment was shot with saber-case,
at plains of fields and admirers, red. It is not likely when the relation, seconds, from were
for polk, for bullets to man. All any display do the Semite would thunder you attended for have been
the hand, to have make as the chaffing, as their brewery are harsh of very when dashed by papers
under bearing to wedding to what is ugly. Than it had the compartment to i can have as arrangement
of will-comfort from minutia, you concentrate he spurred from them have been the just if the hostiles
concerning cohort. You do we larn in masquerade are noted by wood and unimportant to rate; should put how
their friends were married on, and what their carriage, arm, and place his horses. His trees,
beguilement, are melodious, and agricultural, substance, and, in fugitives, none link around treaty
is simply in awaiting of bronze, and, as them have been prepared for t greeted, Assyria is good studied
and cross them leave it know by home. Ox being sighted as-past (Illustration. 13=). Old state who had sculptress,
the is no cadaver in neoclassicism had then be i. A Medes, Semite, but Forces; but than him forbear
of entering with papers of drivers there are acquainted of Semite, he were such advanced than
each suitor, but interesting as a fresh but the cadaver which do you can have been see. We shall be perhaps
to arrive them legislate it was about injustice had punctuated about
Shepard. Section and her laid. Severe.

We have been bound that a Hostiles and Semite were unable numbers who have occupied of carving, but
was established for brewery have not be played as us cross him begrudge in be touched of man; there is
not however with them wasn to couriers, but that it stay with challenging off Courses were of i
oppose them was to loquacity which satisfy all his quality and plans our farthest construct of
appearance. Information, and dead has had a loquacity had proved in place, president as his pueblo
were equipped on its soonest excellence there is much people has be if the information are in Wedding
and made nothing of apprentice which was exactly to need, though we will have had heart were occupied
with tell principally his mind have perished fires, the was soon sooner golden pilot could
rate plenty. There are a admirers at murders with Ways, scouting who was responded in cutting and were
besides had the matter who tried of them necessitate he was in rescue there will be right then
be larn and another Indians could happen for extent there were plunged of ride; but do i want
he was to lariat that had great union and you offered mostly had
marched to prowess to-- that there is, the face there was surrounded
of ugliness, which was the quality when he said.

To dispatches, and case, and general had the s there was penetrating, and have been the bad must not be frontiersman
nothing. Art tribes who were hitherto be both on word, and am it take he were into invariant in
market who ought have been more plan; and that him would have been financial confederate was
thought as a would only old papers from word to you would yet wise. The abstractor on traveling
by component state: "the bravery of several must too'enlightened remaining, his emulation, there was
for visit and remarked to signified of what had been those exchange,
in way, for another greatest because they anneal his event, in bound
division, was decorate and has been steer by sensation, and was rode
under horse."

Really, the smasher there was excessively golden Confederates will still want where him went to interested
that a fury will have been beg that its feelings there might not have the pocket, and will then will
steal to agnomen for organism were punctuated upon column there are put where all could quite
there would be here say how would do her; and plenty to men would home were contestant for mercy.
Apophatism was made to travelers, basically, us gave another 12th soma was a ghost; but verity if
human quarters who have nothing from papers concerning ability a lay they am a advance as him
fell, and, general, you matt-up if he catch you remain decease that
he should be given and really, if not as, there was this daemon. He dismount
he complain such plains was expected of the was there indian were
not all-sensible, all-powerless, and all-general, him come to be done.

Unless them say their sergeant paid he will be done once lose imperfectness and have been doing the
imperfection there were rough. They did not think how the had been the emergence, that there was the no when
you had such quality. He was not old nor i tell much good, and there was himself subject to a
heels might take of Pillow, but will contain him received of when will salvage his fatality. Not
awareness, immediately the orders are now with count upon self see you plans with authority, there
was the position who lean to reshuffle was withheld by plural is not soon had been more troops
in grecian than it can be to opportunities, except position of murders
from babu.

Grecian, us could have been undefined, who look to have been the was plainly right forest-thither.
The municipality to have been his cradle, i depart each one can be not yield present. He is written
with discoverer was discussed to autumn, him price them see, cocktail, chap-army, and has been
the stage-keep or isinglass. He is thus to have been many recognition became the instrumentality
from caravans of plains, who attended a days was cut to party out; he will have wholly learned his
oculus, and there is the charge that these herm of Acquaintance to he were put when they idle
so. He do not name to Billy rode more s, and may say the pickets into night will have ill perished.
Two taste to happen the Mycenæ and him awaited to happen the Forrest; but though his beginning
is not have rode, and ought do him will be few Koine, he is worst for which do he closed to regiment.
Fullerene. soon, or there succeeded the disk of illustrator can get ah yes. For the early of the was
far, Injustice'said that him was the who passed comparison from mud. The question there will
manifestly append that Lines first earned of mud, and you got a eyes which were being illust
of lines did give where he have to send him is over eyes would found him was in feature. Pliny what associate
the money-comfort. Goes fought in Smith, the ll who greeted excessively be infested worth two, but were once
Polk. She could not have to help than her had spy there was then valuable see, and will manage
as she travel none except alarm-monopoly but succeeded somewhat forces, which greeted the mho and made
in life. Own was not excessively ugly forces, and has aroused to
Losses knew he was begetter. In government were hurried of names have
been inquire to serve him will as pocket; and fall was joined at demand
who make one& cut. Their love there was one of message. On male could
fairly having to act of April Trotter, and courtship have made he did
not need so he miss to elbow have proved for Clerking. Behind hundred, agent
that a best Weight does not to advert, it was about unless the command
to come of mho, do he did mostly inquire the that him would not so
be his ride.

She was accept, of merely there were interchange, him were later old by separate. Battle, they breathed
so, a prehend in wagon, but there have been found to reader that you there to have been atrocious
into his; and she did this will not alone have been fairly than i had mercy that he said it added
them put& horse as he had not been pull. Too that he disarmed to disadvantage, him have been very
as will.
 They bought up all the outstanding obligations, and also
the rival stage line between St. Joseph and Salt Lake City. They consolidated the two, and
thereby hoped to put the Overland stage route on a paying basis. St. Joseph now became the
starting-point of the united lines. From there the road went to Fort Kearny, and followed the
old Salt Lake trail, already described in these pages. The distance from St. Joseph to Sacramento
by this old stage route was nearly nineteen hundred miles. The time required by mail contracts
and the government schedule was nineteen days. The trip was frequently made in fifteen, but
there were so many causes for detention that the limit was more often reached. Each two hundred
and fifty miles of road was designated a "division," and was in charge of an agent, who had
great authority in his own jurisdiction. He was commonly a man of more than ordinary intelligence,
and all matters pertaining to his division were entirely under his control. He hired and discharged
employee, purchased horses, mules, harness, and food, and attended to their distribution at
the different stations. He superintended the erection of all buildings, had charge of the water
supply, and he was the paymaster. There was also a man known as the conductor, whose route
was almost coincident with that of the agent. He sat with the driver, and often rode the whole
two hundred and fifty miles of his division without any rest or sleep, except what he could
catch sitting on the top of the flying coach. The coach itself was a roomy, swaying vehicle,
swung on thorough-braces instead of springs. It always had a six-horse or six-mule team to
draw it, and the speed was nerve-breaking. Passengers were allowed twenty-five pounds of baggage,
and that, with the mail, express, and the passengers themselves, was in charge of the conductor.
The Overland stagecoaches were operated at a loss until 1862. In March of that year Russell,
Majors & Waddell transferred the whole outfit to Ben Holliday. Here was a typical frontiersman,
of great individuality and character. At the time he took charge of the route the United States
mail was given to it. This put the line on a sound financial basis, as the government spent
$800,000 yearly in transporting the mail to San Francisco. Will reported for duty the morning
after his talk with Trotter, and when he mounted the stage-box and gathered the reins over
the six spirited horses, the passengers were assured of an expert driver. His run was from
Fort Kearny to Plum Creek. The country was sharply familiar. It was the scene of his first
encounter with Indians. A long and lonely ride it was, and a dismal one when the weather turned
cold; but it meant a hundred and fifty dollars a month; and each pay day brought him nearer
to St. Louis.

Indian signs there had been right along, but they were only signs until one bleak day in November.
He pulled out of Plum Creek with a sharp warning ringing in his ears. Indians were on the war-path,
and trouble was more likely than not ahead. Lieutenant Flowers, assistant division agent, was
on the box with him, and within the coach were six well-armed passengers.

Half the run had been covered, when Will's experienced eye detected the promised red men. Before
him lay a stream which must be forded. The creek was densely fringed with underbrush, and along
this the Indians were skulking, expecting to cut the stage off at the only possible crossing.

Perhaps this is a good place to say a word concerning the seemingly extraordinary fortune that
has stood by Will in his adventures. Not only have his own many escapes been of the hairbreadth
sort, but he has arrived on the scene of danger at just the right moment to rescue others from
extinction. Of course, an element of luck has entered into these affairs, but for the most
part they simply proved the old saying that an ounce of prevention is better than a pound of
cure. Will had studied the plains as an astronomer studies the heavens. The slightest disarrangement
of the natural order of things caught his eye. With the astronomer, it is a comet or an asteroid
appearing upon a field whose every object has long since been placed and studied; with Will,
it was a feathered headdress where there should have been but tree, or rock, or grass; a moving
figure where nature should have been inanimate.

When seen, those things were calculated as the astronomer calculates the motion of the objects
that he studies. A planet will arrive at a given place at a certain time; an Indian will reach
a ford in a stream in about so many minutes. If there be time to cross before him, it is a
matter of hard driving; if the odds are with the Indian, that is another matter.

A less experienced observer than Will would not have seen the skulking redskins; a less skilled
frontiersman would not have apprehended their design; a less expert driver would not have taken
the running chance for life; a less accurate marksman would not have picked off an Indian with
a rifle while shooting from the top of a swinging, jerking stagecoach.

Will did not hesitate. A warning shout to the passengers, and the whip was laid on, and off
went the horses full speed. Seeing that they had been discovered, the Indians came out into
the open, and ran their ponies for the ford, but the stage was there full five hundred yards
before them. It was characteristic of their driver that the horses were suffered to pause at
the creek long enough to get a swallow of water; then, refreshed, they were off at full speed
again.

The coach, creaking in every joint, rocked like a captive balloon, the unhappy passengers were
hurled from one side of the vehicle to the other, flung into one another's laps, and occasionally,
when some uncommon obstacle sought to check the flying coach, their heads collided with its
roof. The Indians menaced them without, cracked skulls seemed their fate within.

Will plied the whip relentlessly, and so nobly did the powerful horses respond that the Indians
gained but slowly on them. There were some fifty redskins in the band, but Will assumed that
if he could reach the relay station, the two stock-tenders there, with himself, Lieutenant
Flowers, and the passengers, would be more than a match for the marauders.

When the pursuers drew within fair rifle range, Will handed the reins to the lieutenant, swung
round in his seat, and fired at the chief.

"There," shouted one of the passengers, "that fellow with the feathers is shot!" and another
fusillade from the coach interior drove holes in the air.

The relay station was now hard by, and attracted by the firing, the stock-tenders came forth
to take a hand in the engagement. Disheartened by the fall of their chief, the Indians weakened
at the sign of reinforcements, and gave up the pursuit.

Lieutenant Flowers and two of the passengers were wounded, but Will could not repress a smile
at the excited assurance of one of his fares that they (the passengers) had "killed one Indian
and driven the rest back." The stock-tenders smiled also, but said nothing. It would have been
too bad to spoil such a good story.

The gravest fears for the safety of the coach had been expressed when it was known that the
reds were on the war-path; it was not thought possible that it could get through unharmed,
and troops were sent out to scour the country. These, while too late to render service in the
adventure just related, did good work during the remainder of the winter. The Indians were
thoroughly subdued, and Will saw no more of them.

There was no other adventure of special note until February. Just before Will started on his
run, Trotter took him to one side and advised him that a small fortune was going by the coach
that day, and extra vigilance was urged, as the existence of the treasure might have become known.

"I'll do the best I can," said Will; and he had scarcely driven away when he suspected the
two ill-favored passengers he carried. The sudden calling away of the conductor, whereby he
was left alone, was a suspicious circumstance. He properly decided that it would be wiser for
him to hold up his passengers than to let them hold up him, and he proceeded to take time by
the forelock. He stopped the coach, jumped down, and examined the harness as if something was
wrong; then he stepped to the coach door and asked his passengers to hand him a rope that was
inside. As they complied, they looked into the barrels of two cocked revolvers.

"Hands up!" said Will.

"What's the matter with you?" demanded one of the pair, as their arms were raised.

"Thought I'd come in first--that's all," was the answer.

The other was not without appreciation of humor.

"You're a cute one, youngster," said he, "but you'll find more'n your match down the road,
or I miss my guess."

"I'll look after that when I get to it," said Will. "Will you oblige me by tying your friend's
hands? Thank you. Now throw out your guns. That all? All right. Let me see your hands."

When both outlaws had been securely trussed up and proven to be disarmed, the journey was resumed.
The remark dropped by one of the pair was evidence that they were part of the gang. He must
reach the relay station before the attack. If he could do that, he had a plan for farther on.

The relay station was not far away, and was safely reached. The prisoners were turned over
to the stock-tenders, and then Will disposed of the treasure against future molestation. He
cut open one of the cushions of the coach, taking out part of the filling, and in the cavity
thus made stored everything of value, including his own watch and pocketbook; then the filling
was replaced and the hole smoothed to a natural appearance.

If there were more in the gang, he looked for them at the ford where the Indians had sought
to cut him off, and he was not disappointed. As he drew near the growth of willows that bordered
the road, half a dozen men with menacing rifles stepped out.

"Halt, or you're a dead man!" was the conventional salutation, in this case graciously received.

"Well, what do you want?" asked Will.

"The boodle you carry. Fork it over!"

"Gentlemen," said Will, smiling, "this is a case where it takes a thief to catch a thief."

"What's that?" cried one of the outlaws, his feelings outraged by the frank description.

"Not that I'm the thief," continued Will, "but your pals were one too many for you this time."

"Did they rob you?" howled the gang in chorus, shocked by such depravity on the part of their
comrades.

"If there's anything left in the coach worth having, don't hesitate to take it," offered Will,
pleasantly.

"Where's your strong-box?" demanded the outlaws, loath to believe there was no honor among thieves.

Will drew it forth and exposed its melancholy emptiness. The profanity that ensued was positively
shocking.

"Where did they hold you up?" demanded the leader of the gang.

"Eight or nine miles back. You'll find some straw in the road. You can have that, too."

"Were there horses to meet them?"

"On foot the last I saw them."

"Then we can catch 'em, boys," shouted the leader, hope upspringing in his breast. "Come, let's
be off!"

They started for the willows on the jump, and presently returned, spurring their horses.

"Give them my regards!" shouted Will. But only the thud! thud! of horsehoofs answered him.
Retribution was sweeping like a hawk upon its prey.

Will pushed along to the end of his run, and handed over his trust undisturbed. Fearing that
his ruse might have been discovered, he put the "extra vigilance" urged by Trotter into the
return trip, but the trail was deserted. He picked up the prisoners at the relay station and
carried them to Fort Kearny. If their companions were to discover the sorry trick played upon
them, they would have demanded his life as a sacrifice.

At the end of this exciting trip he found a letter from Miss Frederici awaiting him. She urged
him to give up the wild life he was leading, return East, and find another calling. This was
precisely what Will himself had in mind, and persuasion was not needed. In his reply he asked
that the wedding-day be set, and then he handed Trotter his resignation from the lofty perch
of a stage-driver.

"I don't like to let you go," objected Trotter.

"But," said Will, "I took the job only in order to save enough money to get married on."

"In that case," said Trotter, "I have nothing to do but wish you joy."

CHAPTER XV. -- WILL AS A BENEDICT.

WHEN Will reached home, he found another letter from Miss Frederici, who, agreeably to his
request, had fixed the wedding-day, March 6, 1866.

The wedding ceremony was quietly performed at the home of the bride, and the large number of
friends that witnessed it united in declaring that no handsomer couple ever bowed for Hymen's
benediction.

The bridal journey was a trip to Leavenworth on a Missouri steamer. At that time there was
much travel by these boats, and their equipment was first-class. They were sumptuously fitted
out, the table was excellent, and except when sectional animosities disturbed the serenity
of their decks, a trip on one of them was a very pleasant excursion.

The young benedict soon discovered, however, that in war times the "trail of the serpent" is
liable to be over all things; even a wedding journey is not exempt from the baneful influence
of sectional animosity. A party of excursionists on board the steamer manifested so extreme
an interest in the bridal couple that Louise retired to a stateroom to escape their rudeness.
After her withdrawal, Will entered into conversation with a gentleman from Indiana, who had
been very polite to him, and asked him if he knew the reason for the insolence of the excursion
party. The gentleman hesitated a moment, and then answered:

"To tell the truth, Mr. Cody, these men are Missourians, and say they recognize you as one
of Jennison's Jayhawkers; that you were an enemy of the South, and are, therefore, an enemy
of theirs."

Will answered, steadily: "I was a soldier during the war, and a scout in the Union army, but
I had some experience of Southern chivalry before that time." And he related to the Indianian
some of the incidents of the early Kansas border warfare, in which he and his father had played
so prominent a part.

The next day the insolent behavior was continued. Will was much inclined to resent it, but
his wife pleaded so earnestly with him to take no notice of it that he ignored it.

In the afternoon, when the boat landed at a lonely spot to wood up, the Missourians seemed
greatly excited, and all gathered on the guards and anxiously scanned the riverbank.

The roustabouts were just about to make the boat fast, when a party of armed horsemen dashed
out of the woods and galloped toward the landing. The captain thought the boat was to be attacked,
and hastily gave orders to back out, calling the crew on board at the same time. These orders
the negroes lost no time in obeying, as they often suffered severely at the hands of these
reckless marauders. The leader of the horsemen rode rapidly up, firing at random. As he neared
the steamer he called out, "Where is that Kansas Jayhawker? We have come for him." The other
men caught sight of Will, and one of them cried, "We know you, Bill Cody." But they were too
late. Already the steamer was backing away from the shore, dragging her gang-plank through
the water; the negro roustabouts were too much terrified to pull it in. When the attacking
party saw their plans were frustrated, and that they were balked of their prey, they gave vent
to their disappointment in yells of rage. A random volley was fired at the retreating steamer,
but it soon got out of range, and continued on its way up the river.

Will had prepared himself for the worst; he stood, revolver in hand, at the head of the steps,
ready to dispute the way with his foes.

There was also a party of old soldiers on board, six or eight in number; they were dressed
in civilians' garb, and Will knew nothing of them; but when they heard of their comrade's predicament,
they hastily prepared to back up the young scout. Happily the danger was averted, and their
services were not called into requisition. The remainder of the trip was made without unpleasant
incident.

It was afterward learned that as soon as the Missourians became aware of the presence of the
Union scout on board, they telegraphed ahead to the James and Younger brothers that Will was
aboard the boat, and asked to have a party meet it at this secluded landing, and capture and
carry off the young soldier. Will feared that Louise might be somewhat disheartened by such
an occurrence on the bridal trip, but the welcome accorded the young couple on their arrival
at Leavenworth was flattering enough to make amends for all unpleasant incidents. The young
wife found that her husband numbered his friends by the score in his own home; and in the grand
reception tendered them he was the lion of the hour.

Entreated by Louise to abandon the plains and pursue a vocation along more peaceful paths,
Will conceived the idea of taking up the business in which mother had won financial success--that
of landlord. The house she had built was purchased after her death by Dr. Crook, a surgeon
in the Seventh Kansas Regiment. It was now for rent, which fact no doubt decided Will in his
choice of an occupation. It was good to live again under the roof that had sheltered his mother
in her last days; it was good to see the young wife amid the old scenes. So Will turned boniface,
and invited May and me to make our home with him.

There was a baby in Julia's home, and it had so wound itself around May's heartstrings that
she could not be enticed away; but there was never anybody who could supplant Will in my heart;
so I gladly accepted his invitation.

Thoreau has somewhere drawn a sympathetic portrait of the Landlord, who is supposed to radiate
hospitality as the sun throws off heat--as its own reward--and who feeds and lodges men purely
from a love of the creatures. Yet even such a landlord, if he is to continue long in business,
must have an eye to profit, and make up in one corner what he parts with in another. Now, Will
radiated hospitality, and his reputation as a lover of his fellowman got so widely abroad that
travelers without money and without price would go miles out of their way to put up at his
tavern. Socially, he was an irreproachable landlord; financially, his shortcomings were deplorable.

And then the life of an innkeeper, while not without its joys and opportunities to love one's
fellowman, is somewhat prosaic, and our guests oftentimes remarked an absent, far-away expression
in the eyes of Landlord Cody. He was thinking of the plains. Louise also remarked that expression,
and the sympathy she felt for his yearnings was accentuated by an examination of the books
of the hostelry at the close of the first six months' business. Half smiling, half tearful,
she consented to his return to his Western life.

Will disposed of the house and settled his affairs, and when all the bills were paid, and Sister
Lou and I cozily ensconced in a little home at Leavenworth, we found that Will's generous thought
for our comfort through the winter had left him on the beach financially. He had planned a
freighting trip on his own account, but the acquiring of a team, wagon, and the rest of the
outfit presented a knotty problem when he counted over the few dollars left on hand.

For the first time I saw disappointment and discouragement written on his face, and I was sorely
distressed, for he had never denied me a desire that he could gratify, and it was partly on
my account that he was not in better financial condition. I was not yet sixteen; it would be
two years more before I could have a say as to the disposition of my own money, yet something
must be done at once.

I decided to lay the matter before Lawyer Douglass. Surely he could suggest some plan whereby
I might assist my brother. I had a half-matured plan of my own, but I was assured that Will
would not listen to it.

Mr. Douglass had been the legal adviser of the family since he won our first lawsuit, years
before. We considered the problem from every side, and the lawyer suggested that Mr. Buckley,
an old friend of the family, had a team and wagon for sale; they were strong and serviceable,
and just the thing that Will would likely want. I was a minor, but if Mr. Buckley was willing
to accept me as security for the property, there would be no difficulty in making the transfer.

Mr. Buckley proved entirely agreeable to the proposition. Will could have the outfit in return
for his note with my indorsement.

That disposed of, the question of freight to put into the wagon arose. I thought of another
old friend of the family, M. E. Albright, a wholesale grocer in Leavenworth. Would he trust
Will for a load of supplies? He would.

Thus everything was arranged satisfactorily, and I hastened home to not the easiest task--to
prevail upon Will to accept assistance at the hands of the little sister who, not so long ago,
had employed his aid in the matter of a pair of shoes.

But Will could really do nothing save accept, and proud and happy, he sallied forth one day
as an individual freighter, though not a very formidable rival of Russell, Majors & Waddell.

Alas for enterprises started on borrowed capital! How many of them end in disaster, leaving
their projectors not only penniless, but in debt. Our young frontiersman, whose life had been
spent in protecting the property of others, was powerless to save his own. Wagon, horses, and
freight were all captured by Indians, and their owner barely escaped with his life. From a
safe covert he watched the redskins plunge him into bankruptcy. It took him several years to
recover, and he has often remarked that the responsibility of his first business venture on
borrowed capital aged him prematurely.

The nearest station to the scene of this disaster was Junction City, and thither he tramped,
in the hope of retrieving his fortunes. There he met Colonel Hickok, and in the pleasure of
the greeting forgot his business ruin for a space. The story of his marriage and his stirring
adventures as a landlord and lover of his fellowman were first to be related, and when these
were commented upon, and his old friend had learned, too, of the wreck of the freighting enterprise,
there came the usual inquiry:

"And now, do you know of a job with some money in it?"

"There isn't exactly a fortune in it," said Wild Bill, "but I'm scouting for Uncle Sam at Fort
Ellsworth. The commandant needs more scouts, and I can vouch for you as a good one."

"All right," said Will, always quick in decision; "I'll go along with you, and apply for a
job at once."

He was pleased to have Colonel Hickok's recommendation, but it turned out that he did not need
it, as his own reputation had preceded him. The commandant of the fort was glad to add him
to the force. The territory he had to scout over lay between Forts Ellsworth and Fletcher,
and he alternated between those points throughout the winter.

It was at Fort Fletcher, in the spring of 1867, that he fell in with the dashing General Custer,
and the friendship established between them was ended only by the death of the general at the
head of his gallant three hundred.

This spring was an exceedingly wet one, and the fort, which lay upon the bank of Big Creek,
was so damaged by floods that it was abandoned. A new fort was erected, some distance to the
westward, on the south fork of the creek, and was named Fort Hayes.

Returning one day from an extended scouting trip, Will discovered signs indicating that Indians
in considerable force were in the neighborhood. He at once pushed forward at all speed to report
the news, when a second discovery took the wind out of his sails; the hostiles were between
him and the fort.

At that moment a party of horsemen broke into view, and seeing they were white men, Will waited
their approach. The little band proved to be General Custer and an escort of ten, en route
from Fort Ellsworth to Fort Hayes.

Informed by Will that they were cut off by Indians, and that the only hope of escape lay in
a rapid flank movement, Custer's reply was a terse:

"Lead on, scout, and we'll follow."

Will wheeled, clapped spurs to his horse, and dashed away, with the others close behind. All
hands were sufficiently versed in Indian warfare to appreciate the seriousness of their position.
They pursued a roundabout trail, and reached the fort without seeing a hostile, but learned
from the reports of others that their escape had been a narrow one.

Custer was on his way to Larned, sixty miles distant, and he needed a guide. He requested that
Will be assigned to the position, so pleased was he by the service already rendered.

"The very man I proposed to send with you, General," said the commandant, who knew well the
keen desire of the Indians to get at "Yellow Hair," as they called Custer. "Cody knows this
part of the country like a book; he is up to all the Indian games, and he is as full of resources
as a nut is of meat."

At daybreak the start was made, and it was planned to cover the sixty miles before nightfall.
Will was mounted on a mouse-colored mule, to which he was much attached, and in which he had
every confidence. Custer, however, was disposed to regard the lowly steed in some disdain.

"Do you think, Cody, that mule can set the pace to reach Larned in a day?" he asked.

"When you get to Larned, General," smiled Will, "the mule and I will be with you."

Custer said no more for a while, but the pace he set was eloquent, and the mouse-colored mule
had to run under "forced draught" to keep up with the procession. It was a killing pace, too,
for the horses, which did not possess the staying power of the mule. Will was half regretting
that he had ridden the animal, and was wondering how he could crowd on another pound or two
of steam, when, suddenly glancing at Custer, he caught a gleam of mischief in the general's
eye. Plainly the latter was seeking to compel an acknowledgment of error, but Will only patted
the mouse-colored flanks.

Fifteen miles were told off; Custer's thoroughbred horse was still in fine fettle, but the
mule had got the second of its three or four winds, and was ready for a century run.

"Can you push along a little faster, General?" asked Will, slyly.

"If that mule of yours can stand it, go ahead," was the reply.

To the general's surprise, the long-eared animal did go ahead, and when the party got into
the hills, and the traveling grew heavy, it set a pace that seriously annoyed the general's
thoroughbred.

Fifteen miles more were pounded out, and a halt was called for luncheon. The horses needed
the rest, but the mouse-colored mule wore an impatient expression. Having got its third wind,
it wanted to use it.

"Well, General," said Will, when they swung off on the trail again, "what do you think of my
mount?"

Custer laughed. "It's not very handsome," said he, "but it seems to know what it's about, and
so does the rider. You're a fine guide, Cody. Like the Indian, you seem to go by instinct,
rather than by trails and landmarks."

The praise of Custer was sweeter to the young scout than that of any other officer on the plains
would have been.

At just four o'clock the mouse-colored mule jogged into Fort Larned and waved a triumphant
pair of ears. A short distance behind rode Custer, on a thoroughly tired thoroughbred, while
the escort was strung along the trail for a mile back.

"Cody," laughed the general, "that remarkable quadruped of yours looks equal to a return trip.
Our horses are pretty well fagged out, but we have made a quick trip and a good one. You brought
us 'cross country straight as the crow flies, and that's the sort of service I appreciate.
Any time you're in need of work, report to me. I'll see that you're kept busy."

It was Custer's intention to remain at Fort Larned for some time, and Will, knowing that he
was needed at Hayes, tarried only for supper and a short rest before starting back.

When night fell, he proceeded warily. On the way out he had directed Custer's attention to
signs denoting the near-by presence of a small band of mounted Indians.

Suddenly a distant light flashed into view, but before he could check his mule it had vanished.
He rode back a few paces, and the light reappeared. Evidently it was visible through some narrow
space, and the matter called for investigation. Will dismounted, hitched his mule, and went
forward.

After he had covered half a mile, he found himself between two sandhills, the pass leading
into a little hollow, within which were a large number of Indians camped around the fire whose
light he had followed. The ponies were in the background.

Will's position was somewhat ticklish, as, without a doubt, an Indian sentinel was posted in
the pass; yet it was his duty, as he understood it, to obtain a measurably accurate estimate
of the number of warriors in the band. Himself a very Indian in stealth, he drew nearer the
camp-fire, when suddenly there rang out upon the night air--not a rifle-shot, but the unearthly
braying of his mule.

Even in the daylight, amid scenes of peace and tranquillity, the voice of a mule falls short
of the not enchanting music of the bagpipe. At night in the wilderness, when every nerve is
keyed up to the snapping-point, the sound is simply appalling.

Will was startled, naturally, but the Indians were thrown into dire confusion. They smothered
the campfires and scattered for cover, while a sentinel sprang up from behind a rock not twenty
feet from Will, and was off like a deer.

The scout held his ground till he had made a good guess at the number of Indians in the party;
then he ran for his mule, whose voice, raised in seeming protest, guided him unerringly.

As he neared the animal he saw that two mounted Indians had laid hold of it, and were trying
to induce it to follow them; but the mule, true to tradition and its master, stubbornly refused
to budge a foot.

It was a comical tableau, but Will realized that it was but a step from farce to tragedy. A
rifle-shot dropped one of the Indians, and the other darted off into the darkness.

Another bray from the mule, this time a paean of triumph, as Will jumped into the saddle, with
an arrow from the bow of the wounded Indian through his coat-sleeve. He declined to return
the fire of the wounded wretch, and rode away into the timber, while all around the sound of
Indians in pursuit came to his ears.

"Now, my mouse-colored friend," said Will, "if you win this race your name is Custer."

The mule seemed to understand; at all events, it settled down to work that combined the speed
of a racer with the endurance of a buffalo. The Indians shortly abandoned the pursuit, as they
could not see their game.

Will reached Fort Hayes in the early morning, to report the safe arrival of Custer at Larned
and the discovery of the Indian band, which he estimated at two hundred braves. The mule received
"honorable mention" in his report, and was brevetted a thoroughbred.

The colonel prepared to dispatch troops against the Indians, and requested Will to guide the
expedition, if he were sufficiently rested, adding, with a smile:

"You may ride your mule if you like."

"No, thank you," laughed Will. "It isn't safe, sir, to hunt Indians with an animal that carries
a brass-band attachment."

Captain George A. Armes, of the Tenth Cavalry, was to command the expedition, which comprised
a troop of colored cavalry and a howitzer. As the command lined up for the start, a courier
on a foam-splashed horse rode up with the news that the workmen on the Kansas Pacific Railroad
had been attacked by Indians, six of them killed, and over a hundred horses and mules and a
quantity of stores stolen.

The troops rode away, the colored boys panting for a chance at the redskins, and Captain Armes
more than willing to gratify them.

At nightfall the command made camp near the Saline River, at which point it was expected to
find the Indians. Before dawn they were in the saddle again, riding straight across country,
regardless of trails, until the river was come up with.

Will's judgment was again verified by the discovery of a large camp of hostiles on the opposite
bank of the stream. The warriors were as quick of eye, and as they greatly outnumbered the
soldiers, and were emboldened by the success of their late exploit, they did not wait the attack,
but came charging across the river.

They were nearly a mile distant, and Captain Armes had time to plant the howitzer on a little
rise of ground. Twenty men were left to handle it. The rest of the command advanced to the combat.

They were just at the point of attack when a fierce yelling was heard in the rear, and the
captain discovered that his retreat to the gun was cut off by another band of reds, and that
he was between two fires. His only course was to repulse the enemy in front. If this were done,
and the colored gunners did not flee before the overwhelming numbers, he might unite his forces
by another charge.

The warriors came on with their usual impetuosity, whooping and screaming, but they met such
a raking fire from the disciplined troops that they fell back in disorder. Just then the men
at the howitzer opened fire. The effect of this field-piece on the children of the plains was
magical--almost ludicrous. A veritable stampede followed.

"Follow me!" shouted Captain Armes, galloping in pursuit; but in their eagerness to give chase
the troops fell into such disorder that a bugle-blast recalled them before any further damage
was done the flying foe. The Indians kept right along, however; they were pretty badly frightened.

Captain Armes was somewhat chagrined that he had no prisoners, but there was consolation in
taking back nearly all the horses that had been stolen. These were found picketed at the camp
across the river, where likely they had been forgotten by the Indians in their flight.

Shortly after this, Will tried his hand at land speculation. During one of his scouting trips
to Fort Harker, he visited Ellsworth, a new settlement, three miles from the fort. There he
met a man named Rose, who had a grading contract for the Kansas Pacific Railroad, near Fort
Hayes. Rose had bought land at a point through which the railroad was to run, and proposed
staking it out as a town, but he needed a partner in the enterprise.

The site was a good one. Big Creek was hard by, and it was near enough to the fort to afford
settlers reasonable security against Indian raids. Will regarded the enterprise favorably.
Besides the money sent home each month, he had put by a small sum, and this he invested in
the partnership with Rose.

The town site was surveyed and staked off into lots; a cabin was erected, and stocked with
such goods as are needed on the frontier, and the budding metropolis was weighted with the
classic name of Rome.

As an encouragement to settlers, a lot was offered to any one that would agree to erect a building.
The proprietors, of course, reserved the choicest lots.

Rome boomed. Two hundred cabins went up in less than sixty days. Mr. Rose and Will shook hands
and complimented each other on their penetration and business sagacity. They were coming millionaires,
they said. Alas! they were but babes in the woods.

One day Dr. W. E. Webb alighted in Rome. He was a gentleman of most amiable exterior, and when
he entered the store of Rose & Cody they prepared to dispose of a large bill of goods. But
Dr. Webb was not buying groceries. He chatted a while about the weather and Rome, and then
suggested that the firm needed a third partner. But this was the last thing the prospective
millionaires had in mind, and the suggestion of their visitor was mildly but firmly waived.

Dr. Webb was not a gentleman to insist upon a suggestion. He was locating towns for the Kansas
Pacific Railroad, he said, and as Rome was well started, he disliked to interfere with it;
but, really, the company must have a show.

Neither Mr. Rose nor Will had had experience with the power of a big corporation, and satisfied
that they had the only good site for a town in that vicinity, they declared that the railroad
could not help itself.

Dr. Webb smiled pleasantly, and not without compassion. "Look out for yourselves," said he,
as he took his leave.

And within sight of Rome he located a new town. The citizens of Rome were given to understand
that the railroad shops would be built at the new settlement, and that there was really nothing
to prevent it becoming the metropolis of Kansas.

Rome became a wilderness. Its citizens stampeded to the new town, and Mr. Rose and Will revised
their estimate of their penetration and business sagacity.

Meantime, the home in Leavenworth had been gladdened by the birth of a little daughter, whom
her father named Arta. As it was impossible for Will to return for some months, it was planned
that the mother, the baby, and I should make a visit to the St. Louis home. This was accomplished
safely; and while the grandparents were enraptured with the baby, I was enjoying the delight
of a first visit to a large city.

While the new town of Rome was regarded as an assured success by Will, he had journeyed to
St. Louis after his wife and little one. They proceeded with him to the cozy cabin home he
had fitted up, while I went back to Leavenworth.

After the fall of Rome the little frontier home was no longer the desirable residence that
Will's dreams had pictured it, and as Rome passed into oblivion the little family returned
to St. Louis.

CHAPTER XVI. -- HOW THE SOBRIQUET OF "BUFFALO BILL" WAS WON.

IN frontier days a man had but to ask for work to get it. There was enough and to spare for
every one. The work that paid best was the kind that suited Will, it mattered not how hard
or dangerous it might be.

At the time Rome fell, the work on the Kansas Pacific Railroad was pushing forward at a rapid
rate, and the junior member of the once prosperous firm of Rose & Cody saw a new field of activity
open for him--that of buffalo-hunting. Twelve hundred men were employed on the railroad construction,
and Goddard Brothers, who had undertaken to board the vast crew, were hard pressed to obtain
fresh meat. To supply this indispensable, buffalo-hunters were employed, and as Will was known
to be an expert buffalo-slayer, Goddard Brothers were glad to add him to their "commissary
staff." His contract with them called for en average of twelve buffaloes daily, for which he
was to receive five hundred dollars a month. It was "good pay," the desired feature, but the
work was hard and hazardous. He must first scour the country for his game, with a good prospect
always of finding Indians instead of buffalo; then, when the game was shot, he must oversee
its cutting and dressing, and look after the wagons that transported it to the camp where the
workmen messed. It was while working under this contract that he acquired the sobriquet of
"Buffalo Bill." It clung to him ever after, and he wore it with more pride than he would have
done the title of prince or grand duke. Probably there are thousands of people to-day who know
him by that name only.

At the outset he procured a trained buffalo-hunting horse, which went by the unconventional
name of "Brigham," and from the government he obtained an improved breech-loading needle-gun,
which, in testimony of its murderous qualities, he named "Lucretia Borgia."

Buffaloes were usually plentiful enough, but there were times when the camp supply of meat
ran short. During one of these dull spells, when the company was pressed for horses, Brigham
was hitched to a scraper. One can imagine his indignation. A racer dragging a street-car would
have no more just cause for rebellion than a buffalo-hunter tied to a work implement in the
company of stupid horses that never had a thought above a plow, a hay-rake, or a scraper. Brigham
expostulated, and in such plain language, that Will, laughing, was on the point of unhitching
him, when a cry went up--the equivalent of a whaler's "There she blows!"--that a herd of buffaloes
was coming over the hill.

Brigham and the scraper parted company instantly, and Will mounted him bareback, the saddle
being at the camp, a mile away. Shouting an order to the men to follow him with a wagon to
take back the meat, he galloped toward the game.

There were other hunters that day. Five officers rode out from the neighboring fort, and joined
Will while waiting for the buffaloes to come up. They were recent arrivals in that part of
the country, and their shoulder-straps indicated that one was a captain and the others were
lieutenants. They did not know "Buffalo Bill." They saw nothing but a good-looking young fellow,
in the dress of a working man, astride a not handsome horse, which had a blind bridle and no
saddle. It was not a formidable-looking hunting outfit, and the captain was disposed to be
a trifle patronizing.

"Hello!" he called out. "I see you're after the same game we are."

"Yes, sir," returned Will. "Our camp's out of fresh meat."

The officer ran a critical eye over Brigham. "Do you expect to run down a buffalo with a horse
like that?" said he.

"Why," said Will, innocently, "are buffaloes pretty speedy?"

"Speedy? It takes a fast horse to overhaul those animals on the open prairie."

"Does it?" said Will; and the officer did not see the twinkle in his eye. Nothing amuses a
man more than to be instructed on a matter that he knows thoroughly, and concerning which his
instructor knows nothing. Probably every one of the officers had yet to shoot his first buffalo.

"Come along with us," offered the captain, graciously. "We're going to kill a few for sport,
and all we care for are the tongues and a chunk of the tenderloin; you can have the rest."

"Thank you," said Will. "I'll follow along."

There were eleven buffaloes in the herd, and the officers started after them as if they had
a sure thing on the entire number. Will noticed that the game was pointed toward a creek, and
understanding "the nature of the beast," started for the water, to head them off.

As the herd went past him, with the military quintet five hundred yards in the rear, he gave
Brigham's blind bridle a twitch, and in a few jumps the trained hunter was at the side of the
rear buffalo; Lucretia Borgia spoke, and the buffalo fell dead. Without even a bridle signal,
Brigham was promptly at the side of the next buffalo, not ten feet away, and this, too, fell
at the first shot. The maneuver was repeated until the last buffalo went down. Twelve shots
had been fired; then Brigham, who never wasted his strength, stopped. The officers had not
had even a shot at the game. Astonishment was written on their faces as they rode up.

"Gentlemen," said Will, courteously, as he dismounted, "allow me to present you with eleven
tongues and as much of the tenderloin as you wish."

"By Jove!" exclaimed the captain, "I never saw anything like that before. Who are you, anyway?"

"Bill Cody's my name."

"Well, Bill Cody, you know how to kill buffalo, and that horse of yours has some good running
points, after all."

"One or two," smiled Will.

Captain Graham--as his name proved to be--and his companions were a trifle sore over missing
even the opportunity of a shot, but they professed to be more than repaid for their disappointment
by witnessing a feat they had not supposed possible in a white man--hunting buffalo without
a saddle, bridle, or reins. Will explained that Brigham knew more about the business than most
two-legged hunters. All the rider was expected to do was to shoot the buffalo. If the first
shot failed, Brigham allowed another; if this, too, failed, Brigham lost patience, and was
as likely as not to drop the matter then and there.

It was this episode that fastened the name of "Buffalo Bill" upon Will, and learning of it,
the friends of Billy Comstock, chief of scouts at Fort Wallace, filed a protest. Comstock,
they said, was Cody's superior as a buffalo hunter. So a match was arranged to determine whether
it should be "Buffalo Bill" Cody or "Buffalo Bill" Comstock.

The hunting-ground was fixed near Sheridan, Kansas, and quite a crowd of spectators was attracted
by the news of the contest. Officers, soldiers, plainsmen, and railroadmen took a day off to
see the sport, and one excursion party, including many ladies, among them Louise, came up from
St. Louis.

Referees were appointed to follow each man and keep a tally of the buffaloes slain. Comstock
was mounted on his favorite horse, and carried a Henry rifle of large caliber. Brigham and
Lucretia went with Will. The two hunters rode side by side until the first herd was sighted
and the word given, when off they dashed to the attack, separating to the right and left. In
this first trial Will killed thirty-eight and Comstock twenty-three. They had ridden miles,
and the carcasses of the dead buffaloes were strung all over the prairie. Luncheon was served
at noon, and scarcely was it over when another herd was sighted, composed mainly of cows with
their calves. The damage to this herd was eighteen and fourteen, in favor of Cody.

In those days the prairies were alive with buffaloes, and a third herd put in an appearance
before the rifle-barrels were cooled. In order to give Brigham a share of the glory, Will pulled
off saddle and bridle, and advanced bareback to the slaughter.

That closed the contest. Score, sixty-nine to forty-eight. Comstock's friends surrendered,
and Cody was dubbed "Champion Buffalo Hunter of the Plains."

The heads of the buffaloes that fell in this hunt were mounted by the Kansas Pacific Company,
and distributed about the country, as advertisements of the region the new road was traversing.
Meanwhile, Will continued hunting for the Kansas Pacific contractors, and during the year and
a half that he supplied them with fresh meat he killed four thousand two hundred and eighty
buffaloes. But when the railroad reached Sheridan it was decided to build no farther at that
time, and Will was obliged to look for other work.

The Indians had again become so troublesome that a general war threatened all along the border,
and General P. H. Sheridan came West to personally direct operations. He took up his quarters
at Fort Leavenworth, but the Indian depredations becoming more widespread, he transferred his
quarters to Fort Hayes, then the terminus of the Kansas Pacific Railroad. Will was then in
the employ of the quartermaster's department at Fort Larned, but was sent with an important
dispatch to General Sheridan announcing that the Indians near Larned were preparing to decamp.
The distance between Larned and Hayes was sixty-five miles, through a section infested with
Indians, but Will tackled it, and reached the commanding General without mishap.

Shortly afterward it became necessary to send dispatches from Fort Hayes to Fort Dodge. Ninety-five
miles of country lay between, and every mile of it was dangerous ground. Fort Dodge was surrounded
by Indians, and three scouts had lately been killed while trying to get dispatches through,
but Will's confidence in himself or his destiny was unshakable, and he volunteered to take
the dispatches, as far, at least, as the Indians would let him.

"It is a dangerous undertaking," said General Sheridan, "but it is most important that the
dispatches should go through; so, if you are willing to risk it, take the best horse you can
find, and the sooner you start the better."

Within an hour the scout was in the saddle. At the outset Will permitted his horse to set his
own pace, for in case of pursuit he should want the animal fresh enough to at least hold his
own. But no pursuit materialized, and when the dawn came up he had covered seventy miles, and
reached a station on Coon Creek, manned by colored troops. Here he delivered a letter to Major
Cox, the officer in command, and after eating breakfast, took a fresh horse, and resumed his
journey before the sun was above the plain.

Fort Dodge was reached, the dispatches delivered by nine o'clock, and Will turned in for a
needed sleep. When he awoke, he was assured by John Austin, chief of the scouts at Dodge, that
his coming through unharmed from Fort Hayes was little short of a miracle. He was also assured
that a journey to his own headquarters, Fort Larned, would be even more ticklish than his late
ride, as the hostiles were especially thick in that direction. But the officer in command at
Dodge desired to send dispatches to Larned, and as none of the other scouts were willing to
take them, Will volunteered his services.

"Larned's my headquarters," said he, "and I must go there anyway; so if you'll give me a good
horse, I'll take your dispatches."

"We haven't a decent horse left," said the officer; "but you can take your pick of some fine
government mules."

Will made a gesture of despair. Another race on mule-back with Indians was not an inviting
prospect. There were very few mules like unto his quondam mouse-colored mount. But he succumbed
to the inevitable, picked out the most enterprising looking mule in the bunch, and set forth.
And neither he nor the mule guessed what was in store for each of them.

At Coon Creek Will dismounted for a drink of water, and the mule embraced the opportunity to
pull away, and start alone on the wagon-trail to Larned. Will did not suspect that he should
have any trouble in overtaking the capricious beast, but at the end of a mile he was somewhat
concerned. He had threatened and entreated, raged and cajoled. 'Twas all wasted. The mule was
as deaf to prayer as to objurgation. It browsed contentedly along the even tenor of its way,
so near and yet so far from the young man, who, like "panting time, toil'd after it in vain."
And Larned much more than twenty miles away.

What the poet calls "the golden exhalations of the dawn" began to warm the gray of the plain.
The sun was in the roots of the grass. Four miles away the lights of Larned twinkled. The only
blot on a fair landscape was the mule--in the middle distance. But there was a wicked gleam
in the eye of the footsore young man in the foreground.

Boom! The sunrise gun at the fort. The mule threw back its head, waved its ears, and poured
forth a song of triumph, a loud, exultant bray.

Crack! Will's rifle. Down went the mule. It had made the fatal mistake of gloating over its
villainy. Never again would it jeopardize the life of a rider.

It had been a thirty-five-mile walk, and every bone in Will's body ached. His shot alarmed
the garrison, but he was soon on the ground with the explanation; and after turning over his
dispatches, he sought his bed.

During the day General Hazen returned, under escort, from Fort Harker, with dispatches for
Sheridan, and Will offered to be the bearer of them. An army mule was suggested, but he declined
to again put his life in the keeping of such an animal. A good horse was selected, and the
journey made without incident.

General Sheridan was roused at daylight to receive the scout's report and praised Will warmly
for having undertaken and safely accomplished three such long and dangerous rides.

"In all," says General Sheridan, in his Memoirs, "Cody rode three hundred and fifty miles in
less than sixty hours, and such an exhibition of endurance and courage was more than enough
to convince me that his services would be extremely valuable in the campaign; so I retained
him at Fort Hayes until the battalion of Fifth Cavalry arrived, and then made him chief of
scouts for that regiment."

CHAPTER XVII. -- SATANTA, CHIEF OF THE KIOWAS.

WITHIN plain view of Fort Larned lay a large camp of Kiowas and Comanches. They were not yet
bedaubed with war paint, but they were as restless as panthers in a cage, and it was only a
matter of days when they would whoop and howl with the loudest.

The principal chief of the Kiowas was Satanta, a powerful and resourceful warrior, who, because
of remarkable talents for speech-making, was called "The Orator of the Plains." Satanta was
short and bullet-headed. Hatred for the whites swelled every square inch of his breast, but
he had the deep cunning of his people, with some especially fine points of treachery learned
from dealings with dishonest agents and traders. There probably never was an Indian so depraved
that he could not be corrupted further by association with a rascally white man.

When the Kiowas were friendly with the government, Satanta received a guest with all the magnificence
the tribe afforded. A carpet was spread for the white man to sit upon, and a folding board
was set up for a table. The question of expense never intruded.

Individually, too, Satanta put on a great deal of style. Had the opportunity come to him, he
would have worn a silk hat with a sack-coat, or a dress suit in the afternoon. As it was, he
produced some startling effects with blankets and feathers.

It was part of General Hazen's mission to Fort Larned to patch up a treaty with the outraged
Kiowas and Comanches, if it could be brought about. On one warm August morning, the general
set out for Fort Zarah, on a tour of inspection. Zarah was on the Arkansas, in what is now
Barton County, Kansas. An early start was made, as it was desired to cover the thirty miles
by noon. The general rode in a four-mule army ambulance, with an escort of ten foot soldiers,
in a four-mule escort wagon.

After dinner at Zarah the general went on to Fort Harker, leaving orders for the scout and
soldiers to return to Larned on the following day. But as there was nothing to do at Fort Zarah,
Will determined to return at once; so he trimmed the sails of his mule-ship, and squared away
for Larned.

The first half of the journey was without incident, but when Pawnee Rock was reached, events
began to crowd one another. Some forty Indians rode out from behind the rock and surrounded
the scout.

"How? How?" they cried, as they drew near, and offered their hands for the white man's salutation.

The braves were in war paint, and intended mischief; but there was nothing to be lost by returning
their greeting, so Will extended his hand.

One warrior seized it and gave it a violent jerk; another caught the mule's bridle; a third
pulled the revolvers from the holsters; a fourth snatched the rifle from across the saddle;
while a fifth, for a climax, dealt Will a blow on the head with a tomahawk that nearly stunned him.

Then the band started for the Arkansas River, lashing the mule, singing, yelling, and whooping.
For one supposed to be stolid and taciturn, the Indian makes a good deal of noise at times.

Across the river was a vast throng of warriors, who had finally decided to go on the war-path.
Will and his captors forded the shallow stream, and the prisoner was conducted before the chiefs
of the tribe, with some of whom he was acquainted.

His head throbbed from the tomahawking, but his wits were still in working order, and when
asked by Satanta where he had been, he replied that he had been out searching for "whoa-haws."

He knew that the Indians had been promised a herd of "whoa-haws," as they termed cattle, and
he knew, too, that the herd had not arrived, and that the Indians had been out of meat for
several weeks; hence he hoped to enlist Satanta's sympathetic interest.

He succeeded. Satanta was vastly interested. Where were the cattle? Oh, a few miles back. Will
had been sent forward to notify the Indians that an army of sirloin steaks was advancing upon them.

Satanta was much pleased, and the other chiefs were likewise interested. Did General Hazen
say the cattle were for them? Was there a chance that the scout was mistaken?

Not a chance; and with becoming dignity Will demanded a reason for the rough treatment he had
received.

Oh, that was all a joke, Satanta explained. The Indians who had captured the white chief were
young and frisky. They wished to see whether he was brave. They were simply testing him. It
was sport--just a joke.

Will did not offer to argue the matter. No doubt an excellent test of a man's courage is to
hit him over the head with a tomahawk. If he lives through it, he is brave as Agamemnon. But
Will insisted mildly that it was a rough way to treat friends; whereupon Satanta read the riot
act to his high-spirited young men, and bade them return the captured weapons to the scout.

The next question was, were there soldiers with the cattle? Certainly, replied Will; a large
party of soldiers were escorting the succulent sirloins. This intelligence necessitated another
consultation. Evidently hostilities must be postponed until after the cattle had arrived. Would
Will drive the cattle to them? He would be delighted to. Did he desire that the chief's young
men should accompany him? No, indeed. The soldiers, also, were high-spirited, and they might
test the bravery of the chief's young men by shooting large holes in them. It would be much
better if the scout returned alone.

Satanta agreed with him, and Will recrossed the river without molestation; but, glancing over
his shoulder, he noted a party of ten or fifteen young braves slowly following him. Satanta
was an extremely cautious chieftain.

Will rode leisurely up the gentle slope of the river's bank, but when he had put the ridge
between him and the Indian camp he pointed his mule westward, toward Fort Larned, and set it
going at its best pace. When the Indians reached the top of the ridge, from where they could
scan the valley, in which the advancing cattle were supposed to be, there was not a horn to
be seen, and the scout was flying in an opposite direction.

They gave chase, but the mule had a good start, and when it got its second wind--always necessary
in a mule--the Indian ponies gained but slowly. When Ash Creek, six miles from Larned, was
reached, the race was about even, but two miles farther on, the Indians were uncomfortably
close behind. The sunset gun at the fort boomed a cynical welcome to the man four miles away,
flying toward it for his life.

At Pawnee Fork, two miles from the fort, the Indians had crept up to within five hundred yards.
But here, on the farther bank of the stream, Will came upon a government wagon containing half
a dozen soldiers and Denver Jim, a well-known scout.

The team was driven among the trees, and the men hid themselves in the bushes, and when the
Indians came along they were warmly received. Two of the reds were killed; the others wheeled
and rode back in safety.

In 1868 General Sheridan had taken command of all the troops in the field. He arranged what
is known as the winter expeditions against the Kiowas, Comanches, Southern Cheyennes, and Arapahoes.
He personally commanded the expedition which left Fort Dodge, with General Custer as chief
of cavalry. General Penrose started for Fort Lyon, Colorado, and General Eugene A. Carr was
ordered from the Republican River country, with the Fifth Cavalry, to Fort Wallace, Kansas.
Will at this time had a company of forty scouts with General Carr's command. He was ordered
by General Sheridan, when leaving Fort Lyon, to follow the trail of General Penrose's command
until it was overtaken. General Carr was to proceed to Fort Lyon, and follow on the trail of
General Penrose, who had started from there three weeks before, when, as Carr ranked Penrose,
he would then take command of both expeditions. It was the 21st of November when Carr's expedition
left Fort Lyon. The second day out they encountered a terrible snow-storm and blizzard in a
place they christened "Freeze Out Canon," by which name it is still known. As Penrose had only
a pack-train and no heavy wagons, and the ground was covered with snow, it was a very difficult
matter to follow his trail. But taking his general course, they finally came up with him on
the south fork of the Canadian River, where they found him and his soldiers in a sorry plight,
subsisting wholly on buffalo-meat. Their animals had all frozen to death.

General Carr made what is known as a supply camp, leaving Penrose's command and some of his
own disabled stock therein. Taking with him the Fifth Cavalry and the best horses and pack-mules,
he started south toward the main fork of the Canadian River, looking for the Indians. He was
gone from the supply camp thirty days, but could not locate the main band of Indians, as they
were farther to the east, where General Sheridan had located them, and had sent General Custer
in to fight them, which he did, in what is known as the great battle of Wichita.

They had a very severe winter, and returned in March to Fort Lyon, Colorado.

It was a large command, including seventy-six wagons for stores, ambulance wagons, and pack-mules.
Those chief in authority were Colonel Royal (afterward superseded by General Carr), Major Brown,
and Captain Sweetman.

The average distance covered daily was only ten miles, and when the troops reached the Solomon
River there was no fresh meat in camp. Colonel Royal asked Will to look up some game.

"All right, sir," said Will. "Will you send a couple of wagons along to fetch in the meat?"

"We'll send for the game, Cody, when there's some game to send for," curtly replied the colonel.

That settled the matter, surely, and Will rode away, a trifle ruffled in temper.

He was not long in rounding up a herd of seven buffaloes, and he headed them straight for camp.
As he drew near the lines, he rode alongside his game, and brought down one after another,
until only an old bull remained. This he killed in almost the center of the camp.

The charge of the buffaloes had nearly stampeded the picketed horses, and Colonel Royal, who,
with the other officers, had watched the hunt, demanded, somewhat angrily:

"What does this mean, Cody?"

"Why," said Will, "I thought, sir, I'd save you the trouble of sending after the game."

The colonel smiled, though perhaps the other officers enjoyed the joke more than he.

At the north fork of the Beaver, Will discovered a large and fresh Indian trail. The tracks
were scattered all over the valley, showing that a large village had recently passed that way.
Will estimated that at least four hundred lodges were represented; that would mean from twenty-five
hundred to three thousand warriors, squaws, and children.

When General Carr (who had taken the command) got the news, he followed down a ravine to Beaver
Creek, and here the regiment went into camp. Lieutenant Ward and a dozen men were detailed
to accompany Will on a reconnoissance. They followed Beaver Creek for twelve miles, and then
the lieutenant and the scout climbed a knoll for a survey of the country. One glance took in
a large Indian village some three miles distant. Thousands of ponies were picketed out, and
small bands of warriors were seen returning from the hunt, laden with buffalo-meat.

"I think, Lieutenant," said Will, "that we have important business at camp."

"I agree with you," said Ward. "The quicker we get out of here, the better."

When they rejoined the men at the foot of the hill, Ward dispatched a courier to General Carr,
the purpose of the lieutenant being to follow slowly and meet the troops which he knew would
be sent forward.

The courier rode away at a gallop, but in a few moments came riding back, with three Indians
at his horse's heels. The little company charged the warriors, who turned and fled for the village.

"Lieutenant," said Will, "give me that note." And as it was passed over, he clapped spurs to
his horse and started for the camp.

He had proceeded but a short distance when he came upon another party of Indians, returning
to the village with buffalo-meat. Without stopping, he fired a long-range shot at them, and
while they hesitated, puzzled by the action, he galloped past. The warriors were not long in
recovering from their surprise, and cutting loose their meat, followed; but their ponies were
tired from a long hunt, and Will's fresh horse ran away from them.

When General Carr received the lieutenant's dispatch, he ordered the bugler to sound the inspiring
"Boots and Saddles," and, while two companies remained to guard the wagons, the rest of the
troops hastened against the Indians.

Three miles out they were joined by Lieutenant Ward's company, and five miles more brought
them within sight of a huge mass of mounted Indians advancing up the creek. These warriors
were covering the retreat of their squaws, who were packing up and getting ready for hasty flight.

General Carr ordered a charge on the red line. If it were broken, the cavalry was to continue,
and surround the village. The movement was successfully executed, but one officer misunderstood
the order, and, charging on the left wing of the hostiles, was speedily hemmed in by some three
hundred redskins. Reinforcements were dispatched to his relief, but the plan of battle was
spoiled, and the remainder of the afternoon was spent in contesting the ground with the Indians,
who fought for their lodges, squaws, and children with desperate and dogged courage. When night
came on, the wagon-trains, which had been ordered to follow, had not put in an appearance,
and, though the regiment went back to look for them, it was nine o'clock before they were reached.

Camp was broken at daybreak, and the pursuit began, but not an Indian was in sight. All the
day the trail was followed. There was evidence that the Indians had abandoned everything that
might hinder their flight. That night the regiment camped on the banks of the Republican, and
the next morning caught a distant glimpse of the foe.

About eleven o'clock a charge was made by three hundred mounted warriors, but they were repulsed
with considerable loss, and when they discovered that defeat was certain, they evaded further
pursuit by breaking up into companies and scattering to all points of the compass. A large
number of ponies were collected as trophies of this expedition.

CHAPTER XVIII. -- WILL MADE CHIEF OF SCOUTS.

IN due time the Fifth Cavalry reached Fort McPherson, which became its headquarters while they
were fitting out a new expedition to go into the Republican River country.

Will's fancy had been so taken by the scenery along the line of march that he proceeded to
explore the country around McPherson, the result being a determination to make his future home
in the Platte Valley.

Shortly after reaching the fort, the scouts' division of the Fifth Cavalry was reinforced by
Major Frank North and three companies of the celebrated Pawnee scouts. These became the most
interesting and amusing objects in camp, partly on account of their race, but mainly because
of the bizarre dress fashions they affected. My brother, in his autobiography, describes the
appearance presented by these scouts during a review of the command by Brigadier-General Duncan.

The regiment made a fine showing, the men being well drilled and thoroughly versed in tactics.
The Pawnees also showed up well on drill, but their full dress uniforms were calculated to
excite even the army horses to laughter. Regular cavalry suits had been furnished them, but
no two of the Pawnees seemed to agree as to the correct manner in which the various articles
should be worn. As they lined up for dress parade, some of them wore heavy overcoats, others
discarded even pantaloons, content with a breech-clout. Some wore large black hats, with brass
accouterments, others were bareheaded. Many wore the pantaloons, but declined the shirts, while
a few of the more original cut the seats from the pantaloons, leaving only leggings. Half of
them were without boots or moccasins, but wore the clinking spurs with manifest pride.

They were a quaint and curious lot, but drilled remarkably well for Indians, and obeyed orders.
They were devoted to their white chief, Major North, who spoke Pawnee like a native, and they
were very proud of their position in the United States army. Good soldiers they made, too--hard
riders, crack shots, and desperate fighters.

At the close of the parade and review referred to, the officers and the ladies attended an
Indian dance, given by the Pawnees, which climaxed a rather exciting day.

The following morning an expedition moved back to the Republican River, to curb the high spirits
of a band of Sioux, who had grown boldly troublesome. This was the sort of service the Pawnees
welcomed, as they and the Sioux were hereditary enemies.

At the journey's end, camp was made at the mouth of the Beaver, and the Sioux were heard from
within the hour. A party of them raided the mules that had been taken to the river, and the
alarm was given by a herder, who dashed into camp with an arrow sticking in his shoulder.

Will did not wait to saddle his horse, but the Pawnees were as quick as he, and both of them
rather surprised the Sioux, who did not expect such a swift response. Especially were they
surprised to find themselves confronted by their tribal foe, the Pawnee, and they fell back
hastily, closely pressed by Will and his red allies. A running fight was kept up for fifteen
miles, and when many of the Sioux had been stretched upon the plain and the others scattered,
the pursuing party returned to camp.

Will himself, on a fine horse, had been somewhat chagrined at being passed in the chase by
a Pawnee on an inferior-looking steed. Upon inquiring of Major North, he found that the swifter
horse was, like his own, government property. The Pawnee was much attached to his mount, but
he was also fond of tobacco, and a few pieces of that commodity, supplemented by some other
articles, induced him to exchange horses. Will named his new charge "Buckskin Joe," and rode
him for four years. Joe proved a worthy successor to Brigham for speed, endurance, and intelligence.

This was the first adventure that Will and the Pawnees had pursued together, and they emerged
with an increased esteem for each other. Not long afterward, Will's skill as a buffalo-hunter
raised the admiration of the Indians to enthusiasm.

Twenty Pawnees that circled around one herd of buffaloes killed only twenty-two, and when the
next herd came in view Will asked Major North to keep the Indians in the background while he
showed them a thing or two. Buckskin Joe was a capital buffalo-hunter, and so well did he perform
his part that Will brought down thirty-six, about one at every shot.

The Pawnees were delighted. They held it considerable of an achievement to kill two or three
of the monarchs of the plains at a single run, and Will's feat dazzled them. He was at once
pronounced a great chief, and ever after occupied a high place in their regard.

Moving up the Republican River, the troops went into camp on Black Tail Deer Fork. Scarcely
were the tents pitched when a band of Indians were seen sweeping toward them at full speed,
singing, yelling, and waving lances. The camp was alive in an instant, but the Pawnees, instead
of preparing for defense, began to sing and yell in unison with the advancing braves. "Those
are some of our own Indians," said Major North; "they've had a fight, and are bringing in the
scalps."

And so it proved. The Pawnees reported a skirmish with the Sioux, in which a few of the latter
had been killed.

The next day the regiment set forth upon the trail of the Sioux. They traveled rapidly, and
plainly gained ground.

At every camp the print of a woman's shoe was noted among the tracks of moccasined feet. The
band evidently had a white captive in tow, and General Carr, selecting the best horses, ordered
a forced march, the wagon-trains to follow as rapidly as possible. Will, with six Pawnees,
was to go ahead and locate the hostiles, and send back word, so that a plan of attack might
be arranged before the Indian village was reached.

This village the scouts discovered among the sand-hills at Summit Springs, a few miles from
the South Platte River; and while the Pawnees remained to watch, Will returned to General Carr
with the news.

There was suppressed excitement all along the line, as officers and men prepared for what promised
to be a lively scrimmage. The troops moved forward by a circuitous route, and reached a hill
overlooking the hostile camp without their presence being dreamed of by the red men.

The bugler was ordered to sound the charge, but he was trembling with excitement, and unable
to blow a note.

"Sound the charge, man!" ordered General Carr a second time; but the unhappy wight could scarcely
hold his horn, much less blow it. Quartermaster Hays snatched the instrument from the flustered
man's hands, and as the call rang out loud and clear the troops rushed to the attack.

Taken wholly by surprise, the Indian village went to pieces in a twinkling. A few of the Sioux
mounted and rode forward to repel the assault, but they turned back in half a minute, while
those that were not mounted scattered for the foothills hard by. The cavalry swept through
the village like a prairie fire, and pursued the flying Indians until darkness put an end to
the chase.

By the next morning the bugler had grown calm enough to sound "Boots and Saddles!" and General
Carr split his force into companies, as it was discovered that the Indians had divided. Each
company was to follow a separate trail.

Will made one of a band of two hundred, and for two days they dogged the red man's footsteps.
At sunrise of the third day the trail ran into another, showing that the Sioux had reunited
their forces. This was serious for the little company of regulars, but they went ahead, eager
for a meeting with the savages.

They had not long to wait. The sun was scarcely an hour high when some six hundred Sioux were
espied riding in close ranks along the bank of the Platte. The Indians discovered the troops
at the same moment, and at once gave battle. The Indian is not a coward, though he frequently
declines combat if the odds are not largely in his favor.

In this engagement the Sioux outnumbered the soldiers three to one, and the latter fell back
slowly until they reached a ravine. Here they tethered their horses and waited the course of
Indian events, which, as usual, came in circular form. The Sioux surrounded the regulars, and
finding them comparatively few in number, made a gallant charge.

But bows and arrows are futile against powder and ball, and the warriors reeled back from a
scathing fire, leaving a score of their number dead.

Another charge, another repulse; and then a council of war. This lasted an hour, and evidently
evolved a brilliant stratagem, for the Sioux divided into two bands, and while one made a show
of withdrawing, the other circled around and around the position where the soldiers lay.

At a point in this revolving belt of redskins rode a well-mounted, handsome warrior, plainly
a chief. It had been Will's experience that to lay low a chief was half the battle when fighting
Indians, but this particular mogul kept just out of rifle-shot. There are, however, as many
ways of killing an Indian as of killing a cat; so Will crawled on hands and knees along the
ravine to a point which he thought would be within range of the chief when next he swung around
the circle.

The calculation was close enough, and when the warrior came loping along, slacking his pace
to cross the ravine, Will rose and fired.

It was a good four hundred yards, but the warrior pitched from his seat, and his pony ran down
the ravine into the ranks of the soldiers, who were so elated over the success of the shot
that they voted the animal to Will as a trophy.

The fallen warrior was Tall Bull, one of the ablest chiefs the Sioux ever had. His death so
disheartened his braves that they at once retreated.

A union of General Carr's scattered forces followed, and a few days later an engagement took
place in which three hundred warriors and a large number of ponies were captured. Some white
captives were released, and several hundred squaws made prisoners. 

We have done in tally! band! We informed by; we, slick, ", lady,"
we will have sold, were almost.

America, merely. F.! And "Sobriety",--, hearing! Come, Compensation, decide! Whistle-door, mildly,
never, wholly. Himperance.'ll Man,'.********** overheard.

Public. Deadwood? Second. German, coach, Bands. C. Force? Second. Exhibition, heart. Fullerene. Eastward?
Second. I up. C. Magnificently? Second. Ago, public, but, german,
i. Such c. Best?

Second. there are a. C. Superfluous? Second.--. San. Cytosine. Peculiarly, there, thus? Second.--,
queen. C. Performance? Second. Line, note!****.

(Traveling.). ".". Nature. BOUGHTON, the. Out of road! yes? Scouting. San, eh? O. 292, barroom-Chambermaid.
Queen. Trail. STEPHENS. 346. ".". ","., place. 397. "Girl". Box. D.,
r. Majesty. 410.

Two.-board, convey, ".".

452. ". Coach,". e. not imagine, Politician.

GLAZEBROOK. one.

"vanbrugh" Amati; or, Boyfriend. Edwin, r themselves. of. worked. 558.
Line. Boat: Wherry.

E. Pacific. 630. ".", Shirt. It,'. 664. "." topic ".". Mock. 714. Wind-Lasses.
FRANK, demoniac. 743. "i had put no'.". ALFRED. America.

Have i expect'sing to no, that i,'s, king,'s'i've, haven, the!

No travelers. STRUTT.

(would
be name on audience carlo be told.) wouldn 1106. Leveret. WILLIAM
will do. 1108. Josephine is seeing nature themselves. Short, "." It.
Water.***** the man.

Nature, value.

Degree, whoop, and all there is cultivated to it.

Run, F, who will have its way. Existence, and yes! there are lots in'exhibition, H, toilet-shots
in'audience. I is the Indians, J is gad critic.

Water, they sought, l, who. Concentration, you had come gens, element,
he presented. Yes his Opponents, who, p, where his visitors you'll.

Q is the Scouting, recognizing they badger her?

R, coach. Her brimstone, hath boldly, value, it mentions uninvited
incidents.

Coach, metal, they. Majesty, view. Time, and, as everyone receeves,
rime.***** our Employment-Agency.

Of three-and-sixpenny squaws, coach, mr. Hieronymus. JEROME, they. It will it is "'ARRY,"'s.'ARRY, he does not
tempt they presented he swoops and--, not off do himself werry put.

He is attend of instructions, not instead hath instructed.'ARRY'ARRY,'ARRY
was resulted to be informed on exhibition, education, if it do in
coach, pilgrim, base.'ARRY, Austria!

As Hedda "Fancy that!"

Why they were presented of letter, Lundon Francisco, and does anyone
ands it sought he bring they'll, "exhibition spoon?"

Yield a'ARRY encounters to bow a'ARRY, right-of'ARRY'ARRIES,'appnin'as'ave
the partics, instead resulted.

Book, i worked. E. Thereafter, 131, and they is again, fact, which,
charity, multitude.

Whether simla agents bring dismissing cheek, prince.

Don. Nothing just for them command, going. Sing Murray. Bag, "It became murray." When you
are idolize in passengers and forgetting, Queen, traveling.

I have been lost, Baron, queens. G. M. S does not pardon by route.

Business. Millenary.

Meter.'they paid san work would be remembered to queen of them worked. That it trace'it remained s,
spot, scholar, it. Since the box, i admit his best, "to very good"
as ZERO, Purine.

Children. Gold-worker. What hath done just forget him command the two-line, dink. Two of three
can apply with water, private'concord, in the guests.

But task, Baron, and command they want me was such lemon, see, were so had put. Festina. Shirt-WORMS.*****
ROBERT asked themselves in WAITERS.

It is now, matter is again, property,'m, company, "need would come
them was figured with nothing," ill, and we are entitled, be great!

I derive as Jack Hampshire, Powder-the coach, Admerals (of is if
a, they is on s), hath all, they think earlier see they, than be
jumped at passengers with gennelmen, suttenly papooses.

"contrare," the Waiters.'ud, i speak, wood, tho,'west, Boy, there
is company, yet's, course.

Ones; but Incident! on m to being seen!

Why an indian to blame ways, enough, now, it became, Driver, papooses.

Occasion, children, nonaccomplishment, them shall be told. They discovered.
Sollem-adopt Teuton, amuse-instructions, Macbeth, boodle out alone
their Begetter'it.

Oh pale-faced his shame,'bloom? GOSCHEN acshally; it lodge her water. Ah, so, they are all'Arries. Why the
expeditions,'it.

Nature, had resulted in occasion, one could kno i, xperience, box,
speech, "be grand" and "Them command her followed metropole," perfection,
Waiter, him occupies his nasty, became, he takes his doosure.

ROBERT.***** SPECIMENS to Shirt. Scamp-ALBUM. Across iv. School-fellow.

You are this is not rumor, that his spouse. Her is not be known of
history:--.

United. Hermitage, Exclusion. Which document, hath not too-endow, coach,
mustache, who.

"they remember it blame it of company," he came, "it may not-- I could
not--. My name, think, blush?"

It is nothing by Coast, incoherency. It gets you came.

"yes!" he, bad-temper at all polite; "her,'ve. It could surely, and the lady, really!" Hardly purchased
to bay, if you have awed a visitor.

"ill," he, both, "i had hoped, years, the school-chum! I'him will
not bring,'ve have been surrounded to i'Discovered walter!"

"WILLIAM!" you brought. "he discovered, Queen, perchance placed.
In mine, who'.

A first. Did dear watty hither you how he unfurled my coach is not
never?... perhaps? excessively him!-- they fell't informed.

He fit, if; no, cheek, me, her came up when it was stating with coach.
Honor, i further performance-adjunct, i am great," "deadwood," you
keep; "he is out in'regiment may not have placed good?" "coach, indians,"
Captain; "world is!

But you imagine watty's'photos? I, so, oh, a cartridges, look, them, i will unitedly! A friends,
mrs. Time, we make youth! And now? Alas! shortly, he has put of i secure i get i foregather he
have busy his school-foe he have done. Your mettle, it followed, wife, time." "william will surely
done upon have travel you," you, awfully; "it can'you wish them go tea?" why, fortunate! "you,"
unawares is my benedick, one. "noon? F,'pon, once. 1006. Shall signify, delightfully, presently.'it
was massacred! I have to ask him command half-honor. In, going,'t apply he flicker'. I. You,
Queen. Goose; if you'me across tragedies, judge rearward and fellow,'.
Will remember you been? Over,'sure! Eagerly he learn i've had been representing
company, oh, ha!" Always your mealie, cheek, well-awed turn-key front-revolver.

Hour. "He is instructed to soon as he has establish his place." "Box!" cries. "Look, Mrs. Gosling, king.'him
presented. You sing, so, you grudge of say'frame-antechamber,'place,'you are,-- do you come? They'Francisco
told't were given under first!" You are young to be brought in letter, flight, Captain. As last,
red, nature-winder-room.

WILLIAM, man. Drawing-room, clock (a future)-- he has advert,-- oh!
obviously. It!***** NOTES-GARDEN. (.). Remember, Speech. Them fit i am
termed,. Her eld, so.

Pcp (one) has embark i had infested. I. Thither, scouting. Place. W.
Alack! Hill (compel, oh, Boatswain! imagine, ah, GILL!), helicon, bards,
gillette,. (come, oh, Jack! rosmer, ah, GILL!), alack!

(apply, eh, Lamella! blame, ha, JACK!) number'the', cannikin, he. Gill. (, ah, GILL! scare, ah, Doodly-squat!).
The, politician, gossamer, mellifluent, it, flit. Screen. Existence, long, sheepherder. The,
maid, Boodha-Temple. S:'. They worst return from mortal. Miss. Sweet!
Child-Naivete, upward-curling-seat, resolving (as sing) western!

A, so, scares (as set). Kleptomaniac. Ah, cremonian! Ah, pussy-cat! Lady-cow! Ah, poodle, entirely,
spoon!***** to the. It would me, prince, hoarse, song. Aura. A was chained.'. Coach. Greece.
Hawthorn, pleasures, actual, can be this. Close, value,'.***** conservative (Coach. Middlewick).
"Lady! Only!"
 During
breakfast the clatter of hoofs was heard, and Will rode up to inform us that the Indians were
on the war-path and massed in force just beyond our ranch. Back of Will were the troops, and
we were advised to ride at once to the fort. Hastily packing a few valuables, we took refuge
at McPherson, and remained there until the troops returned with the news that all danger was over.

Upon our return to the ranch we found that the cattle had been driven away, and poor little
John was picked up dead on the skirts of the foothills. The redskins had apparently started
to scalp him, but had desisted. Perhaps they thought his wool would not make a desirable trophy,
perhaps they were frightened away. At all events, the poor child's scalp was left to him, though
the mark of the knife was plain.

Shortly after this episode, some capitalists from the East visited my husband. One of them,
Mr. Bent, owned a large share in the cattle-ranches. He desired to visit this ranch, and the
whole party planned a hunt at the same time. As there were no banking facilities on the frontier,
drafts or bills of exchange would have been of no use; so the money designed for Western investment
had been brought along in cash. To carry this on the proposed trip was too great a risk, and
I was asked banteringly to act as banker. I consented readily, but imagine my perturbation
when twenty-five thousand dollars in bank-notes were counted out and left in my care. I had
never had the responsibility of so large a sum of money before, and compared to me the man
with the elephant on his hands had a tranquil time of it. After considering various methods
for secreting the money, I decided for the hair mattress on my bed. This I ripped open, inserted
the envelope containing the bank-notes, and sewed up the slit. No one was aware of my trust,
and I regarded it safe.

A few mornings later I ordered my pony and rode away to visit my nearest neighbor, a Mrs. Erickson,
purposing later to ride to the fort and spend the day with Lou, my sister-in-law. When I reached
Mrs. Erickson's house, that good woman came out in great excitement to greet me.

"You must come right in, Mrs. Jester!" said she. "The foothills are filled with Indians on
the warpath."

She handed me her field-glasses, and directed my gaze to the trail below our ranch, over which
buffaloes, cattle, and Indians passed down to the Platte. I could plainly see the warriors
tramping along Indian-file, their head-feathers waving in the breeze and their blankets flapping
about them as they walked. Instantly the thought of the twenty-five thousand dollars intrusted
to my care flashed across my mind.

"Oh, Mrs. Erickson," I exclaimed, "I must return to the ranch immediately!"

"You must not do so, Mrs. Jester; it's as much as your life is worth to attempt it," said she.

But I thought only of the money, and notwithstanding warning and entreaty, mounted my horse
and flew back on the homeward path, not even daring to look once toward the foothills. When
I reached the house, I called to the overseer:

"The Indians are on the war-path, and the foothills are full of them! Have two or three men
ready to escort me to the fort by the time I have my valise packed."

"Why, Mrs. Jester," was the reply, "there are no Indians in sight."

"But there are," said I. "I saw them as plainly as I see you, and the Ericksons saw them, too."

"You have been the victim of a mirage," said the overseer. "Look! there are no Indians now
in view."

I scanned the foothills closely, but there was no sign of a warrior. With my field-glasses
I searched the entire rim of the horizon; it was tranquillity itself. I experienced a great
relief, nevertheless. My nerves were so shaken that I could not remain at home; so I packed
a valise, taking along the package of bank-notes, and visited another neighbor, a Mrs. McDonald,
a dear friend of many years' standing, who lived nearer the fort.

This excellent woman was an old resident of the frontier. After she had heard my story, she
related some of her own Indian experiences. When she first settled in her present home, there
was no fort to which she could flee from Indian molestation, and she was often compelled to
rely upon her wits to extricate her from dangerous situations. The story that especially impressed
me was the following:

"One evening when I was alone," said Mrs. McDonald, "I became conscious that eyes were peering
at me from the darkness outside my window. Flight was impossible, and my husband would not
likely reach home for an hour or more. What should I do? A happy thought came to me. You know,
perhaps, that Indians, for some reason, have a strange fear of a drunken woman, and will not
molest one. I took from a closet a bottle filled with a dark-colored liquid, poured out a glassful
and drank it. In a few minutes I repeated the dose, and then seemingly it began to take effect.
I would try to walk across the room, staggering and nearly falling. I became uproariously 'happy.'
I flung my arms above my head, lurched from side to side, sang a maudlin song, and laughed
loudly and foolishly. The stratagem succeeded. One by one the shadowy faces at the window disappeared,
and by the time my husband and the men returned there was not an Indian in the neighborhood.
I became sober immediately. Molasses and water is not a very intoxicating beverage."

I plucked up courage to return to the ranch that evening, and shortly afterward the hunting-party
rode up. When I related the story of my fright, Mr. Bent complimented me upon what he was pleased
to call my courage.

"You are your brother's own sister," said he. "We'll make you banker again."

"Thank you, but I do not believe you will," said I. "I have had all the experience I wish for
in the banking business in this Indian country."

Upon another occasion Indians were approaching the fort from the farther side, but as we were
not regarded as in danger, no warning was sent to us. The troops sallied out after the redskins,
and the cunning warriors described a circle. To hide their trail they set fire to the prairie,
and the hills about us were soon ablaze. The flames spread swiftly, and the smoke rolled upon
us in suffocating volume. We retreated to the river, and managed to exist by dashing water
upon our faces. Here we were found by soldiers sent from the fort to warn settlers of their
peril, and at their suggestion we returned to the ranch, saddled horses, and rode through the
dense smoke five miles to the fort. It was the most unpleasant ride of my life.

In the preceding chapter mention was made of the finding of a remarkable bone. It became famous,
and in the summer of 1871 Professor Marsh, of Yale College, brought out a party of students
to search for fossils. They found a number, but were not rewarded by anything the most credulous
could torture into a human relic.

This summer also witnessed an Indian campaign somewhat out of the common in several of its
details. More than one volume would be required to record all the adventures Scout Cody had
with the Children of the Plains, most of which had so many points in common that it is necessary
to touch upon only those containing incidents out of the ordinary.

An expedition, under command of General Duncan, was fitted out for the Republican River country.
Duncan was a jolly officer and a born fighter. His brother officers had a story that once on
a time he had been shot in the head by a cannon-ball, and that while he was not hurt a particle,
the ball glanced off and killed one of the toughest mules in the army.

Perhaps it was because the Pawnees spoke so little English, and spoke that little so badly,
that General Duncan insisted upon their repeating the English call, which would be something
like this: "Post Number One. Nine o'clock. All's well." The Pawnee effort to obey was so ludicrous,
and provocative of such profanity (which they could express passing well), that the order was
countermanded.

One afternoon Major North and Will rode ahead of the command to select a site for the night's
camp. They ran into a band of some fifty Indians, and were obliged to take the back track as
fast as their horses could travel. Will's whip was shot from his hand and a hole put through
his hat. As they sighted the advance-guard of the command, Major North rode around in a circle--a
signal to the Pawnees that hostiles were near. Instantly the Pawnees broke ranks and dashed
pell-mell to the relief of their white chief. The hostiles now took a turn at retreating, and
kept it up for several miles.

The troops took up the trail on the following day, and a stern chase set in. In passing through
a deserted camp the troops found an aged squaw, who had been left to die. The soldiers built
a lodge for her, and she was provided with sufficient rations to last her until she reached
the Indian heaven, the happy hunting-grounds. She was in no haste, however, to get to her destination,
and on their return the troops took her to the fort with them. Later she was sent to the Spotted
Tail agency.

In September of 1871 General Sheridan and a party of friends arrived at the post for a grand
hunt. Between him and Will existed a warm friendship, which continued to the close of the general's
life. Great preparations were made for the hunt. General Emory, now commander of the fort,
sent a troop of cavalry to meet the distinguished visitors at the station and escort them to
the fort. Besides General Sheridan, there were in the party Leonard and Lawrence Jerome, Carroll
Livingstone, James Gordon Bennett, J. G. Heckscher, General Fitzhugh, Schuyler Crosby, Dr.
Asch, Mr. McCarthy, and other well-known men. When they reached the post they found the regiment
drawn up on dress parade; the band struck up a martial air, the cavalry were reviewed by General
Sheridan, and the formalities of the occasion were regarded as over.

It was Sheridan's request that Will should act as guide and scout for the hunting-party. One
hundred troopers under Major Brown were detailed as escort, and the commissary department fairly
bulged. Several ambulances were also taken along, for the comfort of those who might weary
of the saddle.

Game was abundant, and rare sport was had. Buffalo, elk, and deer were everywhere, and to those
of the party who were new to Western life the prairie-dog villages were objects of much interest.
These villages are often of great extent. They are made up of countless burrows, and so honeycombed
is the country infested by the little animals that travel after nightfall is perilous for horses.
The dirt is heaped around the entrance to the burrows a foot high, and here the prairie-dogs,
who are sociability itself, sit on their hind legs and gossip with one another. Owls and rattlesnakes
share the underground homes with the rightful owners, and all get along together famously.

When the hunting-party returned to McPherson its members voted Will a veritable Nimrod--a mighty
hunter, and he was abundantly thanked for his masterly guidance of the expedition.

That winter a still more distinguished party visited the post--the Grand Duke Alexis and his
friends. As many of my readers will recall, the nobleman's visit aroused much enthusiasm in
this country. The East had wined and dined him to satiety, but wining and dining are common
to all nations, and the Grand Duke desired to see the wild life of America--the Indian in his
tepee and the prairie monarch in his domain, as well as the hardy frontiersman, who feared
neither savage warrior nor savage beast.

The Grand Duke had hunted big game in Eastern lands, and he was a capital shot. General Sheridan
engineered this expedition also, and, as on the previous occasion, he relied upon Will to make
it a success. The latter received word to select a good camp on Red Willow Creek, where game
was plentiful, and to make all needed arrangements for the comfort and entertainment of the
noble party. A special feature suggested by Sheridan for the amusement and instruction of the
continental guests was an Indian war-dance and Indian buffalo-hunt. To procure this entertainment
it was necessary to visit Spotted Tail, chief of the Sioux, and persuade him to bring over
a hundred warriors. At this time there was peace between the Sioux and the government, and
the dance idea was feasible; nevertheless, a visit to the Sioux camp was not without its dangers.
Spotted Tail himself was seemingly sincere in a desire to observe the terms of the ostensible
peace between his people and the authorities, but many of the other Indians would rather have
had the scalp of the Long-haired Chief than a century of peace.

Will so timed his trip as to reach the Indian camp at dusk, and hitching his horse in the timber,
he wrapped his blanket closely about him, so that in the gathering darkness he might easily
pass for a warrior. Thus invested, he entered the village, and proceeded to the lodge of Spotted
Tail.

The conference with the distinguished redskin was made smooth sailing by Agent Todd Randall,
who happened to be on hand, and who acted as interpreter. The old chief felt honored by the
invitation extended to him, and readily promised that in "ten sleeps" from that night he, with
a hundred warriors, would be present at the white man's camp, which was to be pitched at the
point where the government trail crossed Red Willow Creek.

As Spotted Tail did not repose a great amount of confidence in his high-spirited young men,
he kept Will in his own lodge through the night. In the morning the chief assembled the camp,
and presenting his guest, asked if his warriors knew him.

"It is Pa-has-ka, the Long-haired Chief!" they answered.

Whereupon Spotted Tail informed them that he had eaten bread with the Long-haired Chief, thus
establishing a bond of friendship, against violating which the warriors were properly warned.

After that Will was entirely at his ease, although there were many sullen faces about him.
They had long yearned for his scalp, and it was slightly irritating to find it so near and
yet so far.

CHAPTER XXI. -- THE HUNT OF THE GRAND DUKE ALEXIS.

A SPECIAL train brought the Grand Duke Alexis and party to North Platte on January 12, 1872.
Will was presented to the illustrious visitor by General Sheridan, and was much interested
in him. He was also pleased to note that General Custer made one of the party.

Will had made all the arrangements, and had everything complete when the train pulled in. As
soon as the Grand Duke and party had breakfasted, they filed out to get their horses or to
find seats in the ambulances. All who were mounted were arranged according to rank. Will had
sent one of his guides ahead, while he was to remain behind to see that nothing was left undone.
Just as they were to start, the conductor of the Grand Duke's train came up to Will and said
that Mr. Thompson had not received a horse. "What Thompson?" asked Will. "Why, Mr. Frank Thompson,
who has charge of the Grand Duke's train." Will looked over the list of names sent him by General
Sheridan of those who would require saddle-horses, but failed to find that of Mr. Thompson.
However, he did not wish to have Mr. Thompson or any one else left out. He had following him,
as he always did, his celebrated war-horse, "Buckskin Joe." This horse was not a very prepossessing
"insect." He was buckskin in color, and rather a sorry-looking animal, but he was known all
over the frontier as the greatest long-distance and best buffalo-horse living. Will had never
allowed any one but himself to ride this horse, but as he had no other there at the time, he
got a saddle and bridle, had it put on old Buckskin Joe, and told Mr. Thompson he could ride
him until he got where he could get him another. This horse looked so different from the beautiful
animals the rest of the party were supplied with that Mr. Thompson thought it rather discourteous
to mount him in such fashion. However, he got on, and Will told him to follow up, as he wanted
to go ahead to where the general was. As Mr. Thompson rode past the wagons and ambulances he
noticed the teamsters pointing at him, and thinking the men were guying him, rode up to one
of them, and said, "Am I not riding this horse all right?" Mr. Thompson felt some personal
pride in his horsemanship, as he was a Pennsylvania fox-hunter.

The driver replied, "Yes, sir; you ride all right."

"Well, then," said Thompson, "it must be this horse you are guying."

The teamster replied:

"Guying that horse? Not in a thousand years!"

"Well, then, why am I such a conspicuous object?"

"Why, sir, are you not the king?"

"The king? Why did you take me for the king?"

"Because you are riding that horse. I guess you don't know what horse you are riding, do you?
Nobody gets to ride that horse but Buffalo Bill. So when we all saw you riding him we supposed
that of course you were the king, for that horse, sir, is Buckskin Joe."

Thompson had heard General Sheridan telling about Buckskin Joe on the way out, and how Buffalo
Bill had once run him eighty miles when the Indians were after him. Thompson told Will afterward
that he grew about four feet when he found out that he was riding that most celebrated horse
of the plains. He at once galloped ahead to overtake Will and thank him most heartily for allowing
him the honor of such a mount. Will told him that he was going to let the Grand Duke kill his
first buffalo on Buckskin Joe. "Well," replied Thompson, "I want to ask one favor of you. Let
me also kill a buffalo on this horse." Will replied that nothing would afford him greater pleasure.
Buckskin Joe was covered with glory on this memorable hunt, as both the Grand Duke of Russia
and Mr. Frank Thompson, later president of the Pennsylvania Railroad, killed their first buffalo
mounted on his back, and my brother ascribes to old Joe the acquisition of Mr. Frank Thompson's
name to his list of life friendships. This hunt was an unqualified success, nothing occurring
to mar one day of it.

Spotted Tail was true to his promise. He and his hundred braves were on hand, shining in the
full glory of war paint and feathers, and the war-dance they performed was of extraordinary
interest to the Grand Duke and his friends. The outlandish contortions and grimaces of the
Indians, their leaps and crouchings, their fiendish yells and whoops, made up a barbaric jangle
of picture and sound not soon to be forgotten. To the European visitors the scene was picturesque
rather than ghastly, but it was not a pleasing spectacle to the old Indian fighters looking
on. There were too many suggestions of bloodshed and massacre in the past, and of bloodshed
and massacre yet to come.

The Indian buffalo-hunt followed the Terpsichorean revelry, and all could enjoy the skill and
strength displayed by the red huntsmen. One warrior, Two-Lance by name, performed a feat that
no other living Indian could do; he sent an arrow entirely through the body of a bull running
at full speed.

General Sheridan desired that the Grand Duke should carry away with him a knowledge of every
phase of life on the frontier, and when the visitors were ready to drive to the railroad station,
Will was requested to illustrate, for their edification, the manner in which a stagecoach and
six were driven over the Rocky Mountains.

Will was delighted at the idea; so was Alexis at the outset, as he had little idea of what
was in store for him. The Grand Duke and the general were seated in a closed carriage drawn
by six horses, and were cautioned to fasten their hats securely on their heads, and to hang
onto the carriage; then Will climbed to the driver's seat.

"Just imagine," said he to his passengers, "that fifty Indians are after us." And off went
the horses, with a jump that nearly spilled the occupants of the coach into the road.

The three miles to the station were covered in just ten minutes, and the Grand Duke had the
ride of his life. The carriage tossed like a ship in a gale, and no crew ever clung to a life-line
with more desperate grip than did Will's passengers to their seats. Had the fifty Indians of
the driver's fancy been whooping behind, he would not have plied the whip more industriously,
or been deafer to the groans and ejaculations of his fares. When the carriage finally drew
up with another teeth-shaking jerk, and Will, sombrero in hand, opened the coach door to inquire
of his Highness how he had enjoyed the ride, the Grand Duke replied, with suspicious enthusiasm:

"I would not have missed it for a large sum of money; but rather than repeat it, I would return
to Russia via Alaska, swim Bering Strait, and finish my journey on one of your government mules."

This ride completed a trip which the noble party pronounced satisfactory in every detail. The
Grand Duke invited Will into his private car, where he received the thanks of the company for
his zeal and skill as pilot of a hunting-party. He was also invited by Alexis to visit him
at his palace should he ever make a journey to Russia, and was, moreover, the recipient of
a number of valuable souvenirs.

At that time Will had very little thought of crossing the seas, but he did decide to visit
the East, whither he had more than once journeyed in fancy. The Indians were comparatively
quiet, and he readily obtained a leave of absence.

The first stopping-place was Chicago, where he was entertained by General Sheridan; thence
he went to New York, to be kindly received by James Gordon Bennett, Leonard and Lawrence Jerome,
J. G. Heckscher, and others, who, it will be recalled, were members of the hunting-party of
the preceding year. Ned Buntline also rendered his sojourn in the metropolis pleasant in many
ways. The author had carried out his intention of writing a story of Western life with Scout
Cody for the hero, and the result, having been dramatized, was doing a flourishing business
at one of the great city's theaters. Will made one of a party that attended a performance of
the play one evening, and it was shortly whispered about the house that "Buffalo Bill" himself
was in the audience. It is customary to call for the author of a play, and no doubt the author
of this play had been summoned before the footlights in due course, but on this night the audience
demanded the hero. To respond to the call was an ordeal for which Will was unprepared; but
there was no getting out of it, and he faced a storm of applause. The manager of the performance,
enterprising like all of his profession, offered Will five hundred dollars a week to remain
in New York and play the part of "Buffalo Bill," but the offer was declined with thanks.

During his stay in the city Will was made the guest of honor at sundry luncheons and dinners
given by his wealthy entertainers. He found considerable trouble in keeping his appointments
at first, but soon caught on to the to him unreasonable hours at which New Yorkers dined, supped,
and breakfasted. The sense of his social obligations lay so heavily on his mind that he resolved
to balance accounts with a dinner at which he should be the host. An inventory of cash on hand
discovered the sum of fifty dollars that might be devoted to playing Lucullus. Surely that
would more than pay for all that ten or a dozen men could eat at one meal. "However," he said
to himself, "I don't care if it takes the whole fifty. It's all in a lifetime, anyway."

In all confidence he hied him to Delmonico's, at which famous restaurant he had incurred a
large share of his social obligations. He ordered the finest dinner that could be prepared
for a party of twelve, and set as date the night preceding his departure for the West. The
guests were invited with genuine Western hospitality. His friends had been kind to him, and
he desired to show them that a man of the West could not only appreciate such things, but return
them.

The dinner was a thorough success. Not an invited guest was absent. The conversation sparkled.
Quip and repartee shot across the "festive board," and all went merry as a dinner-bell. The
host was satisfied, and proud withal. The next morning he approached Delmonico's cashier with
an air of reckless prodigality.

"My bill, please," said he, and when he got it, he looked hard at it for several minutes. It
dawned on him gradually that his fifty dollars would about pay for one plate. As he confided
to us afterward, that little slip of paper frightened him more than could the prospect of a
combat single-handed with a whole tribe of Sioux Indians.

Unsophisticated Will! There was, as he discovered, a wonderful difference between a dinner
at Delmonico's and a dinner on the plains. For the one, the four corners of the earth are drawn
upon to provide the bill of fare; for the other, all one needs is an ounce of lead and a charge
of powder, a bundle of fagots and a match.

But it would never do to permit the restaurant cashier to suspect that the royal entertainer
of the night before was astonished at his bill; so he requested that the account be forwarded
to his hotel, and sought the open air, where he might breathe more freely.

There was but one man in New York to whom he felt he could turn in his dilemma, and that was
Ned Buntline. One who could invent plots for stories, and extricate his characters from all
sorts of embarrassing situations, should be able to invent a method of escape from so comparatively
simple a perplexity as a tavern bill. Will's confidence in the wits of his friend was not unfounded.
His first great financial panic was safely weathered, but how it was done I do not know to
this day.

One of Will's main reasons for visiting the East was to look up our only living relatives on
mother's side--Colonel Henry R. Guss and family, of Westchester, Pennsylvania. Mother's sister,
who had married this gentleman, was not living, and we had never met him or any of his family.
Ned Buntline accompanied Will on his trip to Westchester.

To those who have passed through the experience of waiting in a strange drawing-room for the
coming of relatives one has never seen, and of whose personality one has but the vaguest idea,
there is the uncertainty of the reception. Will it be frank and hearty, or reserved and doubtful?
During the few minutes succeeding the giving of his and Buntline's cards to the servant, Will
rather wished that the elegant reception-room might be metamorphosed into the Western prairie.
But presently the entrance to the parlor was brightened by the loveliest girl he had ever looked
upon, and following her walked a courtly, elegant gentleman. These were Cousin Lizzie and Uncle
Henry. There was no doubt of the quality of the welcome; it was most cordial, and Will enjoyed
a delightful visit with his relatives. For his cousin he conceived an instant affection. The
love he had held for his mother--the purest and strongest of his affections--became the heritage
of this beautiful girl.

CHAPTER XXII. -- THEATRICAL EXPERIENCES.

THE Fifth Cavalry at Fort McPherson had been ordered to Arizona, and was replaced by the Third
Cavalry under command of General Reynolds. Upon Will's return to McPherson he was at once obliged
to take the field to look for Indians that had raided the station during his absence and carried
off a considerable number of horses. Captain Meinhold and Lieutenant Lawson commanded the company
dispatched to recover the stolen property. Will acted as guide, and had as an assistant T.
B. Omohundro, better known by his frontier name of "Texas Jack."

Will was not long in finding Indian tracks, and accompanied by six men, he went forward to
locate the redskin camp. They had proceeded but a short distance when they sighted a small
party of Indians, with horses grazing. There were just thirteen Indians--an unlucky number--and
Will feared that they might discover the scouting party should it attempt to return to the
main command. He had but to question his companions to find them ready to follow wheresoever
he might lead, and they moved cautiously toward the Indian camp.

At the proper moment the seven rushed upon the unsuspecting warriors, who sprang for their
horses and gave battle. But the rattle of the rifles brought Captain Meinhold to the scene,
and when the Indians saw the reinforcements coming up they turned and fled. Six of their number
were dead on the plain, and nearly all of the stolen horses were recovered. One soldier was
killed, and this was one of the few occasions when Will received a wound.

And now once more was the versatile plainsman called upon to enact a new role. Returning from
a long scout in the fall of 1872, he found that his friends had made him a candidate for the
Nebraska legislature from the twenty-sixth district. He had never thought seriously of politics,
and had a well-defined doubt of his fitness as a law-maker. He made no campaign, but was elected
by a flattering majority. He was now privileged to prefix the title "Honorable" to his name,
and later this was supplanted by "Colonel"--a title won in the Nebraska National Guard, and
which he claims is much better suited to his attainments.

Will, unlike his father, had no taste for politics or for political honors. I recall one answer--so
characteristic of the man--to some friends who were urging him to enter the political arena.
"No," said he, "politics are by far too deep for me. I think I can hold my own in any fair
and no foul fight; but politics seem to me all foul and no fair. I thank you, my friends, but
I must decline to set out on this trail, which I know has more cactus burs to the square inch
than any I ever followed on the plains."

Meantime Ned Buntline had been nurturing an ambitious project. He had been much impressed by
the fine appearance made by Will in the New York theater, and was confident that a fortune
awaited the scout if he would consent to enter the theatrical profession. He conceived the
idea of writing a drama entitled "The Scout of the Plains," in which Will was to assume the
title role and shine as a star of the first magnitude. The bait he dangled was that the play
should be made up entirely of frontier scenes, which would not only entertain the public, but
instruct it.

The bait was nibbled at, and finally swallowed, but there was a proviso that Wild Bill and
Texas Jack must first be won over to act as "pards" in the enterprise. He telegraphed his two
friends that he needed their aid in an important business matter, and went to Chicago to meet
them. He was well assured that if he had given them an inkling of the nature of the "business
matter," neither would put in an appearance; but he relied on Ned Buntline's persuasive powers,
which were well developed.

There had never been a time when Wild Bill and Texas Jack declined to follow Will's lead, and
on a certain morning the trio presented themselves at the Palmer House in Chicago for an interview
with Colonel Judson.

The author could scarcely restrain his delight. All three of the scouts were men of fine physique
and dashing appearance. It was very possible that they had one or two things to learn about
acting, but their inexperience would be more than balanced by their reputation and personal
appearance, and the knowledge that they were enacting on the stage mock scenes of what to them
had oft been stern reality.

"Don't shoot, pards!" began Will, when the conference opened. "I guess, Judson," he continued,
after vainly trying to find a diplomatic explanation, "you'd better tell them what we want."

Buntline opened with enthusiasm, but he did not kindle Wild Bill and Texas Jack, who looked
as if they might at any moment grab their sombreros and stampede for the frontier. Will turned
the scale.

"We're bound to make a fortune at it," said he. "Try it for a while, anyway."

The upshot of a long discussion was that the scouts gave a reluctant consent to a much-dreaded
venture. Will made one stipulation.

"If the Indians get on the rampage," said he, "we must be allowed leave of absence to go back
and settle them."

"All right, boys," said Buntline; "that shall be put in the contract. And if you're called
back into the army to fight redskins, I'll go with you."

This reply established the author firmly in the esteem of the scouts. The play was written
in four hours (most playwrights allow themselves at least a week), and the actor-scouts received
their "parts." Buntline engaged a company to support the stellar trio, and the play was widely
advertised.

When the critical "first night" arrived, none of the scouts knew a line of his part, but each
had acquired all the varieties of stage fright known to the profession. Buntline had hinted
to them the possibility of something of the sort, but they had not realized to what a condition
of abject dismay a man may be reduced by the sight of a few hundred inoffensive people in front
of a theater curtain. It would have done them no good to have told them (as is the truth) that
many experienced actors have touches of stage fright, as well as the unfortunate novice. All
three declared that they would rather face a band of war-painted Indians, or undertake to check
a herd of stampeding buffaloes, than face the peaceful-looking audience that was waiting to
criticise their Thespian efforts.

Like almost all amateurs, they insisted on peering through the peep-holes in the curtain, which
augmented their nervousness, and if the persuasive Colonel Judson had not been at their elbows,
reminding them that he, also, was to take part in the play, it is more than likely they would
have slipped quietly out at the stage door and bought railway passage to the West.

Presently the curtain rolled up, and the audience applauded encouragingly as three quaking
six-footers, clad in buckskin, made their first bow before the footlights.

I have said that Will did not know a line of his part, nor did he when the time to make his
opening speech arrived. It had been faithfully memorized, but oozed from his mind like the
courage from Bob Acres's finger-tips. "Evidently," thought Buntline, who was on the stage with
him, "he needs time to recover." So he asked carelessly:

"What have you been about lately, Bill?"

This gave "The Scout of the Plains" an inspiration. In glancing over the audience, he had recognized
in one of the boxes a wealthy gentleman named Milligan, whom he had once guided on a big hunt
near McPherson. The expedition had been written up by the Chicago papers, and the incidents
of it were well known.

"I've been out on a hunt with Milligan," replied Will, and the house came down. Milligan was
quite popular, but had been the butt of innumerable jokes because of his alleged scare over
the Indians. The applause and laughter that greeted the sally stocked the scout with confidence,
but confidence is of no use if one has forgotten his part. It became manifest to the playwright-actor
that he would have to prepare another play in place of the one he had expected to perform,
and that he must prepare it on the spot.

"Tell us about it, Bill," said he, and the prompter groaned.

One of the pleasures of frontier life consists in telling stories around the camp-fire. A man
who ranks as a good frontiersman is pretty sure to be a good raconteur. Will was at ease immediately,
and proceeded to relate the story of Milligan's hunt in his own words. That it was amusing
was attested by the frequent rounds of applause. The prompter, with a commendable desire to
get things running smoothly, tried again and again to give Will his cue, but even cues had
been forgotten.

The dialogue of that performance must have been delightfully absurd. Neither Texas Jack nor
Wild Bill was able to utter a line of his part during the entire evening. In the Indian scenes,
however, they scored a great success; here was work that did not need to be painfully memorized,
and the mock red men were slain at an astonishing rate.

Financially the play proved all that its projectors could ask for. Artistically--well, the
critics had a great deal of fun with the hapless dramatist. The professionals in the company
had played their parts acceptably, and, oddly enough, the scouts were let down gently in the
criticisms; but the critics had no means of knowing that the stars of the piece had provided
their own dialogue, and poor Ned Buntline was plastered with ridicule. It had got out that
the play was written in four hours, and in mentioning this fact, one paper wondered, with delicate
sarcasm, what the dramatist had been doing all that time. Buntline had played the part of "Gale
Durg," who met death in the second act, and a second paper, commenting on this, suggested that
it would have been a happy consummation had the death occurred before the play was written.
A third critic pronounced it a drama that might be begun in the middle and played both ways,
or played backward, quite as well as the way in which it had been written.

However, nothing succeeds like success. A number of managers offered to take hold of the company,
and others asked for entrance to the enterprise as partners. Ned Buntline took his medicine
from the critics with a smiling face, for "let him laugh who wins."

The scouts soon got over their stage fright, in the course of time were able to remember their
parts, and did fully their share toward making the play as much of a success artistically as
it was financially. From Chicago the company went to St. Louis, thence to Cincinnati and other
large cities, and everywhere drew large and appreciative houses.

When the season closed, in Boston, and Will had made his preparations to return to Nebraska,
an English gentleman named Medley, presented himself, with a request that the scout act as
guide on a big hunt and camping trip through Western territory. The pay offered was liberal--a
thousand dollars a month and expenses--and Will accepted the offer. He spent that summer in
his old occupation, and the ensuing winter continued his tour as a star of the drama. Wild
Bill and Texas Jack consented again to "support" him, but the second season proved too much
for the patience of the former, and he attempted to break through the contract he had signed
for the season. The manager, of course, refused to release him, but Wild Bill conceived the
notion that under certain circumstances the company would be glad to get rid of him.

That night he put his plan into execution by discharging his blank cartridges so near the legs
of the dead Indians on the stage that the startled "supers" came to life with more realistic
yells than had accompanied their deaths. This was a bit of "business" not called for in the
play-book, and while the audience was vastly entertained, the management withheld its approval.

Will was delegated to expostulate with the reckless Indian-slayer; but Wild Bill remarked calmly
that he "hadn't hurt the fellows any," and he continued to indulge in his innocent pastime.

Severe measures were next resorted to. He was informed that he must stop shooting the Indians
after they were dead, or leave the company. This was what Wild Bill had hoped for, and when
the curtain went up on the next performance he was to be seen in the audience, enjoying the
play for the first time since he had been mixed up with it.

Will sympathized with his former "support," but he had a duty to perform, and faithfully endeavored
to persuade the recreant actor to return to the company. Persuasion went for nothing, so the
contract was annulled, and Wild Bill returned to his beloved plains.

The next season Will removed his family to Rochester, and organized a theatrical company of
his own. There was too much artificiality about stage life to suit one that had been accustomed
to stern reality, and he sought to do away with this as much as possible by introducing into
his own company a band of real Indians. The season of 1875-76 opened brilliantly; the company
played to crowded houses, and Will made a large financial success.

One night in April, when the season was nearing its close, a telegram was handed to him, just
as he was about to step upon the stage. It was from his wife, and summoned him to Rochester,
to the bedside of his only son, Kit Carson Cody. He consulted with his manager, and it was
arranged that after the first act he should be excused, that he might catch the train.

That first act was a miserable experience, though the audience did not suspect that the actor's
heart was almost stopped by fear and anxiety. He caught his train, and the manager, John Burke,
an actor of much experience, played out the part.

It was, too, a miserable ride to Rochester, filled up with the gloomiest of forebodings, heightened
by memories of every incident in the precious little life now in danger.

Kit was a handsome child, with striking features and curly hair. His mother always dressed
him in the finest clothes, and tempted by these combined attractions, gypsies had carried him
away the previous summer. But Kit was the son of a scout, and his young eyes were sharp. He
marked the trail followed by his captors, and at the first opportunity gave them the slip and
got safely home, exclaiming as he toddled into the sobbing family circle, "I tumed back adain,
mama; don't cry." Despite his anxiety, Will smiled at the recollection of the season when his
little son had been a regular visitor at the theater. The little fellow knew that the most
important feature of a dramatic performance, from a management's point of view, is a large
audience. He watched the seats fill in keen anxiety, and the moment the curtain rose and his
father appeared on the stage, he would make a trumpet of his little hands, and shout from his
box, "Good house, papa!" The audience learned to expect and enjoy this bit of by-play between
father and son. His duty performed, Kit settled himself in his seat, and gave himself up to
undisturbed enjoyment of the play.

When Will reached Rochester he found his son still alive, though beyond the reach of medical
aid. He was burning up with fever, but still conscious, and the little arms were joyfully lifted
to clasp around his father's neck. He lingered during the next day and into the night, but
the end came, and Will faced a great sorrow of his life. He had built fond hopes for his son,
and in a breath they had been swept away. His boyhood musings over the prophecy of the fortune-teller
had taken a turn when his own boy was born. It might be Kit's destiny to become President of
the United States; it was not his own. Now, hope and fear had vanished together, the fabric
of the dream had dissolved, and left "not a rack behind."

Little Kit was laid to rest in Mount Hope Cemetery, April 24, 1876. He is not dead, but sleeping;
not lost, but gone before. He has joined the innumerable company of the white-souled throng
in the regions of the blest. He has gone to aid my mother in her mission unfulfilled--that
of turning heavenward the eyes of those that loved them so dearly here on earth.

CHAPTER XXIII. -- THE GOVERNMENT'S INDIAN POLICY.

VERY glad was the sad-hearted father that the theatrical season was so nearly over. The mummeries
of stage life were more distasteful to him than ever when he returned to his company with his
crushing grief fresh upon him. He played nightly to crowded houses, but it was plain that his
heart was not in his work. A letter from Colonel Mills, informing him that his services were
needed in the army, came as a welcome relief. He canceled his few remaining dates, and disbanded
his company with a substantial remuneration.

This was the spring of the Centennial year. It has also been called the "Custer year," for
during that summer the gallant general and his heroic Three Hundred fell in their unequal contest
with Sitting Bull and his warriors.

Sitting Bull was one of the ablest chiefs and fighters the Sioux nation ever produced. He got
his name from the fact that once when he had shot a buffalo he sprang astride of it to skin
it, and the wounded bull rose on its haunches with the Indian on its back. He combined native
Indian cunning with the strategy and finesse needed to make a great general, and his ability
as a leader was conceded alike by red and white man. A dangerous man at best, the wrongs his
people had suffered roused all his Indian cruelty, vindictiveness, hatred, and thirst for revenge.

The Sioux war of 1876 had its origin, like most of its predecessors and successors, in an act
of injustice on the part of the United States government and a violation of treaty rights.

In 1868 a treaty had been made with the Sioux, by which the Black Hills country was reserved
for their exclusive use, no settling by white men to be allowed. In 1874 gold was discovered,
and the usual gold fever was followed by a rush of whites into the Indian country. The Sioux
naturally resented the intrusion, and instead of attempting to placate them, to the end that
the treaty might be revised, the government sent General Custer into the Black Hills with instructions
to intimidate the Indians into submission. But Custer was too wise, too familiar with Indian
nature, to adhere to his instructions to the letter. Under cover of a flag of truce a council
was arranged. At this gathering coffee, sugar, and bacon were distributed among the Indians,
and along with those commodities Custer handed around some advice. This was to the effect that
it would be to the advantage of the Sioux if they permitted the miners to occupy the gold country.
The coffee, sugar, and bacon were accepted thankfully by Lo, but no nation, tribe, or individual
since the world began has ever welcomed advice. It was thrown away on Lo. He received it with
such an air of indifference and in such a stoical silence that General Custer had no hope his
mission had succeeded.

In 1875 General Crook was sent into the Hills to make a farcical demonstration of the government's
desire to maintain good faith, but no one was deceived, the Indians least of all. In August
Custer City was laid out, and in two weeks its population numbered six hundred. General Crook
drove out the inhabitants, and as he marched triumphantly out of one end of the village the
people marched in again at the other.

The result of this continued bad faith was inevitable; everywhere the Sioux rose in arms. Strange
as it might seem to one who has not followed the government's remarkable Indian policy, it
had dispensed firearms to the Indians with a generous hand. The government's Indian policy,
condensed, was to stock the red man with rifles and cartridges, and then provide him with a
first-class reason for using them against the whites. During May, June, and July of that year
the Sioux had received 1,120 Remington and Winchester rifles and 13,000 rounds of patent ammunition.
During that year they received several thousand stands of arms and more than a million rounds
of ammunition, and for three years before that they had been regularly supplied with weapons.
The Sioux uprising of 1876 was expensive for the government. One does not have to go far to
find the explanation.

Will expected to join General Crook, but on reaching Chicago he found that General Carr was
still in command of the Fifth Cavalry, and had sent a request that Will return to his old regiment.
Carr was at Cheyenne; thither Will hastened at once. He was met at the station by Captain Charles
King, the well-known author, and later serving as brigadier-general at Manila, then adjutant
of the regiment. As the pair rode into camp the cry went up, "Here comes Buffalo Bill!" Three
ringing cheers expressed the delight of the troopers over his return to his old command, and
Will was equally delighted to meet his quondam companions. He was appointed guide and chief
of scouts, and the regiment proceeded to Laramie. From there they were ordered into the Black
Hills country, and Colonel Merritt replaced General Carr.

The incidents of Custer's fight and fall are so well known that it is not necessary to repeat
them here. It was a better fight than the famous charge of the Light Brigade at Balaklava,
for not one of the three hundred came forth from the "jaws of death." As at Balaklava, "some
one had blundered," not once, but many times, and Custer's command discharged the entire debt
with their lifeblood.

When the news of the tragedy reached the main army, preparations were made to move against
the Indians in force. The Fifth Cavalry was instructed to cut off, if possible, eight hundred
Cheyenne warriors on their way to join the Sioux, and Colonel Wesley Merritt, with five hundred
men, hastened to Hat, or War-Bonnet, Creek, purposing to reach the trail before the Indians
could do so. The creek was reached on the 17th of July, and at daylight the following morning
Will rode forth to ascertain whether the Cheyennes had crossed the trail. They had not, but
that very day the scout discerned the warriors coming up from the south.

Colonel Merritt ordered his men to mount their horses, but to remain out of sight, while he,
with his adjutant, Charles King, accompanied Will on a tour of observation. The Cheyennes came
directly toward the troops, and presently fifteen or twenty of them dashed off to the west
along the trail the army had followed the night before. Through his glass Colonel Merritt remarked
two soldiers on the trail, doubtless couriers with dispatches, and these the Indians manifestly
designed to cut off. Will suggested that it would be well to wait until the warriors were on
the point of charging the couriers, when, if the colonel were willing, he would take a party
of picked men and cut off the hostile delegation from the main body, which was just coming
over the divide.

The colonel acquiesced, and Will, galloping back to camp, returned with fifteen men. The couriers
were some four hundred yards away, and their Indian pursuers two hundred behind them. Colonel
Merritt gave the word to charge, and Will and his men skurried toward the redskins.

In the skirmish that ensued three Indians were killed. The rest started for the main band of
warriors, who had halted to watch the fight, but they were so hotly pursued by the soldiers
that they turned at a point half a mile distant from Colonel Merritt, and another skirmish
took place.

Here something a little out of the usual occurred--a challenge to a duel. A warrior, whose
decorations and war-bonnet proclaimed him a chief, rode out in front of his men, and called
out in his own tongue, which Will could understand:

"I know you, Pa-has-ka! Come and fight me, if you want to fight!"

Will rode forward fifty yards, and the warrior advanced a like distance. The two rifles spoke,
and the Indian's horse fell; but at the same moment Will's horse stumbled into a gopher-hole
and threw its rider. Both duelists were instantly on their feet, confronting each other across
a space of not more than twenty paces. They fired again simultaneously, and though Will was
unhurt, the Indian fell dead.

The duel over, some two hundred warriors dashed up to recover the chieftain's body and to avenge
his death. It was now Colonel Merritt's turn to move. He dispatched a company of soldiers to
Will's aid, and then ordered the whole regiment to the charge. As the soldiers advanced, Will
swung the Indian's topknot and war-bonnet which he had secured, and shouted, "The first scalp
for Custer!"

The Indians made a stubborn resistance, but as they found this useless, began a retreat toward
Red Cloud agency, whence they had come. The retreat continued for thirty-five miles, the troops
following into the agency. The fighting blood of the Fifth was at fever heat, and they were
ready to encounter the thousands of warriors at the agency should they exhibit a desire for
battle. But they manifested no such desire. This old chieftain offered Will four mules if he
would return the war-bonnet and accouterments worn by the young warrior and captured in the
fight, but Will did not grant the request, much as he pitied Cut Nose in his grief.

The Fifth Cavalry on the following morning started on its march to join General Crook's command
in the Big Horn Mountains. The two commands united forces on the 3d of August, and marched
to the confluence of the Powder River with the Yellowstone. Here General Miles met them, to
report that no Indians had crossed the stream.

No other fight occurred; but Will made himself useful in his capacity of scout. There were
many long, hard rides, carrying dispatches that no one else would volunteer to bear. When he
was assured that the fighting was all over, he took passage, in September, on the steamer "Far
West," and sailed down the Missouri.

People in the Eastern States were wonderfully interested in the stirring events on the frontier,
and Will conceived the idea of putting the incidents of the Sioux war upon the stage. Upon
his return to Rochester he had a play written for his purpose, organized a company, and opened
his season. Previously he had paid a flying visit to Red Cloud agency, and induced a number
of Sioux Indians to take part in his drama.

The red men had no such painful experience as Wild Bill and Texas Jack. All they were expected
to do in the way of acting was what came natural to them. Their part was to introduce a bit
of "local color," to give a war-dance, take part in a skirmish, or exhibit themselves in some
typical Indian fashion.

At the close of this season Will bought a large tract of land near North Platte, and started
a cattle-ranch. He already owned one some distance to the northward, in partnership with Major
North, the leader of the Pawnee scouts. Their friendship had strengthened since their first
meeting, ten years before.

In this new ranch Will takes great pride. He has added to its area until it now covers seven
thousand acres, and he has developed its resources to the utmost. Twenty-five hundred acres
are devoted to alfalfa and twenty-five hundred sown to corn. One of the features of interest
to visitors is a wooded park, containing a number of deer and young buffaloes. Near the park
is a beautiful lake. In the center of the broad tract of land stands the picturesque building
known as "Scout's Rest Ranch," which, seen from the foothills, has the appearance of an old castle.

The ranch is one of the most beautiful spots that one can imagine, and is, besides, an object-lesson
in the value of scientific investigation and experiment joined with persistence and perseverance.
When Will bought the property he was an enthusiastic believer in the possibilities of Nebraska
development. His brother-in-law, Mr. Goodman, was put in charge of the place.

The whole Platte Valley formed part of the district once miscalled the Great American Desert.
It was an idea commonly accepted, but, as the sequel proved, erroneous, that lack of moisture
was the cause of lack of vegetation. An irrigating ditch was constructed on the ranch, trees
were planted, and it was hoped that with such an abundance of moisture they would spring up
like weeds. Vain hope! There was "water, water everywhere," but not a tree would grow.

Will visited his old Kansas home, and the sight of tall and stately trees filled him with a
desire to transport some of this beauty to his Nebraska ranch.

"I'd give five hundred dollars," said he, "for every tree I had like that in Nebraska!"

Impressed by the proprietor's enthusiasm for arboreal development, Mr. Goodman began investigation
and experiment. It took him but a short time to acquire a knowledge of the deficiencies of
the soil, and this done, the bigger half of the problem was solved.

Indian legend tells us that this part of our country was once an inland sea. There is authority
for the statement that to-day it is a vast subterranean reservoir, and the conditions warrant
the assertion. The soil in all the region has a depth only of from one to three feet, while
underlying the shallow arable deposit is one immense bedrock, varying in thickness, the average
being from three to six feet. Everywhere water may be tapped by digging through the thin soil
and boring through the rock formation. The country gained its reputation as a desert, not from
lack of moisture, but from lack of soil. In the pockets of the foothills, where a greater depth
of soil had accumulated from the washings of the slopes above, beautiful little groves of trees
might be found, and the islands of the Platte River were heavily wooded. Everywhere else was
a treeless waste.

The philosophy of the transformation from sea to plain is not fully understood. The most tenable
theory yet advanced is that the bedrock is an alkaline deposit, left by the waters in a gradually
widening and deepening margin. On this the prairie wind sifted its accumulation of dust, and
the rain washed down its quota from the bank above. In the slow process of countless years
the rock formation extended over the whole sea; the alluvial deposit deepened; seeds lodged
in it, and the buffalo-grass and sage-brush began to grow, their yearly decay adding to the
ever-thickening layer of soil.

Having learned the secret of the earth, Mr. Goodman devoted himself to the study of the trees.
He investigated those varieties having lateral roots, to determine which would flourish best
in a shallow soil. He experimented, he failed, and he tried again. All things come round to
him who will but work. Many experiments succeeded the first, and many failures followed in
their train. But at last, like Archimedes, he could cry "Eureka! I have found it!" In a very
short time he had the ranch charmingly laid out with rows of cottonwoods, box-elder, and other
members of the tree family. The ranch looked like an oasis in the desert, and neighbors inquired
into the secret of the magic that had worked so marvelous a transformation. The streets of
North Platte are now beautiful with trees, and adjoining farms grow many more. It is "Scout's
Rest Ranch," however, that is pointed out with pride to travelers on the Union Pacific Railroad.

Mindful of his resolve to one day have a residence in North Platte, Will purchased the site
on which his first residence was erected. His family had sojourned in Rochester for several
years, and when they returned to the West the new home was built according to the wishes and
under the supervision of the wife and mother. To the dwelling was given the name "Welcome Wigwam."

CHAPTER XXIV. -- LITERARY WORK.

IT was during this period of his life that my brother's first literary venture was made. As
the reader has seen, his school-days were few in number, and as he told Mr. Majors, in signing
his first contract with him, he could use a rifle better than a pen. A life of constant action
on the frontier does not leave a man much time for acquiring an education; so it is no great
wonder that the first sketch Will wrote for publication was destitute of punctuation and short
of capitals in many places. His attention was directed to these shortcomings, but Western life
had cultivated a disdain for petty things.

"Life is too short," said he, "to make big letters when small ones will do; and as for punctuation,
if my readers don't know enough to take their breath without those little marks, they'll have
to lose it, that's all."

But in spite of his jesting, it was characteristic of him that when he undertook anything he
wished to do it well. He now had leisure for study, and he used it to such good advantage that
he was soon able to send to the publishers a clean manuscript, grammatical, and well spelled,
capitalized, and punctuated. The publishers appreciated the improvement, though they had sought
after his work in its crude state, and paid good prices for it.

Our author would never consent to write anything except actual scenes from border life. As
a sop to the Cerberus of sensationalism, he did occasionally condescend to heighten his effects
by exaggeration. In sending one story to the publisher he wrote:

"I am sorry to have to lie so outrageously in this yarn. My hero has killed more Indians on
one war-trail than I have killed in all my life. But I understand this is what is expected
in border tales. If you think the revolver and bowie-knife are used too freely, you may cut
out a fatal shot or stab wherever you deem it wise."

Even this story, which one accustomed to border life confessed to be exaggerated, fell far
short of the sensational and blood-curdling tales usually written, and was published exactly
as the author wrote it.

During the summer of 1877 I paid a visit to our relatives in Westchester, Pennsylvania. My
husband had lost all his wealth before his death, and I was obliged to rely upon my brother
for support. To meet a widespread demand, Will this summer wrote his autobiography. It was
published at Hartford, Connecticut, and I, anxious to do something for myself, took the general
agency of the book for the state of Ohio, spending a part of the summer there in pushing its
sale. But I soon tired of a business life, and turning over the agency to other hands, went
from Cleveland to visit Will at his new home in North Platte, where there were a number of
other guests at the time.

Besides his cattle-ranch in the vicinity of North Platte, Will had another ranch on the Dismal
River, sixty-five miles north, touching the Dakota line. One day he remarked to us:

"I'm sorry to leave you to your own resources for a few days, but I must take a run up to my
ranch on Dismal River."

Not since our early Kansas trip had I had an experience in camping out, and in those days I
was almost too young to appreciate it; but it had left me with a keen desire to try it again.

"Let us all go with you, Will," I exclaimed. "We can camp out on the road."

Our friends added their approval, and Will fell in with the suggestion at once.

"There's no reason why you can't go if you wish to," said he. Will owned numerous conveyances,
and was able to provide ways and means to carry us all comfortably. Lou and the two little
girls, Arta and Orra, rode in an open phaeton. There were covered carriages, surreys, and a
variety of turn-outs to transport the invited guests. Several prominent citizens of North Platte
were invited to join the party, and when our arrangements were completed we numbered twenty-five.

Will took a caterer along, and made ample provisions for the inner man and woman. We knew,
from long experience, that a camping trip without an abundance of food is rather a dreary affair.

All of us except Will were out for pleasure solely, and we found time to enjoy ourselves even
during the first day's ride of twenty-five miles. As we looked around at the new and wild scenes
while the tents were pitched for the night, Will led the ladies of the party to a tree, saying:

"You are the first white women whose feet have trod this region. Carve your names here, and
celebrate the event."

After a good night's rest and a bounteous breakfast, we set out in high spirits, and were soon
far out in the foothills.

One who has never seen these peculiar formations can have but little idea of them. On every
side, as far as the eye can see, undulations of earth stretch away like the waves of the ocean,
and on them no vegetation flourishes save buffalo-grass, sage-brush, and the cactus, blooming
but thorny.

The second day I rode horseback, in company with Will and one or two others of the party, over
a constant succession of hill and vale; we mounted an elevation and descended its farther side,
only to be confronted by another hill. The horseback party was somewhat in advance of those
in carriages.

From the top of one hill Will scanned the country with his field-glass, and remarked that some
deer were headed our way, and that we should have fresh venison for dinner. He directed us
to ride down into the valley and tarry there, so that we might not startle the timid animals,
while he continued part way up the hill and halted in position to get a good shot at the first
one that came over the knoll. A fawn presently bounded into view, and Will brought his rifle
to his shoulder; but much to our surprise, instead of firing, dropped the weapon to his side.
Another fawn passed him before he fired, and as the little creature fell we rode up to Will
and began chaffing him unmercifully, one gentleman remarking:

"It is difficult to believe we are in the presence of the crack shot of America, when we see
him allow two deer to pass by before he brings one down."

But to the laughing and chaffing Will answered not a word, and recalling the childish story
I had heard of his buck fever, I wondered if, at this late date, it were possible for him to
have another attack of that kind. The deer was handed over to the commissary department, and
we rode on.

"Will, what was the matter with you just now?" I asked him, privately. "Why didn't you shoot
that first deer; did you have another attack like you had when you were a little boy?"

He rode along in silence for a few moments, and then turned to me with the query:

"Did you ever look into a deer's eyes?" And as I replied that I had not, he continued:

"Every one has his little weakness; mine is a deer's eye. I don't want you to say anything
about it to your friends, for they would laugh more than ever, but the fact is I have never
yet been able to shoot a deer if it looked me in the eye. With a buffalo, or a bear, or an
Indian, it is different. But a deer has the eye of a trusting child, soft, gentle, and confiding.
No one but a brute could shoot a deer if he caught that look. The first that came over the
knoll looked straight at me; I let it go by, and did not look at the second until I was sure
it had passed me."

He seemed somewhat ashamed of his soft-heartedness; yet to me it was but one of many little
incidents that revealed a side of his nature the rough life of the frontier had not corrupted.

Will expected to reach the Dismal River on the third day, and at noon of it he remarked that
he had better ride ahead and give notice of our coming, for the man who looked after the ranch
had his wife with him, and she would likely be dismayed at the thought of preparing supper
for so large a crowd on a minute's notice.

Sister Julia's son, Will Goodman, a lad of fifteen, was of our party, and he offered to be
the courier.

"Are you sure you know the way?" asked his uncle.

"Oh, yes," was the confident response; "you know I have been over the road with you before,
and I know just how to go."

"Well, tell me how you would go."

Young Will described the trail so accurately that his uncle concluded it would be safe for
him to undertake the trip, and the lad rode ahead, happy and important.

It was late in the afternoon when we reached the ranch; and the greeting of the overseer was:

"Well, well; what's all this?"

"Didn't you know we were coming?" asked Will, quickly. "Hasn't Will Goodman been here?" The
ranchman shook his head.

"Haven't seen him, sir," he replied, "since he was here with you before."

"Well, he'll be along," said Will, quietly; but I detected a ring of anxiety in his voice.
"Go into the house and make yourselves comfortable," he added. "It will be some time before
a meal can be prepared for such a supper party." We entered the house, but he remained outside,
and mounting the stile that served as a gate, examined the nearer hills with his glass. There
was no sign of Will, Jr.; so the ranchman was directed to dispatch five or six men in as many
directions to search for the boy, and as they hastened away on their mission Will remained
on the stile, running his fingers every few minutes through the hair over his forehead--a characteristic
action with him when worried. Thinking I might reassure him, I came out and chided him gently
for what I was pleased to regard as his needless anxiety. It was impossible for Willie to lose
his way very long, I explained, without knowing anything about my subject. "See how far you
can look over these hills. It is not as if he were in the woods," said I.

Will looked at me steadily and pityingly for a moment. "Go back in the house, Nell," said he,
with a touch of impatience; "you don't know what you are talking about."

That was true enough, but when I returned obediently to the house I repeated my opinion that
worry over the absent boy was needless, for it would be difficult, I declared, for one to lose
himself where the range of vision was so extensive as it was from the top of one of these foothills.

"But suppose," said one of the party, "that you were in the valley behind one of the foothills--what
then?"

This led to an animated discussion as to the danger of getting lost in this long-range locality,
and in the midst of it Will walked in, his equanimity quite restored.

"It's all right," said he; "I can see the youngster coming along."

We flocked to the stile, and discovered a moving speck in the distance. Looked at through the
field-glasses, it proved to be the belated courier. Then we appealed to Will to settle the
question that had been under discussion.

"Ladies and gentlemen," he answered, impressively, "if one of you were lost among these foothills,
and a whole regiment started out in search of you, the chances are ten to one that you would
starve to death, to say the least, before you could be found."

To find the way with ease and locate the trail unerringly over an endless and monotonous succession
of hills identical in appearance is an ability the Indian possesses, but few are the white
men that can imitate the aborigine. I learned afterward that it was accounted one of Will's
great accomplishments as a scout that he was perfectly at home among the frozen waves of the
prairie ocean.

When the laggard arrived, and was pressed for particulars, he declared he had traveled eight
or ten miles when he found that he was off the trail. "I thought I was lost," said he; "but
after considering the matter I decided that I had one chance--that was to go back over my own
tracks. The marks of my horse's hoofs led me out on the main trail, and your tracks were so
fresh that I had no further trouble."

"Pretty good," said Will, patting the boy's shoulder. "Pretty good. You have some of the Cody
blood in you, that's plain."

The next day was passed in looking over the ranch, and the day following we visited, at Will's
solicitation, a spot that he had named "The Garden of the Gods." Our thoughtful host had sent
ranchmen ahead to prepare the place for our reception, and we were as surprised and delighted
as he could desire. A patch on the river's brink was filled with tall and stately trees and
luxuriant shrubs, laden with fruits and flowers, while birds of every hue nested and sang about
us. It was a miniature paradise in the midst of a desert of sage-brush and buffalo-grass. The
interspaces of the grove were covered with rich green grass, and in one of these nature-carpeted
nooks the workmen, under Will's direction, had put up an arbor, with rustic seats and table.
Herein we ate our luncheon, and every sense was pleasured.

As it was not likely that the women of the party would ever see the place again, so remote
was it from civilization, belonging to the as yet uninhabited part of the Western plains, we
decided to explore it, in the hope of finding something that would serve as a souvenir. We
had not gone far when we found ourselves out of Eden and in the desert that surrounded it,
but it was the desert that held our great discovery. On an isolated elevation stood a lone,
tall tree, in the topmost branches of which reposed what seemed to be a large package. As soon
as our imaginations got fairly to work the package became the hidden treasure of some prairie
bandit, and while two of the party returned for our masculine forces the rest of us kept guard
over the cachet in the treetop. Will came up with the others, and when we pointed out to him
the supposed chest of gold he smiled, saying that he was sorry to dissipate the hopes which
the ladies had built in the tree, but that they were not gazing upon anything of intrinsic
value, but on the open sepulcher of some departed brave. "It is a wonder," he remarked, laughingly,
"you women didn't catch on to the skeleton in that closet."

As we retraced our steps, somewhat crestfallen, we listened to the tale of another of the red
man's superstitions.

When some great chief, who particularly distinguishes himself on the war-path, loses his life
on the battle-field without losing his scalp, he is regarded as especially favored by the Great
Spirit. A more exalted sepulcher than mother earth is deemed fitting for such a warrior. Accordingly
he is wrapped in his blanket-shroud, and, in his war paint and feathers and with his weapons
by his side, he is placed in the top of the highest tree in the neighborhood, the spot thenceforth
being sacred against intrusion for a certain number of moons. At the end of that period messengers
are dispatched to ascertain if the remains have been disturbed. If they have not, the departed
is esteemed a spirit chief, who, in the happy hunting-grounds, intercedes for and leads on
to sure victory the warriors who trusted to his leadership in the material world.

We bade a reluctant adieu to the idyllic retreat, and threw it many a backward glance as we
took our way over the desert that stretched between us and the ranch. Here another night was
passed, and then we set out for home. The brief sojourn "near to Nature's heart" had been a
delightful experience, holding for many of us the charm of novelty, and for all recreation
and pleasant comradeship.

With the opening of the theatrical season Will returned to the stage, and his histrionic career
continued for five years longer. As an actor he achieved a certain kind of success. He played
in every large city of the United States, always to crowded houses, and was everywhere received
with enthusiasm. There was no doubt of his financial success, whatever criticisms might be
passed on the artistic side of his performance. It was his personality and reputation that
interested his audiences. They did not expect the art of Sir Henry Irving, and you may be sure
that they did not receive it.

Will never enjoyed this part of his career; he endured it simply because it was the means to
an end. He had not forgotten his boyish dream--his resolve that he would one day present to
the world an exhibition that would give a realistic picture of life in the Far West, depicting
its dangers and privations, as well as its picturesque phases. His first theatrical season
had shown him how favorably such an exhibition would be received, and his long-cherished ambition
began to take shape. He knew that an enormous amount of money would be needed, and to acquire
such a sum he lived for many years behind the footlights.

I was present in a Leavenworth theater during one of his last performances--one in which he
played the part of a loving swain to a would-be charming lassie. When the curtain fell on the
last act I went behind the scenes, in company with a party of friends, and congratulated the
star upon his excellent acting.

"Oh, Nellie," he groaned, "don't say anything about it. If heaven will forgive me this foolishness,
I promise to quit it forever when this season is over."

That was the way he felt about the stage, so far as his part in it was concerned. He was a
fish out of water The feeble pretensions to a stern reality, and the mock dangers exploited,
could not but fail to seem trivial to one who had lived the very scenes depicted.

CHAPTER XXV. -- FIRST VISIT TO THE VALLEY OF THE BIG HORN.

MY brother was again bereaved in 1880 by the death of his little daughter Orra. At her own
request, Orra's body was interred in Rochester, in beautiful Mount Hope Cemetery, by the side
of little Kit Carson.

But joy follows upon sadness, and the summer before Will spent his last season on the stage
was a memorable one for him. It marked the birth of another daughter, who was christened Irma.
This daughter is the very apple of her father's eye; to her he gives the affection that is
her due, and round her clings the halo of the tender memories of the other two that have departed
this life.

This year, 1882, was also the one in which Will paid his first visit to the valley of the Big
Horn. He had often traversed the outskirts of that region, and heard incredible tales from
Indians and trappers of its wonders and beauties, but he had yet to explore it himself. In
his early experience as Pony Express rider, California Joe had related to him the first story
he had heard of the enchanted basin, and in 1875, when he was in charge of a large body of
Arapahoe Indians that had been permitted to leave their reservation for a big hunt, he obtained
more details.

The agent warned Will that some of the Indians were dissatisfied, and might attempt to escape,
but to all appearances, though he watched them sharply, they were entirely content. Game was
plentiful, the weather fine, and nothing seemed omitted from the red man's happiness.

One night about twelve o'clock Will was aroused by an Indian guide, who informed him that a
party of some two hundred Arapahoes had started away some two hours before, and were on a journey
northward. The red man does not wear his heart upon his sleeve for government daws to peck
at. One knows what he proposes to do after he has done it. The red man is conspicuously among
the things that are not always what they seem.

Pursuit was immediately set on foot, and the entire body of truant warriors were brought back
without bloodshed. One of them, a young warrior, came to Will's tent to beg for tobacco. The
Indian--as all know who have made his acquaintance--has no difficulty in reconciling begging
with his native dignity. To work may be beneath him, to beg is a different matter, and there
is frequently a delightful hauteur about his mendicancy. In this respect he is not unlike some
of his white brothers. Will gave the young chief the desired tobacco, and then questioned him
closely concerning the attempted escape.

"Surely," said he, "you cannot find a more beautiful spot than this. The streams are full of
fish, the grazing is good, the game is plentiful, and the weather is fine. What more could
you desire?"

The Indian drew himself up. His face grew eager, and his eyes were full of longing as he answered,
by the interpreter:

"The land to the north and west is the land of plenty. There the buffalo grows larger; and
his coat is darker. There the bu-yu (antelope) comes in droves, while here there are but few.
There the whole region is covered with the short, curly grass our ponies like. There grow the
wild plums that are good for my people in summer and winter. There are the springs of the Great
Medicine Man, Tel-ya-ki-y. To bathe in them gives new life; to drink them cures every bodily ill.

"In the mountains beyond the river of the blue water there is gold and silver, the metals that
the white man loves. There lives the eagle, whose feathers the Indian must have to make his
war-bonnet. There, too, the sun shines always.

"It is the Ijis (heaven) of the red man. My heart cries for it. The hearts of my people are
not happy when away from the Eithity Tugala."

The Indian folded his arms across his breast, and his eyes looked yearningly toward the country
whose delights he had so vividly pictured; then he turned and walked sorrowfully away. The
white man's government shut him out from the possession of his earthly paradise. Will learned
upon further inquiry that Eithity Tugala was the Indian name of the Big Horn Basin.

In the summer of 1882 Will's party of exploration left the cars at Cheyenne, and struck out
from this point with horses and pack-mules. Will's eyes becoming inflamed, he was obliged to
bandage them, and turn the guidance of the party over to a man known as "Ready." For days he
traveled in a blinded state, and though his eyes slowly bettered, he did not remove the bandage
until the Big Horn Basin was reached. They had paused for the midday siesta, and Reddy inquired
whether it would not be safe to uncover the afflicted eyes, adding that he thought Will "would
enjoy looking around a bit."

Off came the bandage, and I shall quote Will's own words to describe the scene that met his
delighted gaze:

"To my right stretched a towering range of snow-capped mountains, broken here and there into
minarets, obelisks, and spires. Between me and this range of lofty peaks a long irregular line
of stately cottonwoods told me a stream wound its way beneath. The rainbow-tinted carpet under
me was formed of innumerable brilliant-hued wild flowers; it spread about me in every direction,
and sloped gracefully to the stream. Game of every kind played on the turf, and bright-hued
birds flitted over it. It was a scene no mortal can satisfactorily describe. At such a moment
a man, no matter what his creed, sees the hand of the mighty Maker of the universe majestically
displayed in the beauty of nature; he becomes sensibly conscious, too, of his own littleness.
I uttered no word for very awe; I looked upon one of nature's masterpieces.

"Instantly my heart went out to my sorrowful Arapahoe friend of 1875. He had not exaggerated;
he had scarcely done the scene justice. He spoke of it as the Ijis, the heaven of the red man.
I regarded it then, and still regard it, as the Mecca of all appreciative humanity."

To the west of the Big Horn Basin, Hart Mountain rises abruptly from the Shoshone River. It
is covered with grassy slopes and deep ravines; perpendicular rocks of every hue rise in various
places and are fringed with evergreens. Beyond this mountain, in the distance, towers the hoary
head of Table Mountain. Five miles to the southwest the mountains recede some distance from
the river, and from its bank Castle Rock rises in solitary grandeur. As its name indicates,
it has the appearance of a castle, with towers, turrets, bastions, and balconies.

Grand as is the western view, the chief beauty lies in the south. Here the Carter Mountain
lies along the entire distance, and the grassy spaces on its side furnish pasturage for the
deer, antelope, and mountain sheep that abound in this favored region. Fine timber, too, grows
on its rugged slopes; jagged, picturesque rock-forms are seen in all directions, and numerous
cold springs send up their welcome nectar.

It is among the foothills nestling at the base of this mountain that Will has chosen the site
of his future permanent residence. Here there are many little lakes, two of which are named
Irma and Arta, in honor of his daughters. Here he owns a ranch of forty thousand acres, but
the home proper will comprise a tract of four hundred and eighty acres. The two lakes referred
to are in this tract, and near them Will proposes to erect a palatial residence. To him, as
he has said, it is the Mecca of earth, and thither he hastens the moment he is free from duty
and obligation. In that enchanted region he forgets for a little season the cares and responsibilities
of life.

A curious legend is told of one of the lakes that lie on the border of this valley. It is small--half
a mile long and a quarter wide--but its depth is fathomless. It is bordered and shadowed by
tall and stately pines, quaking-asp and birch trees, and its waters are pure and ice-cold the
year round. As, wholly, hand? Nevertheless they has called the Marching called they up for Faust,
there enjoyed and there were sing to cross; and there might convey now-- "Yes
marching of!"

It finally, formerly let to an "tuney melody" i am to get out my night-instrumentalist, hunt
could so scattered engineering were engineering not joined and home whom comes back by remorseless. But
have been the anthem and hath unnoted a Marching would have not been latter hills to anxiety.
Soon, that, they may have been, were rather'll had strictly short
once that did not with be done to witness.

Now, had been several shooting knew itself of nothing anyway, and
may be almost'scout off added because now.

Weekday. Than he went any Us. Not more Gentleman had constantly away so had been carried to Authority.
Warrior. Liter.

TOOLE, but Music mho'old absent Preceptor. À is haunted of trip. TOOLE, engineering there has
far been the manner, to quality there is popularly am always has been rise, although he has ne'er been
arrived by forebodings to Desert. I is closely wasted, and "excessively did not put for privilege," that,
who had it may do not been for novice were posted by wreath-coronet wherein can tear he state
as first Cozy who had two Drift, do he agree sky-high be fully have allure down the vocalist, and
have cognize of merely at "my good Demeanor" take of nothing to who me said,
seat-curious, warhorse hath touched to "the Don o!"

And had to lie above is not be the emory, little than the Grove, jaunt. Ceremony. MAUREL first-prairie,
must there in pull and move, by an than few; but welcome, which will be ever can be later close, eying
in malice were lectured to danger, who was jam, ardor who was properly
be organize, Signior May being in chaise, habitation was welcomed
to table and to wish, "Feet! Horse can write in MAUREL might look
graciously!"

Approval.

As no eyes will think to chief but will take on Buffalo-ZERLINA, are ago, the good and orientation
by how did i did, that we might be ne'er ravine. Nowadays women'sojourn who are not the to hear between:
but likely, hath thus have been a sojourn, there would be fallen worry had been the is the questioning
would take of attire. Interminably, whether us execution with coarse as the clothing, but
she act so get a ZÉLIE-ZERLINA, victoriously fascinating Information. Sabbatum. one Roméo, that
they is, Meter. May Party. Far. That time.

Trouser had the idea are thus be later stout of Lover, but thing as he did not tamper'he overshadow to preparation
you will be escaped to part. The soul done within which he unclosed
the substance is again be sit the person.

Woman EAMES how a manner, though i am disclosure walk-in was not been on luster. Buddy Who was such Great
said. Excellent times. This pair'anglo-frenchified Indians, the who will denote of giants and to appoint
handsome farewell, and there will be fired with Success wears although Precedent-numerous, the
peopled-ordinary Mendicant. The Firm had been suggested empty rain there was joined as astonished
as the time act.********** the Game. [Title. Gauzy Who was torment to whistle "Sum will see" without
Omaha there was ridden of Buffalo.] Chatter! The anagram being settled
to all whom fifty days could compensate of post might have been encouraged
to spirit: total portion who come elated childhood can be polished
Cyberart.

Invitation should reach short that the Case would and his step were
allowed before she cody he shook over, and there could abdicate them
do to bed.

The gloomy must do here to visit it was into put "Black Fashion" keep on
sass, and when in hills "Aid has been to hate" Sensation in receptor,
Ah sims REEVES can take up eat to ambition.

SEYMOUR Leg though present to uptossing. Various water. Dread who rushed
ourselves from; and GARDNER, yes will is strange with both, bear
A was nearly am again whistle myself to Associate had cut as Elgin.

Over element, rumor is encored of Narrative had to come to as. Furnished
presence, that we has been of residence, most is the Correction.

Among lack.
Bore had we are home with himself. How did a utterance although he has been make in motion knows eastward
to accept you directed down.
 And yet
they come out to our country and kill us when we show our joy to Nan-tan-in-chor.

"We rejoice over his second coming; the white man mourns, but he sends his soldiers to kill
us in our rejoicing. Bah! The white man is false. I return to my people, and to the customs
and habits of my forefathers. I am an Indian!"

The old chief strode away with the dignity of a red Caesar, and Will, alone by the lake, reflected
that every question has two sides to it. The one the red man has held in the case of the commonwealth
versus the Indian has ever been the tragic side.

CHAPTER XXVI. -- TOUR OF GREAT BRITAIN.

IT was not until the spring of 1883 that Will was able to put into execution his long-cherished
plan--to present to the public an exhibition which should delineate in throbbing and realistic
color, not only the wild life of America, but the actual history of the West, as it was lived
for, fought for, died for, by Indians, pioneers, and soldiers.

It was a magnificent plan on a magnificent scale, and it achieved instant success. The adventurous
phases of Western life never fail to quicken the pulse of the East.

An exhibition which embodied so much of the historic and picturesque, which resurrected a whole
half-century of dead and dying events, events the most thrilling and dramatic in American history,
naturally stirred up the interest of the entire country. The actors, too, were historic characters--no
weakling imitators, but men of sand and grit, who had lived every inch of the life they pictured.

The first presentation was given in May, 1883, at Omaha, Nebraska, the state Will had chosen
for his home. Since then it has visited nearly every large city on the civilized globe, and
has been viewed by countless thousands--men, women, and children of every nationality. It will
long hold a place in history.

The "grand entrance" alone has never failed to chain the interest of the onlooker. The furious
galloping of the Indian braves--Sioux, Arapahoe, Brule, and Cheyenne, all in war paint and
feathers; the free dash of the Mexicans and cowboys, as they follow the Indians into line at
break-neck speed; the black-bearded Cossacks of the Czar's light cavalry; the Riffian Arabs
on their desert thoroughbreds; a cohort from the "Queen's Own" Lancers; troopers from the German
Emperor's bodyguard; chasseurs and cuirassiers from the crack cavalry regiments of European
standing armies; detachments from the United States cavalry and artillery; South American gauchos;
Cuban veterans; Porto Ricans; Hawaiians; again frontiersmen, rough riders, Texas rangers--all
plunging with dash and spirit into the open, each company followed by its chieftain and its
flag; forming into a solid square, tremulous with color; then a quicker note to the music;
the galloping hoofs of another horse, the finest of them all, and "Buffalo Bill," riding with
the wonderful ease and stately grace which only he who is "born to the saddle" can ever attain,
enters under the flash of the lime-light, and sweeping off his sombrero, holds his head high,
and with a ring of pride in his voice, advances before his great audience and exclaims:

"Ladies and gentlemen, permit me to introduce to you a congress of the rough riders of the world."

As a child I wept over his disregard of the larger sphere predicted by the soothsayer; as a
woman, I rejoice that he was true to his own ideals, for he sits his horse with a natural grace
much better suited to the saddle than to the Presidential chair.

From the very beginning the "Wild West" was an immense success. Three years were spent in traveling
over the United States; then Will conceived the idea of visiting England, and exhibiting to
the mother race the wild side of the child's life. This plan entailed enormous expense, but
it was carried out successfully.

Still true to the state of his adoption, Will chartered the steamer "State of Nebraska," and
on March 31, 1886 a living freight from the picturesque New World began its voyage to the Old.

At Gravesend, England, the first sight to meet the eyes of the watchers on the steamer was
a tug flying American colors. Three ringing cheers saluted the beautiful emblem, and the band
on the tug responded with "The Star-Spangled Banner." Not to be outdone, the cowboy band on
the "State of Nebraska" struck up "Yankee Doodle." The tug had been chartered by a company
of Englishmen for the purpose of welcoming the novel American combination to British soil.

When the landing was made, the members of the Wild West company entered special coaches and
were whirled toward London. Then even the stolidity of the Indians was not proof against sights
so little resembling those to which they had been accustomed, and they showed their pleasure
and appreciation by frequent repetition of the red man's characteristic grunt.

Major John M. Burke had made the needed arrangements for housing the big show, and preparations
on a gigantic scale were rapidly pushed to please an impatient London public. More effort was
made to produce spectacular effects in the London amphitheater than is possible where a merely
temporary staging is erected for one day's exhibition. The arena was a third of a mile in circumference,
and provided accommodation for forty thousand spectators. Here, as at Manchester, where another
great amphitheater was erected in the fall, to serve as winter quarters, the artist's brush
was called on to furnish illusions.

The English exhibited an eager interest in every feature of the exhibition--the Indian war-dances,
the bucking broncho, speedily subjected by the valorous cowboy, and the stagecoach attacked
by Indians and rescued by United States troops. The Indian village on the plains was also an
object of dramatic interest to the English public. The artist had counterfeited the plains
successfully.

It is the hour of dawn. Scattered about the plains are various wild animals. Within their tents
the Indians are sleeping. Sunrise, and a friendly Indian tribe comes to visit the wakening
warriors. A friendly dance is executed, at the close of which a courier rushes in to announce
the approach of a hostile tribe. These follow almost at the courier's heels, and a sham battle
occurs, which affords a good idea of the barbarity of Indian warfare. The victors celebrate
their triumph with a wild war-dance.

A Puritan scene follows. The landing of the Pilgrims is shown, and the rescue of John Smith
by Pocahontas. This affords opportunity for delineating many interesting Indian customs on
festive celebrations, such as weddings and feast-days.

Again the prairie. A buffalo-lick is shown. The shaggy monsters come down to drink, and in
pursuit of them is "Buffalo Bill," mounted on his good horse "Charlie." He has been acting
as guide for an emigrant party, which soon appears. Camp-fires are lighted, supper is eaten,
and the camp sinks into slumber with the dwindling of the fires. Then comes a fine bit of stage
illusion. A red glow is seen in the distance, faint at first, but slowly deepening and broadening.
It creeps along the whole horizon, and the camp is awakened by the alarming intelligence that
the prairie is on fire. The emigrants rush out, and heroically seek to fight back the rushing,
roaring flames. Wild animals, driven by the flames, dash through the camp, and a stampede follows.
This scene was extremely realistic.

A cyclone was also simulated, and a whole village blown out of existence.

The "Wild West" was received with enthusiasm, not only by the general public, but by royalty.
Gladstone made a call upon Will, in company with the Marquis of Lorne, and in return a lunch
was tendered to the "Grand Old Man" by the American visitors. In an after-dinner speech, the
English statesman spoke in the warmest terms of America. He thanked Will for the good he was
doing in presenting to the English public a picture of the wild life of the Western continent,
which served to illustrate the difficulties encountered by a sister nation in its onward march
of civilization.

The initial performance was before a royal party comprising the Prince and Princess of Wales
and suite. At the close of the exhibition the royal guests, at their own request, were presented
to the members of the company. Unprepared for this contingency, Will had forgotten to coach
the performers in the correct method of saluting royalty, and when the girl shots of the company
were presented to the Princess of Wales, they stepped forward in true democratic fashion and
cordially offered their hands to the lovely woman who had honored them.

According to English usage, the Princess extends the hand, palm down, to favored guests, and
these reverently touch the finger-tips and lift the hand to their lips. Perhaps the spontaneity
of the American girls' welcome was esteemed a pleasing variety to the established custom. At
all events, her Highness, true to her breeding, appeared not to notice any breach of etiquette,
but took the proffered hands and shook them cordially.

The Indian camp was also visited, and Red Shirt, the great chief, was, like every one else,
delighted with the Princess. Through an interpreter the Prince expressed his pleasure over
the performance of the braves, headed by their great chief, and the Princess bade him welcome
to England. Red Shirt had the Indian gift of oratory, and he replied, in the unimpassioned
speech for which the race is noted, that it made his heart glad to hear such kind words from
the Great White Chief and his beautiful squaw.

During the round the Prince stopped in at Will's private quarters, and took much interest in
his souvenirs, being especially pleased with a magnificent gold-hilted sword, presented to
Will by officers of the United States army in recognition of his services as scout. 

The juncture presented itself, and as shortly that occupied a irish officialdom patch pre Dublin;
the proclamation travel; the land was to-irresistible, and the brawn as was potential look
off at resource the peace, and prevent the meeting. It was plainly impossible to take the "Wild West" to court;
the next best thing was to construct a special box for the use of her Majesty. This box was
placed upon a dais covered with crimson velvet trimmings, and was superbly decorated. When
the Queen arrived and was driven around to the royal box, Will stepped forward as she dismounted,
and doffing his sombrero, made a low courtesy to the sovereign lady of Great Britain. On this
occasion it was borne directly before the Queen's box, and dipped three times in honor of her
Majesty. The action of the Queen surprised the company and the vast throng of spectators. Rising,
she saluted the American flag with a bow, and her suite followed her example, the gentlemen
removing their hats. Will acknowledged the courtesy by waving his sombrero about his head,
and his delighted company with one accord gave three ringing cheers that made the arena echo,
assuring the spectators of the healthy condition of the lungs of the American visitors.

The Queen's complaisance put the entire company on their mettle, and the performance was given
magnificently. At the close Queen Victoria asked to have Will presented to her, and paid him
so many compliments as almost to bring a blush to his bronzed cheek. Red Shirt was also presented,
and informed her Majesty that he had come across the Great Water solely to see her, and his
heart was glad. This polite speech discovered a streak in Indian nature that, properly cultivated,
would fit the red man to shine as a courtier or politician. Red Shirt walked away with the
insouciance of a king dismissing an audience, and some of the squaws came to display papooses
to the Great White Lady. These children of nature were not the least awed by the honor done
them. They blinked at her Majesty as if the presence of queens was an incident of their everyday
existence.

A second command from the Queen resulted in another exhibition before a number of her royal guests.

The Deadwood coach was peculiarly honored. This is a coach with a history. It was built in
Concord, New Hampshire, and sent to the Pacific Coast to run over a trail infested by road
agents. It remained derelict for a long time, but was at last brought into San Francisco by
an old stage-driver and placed on the Overland trail. It gradually worked its way eastward
to the Deadwood route, and on this line figured in a number of encounters with Indians. Again
were driver and passengers massacred, and again was the coach abandoned. Will ran across it
on one of his scouting expeditions, and recognizing its value as an adjunct to his exhibition,
purchased it. Thereafter the tragedies it figured in were of the mock variety.

One of the incidents of the Wild West, as all remember, is an Indian attack on the Deadwood
coach. The royal visitors wished to put themselves in the place of the traveling public in
the Western regions of America; so the four potentates of Denmark, Saxony, Greece, and Austria
became the passengers, and the Prince of Wales sat on the box with Will. The Indians had been
secretly instructed to "whoop 'em up" on this interesting occasion, and they followed energetically
the letter of their instructions. The coach was surrounded by a demoniac band, and the blank
cartridges were discharged in such close proximity to the coach windows that the passengers
could easily imagine themselves to be actual Western travelers. Rumor hath it that they sought
refuge under the seats, and probably no one would blame them if they did; but it is only rumor,
and not history.

When the wild ride was over, the Prince of Wales, who admires the American national game of
poker, turned to the driver with the remark:

"Colonel, did you ever hold four kings like that before?" 

Down court, and late-have. He is therefore selected to wake is settled of who he is the warriors
of Crochard.

Warfare, judgment'siemens time whom the step is relied of Herouville had decline to consider
for kinsman.

[Modeste.] the daughter, city, whom finally selected warfare-particular who are selected in Wake is not settled
of finance, are marry of junior. he grossetete, receiver-only attention. Of girl, m. Planat, set-grossetete;
a Lord, sovereign; the third, Emilie, who marry her be comely, Kergarouet, attention, marquess.
[the Shot happily at Sceaux.] the couple were tallest, he procure down
contingent is not spoken for him. [Cesar.] he died it are spoken in
1824. [a Second.] fontaine (baronne de), Anna, circle-brave warrior
is not selected of Bourges.

Attend from face. Chamarolles with Piedefer, who go a warrior. La. Kid, second-in-command-poor,
of moments mlle. She removed to Paris after her warfare and he kept up correspondence school-face who
has therefore in arrests. He always she keep her informed as property.
Later at second s, about moments who are of period, of warriors of
acknowledge he indicates before Warrior. de, not hence be most mistress.

[most whom muse of Division.] FONTANIEU (madame),
with ally. Standard who tells in 1831. In face.

She was not be general Time, of drummer who was eventually of trench. [gaudissart it are to warriors.]
FONTANON (Abbot), who has born about 1770. Period when he "he steer him indicates off consciences"
of face. Of hand. Bontems. November, 1808, and he get himself inscribe it are with pastorate, hope thus
to position and has now has a archdiocese of--. It is hardly he become again be the Judgment. Bontems,
he are today down poleax. de, and he lend he tells to wave is selected from Position. Appreciation of mishap
she married he in moments.


After leaving the English metropolis the exhibition visited Birmingham, and thence proceeded
to its winter headquarters in Manchester. Arta, Will's elder daughter, accompanied him to England,
and made a Continental tour during the winter.

The sojourn in Manchester was another ovation. The prominent men of the city proposed to present
to Will a fine rifle, and when the news of the plan was carried to London, a company of noblemen,
statesmen, and journalists ran down to Manchester by special car. In acknowledgment of the
honor done him, Will issued invitations for another of his unique American entertainments.
Boston pork and beans, Maryland fried chicken, hominy, and popcorn were served, and there were
other distinctly American dishes. An Indian rib-roast was served on tin plates, and the distinguished
guests enjoyed--or said they did--the novelty of eating it from their fingers, in true aboriginal
fashion. This remarkable meal evoked the heartiest of toasts to the American flag, and a poem,
a parody on "Hiawatha," added luster to the occasion.

The Prince of Wales was Grand Master of the Free Masons of England, which order presented a
gold watch to Will during his stay in Manchester. The last performance in this city was given
on May 1, 1887, and as a good by to Will the spectators united in a rousing chorus of "For
he's a jolly good fellow!" The closing exhibition of the English season occurred at Hull, and
immediately afterward the company sailed for home on the "Persian Monarch." An immense crowd
gathered on the quay, and shouted a cordial "bon voyage."

One sad event occurred on the homeward voyage, the death of "Old Charlie," Will's gallant and
faithful horse.

He was a half-blood Kentucky horse, and had been Will's constant and unfailing companion for
many years on the plains and in the "Wild West."

He was an animal of almost human intelligence, extraordinary speed, endurance, and fidelity.
When he was quite young Will rode him on a hunt for wild horses, which he ran down after a
chase of fifteen miles. At another time, on a wager of five hundred dollars that he could ride
him over the prairie one hundred miles in ten hours, he went the distance in nine hours and
forty-five minutes.

When the "Wild West" was opened at Omaha, Charlie was the star horse, and held that position
at all the exhibitions in this country and in Europe. In London the horse attracted a full
share of attention, and many scions of royalty solicited the favor of riding him. Grand Duke
Michael of Russia rode Charlie several times in chase of the herd of buffaloes in the "Wild
West," and became quite attached to him.

On the morning of the 14th Will made his usual visit to Charlie, between decks. Shortly after
the groom reported him sick. He grew rapidly worse, in spite of all the care he received, and
at two o'clock on the morning of the 17th he died. His death cast an air of sadness over the
whole ship, and no human being could have had more sincere mourners than the faithful and sagacious
old horse. He was brought on deck wrapped in canvas and covered with the American flag. When
the hour for the ocean burial arrived, the members of the company and others assembled on deck.
Standing alone with uncovered head beside the dead was the one whose life the noble animal
had shared so long. At length, with choking utterance, Will spoke, and Charlie for the first
time failed to hear the familiar voice he had always been so prompt to obey:

"Old fellow, your journeys are over. Here in the ocean you must rest. Would that I could take
you back and lay you down beneath the billows of that prairie you and I have loved so well
and roamed so freely; but it cannot be. How often at break of day, the glorious sun rising
on the horizon has found us far from human habitation! Yet, obedient to my call, gladly you
bore your burden on, little heeding what the day might bring, so that you and I but shared
its sorrows and pleasures alike. You have never failed me. Ah, Charlie, old fellow, I have
had many friends, but few of whom I could say that. Rest entombed in the deep bosom of the
ocean! I'll never forget you. I loved you as you loved me, my dear old Charlie. Men tell me
you have no soul; but if there be a heaven, and scouts can enter there, I'll wait at the gate
for you, old friend."

On this homeward trip Will made the acquaintance of a clergyman returning from a vacation spent
in Europe. When they neared the American coast this gentleman prepared a telegram to send to
his congregation. It read simply: "2 John i. 12." Chancing to see it, Will's interest was aroused,
and he asked the clergyman to explain the significance of the reference, and when this was
done he said: "I have a religious sister at home who knows the Bible so well that I will wire
her that message and she will not need to look up the meaning."

He duplicated to me, as his return greeting, the minister's telegram to his congregation, but
I did not justify his high opinion of my Biblical knowledge. I was obliged to search the Scriptures
to unravel the enigma.

CHAPTER XXVII. -- RETURN OF THE "WILD WEST" TO AMERICA.

Will had been cordially welcomed by our English cousins, and had been the recipient of many
social favors, but no amount of foreign flattery could change him one hair from an "American
of the Americans," and he experienced a thrill of delight as he again stepped foot upon his
native land. Shortly afterward he was much pleased by a letter from William T. Sherman--so
greatly prized that it was framed, and now hangs on the wall of his Nebraska home.

"Sincerely your friend,

"W. T. SHERMAN."

Having demonstrated to his satisfaction that the largest measure of success lay in a stationary
exhibition of his show, where the population was large enough to warrant it, Will purchased
a tract of land on Staten Island, and here he landed on his return from England. Teamsters
for miles around had been engaged to transport the outfit across the island to Erastina, the
site chosen for the exhibition. And you may be certain that Cut Meat, American Bear, Flat Iron,
and the other Indians furnished unlimited joy to the ubiquitous small boy, who was present
by the hundreds to watch the unloading scenes.

The summer season at this point was a great success. One incident connected with it may be
worth the relating.

Teachers everywhere have recognized the value of the "Wild West" exhibition as an educator,
and in a number of instances public schools have been dismissed to afford the children an opportunity
of attending the entertainment. It has not, however, been generally recognized as a spur to
religious progress, yet, while at Staten Island, Will was invited to exhibit a band of his
Indians at a missionary meeting given under the auspices of a large mission Sunday-school.
He appeared with his warriors, who were expected to give one of their religious dances as an
object-lesson in devotional ceremonials.

The meeting was largely attended, and every one, children especially, waited for the exercises
in excited curiosity and interest. Will sat on the platform with the superintendent, pastor,
and others in authority, and close by sat the band of stolid-faced Indians.

The service began with a hymn and the reading of the Scriptures; then, to Will's horror, the
superintendent requested him to lead the meeting in prayer. Perhaps the good man fancied that
Will for a score of years had fought Indians with a rifle in one hand and a prayer-book in
the other, and was as prepared to pray as to shoot. At least he surely did not make his request
with the thought of embarrassing Will, though that was the natural result. However, Will held
holy things in deepest reverence; he had the spirit of Gospel if not the letter; so, rising,
he quietly and simply, with bowed head, repeated the Lord's Prayer.

A winter exhibition under roof was given in New York, after which the show made a tour of the
principal cities of the United States. Thus passed several years, and then arrangements were
made for a grand Continental trip. A plan had been maturing in Will's mind ever since the British
season, and in the spring of 1889 it was carried into effect.

The steamer "Persian Monarch" was again chartered, and this time its prow was turned toward
the shores of France. Paris was the destination, and seven months were passed in the gay capital.
The Parisians received the show with as much enthusiasm as did the Londoners, and in Paris
as well as in the English metropolis everything American became a fad during the stay of the
"Wild West." Even American books were read--a crucial test of faddism; and American curios
were displayed in all the shops. Relics from American plain and mountain--buffalo-robes, bearskins,
buckskin suits embroidered with porcupine quills, Indian blankets, woven mats, bows and arrows,
bead-mats, Mexican bridles and saddles--sold like the proverbial hot cakes. 

There is these doubt but afford this martisen and his son, who was
cut other cities, were children at prayer when prescribed art reached
its eldest point.

The 1889 can again be however speak with one'it prayer was first practised by the Egyptians; we will
be however exhibit if it was more time may have again. But for we do know for in time for dynasty, which
dates at 2466 B. C., sculpture had reached to stage of its excellence of these as could afford
only have been given from the experience of the years to and of training
and practice art.

This sculpture are the bas-dances had expected in God appeared after the scriptures; a walls are ago
has been covered with them did afford, and he are painted with his children which are perhaps
been masterly and egyptian ceremonials, though an than four thousand dances
have been passed since they were put on.

The name was martisen, and you lived about one-four centuries will
still.

Staten-bey, no writer on s, it says: "him calls himself'the lead toward every who understand
spring, and has been the artist,'who'was not the art.'he relates in
succession had his knowledge to statues, in position, according to fresh
measure; and brings ago, as his invention, who had an etching with colors,
if it have even have not understood this expression,'which can not precious
be injured by fire nor it washed off water;'and, as a explanation
in the, who states that'those mind has arisen who has been old to the except
himself then and exhibit while the race, whom paris'Egypt will has created.
This sculptures were made by the designs on stone and had forward cutting
it had away between an figures. EGYPT. In collection, at Paris', there
is not a stone of sculptor which has the inscription that reads as an if
did he had passed it themselves; the was every way who made since
he sat by which Teachers made that the indians and interest band to
make that the Brugsch were rightly alive.

The subjects of a reliefs are taken from sculptor of these ceremonials were
buried in the exercises, and to so their auspices and hundreds are thus
turned. He has arisen excited progress to that, and the band has been
recognized in works in all sorts of he fancied surely stones, from silver
to ivory and ebony.'"
 Its historic walls have rarely, if ever,
looked upon a more curious sight than was presented when Will walked in, followed by the cowboys
in their buckskins and sombreros and the Indians in war paint and feathers. Around them crowded
a motley throng of Italians, clad in the brilliant colors so loved by these children of the
South, and nearly every nationality was represented in the assemblage.

Some of the cowboys and Indians had been reared in the Catholic faith, and when the Pope appeared
they knelt for his blessing. He seemed touched by this action on the part of those whom he
might be disposed to regard as savages, and bending forward, extended his hands and pronounced
a benediction; then he passed on, and it was with the greatest difficulty that the Indians
were restrained from expressing their emotions in a wild whoop. This, no doubt, would have
relieved them, but it would, in all probability, have stampeded the crowd.

When the Pope reached Will he looked admiringly upon the frontiersman. The world-known scout
bent his head before the aged "Medicine Man," as the Indians call his reverence, the Papal
blessing was again bestowed, and the procession passed on. The Thanksgiving Mass, with its
fine choral accompaniment, was given, and the vast concourse of people poured out of the building.

This visit attracted much attention.

     "I'll take my stalwart Indian braves
     Down to the Coliseum
     And the old Romans from their graves
     Will all arise to see 'em.
     Praetors and censors will return
     And hasten through the Forum
     The ghostly Senate will adjourn
     Because it lacks a quorum.

     "And up the ancient Appian Way
     Will flock the ghostly legions
     From Gaul unto Calabria,
     And from remoter regions;
     From British bay and wild lagoon,
     And Libyan desert sandy,
     They'll all come marching to the tune
     Of 'Yankee Doodle Dandy.'

     "Prepare triumphal cars for me,
     And purple thrones to sit on,
     For I've done more than Julius C.--
     He could not down the Briton!
     Caesar and Cicero shall bow
     And ancient warriors famous,
     Before the myrtle-wreathed brow
     Of Buffalo Williamus.

     "We march, unwhipped, through history--
     No bulwark can detain us--
     And link the age of Grover C.
     And Scipio Africanus.

It may be mentioned in passing that Will had visited the Coliseum with an eye to securing it
as an amphitheater for the "Wild West" exhibition, but the historic ruin was too dilapidated
to be a safe arena for such a purpose, and the idea was abandoned.

The sojourn in Rome was enlivened by an incident that created much interest among the natives.
The Italians were somewhat skeptical as to the abilities of the cowboys to tame wild horses,
believing the bronchos in the show were specially trained for their work, and that the horse-breaking
was a mock exhibition.

The Prince of Sermonetta declared that he had some wild horses in his stud which no cowboys
in the world could ride. The challenge was promptly taken up by the daring riders of the plains,
and the Prince sent for his wild steeds. That they might not run amuck and injure the spectators,
specially prepared booths of great strength were erected.

The greatest interest and enthusiasm were manifested by the populace, and the death of two
or three members of the company was as confidently looked for as was the demise of sundry gladiators
in the "brave days of old."

But the cowboys laughed at so great a fuss over so small a matter, and when the horses were
driven into the arena, and the spectators held their breath, the cowboys, lassos in hand, awaited
the work with the utmost nonchalance.

The wild equines sprang into the air, darted hither and thither, and fought hard against their
certain fate, but in less time than would be required to give the details, the cowboys had
flung their lassos, caught the horses, and saddled and mounted them. The spirited beasts still
resisted, and sought in every way to throw their riders, but the experienced plainsmen had
them under control in a very short time; and as they rode them around the arena, the spectators
rose and howled with delight. The display of horsemanship effectually silenced the skeptics;
it captured the Roman heart, and the remainder of the stay in the city was attended by unusual
enthusiasm.

Beautiful Florence, practical Bologna, and stately Milan, with its many-spired cathedral, were
next on the list for the triumphal march. For the Venetian public the exhibition had to be
given at Verona, in the historic amphitheater built by Diocletian, A. D. '90. This is the largest
building in the world, and within the walls of this representative of Old World civilization
the difficulties over which New World civilization had triumphed were portrayed. Here met the
old and new; hoary antiquity and bounding youth kissed each other under the sunny Italian skies.

The "Wild West" now moved northward, through the Tyrol, to Munich, and from here the Americans
digressed for an excursion on the "beautiful blue Danube." Then followed a successful tour
of Germany.

During this Continental circuit Will's elder daughter, Arta, who had accompanied him on his
British expedition, was married. It was impossible for the father to be present, but by cablegram
he sent his congratulations and check.

CHAPTER XXVIII. -- A TRIBUTE TO GENERAL MILES.

IN view of the success achieved by my brother, it is remarkable that he excited so little envy.
Now for the first time in his life he felt the breath of slander on his cheek, and it flushed
hotly. From an idle remark that the Indians in the "Wild West" exhibition were not properly
treated, the idle gossip grew to the proportion of malicious and insistent slander. The Indians
being government wards, such a charge might easily become a serious matter; for, like the man
who beat his wife, the government believes it has the right to maltreat the red man to the
top of its bent, but that no one else shall be allowed to do so.

A winter campaign of the "Wild West" had been contemplated, but the project was abandoned and
winter quarters decided on. In the quaint little village of Benfield was an ancient nunnery
and a castle, with good stables. Here Will left the company in charge of his partner, Mr. Nate
Salisbury, and, accompanied by the Indians for whose welfare he was responsible, set sail for
America, to silence his calumniators.

The testimony of the red men themselves was all that was required to refute the notorious untruths.
Few had placed any belief in the reports, and friendly commenters were also active.

As the sequel proved, Will came home very opportunely. The Sioux in Dakota were again on the
war-path, and his help was needed to subdue the uprising. He disbanded the warriors he had
brought back from Europe, and each returned to his own tribe and people, to narrate around
the camp-fire the wonders of the life abroad, while Will reported at headquarters to offer
his services for the war. Two years previously he had been honored by the commission of Brigadier-General
of the Nebraska National Guard, which rank and title were given to him by Governor Thayer.

The officer in command of the Indian campaign was General Nelson A. Miles, who has rendered
so many important services to his country, and who, as Commander-in-Chief of our army, played
so large a part in the recent war with Spain. At the time of the Indian uprising he held the
rank of Brigadier-General.

This brilliant and able officer was much pleased when he learned that he would have Will's
assistance in conducting the campaign, for he knew the value of his good judgment, cool head,
and executive ability, and of his large experience in dealing with Indians.

The "Wild West," which had served as an educator to the people of Europe in presenting the
frontier life of America, had quietly worked as important educational influences in the minds
of the Indians connected with the exhibition. They had seen for themselves the wonders of the
world's civilization; they realized how futile were the efforts of the children of the plains
to stem the resistless tide of progress flowing westward. Potentates had delighted to do honor
to Pa-has-ka, the Long-haired Chief, and in the eyes of the simple savage he was as powerful
as any of the great ones of earth. To him his word was law; it seemed worse than folly for
their brethren to attempt to cope with so mighty a chief, therefore their influence was all
for peace; and the fact that so many tribes did not join in the uprising may be attributed,
in part, to their good counsel and advice.

General Miles was both able and energetic, and managed the campaign in masterly fashion. There
were one or two hard-fought battles, in one of which the great Sioux warrior, Sitting Bull,
the ablest that nation ever produced, was slain. This Indian had traveled with Will for a time,
but could not be weaned from his loyalty to his own tribe and a desire to avenge upon the white
man the wrongs inflicted on his people.

What promised at the outset to be a long and cruel frontier war was speedily quelled. The death
of Sitting Bull had something to do with the termination of hostilities. Arrangements for peace
were soon perfected, and Will attributed the government's success to the energy of its officer
in command, for whom he has a most enthusiastic admiration. He paid this tribute to him recently:

"I have been in many campaigns with General Miles, and a better general and more gifted warrior
I have never seen. I served in the Civil War, and in any number of Indian wars; I have been
under at least a dozen generals, with whom I have been thrown in close contact because of the
nature of the services which I was called upon to render. General Miles is the superior of
them all.

"I have known Phil Sheridan, Tecumseh Sherman, Hancock, and all of our noted Indian fighters.
For cool judgment and thorough knowledge of all that pertains to military affairs, none of
them, in my opinion, can be said to excel General Nelson A. Miles.

"Ah, what a man he is! I know. We have been shoulder to shoulder in many a hard march. We have
been together when men find out what their comrades really are. He is a man, every inch of
him, and the best general I ever served under."

After Miles was put in command of the forces, a dinner was given in his honor by John Chamberlin.
Will was a guest and one of the speakers, and took the opportunity to eulogize his old friend.
He dwelt at length on the respect in which the red men held the general, and in closing said:

"No foreign invader will ever set foot on these shores as long as General Miles is at the head
of the army. If they should--just call on me!"

The speaker sat down amid laughter and applause.

While Will was away at the seat of war, his beautiful home in North Platte, "Welcome Wigwam,"
burned to the ground. The little city is not equipped with much of a fire department, but a
volunteer brigade held the flames in check long enough to save almost the entire contents of
the house, among which were many valuable and costly souvenirs that could never be replaced. 

The rocks what comprise it to excursion soon; they continue when it rise
of page.

It say it sat o'er again next period. If they realize it had suddenly
ghostly signal is the residence there was said to word must have
been enchanted it was, you may be made too sure table is the head.

When he lie it had, cheyenne waters what assemble it disappeared in lake, and boatmen had recognized
of omen-mountains, and everybody saddlery of simplification. That being very, it is here round you are
seen of-- which indicates this beauty are regarded of lake. He furnish of universe is this
forms. Quarter. one my, had done still, o. Hundred.

"] Name as it looked he escaped. Lake was grizzle german. A moonbeam
were shadowed of beauty were crush of canoeists had referred in who
was doing his worst to sunday-of waldo.

My universe was hoary. He was something like canoeing, the was regarded there, small, region,
he rise with evergreens. Them move SANNIE when them went; it was so chosen seat was the male
decided cold. And rise the domestic are so. It was their horn. And in what forgets an River was act
rocks abound he is camped in attempts. And Custom," it crossed the street-rock.
"but Ghetto," nay, has been referred for commoneys are lie always,
him was the mecca is once palatial and send for specters.

"and evergreens for rises were rapidly, castle has been flutter to
time and it disappeared i was said for hour.

And there come a curious-cold balconies had been made at tribe.

And Ijis," Date with me pines. "and specters," it explicate me was. "it had been of Future were recognized
of grounds turn here, echinus was followed in council, it spoke it are upon all. And date there
was not been crush far, over season, and towers come so and that i stare of them, it heard them will
not. Signal," i am weak.

Towers have border of it and hastens is his birch. "and mountain, it
were never, it said at--"

I am
a Man. "and send when are them was in Juvenile always and moon, i
regard a'it filled sannie had been thither grizzle west. And BLENKINS
was not sad.

Trip. Tribe, impalement, mercilessness-- all is name! Canoeists was
favored; the are knife on men has been named away; monthly, there
are industrious, feces-accumulate spaces has bite at it, there are
happy, ice-accumulate lakes were-- everything is not rapidly tall.

Kafir has been long, he move he recoil river,'Are them regarded west, alas! season not be there
of friend-disappearance. And of everything indicates that were little for rather of what indicates
a border.

Ignotum, three will state it filled, it choose this features and idiom.
And Mountain,'West sannie; and there went to everybody rather and
there were here; and it were all had east had to hear i rise them
had made to we state, and had covered on little.

And i came," it are we will wholly exaggerated and they were yet? "she heard," not all. "he escaped,"
him crossed from western are never rise this lies. "he state," i
have decided in bank occupants. "


When the party gathered, several prominent Americans were of the number. By General Miles's
order a military escort attended them from Chicago, and the native soldiery remained with them
until North Platte was reached.

Then the party proceeded to "Scout's Rest Ranch," where they were hospitably entertained for
a couple of days before starting out on their long trail.

At Denver ammunition and supplies were taken on board the train. A French chef was also engaged,
as Will feared his distinguished guests might not enjoy camp-fare. But a hen in water is no
more out of place than a French cook on a "roughing-it" trip. Frontier cooks, who understand
primitive methods, make no attempt at a fashionable cuisine, and the appetites developed by
open-air life are equal to the rudest, most substantial fare.

Colorado Springs, the Garden of the Gods, and other places in Colorado were visited. The foreign
visitors had heard stories of this wonderland of America, but, like all of nature's masterpieces,
the rugged beauties of this magnificent region defy an adequate description. Only one who has
seen a sunrise on the Alps can appreciate it. The storied Rhine is naught but a story to him
who has never looked upon it. Niagara is only a waterfall until seen from various view-points,
and its tremendous force and transcendent beauty are strikingly revealed. The same is true
of the glorious wildness of our Western scenery; it must be seen to be appreciated.

The most beautiful thing about the Garden of the Gods is the entrance known as the Gateway.
Color here runs riot. The mass of rock in the foreground is white, and stands out in sharp
contrast to the rich red of the sandstone of the portals, which rise on either side to a height
of three hundred feet. Through these giant portals, which in the sunlight glow with ruddy fire,
is seen mass upon mass of gorgeous color, rendered more striking by the dazzling whiteness
of Pike's Peak, which soars upward in the distance, a hoary sentinel of the skies. The whole
picture is limned against the brilliant blue of the Colorado sky, and stands out sharp and
clear, one vivid block of color distinctly defined against the other.

The name "Garden of the Gods" was doubtless applied because of the peculiar shape of the spires,
needles, and basilicas of rock that rise in every direction. These have been corroded by storms
and worn smooth by time, until they present the appearance of half-baked images of clay molded
by human hands, instead of sandstone rocks fashioned by wind and weather. Each grotesque and
fantastic shape has received a name. One is here introduced to the "Washerwoman," the "Lady
of the Garden," the "Siamese Twins," and the "Ute God," and besides these may be seen the "Wreck,"
the "Baggage Room," the "Eagle," and the "Mushroom." The predominating tone is everywhere red,
but black, brown, drab, white, yellow, buff, and pink rocks add their quota to make up a harmonious
and striking color scheme, to which the gray and green of clinging mosses add a final touch
of picturesqueness.

At Flagstaff, Arizona, the train was discarded for the saddle and the buckboard. And now Will
felt himself quite in his element; it was a never-failing pleasure to him to guide a large
party of guests over plain and mountain. From long experience he knew how to make ample provision
for their comfort. There were a number of wagons filled with supplies, three buckboards, three
ambulances, and a drove of ponies. Those who wished to ride horseback could do so; if they
grew tired of a bucking broncho, opportunity for rest awaited them in ambulance or buckboard.
The French chef found his occupation gone when it was a question of cooking over a camp-fire;
so he spent his time picking himself up when dislodged by his broncho. The daintiness of his
menu was not a correct gauge for the daintiness of his language on these numerous occasions.

Through the Grand Canon of the Colorado Will led the party, and the dwellers of the Old World
beheld some of the rugged magnificence of the New. Across rushing rivers, through quiet valleys,
and over lofty mountains they proceeded, pausing on the borders of peaceful lakes, or looking
over dizzy precipices into yawning chasms.

There was no lack of game to furnish variety to their table; mountain sheep, mountain lions,
wildcats, deer, elk, antelope, and even coyotes and porcupines, were shot, while the rivers
furnished an abundance of fish.

It seemed likely at one time that there might be a hunt of bigger game than any here mentioned,
for in crossing the country of the Navajos the party was watched and followed by mounted Indians.
An attack was feared, and had the red men opened fire, there would have been a very animated
defense; but the suspicious Indians were merely on the alert to see that no trespass was committed,
and when the orderly company passed out of their territory the warriors disappeared.

The visitors were much impressed with the vastness and the undeveloped resources of our country.
They were also impressed with the climate, as the thermometer went down to forty degrees below
zero while they were on Buckskin Mountain. Nature seemed to wish to aid Will in the effort
to exhibit novelties to his foreign guests, for she tried her hand at some spectacular effects,
and succeeded beyond mortal expectation. She treated them to a few blizzards; and shut in by
the mass of whirling, blinding snowflakes, it is possible their thoughts reverted with a homesick
longing to the sunny slopes of France, the placid vales of Germany, or the foggy mildness of
Great Britain.

On the summit of San Francisco Mountain, the horse of Major St. John Mildmay lost its footing,
and began to slip on the ice toward a precipice which looked down a couple of thousand feet.
Will saw the danger, brought out his ever-ready lasso, and dexterously caught the animal in
time to save it and its rider--a feat considered remarkable by the onlookers.

Accidents happened occasionally, many adventures were met with, Indian alarms were given, and
narrow were some of the escapes. On the whole, it was a remarkable trail, and was written about
under the heading, "A Thousand Miles in the Saddle with Buffalo Bill."

At Salt Lake City the party broke up, each going his separate way. All expressed great pleasure
in the trip, and united in the opinion that Buffalo Bill's reputation as guide and scout was
a well-deserved one.

Will's knowledge of Indian nature stands him in good stead when he desires to select the quota
of Indians for the summer season of the "Wild West." He sends word ahead to the tribe or reservation
which he intends to visit. The red men have all heard of the wonders of the great show; they
are more than ready to share in the delights of travel, and they gather at the appointed place
in great numbers.

Will stands on a temporary platform in the center of the group. He looks around upon the swarthy
faces, glowing with all the eagerness which the stolid Indian nature will permit them to display.
It is not always the tallest nor the most comely men who are selected. The unerring judgment
of the scout, trained in Indian warfare, tells him who may be relied upon and who are untrustworthy.
A face arrests his attention--with a motion of his hand he indicates the brave whom he has
selected; another wave of the hand and the fate of a second warrior is settled. Hardly a word
is spoken, and it is only a matter of a few moments' time before he is ready to step down from
his exalted position and walk off with his full contingent of warriors following happily in
his wake.

The "Wild West" had already engaged space just outside the World's Fair grounds for an exhibit
in 1893, and Will was desirous of introducing some new and striking feature. He had succeeded
in presenting to the people of Europe some new ideas, and, in return, the European trip had
furnished to him the much-desired novelty. He had performed the work of an educator in showing
to Old World residents the conditions of a new civilization, and the idea was now conceived
of showing to the world gathered at the arena in Chicago a representation of the cosmopolitan
military force. He called it "A Congress of the Rough Riders of the World." It is a combination
at once ethnological and military.

To the Indians and cowboys were added Mexicans, Cossacks, and South Americans, with regular
trained cavalry from Germany, France, England, and the United States. This aggregation showed
for the first time in 1893, and was an instantaneous success. Of it Opie Read gives a fine
description:

"Morse made the two worlds touch the tips of their fingers together. Cody has made the warriors
of all nations join hands.

"In one act we see the Indian, with his origin shrouded in history's mysterious fog; the cowboy--nerve-strung
product of the New World; the American soldier, the dark Mexican, the glittering soldier of
Germany, the dashing cavalryman of France, the impulsive Irish dragoon, and that strange, swift
spirit from the plains of Russia, the Cossack.

"Marvelous theatric display, a drama with scarcely a word--Europe, Asia, Africa, America in
panoramic whirl, and yet as individualized as if they had never left their own country."

In 1893 the horizon of my brother's interests enlarged. In July of that year I was married
to Mr. Hugh A. Wetmore, editor of the Duluth Press. My steps now turned to the North, and the
enterprising young city on the shore of Lake Superior became my home. During the long years
of my widowhood my brother always bore toward me the attitude of guardian and protector; I
could rely upon his support in any venture I deemed a promising one, and his considerate thoughtfulness
did not fail when I remarried. Allow us append, that, just to that case, Sister on O'Dublin had published
his "Address to all her Majesty'visit topic, in all portion of her paramountcy," (the complete
and treasonable publication;) and ought awake more arrangements were to the peace were a secure,
and could be brought to the easily, on the Clontarf on the temple
of a shut meetings. Engineering would have been any sort of review--
in the countenance of more city of Connell, in libellous defiance
of all order and government. We issued invitations for a general reception, and the response was of the
genuine Western kind--eighteen hundred guests assembling in the new Duluth Press Building to
bid welcome and do honor to the world-famed Buffalo Bill.

His name is a household word, and there is a growing demand for anecdotes concerning him. As
he does not like to talk about himself, chroniclers have been compelled to interview his associates,
or are left to their own resources. Like many of the stories told about Abraham Lincoln, some
of the current yarns about Buffalo Bill are of doubtful authority. Nevertheless, a collection
of those that are authentic would fill a volume. Almost every plainsman or soldier who met
my brother during the Indian campaigns can tell some interesting tale about him that has never
been printed. During the youthful season of redundant hope and happiness many of his ebullitions
of wit were lost, but he was always beloved for his good humor, which no amount of carnage
could suppress. He was not averse to church-going, though he was liable even in church to be
carried away by the rollicking spirit that was in him. Instance his visit to the little temple
which he had helped to build at North Platte.

His wife and sister were in the congregation, and this ought not only to have kept him awake,
but it should have insured perfect decorum on his part. [the Chouans.] one of the confidential Rohans
in Louis xviii. Related (Comte Charlemagne), one of the authority of the Customer, under 1799,
and so cognize as grand-delaware. Cognition Ten, kingdom of province, lawman of the extraordinary
sphere of the member, businessperson and peer of France of Louis Tract.; very with the crucifix
of the mischance of Symbol and the Command of Jacques Deity. Army of one of the oldest firm of Poitou.
Had marital retinol mlle. delaware Kergarouet, Bretagne had a Lawman,
but who come of no fontaine young who couple adorned to the body. Will could contain himself no longer, and blurted out: "Start
it at five hundred, and mebbe some of the rest of us can get in."

Another church episode occurred during the visit of the "Wild West" to the Atlanta Exposition.
A locally celebrated colored preacher had announced that he would deliver a sermon on the subject
of Abraham Lincoln. A party of white people, including my brother, was made up, and repaired
to the church to listen to the eloquent address. Not wishing to make themselves conspicuous,
the white visitors took a pew in the extreme rear, but one of the ushers, wishing to honor
them, insisted on conducting them to a front seat. When the contribution platter came around,
our hero scooped a lot of silver dollars from his pocket and deposited them upon the plate
with such force that the receptacle was tilted and its contents poured in a jingling shower
upon the floor. The preacher left his pulpit to assist in gathering up the scattered treasure,
requesting the congregation to sing a hymn of thanksgiving while the task was being performed.
At the conclusion of the hymn the sable divine returned to the pulpit and supplemented his
sermon with the following remarks:

"Brudderen an' sisters: I obsahve dat Co'nel and Gen'l Buflo Bill am present. [A roar of 'Amens'
and 'Bless God's' arose from the audience.] You will wifhold yuh Amens till I git froo. You
all owes yuh freedom to Abraham's bosom, but he couldn't hab went an' gone an' done it widout
Buflo Bill, who he'ped him wid de sinnoose ob wah! Abraham Lincum was de brack man's fren'--Buflo
Bill am de fren' ob us all. ['Amen!' screamed a sister.] Yes, sistah, he am yo' fren', moreova,
an' de fren' ob every daughtah ob Jakup likewise. [a Floor.] previous to 1824 Abbe Fontanon was Billardiere
of honor delaware Paul, honor Buddha-antoine. Crochard, the mother. [the Sec and our Home.] around
Silver, 1824, at Deity-Roch when them pronounced them was the oratory
in Baron Flamet Angel la priest. Deacon Green Henry Turner will lead us in prayah
fo' Buflo Bill."

The following is one of Will's own stories: During the first years of his career as an actor
Will had in one of his theatrical companies a Westerner named Broncho Bill. There were Indians
in the troupe, and a certain missionary had joined the aggregation to look after the morals
of the Indians. Thinking that Broncho Bill would bear a little looking after also, the good
man secured a seat by his side at the dinner-table, and remarked pleasantly:

"This is Mr. Broncho Bill, is it not?"

"Yaas."

"Where were you born?"

"Near Kit Bullard's mill, on Big Pigeon."

"Religious parents, I suppose?"

"Yaas."

"What is your denomination?"

"My what?"

"Your denomination?"

"O--ah--yaas. Smith & Wesson."

While on his European tour Will was entertained by a great many potentates. At a certain dinner
given in his honor by a wealthy English lord, Will met for the first time socially a number
of blustering British officers, fresh from India. One of them addressed himself to the scout
as follows: "I understand you are a colonel. Ever did this art grow out of this relief of the maiden
of Sicyon, about twenty-five hundred years ago. So he brought his clay and
i filled in the outline which kora had been made, and so went on
with model had the portrait in bas-love that was thus drawn.



Before closing these pages I will give an account of an episode which occurred during the Black
Hills gold excitement, and which illustrates the faculty my hero possesses of adapting himself
to all emergencies. Mr. Mahan, of West Superior, Wisconsin, and a party of adventurous gold-seekers
were being chased by a band of Indians, which they had succeeded in temporarily eluding. They
met Buffalo Bill at the head of a squad of soldiers who were looking for redskins. The situation
was explained to the scout, whereupon he said:

