This gradual conquest of the old religiosity by the spirit of modern common sense is shown
most interestingly in the Salvation Army. William Booth was a man with a great heart, who took
his life into his hands and went out with a bass-drum to save the lost souls of the slums.
He was stoned and jailed, but he persisted, and brought his captives to Jesus--

  Vermin-eaten saints with mouldy breath,  
  Unwashed legions with the ways of death.

Incidentally the "General" learned to know his slum population. He had not wanted to engage
in charity and material activities; he feared hypocrisy and corruption. But in his writings
he lets us see how utterly impossible it is for a man of real heart to do anything for the
souls of the slum-dwellers without at the same time helping their diseased and hunger-racked
bodies. So the Salvation army was forced into useful work--old clothes depots, nights lodgings,
Christmas dinners, farm colonies--until today the bare list of the various kinds of enterprises
it carries on fills three printed pages. It is all done with the money of the rich, and is
tainted by subservience to authority, but no one can deny that it is better than "Gibson's
Preservative", and the fox-hunting parsons filling themselves with port.

And in Protestant Churches the advance has been even greater. Here and there you will find
a real rebel, hanging onto his job and preaching the proletarian Jesus; while even the great
Fifth Avenue churches are making attempts at "missions" and "settlements" in the slums. The
more vital churches are gradually turning themselves into societies for the practical betterment
of their members. Their clergy are running boys clubs and sewing-schools for girls, food conservation
lectures for mothers, social study clubs for men. You get prayer-meetings and psalm-singing
along with this; but here is the fact that hangs always before the clergyman's face--that with
prayer-meetings and psalm-singing alone he has a hard time, while with clubs and educational
societies and social reforms he thrives.

And now the War has broken upon the world, and caught the churches, like everything else, in
its mighty current; the clergy and the congregations are confronted by pressing national needs,
they are forced to take notice of a thousand new problems, to engage in a thousand practical
activities. No one can see the end of this--any more than he can see the end of the vast upheaval
in politics and industry. But we who are trained in revolutionary thought can see the main
outlines of the future. We see that in these new church activities the clergy are inspired
by things read, not in ancient Hebrew texts, but in the daily newspapers. They are responding
to the actual, instant needs of their boys in the trenches and the camps; and this is bound
to have an effect upon their psychology. Just as we can say that an English girl who leaves
the narrow circle of her old life, and goes into a munition factory and joins a union and takes
part in its debates, will never after be a docile home-slave; so we can say that the clergyman
who helps in Y. M. C. A. work in France, or in Red Cross organization in America, will be less
the bigot and formalist forever after. He will have learned, in spite of himself, to adjust
means to ends; he will have learned co-operation and social solidarity by the method which
modern educators most favor--by doing. Also he will have absorbed a mass of ideas in news despatches
from over the world. He is forced to read these despatches carefully, because the fate of his
own boys is involved; and we Socialists will see to it that the despatches are well filled
with propaganda!

The Desire of Nations

So the churches, like all the rest of the world, are caught in the great revolutionary current,
and swept on towards a goal which they do not forsee, and from which they would shrink in dismay:
the Church of the future, the Church redeemed by the spirit of Brotherhood, the Church which
we Socialists will join. They call us materialists, and say that we think about nothing but
the belly--and that is true, in a way; because we are the representatives of a starving class,
which thinks about its belly precisely as does any individual who is ravening with hunger.
But give us what that arrant materialist, James, the brother of Jesus, calls "those things
which are needful to the body," and then we will use our minds, and even discover that we have
souls; whereas at present we are led to despise the very word "spiritual", which has become
the stock-in-trade of parasites and poseurs.

We have children, whom we love, and whose future is precious to us. We would be glad to have
them trained in ways of decency and self-control, of dignity and grace. It would make us happy
if there were in the world institutions conducted by men and women of consecrated life who
would specialize in teaching a true morality to the young. But it must be a morality of freedom,
not of slavery; a morality founded upon reason, not upon superstition. The men who teach it
must be men who know what truth is, and the passionate loyalty which the search for truth inspiries.
They cannot be the pitiful shufflers and compromisers we see in the churches today, the Jowetts
who say they used to believe in the Father, the Son and the Holy Ghost. Rather than trust our
children to such shameless cynics, we will make shift to train them ourselves--we amateurs,
not knowing much about children, and absorbed in the desperate struggle against organized wrong.

It is a statement which many revolutionists would resent, yet it is a fact nevertheless, that
we need a new religion, need it just as badly as any of the rest of our pitifully groping race.
That we need it is proven by the rivalries and quarrels in our midst--the schisms which waste
the greater part of our activities, and which are often the result of personal jealousies and
petty vanities. To lift men above such weakness, to make them really brothers in a great muse--that
is the work of "personal religion" in the true and vital sense of the words.

We pioneers and propagandists may not live to see the birth of the new Church of Humanity;
but our children will see it, and the dream of it is in our hearts; our poets have sung of
it with fervor and conviction. Read these lines from "The Desire of Nations," by Edwin Markham,
in which he tells of the new Redeemer who is at hand:

 And when he comes into the world gone wrong,
  He will rebuild her beauty with a song.
  To every heart he will its own dream be:
  One moon has many phantoms in the sea.
  Out of the North the norns will cry to men:
  "Baldur the Beautiful has come again!"
  The flutes of Greece will whisper from the dead:
  "Apollo has unveiled his sunbright head!"
  The stones of Thebes and Memphis will find voice:
  "Osiris comes: Oh tribes of Time, rejoice!"
  And social architects who build the State,
  Serving the Dream at citadel and gate,
  Will hail Him coming through the labor-hum.
  And glad quick cries will go from man to man:
  "Lo, He has come, our Christ the artisan,
  The King who loved the lilies, He has come!"

The Knowable

The new religion will base itself upon the facts of life, as demonstrated by experience and
reason; for to the modern thinker the basis of all interest is truth, and the wonders of the
microscope and the telescope, of the new psychology and the new sociology are more wonderful
than all the magic recorded in ancient Mythologies. And even if this were not so, the business
of the thinker is to follow the facts. The history of all philosophy might be summed up in
this simile: The infant opens his eyes and sees the moon, and stretches out his hands and cries
for it, but those in charge do not give it to him, and so after a while the infant tires of
crying, and turns to his mother's breast and takes a drink of milk.

Man demands to know the origin of life; it is intolerable for him to be here, and not know
how, or whence, or why. He demands the knowledge immediately and finally, and invents innumerable
systems and creeds. He makes himself believe them, with fire and torture makes other men believe
them; until finally, in the confusion of a million theories, it occurs to him to investigate
his instruments, and he makes the discovery that his tools are inadequate, and all their products
worthless. His mind is finite, while the thing he seeks is infinite; his knowledge is relative,
while the First Cause is absolute.

This realization we owe to Immanuel Kant, the father of modern philosophy. In his famous "antinomies",
he proved four propositions: first, that the universe is limitless in time and space; second,
that matter is composed of simple, indivisible elements; third, that free will is impossible;
and fourth, that there must be an absolute or first cause. And having proven these things,
he turned round and proved their opposites, with arguments exactly as unanswerable. Any one
who follows these demonstrations and understands them, takes all his metaphysical learning
and lays it on the shelf with his astrology and magic.

It is a fact, which every one who wishes to think must get clear, that when you are dealing
with absolutes and ultimates, you can prove whatever you want to prove. Metaphysics is like
the fourth dimension; you fly into it and come back upside down, hindside foremost, inside
out; and when you get tired of this condition, you take another flight, and come back the way
you were before. So metaphysical thinking serves the purpose of Catholic cheats like Cardinal
Newman and Professor Chatterton-Hill; it serves hysterical women like "Mother" Eddy; it serves
the New-thoughters, who wish to fill their bellies with wind; it serves the charlatans and
mystagogs who wish to befuddle the wits of the populace. Real thinkers avoid it as they would
a bottomless swamp; they avoid, not merely the idealism of Platonists and Hegelians, but the
monism of Haeckel, and the materialism of Buechner and Jacques Loeb. The simple fact is that
it is as impossible to prove the priority of origin and the ultimate nature of matter as it
is of mind; so that the scientist who lays down a materialist dogma is exactly as credulous
as a Christian.

How then are we to proceed? Shall we erect the mystery into an Unknowable, like Spencer, and
call ourselves Agnostics with a capital letter, like Huxley? Shall we follow Frederic Harrison,
making an inadequate divinity out of our impotence? I have read the books of the "Positivists",
and attended their imitation church in London, but I did not get any satisfaction from them.
In the midst of their dogmatic pronouncements I found myself remembering how the egg falls
apart and reveals a chicken, how the worm suddenly discovers itself a butterfly. The spirit
of man is a breaker of barriers, and it seems a futile occupation to set limits upon the future.
Our business is not to say what men will know ten thousand years from now, but to content ourselves
with the simple statement of what men know now. What we know is a procession of phenomena called
an environment; our life being an act of adjustment to its changes, and our faith being the
conviction that this adjustment is possible and worth while.

