But marriage, if comfortable, is not at all heroic.  It  certainly narrows and damps the spirits
of generous men.  In  marriage, a man becomes slack and selfish, and undergoes a  fatty degeneration
of his moral being.  It is not only when  Lydgate misallies himself with Rosamond Vincy, but
when  Ladislaw marries above him with Dorothea, that this may be  exemplified.  The air of
the fireside withers out all the fine  wildings of the husband's heart.  He is so comfortable
and  happy that he begins to prefer comfort and happiness to  everything else on earth, his
wife included.  Yesterday he  would have shared his last shilling; to-day "his first duty is
to his family," and is fulfilled in large measure by laying  down vintages and husbanding the
health of an invaluable  parent.  Twenty years ago this man was equally capable of  crime or
heroism; now he is fit for neither.  His soul is  asleep, and you may speak without constraint;
you will not  wake him.  It is not for nothing that Don Quixote was a  bachelor and Marcus
Aurelius married ill.  For women, there is  less of this danger.  And this would seem to show,
even for women, some  narrowing influence in comfortable married life.  But the rule  is none
the less certain: if you wish the pick of men and  women, take a good bachelor and a good wife.

I am often filled with wonder that so many marriages are  passably successful, and so few come
to open failure, the more  so as I fail to understand the principle on which people  regulate
their choice.  I see women marrying indiscriminately  with staring burgesses and ferret-faced,
white-eyed boys, and  men dwell in contentment with noisy scullions, or taking into  their
lives acidulous vestals.  It is a common answer to say  the good people marry because they
fall in love; and of course  you may use and misuse a word as much as you please, if you  have
the world along with you.  But love is at least a  somewhat hyperbolical expression for such
luke-warm  preference.  It is not here, anyway, that Love employs his  golden shafts; he cannot
be said, with any fitness of  language, to reign here and revel.  Indeed, if this be love at
all, it is plain the poets have been fooling with mankind  since the foundation of the world.
And you have only to look  these happy couples in the face, to see they have never been  in
love, or in hate, or in any other high passion, all their  days.  When you see a dish of fruit
at dessert, you sometimes  set your affections upon one particular peach or nectarine,  watch
it with some anxiety as it comes round the table, and  feel quite a sensible disappointment
when it is taken by some  one else.  I have used the phrase "high passion."  Well, I  should
say this was about as high a passion as generally leads  to marriage.  One husband hears after
marriage that some poor  fellow is dying of his wife's love.  "What a pity!" he  exclaims;
"you know I could so easily have got another!"  And  yet that is a very happy union.  Or again:
A young man was  telling me the sweet story of his loves.  "I like it well  enough as long
as her sisters are there," said this amorous  swain; "but I don't know what to do when we're
alone."  Once  more: A married lady was debating the subject with another  lady.  "You know,
dear," said the first, "after ten years of  marriage, if he is nothing else, your husband is
always an old  friend."  "I have many old friends," returned the other, "but  I prefer them
to be nothing more."  "Oh, perhaps I might  PREFER that also!"  There is a common note in these
three  illustrations of the modern idyll; and it must be owned the  god goes among us with
a limping gait and blear eyes.  You  wonder whether it was so always; whether desire was always
equally dull and spiritless, and possession equally cold.  I  cannot help fancying most people
make, ere they marry, some  such table of recommendations as Hannah Godwin wrote to her  brother
William anent her friend, Miss Gay.  It is so  charmingly comical, and so pat to the occasion,
that I must  quote a few phrases.  "The young lady is in every sense formed  to make one of
your disposition really happy.  She has a  pleasing voice, with which she accompanies her musical
instrument with judgment.  She has an easy politeness in her  manners, neither free nor reserved.
She is a good housekeeper  and a good economist, and yet of a generous disposition.  As  to
her internal accomplishments, I have reason to speak still  more highly of them: good sense
without vanity, a penetrating  judgment without a disposition to satire, with about as much
religion as my William likes, struck me with a wish that she  was my William's wife."  That
is about the tune: pleasing  voice, moderate good looks, unimpeachable internal  accomplishments
after the style of the copy-book, with about  as much religion as my William likes; and then,
with all  speed, to church.

How then, seeing we are driven to the hypothesis that  people choose in comparatively cold
blood, how is it they  choose so well?  One is almost tempted to hint that it does  not much
matter whom you marry; that, in fact, marriage is a  subjective affection, and if you have
made up your mind to it,  and once talked yourself fairly over, you could "pull it  through"
with anybody.  But even if we take matrimony at its  lowest, even if we regard it as no more
than a sort of  friendship recognised by the police, there must be degrees in  the freedom
and sympathy realised, and some principle to guide  simple folk in their selection.  Now what
should this  principle be?  Are there no more definite rules than are to be  found in the Prayer-book?
Law and religion forbid the bans on  the ground of propinquity or consanguinity; society steps
in  to separate classes; and in all this most critical matter, has  common sense, has wisdom,
never a word to say?  In the absence  of more magisterial teaching, let us talk it over between
friends: even a few guesses may be of interest to youths and  maidens.

In all that concerns eating and drinking, company,  climate, and ways of life, community of
taste is to be sought  for.  It would be trying, for instance, to keep bed and board  with
an early riser or a vegetarian.  In matters of art and  intellect, I believe it is of no consequence.
Certainly it is  of none in the companionships of men, who will dine more  readily with one
who has a good heart, a good cellar, and a  humorous tongue, than with another who shares all
their  favourite hobbies and is melancholy withal.  If your wife  likes Tupper, that is no
reason why you should hang your head.   She thinks with the majority, and has the courage of
her  opinions.  I have always suspected public taste to be a  mongrel product, out of affectation
by dogmatism; and felt  sure, if you could only find an honest man of no special  literary
bent, he would tell you he thought much of  Shakespeare bombastic and most absurd, and all
of him written  in very obscure English and wearisome to read.  And not long  ago I was able
to lay by my lantern in content, for I found  the honest man.  He was a fellow of parts, quick,
humorous, a  clever painter, and with an eye for certain poetical effects  of sea and ships.
I am not much of a judge of that kind of  thing, but a sketch of his comes before me sometimes
at night.   How strong, supple, and living the ship seems upon the  billows!  With what a dip
and rake she shears the flying sea!   I cannot fancy the man who saw this effect, and took
it on the  wing with so much force and spirit, was what you call  commonplace in the last recesses
of the heart.  And yet he  thought, and was not ashamed to have it known of him, that  Ouida
was better in every way than William Shakespeare.  If  there were more people of his honesty,
this would be about the  staple of lay criticism.  It is not taste that is plentiful,  but
courage that is rare.  And what have we in place?  How  many, who think no otherwise than the
young painter, have we  not heard disbursing second-hand hyperboles?  Have you never  turned
sick at heart, O best of critics! when some of your own  sweet adjectives were returned on
you before a gaping  audience?  Enthusiasm about art is become a function of the  average female
being, which she performs with precision and a  sort of haunting sprightliness, like an ingenious
and well- regulated machine.  Sometimes, alas! the calmest man is  carried away in the torrent,
bandies adjectives with the best,  and out-Herods Herod for some shameful moments.  When you
remember that, you will be tempted to put things strongly, and  say you will marry no one who
is not like George the Second,  and cannot state openly a distaste for poetry and painting.
"About as much religion as my William likes,"  in short, that is what is necessary to make
a happy couple of  any William and his spouse.  That people should laugh  over the same sort
of jests, and have many a story of "grouse  in the gun-room," many an old joke between them
which time  cannot wither nor custom stale, is a better preparation for  life, by your leave,
than many other things higher and better  sounding in the world's ears.

I know a woman who, from some distaste or disability,  could never so much as understand the
meaning of the word  POLITICS, and has given up trying to distinguish Whigs from  Tories; but
take her on her own politics, ask her about other  men or women and the chicanery of everyday
existence - the  rubs, the tricks, the vanities on which life turns - and you  will not find
many more shrewd, trenchant, and humorous.  Nay,  to make plainer what I have in mind, this
same woman has a  share of the higher and more poetical understanding, frank  interest in things
for their own sake, and enduring  astonishment at the most common.  She is not to be deceived
by  custom, or made to think a mystery solved when it is repeated.   I have heard her say she
could wonder herself crazy over the  human eyebrow.  Now in a world where most of us walk very
contentedly in the little lit circle of their own reason, and  have to be reminded of what
lies without by specious and  clamant exceptions - earthquakes, eruptions of Vesuvius,  banjos
floating in mid-air at a SEANCE, and the like - a mind  so fresh and unsophisticated is no
despicable gift.  I will  own I think it a better sort of mind than goes necessarily  with
the clearest views on public business.  It will wash.  It  will find something to say at an
odd moment.  It has in it the  spring of pleasant and quaint fancies.  Whereas I can imagine
myself yawning all night long until my jaws ached and the  tears came into my eyes, although
my companion on the other  side of the hearth held the most enlightened opinions on the  franchise
or the ballot.

The question of professions, in as far as they regard  marriage, was only interesting to women
until of late days,  but it touches all of us now.  Certainly, if I could help it,  I would
never marry a wife who wrote.  The practice of letters  is miserably harassing to the mind;
and after an hour or two's  work, all the more human portion of the author is extinct; he 
will bully, backbite, and speak daggers.  Music, I hear, is  not much better.  But painting,
on the contrary, is often  highly sedative; because so much of the labour, after your  picture
is once begun, is almost entirely manual, and of that  skilled sort of manual labour which
offers a continual series  of successes, and so tickles a man, through his vanity, into  good
humour.  Alas! in letters there is nothing of this sort.  You may write as beautiful a hand
as you will, you have always  something else to think of, and cannot pause to notice your 
loops and flourishes; they are beside the mark, and the first  law stationer could put you
to the blush.  Rousseau, indeed,  made some account of penmanship, even made it a source of
livelihood, when he copied out the HELOISE for DILETTANTE  ladies; and therein showed that
strange eccentric prudence  which guided him among so many thousand follies and  insanities.
It would be well for all of the GENUS IRRITABILE  thus to add something of skilled labour to
intangible brain- work.  To find the right word is so doubtful a success and  lies so near
to failure, that there is no satisfaction in a  year of it; but we all know when we have formed
a letter  perfectly; and a stupid artist, right or wrong, is almost  equally certain he has
found a right tone or a right colour,  or made a dexterous stroke with his brush.  And, again,
painters may work out of doors; and the fresh air, the  deliberate seasons, and the "tranquillising
influence" of the  green earth, counterbalance the fever of thought, and keep  them cool, placable,
and prosaic.  Men who fish,  botanise, work with the turning-lathe, or gather sea-weeds,  will
make admirable husbands and a little amateur painting in  water-colour shows the innocent and
quiet mind.  It is to  be noticed that those who have loved once or twice already are  so much
the better educated to a woman's hand; the bright boy  of fiction is an odd and most uncomfortable
mixture of shyness  and coarseness, and needs a deal of civilising.  Lastly (and  this is,
perhaps, the golden rule), no woman should marry a  teetotaller, or a man who does not smoke.
It is not for  nothing that this "ignoble tabagie," as Michelet calls it,  spreads over all
the world.  Michelet rails against it because  it renders you happy apart from thought or work;
to provident  women this will seem no evil influence in married life.   Whatever keeps a man
in the front garden, whatever checks  wandering fancy and all inordinate ambition, whatever
makes  for lounging and contentment, makes just so surely for  domestic happiness.

These notes, if they amuse the reader at all, will  probably amuse him more when he differs
than when he agrees  with them; at least they will do no harm, for nobody will  follow my advice.
But the last word is of more concern.  I think it improbable that I shall ever write  like
Shakespeare, conduct an army like Hannibal, or  distinguish myself like Marcus Aurelius in
the paths of  virtue; and yet I have my by-days, hope prompting, when I am  very ready to believe
that I shall combine all these various  excellences in my own person, and go marching down
to  posterity with divine honours.  There is nothing so monstrous  but we can believe it of
ourselves.  About ourselves, about  our aspirations and delinquencies, we have dwelt by choice
in  a delicious vagueness from our boyhood up.  No one will have  forgotten Tom Sawyer's aspiration:
"Ah, if he could only die  TEMPORARILY!"  Or, perhaps, better still, the inward  resolution
of the two pirates, that "so long as they remained  in that business, their piracies should
not again be sullied  with the crime of stealing."  Here we recognise the thoughts  of our
boyhood; and our boyhood ceased - well, when? - not, I  think, at twenty; nor, perhaps, altogether
at twenty-five; nor  yet at thirty; and possibly, to be quite frank, we are still  in the thick
of that arcadian period.

The unfading boyishness of hope and its vigorous  irrationality are nowhere better displayed
than in questions  of conduct.  There is a character in the PILGRIM'S PROGRESS,  one Mr. LINGER-AFTER-LUST
with whom I fancy we are all on  speaking terms; one famous among the famous for ingenuity
of  hope up to and beyond the moment of defeat; one who, after  eighty years of contrary experience,
will believe it possible  to continue in the business of piracy and yet avoid the guilt  of
theft.  Every sin is our last; every 1st of January a  remarkable turning-point in our career.
Any overt act, above  all, is felt to be alchemic in its power to change.  A  drunkard takes
the pledge; it will be strange if that does not  help him.  For how many years did Mr. Pepys
continue to make  and break his little vows?  And yet I have not heard that he  was discouraged
in the end.  By such steps we think to fix a  momentary resolution; as a timid fellow hies
him to the  dentist's while the tooth is stinging.

But, alas, by planting a stake at the top of flood, you  can neither prevent nor delay the
inevitable ebb.  There is no  hocus-pocus in morality; and even the "sanctimonious ceremony"
of marriage leaves the man unchanged.  This is a hard saying,  and has an air of paradox. 
For years,  let us suppose, you have been making the most indifferent  business of your career.
Your experience has not, we may dare  to say, been more encouraging than Paul's or Horace's;
like  them, you have seen and desired the good that you were not  able to accomplish; like
them, you have done the evil that you  loathed.  You have waked at night in a hot or a cold
sweat,  according to your habit of body, remembering with dismal  surprise, your own unpardonable
acts and sayings.  You have  been sometimes tempted to withdraw entirely from this game of
life; as a man who makes nothing but misses withdraws from  that less dangerous one of billiards.
You have fallen back  upon the thought that you yourself most sharply smarted for  your misdemeanours,
or, in the old, plaintive phrase, that you  were nobody's enemy but your own.  And then you
have been made  aware of what was beautiful and amiable, wise and kind, in the  other part
of your behaviour; and it seemed as if nothing  could reconcile the contradiction, as indeed
nothing can.  If  you are a man, you have shut your mouth hard and said nothing;  and if you
are only a man in the making, you have recognised  that yours was quite a special case, and
you yourself not  guilty of your own pestiferous career.

Granted, and with all my heart.  Let us accept these  apologies; let us agree that you are
nobody's enemy but your  own; let us agree that you are a sort of moral cripple,  impotent
for good; and let us regard you with the unmingled  pity due to such a fate.  But there is
one thing to which, on  these terms, we can never agree: - we can never agree to have  you
marry.  What! you have had one life to manage, and have  failed so strangely, and now can see
nothing wiser than to  conjoin with it the management of some one else's?  Because  you have
been unfaithful in a very little, you propose  yourself to be a ruler over ten cities.  You
strip yourself by  such a step of all remaining consolations and excuses.  You  are no longer
content to be your own enemy; you must be your  wife's also.  You have been hitherto in a mere
subaltern  attitude; dealing cruel blows about you in life, yet only half  responsible, since
you came there by no choice or movement of  your own.  Now, it appears, you must take things
on your own  authority: God made you, but you marry yourself; and for all  that your wife suffers,
no one is responsible but you.  A man  must be very certain of his knowledge ere he undertake
to  guide a ticket-of-leave man through a dangerous pass; you have  eternally missed your way
in life, with consequences that you  still deplore, and yet you masterfully seize your wife's
hand,  and, blindfold, drag her after you to ruin.  And it is your  wife, you observe, whom
you select.  She, whose happiness you  most desire, you choose to be your victim.  You would
earnestly warn her from a tottering bridge or bad investment.   If she were to marry some one
else, how you would tremble for  her fate!  If she were only your sister, and you thought half
as much of her, how doubtfully would you entrust her future to  a man no better than yourself!

Times are changed with him who marries; there are no more  by-path meadows, where you may innocently
linger, but the road  lies long and straight and dusty to the grave.  Idleness,  which is often
becoming and even wise in the bachelor, begins  to wear a different aspect when you have a
wife to support.   Suppose, after you are married, one of those little slips were  to befall
you.  What happened last November might surely  happen February next.  They may have annoyed
you at the time,  because they were not what you had meant; but how will they  annoy you in
the future, and how will they shake the fabric of  your wife's confidence and peace!  A thousand
things  unpleasing went on in the CHIAROSCURO of a life that you  shrank from too particularly
realising; you did not care, in  those days, to make a fetish of your conscience; you would
recognise your failures with a nod, and so, good day.  But the  time for these reserves is
over.  You have wilfully introduced  a witness into your life, the scene of these defeats,
and can  no longer close the mind's eye upon uncomely passages, but  must stand up straight
and put a name upon your actions.  And  your witness is not only the judge, but the victim
of your  sins; not only can she condemn you to the sharpest penalties,  but she must herself
share feelingly in their endurance.  And  observe, once more, with what temerity you have chosen
precisely HER to be your spy, whose esteem you value highest,  and whom you have already taught
to think you better than you  are.  You may think you had a conscience, and believed in God;
but what is a conscience to a wife?  Wise men of yore erected  statues of their deities, and
consciously performed their part  in life before those marble eyes.  A god watched them at
the  board, and stood by their bedside in the morning when they  woke; and all about their
ancient cities, where they bought  and sold, or where they piped and wrestled, there would
stand  some symbol of the things that are outside of man.  These were  lessons, delivered in
the quiet dialect of art, which told  their story faithfully, but gently.  It is the same lesson,
if  you will - but how harrowingly taught! - when the woman you  respect shall weep from your
unkindness or blush with shame at  your misconduct.  Poor girls in Italy turn their painted
Madonnas to the wall: you cannot set aside your wife.  To  marry is to domesticate the Recording
Angel.  Once you are  married, there is nothing left for you, not even suicide, but  to be good.

And goodness in marriage is a more intricate problem than  mere single virtue; for in marriage
there are two ideals to be  realised.  A girl, it is true, has always lived in a glass  house
among reproving relatives, whose word was law; she has  been bred up to sacrifice her judgments
and take the key  submissively from dear papa; and it is wonderful how swiftly  she can change
her tune into the husband's.  Her morality has  been, too often, an affair of precept and conformity.
But in  the case of a bachelor who has enjoyed some measure both of  privacy and freedom, his
moral judgments have been passed in  some accordance with his nature.  His sins were always
sins in  his own sight; he could then only sin when he did some act  against his clear conviction;
the light that he walked by was  obscure, but it was single.  Now, when two people of any grit
and spirit put their fortunes into one, there succeeds to this  comparative certainty a huge
welter of competing  jurisdictions.  It no longer matters so much how life appears  to one;
one must consult another: one, who may be strong, must  not offend the other, who is weak.
The only weak brother I am  willing to consider is (to make a bull for once) my wife.  For
her, and for her only, I must waive my righteous judgments,  and go crookedly about my life.
How, then, in such an  atmosphere of compromise, to keep honour bright and abstain  from base
capitulations?  How are you to put aside love's  pleadings?  How are you, the apostle of laxity,
to turn  suddenly about into the rabbi of precision; and after these  years of ragged practice,
pose for a hero to the lackey who  has found you out?  In this temptation to mutual indulgence
lies the particular peril to morality in married life.  Daily  they drop a little lower from
the first ideal, and for a while  continue to accept these changelings with a gross complacency.
At last Love wakes and looks about him; finds his hero sunk  into a stout old brute, intent
on brandy pawnee; finds his  heroine divested of her angel brightness; and in the flash of
that first disenchantment, flees for ever.

Again, the husband, in these unions, is usually a man,  and the wife commonly enough a woman;
and when this is the  case, although it makes the firmer marriage, a thick  additional veil
of misconception hangs above the doubtful  business.  Women, I believe, are somewhat rarer
than men; but  then, if I were a woman myself, I daresay I should hold the  reverse; and at
least we all enter more or less wholly into  one or other of these camps.  A man who delights
women by his  feminine perceptions will often scatter his admirers by a  chance explosion of
the under side of man; and the most  masculine and direct of women will some day, to your dire
surprise, draw out like a telescope into successive lengths of  personation.  Alas! for the
man, knowing her to be at heart  more candid than himself, who shall flounder, panting, through
these mazes in the quest for truth.  The proper qualities of  each sex are, indeed, eternally
surprising to the other.   Between the Latin and the Teuton races there are similar  divergences,
not to be bridged by the most liberal sympathy.   And in the good, plain, cut-and-dry explanations
of this life,  which pass current among us as the wisdom of the elders, this  difficulty has
been turned with the aid of pious lies.  Thus,  when a young lady has angelic features, eats
nothing to speak  of, plays all day long on the piano, and sings ravishingly in  church, it
requires a rough infidelity, falsely called  cynicism, to believe that she may be a little
devil after all.   Yet so it is: she may be a tale-bearer, a liar, and a thief;  she may have
a taste for brandy, and no heart.  My compliments  to George Eliot for her Rosamond Vincy;
the ugly work of  satire she has transmuted to the ends of art, by the companion  figure of
Lydgate; and the satire was much wanted for the  education of young men.  That doctrine of
the excellence of  women, however chivalrous, is cowardly as well as false.  It  is better
to face the fact, and know, when you marry, that you  take into your life a creature of equal,
if of unlike,  frailties; whose weak human heart beats no more tunefully than  yours.  What
the boy does  almost proudly, as a manly peccadillo, the girl will shudder  at as a debasing
vice; what is to her the mere common sense of  tactics, he will spit out of his mouth as shameful.
Through  such a sea of contrarieties must this green couple steer their  way; and contrive
to love each other; and to respect,  forsooth; and be ready, when the time arrives, to educate
the  little men and women who shall succeed to their places and  perplexities.

And yet, when all has been said, the man who should hold  back from marriage is in the same
case with him who runs away  from battle.  The noblest passage in one of the noblest books
of this  century, is where the old pope glories in the trial, nay, in  the partial fall and
but imperfect triumph, of the younger  hero. (1)  Without some such manly note, it were perhaps
better to have no conscience at all.  But there is a vast  difference between teaching flight,
and showing points of  peril that a man may march the more warily.  And the true  conclusion
of this paper is to turn our back on apprehensions,  and embrace that shining and courageous
virtue, Faith.  Hope  is the boy, a blind, headlong, pleasant fellow, good to chase  swallows
with the salt; Faith is the grave, experienced, yet  smiling man.  Hope lives on ignorance;
open-eyed Faith is  built upon a knowledge of our life, of the tyranny of  circumstance and
the frailty of human resolution.   Hope is a kind old pagan; but Faith grew up in Christian
days,  and early learnt humility.  In the one temper, a man is  indignant that he cannot spring
up in a clap to heights of  elegance and virtue; in the other, out of a sense of his  infirmities,
he is filled with confidence because a year has  come and gone, and he has still preserved
some rags of honour.

(1) Browning's RING AND BOOK.

III. - ON FALLING IN LOVE

"Lord, what fools these mortals be!"  I remember an anecdote of  a well-known French theorist,
who was debating a point eagerly  in his CENACLE.  It was objected against him that he had
never  experienced love.  Whereupon he arose, left the society, and  made it a point not to
return to it until he considered that  he had supplied the defect.  "Now," he remarked, on
entering,  "now I am in a position to continue the discussion."  Perhaps  he had not penetrated
very deeply into the subject after all;  but the story indicates right thinking, and may serve
as an  apologue to readers of this essay.

When at last the scales fall from his eyes, it is not  without something of the nature of dismay
that the man finds  himself in such changed conditions.  He has to deal with  commanding emotions
instead of the easy dislikes and  preferences in which he has hitherto passed his days; and
he  recognises capabilities for pain and pleasure of which he had  not yet suspected the existence.
Falling in love is the one  illogical adventure, the one thing of which we are tempted to 
think as supernatural, in our trite and reasonable world.  The  effect is out of all proportion
with the cause.  Two persons,  neither of them, it may be, very amiable or very beautiful,
meet, speak a little, and look a little into each other's  eyes.  That has been done a dozen
or so of times in the  experience of either with no great result.  But on this  occasion all
is different.  They fall at once into that state  in which another person becomes to us the
very gist and  centrepoint of God's creation, and demolishes our laborious  theories with a
smile; in which our ideas are so bound up with  the one master-thought that even the trivial
cares of our own  person become so many acts of devotion, and the love of life  itself is translated
into a wish to remain in the same world  with so precious and desirable a fellow-creature.
And all the  while their acquaintances look on in stupor, and ask each  other, with almost
passionate emphasis, what so-and-so can see  in that woman, or such-an-one in that man?  I
am sure,  gentlemen, I cannot tell you.  For my part, I cannot think  what the women mean.
It might be very well, if the Apollo  Belvedere should suddenly glow all over into life, and
step  forward from the pedestal with that godlike air of his.  But  of the misbegotten changelings
who call themselves men, and  prate intolerably over dinner-tables, I never saw one who  seemed
worthy to inspire love - no, nor read of any, except  Leonardo da Vinci, and perhaps Goethe
in his youth.  About  women I entertain a somewhat different opinion; but there, I  have the
misfortune to be a man.  You know the difficulty Shakespeare was put  into when Queen Elizabeth
asked him to show Falstaff in love.   I do not believe that Henry Fielding was ever in love.
Scott,  if it were not for a passage or two in ROB ROY, would give me  very much the same effect.
These are great names and (what is  more to the purpose) strong, healthy, high-strung, and
generous natures, of whom the reverse might have been  expected.  As for the innumerable army
of anaemic and  tailorish persons who occupy the face of this planet with so  much propriety,
it is palpably absurd to imagine them in any  such situation as a love-affair.  There is the
nice and critical moment  of declaration to be got over.  From timidity or lack of  opportunity
a good half of possible love cases never get so  far, and at least another quarter do there
cease and  determine.  A very adroit person, to be sure, manages to  prepare the way and out
with his declaration in the nick of  time.  And then there is a fine solid sort of man, who
goes on  from snub to snub; and if he has to declare forty times, will  continue imperturbably
declaring, amid the astonished  consideration of men and angels, until he has a favourable
answer.  I daresay, if one were a woman, one would like to  marry a man who was capable of
doing this, but not quite one  who had done so.  It is just a little bit abject, and somehow
just a little bit gross; and marriages in which one of the  parties has been thus battered
into consent scarcely form  agreeable subjects for meditation.  Love should run out to  meet
love with open arms.  Indeed, the ideal story is that of  two people who go into love step
for step, with a fluttered  consciousness, like a pair of children venturing together into
a dark room.  From the first moment when they see each other,  with a pang of curiosity, through
stage after stage of growing  pleasure and embarrassment, they can read the expression of 
their own trouble in each other's eyes.  There is here no  declaration properly so called;
the feeling is so plainly  shared, that as soon as the man knows what it is in his own  heart,
he is sure of what it is in the woman's.

