The shock was effectual; never again was Lieutenant Seaforth known to act the part of a somnambulist.
One by one, his breeches--his trousers--his pantaloons--his silk-net tights--his patent cords--his
showy greys with the broad red stripe of the Bombay Fencibles were brought to light--rescued
from the grave in which they had been buried, like the strata of a Christmas pie; and after
having been well aired by Mrs. Botherby, became once again effective.

The family, the ladies especially, laughed; the Peterses laughed; the Simpkinsons laughed;--Barney
Maguire cried "Botheration!" and Ma'mselle Pauline, "Mon Dieu!"

Charles Seaforth, unable to face the quizzing which awaited him on all sides, started off two
hours earlier than he had proposed:--he soon returned, however; and having, at his father-in-law's
request, given up the occupation of Rajah-hunting and shooting Nabobs, led his blushing bride
to the altar.

Mr. Simpkinson from Bath did not attend the ceremony, being engaged at the Grand Junction meeting
of Sçavans, then, congregating from all parts of the known world in the city of Dublin. His
essay, demonstrating that the globe is a great custard, whipped into coagulation by whirlwinds
and cooked by electricity--a little too much baked in the Isle of Portland, and a thought underdone
about the Bog of Allen--was highly spoken of, and narrowly escaped obtaining a Bridgewater prize.

Miss Simpkinson and her sister acted as brides-maids on the occasion; the former wrote an epithalamium,
and the latter cried "Lassy me!" at the clergyman's wig. Some years have since rolled on; the
union has been crowned with two or three tidy little off-shoots from the family tree, of whom
Master Neddy is "grandpapa's darling," and Mary Anne mamma's particular "Sock." I shall only
add, that Mr. and Mrs. Seaforth are living together quite as happily as two good-hearted, good-tempered
bodies, very fond of each other, can possibly do; and that, since the day of his marriage,
Charles has shown no disposition to jump out of bed, or ramble out of doors o' nights--though
from his entire devotion to every wish and whim of his young wife, Tom insinuates that the
fair Caroline does still occasionally take advantage of it so far as to "slip on the breeches."

IN THE BARN

BY BURGES JOHNSON

From the Century Magazine, June, 1920. By permission of the Century Company and Burges Johnson.

In the Barn

BY BURGES JOHNSON

The moment we had entered the barn, I regretted the rash good nature which prompted me to consent
to the plans of those vivacious young students. Miss Anstell and Miss Royce and one or two
others, often leaders in student mischief, I suspect, were the first to enter, and they amused
themselves by hiding in the darkness and greeting the rest of our party as we entered with
sundry shrieks and moans such as are commonly attributed to ghosts. My wife and I brought up
the rear, carrying the two farm lanterns. She had selected the place after an amused consideration
of the question, and I confess I hardly approved her judgment. But she is native to this part
of the country, and she had assured us that there were some vague traditions hanging about
the building that made it most suitable for our purposes.

It was a musty old place, without even as much tidiness as is usually found in barns, and there
was a dank smell about it, as though generations of haymows had decayed there. There were holes
in the floor, and in the dusk of early evening it was necessary for us to pick our way with
the greatest care. It occurred to me then, in a premonitory sort of way, that if some young
woman student sprained her ankle in this absurd environment, I should be most embarrassed to
explain it. Apparently it was a hay barn, whose vague dimensions were lost in shadow. Rafters
crossed its width about twenty feet above our heads, and here and there a few boards lay across
the rafters, furnishing foothold for anyone who might wish to operate the ancient pulley that
was doubtless once used for lifting bales. The northern half of the floor was covered with
hay to a depth of two or three feet. How long it had actually been there I cannot imagine.
It was extremely dusty, and I feared a recurrence of my old enemy, hay fever; but it was too
late to offer objection on such grounds, and my wife and I followed our chattering guides,
who disposed themselves here and there on this ancient bed of hay, and insisted that we should
find places in the center of their circle.

At my suggestion, the two farm lanterns had been left at a suitable distance, in fact, quite
at the other side of the barn, and our only light came from the rapidly falling twilight of
outdoors, which found its way through a little window and sundry cracks high in the eaves above
the rafters.

There was something about the place, now that we were settled and no longer occupied with adjustments
of comfort, that subdued our spirits, and it was with much less hilarity that the young people
united in demanding a story. I looked across at my wife, whose face was faintly visible within
the circle. I thought that even in the half-light I glimpsed the same expression of amused
incredulity which she had worn earlier in the day when I had yielded to the importunities of
a deputation of my students for this ghost-story party on the eve of a holiday.

"There is no reason," I thought to myself, repeating the phrases I had used then--"there is
no reason why I should not tell a ghost story. True, I had never done so before, but the literary
attainments which have enabled me to perfect my recent treatise upon the 'Disuse of the Comma'
are quite equal to impromptu experimentation in the field of psychic phenomena." I was aware
that the young people themselves hardly expected serious acquiescence, and that, too, stimulated
me. I cleared my throat in a prefatory manner, and silence fell upon the group. A light breeze
had risen outside, and the timbers of the barn creaked persistently. From the shadows almost
directly overhead there came a faint clanking. It was evidently caused by the rusty pulley-wheel
which I had observed there as we entered. An iron hook at the end of an ancient rope still
depended from it, and swung in the lightly stirring air several feet above our heads, directly
over the center of our circle.

Some curious combination of influences--perhaps the atmosphere of the place, added to the stimulation
of the faintly discernible faces around me, and my impulse to prove my own ability in this
untried field of narration--gave me a sudden sense of being inspired. I found myself voicing
fancies as though they were facts, and readily including imaginary names and data which certainly
were not in any way premeditated.

"This barn stands on the old Creed place," I began. "Peter Creed was its last owner, but I
suppose that it has always been and always will be known as the Turner barn. A few yards away
to the south you will find the crumbling brick-work and gaping hollows of an old foundation,
now overgrown with weeds that almost conceal a few charred timbers. That is all that is left
of the old Ashley Turner house."

I cleared my throat again, not through any effort to gain time for my thoughts, but to feel
for a moment the satisfaction arising from the intent attitude of my audience, particularly
my wife, who had leaned forward and was looking at me with an expression of startled surprise.

"Ashley Turner must have had a pretty fine-looking farm here thirty years or so ago," I continued,
"when he brought his wife to it. This barn was new then. But he was a ne'er-do-well, with nothing
to be said in his favor, unless you admit his fame as a practical joker. Strange how the ne'er-do-well
is often equipped with an extravagant sense of humor! Turner had a considerable retinue among
the riffraff boys of the neighborhood, who made this barn a noisy rendezvous and followed his
hints in much whimsical mischief. But he committed most of his practical jokes when drunk,
and in his sober moments he abused his family and let his wife struggle to keep up the acres,
assisted only by a half-competent man of all work. Finally he took to roving. No one knew how
he got pocket-money; his wife could not have given him any. Then someone discovered that he
was going over to Creed's now and then, and everything was explained."

This concise data of mine was evidently not holding the close attention of my youthful audience.
They annoyed me by frequent pranks and whisperings. No one could have been more surprised at
my glibness than I myself, except perhaps my wife, whose attitude of strained attention had
not relaxed. I resumed my story.

"Peter Creed was a good old-fashioned usurer of the worst type. He went to church regularly
one day in the week and gouged his neighbors--any that he could get into his clutches--on the
other six. He must have been lending Turner drinking money, and everyone knew what the security
must be.

"At last there came a day when the long-suffering wife revolted. Turner had come home extra
drunk and in his most maudlin humor. Probably he attempted some drunken prank upon his over-taxed
helpmate. Old Ike, the hired man, said that he thought Turner had rigged up some scare for
her in the barn and that he had never heard anything so much like straight talking from his
mistress, either before or since, and he was working in the woodshed at the time, with the
door shut. Shortly after that tirade Ashley Turner disappeared, and no one saw or heard of
him or thought about him for a couple of years except when the sight of his tired-looking wife
and scrawny children revived the recollection.

"At last, on a certain autumn day, old Peter Creed turned up here at the Turner place. I imagine
Mrs. Turner knew what was in store for her when his rusty buggy came in sight around the corner
of the barn. At any rate, she made no protest, and listened meekly to his curt statement that
he held an overdue mortgage, with plenty of back interest owing, and it was time for her to
go. She went. Neither she nor anyone else doubted Creed's rights in the matter, and, after
all, I believe it got a better home for her somewhere in the long run."

I paused here in my narration to draw breath and readjust my leg, which had become cramped.
There was a general readjustment and shifting of position, with some levity. It was darker
now. The rafters above us were invisible, and the faces about me looked oddly white against
the shadowy background. After a moment or two of delay I cleared my throat sharply and continued.

"Old Creed came thus into possession of this place, just as he had come to own a dozen others
in the county. He usually lived on one until he was able to sell it at a good profit over his
investment; so he settled down in the Turner house, and kept old Ike because he worked for
little or nothing. But he seemed to have a hard time finding a purchaser.

"It must have been about a year later when an unexpected thing happened. Creed had come out
here to the barn to lock up--he always did that himself--when he noticed something unusual
about the haymow--this haymow--which stood then about six feet above the barn floor. He looked
closer through the dusk, and saw a pair of boots; went nearer, and found that they were fitted
to a pair of human legs whose owner was sound asleep in his hay. Creed picked up a short stick
and beat on one boot.

"'Get out of here,' he said, 'or I'll have you locked up.' The sleeper woke in slow fashion,
sat up, grinned, and said:

"'Hello, Peter Creed.' It was Ashley Turner, beyond question. Creed stepped back a pace or
two and seemed at a loss for words. An object slipped from Turner's pocket as he moved, slid
along the hay, and fell to the barn floor. It was a half-filled whisky-flask.

"No one knows full details of the conversation that ensued, of course. Such little as I am
able to tell you of what was said and done comes through old Ike, who watched from a safe distance
outside the barn, ready to act at a moment's notice as best suited his own safety and welfare.
Of one thing Ike was certain--Creed lacked his usual browbeating manner. He was apparently
struggling to assume an unwonted friendliness. Turner was very drunk, but triumphant, and his
satisfaction over what he must have felt was the practical joke of his life seemed to make
him friendly.

"'I kept 'em all right,' he said again and again. 'I've got the proof. I wasn't working for
nothing all these months. I ain't fool enough yet to throw away papers even when I'm drunk.'

"To the watchful Ike's astonishment, Creed evidently tried to persuade him to come into the
house for something to eat. Turner slid off the haymow, found his steps too unsteady, laughed
foolishly, and suggested that Creed bring some food to him there. 'Guess I've got a right to
sleep in the barn or house, whichever I want,' he said, leering into Creed's face. The old
usurer stood there for a few minutes eying Turner thoughtfully. Then he actually gave him a
shoulder back onto the hay, said something about finding a snack of supper, and started out
of the barn. In the doorway he turned, looked back, then walked over to the edge of the mow
and groped on the floor until he found the whisky-flask, picked it up, tossed it into Turner's
lap, and stumbled out of the barn again."

I was becoming interested in my own story and somewhat pleased with the fluency of it, but
my audience annoyed me. There was intermittent whispering, with some laughter, and I inferred
that one or another would occasionally stimulate this inattention by tickling a companion with
a straw. Miss Anstell, who is so frivolous by nature that I sometimes question her right to
a place in my classroom, I even suspected of irritating the back of my own neck in the same
fashion. Naturally, I ignored it.

"Peter Creed," I repeated, "went into the house. Ike hung around the barn, waiting. He was
frankly curious. In a few minutes his employer reappeared, carrying a plate heaped with an
assortment of scraps. Ike peered and listened then without compunction.

"'It's the best I've got,' he heard Creed say grudgingly. Turner's tones were now more drunkenly
belligerent.

"'It had better be,' he said loudly. 'And I'll take the best bed after to-night.' Evidently
he was eating and muttering between mouthfuls. 'You might have brought me another bottle.'

"'I did,' said Creed, to the listening Ike's great astonishment. Turner laughed immoderately.

"A long silence followed. Turner was either eating or drinking. Then he spoke again, more thickly
and drowsily.

"'Damn unpleasant that rope. Why don't you haul it up out of my way?'

"'It don't hurt you any,' said Creed.

"'Don't you wish it would?' said Turner, with drunken shrewdness. 'But I don't like it. Haul
it away.'

"'I will,' said Creed.

"There was a longer silence, and then there came an intermittent rasping sound. A moment later
Creed came suddenly from the barn. Ike fumbled with a large rake, and made as though to hang
it on its accustomed peg near the barn door. Creed eyed him sharply. 'Get along to bed,' he
ordered, and Ike obeyed.

"That was a Saturday night. On Sunday morning Ike went to the barn later than usual and hesitatingly.
Even then he was first to enter. He found the drunkard's body hanging here over the mow, just
about where we are sitting, stark and cold. It was a gruesome end to a miserable home-coming."

My audience was quiet enough now. Miss Anstell and one or two others giggled loudly, but it
was obviously forced, and found no further echo. The breeze which had sprung up some time before
was producing strange creakings and raspings in the old timbers, and the pulley-wheel far above
us clanked with a dismal repetitious sound, like the tolling of a cracked bell.

I waited a moment, well satisfied with the effect, and then continued.

"The coroner's jury found it suicide, though some shook their heads meaningly. Turner had apparently
sobered up enough to stand, and, making a simple loop around his neck by catching the rope
through its own hook, had then slid off the mow. The rope which went over the pulley-wheel
up there in the roof ran out through a window under the eaves, and was made fast near the barn
door outside, where anyone could haul on it. Creed testified the knot was one he had tied many
days before. Ike was a timorous old man, with a wholesome fear of his employer, and he supported
the testimony and made no reference to his eavesdropping of the previous evening, though he
heard Creed swear before the jury that he did not recognize the tramp he had fed and lodged.
There were no papers in Turner's pockets; only a few coins, and a marked pocket-knife that
gave the first clue to his identity.

"A few of the neighbors said that it was a fitting end, and that the verdict was a just one.
Nevertheless, whisperings began and increased. People avoided Creed and the neighborhood. Rumors
grew that the barn was haunted. Passers-by on the road after dark said they heard the old pulley-wheel
clanking when no breeze stirred, much as you hear it now. Some claim to have heard maudlin
laughter. Possible purchasers were frightened away, and Creed grew more and more solitary and
misanthropic. Old Ike hung on, Heaven knows why, though I suppose Creed paid him some sort of wage.

"Rumors grew. Folks said that neither Ike nor Creed entered this barn after a time, and no
hay was put in, though Creed would not have been Creed if he had not sold off the bulk of what
he had, ghost or no ghost. I can imagine him slowly forking it out alone, daytimes, and the
amount of hay still here proves that even he finally lost courage."

I paused a moment, but though there was much uneasy stirring about, and the dismal clanking
directly above us was incessant, no one of my audience spoke. It was wholly dark now, and I
think all had drawn closer together.

"About ten years ago people began calling Creed crazy." Here I was forced to interrupt my own
story. "I shall have to ask you, Miss Anstell, to stop annoying me. I have been aware for some
moments that you are brushing my head with a straw, but I have ignored it for the sake of the
others." Out of the darkness came Miss Anstell's voice, protesting earnestly, and I realized
from the direction of the sound that in the general readjustment she must have settled down
in the very center of our circle, and could not be the one at fault. One of the others was
childish enough to simulate a mocking burst of raucous laughter, but I chose to ignore it.

"Very well," said I, graciously; "shall I go on?"

"Go on," echoed a subdued chorus.

"It was the night of the twenty-eighth of May, ten years ago----"

"Not the twenty-eighth," broke in my wife's voice, sharply; "that is to-day's date." There
was a note in her voice that I hardly recognized, but it indicated that she was in some way
affected by my narration, and I felt a distinct sense of triumph.

"It was the night of May twenty-eighth," I repeated firmly.

"Are you making up this story?" my wife's voice continued, still with the same odd tone.

"I am, my dear, and you are interrupting it."

"But an Ashley Turner and later a Peter Creed owned this place," she persisted almost in a
whisper, "and I am sure you never heard of them."

I confess that I might wisely have broken off my story then and called for a light. There had
been an hysterical note in my wife's voice, and I was startled at her words, for I had no conscious
recollection of either name; yet I felt a resultant exhilaration. Our lanterns had grown strangely
dim, though I was certain both had been recently trimmed and filled; and from their far corner
of the barn they threw no light whatever into our circle. I faced an utter blackness.

"On that night," said I, "old Ike was wakened by sounds as of someone fumbling to unbar and
open the housedoor. It was an unwonted hour, and he peered from the window of his little room.
By the dim starlight--it was just before dawn--he could see all of the open yard and roadway
before the house, with the great barn looming like a black and sinister shadow as its farther
barrier. Crossing this space, he saw the figure of Peter Creed, grotesquely stooped and old
in the obscuring gloom, moving slowly, almost gropingly, and yet directly, as though impelled,
toward the barn's overwhelming shadow. Slowly he unbarred the great door, swung it open, and
entered the blacker shadows it concealed. The door closed after him.

"Ike in his secure post of observation did not stir. He could not. Even to his crude imagining
there was something utterly horrible in the thought of Creed alone at that hour in just such
black darkness as this, with the great timbered chamber haunted at least by its dread memories.
He could only wait, tense and fearful of he knew not what.

"A shriek that pierced the silence relaxed his tension, bringing almost a sense of relief,
so definite had been his expectancy. But it was a burst of shrill laughter, ribald, uncanny,
undeniable, accompanying the shriek that gave him power of motion. He ran half naked a quarter
of a mile to the nearest neighbor's and told his story."

       *       *       *       *       *

"They found Creed hanging, the rope hooked simply around his neck. It was a silent jury that
filed from the barn that morning after viewing the body. 'Suicide,' said they, after Ike, shivering
and stammering, had testified, harking back to the untold evidence of that other morning years
before. Yes, Creed was dead, with a terrible look on his wizen face, and the dusty old rope
ran through its pulley-wheel and was fast to a beam high above.

"'He must of climbed to the beam, made the rope fast, and jumped,' said the foreman, solemnly.
'He must of, he must of,' repeated the man, parrot-like, while the sweat stood out on his forehead,
'because there wasn't no other way; but as God is my judge, the knot in the rope and the dust
on the beam ain't been disturbed for years.'"

At this dramatic climax there was an audible sigh from my audience. I sat quietly for a time,
content to allow the silence and the atmosphere of the place, which actually seemed surcharged
with influences not of my creation, to add to the effect my story had caused. There was scarcely
a movement in our circle; of that I felt sure. And yet once more, out of the almost tangible
darkness above me, something seemed to reach down and brush against my head. A slight motion
of air, sufficient to disturb my rather scanty locks, was additional proof that I was the butt
of some prank that had just missed its objective. Then, with a fearful suddenness, close to
my ear burst a shrill discord of laughter, so uncanny and so unlike the usual sound of student
merriment that I started up, half wondering if I had heard it. Almost immediately after it
the heavy darkness was torn again by a shriek so terrible in its intensity as completely to
differentiate it from the other cries which followed.

"Bring a light!" cried a voice that I recognized as that of my wife, though strangely distorted
by emotion. There was a great confusion. Young women struggled from their places and impeded
one another in the darkness; but finally, and it seemed an unbearable delay, someone brought
a single lantern.

Its frail light revealed Miss Anstell half upright from her place in the center of our circle,
my wife's arms sustaining her weight. Her face, as well as I could see it, seemed darkened
and distorted, and when we forced her clutching hands away from her bared throat we could see,
even in that light, the marks of an angry, throttling scar entirely encircling it. Just above
her head the old pulley-rope swayed menacingly in the faint breeze.

My recollection is even now confused as to the following moments and our stumbling escape from
that gruesome spot. Miss Anstell is now at her home, recovering from what her physician calls
mental shock. My wife will not speak of it. The questions I would ask her are checked on my
lips by the look of utter terror in her eyes. As I have confessed to you, my own philosophy
is hard put to it to withstand not so much the community attitude toward what they are pleased
to call my taste in practical joking, but to assemble and adjust the facts of my experience.

A SHADY PLOT

BY ELSIE BROWN

This story was submitted as a class exercise in one of my short-story classes at Columbia University.
At my request the author, Elsie Brown, contributed it to this volume.

A Shady Plot

BY ELSIE BROWN

So I sat down to write a ghost story.

Jenkins was responsible.

"Hallock," he had said to me, "give us another on the supernatural this time. Something to
give 'em the horrors; that's what the public wants, and your ghosts are live propositions."

Well, I was in no position to contradict Jenkins, for, as yet, his magazine had been the only
one to print my stuff. So I had said, "Precisely!" in the deepest voice I was capable of, and
had gone out.

I hadn't the shade of an idea, but at the time that didn't worry me in the least. You see,
I had often been like that before and in the end things had always come my way--I didn't in
the least know how or why. It had all been rather mysterious. You understand I didn't specialize
in ghost stories, but more or less they seemed to specialize in me. A ghost story had been
the first fiction I had written. Curious how that idea for a plot had come to me out of nowhere
after I had chased inspiration in vain for months! Even now whenever Jenkins wanted a ghost,
he called on me. And I had never found it healthy to contradict Jenkins. Jenkins always seemed
to have an uncanny knowledge as to when the landlord or the grocer were pestering me, and he
dunned me for a ghost. And somehow I'd always been able to dig one up for him, so I'd begun
to get a bit cocky as to my ability.

So I went home and sat down before my desk and sucked at the end of my pencil and waited, but
nothing happened. Pretty soon my mind began to wander off on other things, decidedly unghostly
and material things, such as my wife's shopping and how on earth I was going to cure her of
her alarming tendency to take every new fad that came along and work it to death. But I realized
that would never get me any place, so I went back to staring at the ceiling.

"This writing business is delightful, isn't it?" I said sarcastically at last, out loud, too.
You see, I had reached the stage of imbecility when I was talking to myself.

"Yes," said a voice at the other end of the room, "I should say it is!"

I admit I jumped. Then I looked around.

It was twilight by this time and I had forgotten to turn on the lamp. The other end of the
room was full of shadows and furniture. I sat staring at it and presently noticed something
just taking shape. It was exactly like watching one of these moving picture cartoons being
put together. First an arm came out, then a bit of sleeve of a stiff white shirtwaist, then
a leg and a plaid skirt, until at last there she was complete,--whoever she was.

She was long and angular, with enormous fishy eyes behind big bone-rimmed spectacles, and her
hair in a tight wad at the back of her head (yes, I seemed able to see right through her head)
and a jaw--well, it looked so solid that for the moment I began to doubt my very own senses
and believe she was real after all.

She came over and stood in front of me and glared--yes, positively glared down at me, although
(to my knowledge) I had never laid eyes on the woman before, to say nothing of giving her cause
to look at me like that.

I sat still, feeling pretty helpless I can tell you, and at last she barked:

"What are you gaping at?"

I swallowed, though I hadn't been chewing anything.

"Nothing," I said. "Absolutely nothing. My dear lady, I was merely waiting for you to tell
me why you had come. And excuse me, but do you always come in sections like this? I should
think your parts might get mixed up sometimes."

"Didn't you send for me?" she crisped.

Imagine how I felt at that!

"Why, no. I--I don't seem to remember----"

"Look here. Haven't you been calling on heaven and earth all afternoon to help you write a story?"

I nodded, and then a possible explanation occurred to me and my spine got cold. Suppose this
was the ghost of a stenographer applying for a job! I had had an advertisement in the paper
recently. I opened my mouth to explain that the position was filled, and permanently so, but
she stopped me.

"And when I got back to the office from my last case and was ready for you, didn't you switch
off to something else and sit there driveling so I couldn't attract your attention until just now?"

"I--I'm very sorry, really."

"Well, you needn't be, because I just came to tell you to stop bothering us for assistance;
you ain't going to get it. We're going on Strike!"

"What!"

"You don't have to yell at me."

"I--I didn't mean to yell," I said humbly. "But I'm afraid I didn't quite understand you. You
said you were----"

"Going on strike. Don't you know what a strike is? Not another plot do you get from us!"

I stared at her and wet my lips.

"Is--is that where they've been coming from?"

"Of course. Where else?"

"But my ghosts aren't a bit like you----"

"If they were people wouldn't believe in them." She draped herself on the top of my desk among
the pens and ink bottles and leaned towards me. "In the other life I used to write."

"You did!"

She nodded.

"But that has nothing to do with my present form. It might have, but I gave it up at last for
that very reason, and went to work as a reader on a magazine." She sighed, and rubbed the end
of her long eagle nose with a reminiscent finger. "Those were terrible days; the memory of
them made me mistake purgatory for paradise, and at last when I attained my present state of
being, I made up my mind that something should be done. I found others who had suffered similarly,
and between us we organized 'The Writer's Inspiration Bureau.' We scout around until we find
a writer without ideas and with a mind soft enough to accept impression. The case is brought
to the attention of the main office, and one of us assigned to it. When that case is finished
we bring in a report."

"But I never saw you before----"

"And you wouldn't have this time if I hadn't come to announce the strike. Many a time I've
leaned on your shoulder when you've thought you were thinking hard--" I groaned, and clutched
my hair. The very idea of that horrible scarecrow so much as touching me! and wouldn't my wife
be shocked! I shivered. "But," she continued, "that's at an end. We've been called out of our
beds a little too often in recent years, and now we're through."

"But my dear madam, I assure you I have had nothing to do with that. I hope I'm properly grateful
and all that, you see."

"Oh, it isn't you," she explained patronizingly. "It's those Ouija board fanatics. There was
a time when we had nothing much to occupy us and used to haunt a little on the side, purely
for amusement, but not any more. We've had to give up haunting almost entirely. We sit at a
desk and answer questions now. And such questions!"

She shook her head hopelessly, and taking off her glasses wiped them, and put them back on
her nose again.

"But what have I got to do with this?"

She gave me a pitying look and rose.

"You're to exert your influence. Get all your friends and acquaintances to stop using the Ouija
board, and then we'll start helping you to write."

"But----"

There was a footstep outside my door.

"John! Oh, John!" called the voice of my wife.

I waved my arms at the ghost with something of the motion of a beginner when learning to swim.

"Madam, I must ask you to leave, and at once. Consider the impression if you were seen here----"

The ghost nodded, and began, very sensibly, I thought, to demobilize and evaporate. First the
brogans on her feet grew misty until I could see the floor through them, then the affection
spread to her knees and gradually extended upward. By this time my wife was opening the door.

"Don't forget the strike," she repeated, while her lower jaw began to disintegrate, and as
my Lavinia crossed the room to me the last vestige of her ear faded into space.

"John, why in the world are you sitting in the dark?"

"Just--thinking, my dear."

"Thinking, rubbish! You were talking out loud."

I remained silent while she lit the lamps, thankful that her back was turned to me. When I
am nervous or excited there is a muscle in my face that starts to twitch, and this pulls up
one corner of my mouth and gives the appearance of an idiotic grin. So far I had managed to
conceal this affliction from Lavinia.

"You know I bought the loveliest thing this afternoon. Everybody's wild over them!"

I remembered her craze for taking up new fads and a premonitory chill crept up the back of my neck.

"It--it isn't----" I began and stopped. I simply couldn't ask; the possibility was too horrible.

"You'd never guess in the world. It's the duckiest, darlingest Ouija board, and so cheap! I
got it at a bargain sale. Why, what's the matter, John?"

I felt things slipping.

"Nothing," I said, and looked around for the ghost. Suppose she had lingered, and upon hearing
what my wife had said should suddenly appear----Like all sensitive women, Lavinia was subject
to hysterics.

"But you looked so funny----"

"I--I always do when I'm interested," I gulped. "But don't you think that was a foolish thing
to buy?"

"Foolish! Oh, John! Foolish! And after me getting it for you!"

"For me! What do you mean?"

"To help you write your stories. Why, for instance, suppose you wanted to write an historical
novel. You wouldn't have to wear your eyes out over those musty old books in the public library.
All you'd have to do would be to get out your Ouija and talk to Napoleon, or William the Conqueror,
or Helen of Troy--well, maybe not Helen--anyhow you'd have all the local color you'd need,
and without a speck of trouble. And think how easy writing your short stories will be now."

"But Lavinia, you surely don't believe in Ouija boards."

"I don't know, John--they are awfully thrilling."

She had seated herself on the arm of my chair and was looking dreamily across the room. I started
and turned around. There was nothing there, and I sank back with relief. So far so good.

"Oh, certainly, they're thrilling all right. That's just it, they're a darn sight too thrilling.
They're positively devilish. Now, Lavinia, you have plenty of sense, and I want you to get
rid of that thing just as soon as you can. Take it back and get something else."

My wife crossed her knees and stared at me through narrowed lids.

"John Hallock," she said distinctly. "I don't propose to do anything of the kind. In the first
place they won't exchange things bought at a bargain sale, and in the second, if you aren't
interested in the other world I am. So there!" and she slid down and walked from the room before
I could think of a single thing to say. She walked very huffily.

Well, it was like that all the rest of the evening. Just as soon as I mentioned Ouija boards
I felt things begin to cloud up; so I decided to let it go for the present, in the hope that
she might be more reasonable later.

After supper I had another try at the writing, but as my mind continued a perfect blank I gave
it up and went off to bed.

The next day was Saturday, and it being near the end of the month and a particularly busy day,
I left home early without seeing Lavinia. Understand, I haven't quite reached the point where
I can give my whole time to writing, and being bookkeeper for a lumber company does help with
the grocery bills and pay for Lavinia's fancy shopping. Friday had been a half holiday, and
of course when I got back the work was piled up pretty high; so high, in fact, that ghosts
and stories and everything else vanished in a perfect tangle of figures.

When I got off the street car that evening my mind was still churning. I remember now that
I noticed, even from the corner, how brightly the house was illuminated, but at the time that
didn't mean anything to me. I recall as I went up the steps and opened the door I murmured:

"Nine times nine is eighty-one!"

And then Gladolia met me in the hall.

"Misto Hallock, de Missus sho t'inks you's lost! She say she done 'phone you dis mawnin' to
be home early, but fo' de lawd's sake not to stop to argify now, but get ready fo' de company
an' come on down."

Some memory of a message given me by one of the clerks filtered back through my brain, but
I had been hunting three lost receipts at the time, and had completely forgotten it.

"Company?" I said stupidly. "What company?"

"De Missus's Ouija boahrd pahrty," said Gladolia, and rolling her eyes she disappeared in the
direction of the kitchen.

I must have gone upstairs and dressed and come down again, for I presently found myself standing
in the dimly lighted lower hall wearing my second best suit and a fresh shirt and collar. But
I have no recollections of the process.

There was a great chattering coming from our little parlor and I went over to the half-opened
door and peered through.

The room was full of women--most of them elderly--whom I recognized as belonging to my wife's
Book Club. They were sitting in couples, and between each couple was a Ouija board! The mournful
squeak of the legs of the moving triangular things on which they rested their fingers filled
the air and mixed in with the conversation. I looked around for the ghost with my heart sunk
down to zero. What if Lavinia should see her and go mad before my eyes! And then my wife came
and tapped me on the shoulder.

"John," she said in her sweetest voice, and I noticed that her cheeks were very pink and her
eyes very bright. My wife is never so pretty as when she's doing something she knows I disapprove
of, "John, dear I know you'll help us out. Mrs. William Augustus Wainright 'phoned at the last
moment to say that she couldn't possibly come, and that leaves poor Laura Hinkle without a
partner. Now, John, I know some people can work a Ouija by themselves, but Laura can't, and
she'll just have a horrible time unless you----"

"Me!" I gasped. "Me! I won't----" but even as I spoke she had taken my arm, and the next thing
I knew I was sitting with the thing on my knees and Miss Laura Hinkle opposite, grinning in
my face like a flirtatious crocodile.

"I--I won't----" I began.

"Now, Mr. Hallock, don't you be shy." Miss Laura Hinkle leaned forward and shook a bony finger
almost under my chin.

"I--I'm not! Only I say I won't----!"

"No, it's very easy, really. You just put the tips of your fingers right here beside the tips
of my fingers----"

And the first thing I knew she had taken my hands and was coyly holding them in the position
desired. She released them presently, and the little board began to slide around in an aimless
sort of way. There seemed to be some force tugging it about. I looked at my partner, first
with suspicion, and then with a vast relief. If she was doing it, then all that talk about
spirits----Oh, I did hope Miss Laura Hinkle was cheating with that board!

"Ouija, dear, won't you tell us something?" she cooed, and on the instant the thing seemed
to take life.

It rushed to the upper left hand corner of the board and hovered with its front leg on the
word "Yes." Then it began to fly around so fast that I gave up any attempt to follow it. My
companion was bending forward and had started to spell out loud:

"'T-r-a-i-t-o-r.' Traitor! Why, what does she mean?"

"I don't know," I said desperately. My collar felt very tight.

"But she must mean something. Ouija, dear, won't you explain yourself more fully?"

"'A-s-k-h-i-m!' Ask him. Ask who, Ouija?"

"I--I'm going." I choked and tried to get up but my fingers seemed stuck to that dreadful board
and I dropped back again.

Apparently Miss Hinkle had not heard my protest. The thing was going around faster than ever
and she was reading the message silently, with her brow corrugated, and the light of the huntress
in her pale blue eyes.

"Why, she says it's you, Mr. Hallock. What does she mean? Ouija, won't you tell us who is talking?"

I groaned, but that inexorable board continued to spell. I always did hate a spelling match!
Miss Hinkle was again following it aloud:

"'H-e-l-e-n.' Helen!" She raised her voice until it could be heard at the other end of the
room. "Lavinia, dear, do you know anyone by the name of Helen?"

"By the name of----? I can't hear you." And my wife made her way over to us between the Book
Club's chairs.

"You know the funniest thing has happened," she whispered excitedly. "Someone had been trying
to communicate with John through Mrs. Hunt's and Mrs. Sprinkle's Ouija! Someone by the name
of Helen----"

"Why, isn't that curious!"

"What is?"

Miss Hinkle simpered.

"Someone giving the name of Helen has just been calling for your husband here."

"But we don't know anyone by the name of Helen----"

Lavinia stopped and began to look at me through narrowed lids much as she had done in the library
the evening before.

And then from different parts of the room other manipulators began to report. Every plagued
one of those five Ouija boards was calling me by name! I felt my ears grow crimson, purple,
maroon. My wife was looking at me as though I were some peculiar insect. The squeak of Ouija
boards and the murmur of conversation rose louder and louder, and then I felt my face twitch
in the spasm of that idiotic grin. I tried to straighten my wretched features into their usual
semblance of humanity, I tried and----

"Doesn't he look sly!" said Miss Hinkle. And then I got up and fled from the room.

I do not know how that party ended. I do not want to know. I went straight upstairs, and undressed
and crawled into bed, and lay there in the burning dark while the last guest gurgled in the
hall below about the wonderful evening she had spent. I lay there while the front door shut
after her, and Lavinia's steps came up the stairs and--passed the door to the guest room beyond.
And then after a couple of centuries elapsed the clock struck three and I dozed off to sleep.

At the breakfast table the next morning there was no sign of my wife. I concluded she was sleeping
late, but Gladolia, upon being questioned, only shook her head, muttered something, and turned
the whites of her eyes up to the ceiling. I was glad when the meal was over and hurried to
the library for another try at that story.

