There is nothing disappointing about the "Bal Bullier." It is all you expected it to be, and
more, too. Below you is a veritable whirlpool of girls and students--a vast sea of heads, and
a dazzling display of colors and lights and animation. Little shrieks and screams fill your
ears, as the orchestra crashes into the last page of a galop, quickening the pace until Yvonne's
little feet slip and her cheeks glow, and her eyes grow bright, and half her pretty golden
hair gets smashed over her impudent little nose. Then the galop is brought up with a quick finish.

"Bis! Bis! Bis! Encore!" comes from every quarter of the big room, and the conductor, with
his traditional good-nature, begins again. He knows it is wiser to humor them, and off they
go again, still faster, until all are out of breath and rush into the garden for a breath of
cool air and a "citron glacé."

And what a pretty garden it is!--full of beautiful trees and dotted with round iron tables,
and laid out in white gravel walks, the garden sloping gently back to a fountain, and a grotto
and an artificial cascade all in one, with a figure of Venus in the center, over which the
water splashes and trickles. There is a green lattice proscenium, too, surrounding the fountain,
illuminated with colored lights and outlined in tiny flames of gas, and grotto-like alcoves
circling the garden, each with a table and room for two. The ball-room from the garden presents
a brilliant contrast, as one looks down upon it from under the trees.

But the orchestra has given its signal--a short bugle call announcing a quadrille; and those
in the garden are running down into the ball-room to hunt up their partners.

The "Bullier" orchestra will interest you; they play with a snap and fire and a tempo that
is irresistible. They have played together so long that they have become known as the best
of all the bal orchestras.

The leader, too, is interesting--tall and gaunt, with wild, deep-sunken eyes resembling those
of an old eagle. Now and then he turns his head slowly as he leads, and rests these keen, penetrating
orbs on the sea of dancers below him. Then, with baton raised above his head, he brings his
orchestra into the wild finale of the quadrille--piccolos and clarinets, cymbals, bass viols,
and violins--all in one mad race to the end, but so well trained that not a note is lost in
the scramble--and they finish under the wire to a man, amid cheers from Mimi and Céleste and
"encores" and "bis's" from every one else who has breath enough left to shout with.

Often after an annual dinner of one of the ateliers, the entire body of students will march
into the "Bullier," three hundred strong, and take a good-natured possession of the place.
There have been some serious demonstrations in the Quarter by the students, who can form a
small army when combined. But as a rule you will find them a good-natured lot of fellows, who
are out for all the humor and fun they can create at the least expense.

But in June, 1893, a serious demonstration by the students occurred, for these students can
fight as well as dance. Senator Beranger, having read one morning in the "Courrier Français"
an account of the revelry and nudity of several of the best-known models of the Quarter at
the "Quat'z' Arts" ball, brought a charge against the organizers of the ball, and several of
the models, whose beauty unadorned had made them conspicuous on this most festive occasion.
At the ensuing trial, several celebrated beauties and idols of the Latin Quarter were convicted
and sentenced to a short term of imprisonment, and fined a hundred francs each. These sentences
were, however, remitted, but the majority of the students would not have it thus, and wanted
further satisfaction. A mass meeting was held by them in the Place de la Sorbonne. The police
were in force there to stop any disturbance, and up to 10 o'clock at night the crowd was held
in control.

It was a warm June night, and every student in the Quarter was keyed to a high state of excitement.
Finally a great crowd of students formed in front of the Café d'Harcourt, opposite the Sorbonne;
things were at fever heat; the police became rough; and in the row that ensued, somebody hurled
one of the heavy stone match-safes from a café table at one of the policemen, who in his excitement
picked it up and hurled it back into the crowd. It struck and injured fatally an innocent outsider,
who was taken to the Charity Hospital, in the rue Jacob, and died there.

On the following Monday another mass meeting of students was held in the Place de la Sorbonne,
who, after the meeting, formed in a body and marched to the Chamber of Deputies, crying: "Conspuez
Dupuy," who was then president of the Chamber. A number of deputies came out on the portico
and the terrace, and smilingly reviewed the demonstration, while the students hurled their
anathemas at them, the leaders and men in the front rank of this howling mob trying to climb
over the high railing in front of the terrace, and shouting that the police were responsible
for the death of one of their comrades.

The Government, fearing further trouble and wishing to avoid any disturbance on the day of
the funeral of the victim of the riot in the Place Sorbonne, deceived the public as to the
hour when it would occur. This exasperated the students so that they began one of those demonstrations
for which Paris is famous. By 3 P.M. the next day the Quartier Latin was in a state of siege--these
poets and painters and sculptors and musicians tore up the rue Jacob and constructed barricades
near the hospital where their comrade had died. They tore up the rue Bonaparte, too, at the
Place St. Germain des Prés, and built barricades, composed of overturned omnibuses and tramcars
and newspaper booths. They smashed windows and everything else in sight, to get even with the
Government and the smiling deputies and the murderous police--and then the troops came, and
the affair took a different turn. In three days thirty thousand troops were in Paris--principally
cavalry, many of the regiments coming from as far away as the center of France.

With these and the police and the Garde Républicaine against them, the students melted away
like a handful of snow in the sun; but the demonstrations continued spasmodically for two or
three days longer, and the little crooked streets, like the rue du Four, were kept clear by
the cavalry trotting abreast--in and out and dodging around corners--their black horse-tail
plumes waving and helmets shining. It is sufficient to say that the vast army of artists and
poets were routed to a man and driven back into the more peaceful atmosphere of their studios.

But the "Bullier" is closing and the crowd is pouring out into the cool air. I catch a glimpse
of Yvonne with six students all in one fiacre, but Yvonne has been given the most comfortable
place. They have put her in the hood, and the next instant they are rattling away to the Panthéon
for supper.

If you walk down with the rest, you will pass dozens of jolly groups singing and romping and
dancing along down the "Boul' Miche" to the taverne, for a bock and some écrivisse. With youth,
good humor, and a "louis," all the world seems gay!

CHAPTER IV

BAL DES QUAT'Z' ARTS

Of all the balls in Paris, the annual "Bal des Quat'z' Arts" stands unique. This costume ball
is given every year, in the spring, by the students of the different ateliers, each atelier
vying with the others in creation of the various floats and cortéges, and in the artistic effect
and historical correctness of the costumes.

The first "Quat'z' Arts" ball was given in 1892. It was a primitive affair, compared with the
later ones, but it was a success, and immediately the "Quat'z' Arts" Ball was put into the
hands of clever organizers, and became a studied event in all its artistic sense. Months are
spent in the creation of spectacles and in the costuming of students and models. Prizes are
given for the most successful organizations, and a jury composed of painters and sculptors
passes upon your costume as you enter the ball, and if you do not come up to their artistic
standard you are unceremoniously turned away. Students who have been successful in getting
into the "Quat'z' Arts" for years often fail to pass into this bewildering display of beauty
and brains, owing to their costume not possessing enough artistic originality or merit to pass
the jury.

It is, of course, a difficult matter for one who is not an enrolled member of one of the great
ateliers of painting, architecture, or sculpture to get into the "Quat'z' Arts," and even after
one's ticket is assured, you may fail to pass the jury.

Imagine this ball, with its procession of moving tableaux. A huge float comes along, depicting
the stone age and the primitive man, every detail carefully studied from the museums. Another
represents the last day of Babylon. One sees a nude captive, her golden hair and white flesh
in contrast with the black velvet litter on which she is bound, being carried by a dozen stalwart
blackamoors, followed by camels bearing nude slaves and the spoils of a captured city.

As the ball continues until daylight, it resembles a bacchanalian fête in the days of the Romans.
But all through it, one is impressed by its artistic completeness, its studied splendor, and
permissible license, so long as a costume (or the lack of it) produces an artistic result.
One sees the mise en scène of a barbaric court produced by the architects of an atelier, all
the various details constructed from carefully studied sketches, with maybe a triumphal throne
of some barbaric king, with his slaves, the whole costumed and done in a studied magnificence
that takes one's breath away. Again an atelier of painters may reproduce the frieze of the
Parthenon in color; another a float or a decoration, suggesting the works of their master.

The room becomes a thing of splendor, for it is as gorgeous a spectacle as the cleverest of
the painters, sculptors, and architects can make it, and is the result of careful study--and
all for the love of it!--for the great "Quat'z' Arts" ball is an event looked forward to for
months. Special instructions are issued to the different ateliers while the ball is in preparation,
and the following one is a translation in part from the notice issued before the great ball
of '99. As this is a special and private notice to the atelier, its contents may be interesting:

                                      BAL DES QUAT'Z' ARTS,
                                    Moulin Rouge, 21 April, 1899.

     Doors open at 10 P.M. and closed at midnight.

     The card of admission is absolutely personal, to be taken by the
     committee before the opening of the ball.

     The committee will be masked, and comrades without their personal
     card will be refused at the door. The cards must carry the name and
     quality of the artist, and bear the stamp of his atelier.

     Costumes are absolutely necessary. The soldier--the dress suit,
     black or in color--the monk--the blouse--the domino--kitchen
     boy--loafer--bicyclist, and other nauseous types, are absolutely
     prohibited.

     Should the weather be bad, comrades are asked to wait in their
     carriages, as the committee in control cannot, under any pretext,
     neglect guarding the artistic effect of the ball during any
     confusion that might ensue.

     A great "feed" will take place in the grand hall; the buffet will
     serve as usual individual suppers and baskets for two persons.

     The committee wish especially to bring the attention of their
     comrades to the question of women, whose cards of admission
     must be delivered as soon as possible, so as to enlarge their
     attendance--always insufficient.

     Prizes (champagne) will be distributed to the ateliers who may
     distinguish themselves by the artistic merit and beauty of their
     female display.

     All the women who compete for these prizes will be assembled on
     the grand staircase before the orchestra. The nude, as always, is
     PROHIBITED!?!

     The question of music at the head of the procession is of the
     greatest importance, and those comrades who are musical will please
     give their names to the delegates of the ateliers. Your good-will
     in this line is asked for--any great worthless capacity in this
     line will do, as they always play the same tune, "Les Pompiers!"

                                             THE COMMITTEE--1899.

For days before the "Quat'z' Arts" ball, all is excitement among the students, who do as little
work as possible and rest themselves for the great event. The favorite wit of the different
ateliers is given the task of painting the banner of the atelier, which is carried at the head
of the several cortéges. One of these, in Bouguereau's atelier, depicted their master caricatured
as a cupid.

The boys once constructed an elephant with oriental trappings--an elephant that could wag his
ears and lift his trunk and snort--and after the two fellows who formed respectfully the front
and hind legs of this knowing beast had practised sufficiently to proceed with him safely,
at the head of a cortége of slave girls, nautch dancers, and manacled captives, the big beast
created a success in the procession at the "Quat'z' Arts" ball.

After the ball, in the gray morning light, they marched it back to the atelier, where it remained
for some weeks, finally becoming such a nuisance, kicking around the atelier and getting in
everybody's way, that the boys agreed to give it to the first junk-man that came around. But
as no junk-man came, and as no one could be found to care for its now sadly battered hulk,
its good riddance became a problem. What to do with the elephant! that was the question.

At last the two, who had sweltered in its dusty frame that eventful night of the "Quat'z' Arts,"
hit upon an idea. They marched it one day up the Boulevard St. Germain to the Café des deux
Magots, followed by a crowd of people, who, when it reached the café, assembled around it,
every one asking what it was for--or rather what it was?--for the beast had by now lost much
of the resemblance of its former self. When half the street became blocked with the crowd,
the two wise gentlemen crawled out of its fore and aft, and quickly mingled, unnoticed, with
the bystanders. Then they disappeared in the crowd, leaving the elephant standing in the middle
of the street. Those who had been expecting something to happen--a circus or the rest of the
parade to come along--stood around for a while, and then the police, realizing that they had
an elephant on their hands, carted the thing away, swearing meanwhile at the atelier and every
one connected with it.

The cafés near the Odéon, just before the beginning of the ball, are filled with students in
costume; gladiators hobnob at the tables with savages in scanty attire--Roman soldiers and
students, in the garb of the ancients, strut about or chat in groups, while the uninvited grisettes
and models, who have not received invitations from the committee, implore them for tickets.

Tickets are not transferable, and should one present himself at the entrance of the ball with
another fellow's ticket, he would run small chance of entering.

"What atelier?" commands the jury "Cormon."

The student answers, while the jury glance at his makeup.

"To the left!" cries the jury, and you pass in to the ball.

But if you are unknown they will say simply, "Connais-pas! To the right!" and you pass down
a long covered alley--confident, if you are a "nouveau," that it leads into the ball-room--until
you suddenly find yourself in the street, where your ticket is torn up and all hope of entering
is gone.

It is hopeless to attempt to describe the hours until morning of this annual artistic orgy.
As the morning light comes in through the windows, it is strange to see the effect of diffused
daylight, electricity, and gas--the bluish light of early morning reflected on the flesh tones--upon
nearly three thousand girls and students in costumes one might expect to see in a bacchanalian
feast, just before the fall of Rome. Now they form a huge circle, the front row sitting on
the floor, the second row squatting, the third seated in chairs, the fourth standing, so that
all can see the dancing that begins in the morning hours--the wild impromptu dancing of the
moment. A famous beauty, her black hair bound in a golden fillet with a circle wrought in silver
and studded with Oriental turquoises clasping her superb torso, throws her sandals to the crowd
and begins an Oriental dance--a thing of grace and beauty--fired with the intensity of the
innate nature of this beautifully modeled daughter of Bohemia.

As the dance ends, there is a cry of delight from the great circle of barbarians. "Long live
the Quat'z' Arts!" they cry, amid cheers for the dancer.

The ball closes about seven in the morning, when the long procession forms to return to the
Latin Quarter, some marching, other students and girls in cabs and on top of them, many of
the girls riding the horses. Down they come from the "Moulin Rouge," shouting, singing, and
yelling. Heads are thrust out of windows, and a volley of badinage passes between the fantastic
procession and those who have heard them coming.

Finally the great open court of the Louvre is reached--here a halt is made and a general romp
occurs. A girl and a type climb one of the tall lamp-posts and prepare to do a mid-air balancing
act, when rescued by the others. At last, at the end of all this horse-play, the march is resumed
over the Pont du Carrousel and so on, cheered now by those going to work, until the Odéon is
reached. Here the odd procession disbands; some go to their favorite cafés where the festivities
are continued--some to sleep in their costumes or what remains of them, wherever fortune lands
them--others to studios, where the gaiety is often kept up for days.

Ah! but life is not all "couleur de rose" in this true Bohemia.

"One day," says little Marguerite (she who lives in the rue Monge), "one eats and the next
day one doesn't. It is always like that, is it not, monsieur?--and it costs so much to live,
and so you see, monsieur, life is always a fight."

And Marguerite's brown eyes swim a little and her pretty mouth closes firmly.

"But where is Paul?" I ask.

"I do not know, monsieur," she replies quietly; "I have not seen him in ten days--the atelier
is closed--I have been there every day, expecting to find him--he left no word with his concierge.
I have been to his café too, but no one has seen him--you see, monsieur, Paul does not love me!"

I recall an incident that I chanced to see in passing the little shop where Marguerite works,
that only confirms the truth of her realization. Paul had taken Marguerite back to the little
shop, after their déjeuner together, and, as I passed, he stopped at the door with her, kissed
her on both cheeks, and left her; but before they had gone a dozen paces, they ran back to
embrace again. This occurred four times, until Paul and Marguerite finally parted. And, as
he watched her little heels disappear up the wooden stairs to her work-room above, Paul blew
a kiss to the pretty milliner at the window next door, and, taking a long whiff of his cigarette,
sauntered off in the direction of his atelier whistling.

It is ideal, this student life with its student loves of four years, but is it right to many
an honest little comrade, who seldom knows an hour when she is away from her ami? who has suffered
and starved and slaved with him through years of days of good and bad luck--who has encouraged
him in his work, nursed him when ill, and made a thousand golden hours in this poet's or painter's
life so completely happy, that he looks back on them in later life as never-to-be-forgotten?
He remembers the good dinners at the little restaurant near his studio, where they dined among
the old crowd. There were Lavaud the sculptor and Francine, with the figure of a goddess; Moreau,
who played the cello at the opera; little Louise Dumont, who posed at Julian's, and old Jacquemart,
the very soul of good fellowship, who would set them roaring with his inimitable humor.

What good dinners they were!--and how long they sat over their coffee and cigarettes under
the trees in front of this little restaurant--often ten and twelve at a time, until more tables
had to be pushed together for others of their good friends, who in passing would be hailed
to join them. And how Marguerite used to sing all through dinner and how they would all sing,
until it grew so late and so dark that they had to puff their cigarettes aglow over their plates,
and yell to Madame Giraud for a light! And how the old lady would bustle out with the little
oil lamp, placing it in the center of the long table amid the forest of vin ordinaires, with
a "Voilà, mes enfants!" and a cheery word for all these good boys and girls, whom she regarded
quite as her own children.

It seemed to them then that there would never be anything else but dinners at Madame Giraud's
for as many years as they pleased, for no one ever thought of living out one's days, except
in this good Bohemia of Paris. They could not imagine that old Jacquemart would ever die, or
that La Belle Louise would grow old, and go back to Marseilles, to live with her dried-up old
aunt, who sold garlic and bad cheese in a little box of a shop, up a crooked street! Or that
Francine would marry Martin, the painter, and that the two would bury themselves in an adorable
little spot in Brittany, where they now live in a thatched farm-house, full of Martin's pictures,
and have a vegetable garden of their own--and a cow--and some children! But they DID!

And those memorable dinners in the old studio back of the Gare Montparnasse! when paints and
easels were pushed aside, and the table spread, and the piano rolled up beside it. There was
the buying of the chicken, and the salad that Francine would smother in a dressing into which
she would put a dozen different things--herbs and spices and tiny white onions! And what a
jolly crowd came to these impromptu feasts! How much noise they used to make! How they danced
and sang until the gray morning light would creep in through the big skylight, when all these
good bohemians would tiptoe down the waxed stairs, and slip past the different ateliers for
fear of waking those painters who might be asleep--a thought that never occurred to them until
broad daylight, and the door had been opened, after hours of pandemonium and music and noise!

In a little hotel near the Odéon, there lived a family of just such bohemians--six struggling
poets, each with an imagination and a love of good wine and good dinners and good times that
left them continually in a state of bankruptcy! As they really never had any money--none that
ever lasted for more than two days and two nights at the utmost, their good landlord seldom
saw a sou in return for his hospitable roof, which had sheltered these six great minds who
wrote of the moon, and of fate, and fortune, and love.

For days they would dream and starve and write. Then followed an auction sale of the total
collection of verses, hawked about anywhere and everywhere among the editeurs, like a crop
of patiently grown fruit. Having sold it, literally by the yard, they would all saunter up
the "Boul' Miche," and forget their past misery, in feasting, to their hearts' content, on
the good things of life. On days like these, you would see them passing, their black-brimmed
hats adjusted jauntily over their poetic locks--their eyes beaming with that exquisite sense
of feeling suddenly rich, that those who live for art's sake know! The keenest of pleasures
lie in sudden contrasts, and to these six poetic, impractical Bohemians, thus suddenly raised
from the slough of despond to a state where they no longer trod with mortals--their cup of
happiness was full and spilling over. They must not only have a good time, but so must every
one around them. With their great riches, they would make the world gay as long as it lasted,
for when it was over they knew how sad life would be. For a while--then they would scratch
away--and have another auction!

Unlike another good fellow, a painter whom I once knew, who periodically found himself without
a sou, and who would take himself, in despair, to his lodgings, make his will, leaving most
of his immortal works to his English aunt, go to bed, and calmly await death! In a fortunate
space of time his friends, who had been hunting for him all over the Quarter, would find him
at last and rescue him from his chosen tomb; or his good aunt, fearing he was ill, would send
a draft! Then life would, to this impractical philosopher, again become worth living. He would
dispatch a "petit bleu" to Marcelle; and the two would meet at the Café Cluny, and dine at
La Perruse on filet de sole au vin blanc, and a bottle of Haut Barsac--the bottle all cobwebs
and cradled in its basket--the garçon, as he poured its golden contents, holding his breath
meanwhile lest he disturb its long slumber.

There are wines that stir the soul, and this was one of them--clear as a topaz and warming
as the noonday sun--the same warmth that had given it birth on its hillside in Bordeaux, as
far back as '82. It warmed the heart of Marcelle, too, and made her cheeks glow and her eyes
sparkle--and added a rosier color to her lips. It made her talk--clearly and frankly, with
a full and a happy heart, so that she confessed her love for this "bon garçon" of a painter,
and her supreme admiration for his work and the financial success he had made with his art.
All of which this genial son of Bohemia drank in with a feeling of pride, and he would swell
out his chest and curl the ends of his long mustache upwards, and sigh like a man burdened
with money, and secure in his ability and success, and with a peaceful outlook into the future--and
the fact that Marcelle loved him of all men! They would linger long over their coffee and cigarettes,
and then the two would stroll out under the stars and along the quai, and watch the little
Seine boats crossing and recrossing, like fireflies, and the lights along the Pont Neuf reflected
deep down like parti-colored ribbons in the black water.

CHAPTER V

"A DÉJEUNER AT LAVENUE'S"

If you should chance to breakfast at "Lavenue's," or, as it is called, the "Hôtel de France
et Bretagne," for years famous as a rendezvous of men celebrated in art and letters, you will
be impressed first with the simplicity of the three little rooms forming the popular side of
this restaurant, and secondly with the distinguished appearance of its clientèle.

As you enter the front room, you pass good Mademoiselle Fanny at the desk, a cheery, white-capped,
genial old lady, who has sat behind that desk for forty years, and has seen many a "bon garçon"
struggle up the ladder of fame--from the days when he was a student at the Beaux-Arts, until
his name became known the world over. It has long been a favorite restaurant with men like
Rodin, the sculptor--and Colin, the painter--and the late Falguière--and Jean Paul Laurens
and Bonnat, and dozens of others equally celebrated--and with our own men, like Whistler and
Sargent and Harrison, and St. Gaudens and Macmonnies.

These three plain little rooms are totally different from the "other side," as it is called,
of the Maison Lavenue. Here one finds quite a gorgeous café, with a pretty garden in the rear,
and another room--opening into the garden--done in delicate green lattice and mirrors. This
side is far more expensive to dine in than the side with the three plain little rooms, and
the gentlemen with little red ribbons in their buttonholes; but as the same good cook dispenses
from the single big kitchen, which serves for the dear and the cheap side the same good things
to eat at just half the price, the reason for the popularity of the "cheap side" among the
crowd who come here daily is evident.

It is a quiet, restful place, this Maison Lavenue, and the best place I know in which to dine
or breakfast from day to day. There is an air of intime and cosiness about Lavenue's that makes
one always wish to return.

You will see a family of rich bourgeois enter, just in from the country, for the Montparnasse
station is opposite. The fat, sunburned mama, and the equally rotund and genial farmer-papa,
and the pretty daughter, and the newly married son and his demure wife, and the two younger
children--and all talking and laughing over a good dinner with champagne, and many toasts to
the young couple--and to mama and papa, and little Josephine--with ices, and fruit, and coffee,
and liqueur to follow.

All these you will see at Lavenue's on the "cheap side"--and the beautiful model, too, who
poses for Courbel, who is breakfasting with one of the jeunesse of Paris. The waiters after
2 P.M. dine in the front room with the rest, and jump up now and then to wait on madame and
monsieur.

It is a very democratic little place, this popular side of the house of M. Lavenue, founded
in 1854.

And there is a jolly old painter who dines there, who is also an excellent musician, with an
ear for rhythm so sensitive that he could never go to sleep unless the clock in his studio
ticked in regular time, and at last was obliged to give up his favorite atelier, with its picturesque
garden----

"For two reasons, monsieur," he explained to me excitedly; "a little girl on the floor below
me played a polka--the same polka half the day--always forgetting to put in the top note; and
the fellow over me whistled it the rest of the day and put in the top note false; and so I
moved to the rue St. Pères, where one only hears, within the cool court-yard, the distant hum
of the busy city. The roar of Paris, so full of chords and melody! Listen to it sometimes,
monsieur, and you will hear a symphony!"

And Mademoiselle Fanny will tell you of the famous men she has known for years, and how she
has found the most celebrated of them simple in their tastes, and free from ostentation--"in
fact it is always so, is it not, with les hommes célèbres? C'est toujours comme ça, monsieur,
toujours!" and mentions one who has grown gray in the service of art and can count his decorations
from half a dozen governments. Madame will wax enthusiastic--her face wreathed in smiles. "Ah!
he is a bon garçon; he always eats with the rest, for three or four francs, never more! He
is so amiable, and, you know, he is very celebrated and very rich"; and madame will not only
tell you his entire history, but about his work--the beauty of his wife and how "aimables"
his children are. Mademoiselle Fanny knows them all.

But the men who come here to lunch are not idlers; they come in, many of them, fresh from a
hard morning's work in the studio. The tall sculptor opposite you has been at work, since his
morning coffee, on a group for the government; another, bare-armed and in his flannel shirt,
has been building up masses of clay, punching and modeling, and scraping away, all the morning,
until he produces, in the rough, the body of a giantess, a huge caryatide that is destined,
for the rest of her existence, to hold upon her broad shoulders part of the façade of an American
building. The "giantess" in the flesh is lunching with him--a Juno-like woman of perhaps twenty-five,
with a superb head well poised, her figure firm and erect. You will find her exceedingly interesting,
quiet, and refined, and with a knowledge of things in general that will surprise you, until
you discover she has, in her life as a model, been thrown daily in conversation with men of
genius, and has acquired a smattering of the knowledge of many things--of art and literature--of
the theater and its playwrights--plunging now and then into medicine and law and poetry--all
these things she has picked up in the studios, in the cafés, in the course of her Bohemian
life. This "vernis," as the French call it, one finds constantly among the women here, for
their days are passed among men of intelligence and ability, whose lives and energy are surrounded
and encouraged by an atmosphere of art.

In an hour, the sculptor and his Juno-like model will stroll back to the studio, where work
will be resumed as long as the light lasts.

The painter breakfasting at the next table is hard at work on a decorative panel for a ceiling.
It is already laid out and squared up, from careful pencil drawings. Two young architects are
working for him, laying out the architectural balustrade, through which one, a month later,
looks up at the allegorical figures painted against the dome of the blue heavens, as a background.
And so the painter swallows his eggs, mayonnaise, and demi of beer, at a gulp, for he has a
model coming at two, and he must finish this ceiling on time, and ship it, by a fast liner,
to a millionaire, who has built a vault-like structure on the Hudson, with iron dogs on the
lawn. Here this beautiful panel will be unrolled and installed in the dome of the hard-wood
billiard-room, where its rich, mellow scheme of color will count as naught; and the cupids
and the flesh-tones of the chic little model, who came at two, will appear jaundiced; and Aunt
Maria and Uncle John, and the twins from Ithaca, will come in after the family Sunday dinner
of roast beef and potatoes and rice pudding and ice-water, and look up into the dome and agree
"it's grand." But the painter does not care, for he has locked up his studio, and taken his
twenty thousand francs and the model--who came at two--with him to Trouville.

At night you will find a typical crowd of Bohemians at the Closerie des Lilas, where they sit
under a little clump of trees on the sloping dirt terrace in front. Here you will see the true
type of the Quarter. It is the farthest up the Boulevard St. Michel of any of the cafés, and
just opposite the "Bal Bullier," on the Place de l'Observatoire. The terrace is crowded with
its habitués, for it is out of the way of the stream of people along the "Boul' Miche." The
terrace is quite dark, its only light coming from the café, back of a green hedge, and it is
cool there, too, in summer, with the fresh night air coming from the Luxembourg Gardens. Below
it is the café and restaurant de la Rotonde, a very well-built looking place, with its rounding
façade on the corner.

