MYSTERIES OF PARIS

By EUGENE SUE

VOLUME THREE

PART III.

NIGHT.

CHAPTER I.

IN THE NOTARY'S OFFICE.

Brain, or heart of the land, which you will, as large cities are, Paris may claim to have nerves,
muscles, and arteries centering in it, which but few capitals, by right of size, passions,
horrors, loves, charms, mysteries, in a word, can reveal. To trace its emotions, impulses,
secrets, wounds, cankers, joys, the following pages are devoted.

We must begin by taking up the further ends of threads which will soon lead us deep into its
labyrinths, not without events on the way, only surpassed by those we shall meet in the mazes
themselves.

In the year 1819, a singular project, incited by the current stories of left-handed marriages
and loving episodes, as in the case of the Prince of Capua and Miss Penelope Smith, was put
into operation by one Sarah Seyton, widow of the Earl of M'Gregor. Her brother, the Honorable
Tom Seyton, assisted her to the utmost, fully prepared to aid his sister in matrimonially entangling
any crown-wearer whomsoever; he was perfectly willing to participate with her in all the schemes
and intrigues that might be useful toward the success of her endeavor to become the wife of
a sovereign, however humble in possessions and power; but he would far rather have killed the
sister whom he so devotedly loved, than he would have seen her become the mistress of a prince,
even with the certainty of a subsequent marriage in reparation.

The matrimonial inventory drawn up by Tom, with the aid of the Almanach de Gotha, had a very
satisfactory aspect. The Germanic Confederation, especially, furnished a numerous contingency
of young presumptive sovereigns, the first to whom the adventurers meant to pay attention being
thus designated in the diplomatic and infallible Almanac of Gotha for the year of 1819:

        Genealogy of the Sovereigns of Europe and their Families.

                                GEROLSTEIN.

         Grand-Duke MAXIMILIAN RUDOLPH, born December 10th, 1764.
     Succeeded his father, CHARLES FREDERIC RUDOLPH, April 21st 1785.
         Widower January, 1808, of Louisa, daughter of Prince JOHN
                           AUGUSTUS of Burglen.

                                   SON,

                 GUSTAVUS RUDOLPH, born April 17th, 1803.

                                  MOTHER,

           Grand-Duchess JUDITH, dowager widow of the Grand-Duke

                CHARLES FREDERIC RUDOLPH, April 21st, 1785.

Tom had sense enough to inscribe first on his list the youngest of the princes whom he desired
for his brother-in-law, thinking that extreme youth was more easily seduced than riper age.

The Countes M'Gregor was not only favored with the introduction of the Marquis d'Harville (a
friend of the grand-duke, to whom he had rendered great services in 1815, and a little of a
suitor of the lady's while she was in Paris) and of the British Ambassador in Paris, but with
that of her own personal appearance. To rare beauty and a singular aptitude of acquiring various
accomplishments, was added a seductiveness all the more dangerous, because she possessed a
mind unbending and calculating, a disposition cunning and selfish, a deep hypocrisy, a stubborn
and despotic will--all hidden under the specious gloss of a generous, warm, and impassioned
nature. Physically her organization was as deceptive as it was morally. Her large black eyes--which,
by turns languished and beamed with beauty beneath their ebon lashes--could feign to admiration
all the kindling fires of voluptuousness. And yet, the burning impulses of love beat not in
her frozen bosom; never could a surprise of either the heart or the senses disturb the stern
and pitiless schemes of this intriguing, egotistical, and ambitious girl.

Fortunately for her, her plans were assisted by one Dr. Polidori, a learned but hypocritical
man, who hoped to be the future Richelieu over the puppet he trusted to convert Prince Rudolph
into. The lady and her brother combined with Polidori against the youthful prince, whose only
ally was his true friend, an English baronet, Sir Walter Murphy.

The Countess M'Gregor drove things to the end, and, during a brief absence of the grand-duke,
was secretly married to Prince Rudolph. In time, about to become a mother, the artful woman
began to clamor for an acknowledgment of the union. She braved exposure, hoping to force the
prince into giving her the station she sought. All was discovered, easily, therefore. But the
old duke was all-powerful within his realm: the clandestine union was pronounced null and void,
and the countess expelled. Her latest act of vengeance was to inform Rudolph that their child
had died. This was in 1827. But this assurance was on a par with her former falseness: the
child, a girl, was handed over to Jacques Ferrand, a miserly notary in Paris, whose housekeeper
got rid of it to a rogue known as Pierre Tournemine. When he at last ran to the end of his
tether, and was sentenced to imprisonment in the Rochefort-hulks for forgery, he induced a
woman called Gervais, but nicknamed the Screech-Owl (Chouette), to take the girl, now five
or six years old, who brought the little creature up in the midst of as much cruelty as degradation.

Meanwhile the countess nursed the idea of wedding Prince Rudolph in a more secure manner. When,
in time, he became grand-duke, she was more eager than ever to enjoy what she considered her
own. Though he had married, she hoped; and, the second wife having died childless, the Countess
M'Gregor followed Rudolph into Prance, where he traveled incognito as Count Duren. As a last
resort to force the grand-duke into her ambitious aims, she sought for a girl of the age that
her own would have been, to pass it off as their child. By chance, the woman to whom she applied
was La Chouette, and hardly had she spoken of the likeness which the counterfeit would have
to bear to the supposed suppressed child, than the woman recognized the very girl whom she
had kept for years by her, or in view.

Yes, the offspring of Prince Rudolph and the countess was a common girl of the town, known
as Fleur-de-Marie (the Virgin's Flower), for her touching religious beauty, as La Goualeuse
(the Songstress), for her vocal ability, and La Pegriotte (Little Thief), out of La Chouette's
anger that she would not be what she styled her.

She had long shunned her sad sisters in shame, and, indeed, in all her life had known but one
friend. This was a sewing-girl known as Rigolette, or Miss Dimpleton, from her continual smiles;
a maid with no strong ideas of virtue, but preserved from the miry path which poor Fleur-de-Marie
had been forced to use, merely by being too hard-worked to have leisure to be bad.

Prince Rudolph entertained the most profound aversion for the mother of his child, yet for
the latter he mourned still, fifteen or eighteen years after her reported decease. Weary of
life, save for doing good, he took a deep liking for playing the part of a minor providence,
be it said in all reverence.

Known to society as the grand-duke, otherwise Count Duren, he had humble lodgings in No. 7,
Rue du Temple, as a fan-painter, plain M. Rudolph. To mask the large sums which on occasion
he dispensed in charity, he was wont to give out that he was the agent of wealthy persons who
trusted him in their alms-giving.

Events brought him into immediate contact with Fleur-de-Marie, and Rigolette (who lived in
his own house in the Rue du Temple).

The former he had rescued from her wretchedness and provided with a home on a farm at Bouqueval,
whence she had been abducted by Chouette and comrades of hers, by orders of Jacques Ferrand,
who wanted her put out of the way.

The wretches who had undertaken to drown the girl with Ferrand's housekeeper (become dangerous
to him, as one aware of too many of his secrets) murdered the latter, but the former, swept
from their sight by the Seine's current, had been saved by a former prison-mate of hers, a
girl of twenty, so wild in manner as to have won the nickname of Louve (Wolf).

Snatched from death, the exhausted girl now lay, but a little this side of life's confines,
in the house of Dr. Griffon, at Asnieres, under his care and that of the Count of St. Remy,
two gentlemen who had seen her escape.

Rudolph was seeking her all this while, yet not so busily that he forgot his avenger's course.
Chief among social oppressors, whose cunning baffled the law, and verified the old saying of
"what is everybody's business is nobody's business," Jacques Ferrand stood.

He withheld a large sum of money, intrusted verbally to him, from its owner, the Baroness Fermont,
and impoverished her and her daughter; he had seduced his servant Louise Morel, caused her
imprisonment on a charge of child-murder, driving her father, a working jeweler, insane, and
menacing the destruction of the whole family--but Rudolph was at hand to support them.

His cashier, Francois Germain, also was in prison, thanks to him. The youth--who had saved
some money, and deposited it with a banker out of town--had no sooner heard that Louise Morel's
father was in debt (a means of Ferrand's triumph over the girl), than he gave her some of his
employer's money, thinking to replace it with his own immediately after. But while he was away
to draw the deficit from his banker's, the notary discovered the loss, and had him arrested
as a thief.

The notary, whose cunning had earned him a high reputation for honesty, strictness, and parsimony,
was, at this moment, therefore, at the climax of inward delight. His chief accomplice removed
(his only other being the Dr. Polidori already mentioned) he believed he had nothing to fear.
Louise Morel had been replaced by a new servant, much more tempting to a man of the notary's
sensual cravings than that first poor victim had been.

We usher the reader, at the clerks' breakfast-time, into the notary's gloomy office.

A thing unheard-of, stupendous, marvelous! instead of the meager and unattractive stew, brought
every morning to these young people by the departed housekeeper, Madame Seraphin, an enormous
cold turkey, served up on an old paper box, ornamented the middle of one of the tables of the
office, flanked by two loaves of bread, some Dutch cheese, and three bottles of sealed wine;
an old leaden inkstand, filled with a mixture of salt and pepper, served as a salt-cellar;
such was the bill of fare.

Each clerk, armed with his knife and a formidable appetite, awaited the hour of the feast with
hungry impatience; some of them were raging over the absence of the head clerk, without whom
they could not commence their breakfast pursuant to etiquette.

This radical change in the ordinary meals of the clerks of Jacques Ferrand announced an excessive
domestic revolution.

The following conversation, eminently Boeotian (if we may be allowed to borrow this word from
the witty writer who has made it popular), will throw some light upon this important question:

"Behold a turkey who never expected, when he entered into life, to appear at breakfast on the
table of our governor's quill-drivers!"

"Just so; when the governor entered on the life of a notary, in like manner he never expected
to give his clerks a turkey for breakfast."

"For this turkey is ours," cried Stump-in-the-Gutters, the office-boy, with greedy eyes.

"My friend you forget; this turkey must be a foreigner to you."

"And as a Frenchman, you should hate a foreigner."

"All that can be done is to give you the claws."

"Emblem of the velocity with which you run your errands."

"I think, at least, I have a right to the carcass," said the boy, murmuring.

"It might be granted; but you have no right to it, just as it was with the Charter of 1814,
which was only another carcass of liberty," said the Mirabeau of the office.

"Apropos of carcass," said one of the party. "May the soul of Mother Seraphin rest in peace!
for, since she was drowned, we are no longer condemned to eat her ever lasting hash!"

"And for a week past, the governor, instead of giving us a breakfast--"

"Allows us each forty sous a day."

"That is the reason I say: may her soul rest in peace."

"Exactly; for in her time, the old boy would never have given us the forty sous."

"It is enormous!"

"It is astonishing!"

"There is not an office in Paris--"

"In Europe."

"In the universe, where they give forty sous to a famishing clerk for his breakfast."

"Apropos of Madame Seraphin, which of you fellows has seen the new servant that takes her place?"

"The Alsatian girl whom Madame Pipelet, the porter's wife of No. 17, Rue du Temple, the house
where poor Louise lived, brought one evening?"

"Yes."

"I have not seen her yet."

"Nor I."

"Of course not; it is altogether impossible to see her, for the governor is more savage than
ever to prevent our entering the pavilion in the courtyard."

"And since the porter cleans the office now, how can one get a glimpse at his Mary?"

"Pooh! I have seen her."

"You?"

"Where was that?"

"How does she look?"

"Large or small?"

"Young or old?"

"I am sure, beforehand, that she has not so good-looking a face as poor Louise--that good girl?"

"Come, since you have seen her, how does this new servant look?"

"When I say I saw her, I have seen her cap--a very funny cap."

"What sort?"

"It was cherry color, and of velvet, I believe; something like those worn by the little broom
girls."

"Like the Alsatians? it is very natural, since she is an Alsatian."

"You don't say so!"

"But I do! what is it that surprises you? The burnt child shuns the fire!"

"Chalamel! what relation between your proverb and this cap?"

"There is none."

"Why did you say it, then?"

"Because a benefit is never lost, and the dog is a friend of man!"

"Hold! If Chalamel opens his budget of proverbs, which mean nothing, we are in for it. Come,
tell us what you know of this new servant."

"The day before yesterday I was out in the yard: she had her back toward one of the windows
of the ground-floor."

"The yard's back?"

"What stupidity! No, the servant's. The glasses are so dirty that I could see nothing of her
figure; but I could see her cherry-colored cap, and a profusion of curls, as black as jet;
for she wears her hair in short curls."

"I am sure that the governor would not have seen through his spectacles as much as you did;
for here you have one, as they say, who, if he remained alone with a woman on the earth, the
world would soon come to an end."

"That is not astonishing. He laughs best who laughs last, and, moreover, punctuality is the
politeness of kings."

"How wearisome Chalamel is when he lays himself out to it!"

"Tell me what company you keep, and I'll tell you what you are."

"Oh! how pretty!"

"As for me, I have an idea that it is superstition that stupefies the governor more and more."

"It is, perhaps, from penitence, that he gives us forty sous for our breakfast."

"The fact is, he must be crazy."

"Or sick."

"I think for the last two or three days he has been quite wild."

"Not that we see him so much. He who was, for our torment, in his cabinet from morning till
night, and always at our backs, now has not, for two days, put his nose into the office."

"That is the reason the head clerk has so much to do."

"And that we are obliged to die with hunger in waiting for him."

"What a change in the office."

"Poor Germain would be much astonished if any one should say to him, 'Only fancy, my boy, the
governor gives us forty sous for our breakfast;' 'Pshaw! it is impossible,' he would say. 'It
is so possible that he has announced it to me, Chalamel, in my own person.' 'You are jesting.'
'I jest! This is the way it occurred: during two or three days which followed the death of
Madame Seraphin, we had no breakfast at all. We liked that well enough, for no breakfast at
all was better than that she gave us; but, on the other hand, our luncheon cost us money. However,
we were patient, and said: "The governor has got no servant, no housekeeper, and when he gets
one, we shall have to live on hash again." It wasn't so, my poor Germain: the old fellow finally
employed a servant, and our breakfast was still buried in the river of oblivion. I was appointed
a sort of deputy, to present to the governor the complaints of the stomach; he was with the
principal clerk." I do not want to feed you in the morning," said he, in a gruff, surly tone;
"my servant has no time to prepare your breakfast." "But, sir, you are bound to give us our
morning meal." "Well, you may send out for your breakfast, and I will pay for it. How much
do you want?--forty sous each?" added he, with some other subject evidently upon his mind,
and mentioning, "forty sous," in the same manner that he would have said twenty sous, or a
hundred sous. "Yes, sir," I exclaimed, "forty sous, will do," catching the ball "on the fly."
"Let it be so," answered the notary; "the head clerk will take charge of the expense, and I
will settle with him." Thereupon the governor shut the door in my face.' You must confess,
gentleman that Germain would be astonished at the extraordinary liberality of the governor."

"Germain would say: 'The governor is out of his head.'"

"And forty sous a-head out of his pocket," said Chalamel.

"Well done! the first chemist was right who said: 'Bitter as Calomel!'"

"Seriously, I believe that the governor is sick."

"For ten days past, he is scarcely to be recognized. His cheeks are so hollow, that you might
thrust in your fist."

"And he is so absent-minded, that it is curious to see him. The other day he took off his glasses
to read a deed; his eyes were red as live coals."

"He was right; short reckonings make long friends."

"For heaven's sake, don't cut me with your saws. I tell you, gentlemen, that it is very singular.
It was upside down."

"Which was upside down?--the deed or the governor? It is singular, as you say. What the devil
was he doing in that position? I should think it would have given him the apoplexy, unless
his habits, as you say, have changed very suddenly."

"How wearisome you are, Chalamel! I mean that it was the deed which I presented wrong end foremost."

"How wild he must have been!"

"Not at all; he didn't even perceive it. He looked at it for ten minutes, with his bloodshot
eyes fixed upon it, and then he gave it back to me, saying: 'Quite correct.'"

"Still upside down?"

"Still."

"How could he have read the deed?"

"He couldn't, unless he can read upside down."

"No man can do that."

"He looked so gloomy and savage, that I dared not open my lips, and I went away as if nothing
had happened."

"I have got something to tell you. Four days ago I was in the office of the head clerk, and
in come one client, two clients, three clients, with whom the governor had made an appointment.
They waited impatiently, and requested me to go and rap at the door of the study. I rapped,
and, receiving no answer, I walked in."

"Well, what did you see?"

"M. Ferrand lying upon his arms, which were placed upon the table, and his bald head uncovered.
He did not stir."

"He was asleep, probably."

"I thought so. I approached him, and said: 'There are some clients outside, who wish to see
you.' He did not move. 'M. Ferrand!' No reply. At length I touched his shoulder, and he started
up as if the devil had bitten him. His motion was so sudden, that his big glasses fell off
from his nose, and I saw--you never can believe it--"

"Out with it. What did you see?"

"Tears!"

"Nonsense!"

"Isn't he a queer bird?"

"The governor weep! Get out of the way!"

"When you see him cry, ladybirds will play on the French horn!"

"And monkeys chew tobacco!"

"Pshaw! your nonsense won't prevent me from knowing what I saw with my own eyes. I tell you
I saw him as I have described."

"What! weeping?"

"Yes, weeping. And after that, he was wroth at being caught in such a lachrymose condition,
and sung out to me: 'Go away--go away!' 'But, sir.--' 'Go away, I tell you!' 'There are some
clients in the office, with whom you have made an appointment, sir, and--' 'I haven't the time
to see them. Let them go to the devil, and you with them.' Thereupon he arose, as furious as
he could be, and looked so much as if he would kick me out at the door, that I didn't wait
for the compliment, but hooked it, and told the clients to leave also. They didn't look greatly
pleased, I assure you; but for the reputation of the office, I told them that the governor
had caught the whooping-cough."

This conversation was now interrupted by the entrance of the principal clerk, who came in as
if pressed with business. His appearance was hailed by a general acclamation, and all eyes
were turned toward the turkey.

"Without being uncivil, my lord, I must say that you have detained us from breakfast for a
long time," said Chalamel. "You must look out, for the next time our appetites won't be under
such good control."

"It is not my fault, I assure you; I was more impatient than you are--the governor must be mad!"

"That's what I have been saying."

"But the madness of the governor ought not to keep us from eating."

"It should have the opposite effect."

"We can talk just as well with our mouths full."

"A thousand times better," said the office-boy.

Chalamel was carving the turkey, and he said to the principal clerk: "What reason have you
for thinking that the governor is crazy?"

"We were inclined to think that he had become perfectly stupid, when he agreed to give us forty
sous per head for our daily breakfast."

"I confess that I was as much surprised as you are, gentlemen; but it is a trifle, actually
a trifle, compared with what has just occurred."

"You don't say so!" said another.

"Is the notary crazy enough to invite us to dine every day, at his expense, at the Cadran-Bleu?"

"And give us tickets to the play, after dinner?"

"And after that, take us to the cafe, to round off with punch?"

"And after that a la--"

"Gentlemen, just as far as you please; but the scene which I have just observed is more frightful
than funny."

"Give us the scene, I beg of you."

"That's right; don't trouble yourself about the breakfast--we are all ears."

"And all jaws! I see through you, my pretties! while I am speaking, your teeth will be in motion,
and the turkey would be finished before my story. Be patient; I will reserve it for the dessert."

We do not know whether it was the goad of hunger or curiosity that stimulated the mastication
of the young limbs of the law, but the breakfast was so rapidly completed, that the moment
for the story arrived immediately.

Not to be surprised by the governor, they sent the office-boy, on whom the carcass and claws
of the turkey had been most liberally bestowed, as a sentry into the neighboring room.

The head clerk said to his colleagues, "In the first place, you must know that, for some days
past the porter has been alarmed about master's health. As the good man sits up very late,
he has seen M. Ferrand go down to the garden in the night in spite of the cold and rain, and
walk up and down rapidly. He ventured to leave his nest, and ask his master if he had need
of anything. The governor sent him to bed in such a tone that, since then, the porter has kept
himself quiet, and he will keep himself so always, as soon as he hears the governor descend
to the garden, which happens every night, no matter what weather."

"The old boy is, perhaps, a somnambulist?"

"Not probable; but such nocturnal promenades announce great agitation. I arrive at my story:
just now, I went in to get some signatures. At the moment I placed my hand on the lock, I thought
I heard some one speak. I stopped, and distinguished two or three dull cries, like stifled
sobs. After having hesitated to enter for a moment, fearing some misfortune, I opened the door."

"Well?"

"What did I see? The governor on his knees, on the floor."

"On his knees?"

"On the floor?"

"Yes, kneeling on the floor, his face in his hands and Us elbows on the seat of one of his
old arm-chairs."

"It is very plain. What fools we are! He is so bigoted, he was making an extra prayer."

"In any case, it would be a funny prayer! Nothing could be heard but stifled groans, only from
time to time he murmured, between his teeth, 'Lord, lord!' like a man in a state of despair.
Seeing this, I did not know whether I ought to remain or to retire."

"That would have been also my political opinion."

"I remained, therefore, very much embarrassed, when he rose and turned suddenly. He had between
his teeth an old pocket-handkerchief; his spectacles remained on the chair. In all my life
I have never seen such a face: he had the appearance of a lost soul. I drew back, alarmed--on
my word of honor, alarmed! Then he--"

"Caught you by the throat?"

"You are out there. He looked at me, at first, with a bewildered air; then, letting his handkerchief
fall, which he had, doubtless, gnawed and torn in grinding his teeth, he cried, throwing himself
into my arms, 'Oh! I am very unhappy!'"

"Draw it mild!"

"Fact! Well, in spite of his death's-head look, when he pronounced these words his voice was
so heart-rending--I would say, almost so soft--"

"So soft? Get out. There is not a rattle, nor Tom-cat with a cold, whose sounds would not be
music alongside his voice."

"It is possible; that did not prevent it from being so plaintive at that time that I felt myself
quite affected; so much the more as M. Ferrand is not habitually communicative. 'Sir,' said
I, 'I believe that.' 'Leave me! leave me!' he answered, interrupting me; 'to tell your sufferings
to another is a great solace.' Evidently he took me for some one else."

"So familiar? Then you owe us two bottles of Bordeaux:

  "'When one's master is not proud
    One must freely treat the crowd.'

It is the proverb that speaks; it is sacred. Proverbs are the wisdom of a nation."

"Come, Chalamel, leave your proverbs alone. You comprehend, that, on hearing that, I at once
understood that he was mistaken, or that he was in a high fever. I disengaged myself, saying,
'Calm yourself! it is I.' Then he looked at me with a stupid look."

"Very well! now that sounds like the truth."

"His eyes were wild. 'Eh!' he answered. 'What is it?--who is there? what do you want with me?'
At each question he ran his hand over his face, as if to drive away the clouds which obscured
his thoughts."

"'Which obscured his thoughts!' Just as if it were written! Bravo, head clerk; we will make
a melodrama together:

  "'Who speaks so well, and so polite,
    A melodrama ought to write.'"

"Do hold your tongue, Chalamel. I know nothing about it; but what is sure is, that, when he
recovered his Senses, it was another song. He knit his brows in a terrible manner, and said
to me, with quickness, without giving me time to answer, 'What did you come here for?--have
you been a long time here?--can I not be alone in my own house without being surrounded by
spies?--what have I said?--what have you heard? Answer, answer.' He looked so wicked that I
replied, 'I have heard nothing, sir; I just came in.' 'You do not deceive me?' 'No, sir.' 'Well,
what do you want?' 'To ask for some signatures, sir.' 'Give me the papers.' And he began to
sign--without reading them, a half dozen notarial acts--he, who never put his flourish on an
act without spelling it, letter by letter, and twice over, from end to end. I remarked that,
from time to time, his hand slackened a little in the middle of his signature, as if he was
absorbed by a fixed idea, and then he resumed and signed quickly, in a convulsive manner. When
all were signed he told me to retire, and I heard him descend by the little staircase which
leads from his cabinet to the court."

"I now come back to this: what can the matter be with him?"

"Perhaps he regrets Madame Seraphin."

"Oh, yes! he regrets any one!"

"That reminds me of what the porter said: that the cure of Bonne-Nouvelle and his vicar had
called several times, and were not received. That is surprising."

"What I want to know is, what the carpenter and locksmith have been doing in the pavilion."

"The fact is, they have worked there for three days consecutively."

"And then one evening they brought some furniture here in a covered cart."

"I give it up! as sung the swan of Cambrai."

"It is perhaps remorse for having imprisoned Germain which torments him."

"Remorse--he? It is too hard, and too tough, as the eagle of Meau said."

"Fie, Chalamel!"

"Speaking of Germain, he is going to have famous recruits in his prison, poor fellow."

"How is that?"

"I read in the 'Gazette des Tribunaux' that the gang of robbers and assassins who have been
arrested by the Champs Elysees in one of those little subterranean taverns--"

"They are real caverns."

"That this band of scoundrels has been confined in La Force."

"Poor Germain, good society for him."

"Louise Morel will also have her part of the recruits; for in the band they say there is a
whole family, from father to son and mother to daughter."

"Then they will send the women to Saint Lazare, where Louise is."

"It is, perhaps, some of this band who have attempted the life of the countess who lives near
the Observatory, one of our clients. Has not master sent me often enough to know how she is?
He appears to be very much interested about her health. Only yesterday he sent me again to
inquire how Lady M'Gregor had passed the night."

"Well."

"Always uncertain: one day they hope, the next despair--they never know whether she will get
through the day; two days ago she was given up; but yesterday there was a ray of hope; what
complicates the matter is, she has a brain fever."

"Could you go into the house, and see where the deed was committed?"

"Oh! by no means! I could go no further than the gate, and the porter did not seem disposed
to walk much, not as ..."

"Here comes master," cried the boy, entering the office with the carcass. Immediately the young
men seated themselves at their respective desks, over which they bent, moving their pens, while
the boy deposited for a moment the turkey skeleton in a box filled with law papers.

Jacques Ferrand appeared.

Taking off his old silk cap, his red hair, mixed with gray, fell in disorder from each side
of his temples; some of the veins on his forehead seemed injected with blood, while his flat
face and hollow cheeks were of a livid paleness. The expression of his eyes could not be seen,
concealed as they were by his large green spectacles; but the visible alteration of his features
announced a consuming passion.

He crossed the office slowly, without saying a word to his clerks, without appearing to notice
their presence, entered the room of the head clerk, walked through it, as well as his own cabinet,
and descended immediately by the little staircase which led to the court. Jacques Ferrand having
left behind him all the doors open, the clerks could, with good reason, be astonished at the
extraordinary motions of their master, who came up one staircase and descended another, without
stopping in any of the chambers, which he had traversed mechanically.

The Countess M'Gregor, at least, was not his trouble. In showing La Chouette Fleur-de-Marie's
picture, she had exposed her jewels, and to secure them, the hag poniarded the lady and decamped.

CHAPTER II.

THOU SHALT NOT LUST.

It was night. The profound silence which reigned in the house occupied by Jacques Ferrand was
interrupted at intervals by the sighing of the wind, and by rain, which fell in torrents. These
melancholy sounds seemed to render still more complete the solitude of the dwelling. In a bed-chamber
on the first floor, very comfortably and newly furnished, and covered with a thick carpet,
a young woman was standing before an excellent fire.

What was very strange, in the center of the door, which was strongly bolted, and opposite the
bed, was placed a small wicket of about five or six inches square, which could be opened on
the outside.

A reflecting lamp cast an obscure light in this room, which was hung with garnet-colored silk;
the curtains of the bed, as also the covering of a large sofa, were of silk and worsted damask,
of the same color.

We are minute in these details of furniture, so recently imported into the dwelling of the
notary, because it announces a complete revolution in the habits of Jacques Ferrand, who, until
then was of Spartan avarice and meanness (above all as respected others) in all that concerned
living. It is then upon this garnet tapestry, a strong background, warm in color, on which
is delineated the picture we are going to paint.

Of tall and graceful stature, she is a quadroon in the flower of bloom and youth. The development
of her fine shoulders, and of her luxurious person, makes her waist appear so marvelously slender,
that one would believe that she might use her necklace for a girdle.

As simple as it is coquettish and provoking, her Alsatian costume is of strange taste, somewhat
theatrical, and thus more calculated for the effect that it was intended to produce.

Her spencer of black cassimere, half open on her swelling bosom, very long in the body, with
tight sleeves and plain back, is embroidered with purple wool on the seams, and trimmed with
a row of small chased silver buttons. A short petticoat of orange merino, which seems of exaggerated
amplitude, although it fits admirably on the contours of sculptural richness, allows a glance
at the charming leg of the Creole, in the scarlet stockings with blue clocks, just as it is
met with among the old Flemish painters, who show so complacently the garters of their robust
heroines.

Never did artist dream of an outline more pure than her limbs; strong and muscular above their
full calves, they terminated in a small foot, quite at ease, and well arched in its very small
shoe of black morocco with silver buckles. She is standing before the glass on the chimney-piece.
The slope of her spencer displays her elegant, graceful neck, of dazzling whiteness, but without
transparency.

Taking off her cherry-colored cap, to replace it by a Madras kerchief, the Creole displayed
her thick and magnificent hair of bluish black, which, divided in the middle of her forehead,
and naturally curled, descended no lower than the junction of the neck with the shoulders.
One must know the inimitable taste with which a Creole twists around her head these handkerchiefs,
to have an idea of the graceful appearance, and of the piquant contrast of this tissue, variegated
purple, azure, and orange, with her black hair, which, escaping from the close folds, surrounds
with its large, silky curls her pale, but plump and firm cheeks.

Her arms raised above her head, she finished, with her slender ivory fingers, arranging a large
bow, placed very low on the left side, almost on the ear. Her features are of the kind it is
impossible ever to forget.

A bold forehead, slightly projecting, surmounted a visage of perfect oval, her complexion of
a dead white, the satin-like freshness of a camellia imperceptibly touched by a ray of the
sun; her eyes of a size almost immoderate, have a singular expression, for the pupil, extremely
large, black, and brilliant, hardly allows the transparent pale blue of the eye ball to be
seen from the corners of her eyelids, fringed with long lashes; her chin is perfect; her nose,
fine and straight, is terminated by nostrils dilating at each emotion; her lovely impudent
mouth is of a lively red.

Let one imagine this pale face, with its sparkling black glances, its red, moist, and glossy
lips, which shine like wet coral.

Let us say that this tall Creole, slender, fleshy, strong and active as a panther, was the
type of that sensuality which is only lighted up by the fires of the tropics. Such was Cecily.

She was once the slave of a Louisiana planter, who designed her for his harem. Her lover, a
slave named David, resisted that design to the only gain of being flogged, while his loved
one was borne away. David was no common black; he had been educated in France, and was the
plantation surgeon. The story of this high-handed and twofold outrage reached Rudolph, whose
yacht was on the coast. The two were wedded in France, but Cecily, won away by a very bad man,
had become so evil, that her new life was a series of scandals. David would have killed her,
but Rudolph, whose physician he had worthily become, induced him to prefer her life-prisonment
in Germany. Out of her dungeon she was brought by Rudolph, who knew no fitter implement with
which to chastise the notary.

Her detestable predilections, for some time restrained by her real attachment for David, were
only developed in Europe; the civilization and climatical influence of the North had tempered
the violence, modified the expression. Instead of casting herself violently on her prey, and
thinking only, like her compeers, to destroy as soon as possible their life and fortune, Cecily,
fixing on her victims her magnetic glances, commenced by attracting them, little by little,
into the blazing whirlwind which seemed to emanate from her; then, seeing them lost, suffering
every torment of a tantalized craving, she amused herself by a refinement of coquetry, prolonging
their delirium; then, returning to her first instincts, she destroyed them in her homicidal
embrace. This was more horrible still.

The famished tiger, who springs upon and carries off the prey which he tears with wild roars,
inspires less horror than the serpent, which silently charms, attracts by degrees, twists in
inextricable folds the victim, feels it palpitate under its deadly stings, and seems to feed
upon its struggles with as much delight as upon its blood.

To the foregoing let there be joined an adroit, insinuating, quick mind--an intelligence so
marvelous, that in a year she spoke both French and German with the most extreme facility--sometimes
even with marked eloquence. Imagine, in fine, a corruption worthy of the courtesan queens of
ancient Rome, and audacity and courage above all proof, propensities, diabolical wickedness,
and one would have a correct idea of the new servant of Jacques Ferrand--the determined creature
who had dared to throw herself into the den of the wolf. And yet (singular anomaly) on learning
from M. de Graun the provoking platonic part which she was to play at the notary's and what
avenging ends were to be produced by her artifices, Cecily had promised to perform her part
with a will; or, rather, with a terrible hatred against Jacques Ferrand, being very indignant
at the recital of his having drugged Louise--a recital it was found necessary to make, in order
that she should be on her guard against the hypocritical attempts of the monster. Some retrospective
words concerning the latter personage are indispensable.

When Cecily was presented to him by Rudolph's intermediary, Madame Pipelet, as an orphan over
whom she wished to have no control, or care, the notary had, perhaps, been less struck with
the beauty of the Creole than fascinated by her irresistible glances, which, at the first interview,
lighted a fire which disturbed his reason.

This man, ordinarily with so much self-command, so calm, and cunning, forgot the cold calculations
of his profound dissimulation when the demon of lust obscured his mind. Besides he had no reason
to suspect the protegee of Madame Pipelet.

After her conversation with the latter, Madame Seraphin had proposed to Jacques Ferrand, to
take the place of Louise, a young girl almost without a home, for whom she would answer. The
notary had gladly accepted, in the hope of abusing, with impunity, the precarious and isolated
condition of his new servant. Finally, far from being suspicious, Jacques Ferrand found, in
the progress of events, new motives of security.

All responded to his wishes. The death of Madame Seraphin rid him of a dangerous accomplice.
The death of Fleur-de-Marie (he thought her dead) released him from the living proof of his
crime of child-stealing. He did not fear the Countess M'Gregor now that she was wounded, while
La Chouette was dead, as we have related.

We repeat, no sentiment of suspicion came to counterbalance in his mind the sudden, irresistible
impression which he had experienced at the sight of Cecily. He seized, with delight, the occasion
to receive into his solitary dwelling the pretended niece of Madame Pipelet.

The character, habits, antecedents of Jacques Ferrand known and stated, the provoking beauty
of the Creole, such as we have endeavored to paint it, some other facts which we will now expose,
will cause to be comprehended, we hope, the sudden frenzied passion of the notary for this
seductive and dangerous creature.

Although Jacques Ferrand was never to obtain the object of his wishes, the Creole was very
careful not to deprive him of all hope; but the vague and distant hopes which she rocked in
the cradle of so many caprices were for him only increased tortures, and riveted more solidly
still the burning chain he wore.

If any astonishment is felt that a man of such vigor and audacity had not had recourse to cunning
or violence to triumph over the calculated resistance of Cecily, it must not be forgotten that
Cecily was not a second Louise. Besides, the next day after her presentation to the notary,
she had played quite another part than the simple country lass, under whose semblance she had
been introduced to her master, or he would not have been the dupe of his servant for two consecutive
days.

Instructed of the fate of Louise by Baron de Graun, and knowing by what abominable means the
unfortunate daughter of Morel had become the prey of the notary, the Creole, entering into
this solitary house, had taken excellent precautions to pass the first night in security.

The evening of her arrival, remaining alone with Jacques Ferrand, who, in order not to alarm
her, affected hardly to look at her, and told her, roughly, to go to bed, she avowed innocently,
that at night she was very much afraid of thieves, but that she was strong, resolute, and ready
to defend herself.

"With what?" asked Jacques Ferrand.

"With this," answered the Creole, drawing from the ample woolen pelisse in which she was wrapped
up a little dagger, of high finish, which made the notary reflect.

Yet, persuaded that his new servant only feared robbers, he conducted her to the room she was
to occupy (the former chamber of Louise). After having examined the localities, Cecily told
him, trembling, with her eyes cast down, that, from fear, she would pass her night on a chair,
because she saw on the door neither lock nor bolt.

Jacques Ferrand, already completely under the charm, but not wishing to awaken the suspicions
of Cecily, said to her, in a cross tone, that she was a fool to have such fears; but he promised
that the next day the bolt should be arranged. The Creole did not go to bed.

In the morning the notary came to instruct her as to her duties. He intended to preserve, during
the first day, a hypocritical reserve toward his new servant in order to inspire her with confidence;
but, struck with her beauty, Which, in the broad daylight seemed still more dazzling, blinded,
and carried away by his feelings, he stammered forth some compliments on her figure and beauty.

She, with rare sagacity, had judged from her first interview with the notary, that he was completely
under the charm, at the avowal which he made of his flame, she thought she would at once throw
off her feigned timidity, and change her mask. The Creole then assumed all at once a bold air.
Jacques Ferrand went into new ecstasies, on the beauty of features, and the enchanting figure
of his new maid.

"Look me full in the face," said Cecily, resolutely; "although dressed as an Alsatian peasant,
do I look like a servant?"

"What do you mean to say?" cried Jacques Ferrand.

"Mark this hand--is it accustomed to rude labor?"

And she showed a white and charming hand, with slender and delicate fingers, the long nails
polished like agate, but of which the slightly-shaded crown betrayed the mixed blood.

"And is this a servant's foot?"

And she advanced a ravishing little foot, which the notary had not yet remarked, and which
he now only desisted from looking at to regard Cecily with amazement.

"I told Aunt Pipelet just what suited me; she is ignorant of my past life; she thought I was
reduced to this position by the death of my parents, and took me for a servant; but you have,
I hope, too much sagacity to partake of her error, dear master."

"And what are you, then?" cried Jacques Ferrand, more and more surprised at this language.

"That is my secret. For reasons best known to myself, I have been obliged to leave Germany
in this disguise. I wish to remain concealed at Paris for some time. My aunt, supposing me
reduced to poverty, proposed my entering your service, spoke of your solitary manner of living,
and told me that I would never be allowed to go out. I accepted quickly. Without knowing it,
my aunt anticipated my most anxious desire. Who could look for and discover me here?"

"Conceal yourself! what have you done, to be obliged to conceal yourself?"

"Soft offenses, perhaps, but this is my secret."

"And what are your intentions, miss?"

"Always the same. Saving your significant compliments on my shape and beauty, I should not,
perhaps, have made this avowal, which your penetration had sooner or later provoked. Listen
to me, then, my dear master: I have accepted for the moment the condition, or, rather, the
appearance of a servant; circumstances oblige me to do so. I shall have the courage to play
this part to the end. I will submit to all the consequences. I will serve you with zeal, activity,
and respect, to preserve my place; that is to say, a sure and unknown retreat. But at the least
word of gallantry, at the least liberty you take with me, I leave you--not from prudery, nothing
in me, I think, looks like the prude."

And she cast a glance charged with sensual electricity, which reached the very bottom of the
notary's soul; he shuddered.

"No, I am not a prude," she resumed, with a provoking smile, which displayed her dazzling teeth.
"When love bites me, the bacchantes are saints in comparison. But be just, and you will agree
that your unworthy servant only wishes to perform honestly her duty as a servant. Now you know
my secret, or at least a part of my secret, will you, perchance, act as a gentleman? Do I seem
too handsome to serve you? Do you desire to change parts and become my slave? So be it! Frankly,
I prefer that, but always on this condition, that I shall never go out of the house, and you
shall have for me the most paternal attention--that need not hinder you from saying that you
find me charming: it shall be the recompense of your devotion and your discretion."

"The sole?" stammered Jacques Ferrand.

"The sole--unless solitude makes me mad; which is impossible, for you will keep me company,
and, in your quality as a holy man you shall exorcise the evil spirit. Come, decide, no mixed
position; either I will serve you, or you shall serve me; otherwise I leave your house, and
I beg my aunt to find me another place. All this must seem strange to you; so be it; but if
you take me for an adventurer, without the means of existence, you are wrong. In order to make
my aunt my accomplice without her knowledge, I allowed her to think I was too poor to buy other
clothes than these. Yet I have, you see, a purse well-filled: on this side with gold, on the
other with diamonds" (and she showed the notary a long red silk purse, filled with gold, through
the meshes of which also shone precious stones). "Unfortunately, all the money in the world
could not give me a retreat as secure as your house, so isolated by the retirement in which
you live. Accept, then, one or the other of my offers; you will render me a service. You see,
I place myself at your discretion; for to tell you that I concealed myself, is to tell you
I am sought for. But I am sure you will not betray me, even if you knew how to betray."

This romantic confidence, this sudden transformation of character, troubled the brain of Jacques
Ferrand.

Who was this woman? Why did she conceal herself? Had chance alone conducted her to his dwelling?
If, on the contrary, she came there for some secret purpose, what was this purpose?

Among all the hypotheses which this singular adventure raised in the mind of the notary, the
true motive of the Creole's presence never came to his thought. He had not, or, rather, he
thought he had not, any other enemies than the victims of his licentiousness and cupidity.
Now all of them were in such a condition of trouble or distress that he could not suppose them
capable of spreading a snare of which Cecily was the bait.

And then, again, for what purpose was it spread? No, the sudden transformation of Cecily inspired
but one fear to Jacques Ferrand: he thought that if this woman did not speak the truth she
was an adventurer, who, believing him rich, introduced herself into the house to cajole him,
find him out, and perhaps cause him to marry her. But, although his avarice and cupidity revolted
at the idea, he perceived, shuddering, that these suspicions and reflections were too late;
for, with a single word, he could put his suspicions at rest by sending this woman away. And
this word he did not speak. Already he loved her, after his manner, and passionately. Already
the idea of seeing this seducing creature leave his house seemed to him impossible. Already,
even, feeling the pangs of a savage jealousy to think that Cecily might bestow on others favors
refused to him, he experienced some consolation in saying, "As long as she is sequestered in
my house no one will possess her."

The boldness of language of this woman, the fire in her eyes, the provoking liberty of her
manners, sufficiently revealed that she was not, as she said, a prude. This conviction, giving
vague hopes to the notary, assured still more the empire of Cecily.

In a word, the licentiousness of Jacques Ferrand stifled the voice of cold reason; he abandoned
himself blindly to the emotions which overwhelmed him.

It was agreed that Cecily should be his servant only in appearance; in this manner there would
be no scandal. Besides, to assure still more the security of his guest, he would take no other
domestic; he would himself serve her and himself also; a neighboring coffee-house keeper could
bring his repasts. He paid in money the breakfasts of his clerks, and the porter could take
care of the office. Finally, the notary ordered to be promptly furnished a chamber on the first
floor, according to Cecily's taste. She offered to pay the expense. He opposed it, and expended
two thousand francs.

This generosity was enormous, and proved the unheard-of violence of his passion. Then commenced
for this wretch a strange life.

Shut up in the impenetrable solitude of his house, inaccessible to all, more and more under
the yoke of his frenzied love, no longer attempting to discover the secrets of this strange
woman, from master he became a slave; he was the footman of Cecily--he served her at her repasts--he
took care of her apartment. Informed by the baron that Louise had been surprised by a narcotic,
the Creole only drank very pure water, only ate meats impossible to adulterate; she chose the
chamber which she occupied, and assured herself that the walls concealed no secret doors.

Besides, Jacques Ferrand soon comprehended that Cecily was a woman not to be surprised with
impunity. She was vigorous, agile, and dangerously armed.

Nevertheless, not to allow his passion to flag, the Creole seemed at times touched with his
attentions, and flattered by the terrible domination she exercised over him. Then, supposing
that by proofs of his devotion and self-denial he could make her forget age and ugliness, she
delighted to paint in glowing colors his reward when he should arrive at that success.

At these words of a woman so young and so lovely, Jacques Ferrand felt sometimes his mind wandering;
a devouring imagery pursued him, waking or sleeping. The ancient fable of the Nessus' shirt
was realized for him.

In the midst of these nameless tortures he lost his health, appetite, and sleep. Often at night,
in spite of cold or rain, he descended to his garden, and endeavored by a rapid walk to calm
his emotions.

At other times, during whole hours, he looked into the chamber where the Creole slept, for
she had had the infernal kindness to allow a wicket to be placed in her door, which she often
opened, in order that she might almost cause him to lose his reason, so that she could then
execute the orders she had received.

The decisive moment seemed to approach. The chastisement of Ferrand became from day to day
more worthy of his sins.

He suffered all the torments. By turns absorbed, lost, out of his mind, indifferent to his
most serious interests, the maintenance of his reputation as an austere, grave, and pious man--a
reputation usurped, but acquired by long years of dissimulation and cunning--he astonished
his clerks by his aberrations, displeased his clients by his refusal to see them, and harshly
kept at a distance the priests, who, deceived by his hypocrisy, had been, until then, his most
fervent trumpeters.

As we were saying, Cecily was arranging her head for the night before a glass. On a slight
noise coming from the corridor, she turned her face away from the door.

Notwithstanding the noise which she had just heard at the door, Cecily did not the less tranquilly
continue her undressing; she drew from her corsage, where it was placed like a busk, a dirk,
five or six inches long, in a case of black shagreen, with a handle of black ebony fastened
with silver, a very simple handle, but perfectly handy, not a weapon of mere display.

Cecily took the dirk from its case with excessive precaution, and placed it on the marble chimney-piece;
the blade, of the finest Damascus and the best temper, was triangular; its point, as sharp
as a needle, had pierced a dollar without blunting it.

Impregnated with a subtle and quick poison, the least wound from this poniard was mortal.

Jacques Ferrand, having one day doubted the dangerous properties of this weapon, the Creole
made before him an experiment in anima vita, that is to say, on the unfortunate house dog,
who, slightly pricked in the nose, fell dead in horrible convulsions.

The dirk placed on the chimney, Cecily taking off her spencer of black cloth, exposed her shoulders,
bosom, and arms, naked like a lady in ball costume.

According to the custom of most girls of color, she wore, instead of a corset, a second corsage
of double linen, which was closely bound around her waist; her orange petticoat, remaining
fastened under her white inner waist with short sleeves, composed thus a costume much less
severe than the first, and harmonized wonderfully with the scarlet stockings, and the Madras
scarf so capriciously twisted around the head of the Creole. Nothing could be more pure, more
beautiful, than the contour of her arms and shoulders, to which little dimples gave a charm
the more.

A profound sigh attracted the attention of Cecily. She smiled, while roiling around one of
her ivory fingers some stray curls which escaped from the folds of the bandana.

"Cecily! Cecily!" murmured a voice, at once harsh and plaintive.

And at the narrow opening of the wicket appeared the pale, flat face of Jacques Ferrand; his
eyes sparkled in the shade.

Cecily, silent until then, began to sing softly in Creole French, a Louisianian air. The words
of this melody were soft and expressive. Although restrained, the noble contralto overpowered
the noise of the torrents of rain and violent gusts of wind, which seemed to shake the old
house to its foundation.

"Cecily! Cecily!" repeated Jacques Ferrand, in a supplicating tone.

The Creole suddenly stopped, turned her head quickly, and appeared to hear for the first time
the voice of the notary, and approached the door. "How! dear master, you are there?" said she,
with a slight foreign accent, which gave additional charm to her melodious voice.

"Oh! how handsome you are!" murmured the notary.

"You think so?" answered the Creole: "this bandana suits my hair?"

"Every day I find you still more handsome."

"And see how white my arm is."

"Monster! go away! go away!" cried Jacques Ferrand, furiously.

Cecily laughed immoderately.

"No, no, this is suffering too much! Oh! if I did not fear death!" cried the notary, in a hollow
voice; "but to die--to renounce the sight of you, so handsome. I prefer to suffer, and see you--"

"See me; this wicket is made for that, and, also, that we can talk as friends, and thus charm
our solitude; which, in truth, does not weigh heavily, you are so good a master! See what dangerous
confessions I can make through this door."

"And will you not open this door? Yet see how submissive I am! to-night I might have tried
to enter with you into your chamber--I did not."

"You are submissive for two reasons. In the first place, you know that being, from necessity,
in the habit of wearing a dirk, I handle with a firm hand this venomous plaything, sharper
than the tooth of a viper; you know also, that on the day I complain of you, I shall leave
forever this house, leaving you a thousand time more charmed, since you have been so gracious
toward your unworthy servant as to be charmed with her."

"My servant? it is I who am your slave--your slave, mocked, despised."

"That is true enough."

"And does not this touch you?"

"It amuses me. The days, and, above all, the nights, are so long."

"Oh, the cursed--"

"No seriously, you appear so completely bewildered, your features change so sensibly, that
I am flattered. It is a poor triumph, but you are the only man here!"

"To hear that, and only be able to consume in powerless rage!"

"How little wit you have! never, perhaps, have I said anything to you more tender."

"Scoff--scoff."

"I do not scoff; I have never seen a man of your age so much in love; and, it must be acknowledged,
that a young and handsome man would be incapable of such mad passion. An Adonis admires himself
as much as he admires us; he loves on the end of his teeth; and then to love him is his due,
hardly is he grateful; but to love a man like you, my master, oh! that would be to raise him
from earth to heaven; it would be to accomplish his wildest dreams, his hopes the most extravagent.
For, in fine, the being would say to you, 'You love Cecily madly; if I wish it, she shall be
yours'--you would believe such a being endowed with supernatural powers, would you not, dear
master?"

"Yes, oh! yes."

"Well! if you knew how to convince me better of your passion, I should have, perhaps, the fantasy
to play myself, in your favor, this supernatural part. Do you comprehend?"

"I comprehend that you scoff at me still, always, and without pity."

"Perhaps solitude creates such strange fantasies."

Her tone, until then, had been sardonic; but she pronounced these last words with a serious
expression, and accompanied them by a glance which made the notary tremble. "Hush--do not look
at me thus; you will make me mad. I prefer that you should say to me never; at least, I could
abhor you, drive you from the house," cried Jacques Ferrand, who again abandoned his vain hopes.
"Yes, for I expect nothing from you. But woe is me! woe! I know you now enough. You tell me
to convince you of my love; do you not see how unhappy I am! Yet I do all I can to please you.
You wish to be concealed from every eye: I conceal you, perhaps at the risk of compromising
myself; in fine, I do not know who you are; I respect your secret; I never speak to you about
it. I have interrogated you on your past life; you have not answered me."

"Well! I was wrong; I am going to give you a mark of blind confidence. Oh! my master, listen
to me."

"Once more a bitter joke!"

"No, it is very serious. You must know, you should know, the history of her to whom you give
such generous hospitality."

And Cecily added, in a tone of hypocritical and tearful compunction:

"The daughter of a brave soldier, brother of my Aunt Pipelet, I have received an education
above my condition; I was seduced, then abandoned, by a rich young man. Then, to escape from
the rage of my old father, I fled my native country." Then, laughing heartily, Cecily added:
"There, I hope is a little story very presentable, and, above all, very probable, for it has
often been related. Amaze your curiosity with that, while waiting for some revelation more
piquant."

"I was very sure that this was a cruel pleasantry," said the notary, with suppressed anger.
"Nothing touches you, nothing; what must be done? tell me, at least. I serve you like the meanest
valet; for you I neglect my dearest interests; I know no more what I do. I am a subject of
laughter for my clerks; my clients hesitate to leave me their business. I have parted with
some pious people who used to visit me. I dare not think what the public say of this complete
change in all my habits. You do not know, no, you do not know the fatal consequences that my
mad passion may have for me. See, now, the proofs of my devotion, my sacrifices. Do you wish
more? speak! Is it gold you wish? The world thinks me richer than I am, but I----"

"What would you have me to do with your gold?" said Cecily, interrupting the notary, and shrugging
her shoulders. "To reside in this chamber--what good would the gold do me? You have small invention!"

"But it is not my fault if you are a prisoner. Does this room displease you? Will you have
it more magnificent? speak, command."

"For what purpose; once more, for what purpose? Oh! if I expected here an adored being, I would
have gold, silk, flowers, perfumes, all the wonders of luxury; nothing could be too sumptuous,
too enchanting."

"Well! these wonders of luxury; say a word, and----"

"For what purpose? What should I do with the frame without the picture? The adored being, where
is he, oh! my master?"

"It is true!" cried the notary, bitterly. "I am old. I am ugly. I can only inspire disgust
and aversion; she loads me with contempt; she scoffs at me, and I have not the strength to
drive her away. I have only strength to suffer."

"Oh! the insupportable cry-baby; oh! the silly, with his complaints," cried Cecily, in a sardonic
and contemptuous tone; he does nothing but groan and lament, and has been for ten days shut
up alone with a young woman, in a deserted house."

"But this woman despises me--is armed--is locked!" cried the notary in a rage.

"Well! overcome the disdain of this woman; cause the dagger to fall from her hand; constrain
her to open this door, which separates you from her; and that not by brutal force, which would
fail."

"And how then?"

"By the force of your passion."

"Passion! and how can I inspire it?"

"Stop, you are but a notary bound up with a sexton; you make me pity you. Am I to teach you
your part? You are ugly; be terrible, your ugliness will be forgotten. You are old; be energetic,
your age will be overlooked. You are repulsive; be threatening. Since you cannot be the noble
horse, who neighs proudly in the midst of his wives, be not, at least, the stupid camel, who
bends the knee and crooks the back; be a tiger. An old tiger, who roars in the midst of carnage,
has also its beauty; his tigress answers him from the depths of the desert."

At this language, which was not without a sort of bold natural eloquence, Jacques Ferrard shuddered,
at the savage and almost ferocious expression of the face of Cecily, who, with heaving bosom,
expanded nostril, haughty mouth, fixed on him her large black and burning eyes.

Never had she appeared so lovely.

"Speak, speak again!" cried he, passionately; "you speak seriously this time. Oh! if I could----"

"One can do what one wishes," said Cecily, abruptly.

"But----"

"But I tell you that if you wish, repulsive as you are----"

"Yes, I will do it! Try me, try me!" cried Jacques Ferrand, more and more excited.

Cecily continued, approaching nearer, and fixing on the notary a penetrating look, "For a woman
loving a handsome youth would know," resumed the Creole, "that she would have an exorbitant
caprice to satisfy; that the boys would look at their money if they had any, or, if they had
none, to a mean trick, while the old tiger----"

"Would regard nothing, do you understand? nothing. Fortune, honor, he would know how to sacrifice
all he would!"

"True," said Cecily, placing her charming fingers on the bony and hairy hands of Jacques Ferrand,
who, for the first time, touched the soft and velvety skin of the Creole. He became still paler,
and uttered a hoarse sigh.

"How this woman would be beloved," added Cecily, "had she an enemy, whom, pointing out to her
old tiger, she would say strike, and--"

"And he would strike," cried Jacques Ferrand, endeavoring to approach the ends of her fingers
to his withered lips.

"True, the old tiger would strike," said the Creole, placing her hand softly on his.

"If you would love me," cried the wretch, "I believe I would commit a crime."

"Hold, master," said Cecily, suddenly withdrawing her hand; "in your turn go away, go away,
I know you no more; you do not appear to me so ugly now as before; go away."

She retired quickly from the wicket. The detestable creature knew how to give to her gestures
and to her last words an accent of truth so incredible--her look, at once surprised and annoyed,
seemed to express so naturally her spite at having for a moment forgotten the ugliness of Jacques
Ferrand--that he, transported with frenzied hope, cried, clinging to the bars of the wicket,
"Cecily, return, command, I will be your tiger!"

"No, no, master," said Cecily, retreating still further from the wicket; "and to lay the devil
who tempts me--I am going to sing a song of my country. Master, do you hear? without, the wind
redoubles, the tempest is unchained; what a fine night for two lovers, seated side by side
near a sparkling fire!"

"Cecily, return!" cried Jacques Ferrand, in a supplicating tone.

"No, no, presently, when I can without danger; but the light from this lamp hurts my eyes,
a soft languor weighs down my eyelids. I do not know what emotion agitates me; a demi-obscurity
will please me more; one would say I am in the twilight of pleasure."

And Cecily went toward the chimney, put out the lamp, took a guitar suspended on the wall,
and stirred the fire, whose blaze illuminated this large room.

From the narrow wicket where he remained immovable, such was the picture which Jacques Ferrand
perceived. In the midst of the luminous horizon formed by the undulating light of the fire,
Cecily, in a position full of languor, half reclining on a divan of pink satin, held a guitar,
from whence she drew some harmonious preludes.

The blazing hearth shed its rosy light on the Creole, who appeared brilliantly illumined in
the midst of the obscurity of the rest of the apartment.

To complete the effect of this picture, let the reader recall to his mind the mysterious and
almost fantastic appearance of a room where the firelight struggles with the long, dark shadows
which tremble on the ceiling and walls.

The storm redoubled its violence, its roaring could be heard from within.

While preluding on her guitar, Cecily fixed her magnetic glances on Jacques Ferrand, who, fascinated,
could not withdraw.

"Now, master," said the Creole, "listen to a song of my country; we do not know how to make
verses; we muse a simple recitative, without rhyme, and at each pause we improvise a couplet
appropriate to the subject; it is very pastoral; it will please you, I am sure, master. This
song is called the 'Loving Girl!' it is she who speaks."

And Cecily commenced a kind of recitative, much more accented by the expression of the voice
than by the modulations of the song. A few soft and trembling chords served as an accompaniment.
This was the song:

  "Flowers, everywhere flowers,
   My lover comes! The hope of happiness enervates and destroys.
   Soften the light of day--pleasure seeks a lucid darkness.
   To the fresh perfume of flowers my love prefers my warm breath,
   The glare of day shall not wound his eyes, for I will keep them closed
        by my kisses.
   My angel, come! My heart beats; my blood burns!
   Come, come, come!"

These words, chanted with as much ardor as if she had addressed an invisible lover, were, thus
to speak, translated by the Creole into a theme of enchanting melody; her charming fingers
drew from her guitar sounds full of delicious harmony.

The animated face of Cecily, her veiled and moistened eyes constantly fixed on those of Jacques
Ferrand, expressed all the languor of the song. Words of love; intoxicating music; inflamed
looks; silence; night! all conspired at this moment to disturb the reason of the notary. He
cried, bewildered:

"Mercy! Cecily! mercy I I shall go wild. Hush! I die. Oh! that I were mad!"

"Listen, then, to the second couplet," said the Creole, preluding anew.

And she continued her passionate recitative:

  "If my lover were there, and with his hand touched my soft neck, I should
         shudder and die.
   If he were there, and his hair touched my cheek, my cheek so pale would
         become red.
   My cheek so pale would be as fire.
   Life of my soul, if you were there, my parched lips could not speak.
   Life of my life, if you were there--expiring--I would ask no mercy.
   Those whom I love as I love you, I kill.
   My angel, come. Oh! come! My heart beats: my blood burns I
   Come, come, come!"

If the Creole had accented the first stanza with a voluptuous languor, she poured into these
last words all the transports of Eros of old. As if the music had been powerless to express
her wild delirium, she threw the guitar aside, and half rising from the couch and extending
her arms toward the door, she repeated, in an expiring, languishing voice,

  "Oh! come, come, come!"

To paint the electric look with which she accompanied these words would he impossible.

Jacques Ferrand uttered a terrible cry.

"O! death--death to him you love so much, to whom you have addressed these words!" cried he,
shaking the door in a transport of jealousy.

Active as a tigress, with one bound Cecily was at the wicket, and, as if she had with difficulty
dispelled her feigned transports, she said to Jacques Ferrand, in a low, palpitating voice:
"Well! I avow I did not wish to return to the door. I am here in spite of myself; for I fear
your words spoken just now. If you say strike--I will strike. You love me well, then?"

"Do you wish gold--all my gold?"

"No; I have enough."

"Have you an enemy? I'll kill him."

"I have no enemy."

"Will you be my wife? I will espouse you."

"I am married."

"But what do you wish, then! what do you wish?"

"Prove to me that your passion for me is blind, furious, that you will sacrifice everything
for me!"

"All! yes, all! But how?"

"I do not know; but there was a moment when the glance of your eye bewildered me. If now you
give me some proof of your love, I do not know of what I should be capable! Hasten! I am capricious;
to-morrow the impression of this hour will perhaps be effaced."

"But what proof can I give you on the moment?" cried the wretch. "It is an atrocious torment!
What proof? speak! What proof?"

"You are only a fool!" answered Cecily, retreating from the wicket with an appearance of extreme
irritation. "I am mistaken! I thought you capable of energetic devotion! Good-night. It is
a pity--"

"Cecily! oh! do not go--return. But what must I do? tell me, at least. Oh! my senses wander.
What must I do? what do?"

"Guess!"

"But, in fine--speak! what do you wish?" cried the notary, quite beside himself.

"Guess."

"Explain--command."

"Ah! if you love me as passionately as you say, you will find the means. Good-night."

"Cecily!"

"I am going to shut this wicket--instead of opening the door--"

"Mercy! listen--remain--I have found it," cried Jacques Ferrand, after a moment's pause, with
an expression of joy impossible to describe. The wretch was seized with a vertigo. He lost
all prudence, all reserve; the instinct of moral preservation abandoned him.

"Well! this proof of your love?" said the Creole: who, having approached the chimney, took
hold of her knife, and returned slowly toward the wicket.

Then, without being seen by the notary, she assured herself of the action of a small chain,
one end of which was fastened to the door, the other to the door-post.

"Listen," said Jacques Ferrand, in a hoarse and broken voice; "listen. If I place my honor,
my fortune, my life, at your mercy--here--on the spot--will you then believe I love you? This
proof of an insane passion, will it suffice?"

"Your honor, your fortune, your life? I do not comprehend."

"If I confide to you a secret which would place me on the scaffold?"

"You a criminal? You jest. And your austerity?"

"A lie."

"Your probity?"

"A lie."

"Your piety?"

"A lie."

"You pass for a saint, and you would be a demon! You are a boaster! No; there is no man quite
cunning enough, bold enough, thus to insinuate himself into the confidence and respect of men.
It would be a frightful defiance cast in the face of society."

"I am this man! I have thrown this taunt, this defiance, in the teeth of society!" cried the
monster, in an access of frightful pride.

"Jacques! Jacques! do not speak thus," said Cecily. "You will make me mad!"

"My head for your love--do you wish it?"

"Oh! this is love, indeed!" cried Cecily. "Here--take my poniard; you disarm me."

Jacques Ferrand took, through the wicket the dangerous weapon with precaution, and threw it
from him into the corridor.

"Verily--you believe me, then?" cried he, in transport.

"I believe you?" said the Creole, leaning with force her charming hands on those of Jacques
Ferrand. "Yes, I believe you; for I see again your look of just now--that look which fascinated
me. Your eyes sparkle with savage ardor; Jacques, I love your eyes!"

"Cecily!"

"You should speak the truth."

"I speak the truth! Oh! you shall see."

"Your countenance is lowering. Your expression formidable. Hold, you are as fearful and beautiful
as a mad tiger. But you speak the truth, do you not?"

"I have committed crimes, I tell you."

"So much the better, if by their avowal you prove your love."

"And if I tell you all?"

"I grant all; for if you have this blind confidence in me--do you see, Jacques--it will no
longer be the ideal lover of the song I call. It is to you, my tiger, you, that I shall say
come--come--come."

"Oh, you will be mine. I shall be your tiger," cried he; "and then, if you will, you shall
dishonor me--my head shall fall. My honor, my life, all is yours now,"

"Your honor?"

"My honor! Listen; ten years since an infant was confided to my care, and two hundred thousand
francs for its support; I have abandoned this child. I spread the report the child was dead,
and I kept the money."

"It was bold and skillful--who would have thought it of you?"

"Listen again: I hated my cashier, Francois Germain. One night he took from me a little gold,
which he returned the next day; but to ruin him, I accused him of having robbed me of a considerable
sum. I was believed, he was thrown into prison. Now my honor is at your mercy."

"Oh, you love me, Jacques, you love me. To inform me thus of your secrets--what empire I must
have over you! I will not be ungrateful; let me kiss this forehead, where so many infernal
thoughts were created."

"Oh!" cried the notary, stammering, "if the scaffold stood there, ready, I would not draw back.
Listen again: this child, Fleur-de-Marie, once abandoned, crosses my path--she inspires me
with fears; I have had her killed!"

"You? How? where?"

"A few days since--near Asnieres Bridge, by Ravageurs' Island. One named Martial drowned her
in a boat. Are these details sufficient? do you believe me?"

"Oh! demon from hell: you alarm, yet attract me. You inspire me. What is, then, your power?"

"Listen again: before that a man had confided to me a hundred thousand crowns. I set a trap
for him. I blew his brains out. I proved that he committed suicide, and I denied the deposit
which his sister the Baroness de Fermont reclaimed. Now my life is at your mercy--open."

"Jacques, I adore you!" said the Creole, with warmth.

"Oh! come a thousand deaths, and I'd dare them!" cried the notary, in an intoxication impossible
to describe. "Yes, you are right; were I young and charming, I should not experience this triumphant
joy. The key! throw me the key! draw the bolt!"

The Creole took the key from the lock, and handed it to the notary through the wicket, saying,
"Jacques, I am mad!"

"You are mine, at length!" cried he, with a savage roar, turning the key in the lock. But the
door, fastened with a bolt, did not open.

"Come, my tiger! come," said Cecily, in an expiring voice.

"The bolt! the bolt!" cried Jacques Ferrand.

"But, if you deceive me," cried the Creole, suddenly, "if these secrets are an invention, to
cajole me---"

The notary remained for a moment, struck with stupor; he thought he had succeeded: this last
difficulty raised his impatient fury to its climax.

He thrust his hand quickly in his bosom, opened his waistcoat, broke with violence a small
chain of steel, to which was suspended a small, thin pocket-book, took it, and showing it through
the wicket to Cecily, he said, in an oppressed and breathless tone,

"Here is what would cause my head to fall! draw the bolt--the book is yours."

"Give it to me, my tiger," cried Cecily.

And hastily drawing the bolt with one hand, with the other she seized the book.

But Jacques Ferrand did not abandon it until the moment he felt the door yielding to his efforts.

But though the door yielded, it was only for about six inches, confined, as it was, by the
chain above mentioned. At this unforeseen obstacle, Jacques Ferrand threw himself against the
door, and shook it with a desperate effort. Cecily, with the rapidity of thought, put the wallet
between her teeth, opened the window, threw a cloak into the court, and with great dexterity
making use of a cord previously fastened to the balcony, she let herself down into the court,
as rapidly and lightly as an arrow falls to the ground.

Then, wrapping herself up in haste in the mantle, she ran to the porter's lodge, opened it,
drew the bolt, went out into the street, and jumped into a carriage, which, since her residence
at Jacques Ferrand's, was sent every night by order of Baron de Graun, stationed not twenty
steps from the notary's mansion.

This carriage was quickly driven off, drawn by two stout horses. It reached the boulevard before
Jacques Ferrand had perceived the flight of Cecily. Let us return to this monster.

Through the opening of the door it was impossible for him to see the window by which the Creole
escaped. With one mighty effort with his broad shoulders, he burst the chain which confined
the door, and rushed into the chamber, and found no one.

The cord waved in the wind, as he leaned from the balcony. Then, from the other side of the
court, by the light of the moon, which burst forth at intervals from the driving clouds, he
saw the gate open.

In a moment he divined everything. A last ray of hope remained.

Vigorous and determined, he sprang over the balcony, using the cord in his turn, lowered himself
into the court, and rushed out of the house. The street was deserted--he was alone.

He heard no other noise than the distant rolling of the carriage which was rapidly carrying
off the Creole. The notary thought it was some belated vehicle, and attached no importance
to this circumstance.

Thus, for him no chance remained of finding Cecily, who carried off with her the proofs of
his crimes!!!

On this frightful certainty, he fell, thunderstruck, on his own threshold.

He remained there a long time, dumb, immovable, petrified. With wan eyes, his teeth compressed,
his mouth foaming, tearing mechanically with his nails his breast, he felt his reason totter,
and was lost in an abyss of darkness. When he awoke from his stupor, he walked heavily, and
with an ill-assured step; objects trembled in his sight; he felt as if recovering from a fit
of intoxication.

He shut with violence the street door, and re-entered the court. The rain had ceased, but the
wind continued to blow with violence, chasing the heavy laden clouds, which veiled, without
concealing, the light of the moon.

Slightly calmed by the brisk and cold air of the night, Ferrand, hoping to combat his internal
agitation by the rapidity of his walk, plunged into the obscure walks of his garden, marching
with rapid strides, and from time to time striking his forehead with his clinched fists.

Walking thus at hazard, he reached the end of a walk near a greenhouse in ruins. Suddenly he
stumbled violently over a mound of earth newly raised. He stooped, and looked mechanically
on some linen stained with blood.

He was near the grave where Louise Morel buried her dead child. Her child--also the child of
Jacques Ferrand! Notwithstanding his obduracy, notwithstanding the frightful fears which agitated
him, Jacques Ferrand shuddered with alarm.

There was something supernatural in this stumbling-block. Pursued by the avenging punishment
of his vice, chance carried him to the grave of his child--unhappy fruit of his violence. Under
any other circumstances, Jacques Ferrand would have trampled on this sepulcher with atrocious
indifference; but having exhausted his savage energy in the scene we have related, he was seized
with a weakness and sudden alarm. His face was covered with an icy sweat, his trembling knees
shook under him, and he fell lifeless across this open grave.

CHAPTER III.

LA FORCE.

The interior of a prison is a frightful pandemonium--a sad thermometer of the state of society,
and an instructive study.

In a word, the varied physiognomies of all classes of prisoners, the relations of family or
affection which connects them still to the world, from which the prison walls separate them,
have appeared to us worthy of regard.

The reader will, then, excuse us for having grouped around several of the prisoners personages
to be known in this tale, and other secondary figures, destined to place in active relief certain
critical events necessary to complete this initiation into prison life. Let us enter La Force.

There is nothing gloomy, nothing sinister in the aspect of this house of detention.

In the middle of one of the first courts are to be seen some mounds of earth, planted with
shrubbery, at the foot of which are already shooting forth some precocious cowslips and snowdrops;
a trellised doorway leads to one of the seven or eight exercise-grounds destined for the prisoners.

The vast buildings surrounding this court resemble much a barrack or manufactory, kept with
extreme neatness. They are built of limestone, with lofty windows, in order to allow a free
circulation of air. The steps and pavement of the yard are of scrupulous cleanliness. On the
ground-floor, vast halls, heated during winter, and well aired during summer, serve during
the day as a place for conversation, workshops, or refectories. The upper stories are used
as immense sleeping apartments, ten or twelve feet in height, with shining floors; they are
furnished with two rows of iron bedsteads, excellent beds, composed of a soft thick mattress,
a bolster, sheets of white linen, and a warm woolen covering.

At the sight of these accommodations, uniting all the requisites of comfort and salubrity,
a stranger is much surprised, accustomed as he is to suppose all prisons as sorrowful, dirty,
unhealthy, and gloomy. He is mistaken.

Sad, dirty, and gloomy are the holes where so many poor and honest workmen languish exhausted,
forced to abandon their beds to their infirm wives, and to leave with powerless despair their
half-starving, naked children, struggling with the cold, in the infectious straw.

There is some contrast between the physiognomies of the inhabitants of these two dwellings.
Incessantly occupied with the wants of his family, to whom the day is hardly long enough, seeing
a mad perversity reducing his salary, the artisan will be cast down and worn out; the hour
of repose will not be sound to him; a kind of sleep like lassitude alone interrupts his daily
toil. Then, on awaking from this mournful drowsiness, he will find himself overwhelmed with
the same racking thoughts of the present, with the same inquietudes for the morrow.

But if, hardened by vice, indifferent to the past, happy with the present, certain of the future
(he can assure himself of it by an offense or crime), regretting his liberty without doubt,
but finding large compensation in the personal well-being he enjoys, certain to carry away
with him on his release a good sum of money, gained by moderate and easy labor, esteemed, or,
may be, feared by his companions, either for his impudence or perversity, the convict, on the
contrary, will be almost always careless and gay. Once more; what does he want?

Does he not find in prison good shelter, good bed, good food, good pay, easy labor, and above
all and before all, a society to his taste, a society, let us repeat, which measures his merit
by the magnitude of his offenses?

A hardened criminal, then, knows neither poverty, hunger, nor cold. What matters to him the
horror he inspires in honest men? He does not see them--he knows none.

His crimes are his glory, influence, and strength with the bandits among whom he will henceforth
pass his life. How can he fear shame?

Instead of grave and charitable remonstrances, which might force him to blush and to repent,
he hears savage plaudits, which encourage him to robbery and murder, Scarcely imprisoned, he
meditates new misdeeds. What is more logical?

If he is discovered, arrested anew, he will find repose, the personal care of the prison, and
his joyous and bold companions in crime and debauchery.

Is his corruption less great than that of the others? does he manifest, on the contrary, the
slightest remorse that he is exposed to atrocious railings, infernal shouts, terrible threats?

In fine--a thing so rare that it has become an exception to the rule--should a condemned man
come out of this frightful pandemonium with a firm resolution to reform by prodigies of labor,
courage, patience, and honesty, and be able to conceal his past offenses, a meeting with one
of his old prison companions would be sufficient to overturn his plan of reformation so carefully
designed. In this way:

A hardened ticket-of-leave proposes a job to a repentant one; the latter, in spite of dangerous
threats, refuses the criminal association; immediately an anonymous communication strips the
veil from the past life of this unfortunate, who wishes, at any sacrifice, to conceal and expiate
a first fault by honorable conduct.

Then, exposed to the contempt, or, at least, the suspicion of those whose interest he had obtained
by force of industry and probity, reduced to distress, soured by injustice, carried away by
want, yielding, in fine, to these fatal derelictions, this man, almost restored, falls back
again, and forever, to the bottom of the abyss from whence he had with so much difficulty escaped.

In the following scenes we shall endeavor, then, to show the monstrous and inevitable consequences
of promiscuous confinement.

After ages of barbarous proofs and pernicious doubts, it begins to be understood how unreasonable
it is to plunge into an atmosphere abominably vitiated, people whom a pure and salubrious air
might have saved.

How much time shall be required to find out that, to associate gangrened beings is to redouble
the intensity of their corruption, which thus becomes incurable?

How long to find out that there is but one remedy to this growing leprosy, which threatens
the body social, Solitary confinement?

We should esteem ourselves happy if our feeble voice could be, if not counted, at least heard,
among all those which, more imposing, more eloquent than ours, demand, with so just and so
impatient an importunity, the complete, absolute adoption of the solitary system.

Some day, also, perhaps, society will know that evil is an accidental, not organic malady;
that criminals are almost always good in substance, but false and wicked through ignorance,
selfishness, or negligence of those governing; and that the health of the soul, like that of
the body, is invincibly subordinate to the laws of a "hygiene" at once salubrious and preservative.

God gives to all, along with healthy organs, energetic appetites, and the desire of comfort;
it is for society to modify and satisfy these wants.

The man who only has as his share strength, good-will, and health, has the right, sovereign
right to a labor justly remunerated, which will assure him, not the superfluities, but the
necessaries of life, the means to be healthy and robust, active and industrious, therefore
honest and virtuous, because his condition will be happy.

The dismal regions of misery and ignorance are peopled with beings of sorrowful hearts. Cleanse
these sewers, spread there the inclination to labor, equitable salaries, just rewards, and
soon these sickly faces, these broken hearts, will be brought back to virtue, which is the
life and health of the soul.

We will conduct the reader to the visitors' room of the prison. It is an obscure apartment,
separated down its whole length into two equal parts by a narrow, railed passage. One part
communicates with the interior, destined for the prisoners.

The other communicates with the office, destined for strangers admitted to visit the prisoners.

These interviews and conversations take place through the double grating of iron, in presence
of a warder, who remains inside, at the extremity of the passage. The appearance of the prisoners
assembled in the visiting room on this day offered numerous contrasts: some were covered with
wretched vestments; some seemed to belong to the working class; others, again, to the well-to-do
class.

The same contrast of condition was observable among the persons who came to see the prisoners;
they were almost all of them women. Generally the prisoners appear less sad than the visitors;
for, strange as it may appear, it is proved by experience, there are few sorrows and little
shame which resist three or four days of imprisonment passed in company.

Those who are most alarmed at this hideous communion are soon habituated; the contagion reaches
them; surrounded by degraded beings, hearing only infamous words, a kind of ferocious emulation
drags them on, and either to impose upon their companions by rivaling their obduracy or to
stupefy themselves by this moral intoxication, almost always the newly-arrived show as much
depravity and insolent gayety as the old hands. Let us return to the visitors' room.

Notwithstanding the humming noise of a great number of conversations carried on in a low tone,
from one side of the passage to the other, prisoners and visitors succeeded, after some practice,
in being able to converse among themselves--on the absolute condition not to allow themselves,
for a moment, to be distracted or occupied with the conversation of their neighbors, which
created a kind of secret in the midst of all this noisy exchange of words, each one being forced
to hear, but not to listen, to a word of that which was spoken around him.

Among the prisoners summoned to the visitors' room, and the furthest from the place where the
guardian was seated, was one whom we still particularize.

To the sad state of dejection he was in on his arrest had succeeded impudent assurance. Already
the contagious and detestable influence of imprisonment in common bore its fruits. Without
doubt, if he had been immediately transferred to a solitary cell, this wretch, still under
the blow of his first detection, the thought of his crimes constantly before him, alarmed at
the punishment which awaited him, might have experienced, if not repentance, at least a salutary
alarm, from which nothing might have distracted him. And who knows what effect may be produced
on a criminal by an incessant, forced meditation on the crimes which he had committed, and
their punishment? Far from this, thrown into the midst of a ruffianly crowd in whose eyes the
least sign of repentance is cowardice, or, rather, treachery, which they dearly expiate, for,
in their savage obduracy and in senseless distrust, they look upon as a spy every man (if there
should be such a one) who, sad and mournful, regretting his fault, does not partake of their
audacious thoughtlessness, and shudders at their contact.

Thrown among the bandits, this man, knowing, for a long time and by tradition, the manners
and ways of prisons, overcame his weakness, and wished to appear worthy of a name already celebrated
in the annals of robbery and murder.

For it had been to him, Nicholas Martial, that Ferrand had applied when the idea struck him
to be rid of his housekeeper and Fleur-de-Marie at a blow.

His family were what are called ravageurs, that is dredgers, living on what they could pick
up out of the mud of the Seine. At least they were openly these, but, secretly, they were river
pirates, "lumpers," "light horsemen," housebreakers, and bravoes. The father had perished on
the scaffold. His widow, forty-five years old, was confirmed in crime, stern, hard, coldly
cruel, and bent on training all her children up into the life which would most revenge on society
the slaying of her husband. One son, Ambrose, had been sold by Bras-Rouge (Red-Arm), a tavern
keeper and fence, and now languished in the Rochefort hulks. The eldest son, known as Martial,
being head of the family, was a poacher, a fisherman at unlawful seasons, but not irreclaimably
bad. The youngest children, Francois and Amandine, were not yet spoiled by evil surroundings.

To this family, who added to their evil income by keeping a thieves' resort in their house
on Ravageur's Island, La Chouette had applied for the murdering of Fleur-de-Marie. Nicholas
and his sister, known as Calabash (from her yellow complexion) had succeeded in drowning Ferrand's
housekeeper only. But, believing they had fulfilled the twofold bargain, they had gone off
rejoicing with their mother, to meet La Chouette, report their success, and join in a fresh
atrocity. This new crime, the robbery and murder of a diamond-dealer in Red-Arm's public-house,
was frustrated by the landlord's secret connection with the police. They had made their descent
just as the jewel-broker was in the villains' hands, and arrested the whole gang. Bras-Rouge
(taken to prevent his fellows suspecting his treachery), Nicholas Martial, and a scamp named
Barbillon, were put in La Force, widow Martial and Calabash in Saint Lazare. Another capture,
a ruffian called the Maitre d'Ecole (Schoolmaster), from his caligraphic abilities, who had
killed La Chouette in a fit of madness, was put in the Conciergerie Prison, in a cell for the
insane.

To return to Nicholas Martial in La Force. Some veteran gallows-birds had known his executed
father, others, his brother, the galley-slave; he was received and immediately patronized by
these revelers in crime with savage interest.

This paternal reception from murderer to murderer exhilarated the widow's son, these praises
bestowed on the hereditary perversity of his family intoxicated him. Soon forgetting, in this
hideous thoughtlessness, the future which menaced him, he only remembered his past misdeeds
but to exaggerate them and glorify himself in the eyes of his companions. The expression, then,
of his face, was as impudent as his visitor's was uneasy and concerned. This individual was
one Micou, a receiver, dwelling in the Passage de la Brasserie, to whose house Madame de Fermont
and her daughter, victims of the cupidity of Jacques Ferrand, had been obliged to retire. Micou
knew to what punishment he was subject, for having several times acquired, at a miserable price,
the fruits of Nicholas's robberies, and of several others.

He being arrested, the receiver found himself almost at the discretion of the bandit, who could
point him out as his habitual fence. Although this accusation might not be sustained by flagrant
proofs, it was not the less very dangerous for Micou: so he had immediately executed the orders
which Nicholas had sent him by a prisoner whose time had expired.

"Well! how do you get on, Daddy Micou?" said the thief.

"To serve you, sir," answered the receiver, eagerly. "As soon as I saw the person you sent
me, right away I--"

"Stop! why do you speak so loftily, Micou?" said Nicholas, interrupting him, with a sardonic
air. "Do you not despise me because I am in quod?"

"No, I despise no one," said the receiver, who did not care to make public his past familiarity
with this wretch.

"Well, then, speak as usual, or I shall believe you have no friendship for me, and that would
break my heart."

"As you like," said Micou, sighing. "I have busied myself with all your little commissions."

"Well spoken, Micou. I knew well that you would not forget friends. The weed?"

"I have left two pounds at the office, my lad."

"Is it good?"

"None better."

"And the ham?"

"Also left there, with a quartern loaf. I have added a little surprise you did not expect--half
a dozen hard-boiled eggs, and a fine Dutch cheese."

"That's what I call acting like a pal! And wine?"

"There are six bottles, sealed; but, you know, they will only give you one bottle a day."

"What would you have? One ought to be content with that."

"I hope you are satisfied with me, my friend?"

"Certainly; and shall be still, and shall be again, Daddy Micou, for this ham, cheese, eggs,
and wine will only last the time to swallow them; but, when there is no more, there will come
some more, thanks to Daddy Micou, who will give me some more sugar-plums, if I am a good boy."

"How? you wish--"

"In two or three days you would renew my little provision, Micou."

"May the devil burn me if I do. It is all very well for once."

"Good for once! Come, come; ham and wine are good always, you know that well enough."

"It is possible; but I am not obliged to feed you with dainties."

"Oh, Micou! it is wrong, it is unjust, to refuse ham to me, who have so often brought you fat
tripe (sheet-lead)."

"Hush!" said the alarmed receiver.

"No; I'll make the beak decide; I will tell him. Imagine that, Daddy Micou--"

"Good, good!" cried the receiver, seeing, with as much fear as anger, Nicholas was disposed
to abuse the position which their dealings gave him; "I consent--I will replenish your stock
of provisions when they are exhausted."

"It is just--nothing but just. Neither must you forget to send some coffee to my mother and
Calabash, who are at Saint Lazare; they used to take their cup every morning--they will feel
the want of it."

"Still more? But do you mean to ruin me, lad?"

"As you please, old Micou; let us speak no more about it. I will ask the big-wig if--"

"Agreed, then, for the coffee," said the receiver, interrupting him. "But may the devil take
you! cursed be the day I knew you!"

"My old man, as for me, it is just the contrary. At this moment, I am delighted to know you.
I venerate you as my foster-father."

"I hope that you have nothing more to order?" answered Micou, with bitterness.

"Yes! tell my mother and sister that, though I trembled when I was arrested, I tremble no more,
and that I am now as bold as both of them."

"I will tell them. Is that all?"

"Stop! I forgot to ask for two pair of warm woolen stockings--you do not wish me to take cold,
do you?"

"I wish you were froze!"

"Thank you, Micou, that shall be later; at present, I prefer something else. I wish to pass
life calmly--at least, if they do not make me a head shorter, like father, I shall have enjoyed
life."

"Your life is very pleasant!"

"It is superb! Since I have been here, I have amused myself like a king. If there had been
lamps and guns, there would have been an illumination and a salvo in my honor, when it was
known that I was the son of the famous Martial!"

"It is touching. Beautiful relationship!"

"Hold! there are many dukes and marquises; why, then, should not we of the oldest family have
our nobility?" said the thief with savage irony.

"Yes, Jack Ketch gives you your letters of nobility in Palace Square!"

"Very sure that it is not the parson! So much the more reason in prison one should be of high
Toby nobility, otherwise you are looked upon as a nobody. You ought to see how they treat those
mere fogle-hunters, and who do their--Hold! there is one here named Germain, a young man who
plays the disgusted, and seems to despise us. Let him take care of his skin. He is a sneak;
he is suspected of being a spy. If this is so, they will slit his nose, by way of warning!"

"Germain! A young man called Germain?"

"Yes. Do you know him? He is, then, in the family line, notwithstanding his innocent looks?"

"I do not know him. But if it is the Germain of whom I have heard speak, his lookout is good."

"How?"

"He once escaped a snare which Velu and the Big Cripple laid for him."

"Why did they do it?"

"I don't know. They said that down among the yokels he had sold one of their band."

"I was sure of it. Germain is a spy. Well! I will tell this to my friends; that will give them
an appetite. Does the Big Cripple still play tricks on your lodgers?"

"I am rid of the villain! you will see him here to-day or to-morrow."

"Bravo! we shall have a laugh! He's another who never looks glum!"

"Because he is going to meet Germain here, is why I said his account was good--if he is the same--"

"And why has the Cripple been nabbed?"

"For a robbery committed with a lagger (released convict) who wished to remain honest and labor.
Oh, yes! the Big Cripple nicely fixed him; he is so wicked! I am sure it was he who forced
the trunk of two women who occupy my fourth floor."

"What women? Oh! the two, the youngest of whom was so handsome, old brigand."

"Oh, yes; but it is all over with her; for, at this present moment, the mother must be dead,
and the daughter not far from it. I shall be in for two weeks' lodgings; but may the devil
burn me if I give a rag to bury them! I have had losses enough, without counting the presents
which you beg me to give you and your family. This will nicely derange my business. I have
luck this year."

"Bah, bah! you are always complaining, old Micou; you are as rich as Croesus. When you come
to bring me some more provisions, you can give me news of my mother and Calabash!"

"Yes, it must be so."

"Oh! I forget, while you are out, buy me also a new cap, of plaid velvet, with a tassel; mine
is no longer fit to be worn."

"Decidedly--you are joking!"

"No, Micou. I want a cap of plaid velvet; it is my notion."

"But you are determined, then, to make me sleep on straw?"

"Come, Daddy Micou, don't get vexed; it is yes or no; I do not force you. But enough."

The receiver, reflecting that he was at the mercy of Nicholas, arose, fearing to be assailed
with new demands if he prolonged his visit.

"You shall have your cap," said he; "but take care, if you ask me for anything more, I shall
give nothing; happen what may, you will lose as much as I."

"Be tranquil, Micou; I shall not blackmail you any more than is necessary, for this would be
a pity; you pay much heavy postage as it is."

The receiver went out, shrugging his shoulders with rage, and the warder reconducted Nicholas
into the prison. At the moment Micou left, Rigolette entered.

The warder, a man of forty years, an old soldier of energetic appearance, was dressed in a
jacket, cap, and trousers of blue cloth; two silver stars were embroidered on the collar and
skirts of his coat.

At sight of the grisette, his face brightened up, and assumed an expression of affectionate
benevolence. He had always been struck with the grace, gentility, and touching goodness with
which Rigolette consoled Germain when she came to converse with him. Germain, on his part,
was no ordinary prisoner. His reserve, his mildness, his sadness, inspired interest in the
prison officials; an interest they were careful not to show him, for fear of exposing him to
the bad treatment of his vicious companions, who, as we have shown, regarded him with suspicious
hatred.

It rained in torrents, but thanks to her overshoes and umbrella, Rigolette had courageously
braved the wind and rain.

"What a horrible day, my poor girl!" said the guardian to her, kindly. "You must have had a
good deal of courage to come out such a time as this, at least!"

"When one is thinking all along the way of the pleasure they are going to give a poor prisoner,
one does not pay much attention to the weather, sir!"

"I have no need to ask you whom you come to see?"

"Surely not. And how is my poor Germain?"

"My dear, I have seen many prisoners; they were sad, one or two days, but by degrees they fell
in with the rest, and the most sorrowful at first often became the most gay. Germain is not
so; he appears to grow sadder every day."

"It is this that troubles me."

"When I am on service in the yards, I watch him out of the corner of my eye; he is always alone.
I have already told you, you should advise him not to act thus, but to speak to his comrades,
otherwise he will become their butt. The yards are watched, but--a blow is soon struck!"

"Oh, sir! is there still more danger for him?" cried Rigolette.

"Not precisely; but the knaves see he is not one of them, and they hate him because he appears
honest and proud."

"Yet I have advised him to do what you have told me, sir; to endeavor to converse with the
least wicked; but it is too much for him; he cannot overcome his repugnance."

"He is wrong--wrong; a quarrel is soon got up."

"Can he not be separated from the others?"

"Since I have noticed two or three days ago their evil intentions toward him, I have advised
him to take a room by himself."

"Well?"

"I did not think of one thing. A whole range of cells are comprised in the repairs now going
on in the prison, and the others are occupied."

"But these bad men are capable of killing him!" cried Rigolette, with her eyes filled with
tears. "If by chance he had some persons interested in his fate, what could they do for him, sir?"

"Nothing more than to obtain what the prisoners can obtain themselves by paying money--a separate
cell."

"Alas! then he is lost, if they hate him in the prison."

"Don't disturb yourself; he shall be watched closely. But I repeat, my dear, counsel him to
be a little familiar with them; only the first step costs!"

"I will recommend him to do this with all my strength, sir; but for a good and honest heart
it is hard to be familiar with such people."

"Of two evils, choose the least. I go to ask for Germain. But, stop," said the warder, reflecting;
"there are only two visitors left; as soon as they are gone--no more will come to-day, for
it is now two o'clock--I will send for Germain; you can talk more at ease. I can, even, when
you are alone, let him enter into the passage, so that you will be separated by one grating
instead of two; so much less."

"Oh, sir! how kind you are; how much I thank you!"

"Hush! let not any one hear you; it will cause jealousy. Seat yourself up there, at the end
of the bench, and as soon as this man and woman are gone, I will send for Germain."

The warder returned to his post inside the passage. Rigolette went and seated herself sadly
at the extremity of the visitor's bench.

Thus we have a fine chance to draw the grisette's portrait.

Rigolette was hardly eighteen, of a middling size, perhaps rather small, but so gracefully
shaped, so finely modeled, so voluptuously developed, that her size responded well to her bearing,
fearless and yet modest; one inch more in height would have caused her to lose much of her
grace; the movement of her small feet, always irreproachably confined in gaiter-boots of black
cloth, with rather thick soles, recalled to mind the coquettish, light and discreet run of
a quail. She did not appear to walk, she merely touched the pavement; she slid rapidly on its
surface. This walk, peculiar to grisettes, ought to be attributed, without doubt, to three
causes: To their desire to be thought handsome; to their fear of an admiration expressed in
pantomime too expressive; to the desire that they always have to lose as little time as possible
in their peregrinations.

Rigolette's two broad thick bands of shining hair, black as jet, fell very low on her forehead;
her fine eyebrows seemed traced with ink, and overshadowed large black eyes, sparkling and
wicked; her full, plump cheeks were like velvet of the freshest carnation, fresh to the sight,
fresh to the touch, like a rosy peach impregnated with the cold dew of the morning.

Her little turned-up nose, saucy and cunning, would have made the fortune of a stage chambermaid;
her mouth, somewhat large, with lips of rose well moistened, and little, white, pearly teeth,
was smiling and provoking; of three charming dimples, which gave enticing grace to her face,
two buried themselves in her cheeks, the other in her chin, not far from a beauty spot, a little
black patch most killingly placed near the corner of her mouth.

Up to the day of Germain's arrest, Rigolette had had no sorrows but those of others; she sympathized
with all her flowers--devoted herself, body and soul, to those who suffered--but thought no
more about it when her back was turned. Often she ceased from laughing to weep sincerely, and
then she ceased from weeping to laugh again. A true child of Paris--she preferred noise to
solitude, movement to repose the resounding harmony of the orchestra at the Chartreuse or Coliseum
balls, to the soft murmur of the winds, the waters, and the foliage--the deafening noise of
the streets of Paris to the solitude of the country--the glare of fireworks, the glitter of
a ball, the noise of rockets, to the serenity of a fine night, with stars and darkness and
silence. Rigolette only left her room on Sundays--and each morning, to lay in her provision
of chickweed, bread, milk, and hempseed, for herself and her two birds, but she lived in Paris
for Paris' sake. She would have been in despair to have lived elsewhere than in the capital.

Another anomaly: notwithstanding this taste for Parisian pleasures; notwithstanding the liberty,
or, rather, the state of abandonment in which she found herself, being alone in the world;
notwithstanding the rigid economy which she was obliged to use in her smallest expenses in
order to live on thirty sous a day; notwithstanding the most mischievous and adorable little
face in the world, never had Rigolette been a man's prey.

Early in life, she had lost her parents by the cholera, and, at ten years of age, strangers
had taken care of her, until she left them to find her own living. At this period she had made
Fleur-de-Marie's passing acquaintance, and later, as she dwelt in Rudolph's lodging-house--that
of the prince whom she only thought to be a workman--she had been in the habit of going out
on Sundays and other holidays with young men of her house, but they had given up the companionship
when they found how virtuous she was, without knowing it. Germain, also her neighbor in the
house, had, however, fallen desperately in love with Rigolette, without daring to breathe one
word respecting it. Far from imitating his predecessors, who resorted to other sources of solace,
without losing their regard for her, Germain had delightfully enjoyed his intimacy with the
girl, and the pleasure afforded by her society on Sundays and every other evening that he was
disengaged. During these long hours, Rigolette was always gay and merry, and Germain affectionate,
serious, and attentive, and often slightly melancholy. This sadness was his only disadvantage,
for his manners, being naturally refined, did not suffer by comparison with the ridiculous
pretensions of M. Girandeau, a traveling clerk, or with the boisterous eccentricities of Cabrion,
an artist, though Girandeau, by his excessive loquacity, and the painter, by his no less excessive
hilarity, had the advantage of Germain, whose gentlemanly gravity rather awed his lively neighbor.

Rigolette had never evinced any partiality for either of her three lovers; but, with excellent
judgment, she soon discovered that Germain combined all the qualities which would render any
reasonable woman happy.

When the latter was imprisoned, her feeling manifested itself as love.

CHAPTER IV.

PIQUE-VINAIGRE.

The prisoner who was placed alongside of Barbillon in the visitor's room, was a man about forty
years of age, and of slender make, and with a cunning, intelligent, jovial, and jeering face;
he had an enormous mouth, almost entirely without teeth; when he spoke he twisted it from side
to side, according to the pretty general custom of those who address the populace of market
places; his nose was flat, his head immensely large, and almost entirely bald; he wore an old
gray waistcoat, trousers of an indescribable color, pieced in a thousand different places;
his naked feet, red from the cold, half wrapped up in old linen, were thrust into wooden shoes.

This man, named Fortune Gobert, nick-named Pique-Vinaigre (Sharp Vinegar, to prevent mistakes),
formerly a juggler, and a prisoner for the crime of passing counterfeit money, was accused
of breaking the terms of his ticket-of-leave, and of burglary.

Confined but for a few days at La Force, already Pique-Vinaigre filled, to the general satisfaction
of his prison companions, the post of story-teller. At the present day these are rare, but
formerly each ward generally had, at the expense of a light, individual contribution, its tale-teller,
who, by his improvisations, made the interminable winter evenings appear less long, the prisoners
retiring to rest at nightfall.

Pique-Vinaigre excelled in that kind of heroic recital where weakness, after a thousand crosses,
finishes by triumphing over its persecutors. Pique-Vinaigre possessed, besides, an immense
fund of irony, which had given him his nickname. He had just entered the room.

Opposite him, on the other side of the railing, was a woman of about thirty-five, with a pale,
sweet, and interesting face, poorly but neatly clad; she wept bitterly, and kept her handkerchief
to her eyes. Pique-Vinaigre looked at her with a mixture of impatience and affection.

"Come now, Jeanne," said he, "do not be a child; it is sixteen years since we have met; if
you keep your handkerchief over your eyes, we won't know each other."

"My brother, my poor Fortune--I suffocate--I cannot speak."

"Ain't you droll! what ever is the matter with you?"

This sister--for this woman was his sister--restrained her sobs, dried her eyes, and regarding
him with stupor, answered, "What is the matter? I find you again in prison, who had already
been in fifteen years!"

"It is true; to-day six months I came out of Melun prison, without going to see you at Paris,
because the capital was forbidden to me."

"Already retaken! What have you then done? Why did you leave Beaugency, where you were sent,
with orders to report yourself now and then?"

"Why? You ought to ask me why I went there?"

"You are right."

"In the first place, my poor Jeanne, since these gratings are between us both, imagine that
I have embraced you, folded you in my arms, as one ought to do when he sees a sister after
an age. Now, let us chat. A prisoner of Melun, called the Big Cripple, told me that there was
at Beaugency an old galley-slave of his acquaintance, who employed liberated convicts in a
manufactory of white-lead. Do you know what that is?"

"No, brother."

"It is a very fine trade; those who are employed in it, at the end of a month or two, have
the painter's colic; of three attacked, about one dies. To be just, the two others die also,
but at their ease; they take their time; take good care of themselves, and they may last a
year, eighteen months at the most. After all, the trade is not so badly paid as some others,
and there are some folks born already dressed, who hold out two or three years; but these are
the old folks, the centenaries of the white-leaders. They die, it is true, but that's not fatiguing."

"And why did you choose a trade so dangerous, my poor Fortune?"

"And what would you have me do? When I entered Melun for this affair of false money, I was
a juggler. As in the prison there was no work-shop for my trade, and as I was no stronger than
a fly, they put me at making toys for children. It was a manufacturer of Paris who found it
advantageous to have made by the prisoners his harlequins, his trumpets of wood, and his swords
of ditto. Thus, I tell you, haven't I sharpened, and cut, and carved for fifteen years, these
toys! I am sure that I supplied the pets of an entire quarter of Paris--it was, above all,
on the trumpet I excelled; and rattles too! With these two instruments one could have put on
edge the teeth of a whole battalion! I pride myself, on it. My time out, behold me with the
degree of penny-trumpet manufacturer. They allowed me to choose for my residence three or four
places, at forty leagues from Paris; I had for sole resource my knowledge of trumpet-making.
Now, admitting that, from old men to babies, all the inhabitants of the town should have had
a passion to play toot-too on my trumpets. I should have had, even then, trouble enough to
pay my expenses; but I could not seduce a whole village into blowing trumpets from morning
to night. They would have taken me for a conspirator!"

"You always laugh."

"That is better than to cry. Finally, seeing that at forty leagues from Paris my trade as a
juggler would be of no more resource to me than my trumpets, I demanded an exchange to Beaugency,
wishing to engage myself in the white-lead factory. It is a pastry which gives you an indigestion
of misery; but, until one dies from it, one has a living; it is always something gained, and
I like that trade as well as that of a robber; to steal I am not brave or strong enough, and
it was by pure chance I have committed the act of which I shall speak directly."

"You would have been brave and strong if you had only had the idea not to steal any more."

"Ah! you believe that, do you?"

"Yes, at the bottom you are not wicked; for, in this dangerous affair of false money, you had
been dragged into it in spite of yourself, almost forced--you know it well."

"Yes, my girl--but, do you see, fifteen years in a prison, that spoils a man like my old pipe
which you see, whenever it comes in the jail white as a new pipe; on coming out of Melun, then,
I felt myself too cowardly to steal."

"And you had the courage to follow a deadly calling. Hold, Fortune! I tell you that you wish
to make yourself worse than you are."

"Stop a moment, then; all greenhorn that I was, I had an idea, may the devil burn me if I know
why! that I would not care for the colic, that the malady would find too little in me to feed
on, and that it would go elsewhere; in fine, that I would become one of the old white-leaders.
On leaving the prison I began by squandering my savings, augmented, understand, by what I had
gained by relating stories at night in our ward."

"As you used to tell us in old times, my brother? It used to amuse our mother so much, do you
remember?"

"Pardieu! good woman! And she never suspected before she died that I was at Melun?"

"Never: to her last moments she thought you had gone to the islands."

"What could I do, my girl? My escapades were the fault of my father, who brought me up to play
the clown, to assist him in his juggling, to eat flax and spit fire; that was the cause that
I had not the time to associate with the sons of peers of France, and that I made bad acquaintances.
But, to return to Beaugency: once out of Melun, I spent my money as I had a right. After fifteen
years in a cage one must have a little air, and amuse one's self so much the more, as, without
being too greedy, the white lead might give me a last indigestion; then, what good would my
pension money be to me? I ask you. Finally, I arrived at Beaugency almost without a sou: I
asked for Velu, the friend of Big Cripple, the chief of the factory. Serviteur! no more manufactory
of white-lead than you could put under your hand; eleven persons had died there in one year;
the old galley-slave had shut up shop. Here I was in this village, with my talents for making
wooden trumpets for my dinner, and my convict's passport for my sole recommendation. I asked
for employment suited to my strength, and, as I had no strength, you can comprehend how I was
received; robber here, gueux there, jail bird! in fine, as soon as I made my appearance anywhere,
every one clapped their hands on their pockets; I could not, then, prevent myself from starving
with hunger in a hole which I was not to leave for five years. Seeing this, I broke my 'parole'
to come to Paris to use my talents. As I had not the means to come in a carriage and four,
I came begging all along the road; avoiding the constables as a dog does a kick. I was lucky--I
arrived without difficulty at Auteuil. I was worried, I was as hungry as the devil, I was dressed,
as you see, without profuseness." And Pique-Vinaigre cast a merry glance at his rags. "I had
not a sou; I could at any moment be arrested as a vagabond. Faith, an opportunity offered,
the devil tempted me, and, in spite of my cowardice--"

"Enough, my brother, enough," said his sister, fearing that the warder, although at this moment
some distance off, might hear the dangerous confession.

"You are afraid that some one will listen?" answered he: "be tranquil, I do not conceal it;
I was taken in the act; there are no means to deny it; I have confessed all; I know what I
have to expect; my account is good."

"Alas!" answered the poor woman, weeping, "with what ease you speak of this."

"If I were to speak of it with uneasiness, what should I gain? Come, be reasonable, Jeanne;
must I console you?" Jeanne wiped away her tears, and sighed.

"But to return to my affair," said Pique-Vinaigre; "I arrived near Auteuil in the dusk of the
evening. I could go no further; I did not wish to enter Paris but at night; I seated myself
behind a hedge to repose and reflect upon my plans. From the intensity of my thoughts I fell
asleep; a noise of voices awoke me; it was quite dark; I listened, it was a man and a woman
talking on the road, on the other side of my hedge; the man said to the woman, 'Who do you
think would rob us? have we not left the house alone a hundred times?' 'Yes,' answered the
woman, 'but then we did not leave a hundred francs in our chest.' 'Who knows it, fool?' said
the husband. 'You are right,' replied the woman, and they passed on. The chance appeared too
favorable for me to lose--there was no danger.

"I waited until they had got a little distance to come out from behind my hedge; I looked around:
at twenty steps off I saw a small cottage; that must be the house with the hundred francs;
there was no other hovel on the road but this one; Auteuil was five hundred yards off. I said
to myself, 'Courage, my old boy, there is no one there, it is night, if there is no dog (you
know I always was afraid of dogs), the affair is done.' Luckily there was no dog. To be still
more sure, I knocked against the door--nothing; that encouraged me. The shutters of the ground
floor were closed: I passed my stick between the two, I forced them, I entered through the
window into a chamber; there was some fire in the fireplace; this served as a light; I saw
a chest from whence the key had been taken; I took the tongs, I forced the drawers, and under
a heap of linen I found the treasure, wrapped up in an old woolen stocking; I did not amuse
myself by taking anything else; I jumped out of the window and I fell--guess where? There's luck!"

"Go on!"

"On the back of the watchman who was going to the village."

"What a misfortune!"

"The moon had risen, he saw me coming out of the window; he seized me. He was a giant who could
have eaten ten such as me. Too cowardly to resist, I resigned myself to my fate. I still held
the stocking in my hand; he heard the money jingle, he took it all, put it in his bag, and
compelled me to follow him to Auteuil. He went to the mayor's with the usual accompaniment
of boys and constables; they waited for the proprietors to return; they made their declaration.
I could not deny it; I confessed all, they put on the handcuffs, and off we went!"

"And here you are in prison again, perhaps for a long time!"

"Listen, Jeanne, I do not wish to deceive you, my girl, so I will tell you at once."

"What more now?"

"Come, take courage!"

"But speak, then!"

"Well! there is no more prison for me."

"How is that?"

"On account of the burglary in an inhabited house, the lawyer told me, 'It's a safe thing.'
I shall have fifteen or twenty years at the galleys and a berth in the pillory to boot."

"The galleys! but you are so weak you will die there!" cried the unhappy woman, bursting into
tears.

"How if I had enrolled myself among the white-leaders?"

"But the galleys, oh! the galleys!"

"It is a prison in the open air, with a red cap instead of a brown one, and, besides, I have
always been curious to see the ocean. What a starer I am!"

"But the pillory! To be exposed there to the contempt of all the world, oh! my brother." And
the unfortunate woman began again to weep.

"Come, come, Jeanne, be reasonable. It is a bad quarter of an hour to pass, but I believe one
is seated. And, besides, am I not accustomed to a crowd? When I played juggler I always had
people around me; I will imagine that I am at my old trade, and if it has too much effect upon
me I will close my eyes; it will absolutely be the same as if they did not see me."

Speaking with so much stoicism, this unfortunate man wished less to appear insensible of his
criminal actions than to console and satisfy his sister by this apparent indifference. For
a man accustomed to prison manners, and with whom all shame is necessarily dead--even the galleys
were only a change of condition, a "change of caps," as Pique-Vinaigre said, with frightful truth.

Many of the prisoners of the central prisons even prefer the galleys on account of the lively,
animated life which is led there, committing often attempts at murder to be sent to Brest or
Toulon. This can be imagined before they enter the galleys they have almost as much work, according
to their declaration. The condition of the most honest workman of the forts is not less rude
than that of the convicts. They enter the workshop, and leave it, at the same hour, and the
beds on which they repose their limbs, exhausted by fatigue, are often no better than those
of the galleys.

They are free, some one will say. Yes, free one day, Sunday, and this is also a day of repose
for the convict. But feel they no shame and contempt? What is shame for these poor wretches,
who, each day, bronze the soul in this infamy, in this mutual school of perdition, where the
most criminal are the most distinguished? Such are the consequences of the present system of
punishment. Incarceration is very much sought after. The galleys--often demanded.

"Twenty years in the galleys!" repeated the poor sister of Pique-Vinaigre.

"But be comforted, Jeanne; they will only pay me in my own coin; I am too feeble to be placed
at hard labor. If there is not a manufactory of trumpets and wooden swords, as at Melun, they
will give me easy work, and employ me in the infirmary. I am not refractory; I am good-natured.
I will tell stories as I do here, I will make myself adored by the keepers, esteemed by my
comrades, and I will send you some cocoanuts nicely carved, and some straw boxes for my nephews
and nieces; in short. as we make our bed, so must we lie on it!"

"If you had only written that you were coming to Paris, I would have tried to conceal and lodge
you while you were waiting for work."

"I reckoned to go to your house, but I prepared to come with my hands full; for, besides, from
your appearance I see that you do not ride in your carriage. How about your children and husband?"

"Do not speak to me about him."

"Always a rattler, it is a pity, for he is a good workman."

"He does me much harm--I have had troubles enough of my own, without having yours added to them."

"How? your husband--"

"Left me three years ago, after having sold all our furniture, leaving me with the children,
without any thing, my straw bed excepted."

"You did not tell me this!"

"For what good? It would have grieved you."

"Poor Jeanne! How have you managed, all alone with your three children?"

"Holy Virgin! I had much trouble; I worked by the job as a fringe-maker, as well as I could,
my neighbors helped me a little, taking care of my children when I went out; and then I, who
do not always have luck, had it for once in my life, but it did not profit me, on account of
my husband."

"How is that?"

"The lace-maker had spoken of my troubles to one of his customers, informing him how my husband
had left me without anything, after having sold all my furniture, and that in spite of it I
worked with all my strength to bring up my children; one day, on returning home, what do I
find? my room newly furnished, a good bed, linen, and so on; it was the charity of my lace-maker's
customer."

"Good customer! Poor sister! Why the devil did you not write me about your poverty? Instead
of spending my earnings, I would have sent you some money."

"I, free, to ask from you, a prisoner!"

"Exactly; I was fed, warmed, lodged at the expense of the government; what I earned was so
much gained; knowing that my brother-in-law was a good workman, and you a good manager, I was
easy, and I fiddled away my money with my eyes shut and my mouth open."

"My husband was a good workman, it is true, but he became dissipated; in fine, thanks to this
unexpected succor, I took fresh courage; my eldest daughter began to earn something; we were
happy, except for the sorrow of knowing that you were at Melun. Work was plenty, my children
were properly dressed, they wanted scarcely anything; that made me take heart. At length I
had even saved thirty-five francs, when, suddenly, my husband returned. I had not seen him
for a year. Finding me comfortably fixed and well clad, he made no bones about it; he took
the money, settled himself at home, got drunk every day, and beat me when I complained."

"The scoundrel!"

"This is not all: he had lodged in a room of our apartments a bad woman with whom he lived;
I had to submit to that. For the second time he began to sell little by little the furniture
I had. Foreseeing what would happen, I went to a lawyer who lived in the house, and asked him
what I should do to prevent my husband from placing me and my children on straw again."

"It was very plain, you ought to have thrust him out of doors."

"Yes, but I had not the right. The lawyer told me that my husband could dispose of everything,
and remain in the house without doing anything; that it was a shame, but that I must submit;
that the circumstance of his mistress, who lived under one roof, gave me the right to demand
the separation of bed and board, as it is called; so much the more as I had proofs my husband
beat me; that I could plead against him, but that it would cost me at least four or five hundred
francs to obtain my divorce, you may judge; it is almost all that I could earn in a year! Where
could I borrow such a sum? And, besides, it is not only to borrow--but to return. And five
hundred francs--all at once--it is a fortune."

"There is, however, a very simple way to amass five hundred francs," said Pique-Vinaigre, with
bitterness; "it is to hang up one's appetite for a year--to live on air, but work just the
same. It is astonishing that the lawyer did not give you this advice."

"You are always joking."

"Oh! this time, no!" cried Pique-Vinaigre, with indignation; "for it is infamous that the law
should be too dear for poor folks. For look at you, good and worthy mother of a family, working
with all your might to bring up your children honestly. Your husband is an arrant scoundrel;
he beats you, abuses you, robs you, and spends at the tavern the money you earn; you apply
to justice, that it may protect you, and keep from the clutches of this rascal your bread and
your children's. The people of the law tell you, 'Yes, you are right, your husband is a bad
fellow, justice shall be done you; but this justice will cost you five hundred francs.' Five
hundred francs! that would support you and your family for a whole year! Now, do you see, Jeanne?
all this proves what the proverb says, that there are only two kinds of people: those who are
hung and those who deserve to be."

Rigolett, alone and pensive, having no one else to listen to, had not lost a word of this conversation,
and sympathized deeply in the misfortunes of this poor woman. She promised herself to mention
this to Rudolph as soon as she should see him, not doubting that he would assist her.

Rigolette, feeling a lively interest in the sad fate of the sister of Pique-Vinaigre, did not
take her eyes from her, and was endeavoring to approach a little nearer, when, unfortunately,
a new visitor entering asked for a prisoner, and seated himself on the bench between Jeanne
and the grisette. She, at the sight of this man, could not restrain a movement of surprise,
almost fear. She recognized one of the two bailiffs who had come to arrest Morel, putting in
execution the judgment obtained against the jeweler by Jacques Ferrand.

This circumstance, recalling to Rigolette's mind the untiring persecutor of Germain, redoubled
her sadness, from which her attention had been slightly withdrawn by the touching and painful
communications of the sister of Pique-Vinaigre. Retreating as far as she could from her new
neighbors, the grisette leaned against the wall, and abandoned herself to her sad thoughts.

"Hold, Jeanne," resumed Pique-Vinaigre, whose jovial face had become suddenly clouded; "I am
neither strong nor brave; but if I had been there while your husband was causing you so much
misery, very playful things would not have passed between us. But you did not act rightly--you--"

"What could I do? I have been obliged to suffer what I could not prevent! As long as there
was anything to be sold, my husband sold it, so that he might go to the tavern with his mistress--everything,
even to my little girl's Sunday frock."

"But your daily earnings, why did you give them to him? Why did you not hide them?"

"I did hide them; but he beat me so much that I was obliged to give them up. It was not on
account of the blows that I yielded, but because I said to myself, in the end he will wound
me so seriously that I shall not be able to work for some time. Suppose he breaks my arm, then
what will become of me--who will take care of and feed my children? If I am forced to go the
hospital, they will die of hunger then. Thus you can imagine, my brother, I preferred to give
my money to my husband, not on account of the beating, but that I might not be wounded, and
remain able to work."

"Poor woman. Bah! they talk of martyrdom--it is you who are a martyr!"

"And yet I have never harmed any one; I only ask to work to take care of my children; but what
would you? There are the happy and unhappy, as there are the good and the wicked."

"Yes, and it is astonishing how happy the good are! But you have finally got rid of that scoundrel
of a husband?"

"I hope so, for he did not leave me until he had sold my bedstead, and the cradle of my two
little children. But I think he wished to do something worse."

"What do you mean?"

"I say him, but it was rather this bad woman who urged him; it is on that account I speak of
it. 'I say,' one day he said to me, 'when in a family there is a pretty girl of fifteen like
ours, it is very stupid not to make use of her beauty.'"

"Oh! good! I understand. After having sold the clothes, he wished to sell the body."

"When he said that, Fortune, my blood boiled; and, to be just, I made him blush with shame
at my reproaches: and as this bad woman wished to meddle in our quarrel by asserting that my
husband could do with his daughter as he pleased, I treated her so badly, the wretch, that
my husband beat me, and since that time I have not seen them."

"Look here, Jeanne, there are folks condemned to ten years' imprisonment, who would not have
done like your husband; at least, they only despoil strangers."

"At bottom he is not wicked, look you; it is bad company at the taverns which has ruined him."

"Yes, he would not harm a child; but to a grown person it is different."

"What would you have? One must take life as it comes. At least, my husband gone, I had no longer
any fear of being lamed by any blow. I took fresh courage. Not having anything to purchase
a mattress with, for before all one must eat and pay rent, and my poor daughter Catherine and
myself could hardly earn together forty sous a day, my two other children being too young to
work--for want of a mattress we slept upon a straw bed, made with straw that we picked up at
the door of a packer in our street."

"And I have squandered my earnings!"

"How could you know my trouble, since I did not tell you? Well, we doubled our work, Catherine
and I. Poor child, if you knew how virtuous, and industrious, and good she is! always with
her eyes on mine to know what I wish her to do; never a complaint, and yet--she has already
seen so much misery, although only fifteen! Ah, it is a great consolation, Fortune to have
such a child," said Jeanne, wiping her eyes.

"It is just your own picture, I see; you should have this consolation, at least."

"I assure you that it is more on her account that I complain than on my own; for, do you see,
the last two months she has not stopped working for a moment; once every week she goes out
to wash at the boats near the Pont-au Change, at three sous the hour, the few clothes my husband
left us: all the rest of the time at the stake like a poor dog. True, misfortune came to her
too soon; I knew well enough that it must come; but at least their are some who have one or
two years of tranquillity. That which has also caused me much sorrow in all this, Fortune,
is, that I could give you no assistance in anything; yet I will try."

"Do you think I would accept? On the contrary, I'll ask a sou for each pair of ears that listens
to my stories; I will ask two, or they will have to do without Pique-Vinaigre's romances, and
that will help you a little in your housekeeping. But why don't you go into lodgings? Then
your husband can't sell anything."

"In lodgings? Why, only reflect, we are four; they would ask us at least twenty sous a days;
how much would remain for our living! while our room only costs us fifty francs a year."

"That is true, my girl," said Pique-Vinaigre, with bitter irony; "work, break your back to
fix up your room a little; as soon as you get something, your husband will rob you again, and
some fine day he will sell your daughter as he has sold your clothes."

"Oh! before that he must kill me!--my poor Catherine!"

"He will not kill you, and he will sell your poor Catherine. He is your husband, is he not?
He is the head of the family, as your lawyer told you, as long as you are not separated by
law, and as you have not five hundred francs to give for that, you must be resigned; your husband
has the right to take his daughter from you, and where he pleases. Once he and his mistress
have a hankering after this poor little child, they will have her."

"But, if this infamy was possible, would there be any justice?"

"Justice," said Pique-Vinaigre, with a burst of sardonic laughter, "is like meat; it is too
dear for the poor to eat. Only, understand me, if it is in question to send them to Melun,
to put them in the pillory, or throw them into the galleys, it is another affair; they give
them this justice gratis. If they cut their throats, it is again gratis--always gratis. Ta-a-a-ake
your tickets!" added Pique-Vinaigre, imitating a mountebank; "it is not ten sous, two sous,
one you, a centime that it will cost you. No, ladies and gentlemen, it will cost you the trifle
of nothing at all; it suits every one's pockets; you have only to furnish the head--the cutting
and curling are at the expense of the government. Here is justice gratis. But the justice which
would prevent an honest mother of a family from being beaten and despoiled by a vagabond of
a husband, who wishes to make money out of his daughter, this kind of justice costs five hundred
francs; you must give it up, my poor Jeanne."

"Fortune," said the unhappy mother, bursting into tears, "you kill me!"

"And does it not kill me to think of your lot, and that of your family, and seeing that I can
do nothing? I seem always gay; but do not be deceived; I have two kinds of gayety, Jeanne;
my gayety gay, and my gayety sad. I have neither the strength nor the courage to be bad, angry,
nor malicious, as others are, that always passes over with me in words more or less farcical.
My cowardice and my weakness of body have prevented me from becoming worse than I am. It needed
the chance of this lonely hut, where there was neither cat, nor, above all, a dog, to have
urged me to steal. And then, again, it chanced to be a fine moonlight night; for alone, and
in the dark, I am as cowardly as the devil!"

"That is what I have always said, my poor Fortune, that you are better than you think. Thus
I hope the judges will have pity on you."

"Pity on me? a returned criminal? reckon on it! After that, I don't wish it; to be here, there,
or elsewhere, all the same to me; and then, you are right, I am not wicked; and those who are,
I hate them, after my fashion, by making fun of them; you must think that, from relating stories
where, to please my audience, I make it come out that those who torment others from pure cruelty
receive, in the end, their pay, I become accustomed to feel as I relate."

"Do these people like stories, my brother? I should not have thought it."

"A moment! If I tell them a story where a fellow who robs, or who kills to rob, is strung up
at the end, they will not let me finish; but if it is concerning a woman or child, or, for
example, a poor devil like me, who would be thrown to the ground if he was only blown upon,
and let him be ill-treated by a Bluebeard, who persecutes him solely for the pleasure of persecuting
him, for honor, as they say; oh! then they shout with joy when, at the end, the Bluebeard receives
his pay. I have, above all, a history called Gringalet and Cut-in-half, which created the greatest
sensation at the Centrale de Melun, and which I have not yet related here. I have promised
it for tonight; but they must subscribe largely to my money-box, and you shall profit by it.
Without extra charge, I will write it out for your children. My yarn will amuse them; very
religious people would read this story; so be easy."

"In fine, poor Fortune, what consoles me a little is, to see that you are not as unhappy as
others, thanks to your character."

"I am very sure that if I were like a prisoner of our ward, I should be hateful to myself.
Poor fellow! I am much afraid that before the end of the day he will bleed; it grows red-hot
for him; there is a bad plot formed against him for to-night."

"Oh! they wish to do him harm? you will have nothing to do with it, at least, Fortune?"

"Not such a fool! I might be spattered. As I went backward and forward among them, I heard
them muttering. They spoke of a gag, to prevent him from crying out; and then, to hinder any
one from seeing the execution, they mean to make a circle around him, pretending to listen
to one of them who should be reading a paper or something else."

"But why do they wish to injure him thus?"

"As he is always alone, and speaks to no one, because he seems disgusted with them, they imagine
he is a spy, which is very stupid; for, on the contrary, he would keep company with every one,
if he wished to spy. Besides, he has the air of a gentleman, and that eclipses them. It is
the captain of the ward, called the Living Skeleton, who is at the head of this plot. He is
like a real bloody bones after this poor Germain--their intended victim is so named. Let them
make their own arrangements--it is their business; I can do nothing. But you see, Jeanne, what
good comes from being sad in prison; right away you are suspected. I have never been suspected,
not I. But, my girl--enough talk; go and see if I am at your house; you lose too much precious
time by coming here. I can only talk; with you it is different; therefore goodnight. Come here
from time to time; you know I shall be glad to see you."

"My brother, still a few moments, I beg you."

"No, no; your children are expecting you. Ah, you do not tell them, I hope, that their uncle
is a boarder here?"

"They think you are at the islands, as my mother did formerly. In this way, I hope, I can talk
to them of you."

"Very good. Go! quickly!"

"Yes, but listen, my poor brother. I have not much, yet I will not leave you thus. You must
be cold--no stockings, and this wretched waistcoat! I will fix something for you, with Catherine's
aid. Fortune, you know that it is not the will to do something for you that is wanting."

"What? clothes? why, I have my trunks full. As soon as they arrive, I shall have wherewithal
to dress myself like a prince. Come, laugh, then, a little. No? Well! seriously, my girl, I
do not refuse, while waiting for Gringalet and Cut-in-half to fill my money-box. Then I will
return it. Adieu, my good Jeanne; the next time you come, may I love my name of Pique Vinaigre,
if I do not make you laugh. Go away; I have already kept you too long."

"But, brother, listen!"

"My good man! my good man!" cried Pique-Vinaigre to the warder seated at the other end, "I
have finished my conversation; I wish to go in; talked enough."

"Oh! Fortune, it is not kind to send me away thus," said Jeanne.

"On the contrary, it is very right. Come, adieu; keep up your courage, and to-morrow morning
say to the children that you have dreamed of their uncle, who is in the West Indies, and that
he begged you to embrace them. Adieu."

"Adieu, Fortune," said the poor woman, all in tears at seeing her brother enter the prison.

Rigolette, since the bailiff had seated himself alongside of her, had not been able to hear
the conversation of Pique-Vinaigre and Jeanne; but she had not taken off her eyes from them,
thinking how to find out the address of this poor woman, so as to be able, according to her
first idea, to recommend her to Rudolph. When Jeanne rose from the bench to leave, the grisette
approached her, saying, timidly, "Madame, just now, without wishing to listen to you, I heard
that you were a lace fringe-maker."

"Yes, my friend," answered Jeanne, a little surprised but prepossessed in favor of Rigolette
by her pleasing manners and charming face.

"I am a dressmaker," answered the grisette. "Now that fringes and lace are in fashion, I have
sometimes some customers who ask me for trimmings after their own taste; I have thought perhaps
it would be cheaper to apply to the makers; and, besides, I could give you more than your employer
does,"

"It is true; by buying the silk on my own account I should gain something. You are very kind
to think of me. I am quite surprised."

"I will speak to you frankly. I await a person I came to see; having no one to talk with, just
now, before this gentleman placed himself between us, without wishing it, I assure you, I have
heard you talk to your brother of your sorrows, of your children; I said to myself, poor folks
ought to assist each other. The idea struck me at the time that I might be of some use to you,
since you are a fringe-maker. If, indeed, what I have proposed suits you, here is my address;
give me yours, so that when I shall have a little order to give you I shall know where to find
you."

And Rigolette gave one of her cards to the sister of Pique-Vinaigre. She, quite touched at
the proceedings, said gratefully:

"Your face has not deceived me; and, besides, do not take it for pride, but you have a resemblance
to my eldest daughter, which made me look at you twice on entering. I thank you much; if you
employ me, you shall be satisfied with my work; it shall be done conscientiously. I am called
Jeanne Duport. I live at No. 1, Rue de la Barillerie."

"No. 1, it is not difficult to remember. Thank you, madame."

"It is for me to thank you, my dear, it is so kind in you to have thought at once of serving
me! Once more I express my surprise."

"Why, that is very plain, Madame Duport," said Rigolette, with a charming smile. "Since I look
like your daughter Catherine, that which you call my kindness ought not to surprise you."

"How kind! Thanks to you, I go away from here less sad than I thought; and then, perhaps, we
may meet here again, for you come, like me, to see a prisoner?"

"Yes, madame," answered Rigolette, sighing.

"Then, adieu. I shall see you again; at least, I hope so, Miss Rigolette," said Jeanne Duport,
after having cast her eyes on the address of the grisette.

"At least," thought Rigolette, resuming her seat, "I know now the address of this poor woman;
and certainly M. Rudolph will interest himself for her when he knows how unfortunate she is,
for he has always told me, 'If you know any one much to be pitied, address yourself to me.'"

And Rigolette taking her place, awaited with impatience the end of the conversation of her
neighbor, in order to be able to ask for Germain.

Now a few words on the preceding scene. Unfortunately, it must be confessed, the indignation
of the brother of Jeanne Duport was legitimate. Yes: in saying the law was too dear for the
poor, he said the truth. To plead before the civil tribunals is to incur enormous expenses,
quite out of the reach of artisans, who barely exist on their scanty wages.

Let a mother or father of a family belonging to this ever-sacrificed class wish to obtain an
obliteration of the conjugal tie; let them have all right to obtain it: will they obtain it?
No; for there is no workman in a condition to spend four or five hundred francs for the onerous
formalities of such a judgment.

Yet the poor have no other life than a domestic one; the good or bad conduct of the head of
an artisan's family is not only a question of morality; but of bread. The fate of a woman of
the people, such as we have endeavored to paint, does it deserve less interest, less protection,
than that of a rich woman, who suffers from the bad conduct or infidelities of her husband,
think you?

Nothing is more worthy of pity, doubtless, than the griefs of the heart. But when to these
griefs is added, for an unfortunate mother, the misery of her children, is it not monstrous
that the poverty of this woman places her without the law, and leaves her and her family without
defense against the odious treatment of a drunken and worthless husband?

Yet this monstrosity exists. [Footnote: Translator's Note.--How singular that, as this new
edition of the sensational romancist's work is issued, the Imperial Parliament should have
a bill to redress this very oversight before it.]

And a liberated criminal can, in this circumstance as in others, deny, with right and reason,
the impartiality of the institutions in the name of which he is condemned. Is it necessary
to say what there is in this dangerous to society, to justify such attacks?

What will be the influence, the moral authority, of those laws whose application is absolutely
subordinate to a question of money? Ought not civil justice, like criminal justice, to be accessible
to all?

When people are too poor to be able to invoke the benefits of a law eminently preservative
and tutelary, ought not society to assure the application, through respect for the honor and
repose of families?

But let us leave this woman, who will remain all her life the victim of a brutal and perverted
husband, because she is too poor to obtain a matrimonial separation by law. Let us speak of
Jeanne Duport's brother. This man left a den of corruption to enter the world again; he has
paid the penalty of his crime by expiation. What precautions has society taken to prevent his
falling back into crime? None.

Has any one, with charitable foresight, rendered possible his return to well-doing, in order
to be able to punish, as one should punish, in a becoming manner, if he shows himself incorrigible?
No.

The contagious influence of your jails is so well known, and so justly dreaded, that he who
comes out from them is everywhere an object of scorn, aversion, and alarm. Were he twenty times
an honest man, he would scarcely find occupation anywhere. And what is more: the penalty of
a ticket-of-leave banishes him to small localities, where his past life must be well known;
and here he will have no means of exercising the exceptionable employment often imposed on
the prisoners by the contractors of the maisons centrales. If the liberated convict has the
courage to resist temptation, he abandons himself to some of those murderous occupations of
which we have spoken, to the preparation of certain chemical productions, by which one in ten
perishes; or, if he has the strength, he goes to get out stone in the forest of Fontainebleau,
an employment which he survives, average time, six years! The condition of a liberated convict
is, then, much worse, more painful, more difficult, than it was before his first criminal action:
he lives surrounded by shackles and dangers; he is obliged to brave repulses and disdain--often
the deepest misery. And if he succumbs to all these frightful temptations to criminality, and
commits a second crime, you show yourself ten times more severe toward him than for his first
fault. That is unjust; for it is almost always the necessity you impose on him which conducts
him to a second crime. Yes; for it is shown that, instead of correcting him, your penitentiary
system depraves. Instead of ameliorating, it makes worse; instead of curing slight moral affections,
it renders them incurable. Your aggravation of punishment, applied without pity to the backslider,
is, then, iniquitous, barbarous, since this backsliding is, thus to express it, a forced consequence
of your penal institutions. The terrible punishment which awaits this double guilt would be
just and excusable if your prisons improved the morals, purified the prisoners, and if, at
the expiration of the sentence, good conduct was, if not easy, at least generally possible.
If any one is surprised at these contradictions of the law, what would he be when he compares
certain penalties to certain crimes--either on account of their inevitable consequences, or
on account of the disproportion which exists in their punishment? The conversation of the prisoner
whom the bailiff came to see will offer to us one of these afflicting contrasts.

CHAPTER V.

BOULARD.

The prisoner who entered at the moment that Pique-Vinaigre left it was a man of about thirty
years of age, with red hair, and a jovial, fat, and rubicund face; his middling stature rendered
still more remarkable by his enormous corpulency. This prisoner, so rosy and stout, was wrapped
up in a long, warm coat of gray swan's-down, with gaiter trousers of the same material. A kind
of hooded cap of red velvet completed the costume of this personage, who wore excellent furred
slippers. Although the fashion of wearing trinkets was over, the golden watch-chain sustained
a goodly number of fine gold seals and rings. Finally, several rings, enriched with precious
stones, sparkled on the fat red fingers of this prisoner, known as Boulard the Bailiff, accused
of breach of trust.

His visitor was Pierre Bourdin, one of the officers charged with the arrest of Morel the jeweler.
Bourdin was rather shorter, but quite as fat, and attired after his patron, whose magnificence
he admired. Having, like him, a partiality for jewels, he wore on this day a huge topaz pin,
and a long gold chain, suspended from his neck, was entwined among the buttonholes of his waist-coat.

"Good-day! faithful Bourdin; I was quite sure you would not be missing at the roll-call," said
Boulard, joyously, in a faint, cracked voice, which singularly contrasted with his fat body
and blooming face.

"Missing at the roll-call!" answered the bailiff; "I am incapable of such an act, general!"
It was thus that Bourdin, with a pleasantry at once familiar and respectful, called the bailiff,
under whose orders he acted; this military form of speech being often used among certain classes
of civil practitioners.

"I see with pleasure that friendship remains faithful to the unfortunate," said Boulard, with
cordial gayety; "yet I began to be uneasy. Three days since I wrote to you, and no Bourdin
till now."

"Imagine, general, quite a history. You recollect well the handsome viscount in the Rue de
Chaillot?"

"Saint Remy?"

"Exactly! you know how he laughed at our writs?"

"It was quite indecent."

"To be sure it was. Malicorne and I were quite stupefied at it, if that were possible."

"It is impossible, brave Bourdin."

"Happily, general, but here is the fact; this handsome viscount has got new titles."

"Has he become a count?"

"No! from a cheat he has become a robber."

"Ah! ah!"

"They are at his heels for some diamonds he has stolen; and, by way of parenthesis, they belong
to that jeweler who employed this sneak of a Morel, the lapidary whom we went to nab in the
Rue du Temple, when a tall slim jockey, with black mustaches, paid for the starved rat, and
came near pitching headforemost down the stairs Malicorne and me."

"Oh! yes, yes; I recollect. You told me that, my poor Bourdin; it was very funny. The best
of the farce was that the portress of the house emptied on your backs a saucepan of boiling soup."

"Saucepan included, general, which burst like a bomb at our feet. The old sorceress!"

"That will be taken into your charge. But this handsome viscount?"

"I tell you, then, that Saint Remy was prosecuted for a robbery, after having made his ninny
of a father believe that he had blown his brains out. An agent of the police, one of my friends,
knowing that I had for a long time tracked this lord, asked me if I could not put him on the
scent. I learned too late, at the time of our last writ, which he had escaped, that he was
burrowed in a farm at Arnouville, at five leagues from Paris. But when we arrived there it
was too late; the bird had flown!

"Besides, he had the following day paid this bill of exchange, thanks to a certain great lady,
they say. Yes, general; but no matter, I knew the rest. He had once been concealed there; he
might well enough be concealed there a second time. That is what I said to my friend in the
police. He proposed for me to lend a hand, as an amateur, and conduct him to the farm. I had
nothing to do--it was a nice party to the country--I accepted."

"Well! the viscount?"

"Not to be found. After having at first wandered around the farm, and having afterward introduced
ourselves there, we returned as wise as we went; and this is the reason I have not been able
to render myself sooner to your orders, general."

"I was very sure there was an impossibility on your part, my good fellow."

"But, if it is not improper, tell me, how the devil did you get here?"

"Vulgar people, my dear--a herd of riff-raff, who, for the miserable sum of sixty thousand
francs, of which they pretend I have despoiled them, have carried a complaint against me for
an abuse of confidence, and forced me to give up my commission."

"Really! general? Ah, well! this is a misfortune! How--shall we work no more for you?"

"I am on half-pay, my good Bourdin; here I am on an allowance."

"But who is, then, so savage?"

"Just imagine that one of the most severe against me is a liberated robber, who gave me to
collect a bill of seven hundred miserable francs, for which it was necessary to prosecute.
I did prosecute; I was paid, and I pocketed the money; and because, in consequence of speculations
which did not succeed, I have spent this money, as well as that of many others, all the rubbishing
lot have made such a brawling, that a writ was issued to arrest me, and thus you see me here,
my good fellow; neither more nor less than a malefactor."

"Take care that don't hurt you, general."

"Yes; but what is most curious is, this convict has written to me, some days since, that this
money, being his sole resource for rainy days, and that these days had now arrived (I do not
know what lie means by that), I was responsible for the crimes he might commit to escape starvation."

"It is charming, on my word!"

"Is it not? Nothing more convenient. The droll fellow is capable of giving that as an excuse.
Happily, the law knows no such accomplices."

"After all, you are only accused of an abuse of confidence, is it not, my general?"

"Certainly! Do you take me for a thief, Master Bourdin?"

"Oh! general. I meant to say there was nothing serious in all this; after all, there is not
enough to whip a cat."

"Have I a despairing look, my good fellow?"

"Not at all; I never saw you look more cheerful. Indeed, if you are condemned, you will only
have two or three months' imprisonment, and twenty-five francs fine. I know my code."

"And these two or three months I shall be allowed, I am sure, to pass at my ease in a lunatic
asylum. I have one deputy under my thumb."

"Oh! then your affair is sure."

"Hold, Bourdin, I can hardly keep from laughing; these fools who have sent me here will gain
much by it! They shall never see a sou of the money they claim. They force me to sell my commission--all
the same. I am aware of the duty I owe my predecessor. You see it is these muffs who will be
the geese of the farce, as Robert Macaire says."

"That produces the same effect on me, general; so much the worse for them."

"My good fellow, let us come to the subject which made me beg you to come here; it is touching
a delicate mission concerning a female," said Boulard, with a mysterious air.

"Ah! rogue of a general, I recognize you there! What is it? Count on me."

"I interest myself particularly in a young actress of the Folies-Dramatiques; I pay her board,
and, in exchange, she pays me in return--at least, I think so; for, my good fellow, you know,
the absent are often in the wrong. Now, I am the more tenacious to know if I am wrong, as Alexandrine--she
is called Alexandrine--has sent for some money. I have never been stingy with the fair sex;
but I do not wish to be made a fool of. Thus, before playing the generous with this dear friend,
I wish to know if she deserves it by her fidelity. I know there is nothing more absurd than
fidelity; but it is a weakness I have. You will render me, then, a friendly service, my dear
comrade, if you can for a few days have a supervision over my love, and let me know how to
act either by talking with the landlady of Alexandrine, or--"

"Sufficient, general," interrupting. "This is nothing worse than watching, spying, and following
a creditor. Have confidence in me; I shall find out if Lady Alexandrine sticks a penknife in
the contract, which appears to me quite improbable; for, without flattery, general, you are
too handsome a man, and too generous not to be valued."

"I ought to be a handsome man; yet I am absent, my dear comrade, and it is a great wrong; in
fine, I count on you to know the truth."

"You shall know it, I will answer for it."

"Ah! my dear comrade, how can I express my gratitude?"

"Come, come, now, general."

"It is understood, my good Bourdin, that in this affair your fees shall be the same as for
an arrest."

"General, I will not allow it; so long as I acted under your orders, have you not always allowed
me to grind the debtors to the quick, treble the fees of arrest, costs, which you have afterward
prosecuted to payment with as much activity as if they had been due to yourself?"

"But, my dear comrade, that is different; in my turn I will not allow--"

"General, you will humiliate me, if you do not allow me to offer you this as a feeble proof
of my gratitude."

"Very well; I shall struggle no longer with your generosity. Besides, your devotion will be
a sweet recompense for the freedom that I have always maintained in our business affairs."

"That is what I expect, my general; but can I not serve you in any other way? you must be horribly
situated here, you, who like to be so much at your ease! You are in a cell by yourself, I hope?"

"Certainly, and I arrived just in time, for I have the last vacant room. I have arranged myself
as well as I can in my cell; I am not very badly off; I have a stove; I sent for a good arm-chair;
I make three long repasts; I digest, I walk and sleep. Saving the inquietude which Alexandrine
causes me, you see I am not much to be pitied."

"But you are so much of a gourmand, general! the resources of the prison are so meager!"

"But the provision merchant who lives in this street has been created, as it were, for my service.
I have an open account with him, and every day he sends me a nice little basket; and while
on this subject, and you are ready to do me a favor, beg good Mrs. Michonneau, who, by the
way, is not so bad--"

"Ah! rogue--rogue of a general!"

"Come, my dear comrade, no evil thoughts," said the bailiff, "I am only a good customer and
neighbor. Pray dear Mrs. Michonneau to put into my basket to-morrow some pickled funny fish;
it is now in season; it will be good for my digestion, and make me thirsty."

"Excellent idea!"

"And then, let her send a hamper of Burgundy, Champagne, and Bordeaux, just like the last--she
knows what that means! and let her add two bottles of her old 1817 Cognac, and a pound of pure
Mocha, fresh ground and burned."

"I will just note down the date of the brandy, so as not to forget it," said Bourdin, taking
his notebook from his pocket.

"Since you are writing, my dear comrade, have the goodness to note down to ask at my house
for my eiderdown coverlet."

"All this shall be executed to the letter, general. Be easy; I feel now a little more assured
as to your good living. But do you take your walks pell-mell among the low prisoners?"

"Yes, and it is very gay, very animated; I come out of my room after breakfast. I go sometimes
into one court, sometimes into another; and, as you say, I mix with the dregs. I assure you
that, at the bottom, they appear to be very good fellows; some of them are very amusing. The
most abandoned assemble in what they call the Lions' Den. Ah! my dear comrade, what hangdog
faces! There is one among them named Skeleton! I have never seen his fellow."

"What a singular name!"

"He is so thin, or, rather, so fleshless, that it is no nickname; I tell you, he is frightful;
and with all this, he is provost-marshal of his ward; he is by far the greatest villain of
them all. He comes from the galleys, and he has again robbed and murdered; but his last murder
is so horrible, that he knows very well he will be condemned to death to a certainty, but he
laughs at it like fun."

"What a ruffian!"

"All the prisoners admire, and tremble before him. I put myself at once in his good graces,
by giving him some cigars; he has taken me into his friendship, and teaches me slang. I make
progress."

"Oh! oh! what a good lark! my general learning flash!"

"I tell you I amuse myself like anything. These jockeys adore me; some of them are even familiar
as relations. I am not proud, like a little gentleman, Germain, a barefoot, who has not the
means to be separate, and yet pretends to play the disdainful with them."

"But he must have been delighted to find a man so much at home as you are, to talk with, if
he is so highly disgusted with the others?"

"Bah! he did not seem to remark who I was; but had he remarked it, I should have been very
guarded to respond to his advances. He is the butt of the prison. They will play him, sooner
or later, a bad turn, and I have not, of course, any desire to partake of the aversion of which
he is the object."

"You are very right."

"That would spoil my recreation; for my promenade with the prisoners is a real promenade. Only
these robbers have not a great opinion of me, mentally. You comprehend--my accusation of a
simple abuse of confidence--it is a sad thing for such fellows. Thus they look upon me as no
great shakes, as Arnal says."

"In fact, alongside of these matadores of crime, you are--"

"A lamb, my dear comrade. Since you are so obliging, do not forget my commissions."

"Do not be uneasy, my general."

"1st Alexandrine; 2d the fish, and the hamper of wine; 3d the old 1817 Cognac, the ground coffee,
and the eiderdown coverlet."

"You shall have all. Anything more?"

"Yes, I forgot. Do you know where M. Badinot lives?"

"The broker? yes."

"Will you tell him that I reckon on his obliging disposition to find me a lawyer who is prepared
for my cause--that I shall not regard a cool thousand?"

"I will see M. Badinot, be assured, general; this evening all your commissions shall be executed,
and to-morrow you will receive what you have demanded. Adieu, and a good heart, general."

"Ta, ta!"

And the prisoner left on one side, and the visitor on the other.

Now compare the crime of Pique-Vinaigre, a robber, to the offense of Boulard, the bailliff.
Compare the point of departure from virtue of the two, and the reasons, necessities, which
have pushed them on to crime. Compare, finally, the punishment that awaits them. Coming out
of prison, inspiring everywhere fear and indifference, the liberated convict could not follow,
in the residence appointed him, the trade he knew; he hoped to be able to work at an occupation
dangerous to his life, but suitable for his strength; this resource failed him.

Then he breaks his terms of release, returns to Paris, contriving to conceal his former life
and find some work. He arrives, exhausted with fatigue, dying with hunger; by chance he discovers
that a sum of money is deposited in a neighboring house; he yields to temptation, he forces
a window, opens a desk, steals one hundred francs, and flies. He is arrested, is a prisoner.
He will be tried, condemned. For a second crime, fifteen or twenty years of hard labor and
the pillory is what awaits him. He knows it. This formidable punishment he deserves. Property
is sacred. He who, at night, breaks open your doors to take your goods ought to undergo a severe
penalty. In vain shall the culpable plead the want of work, poverty, his position so difficult
and intolerable, the wants which this position, this condition of a liberated convict, imposes
on him. So much the worse; there is but one law. Society, for its peace and safety, will and
ought to be armed with boundless power, and without pity repress these audacious attacks upon
others.

Yes, this wretch, ignorant and stupid, this corrupted and despised convict, has merited his
fate. But what shall he then deserve who, intelligent, rich, educated, surrounded by the esteem
of all, clothed with an official character, will steal--not to eat, but to satisfy some fanciful
caprice, or to try the chance of stock-jobbing? Will steal, not a hundred francs, but a hundred
thousand francs--a million? Will steal, not at night, at the peril of his life, but tranquilly,
quite at his ease, in the sight of all? Will steal, not from an unknown who has placed his
money under the safeguard of a lock, but from a client, who has placed from necessity his money
under the safeguard of the public officer, whom the law points out--imposes on his confidence?
What terrible punishment will be deserve, then, who, instead of stealing a small sum almost
from necessity, will steal wholesale a considerable amount? Would it not be a crying injustice
not to apply to him a similar punishment to that bestowed on the poor villain pushed to extremities
by misery, to theft by want? Get along! says the law. How! apply to a man well brought up the
same punishment as to a vagabond? For shame! To compare an offense of good society with a vulgar
burglary? Fie!

Thus, for the public defaulting officer: two months imprisonment. For the liberated prisoner:
twenty years hard labor, and the pillory. What can be added to these facts? They speak for
themselves.

What sad and serious reflections they give birth to. Faithful to his promise, the old warder
had called for Germain. When Boulard re-entered the prison, the door opened, Germain entered,
and Rigolette was no longer separated from her poor lover but by a slight wire railing.

CHAPTER VI.

FRANCOIS GERMAIN.

Germain's features were wanting in regularity, but a more interesting face could scarcely be
seen; his bearing was exalted; his figure graceful; his dress plain, but neat (gray trousers
and a black frock-coat closely buttoned), showed none of that slovenly carelessness so peculiar
to prisoners; his white hands bore witness of a care for his person which had still more increased
the aversion of the other prisoners; for moral perversity is almost always joined to personal
filthiness. His brown hair, naturally curled, which he wore long and parted on the side, according
to the fashion of the times, hung around his pale and dejected face; his eyes, of a beautiful
blue, announced frankness and kindness; his smiles, at once sad and sweet, expressed benevolence
and habitual melancholy; for, although very young, this unfortunate youth had experienced many
trials.

In a word, nothing could be more touching than his appearance, suffering, affecting, resigned;
as also nothing more honest, more loyal, than the heart of this young man. The cause even of
his arrest (despoiling it of the calumnious aggravations due to the hatred of Jacques Ferrand)
proved the kind-heartedness of Germain, and accused him only of a moment's thoughtlessness
or imprudence; culpable, doubtless, but pardonable, when one reflects that he was able to replace
in the desk of the notary the sum taken to save Morel the lapidary. Germain blushed slightly
when, through the grating, he perceived the fresh and charming face of Rigolette. She, according
to her custom, wished to appear gay, to encourage and cheer his spirits; but she ill-concealed
the sorrow and emotion that she had always felt since he had been imprisoned. Seated on a bench
on the other side of the railing, she held on her lap her basket.

The old warder, instead of remaining in the passage, went and seated himself near a stove at
the extremity of the room. In a few moments he fell asleep. Germain and Rigolette could talk
at their ease.

"Come, M. Germain," said the grisette, approaching her face as close as she could to the grating,
the better to examine the features of her friend, "let me see if I am satisfied with your face.
Is it less sorrowful? Hum! hum! so, so; take care; you will make me angry."

"How kind you are to come again to-day!"

"Again! what! that is a reproach."

"Ought I not, in truth, reproach you for doing so much for me--for me, who can do nothing but
thank you?"

"An error, sir; for I am also as happy from my visits as you are. So I must, in my turn, thank
you. Ah! ah! there is where I have caught you, Master Unjust. I have half a mind to punish
you for your wicked ideas, by not giving you what I have brought."

"Another kindness! how you spoil me!--oh! thank you. Pardon me if I repeat so often this word,
which you dislike!--but you leave me nothing else to say."

"In the first place, you do not know what I have brought."

"What is that to me?"

"Well, you are polite!"

"Whatever it may be, does it not come from you? Your touching kindness, does it not fill me
with gratitude, and----"

Germain could not finish, but cast down his eyes.

"And with what?" asked Rigolette, blushing.

"And with--and with devotion," stammered Germain.

"Why not add respect at once, like at the end of a letter," said Rigolette impatiently. "You
deceive me; it was not that which you intended to say. You stopped short."

"I assure you----"

"You assure me!--you assure me! I see you blush through the grating. Am I not your little friend,
your neighbor? Why do you conceal anything? Be frank, then, with me; tell me all," added the
grisette, timidly; for she only waited for an avowal from Germain to tell him openly that she
loved him. An honest and generous love, which the misfortunes of Germain had called into existence.

"I assure you," answered the prisoner, with a sigh, "that I conceal nothing from you!"

"Fie, the false man!" cried Rigolette, stamping her foot. "Well, you see this large cravat
of white wool that I brought for you?" and she took it from her basket. "To punish you for
your dissimulation, you shall not have it. I knit it for you. I said to myself, it must be
so cold, so damp, in those large prison yards, that at least he will be protected nicely with
this; he is so chilly."

"How, you?"

"Yes, you are liable to cold," said Rigolette, interrupting him. "Perhaps I recollect it well!
that did not, however, prevent you hindering me (out of delicacy) from putting any more wood
in my stove when you passed the evening with me. Oh, I have a good memory!"

"And I also-only too good!" said Germain, in an agitated voice, passing his hand over his eyes.

"Come, now, there you are becoming sad again, although I forbid it."

"How; do you wish me not to be touched, even to tears, when I think of all that you have done
for me since my detention here? And this new attention, is it not charming? Do I not know that
you encroach upon your nights to make time to come and see me? On my account you impose upon
yourself extra labor."

"That is it! Pity me then, quickly, because every two or three days I take a fine walk to come
and visit my friends, I, who adore a walk. It is so amusing to look at the shops along the
streets!"

"And to come out on such a day; such a wind!"

"A reason the more; you have no idea what funny figures you meet! Some holding on their hats
with both hands, so that the wind shall not carry them off; others, with their umbrellas turned
wrong side out like a tulip, are making incredible grimaces, shutting their eyes, while the
rain beats in their faces. Ah! this morning, during my whole walk, it was a real comedy! I
promised myself to make you laugh by telling it you. But you will not even force a smile."

"It is not my fault; pardon me, but the kind interest you have manifested for me touches my
very heart. You know it; my emotions are never gay; they are stronger than--"

Rigolette, not wishing to let him observe that, notwithstanding her prattle, she was very near
partaking his agitation, hastened to change the conversation, and replied:

"You say that your feelings are stronger than you; but there is another thing that you will
not master, although I have begged and supplicated you," added Rigolette.

"Of what do you speak?"

"Of your obstinacy in always keeping yourself apart from the other prisoners; in never speaking
to them. The warder has just told me again that, for your own interest, you should associate
with them. I am sure you will not do it. You are silent. You see well it is always the same
thing! You will not be contented until these frightful men have done you some harm!"

"You do not know the horror with which they inspire me. You do not know all the personal reasons
that I have to fly and execrate them and their fellows!"

"Alas! yes; I think I know them--these reasons. I have read the papers which you wrote for
me, and which I went to your lodgings to get after your imprisonment. There I have learned
the dangers you have incurred since your arrival in Paris, because you would not associate
yourself in crime with the scoundrel who brought you up. It was on account of the trap set
for you that you left the Rue du Temple, only telling me where you were going to reside. In
those papers I have also read something else," added Rigolette, blushing anew, and casting
down her eyes; "I have read some things--that--"

"Oh! that you should have been always ignorant of, I swear it," cried Germain, quickly, "but
for the misfortune which has fallen upon me--Ah! I interest you; be generous; pardon me these
follies; forget them. In happier times I allowed myself these dreams, as wild as they were."

Rigolette had a second time endeavored to extract an avowal from the lips of Germain, by making
allusion to passages filled with tenderness and passion, which he had formerly written and
dedicated to the recollections of the grisette; for, as we have said, he had always felt for
her a lively and sincere affection; but to enjoy the cordial intimacy of his sweet neighbor,
he had concealed this love under the mask of friendship. Rendered by misfortune still more
suspicious and timid, he could not imagine that Rigolette loved him with love: he, a prisoner,
he, withering under a terrible accusation, while before these misfortunes she had never evinced
any attachment stronger than that of a sister. The grisette, seeing herself so little understood,
suppressed a sigh, waiting--hoping for a better occasion to unfold to Germain the wishes of
her heart. She answered, then, with embarrassment: "I can easily comprehend that the society
of these bad people causes you horror, but that is no reason for you to brave useless dangers."

"I assure you that in order to follow your advice, I have several times tried to address some
of them who seemed the least criminal; but if you knew what language! what men!"

"Alas! it is true, it must be terrible."

"What is still more terrible is, to find I become more and more accustomed, habituated to the
frightful conversations which, in spite of myself, I hear all the day; yes, now I listen with
a sad apathy to the horrors which, during my first days here, aroused my indignation; thus,
I begin to doubt myself," cried he, with bitterness.

"Oh! M. Germain, what do you say?"

"By constantly living in these horrid places, our minds become accustomed to criminal thoughts,
as our hearing becomes habituated to the gross words which resound continually around us. I
comprehend now that one can enter here innocent, although accused, and leave it perverted."

"Yes, but not you--not you?"

"Yes, I; and others a thousand times better than I. Alas! those who, before conviction, condemn
us to this odious association, are ignorant of its mournful and fatal effects. They are ignorant
that almost in all cases the air which is breathed here becomes contagious--fatal to honor!"

"I pray you do not talk thus; you cause me too much sorrow."

"You ask me the cause of my growing sadness, there you have it. I did not wish to tell you;
but I have only one way of acknowledging your pity for me."

"My pity--my pity!"

"Yes, it is to conceal nothing from you. Ah, well! I acknowledge it with affright. I no longer
recognize myself. I have good reason to despise, to fly these wretches. Their presence, their
contact affects me, in spite of myself. One would say that they have the fatal power to vitiate
the atmosphere they breathe. It seems to me that I feel the corruption entering through every
pore. If they absolve me from the fault I have committed, the sight, the acquaintance of honest
men will fill me with confusion and shame. I have not yet had the enjoyment of pleasant companions;
but I dread the day when I shall find myself among honorable people, because I have the consciousness
of my weakness."

"Of your weakness?"

"Of my cowardice!"

"Of your cowardice? but what unjust ideas you have of yourself!"

"Ah! is it not to be cowardly and culpable to compound with one's duty and probity? And that
I have done!"

"You! you!"

"I! On entering here I did not extenuate the magnitude of my fault, all excusable as it was,
perhaps. Well! now it appears to me less, from hearing these robbers and these murderers speak
of their crimes with obscene jests or ferocious pride. I surprise myself sometimes envying
them their audacious indifference, and upbraiding myself bitterly for the remorse with which
I am tormented for so slight an offense compared to their misdeeds."

"But you are right; your deed, far from being blamable, is generous; you were sure of being
able to return the money which you took only for a few hours, in order to save a whole family
from ruin, from death, perhaps."

"No matter; in the eyes of the law, in the eyes of honest men, it is a robbery. Doubtless,
it is less criminal to steal for such a purpose than for any other; but it is a fatal symptom,
to be obliged, in order to excuse one's self in one's eyes, to look around for a reason. I
am no longer the equal of men without a stain. Behold me already forced to compare myself with
the degraded men with whom I live. Thus, in time, I well see, conscience is blunted, and becomes
hardened. To-morrow, I shall commit a robbery, not with the certainty of being able to restore
what I took for a laudable object, but I shall steal from cupidity, and I shall doubtless think
myself innocent in comparison to those who murder to rob. And yet, at this present moment,
there is as great a distance between me and an assassin, as there is between me and an irreproachable
man. Thus, because there are beings a thousand times more degraded than I am, my degradation
is to be excused in my eyes! Instead of being able to say, as formerly, I am as honest as the
most honest men, I will console myself by saying I am the least degraded of the wretches among
whom I am condemned to live!"

"Not always? Once out of this?"

"No matter; even if acquitted, these people know me; when they leave the prison, if they meet
me, they will speak to me as their old jail companion. If any one is ignorant of the accusation
which brought me to the assizes, these wretches will threaten to divulge it. Thus you well
see, cursed and now indissoluble links unite me to them, while, shut alone in my cell until
the day of my trial, unknown by them as they would have been unknown to me, I should not have
been assailed by these fears, which may paralyze the best resolutions. And then, alone, in
thinking of my fault, it would have been magnified instead of being diminished; the graver
it appeared to me, the greater would have been my future expiation. Thus, the more I should
have felt the need of my own pardon, the more in my poor sphere I should have tried to do good.
For it needs a hundred good actions to atone for a single bad one. But shall I ever dream of
expiating that which at this moment scarcely causes me any remorse? Hold! I feel it, I obey
an irresistible influence, against which I have struggled for a long time with all my strength.
I was educated for crime, I yield to my destiny; after all, isolated, without family, what
matters it that my destiny should be accomplished, be it honest or criminal? And yet, my intentions
were good and pure. When they wished to make me guilty, I experienced a profound satisfaction
in saying to myself: I have never been wanting in honor, and that, perhaps, was more difficult
for me than all the rest. And now--oh! it is frightful--frightful!" cried the prisoner, sobbing
in so heartrending a manner that Rigolette, deeply affected, could not restrain her tears.

Let us say, however, that Germain, thanks to his sterling probity, had struggled for a long
time victoriously, and that he felt the approaches of the malady more than he experienced in
reality. His fear of seeing his fault become of less gravity in his own eyes, proved that he
still felt all its enormity; but the trouble, apprehension, and doubts which cruelly agitated
his virtuous and generous mind were not the less alarming symptoms. Guided by the rectitude
of her understanding, by her woman's sagacity, and by the impulses of her love, Rigolette divined
that which we have just said. Although well convinced that her friend had not yet lost any
of his probity, she feared that, notwithstanding the excellence of his nature, Germain might
at some future period become indifferent to that which then tormented him so cruelly.

Rigolette, wiping her eyes, and addressing Germain, who was leaning against the grating, said
to him with a touching, serious, almost solemn accent, and in a manner he had never seen her
assume, "Listen to me, Germain; I shall express myself perhaps badly; I do not speak so well
as you; but what I shall tell you will be as truly sincere. In the first place, you were wrong
to complain of being isolated, abandoned."

"Oh! do not think that I ever forget that which your pity for me inspires you to do!"

"Just now, I did not interrupt you when you spoke of pity; but since you repeat this word,
I must say that it is not pity at all which I feel for you. I am going to explain this as well
as I can. When we were neighbors, I loved you as a brother, as a good companion; you rendered
me some little services, I rendered you others; you made me partake of your Sunday amusements,
I tried to be very lively, very agreeable, in order to thank you; we were quits."

"Quits? oh! no--I----"

"Let me speak in my turn. When you were forced to leave the house where we dwelt, your departure
caused me more regret than that of my other neighbors."

"Can it be true?"

"Yes, because they were men without care, whom certainly I ought to miss less than you; and,
besides, they did not yield themselves to be my acquaintances until I had told them a hundred
times that they could be nothing else; while you----you have at once imagined what we ought
to be to each other. Notwithstanding this you have passed with me all the time you had to spare:
you taught me to write; you gave me good advice, a little serious, because it was good: in
fine, you have been the most attentive of my neighbors, and the only one who asked nothing
of me for the trouble. This is not all; on leaving the house you gave me a great proof of confidence.
To see you confide a secret so important to a little girl like me, bless me! that made me proud.
Thus, when I was separated from you, my thoughts were oftener of you than of my other neighbors.
What I tell you now is true; you know I never tell a falsehood."

"Can it be possible you should have made this distinction between me and the others?"

"Certainly, I have made it, otherwise I should have a bad heart. Yes, I said to myself, 'No
one can be better than M. Germain; only he is a little too serious; but never mind, if I had
a friend who wished to marry to be very, very happy, certainly I should advise her to marry
M. Germain; for he would be the idol of a nice little housekeeper.'"

"You thought of me for another!" Germain could not prevent himself from saying mournfully.

"It is true; I should have been delighted to see you make a happy marriage, since I loved you
as a valued friend. You see I am frank; I tell you everything."

"I thank you from the bottom of my heart; it is a consolation for me to learn that among your
friends I was he whom you preferred."

"This was the situation of things when your troubles came. It was then that I received the
good and kind letter in which you informed me of what you called your fault; fault! which I
think--who am not a scholar--is a good and praiseworthy action; it was then that you asked
me to go for those papers which informed me that you had always loved me, without daring to
tell me so. Those papers, in which I read"--and Rigolette could not restrain her tears--"that,
thinking of my future, which sickness, or the want of work might render so painful, you left
me, if you should die a violent death, as you feared--you left me the little which you had
acquired: by force of industry and economy--"

"Yes; for if I were alive and you found yourself without work or sick, it is to me, rather
than any one else, that you would address yourself--is it not so? I count on it! speak! speak!
I am not mistaken, am I?"

"It is very plain; to whom would you have me apply?"

"Oh! hold; these are words which do good, which are a balm for many sorrows!"

"I cannot express to you what I felt on reading--what a sad word--this will, of which each
line contained a 'souvenir' of me, or a thought for my welfare; and yet I was not to know these
proofs of your attachment until you were no longer in existence. Bless me! what would you?
after such generous conduct one is astonished that love should come all at once! yet it is
very natural, is it not, M. Germain?"

The girl said these last words with such touching frankness, fixing her large black eyes on
those of Germain, that he did not understand her at first, so far was he from thinking himself
beloved by Rigolette. Yet these words were so pointed, that their echo resounded from the bottom
of the prisoner's heart; he blushed, then became pale, and cried,

"What do you say! I fear--oh! I am mistaken--I----"

"I say that from the moment in which I found you were so kind to me and in which I saw you
so unhappy, I have loved you otherwise than as a brother, and that if now one of my friends
wished to marry," said Rigolette, smiling and blushing, "it is no longer you I should recommend
to her, M. Germain."

"You love me! you love me!"

"I must then tell you myself, since you ask me."

"Can it be possible?"

"It is not, however, my fault, for having twice put you in the way to make you comprehend it.
But no, my gentleman does not wish to understand a hint; he forces me to confess these things
to him. It is wrong, perhaps; but as there is no one here but you to scold me for my effrontery,
I have less fear; and, besides," added Rigolette, in a more serious tone, and with deep emotion,
"just now you appeared to me so much afflicted, so despairing, that I did not mind it; I have
had the self-love to believe that this avowal, made frankly and from the bottom of the heart,
would prevent you from being so unhappy for the future. I thought, 'Until now I have had no
luck in my efforts to amuse or console him; my dainties take away his appetite, my gayety makes
him weep; this time at least'--oh dear me! what is the matter?" cried Rigolette, on seeing
Germain conceal his face in his hands. "There, tell me now if this is not cruel!" cried she;
"no matter what I say or what I do, you remain still unhappy; it is to be too wicked, and by
far too egotistical also. One would say there was no one but you who suffered."

"Alas, what misery is mine!" cried Germain, with, despair. "You love me, when I am no longer
worthy of you!"

"No longer worthy of me? There is no good sense in what you say now. It is as if I had said
formerly, that I was not worthy of your friendship, because I had been in prison; for, after
all, I have also been a prisoner; am I any less an honest girl?"

"But you were sent to prison because you were a poor abandoned child, while I--what a difference!"

"In fine, as to the prison, we have nothing to reproach ourselves for. It is rather I who am
presumptuous; for in my situation I ought only to think of marrying some workman. I am a foundling:
I possess nothing but my little chamber and my good courage; yet I come boldly and propose
to you to take me for a wife."

"Alas! formerly this had been the dream, the happiness of my life! but now--I, under the weight
of an infamous accusation, I should abuse your admirable generosity--your pity, which carries
you away, perhaps! no--no!"

"But," cried Rigolette, with impatience, "I tell you, it is not pity, it is love. I only think
of you! I sleep no more--I eat no more. Your sad and melancholy looks follow me everywhere.
Is that pity? Now, when you speak to me, your voice, your look, go to my heart. There are a
thousand things in you which now please me, and which I had not remarked. I love your face,
I love your eyes, I love you, I love your mind, I love your good heart; is this still pity?
Why, after having loved you as a friend, do I love you as a lover? I do not know! Why was I
lively and gay when I loved you as a friend? Why am I all changed since I love you as a lover?
I do not know. Why have I waited so long to find you both handsome and good? to love you at
once with my eyes and my heart? I do not know; or, rather, yes, I do know: it is because I
have discovered how much you loved me without ever telling it; how much you were generous and
devoted. Then love mounted from my heart to my eyes, like as a soft tear mounts there when
one is affected."

"Really, I think I am in a dream on hearing you talk thus."

"And I, then! I never should have thought it possible that I could dare to tell you all this;
but your despair compelled me! Ah, well! now that you know that I love you as my friend, as
my lover, as my husband, will you still say it is pity?"

The generous scruples of Germain were dispelled in a moment before this avowal, so artless
and courageous. A joy unlooked--for tore him from his sorrowful meditations.

"You love me!" cried he. "I believe you; your voice, your look, all tell me! I do not wish
to ask myself how I have deserved such happiness, I abandon myself to it blindly. My life,
my whole life, will not suffice to pay my debt to you! Ah! I have already suffered much, but
this moment compensates all!"

"At length you are consoled. Oh! I was very sure, very sure I should succeed!" cried Rigolette,
with a burst of charming joy.

"And is it in the midst of the horrors of a prison, and is it when everything oppresses me,
that such a felicity--" Germain could not finish. This thought recalling the reality of his
position, his scruples, for a moment forgotten, returned more cruel than ever, and he resumed,
with despair, "But I am a prisoner; I am accused of robbery; I shall be condemned perhaps;
and I would accept your valorous sacrifice! I would profit by your generous exaltation! Oh,
no! no! I am not infamous enough for this!"

"What do you say?"

"I may be condemned to years of imprisonment."

"Well!" answered Rigolette, with calmness and firmness, "they will see that I am a virtuous
girl; they will not refuse to marry us in the prison chapel."

"But I may be confined far from Paris."

"Once your wife, I will follow you; I will live in the place where you may be; I will work
there, and will come to see you every day!"

"But I shall be disgraced in the eyes of all."

"You love me more than all, don't you?"

"Can you ask me?"

"Then what matters it to you? Far from being disgraced in my eyes, I shall regard you as the
martyr of your good heart."

"But the world will condemn, calumniate your choice."

"The world! we will be the world to each other, and then let them talk."

"Finally, on coming out of the prison, my living will be precarious, miserable. Repulsed on
all sides, perhaps I shall find no employment; and then, it is horrible to think of: but if
this corruption which I dread should, in spite of myself, gain on me, what a future for you!"

"You will not be corrupted; no, for now you know I love you, and this thought will give you
strength to resist bad examples. You will think that even if every one should repulse you on
your leaving the prison, your wife will receive you with love and gratitude, very certain that
you are still an honest man. This language astonishes you, does it not? It astonishes me. I
do not know where I find what I say to you. It is from the bottom of my heart, assuredly, and
that ought to convince you; otherwise, if you disdain an offer which is made from the heart,
if you do not wish the attachment of a poor girl who--"

Germain interrupted Rigolette with warmth:

"Well! I accept--I accept; yes, I feel that it is sometimes cowardly to refuse certain sacrifices;
it is to acknowledge that one is unworthy of them. I accept, noble and courageous girl."

"True! very true this time!"

"I swear it to you; and, beside, you have spoken words which have struck me--which have given
me the courage I wanted."

"What happiness! and what have I said?"

"That for you I ought to remain an honest man. Yes, in this thought I will find the strength
to resist the detestable influences which surround me. I will brave the contagion, and will
know how to preserve worthy of your love this heart, which belongs to you!"

"Oh! Germain, how happy I am! if I have done anything for you, how you recompense me!"

"And then, do you see, although you excuse my fault, I will not forget its gravity. My task,
for the future, shall be doubled--to atone for the past, and deserve the happiness I owe to
you. For that I will do good; for, however poor one may be, the occasion is never wanting."

"Alas! that is true; those who are more unfortunate than one's self can always be found."

"In default of money--"

"One gives tears, that which I did for the poor Morels. And it is holy alms: the charity of
the heart is worth more than that which gives bread."

"In fine, you accept; you will not retract?"

"Oh! never, never, my friend, my wife; yes, my courage returns; I seem to emerge from a dream;
I doubt myself no longer! I wronged myself--happily, I wronged myself. My heart would not beat
as it does beat if it had lost its noble energy."

"Oh! Germain, how handsome you look while thus speaking! How you reanimate me, not for myself,
but for you! Now, you promise, do you not, that, now you have my love to shield you, you will
no longer fear to speak to these wicked men, in order not to excite their anger against you?"

"Be comforted. On seeing me sad and dejected, they, doubtless, accused me of being a prey to
my remorse; and in seeing me joyous and gay, they will think that I have acquired their recklessness."

"It is true; they will suspect you no more, and I shall be happy. So, no imprudence; now you
belong to me. I am your little wife!"

At this moment the warder stirred: he awoke. "Quick!" whispered Rigolette, with a smile full
of grace and maiden tenderness; "quick, my husband, give me a sweet kiss on my forehead, through
the grating; it will be our betrothal!"

And the girl leaned her face against the iron bars. Germain, profoundly affected, touched with
his lips, through the grating, the pure and white forehead. A tear from the prisoner fell like
a humid pearl. Oh! touching baptism, of this chaste, melancholy, and charming love!

"Ho! ho! already three o'clock!" said the warder, rising from his seat; "and visitors ought
to leave at two. Come, my dear," added he, addressing the grisette; "it is a pity, but you
must part."

"Oh! thank you, thank you, sir, for allowing us to talk alone. I have given Germain good courage;
he will no longer look so sorrowful, and thus he will have nothing more to fear from his wicked
companions. Is it not so, my friend?"

"Be tranquil," said Germain, smiling; "I shall be for the future the gayest in the prison."

"Very good; then they will pay no more attention to you," said the warder.

"Here is a cravat which I have brought for Germain," said Rigolette; "must I leave it at the
office?"

"It is the rule; but, after all, while I have already transgressed orders, in for a lamb, in
for a sheep--come, make the day complete; give him quickly the present yourself." And the warder
opened the door.

"The good man is right; the happiness of the day will be complete," said Francois Germain,
on receiving the cravat from the hands of Rigolette, which he tenderly pressed. "Adieu! Now
I have no longer any fear to ask you to come and see me as soon as possible."

"Nor I to promise it. Adieu, good Germain!"

"Farewell, my own darling!"

"And be sure to make use of my cravat; take care you do not catch cold; it is so damp."

"What a handsome cravat! When I think that you made it for me! Oh! I will always keep it,"
said Germain, carrying it to his lips.

"Now you will have some appetite, I hope. Do you wish that I should make my little dish for you?"

"Certainly, and this time I will do it honor."

"Do not be uneasy, then, Mister Glutton; you shall give me your opinion. Come, once more, adieu.
Thank you, Mister Warder; today I go away very happy and gratified. Adieu, Germain."

"Adieu, my little wife: soon again!"

"Forever yours!"

Some moments after, Rigolette, having put on her pattens, left the prison with a lighter heart
than when she entered it. During the conversation of Germain and the grisette, other scenes
were passing in one of the courts of the prison, where we shall now conduct the reader.

CHAPTER VII.

THE LION'S DEN

If the material aspect of a vast house of detention, constructed with every reference to comfort
and salubrity claimed by humanity, presents, as we have said, nothing gloomy or sinister, the
sight of the prisoners causes a contrary impression. A person is commonly touched with sadness
and pity when he finds himself in the midst of a crowd of female prisoners, in thinking that
these unfortunates are almost always forced to crime less from their own will than by the pernicious
influence of the first who betrayed them. And then, again, women, the most criminal, preserve
at the bottom of the heart two holy ties, which the violent action of passions the most detestable,
the most impetuous, never breaks entirely--Love and Maternity! To speak of love and maternity,
is to say that with these poor creatures a soft and pure emotion can still light up here and
there the profound gloom of a wretched corruption. But with men, such as the prison makes them
and casts into the world, there is nothing similar. It is crime of one cast; it is a lump of
brass, which only becomes red in the fire of infernal passions. Thus, at the sight of the criminals
who encumber the prisons, one is at first seized with a shudder of alarm and horror. Reflection
alone leads you to thoughts more compassionate, but of great bitterness. Yes, of great bitterness;
for one reflects that the vicious population of jails and hulks, the bloody harvest of the
executioner, springs up from that mire of ignorance, of misery, and of stupidity. To comprehend
this alarming and horrible proposition, let the reader follow us into the Lions' Den. One of
the courts of La Force is thus called. There are ordinarily placed the prisoners most dangerous,
for their previous ferocity, or for the gravity of the accusations which rest upon them. Nevertheless,
it had been found necessary to add to their number temporarily, in consequence of the repairs
now going on in the prison, several other prisoners. These, although equally under the jurisdiction
of the Court of Assizes, were almost honest people compared to the habitual inmates of the
Lions' Den. The gloomy, dark, and rainy sky cast a mournful light on the scene we are going
to describe. It took place in the middle of the court, which was a vast quadrangle, formed
by high white walls, pierced here and there by some grated windows.

At one of the ends of this court was seen a narrow wicket door; at the other, the entrance
to the sitting-room; a large paved hall, in the middle of which was a cast-iron stove, surrounded
by wooden seats, on which were stretched several prisoners, talking among themselves. Others,
preferring exercise to repose, were walking in the courts, in close ranks, four and five together,
With locked arms.

One should possess the energetic and somber pencil of Salvator or of Goya to sketch these diverse
specimens of physical and moral ugliness; to describe their hideous habiliments, the variety
of costume of these wretches, covered for the most part with miserable clothing; for, only
being attainted, that is to say, supposed innocents, they were not dressed in the uniform of
the penitentiaries; some of them, however, wore it; for, on their entrance into prison, their
rags had appeared so dirty, so infectious, that, after the customary bath, they had given to
them the cap and coarse gray trowsers of the convict. A phrenologist would have attentively
studied these ghastly and bronzed faces, with their flat foreheads, their cruel and insidious
glances, wicked mouths, and brawny necks; almost all offered a frightful resemblance to the
brute. On the cunning features of this, one would find the subtle perfidy of the fox; on another,
the sanguinary rapacity of the bird of prey; on a third, the ferocity of the tiger; and on
another, again, the animal stupidity of the brute. The circular walk of this band of silent
beings, with bold and contemptuous looks, an insolent and cynical laugh, pressing one against
the other, at the bottom of this court, offered something strangely suspicious. It caused a
shudder to think that this ferocious horde would be, in a given time, again let loose among
mankind, against whom they had declared an implacable warfare. How much sanguinary revenge,
how many murderous projects, lurk under this appearance of brazen and jeering perversity!

Let us sketch some few of the prominent physiognomies of the Lions' Den, let us leave the others
in the background. While one of the warders watched those who were walking, a kind of meeting
was held in the hall, Among those who were present, we will find Barbillon and Nicholas Martial,
of whom we shall speak only to remind the reader of their presence. He who appeared to preside
and conduct the discussion was a prisoner nicknamed Skeleton. He was provost-marshal or captain
of the hall. This man, of a good height, and about forty years of age, justified his appropriate
nickname by a leanness impossible to be described, which we should call almost osteological.
If the physiognomies of his companions offered more or less analogy to that of the tiger, the
vulture, or the fox, the form of his retreating forehead, and his bony, lank, and protruding
jaws, supported by a neck of immense length, resembled entirely the conformation of a serpent's
head. Total baldness increased this resemblance still more, for, under the rough skin of this
reptile-shaped forehead, could be distinguished the slightest protuberances, the smallest sutures
of his skull; as to his visage, let one imagine some old parchment drawn over the face, and
only slightly tightened from the cheek-bone to the angle of the lower jaw, the ligament of
which was plainly visible. The eyes, small and squinting, were so deeply sunken, the eyebrows
and cheek-bones so prominent, that under the yellowish forehead could be seen two sockets,
literally filled with darkness, and, at a small distance, the eyes seemed to disappear in the
bottom of these cavities, two black holes, which give such a horrible appearance to a skull.
His long projecting teeth were almost constantly displayed by an habitual grin. Although the
emaciated muscles of this man were almost reduced to the condition of tendons, he was of extraordinary
strength. The most robust resisted with difficulty the grasp of his long arms and long, bony
fingers. It could be called the grasp of an iron skeleton. He wore a blue smock-frock, much
too short, which disclosed, and he was proud of them, his sinewy hands, and the lower part
of his arms, or rather bones (the radius and the cubitus the reader will pardon the anatomical
designations), wrapped in a rough, blackened skin, and separated by some hard and cord-like
veins. When he placed his hands on a table, he seemed to use a just metaphor of Pique-Vinaigre
to play a game of cockles.

After having passed fifteen years of his life at the galleys for robbery and attempt at murder,
he had broken his ticket-of leave, and had been taken in the act of murder and robbery. This
last assassination had been committed under circumstances of such ferocity, that, taking into
account he was a robber, this bandit looked upon himself, with good reason, as already condemned
to death. The influence which the living Skeleton exercised over the other prisoners by his
strength and his perversity, had caused him to be chosen by the director of the prison provost
of the dormitory; that is to say, he was charged with the government of his ward, as far as
regarded the order, arrangements, and neatness of the room and beds. He acquitted himself perfectly
of these functions; and never had the prisoners dared to fail in the duties of which he had
the superintendence. Strange and significant. The most intelligent directors of prisons, after
having tried to invest with the functions of which we speak the prisoners who most recommended
themselves by their good conduct, or whose crimes were less grave, had found themselves obliged
to deviate in their choice, however logical and moral, and seek for provosts among prisoners
the most corrupted, the most feared: these alone could exercise any influence over their companions.

Thus, let us repeat it again, the more a culprit shows audacity and impudence, the more he
will be regarded, and, thus to speak, respected. This fact, proved by experience, sanctioned
by the forced choice of which we have spoken, is an irrefragable argument against the evil
of an imprisonment in common, I say.

Does it not show, even to an absolute evidence, the intensity of the contagion which mortally
attacks prisoners in whom there is some hope of restoration? Yes, for what use of thinking
of repentance, amendment, when, in this pandemonium, where one must pass many years--his life,
perhaps--it is seen that influence is measured by the number and gravity of misdeeds? The provost
of the hall was talking with several prisoners, among whom were Barbillon and Nicholas Martial,
we repeat.

"Are you very sure of what you say?" asked he of Martial.

"Yes, yes, a hundred times, yes; Micou had it from Big Cripple, who already wanted to kill
the muff, because he betrayed some one."

"Then let some one eat his nose, and put a stop to this!" added Barbillon. "Just now, Skeleton
was for giving a stab to this spy Germain."

The provost took his pipe for a moment from his mouth, and said, in a voice so low, so crapulously
hoarse, that he could scarcely be heard, "Germain holds up his head; he is a spy; he troubles
us: for the less one talks, the more one listens. We must make him clear out of the Lions'
Den. Once we make him bleed, they will take him from here."

"Well, then," said Nicholas, "what change is that?"

"There is this change," replied Skeleton, "that if he has sold us, as Big Cripple says, he
shall not escape with a small bleeding."

"Very good," said Barbillon.

"There must be an example," said Skeleton, becoming more animated. "Now it is no longer the
grabs who find us out: it is the spies. Jacques and Gauthier guillotined the other day. Roussillon,
sent to the galleys for life, sold!"

"And me, and my mother, and Calabash, and my brother at Toulon!" cried Nicholas, "have we not
been sold by Bras-Rouge? That is certain now, since, instead of putting him here, they have
sent him to La Roquette! They did not dare leave him with us; he knew his treachery, the sneak!"

"And," said Barbillon, "has not Bras-Rouge also sold me?"

"And me," said a young prisoner, in a shrill and reedy voice, lisping in an affected manner,
"I was betrayed by Jobert, a man who proposed an affair in the Rue Saint Martin."

This last personage, with the reedy voice, a pale, fat, and effeminate face, and an insidious
and cowardly expression, was dressed in a singular manner. He had on his head a red handkerchief,
which allowed two locks of white hair to be seen plastered on his temples; the ends of the
handkerchief formed a bow over his forehead; he wore, for a cravat, a shawl, of white merino
with green palms in the corners on his bosom; his jacket, of maroon colored cloth, disappeared
under the tight waistband of his ample trousers, made of gay Scotch plaid.

"If this is not an indignity! Must a man be a scoundrel?" resumed this gentleman with the pretty
voice. "Nothing in the world would have made me suspect Jobert."

"I know that he informed against you," answered the Skeleton, who seemed to patronize this
prisoner particularly. "The proof is, that they have done with him as they did with Bras-Rouge;
they did not dare leave Jobert here; they locked him up at the Conciergerie. Well, this must
be put a stop to: we must have an example. Our traitor brothers carve out work for the police.
They think they are sure of their necks because they are put in a different prison from those
they have betrayed."

"It is the truth."

"To prevent this, every prisoner must look upon all turncoats as deadly enemies: if they have
blown on Tony, Dick, or Harry, it matters not which pounce on them. When we have done the job
for four or five in the court, the others will wag their tongues twice before they blow the gaff!"

"You are right," said Nicholas; "Germain must die!"

"He shall die," answered the provost; "but let us wait until Big Cripple comes. When he shall
have proved to everybody that" Germain is a spy, enough said: the sheep will bleat no more;
his breath shall be stopped."

"And what shall we do with the warders, who watch us!" asked the prisoner whom the Skeleton
called Ja-votte.

"I have my own idea. Pique-Vinaigre shall serve us."

"He? He is too cowardly."

"And not stronger than a mouse."

"Enough. I understand. Where is he?"

"He returned from the grate, some one came for him to go and patter with his Newgate lawyer."

"And Germain. Is he still at the grate?"

"Yes; with the little mot who comes to see him."

"As soon as he descends, attention. But we must wait for Pique-Vinaigre; we can do nothing
without him."

"Without Pique-Vinaigre?"

"No."

"And Germain shall be--"

"I will take charge of it."

"But with what? They have taken away our knives."

"And these hooks--will you put your neck between them?" asked Skeleton, opening his long fingers,
hard as iron.

"Choke him?"

"A little."

"But if they know it is you?"

"What's the odds? Am I a calf with two heads, such as is shown in the fair?"

"That is true. One can only be made a head shorter once; and since you are sure of being--"

"Doubly sure; the lawyer told me so yesterday. I have been taken with my hand in the pocket,
and my knife in the throat, of the stiff 'un; I am a second comer; it is all over with me.
I will send my head to see, in the basket, if it is true that they cheat the condemned, and
put sawdust in, instead of bran, which the government allows us."

"It is true; the guillotined has a right to his bran. My father was cheated, I recollect,"
said Nicholas Martial, with a ferocious chuckle.

This abominable pleasantry made all the prisoners laugh loudly.

"A thousand thunders!" cried Skeleton. "I wish all the nobs could hear us talk, who think to
make us quake before the guillotine. They have only to come to the Barriere Saint Jacques the
day of my benefit; they will hear me crack jokes with the crowd, and say to Jack, in a bold
voice, 'Open the door till I go down into the cellar!' Renewed laughter followed this sally.

"The fact is, that the affair lasts as long as it takes to swallow a mouthful. Draw the bolt;
and he opens the devil's door for you!" said Skeleton continuing to smoke his pipe.

"Ah, bah! is there a devil?"

"Fool! I said that for a joke. There is a knife; a head is placed under, and that is all."

"Besides, is that our business?"

"As for me, now that I know my road, and that I must stop at the tree, I would as soon go today
as tomorrow," said Skeleton, with savage energy. "I wish I was there now. I feel my blood in
my mouth when I think of the crowd who will be there to see me. There will be four or five
thousand who will fight or quarrel for places. They will hire out windows and chairs as for
a procession. I hear them already cry, 'Window to let! Place to let!' And then there will be
the troops, cavalry and infantry. And all this for me--for old Boulard. It is not for an honest
man that they take all this trouble, hey, Sals! Here is something to make a man proud. Even
he should be as cowardly as Pique-Vinaigre, it would make him resolute. All these eyes which
are looking at you give you courage, and it is but a moment to pass, you die boldly; that vexes
the judges and the duffers, and encourages a flash cove to die game."

"That is true," replied Barbillon, endeavoring to imitate the frightful boasting. "They think
to make us afraid, and confess all, when they send Ketch to open shop on our account."

"Bah!" said Nicholas, in his turn. "One is not wrong to laugh at the scaffold; it is like the
prison and the galleys; we laugh at them also; so long as we are all friends together, 'A short
life and a merry one!'"

"For instance," said the prisoner with the lisping voice, "what would be tough would be to
keep us in cells day and night."

"In cells!" cried Skeleton, with a kind of savage alarm. "Do not speak of it. In cells! All
alone! I would rather they would cut off my arms and legs. All alone! Between four walls! All
alone! No old mates to laugh with! That cannot be! I prefer a hundred times the galleys to
the prisons, because at the galleys, instead of being shut up, one is out of doors, sees company,
moves about. Well! I would rather a hundred times be a head shorter than be put into a cell
only for one year. See here, at this moment, I am sure of being cut down, am I not? Well, let
them say to me, 'Would you prefer a year in a cell?' I would stretch out my neck. A year all
alone! Can this be possible? What would they have one think of when one is all alone?"

"If they were to put you there by force?"

"I would not remain. I would make such use of my feet and hands that I would escape," said
Skeleton.

"But if you could not--if you were sure that you could not escape?"

"Then I would kill the first one I could, in order to be guillotined."

"But if, instead of condemning the red-handed to death, they condemned them to a solitary cell
for life?"

Skeleton seemed to be staggered by this reflection. After amoment's pause he replied:

"Then I do not know what I should do. I would break my head against the walls. I would allow
myself to die with hunger rather than be in a cell. How? All alone--all my life alone with
myself? without the hope of escape? I tell you it is not possible. You know there is no one
bolder than I am. I would bleed a man for a crown, and even for nothing, for honor. They think
that I have only assassinated two persons; but if the dead could speak, there are five who
could tell how I work." The brigand boasted of his crimes. These sanguinary egotisms are among
the most characteristic traits of hardened criminals. A prison governor told us,"If the pretended
murders of which these wretches boast were real, population would be decimated."

"So I say," replied Barbillon, boasting in his turn; "they think that I only laid out the milkwoman's
husband in the city; but I have served many others out, with Big Robert, who was shortened
last year."

"It was only to tell you," said Skeleton, "that I neither fear fire nor the devil. But, if
I were in a cell, and very sure of not being able to escape--thunder! I believe I should be
afraid."

"Of what?" asked Nicholas.

"Of being all alone," answered the cock of the walk.

"So, if you had to recommence your robberies and murders, and, instead of prisons and galleys
and guillotine, there were only cells, you would hesitate?"

"Yes--perhaps" (a fact), answered the Skeleton.

And he spoke the truth. A noisy burst of laughter, and exclamations of joy proceeding from
the prisoners who were walking in the court, interrupted the meeting. Nicholas rose precipitately,
and advanced toward the door to ascertain the cause of this unaccustomed noise.

"It is the Big Cripple!" cried Nicholas, returning.

"The Big Cripple?" said the provost; "and Germain, has he descended from the talking-room?"

"Not yet," said Barbillon.

"Let him hurry, then," said Skeleton, "that I may give him an order for a new coffin."

CHAPTER VIII.

THE PLOT.

Big Cripple, whose arrival had been hailed by the prisoners in the Lions' Den with such noisy
joy, and whose denunciation was to be so fatal to Germain, was a man of middle stature; notwithstanding
his obesity and his infirmity, he seemed active and vigorous. His bestial physiognomy, as was
the case with most of his companions, much resembled a bull-dog's; his low forehead, his little
yellow eyes, his falling cheeks, his heavy jawbones, of which the lower projecting beyond the
other was armed with long teeth, or rather, broken tusks, which protruded over the lips, rendered
this animal resemblance still more striking; he had on his head an otter-skin cap, and wore
over his coat a blue cloak with a fur collar. He entered the hall, accompanied by a man of
about thirty years of age, whose brown and sunburnt face seemed less degraded than those of
the other prisoners, although he affected to appear as resolute as his companion; sometimes
his face became clouded, and he smiled bitterly. The Cripple found himself, to use a vulgar
expression, quite at home. He could hardly reply to the felicitations and welcomes which were
addressed to him from all sides.

"Here you are at last, my jolly bloke! So much the better; we shall have a laugh."

"We wanted you, old son!"

"You have stayed away a long time."

"Yet I have done all I could to return to my friends. It is not my fault if they would not
have me sooner."

"Just so, my crummy mate; no one will come of his own accord to be caged; but once there, one
must enjoy himself."

"You are in luck, for Pique-Vinaigre is here."

"He also? an old Melun chum! famous, famous, he will help us pass the time with his stories,
and customers will not be wanting, for I announce some recruits."

"Who then?"

"Just now, at the office, while they were enrolling me, they brought in two young coves. One
I do not know; but the other, who wore a blue cotton cap and a gray blouse, struck my eye.
I have seen the fellow somewhere. I think it was in the White Rabbit: a very fine-looking prig."

"Say now, Big Cripple, do you recollect at Melun, I bet you, before a year you would be nabbed?"

"That is true; you have won; but I had more chances to be a second comer than to be medaled;
but what have you done?"

"On the American lay."

"Ah! good, always the same fashion!"

"Always; I go my own nice little road. This trick is common; but yokels are also common; and
if it had not been for the ignorance of my bonnet, I should not be here."

"Never mind, the lesson will be of service."

"When I begin again, I will take my precautions; I have my plan."

"Ah, here is Cardillac," said the Cripple, seeing a man approach, miserably dressed, with a
low, cunning, and wicked expression, which partook of the fox and the wolf "Good-day, old man."

"Come, come, limpy," answered Cardillac, gayly; "they said every day, 'He will come.' You do
like the pretty women one must wish for."

"Yes, yes."

"Oh!" continued Cardillac, "is it for something a little uppish that you are here?"

"My dear, I went in for burglary. Before, I had done some good business; but the last failed,
a superb affair; which, however, still remains to be done. Unfortunately, me and Frank, whom
you see, missed our mark!" He pointed to his companion, on whom all eyes were turned.

"So it is true, here is Frank!" said Cardillac. "I would not have known him on account of his
beard. Is it you? I thought that at this present moment you were at least the mayor of your
district. You wished to play honest?"

"I was a fool, and I have been punished," said Frank, roughly; "but pardon for all sinners;
it was good for once; now I belong to the forty until I die; look out when I am released; hang
'em!"

"Very good, that is the style!"

"But what has happened to you, Frank?"

"What happens to all liberated prisoners who are fools enough, as you say, to play honest.
Their fate is so just! On coming out of Melun, I had saved nine hundred and odd francs."

"It is true," said the Cripple, "all his misfortunes come from his haying saved this money
instead of spending it. You will see what repentance leads to, and whether one pays his expenses
by it."

"They sent me to Etampes," resumed Frank; "locksmith by trade, I went to seek employment. I
said, 'I am a released convict; I know no one likes to employ them, but here are 900 francs
of my savings; give me work, my money shall be your guarantee; I wish to labor and be honest.'"

"On my word, there is no one but Frank could have such ideas."

"I proposed, then, my savings as a guarantee to the master locksmith, so that he might give
me work. 'I am not a banker, to take money on interest,' said he. 'I do not wish convicts in
my shop; I work in houses, open the doors the keys of which are lost; my trade is a confidential
one, and if it were known that I had a convict among my workmen, I should lose my customers.
Goodnight, neighbor.' Did he not, Cardillac, get what he deserved?"

"Most certainly."

"Childish!" added the Cripple, addressing Frank in a paternal manner, "instead of tearing your
ticket at once, and coming to Paris to fritter away your savings, so as to be without a sou
in your pocket, and compelled to rob. Then one finds superb ideas."

"You tell me always the old story," said Frank, with impatience; "it is true, I was wrong not
to spend my money, since I have not enjoyed it. As there were only four locksmiths at Etampes,
he to whom I had first spoken had blabbed; when I addressed myself to the others, they told
me the same as their fellow. Thank you; everywhere the same song. So you see, friends, where
is the use? We are marked for life! Behold me on a strike in the streets of Etampes! I lived
on my money for two months," said Frank; "the money went, and no work came. I broke my leave.
I left Etampes."

"That's what you should have done before."

"I came to Paris; then I found some work; my master did not know who I was. I told him I came
from the country. There was no better workman than myself. I placed 700 francs, which remained
of my savings, with a broker, who gave me a note; when it fell due, he did not pay; I placed
my note in the hands of an attorney, who sued and recovered; I left my money with him, and
I said to myself, 'It is for a rainy day.' Then I met the Big Cripple."

"Yes, pals, and I was his rainy day, as you will see. Frank was a locksmith; he manufactured
keys; I had an affair in which he could serve me; I proposed it to him; I had impressions;
he had only to copy them. The lad refused; he wished to become honest; I said to myself, 'I
must do him good in spite of himself.' I wrote a letter, without a signature, to his master,
another to his companions, to inform them that Frank was a released convict. The master turned
him out of doors, and his companions turned their backs upon him. He went to another master;
worked there a week; same game. If he had gone to ten more I would have served him the same."

"I did not then suspect that it was you who denounced me," said Frank, "otherwise you might
have had it hot!"

"Yes; but I was no fool; I told you I was going to Longjumeau to see my uncle; but I remained
at Paris; and I knew all you did through little Ledru."

"In short, they drove me away from my last master like a beggar, fit only to hang. Work then!
be peaceable! so that one may say to you, not, What are you doing? but, What have you done?
Once in the street, I said to myself, 'Happily I have my money left.' I went to the attorney;
he had cleared out-my money was gone--I was without a you. I had not enough to pay my week's
rent. You ought to have seen my rage! Thereupon Big Cripple pretended to arrive from Longjumeau;
he profited by my anger. I did not know on what peg to hang myself. I saw there was no means
to be honest; that, once a robber, one was in for it for life! the Cripple kept so close at
my heels."

"Let Frank scold no more," said the Cripple, "he took his part boldly; he entered into the
put-up thing; it promised great things. Unfortunately, the moment we opened our mouths to swallow
the morsel--nabbed by the police! What would you, it is a misfortune. The trade would be too
fine without this."

"I don't care. If that confounded lawyer had not robbed me, I should not be here," said Frank,
with rage.

"The Skeleton is here!" said Cardillac, pointing out the provost, who had just appeared at
the door, to his companion.

"Cadet, advance at the call!" said Skeleton to the Cripple.

"Here!" he answered, advancing into the hall, accompanied by Frank, whom he took by the arm.
During the conversation of Cripple, Frank and Cardillac, Barbillon had gone, by orders of the
provost, to recruit twelve or fifteen prisoners, picked men. These, not to excite the suspicions
of the keeper, had gone separately to the hall. The other prisoners remained in the yard; some
of them, following the instructions of Barbillon, spoke in a loud, quarrelsome tone, to attract
the notice of the keeper, and thus call his attention away from the hall, where were soon assembled
Barbillon, Nicholas, Frank, Cardillac, Big Cripple, the Skeleton, and some fifteen other prisoners,
all waiting with impatient curiosity until the provost should take the chair. Barbillon, charged
as spy to announce the approach of the superintendent, placed himself near the door. The Skeleton,
taking his pipe from his mouth, said to the Big Cripple:

"Do you know a young man named Germain, with blue eyes, brown hair, and the air of a swell cove?"

"Germain here!" cried Cripple, whose features expressed at once surprise, hatred, anger.

"You do know him, then?"

"Don't I know him? My friend, I denounce him, he is a betrayer! he must be rolled up!"

"Yes, yes!" said the prisoners together.

"Is it very sure that he has denounced?" asked Frank. "Suppose you should be mistaken, and
injure a man who does not deserve it?"

This observation displeased the Skeleton, who leaned toward the Cripple, and whispered:

"Who is this?"

"A man with whom I have worked."

"Are you sure of him?"

"Yes; only he is not made of gall--but treacle!"

"Enough; I'll keep my eye upon him."

"Let us hear how Germain is a spy," said a prisoner.

"Explain yourself, Cripple," resumed the Skeleton, who watched Frank closely.

"Here you are," said the Cripple. "A Nantes man, named Velu, an old convict, brought up this
young fellow, whose parents are unknown. When he was old enough, he placed him in a banking-house
at Nantes, intending to make use of him for an affair he had in view. He had two strings to
his bow--a forgery, and robbery of the banker's strong box! perhaps a hundred thousand francs
to gain by the two. All is ready; Velu counted on the young man as on himself; this blackguard
slept in the room where the strong box was kept; Velu told him his plan; Germain neither said
yes nor no, but told his master all about it, and left the same evening for Paris."

The prisoners uttered violent threats and murmurs of indignation.

"If he is a betrayer, we must settle him."

"If any one wishes it, I'll pick a quarrel, and I'll brain him."

"We must write on his face an order for the hospital."

"Silence in the gang!" cried Skeleton, in an imperious tone. "Continue!" he said to the Cripple;
and he recommenced smoking.

"Believing that Germain had said yes, counting on his aid, Velu and two of his mates attempted
the affair the same night; the banker was on his guard, one of Velu's pals was nabbed in climbing
in at a window, and he himself had the luck to escape. He arrived in Paris, furious at having
been betrayed by Germain, and foiled in a tip-top job. One fine day he met the nice young man;
it was broad day; he did not dare to touch him; but he followed him, he saw where he lived,
and one night me, Velu, and little Ledru pounced upon Germain. Unfortunately he escaped us;
he left his nest in the Rue du Temple, and since that time we have not been able to find him;
but if he is here, I demand----"

"You have nothing to demand," said the Skeleton, with authority. The Cripple was silent. "I
take your bargain; or make over to me the skin of Germain, I'll take it off. I am not called
Skeleton for nothing. I am dead in advance; my grave is already dug at Clamart; I risk nothing
in working for the leary coves: the spies devour us more than the police; they place the turncoats
of La Force at La Roquette, and those of La Roquette at the Conciergerie, where they think
themselves safe. Stop a bit, when each prison shall have killed its pet, no matter where he
has denounced, that will take away the appetite from the others. I set the example--they will
follow."

All the prisoners, admiring the resolution announced, crowded around him. Barbillon himself,
instead of remaining at the door, joined the group, and did not perceive that a new prisoner
had entered the hall. This newcomer, clothed in a gray blouse, and wearing a cap of blue cotton
embroidered with red wool, pulled well over his eyes, started on hearing the name of Germain;
then he went in among the Skeleton's admirers and loudly approved both with voice and gesture
the determination of the provost.

"Isn't Bones a mad-cap?" said one.

"What a learned man!"

"The devil himself could not scare him."

"There's a man!"

"If all the family had his cheek, it would be they who would judge and guillotine the honest
fools."

"That would be just: every one in his turn."

"Yes; but they won't agree upon that subject."

"All the same; he renders a famous service to the family by killing them; betrayers will denounce
no more."

"That is certain."

"And since Skeleton is so sure of being cut down, it costs him nothing to kill beggars."

"I think it cruel to kill this young man!" said Frank.

"What: what!" cried Skeleton, in an angry tone; "one has no right to pay off a traitor?"

"Yes, true, he is a traitor; so much the worse for him," said Frank, after a moment's reflection.

These last words, and the assurances of Cripple, calmed the suspicions which Frank for a moment
had raised among the prisoners. Skeleton alone remained doubtful.

"What shall we do with the keeper?"

"Tell us, Doomed-to-Death," said Nicholas, laughing.

"Well! some will engage his attention on one side."

"No: we will hold him by force."

"Yes."

"No."

"Silence in the gang!" cried Skeleton. The most profound quiet ensued.

"Listen to me well," resumed the provost, in a hoarse voice, "there are no means to do the
job while the keeper is in the ward, or the court. I have no knife; there will be some stifled
cries--the sneak will struggle."

"Then what is to be done?"

"This is my plan: Pique-Vinaigre has promised to relate to us to-day, after dinner, his story
of Gringalet and Cut-in-half. It rains, we will all retire here, and the beggar will come and
take his seat in the corner, in his usual place. We will give some sous to Pique-Vinaigre to
make him commence his story. It will be the dinner hour. The keeper, seeing us quietly occupied
in listening to the nonsense, will have no suspicions; he will go and take a pull at the canteen.
As soon as he has left the court, we have a quarter of an hour to ourselves--the turncoat will
be done up before the warder returns. I take it upon myself. I have done the trick for stouter
fellows than he. I wish no help."

"A moment," said Cardillac; "the bailiff always comes lounging here at dinner-time. If he should
enter the hall to listen to Pique-Vinaigre, and should see us fixing Germain, he is likely
to sing out for help; he is not fly; look out."

"That is true," said the Skeleton.

"A bailiff here!" cried Frank, the victim of Boulard, with astonishment. "And what is his name?"

"Boulard," said Cardillac.

"It is my man," cried Frank, doubling his fists; "it is he who stole my savings."

"The bailiff?" asked the provost.

"Yes; seven hundred and twenty francs which he collected for me."

"You know him? he has seen you?" asked the Skeleton.

"I should think I had seen him, to my sorrow. But for him I should not be here."

These regrets sounded badly in the ears of Skeleton; he fixed his squinting eyes on Frank,
who answered some questions of his comrades; then leaning over toward Cripple, whispered in
a low tone, "Here is a kid who is capable of informing the keepers of our plant."

"No: I answer for him: he will denounce no one, but he is still a little timid about crime,
and he might be capable of defending Germain. Better get him out of the way."

"Enough," said Skeleton, and he said in a loud tone, "I say, Frank, won't you have a settlement
with this rascally bailiff?"

"Let me alone; let him come, his account is made out."

"He is coming, get ready."

"I am all ready; he will bear my mark."

"That will make a scuffle; they will send the bailiff to his ell, and Frank to the dungeon,"
whispered Skeleton to the Cripple, "we shall get rid of both."

"What a head! Is he not a trump?" said the robber, with admiration; then he resumed aloud,
"Shall Pique-Vinaigre be informed that by the assistance of his story we mean to stuff the
keeper and finish the traitor?"

"No; Pique-Vinaigre has too much milk in his composition, and is too great a coward; if he
knew it he would not tell his story; the blow struck, he will bear his part." The dinner-bell rang.

"To your grub, mates!" said Skeleton; "Pique-Vinaigre and Germain are going to enter the court.
Attention, friends! you call me Doomed-to-Death! all right, the denouncer is in the same boat!"

CHAPTER IX.

THE PATTERER.

The new prisoner of whom we have spoken, who wore a blue cotton cap and gray blouse, had attentively
listened to, and energetically approved, the plot which threatened the life of Germain. This
man, of athletic form, left the sitting-room with the other prisoners, without having been
remarked, and soon mingled with the different groups that pressed into the court around the
persons who distributed the beef, which they brought in brass kettles, and the bread in huge
baskets. Each prisoner received a piece of boiled beef, which had served to make the soup for
the morning meal, with half a loaf of bread, superior in quality to that given to soldiers.
The prisoners who had money could buy wine at the canteen, and go there to drink. Those who,
like Nicholas, had received victuals from out of doors, got up a feast to which they invited
the other prisoners. The guests of the widow's son were Barbillon, Skeleton, and, upon the
latter's recommendation, Pique-Vinaigre, in order to get him in a good humor for telling stories.
The ham, hard eggs, cheese, and white bread, due to the forced liberality of Micou the receiver,
were spread out on one of the benches, and Skeleton prepared to do honor to this repast, without
feeling any inquietude concerning the murder he was about to commit.

"Go and see if Pique-Vinaigre is never coming. While I am waiting to choke Germain, I choke
with hunger and thirst; do not forget to say to the Big Cripple that Frank must pull the bailiff's
hair, so that we may be rid of them both."

"Be easy, if Frank does not pitch into the tipstaff, it will not be our fault."

And Nicholas left the sitting-room. At this moment, Boulard entered the yard smoking a cigar,
his hands plunged into his long surtout of gray moleskin, his cap drawn over his ears, his
face smiling and gay; he spied Nicholas, who on his side looked at Frank. The latter and the
Cripple were dining, seated on one of the benches in the court; they had not perceived the
bailiff, on whom their backs were turned. Faithful to the Skeleton's recommendations, Nicholas,
seeing with the corner of his eye Boulard coming toward him, appeared not to remark him, and
drew nearer to Frank and the Cripple.

"Good-day!" said the bailiff to Nicholas.

"Ah! good-day, master, I did not see you; you come, as usual, to take a little walk?"

"Yes, my boy, and to-day I have two reasons for doing it. I am going to tell you why; but first
take these cigars. Come, now, among comrades--the devil! one must not stand on ceremony."

"Thank you, my gentleman. Why have you two reasons for walking?"

"You will understand it, my boy; I do not feel any appetite to-day. I said to myself, 'Looking
at these gay boys at their dinner, and seeing them make use of their jaws, perhaps hunger will
come.'"

"Not so bad. But look this way if you wish to see two babies who eat lustily," said Nicholas,
leading the bailiff by degrees near the bench of Frank, whose back was turned; "just look at
these two; your hunger will come as if you were eating a whole bottle of pickles."

"Oh! let us see this phenomenon!" said Boulard.

"I say, Big Cripple!" cried Nicholas.

The Big Cripple and Frank quickly turned their heads. The bailiff was stupefied, and stood
with his mouth open on recognizing him whom he had swindled.

Frank, throwing his bread and meat on the bench, with one bound jumped at Boulard, whom he
caught by the throat, crying:

"My money!"

"How? What? You strangle me. I--"

"My money!"

"My friend, listen to me!"

"My money! And yet is is too late, for it is your fault that I am here."

"But--I--but--"

"If I go to the hulks, mark me, it is your fault; for if I had that of which you robbed me,
I should not have been under the necessity of stealing. I should have remained honest, as I
wished to be. And you will be acquitted perhaps--they will do nothing to you. But I will do
something to you. You shall bear my marks. Ah! you wear jewels, gold chains, and you rob. There--there--have
you enough? No--here, take some more!"

"Help, help!" cried the bailiff, rolling under the feet of Frank, who struck him furiously.

The other prisoners, very indifferent to this squabble, made a ring round the combatants, or,
rather, round the beating and the beaten, for Boulard, panting and much alarmed, made no resistance,
but endeavored to parry, as well as he could, the blows of his adversary. Happily, the overseer
ran up, on hearing the cries, and released the bailiff from his peril. Boulard arose, pale
and trembling, with one of his large eyes bruised, and, without giving himself time to pick
up his cap, cried, as he ran toward the wicket:

"Keeper--open for me; I do not wish to remain a moment longer--help!"

"And you, for having struck the gentleman, follow me to the governor," said the keeper, taking
Frank by the collar; "you will go to the blackhole two days for this."

"I don't care; he has got his gruel."

"Mum!" whispered the Cripple to Frank, pretending to adjust his clothes, "not a word of what
they are going to do to the spy."

"Be easy; perhaps if I had been there, I should have defended him; for to kill a man for that
is hard; but blab! never."

"Will you come?" said the keeper.

"There we are rid of the bailiff and Frank now; hot work for the spy!" said Nicholas.

As Frank left the court, Germain and Pique-Vinaigre entered. Germain was no longer recognizable;
his physiognomy, formerly so sad and cast down, was radiant with joy; he carried his head erect,
and cast around him a cheerful and assured glance; he was beloved!--the horrors of the prison
disappeared from before his eyes. Pique-Yinaigre followed him with an embarrassed air; at length,
after having hesitated two or three times to accost him, he made a great effort, and slightly
touched the arm of Germain before he had approached the group of prisoners, who, at a distance,
were examining him with sullen hatred. Their victim could not escape. In spite of himself,
Germain shuddered at the touch of Pique-Vinaigre; for the face and rags of the ex-juggler did
not speak much in his favor. But, recollecting the advice of Rigolette, and, besides, too happy
not to be friendly, Germain stopped, and said kindly to Pique-Vinaigre,

"What do you wish?"

"To thank you."

"For what?"

"For what your pretty little visitor wishes to do for my sister."

"I do not understand you," said Germain, surprised.

"I am going to explain. Just now, in the office, I met the overseer, who was on guard in the
visitors' room."

"Ah, yes; a very good man."

"Ordinarily, the jailers do not agree with that description. But Roussel is another bird; he
deserves it. Just now he whispered in my ear, 'Pique-Vinaigre, my boy, do you know Germain
well?' 'Yes; the butt of the yard,' I answered." Then, interrupting himself, Pique-Vinaigre
said to Germain, "Pardon, excuse me, if I have called you a butt. Do not think of it; wait
for the end. 'Yes, then,' I answered, 'I know Germain, the butt of the prison.' 'And yours
also, perhaps, Pique-Vinaigre?' asked the keeper, in a severe tone. 'I am too cowardly and
too good-natured to allow myself any kind of a butt black, white, or gray, and Germain still
less than any other for he does not appear wicked, and they are unjust toward him.' 'Well,
Pique-Vinaigre, you have reason to be on Germain's side, for he has been good to you.' 'To
me? How so?' 'That is to say, not to you; but, saving that, you owe him great gratitude,' answered
old Roussel."

"Let us see; explain yourself a little more clearly," said Germain, smiling.

"That is exactly what I said to the keeper: 'Do speak more clearly.' Then he answered, 'It
is not Germain, but his pretty little visitor, who has been full of kindness for your sister.
She overheard her relate to you her misfortunes, and, as she was about leaving, the girl offered
her any assistance she could render.'"

"Good Rigolette!" cried Germain, affected. "She took good care not to mention it."

"'Oh, then,' I answered the keeper, 'I am only a gander. You are right; Germain has been good
to me; for his visitor is, as may be said, himself, and my sister Jeanne is myself and much more.'"

"Poor little Rigolette!" said Germain. "This does not surprise me; she has a heart so generous
and susceptible!"

"The keeper went on; 'I heard all this without pretending to listen. Now you know, if you do
not try to render a service to Germain; if you do not warn him in case of any plot against
him, you will be a finished scoundrel, Pique-Vinaigre.' 'Keeper, I am a scoundrel,' commenced
I, 'it is true; but not a finished scoundrel. In fine, since Germain's visitor wished to do
some good to my poor Jeanne, who is a good and honest girl, I will do for Germain what I can;
unfortunately, that will be no great things.'"

"'Never mind, do what you can; I am also going to give you some good news for Germain; I have
just heard it.'"

"What is it, then?" asked Germain.

"'To-morrow there will be a separate cell vacant,' the keeper told me to inform you."

"Can it be true? Oh, what happiness!" cried Germain. "The good man was right; it is good news
you tell me."

"I think so; for your place is not with rough-scuff like us, Germain." Then he added hastily,
and in a low tone, as he pretended to stoop for something, "Germain, look at the prisoners,
how they stare at us; they are astonished to see us talking together. I leave you; be on your
guard. If they pick a quarrel, do not answer; they only want a pretext to engage you in a dispute,
and beat you. Barbillon is to begin the dispute--look out for him; I will try to turn them
from this notion." And Pique-Vinaigre lifted up his head as if he had found what he pretended
to look for. Only informed of the conspiracy of the morning, which was to provoke a quarrel
in which Germain would be roughly handled, in order to force the governor to change his ward,
not only was Pique-Vinaigre ignorant of the murderous project, but he was also ignorant that
they counted on his story of Gringalet to deceive and distract the attention of the keeper.

"Come along, lazybones!" said Nicholas to Pique-Vinaigre, going to meet him; "leave your ration
of flesh there; we have a merry-making and feasting. I invite you."

"Whereabouts? To the Panier-Fleuri? to the Petit Ramponneau?"

"No, in the hall; the table is set on a bench. We have some ham, eggs, and cheese--my treat."

"That suits me; but it is a pity to lose my ration, and still more that my sister cannot profit
by it. Neither she nor her children often see meat, except at the butcher's door."

"Come, come quick, Skeleton is making a beast of himself; he is capable of devouring the whole
with Barbillon."

Nicholas and Pique-Vinaigre entered the hall; seated astride on the end of the bench where
the feast was spread, Skeleton swore and cursed while waiting for the giver of the banquet.

"Here you are at last, snail, laggard!" cried the bandit, at the sight of Pique-Vinaigre; "what
have you been doing then?"

"He was chatting with Germain," said Nicholas, carving the ham.

"Oh! talking with Germain?" said Skeleton, looking attentively at Pique-Vinaigre, without pausing
in his mastication.

"Yes!" answered the patterer. "Oh! here is another who never invented bootjacks and hard eggs
(I say eggs, because I adore them). Isn't he a fool! this Germain! I used to think that he
was a spy, but he is too much of a flat for that!"

"Oh! you think so?" said Skeleton, exchanging a rapid and significant glance with Nicholas
and Barbillon.

"I am as sure of it as that I see ham! And, then, how the devil would you have him spy?--he
is always alone; he speaks to no one, and no one speaks to him; he runs away from us as if
we had the cholera. Besides, he will not spy for a long time; he is going to be boxed up alone."

"He!" cried Skeleton; "when?"

"To-morrow morning there will be a cell vacant."

"You see we must kill him at once. He does not sleep in my ward; to-morrow will be too late.
To-day we have only until four o'clock, and now it is almost three," whispered Skeleton to
Nicholas, while Pique-Vinaigre talked with Barbillon.

"All the same," answered Nicholas aloud, pretending to answer an observation of Skeleton, "Germain
looks as if he despises us."

"On the contrary, my children," answered Pique-Vinaigre, "you intimidate this young man. He
looks upon himself, in comparison with you, as the least of the least. Just now, what do you
think he said?"

"How should I know?"

"He said to me, 'You are very happy, Pique-Vinaigre, to dare to speak with the famous Skeleton
(he used the word famous) as an equal and a companion.' I am dying to speak to him; but he
produces an effect upon me so respectful--so respectful--that, should I see the chief of police
in flesh, and bones, and uniform, I could not be more overcome."

"He told you that?" replied Skeleton, feigning to believe him, and to be flattered at the admiration
he excited in Germain.

"As true as that you are the greatest magsman on the earth, he told me so."

"Then it is different," answered Skeleton; "I must make it up with him. Barbillon had a mind
to pick a quarrel, but he, too, will do well to let him alone."

"He will do better," cried Pique-Vinaigre, persuaded that he had turned away the danger with
which Germain was threatened. "He will do better, for this poor fellow won't dispute; he is
one of my kind, bold as a hare."

"Yes, it is a pity," said Skeleton; "we reckoned on this quarrel to amuse us after dinner,
the time appears so long."

"Yes. What shall we do then?" asked Nicholas.

"Since it is so, let Pique-Vinaigre tell us a story. I will not seek a quarrel with Germain,"
said Barbillon.

"Agreed, agreed!" cried the story-teller. "That is one condition; but there is another, and
without both I tell no stories."

"Come, what is your other condition?"

"It is, that the honorable society which is poisoned with capitalists," said Pique-Vinaigre,
assuming his mountebank twang, "will make for me the trifle of a contribution of twenty sous.
Twenty sous, ladies and gents, to hear the famous Pique-Vinaigre, who has had the honor to
perform before the most renowned robbers, before the most famous rogues, of France and Navarre,
and who is immediately expected at Brest and at Toulon, where he goes by order of the government.
Twenty sous! A mere nothing, gents."

"Come, you shall have twenty sous when you have told your story."

"After? No; before!" cried Pique-Vinaigre.

"I say, do you think us capable of cheating you out of twenty sous?" said Skeleton, with a
displeased air.

"Not at all," answered Pique-Vinaigre; "I honor the family with my confidence, and it is to
spare its purse that I ask twenty sous in advance."

"On your word of honor?"

"Yes, gents; for after my tale is finished, you will be so satisfied that it is no longer twenty
sous, but twenty francs--a hundred francs that you will force me to take! I know, myself, I
should have the meanness to accept the offering; so, you see, that for economy's sake, you
will do better to give me twenty sous in advance."

"Oh! you are not wanting in soft-sawder."

"I have nothing but my tongue; I must use it; and, then, the point of the matter is that my
sister and her children are in Queer Street, and twenty sous is an out-and-out friendly call."

"Why does she not toddle out on the prigging lay; and her kids also, if they are old enough?"
said Nicholas.

"Do not speak of it; it wounds me, it dishonors me. I am too good."

"You had better say too stupid, since you encourage her."

"It is true, I encourage her in the vice of honesty. But she is only good for that trade--she
makes me pity her. Come, is it agreed? I will relate to you my famous history of 'Gringalet',
but I must have my twenty sous; and Barbillon will not seek a quarrel with that softy, Germain."

"You shall have your twenty sous, and Barbillon will not pick a quarrel with Germain," said
Skeleton.

"Then open your ears, for you are going to hear something choice. But here is the rain, which
sends in the audience; there will be no need to go after them."

In fact, the rain began to fall, the prisoners left the court, and came to take refuge in the
hall, accompanied by a keeper. We have already said this hall was a long paved room, lighted
by windows looking out on the court; in the center was placed the stove, near which were Skeleton,
Barbillon, Nicholas, and Pique-Vinaigre. At a nod from the provost, Big Cripple joined the
group. Germain entered among the last, absorbed in delightful thoughts. He went mechanically
to seat himself on the ledge of the farthest window in the room, a place he habitually occupied,
which no one disputed; for it was far from the stove, around which the prisoners clustered.
We have said that only a dozen of the prisoners had been informed at first of the intended
murder of Germain. But, once divulged, this project counted as many adherents as there were
prisoners; these wretches, in their blind cruelty, regarded this frightful plot as a legitimate
vengeance, and saw in it a certain guarantee against future denunciations.

Germain, Pique-Vinaigre, and the keeper were alone ignorant of what was about to take place.
The general attention was divided between the executioner, the victim, and the patterer, who
was about innocently to deprive Germain of the only succor which he had to depend upon; for
it was almost certain that the keeper, seeing the prisoners attentive to the story of Pique-Vinaigre,
would believe his presence useless, and profit by this moment of calm to go and take his repast.
When all the prisoners had entered, Skeleton said to the keeper:

"I say, old man, Pique-Vinaigre has a good idea; he is going to tell us his story of 'Gringalet.'
The weather is so bad it is not fit to turn a constable out of doors; we are going to wait
here quietly for the time to turn in."

"True enough, when he talks, you keep yourselves quiet. At least, there is no need of being
behind your backs."

"Yes," replied Skeleton; "but Pique-Vinaigre charges high for telling a story; he wants twenty
sous."

"Yes, the trifle of twenty sous; and then it is for nothing," cried Pique-Vinaigre. "Yes, nothing;
for one should not keep a red in his pocket, and thus deprive himself of the pleasure of hearing
the adventures of poor little Gringalet, of the terrible Cut-in-half, and the wicked Gargousse;
it is enough to break one's heart, to make your hair stand on end. Now, gents, who is it that
cannot spare the bagatelle of four coppers, to have his heart broken and his hair stand on end?"

"I give two sous!" said Skeleton; and he threw his penny toward Pique-Vinaigre. "Shall the
gang be stingy for such an entertainment?" he added, looking at his accomplices with a significant
air. Several sous were thrown, from one side and the other, to the great joy of Pique-Vinaigre,
who thought of his sister as he made his collection. "Eight, nine, eleven, twelve, thirteen!"
he cried, picking up his money. "Come, rich folks, capitalists and other bankers, one more
little effort; you cannot remain at thirteen, it is an unlucky number. Only seven sous wanting--a
paltry seven sous. How! shall it be said the Lions' Den cannot raise seven sous more-- seven
miserable sous! O! you will lead me to think that you have been placed here unjustly, or that
you have been very unlucky."

The piercing voice and the witticisms of Pique-Vinaigre had roused Germain from his reverie;
as much to follow the advice of Rigolette, to make himself popular, as to make a slight donation
to this poor fellow, who had shown some desire to be useful to him, he arose and threw a piece
of ten sous at the speaker's feet, who cried, showing to the crowd the generous donor: "Ten
sous, gents! you see I spoke of capitalists; honor to the banker, who tries to be agreeable
to the society. Yes, gents! for it is to him you will owe the greater part of Gringalet, and
you will thank him for it. As to the three sous surplus caused by his donation, I will deserve
them by imitating the voices of my personages, instead of speaking in my ordinary manner! This
shall be another delight that you will owe to this rich capitalist whom you must adore."

"Come, don't gammon so much, but begin," said Skeleton.

"A moment," said Pique-Vinaigre; "it is but just that this capitalist, who has given me ten
sous, should have the best place, except our provost, who must choose first." This proposition
answered the purpose of Skeleton so well that he cried:

"It is true, after me he should be the best seated." And the bandit again cast a look of intelligence
at the prisoners.

"Yes, yes, let him approach," they cried.

"Let him take the front seat."

"You see, young man, your liberality is recompensed; the honorable society recognizes that
you have the right to the first seat," said Pique-Vinaigre to Germain.

Believing that his liberality had really disposed his odious companions in his favor, enchanted
thus to follow the advice of Rigolette, Germain, in spite of his repugnance, left his seat,
and approached.

Pique-Vinaigre, aided by Nicholas and Barbillon, having arranged around the stove the four
or five benches, said with emphasis,

"Here are orchestra stalls! honor to whom honor is due; in the first place the capitalist.
Now let those who have paid seat themselves on the benches," added Pique-Vinaigre, gayly, firmly
believing that Germain had, thanks to him, no more danger to apprehend. "And those who have
not cashed up," he added, "will sit on the ground or stand up, as they choose."

Let us glance at the arrangements as now completed.

Pique-Vinaigre, standing near the stove, was getting ready to commence his story. Near him,
Skeleton is also standing, ready to spring on Germain the moment the keeper should leave the
hall. Some distance from Germain, Nicholas, Barbillon, Cardillac, and some other prisoners,
among whom was seen the man in the blue cotton cap and gray blouse, occupied the back benches.
The larger number of the prisoners grouped here and there, some seated on the ground, others
standing, and leaning against the walls, composed the background of this picture, lighted,
after the manner of Rembrandt, by the three lateral windows, which cast a vivid light and deep
shade on these figures, so differently characterized and so strongly marked.

The keeper who, without knowing it, was, by his departure, to give the signal for the murder
of Germain, stood near the half-opened door.

"All ready!" said Pique-Vinaigre to Skeleton.

"Silence in the band" answered the latter, half-turning round; then, addressing Pique-Vinaigre,
"Now fire away! we listen." A profound silence reigned in the sitting-room.

CHAPTER X.

GRINGALET AND CUT-IN-HALF.

Before we commence the recital of Pique-Vinaigre, we will recall to our readers that, by a
strange contrast, the majority of the prisoners, notwithstanding their cynical perversity,
almost always preferred artless stories (we will not say puerile), in which the oppressed,
by the laws of an inexorable fatality, is revenged on his tyrant, after trials and difficulties
without number. The thought is far from us, to establish the slightest parallel between corrupted
beings and the honest and poor masses; but is it not known with what frenzied applause the
audience of minor theaters behold the deliverance of the victim, and with what curses they
pursue the traitorous and the wicked? One ordinarily laughs at these rough evidences of sympathy
for that which is good, weak, and persecuted; of aversion for that which is powerful, unjust,
and cruel. It seems to us that to laugh at this is wrong. Nothing is more consoling than these
feelings innately of the multitude. Is it not evident that these salutary instincts may become
fixed principles in those unfortunate beings whom ignorance and poverty expose to the subversive
attacks of evil? Why not have every hope of a people whose good moral sense is so invariably
manifested? of a people who, in spite of the fascinations of art, will never permit a dramatic
work to arrive at its denouement by the triumph of the wicked and the punishment of the just?
This fact, scorned and laughed at though it be, appears to us of considerable importance on
account of the tendencies which it proves, and which are even often found (we repeat it) among
beings the most corrupt, when they are, so to speak, in repose, and sheltered from criminal
temptations or necessities. In a word, since men hardened in crime still sometimes sympathize
with the recital and expression of elevated sentiments, ought we not to believe that all men
have more or less in them of the good, the well doing, the just, but that poverty and ignorance,
in falsifying, in stifling these Divine instincts, are the first causes of human depravity?

Is it not evident that generally ones does not become wicked except through misfortune, and
that to snatch man from the terrible temptations of warn by the equitable melioration of his
material condition, is to make him capable of the virtues of which he is conscious? The impression
caused by the story of Pique-Vinaigre will demonstrate, or rather display, we hope, some of
the ideas we have just set forth. Pique-Yinaigre then commenced his story in these terms, in
the midst of the profound silence of his audience. "It is not very long since the events occurred
which I am going to relate to this honorable society. Little Poland was not then destroyed.
Does the honorable society know what was called Little Poland?"

"I remember," said the prisoner in the blue cap and gray blouse, "it was some small houses
near the Rue du Rocher, and the Rue de la Pepiniere."

"Exactly, pal," replied Vinaigre; "the city streets, which, however, are not full of palaces,
would be lovely alongside of Little Poland, but, otherwise, a famous resort for our lot; there
were no streets, but lanes; no houses, but hovels; no pavement, but a carpet of mud, so that
the noise of carriages would not have incommoded you if any passed; but none passed. From morning
to night, and, above all, from night till morning, what one did not cease to hear, were cries,
of 'watch!' 'help!' 'murder!' but the watch did not disturb himself. The more with their brains
dashed out in Little Poland--so many the less to be arrested!

"The swarming population, therein, you should have seen; very few jewelers, goldsmiths, or
bankers lodged there! but to make amends, there were heaps of organ-players, rope-dancers,
Punch-and-Judy-men, or keepers of curious beasts. Among the latter was one named Cut-'em-in-half,
so cruel was he; above all, cruel toward children. They called him so, because, with a hatchet,
he had cut in two a little Savoyard!"

At this part of the story the prison clock struck a quarter past three. The prisoners entering
their sleeping apartments at four o'clock, the crime was to be consummated before that hour.

"Thousand thunders! the keeper does not go," whispered the Skeleton to the Big Cripple.

"Be quiet; once the story started, he will leave." Pique-Vinaigre continued his recital.

"No one knew whence Cut-in-half came; some said he was an Italian, others a gipsy, others a
Turk, others an African; the old women called him a magician, although a magician in these
days may appear fishy; as for me, I should be quite tempted to say the same as the old women.
What makes this likely is, that he always had with him a great red ape called Gargousse, which
was so cunning, and wicked, that one would have said he had Old Nick in him. By and by I shall
speak again of Gargousse. As to Cut-'em-in-half, I am going to show him up; he had skin the
color of a bootlining, hair as red as the hide of his ape, green eyes, and what makes me think
with the old women that he was a magician, is, that he had a black tongue."

"Black tongue?" said Barbillon.

"Black as ink!" answered Pique-Vinaigre.

"And how is that?"

"Because, before he was born, his mother had probably spoken of a negro," answered Pique-Vinaigre,
with modest assurance. "To this ornament, Cut-in-half joined the trade of having I do not know
how many tortoises, apes, guinea-pigs, white mice, foxes and marmots, with an equal number
of little Savoyards.

"Every morning, the padrone distributed to each one his beast and a piece of black bread, and
started them off, to beg for a sou or dance a Catalina. Those who, at night, brought back less
than fifteen sous were beaten, oh! how they were beaten! so that they were heard to cry from
one end of Little Poland to the other.

"I must tell you also that there was in Little Poland a man who was called the Alderman, because
he was the longest resident of this quarter, and also the mayor, justice of the peace, or rather,
of war, for it was in his court (he was a wine dealer) that they went to comb one another's
heads when there was no other way to settle their disputes. Although quite old, the Alderman
was strong as a Hercules, and very much feared; they swore only by him in Little Poland; when
he said, 'It is good,' every one said, 'It is very good;' when he said, 'It is bad,' every
one said, 'It is awful bad,' he was a good man at the bottom, but terrible; when, for example,
strong people caused misery to the weaker, then, stand from under! As the Alderman was the
neighbor of Cut-in-half, he had in the commencement heard the children cry, on account of the
blows which the owner of the beasts gave them; so he said to him, 'If I hear the kids squeal
again, I'll make you cry in your turn, and, as you have a stronger voice, I'll strike harder.'"

"Comic of the Alderman! I quite tumble to the old boy," said the prisoner in a blue cap.

"And so do I," added the keeper, approaching the group. Skeleton could not restrain a movement
of angry impatience.

Pique-Vinaigre continued:

"Thanks to the Alderman threatening Cut-in-half, the children were no more heard to cry at
night; but the poor little unfortunates did not suffer the less, for if they did not cry when
their master beat them, it was because they feared to be beaten still more. As for going and
complaining to the Alderman, they never had such an idea. For the fifteen sous which each of
the little boys was obliged to bring him, Cut-in-half fed them, lodged them, and clothed them.
At night, a piece of black bread, the same for breakfast--that was the way he fed them; he
never gave them any clothes--that was the way he clothed them; and he shut them up at night
pell-mell with their beasts, on the same straw, in a garret, to which they clambered by a ladder
and through a trap-door--and that was the way he lodged them. Once the beasts and children
were all housed, he took away the ladder and locked the trap-door with a key. You may imagine
the noise and uproar which these apes, guinea-pigs, foxes, mice, tortoises, marmosets, and
children made, without any light, in this garret, which was as large as a thimble. Cut-in-half
slept in a room underneath, having his large ape Gargousse tied to the foot of the bed. When
the noise was too loud in the garret, the owner of the beasts arose, took a large whip, mounted
the ladder without a light, opened the trap, and lashed away at random. As he always had about
a dozen boys, and some of the innocents brought sometimes as much as twenty sous a day, Cut-in-half,
his expenses paid, and they were not heavy, had for himself about four or five francs each
day; with that he frolicked, for note well that he was the greatest drinker on the earth, and
was regularly dead drunk once every day. It was his rule, he said; except for that he would
have a headache all day long; it must be said, also, that from his gains he bought sheep's
hearts for Gargousse, the big ape eating raw meat like a very cannibal. But I see that the
honorable assembly asks for Gringalet (Walking Rushlight); here he is, gents!"

"Ay! let us see Gringalet, and then I'll go and eat my soup," said the keeper. Skeleton exchanged
a look of ferocious satisfaction with the Cripple.

"Among the children to whom Cut-in-half distributed his beasts," resumed Pique-Vinaigre, "there
was a poor little devil nicknamed Gringalet. Without father or mother, without sister or brother,
without a home, he found himself alone--all alone in the world, where he never asked to come,
and whence he could have gone, without anybody caring at all about it. He was not called Gringalet
in mere sport; he was dwarfish and puny, and reedy; no one would have given him over seven
or eight years, yet he was thirteen; but if he did not look more than half his age, it was
not his fault, for he had not on the average eaten more than every other day, and then so little,
and so bad, that he really did very well to appear to be seven."

"Poor babby, I think I see him," said the prisoner in the blue cap; "there are so many like
him on the streets of Paris, little starved-to-deaths."

"They ought to begin to learn that trade young," replied Pique-Vinaigre, bitterly; "so that
they can become used to it."

"Come, go on then, make haste," said Skeleton, gruffly; "the keeper is impatient, his soup
is growing cold."

"Oh, bah! never mind," answered the keeper; "I wish to make a little more acquaintance with
Gringalet. It is amusing."

"Really, it is very interesting," added Germain, attentive to the story.

"Oh, thank you for what you say, my capitalist; that gives me more pleasure than your ten sous."

"Thunder! you sluggard!" cried the Skeleton. "Will you have done keeping us waiting?"

"Here goes!" answered Pique-Vinaigre.

"One day Cut-in-half had picked up Gringalet in the street, dying with cold and hunger; he
would have done just as well to let him alone to die. As Gringalet was feeble, he was afraid;
and as he was cowardly, he became the laughing-stock and scapegoat of his companions, who beat
him, and caused him so much misery, that he would have been very wicked if strength and courage
had not failed him. But no; when they beat him, he cried, saying, 'I have done no harm to any
one, yet every one harms me--it is unjust. Oh! if I were strong and bold!' You think, perhaps,
that Gringalet was going to add, 'I would return to others the evil they did me.' Well, no!
not at all: he said, 'Oh! if I were strong and bold, I would defend the weak against the strong;
for I am weak, and the strong make me suffer.' In the mean time, as he was too much of a pigmy
to prevent the strong from molesting the weak, he prevented the larger beasts from injuring
the smaller ones.

"There's a funny idea!" said the prisoner in the blue cap.

"And what is still more funny," replied the patterer, "is that, with this idea, one would have
said that Gringalet consoled himself for being beaten; and that proves that, at bottom, he
had not a bad heart."

"I think so--on the contrary," said the keeper, "Pique-Vinaigre is jolly amusing."

At this moment the clock struck half-past three. The Skeleton and Big Cripple exchanged significant
glances. The hour advanced, the keeper did not retire, and some of the least hardened prisoners
seemed almost to forget the sinister projects against Germain, who listened with eagerness
to the recital. "When I say," Pique-Vinaigre resumed, "that Gringalet prevented the larger
beasts from eating the smaller ones, you will please understand that Gringalet did not go and
interfere in the affairs of the tigers, lions, wolves, or even the foxes and apes of the menagerie;
he was too cowardly for that. But as soon as he saw, for example, a spider concealed in his
web, to catch a poor foolish fly that was buzzing about gayly in the sun, without harming any
one, crack! Gringalet gave a sweep into the web, delivered the fly, and crushed the spider,
like a real Caesar! Yes, like a real Caesar! for he became as white as chalk at even touching
these villainous creatures; he needed, then, resolution. He was afraid of a lady-bug, and had
taken a very long time to become familiar with the turtle which Cut-in-half handed over to
him every morning. Thus Gringalet, overcoming the alarm which spiders caused him, to prevent
the flies from being eaten, showed himself--"

"Showed himself as bold, in his way, as a man who would have attacked a wolf, to take from
him a lamb of the fold," said Blue Cap.

"Or as a man who would have attacked Cut-in-half, to drag Gringalet from his claws," added
Barbillon, also much interested.

"As you say," replied Pique-Yinaigre. "Accordingly, after these doings, Gringalet did not feel
so very unfortunate. He who never laughed, smiled, looked wise, put on his cap sideways, when
he had a cap, and sung the Marseillaise with a trumpet air. At such times, there was not a
spider that dared to look him in the face! Another time it was a cricket that was drowning
and struggling in a gutter; quickly Gringalet bravely plunged two of his fingers into the waves
and caught the cricket, which he afterward placed on a blade of grass; a champion swimmer with
a medal, who should have fished up his tenth drowned person, at fifty francs the head, could
not have been more proud than Gringalet, when he saw his cricket kick and run away. And yet
the cricket gave him neither money nor a medal, and did not even say thank you, nor did the
fly. 'But then, Pique-Vinaigre, my friend,' will the honorable society say, 'what kind of pleasure
could Gringalet, whom every one beats, find in being the deliverer of crickets and the executioner
of spiders? Since others injured him, why did he not revenge himself in doing harm according
to his strength; for instance, by causing the flies to be eaten by spiders, or in letting the
crickets drown themselves, or even drowning them himself.'"

"Yes; exactly; why did he not revenge himself in that way?" said Nicholas.

"What good would that have done him?" said another.

"Why, to do harm because others harmed him!"

"No! I can comprehend why the poor little kid liked to save the flies," answered Blue Cap.
"He thought, perhaps, 'Who knows that some one will not save me in the same way?'"

"Pal, you're right," cried Pique-Vinaigre; "you have read in your heart what I was about to
explain to the honorable company. Gringalet was not malicious; he saw no further than the end
of his nose; but he said to himself, 'Cut-in-half is my spider; perhaps one day somebody will
do for me what I do for the flies; they will break up his web, and snatch me from his claws.'
For until then, on no account would he have dared to run away from his master; he would have
thought himself stone dead. Yet, one day, when neither he nor his turtle had had any luck,
and they had only earned two or three sous, Cut-in-half began to whip the child so hard, so
hard, that, hang it! Gringalet could stand it no longer. Tired of being the butt and martyr
of everybody, he watched the moment when the trap-door of the garret was open, and while the
padrone was feeding his beasts, he slipped down the ladder."

"Hooray! so much the better!" said a prisoner.

"But why did he not go and complain to the Alderman?" said Blue Cap; "he would have given Cut-in-half
his token!"

"Yes, but he did not dare; he was too much afraid, he preferred to run away. Unfortunately,
Cut-in-half had seen him; he caught him by the throat, and carried him back to the garret;
this time Gringalet, thinking of what he had to expect, shuddered from head to foot, for he
was not at the end of his troubles. Speaking of the troubles of Gringalet, it is necessary
that I should tell you of Gargousse, the favorite ape. This wicked animal was larger than Gringalet;
judge what a size for an ape! Now I am going to tell you why they did not lead him as a show
through the streets, like the other beasts of the menagerie; it was because Gargousse was so
wicked and so strong that, among all the children, there was only one, Auvergnat, fourteen
years old, a resolute fellow, who, after having several times collared and fought with Gargousse,
had succeeded in mastering him, and leading him by a chain; and even then, there were often
battles between them, and bloody ones too, you may bet! Tired of this, the little Auvergnat
said one day, 'Well, well, I will revenge myself on you, you lubberly baboon!' So one morning
he set off with his beast as usual; to decoy him he bought a sheep's heart. While Gargousse
was eating, he passed a cord through the end of his chain, and fastened it to a tree; and when
he had the scoundrel of an ape once tied fast, he poured on him such a torrent of blows! a
torrent that fire could not have extinguished."

"Good boy!"

"Bravo! Auvergnat!"

"Hit him again, he's got no friends."

"Break his back for him, the rascally Gargousse," said the prisoners.

"And he did lay it on with a good heart," answered Pique-Vinaigre. "You should have heard how
Gargousse yelled, seen how he gnashed his teeth, jumped, danced here and there; but Auvergnat
trimmed him up with his club, saying, 'Do you like it? then here is some more!' Unfortunately,
apes are like cats, they have nine lives. Gargousse was as cunning as he was wicked. When he
saw, as I may say, what kind of wood was burning for him, at the very thickest moment of the
torrent, he cut a last caper, fell flat down at the foot of the tree, kicked a moment, and
then shammed dead, not budging any more than a log. The Auvergnat wished nothing more; believing
the ape done for, he cleared out, never to put his feet in Cut-in-half's drum again. But the
vagabond Gargousse watched him out of the corner of his eye, all wounded as he was, and as
soon as he saw himself alone and Auvergnat at a distance, he gnawed the cord with his teeth.
The Boulevard Monceau, where he had had his dance, was very near Little Poland; the ape knew
the road as well as he did his prayers. He slowly went off then, crawling along, and arrived
at his master's, who swore and foamed to see his pet ape thus served out. But this is not all;
from that moment Gargousse had preserved such furious spite against all children in general,
that Cut-in-half, though not very tender-hearted, had not dared to let any of them lead him
out, for fear of an accident; for Gargousse would have been capable of strangling or devouring
a child, and the little fellows would rather have allowed themselves to be slashed by their
master than approach the ape."

"I must most decidedly go and eat my soup," said the keeper, making a movement toward the door;
"Pique-Vinaigre would make the birds come down from the trees to hear him. I do not know wherever
he has fished up this story."

"At length the keeper is off," whispered Skeleton to the Cripple; "I am in a fever, so much
do I burn. Only attend to making the ring around the spy, I'll take care of the rest."

"Be good boys," said the keeper, going toward the door.

"Good as pictures," answered Skeleton, drawing near Germain, while the Big Cripple and Nicholas,
at a concerted signal, made two steps in the same direction.

"Oh! respectable warder, you are going away at the finest moment," said Pique-Yinaigre, with
an air of reproach.

Except for the Cripple, who prevented his movement by seizing his arm, Skeleton would have
sprung upon Pique-Vinaigre.

"How at the finest moment?" answered the keeper, turning.

"I think so," said Pique-Vinaigre; "you do not know all you are going to lose; the most charming
part of my story is about to commence."

"Do not listen to it, then," said Skeleton, with difficulty restraining his rage; "he is not
in the vein to-day: I find his story abominably stupid."

"My story stupid?" cried Pique-Vinaigre, his vanity wounded; "well, keeper, I beg you, I supplicate
you, to remain to the end. I have only enough to fill a good quarter of an hour; besides, your
soup is cold. Now what do you risk? I will hasten on with my story, so that you may still have
the time to go and eat before we go to our beds."

"Well, then, I remain, but make haste," said the keeper, drawing near.

"And you are right to remain, for, without boasting, you have never heard anything like it--above
all, the conclusion; there is the triumph of the ape and of Gringalet, escorted by all the
little beast conductors and inhabitants of Little Poland. My word of honor I do not say it
from vanity, but it is first-class."

"Then go on, my boy," said the keeper, coming close to the stove.

The Skeleton trembled with rage. He almost despaired of accomplishing his crime. Once the hour
of repose arrived, Germain was saved; for he did not sleep in the same ward with his implacable
enemy, and the next day, as we have said, he was to occupy one of the vacant cells. And, moreover,
Skeleton saw, from the interruptions of several of the prisoners, that they found themselves,
thanks to the story of Pique-Vinaigre, filled with ideas that softened their hearts; perhaps,
then, they would not assist, with savage indifference, the accomplishment of a frightful murder,
of which their presence would make them accomplices. He could prevent the patterer from finishing
his story, but then his last hope vanished of seeing the keeper retire before the hour in which
Germain would be in safety.

"Oh! stupid, is it?" said Pique-Vinaigre. "Well, the honorable society shall be the judge.

"There was not then an animal more wicked than the large ape Gargousse, which was, above all,
as savage as his master toward children. What did Cut-in-half do to punish Gringalet for wishing
to run away? That you shall know directly; in the mean time, he caught the child, shut him
up in the garret, saying to him, 'To-morrow morning, when all your comrades are gone, I will
take hold of you, and you shall see what I do to those who wish to run away from here.'

"I leave you to imagine what a horrible night Gringalet passed. He hardly closed his eyes;
he wondered what Cut-in-half would do. At length he fell asleep. But what a sleep! Then there
was a dream, a frightful dream--that is to say, the beginning--you will see. He dreamed that
he was one of those poor flies which he had so often saved from the spider's web, and that
he, in his turn, fell into a large and strong web, where he struggled with all his strength
without being able to escape; then he saw coming toward him softly, cautiously, a kind of monster,
which had the face of his master, on a spider's body. My poor Gringalet began again to struggle,
as you may imagine; but the more efforts he made, the more he was entangled in the toils, just
like the poor flies. At length the spider approached--touched him--and he felt the large, cold,
and hairy paws of the monster encircle him. He thought himself dead, but suddenly he heard
a kind of humming noise, clear and acute, and saw a little golden gnat, which had a kind of
sting as fine and brilliant as a diamond needle, flying round the spider in a furious manner,
and a voice (when I say voice, just imagine the voice of a gnat!)-a voice said to him, 'Poor
little fly! you have saved flies; the spider shall not---'

"Unfortunately, Gringalet awoke with a start, and he saw not the end of the dream; nevertheless,
he was a little comforted, saying to himself, 'Perhaps the golden gnat with the diamond sting
would have killed the spider if I had seen the end of the dream.'

"But Gringalet had need of all this to console himself, for, as the night advanced, his fear
returned so strongly that in the end he forgot his dream, or rather, he only remembered the
frightful part of it; the great web where he had been entangled, and the spider with the padrone's
face. You can judge what shiverings of alarm he must have had. Bless me! judge then, alone--all
alone--with no one to take his part!

"In the morning, when he saw the light appear little by little through the garret-window, his
alarm redoubled; the moment was drawing near when he would be left all alone with Cut-in-half.
Then he threw himself on his knees in the middle of the garret, and weeping hot tears, he begged
his companions to ask his pardon from Cut-in-half, or to assist him to escape if there was
any way. Oh, yes! some from fear of the master, others from caring nothing about it, others
from cruelty, refused the service which poor Gringalet demanded."

"Wicked scrubs," said the prisoner in the blue cap, "they had neither body nor soul."

"It is true," said another; "it is vexing to see this want of feeling."

"And, alone, and without defense," resumed Blue Cap; "for one who cannot stretch out his neck
without wincing, it is always a pity. When one has teeth to bite, then it is different. You
have tusks? Well, show them, and look for tail, my cadet."

"That is true!" said several of the prisoners.

"Come!" cried Skeleton, no longer able to restrain his rage, and addressing Blue Cap, "will
you shut up? Have I not already said, 'Silence in the band'? Am I, or am I not, the ruler here?"

For sole answer, Blue Cap looked him in the face, and then made a gesture, perfectly well known
to street arabs, which consists in placing on the tip of the nose the thumb of the right hand,
opened, and touching with the little finger the thumb of the left, also spread out like a fan.
Blue Cap accompanied this mute answer with an expression so grotesque that several of the prisoners
shouted with laughter, while some of the others, on the contrary, remained stupefied at the
audacity of the new prisoner. Skeleton shook his fist at Blue Cap, and said, grinding his teeth,
"We'll settle this to-morrow."

"And I will make the addition on your hide. I'll set down seventeen and carry naught."

For fear the keeper should find a new reason for remaining in order to prevent a possible quarrel,
Skeleton answered calmly:

"That is not the question. I have the ruling of the hall, and I must be obeyed; is it not so,
keeper?"

"It is true," said the officer. "Do not interrupt. And you, Pique-Vinaigre, go on; but make
haste, my boy."

"Then," resumed Pique-Vinaigre, continuing his story, "Gringalet, seeing himself abandoned,
gave himself up to his unhappy fate. Broad daylight came, and all the children prepared to
depart with their beasts. Cut-in-half opened the trap and called the roll, in order to give
each one his piece of bread; all descended the ladder, and Gringalet, more dead than alive,
crouching in a corner of the garret, moved no more than it did; he saw his companions going
off one after the other; he would have given anything to do as they did. Finally, they were
all gone. The heart of the poor child beat strongly; he hoped that, perhaps, his master would
forget him. Ah, well, he heard Cut-in-half at the foot of the ladder, cry in a harsh voice:
'Gringalet! Gringalet!' 'Here I am, master.'

"'Come down at once, or I'll fetch you,' answered Cut-in-half. Gringalet thought his last day
was come.

"'I must,' he said to himself, trembling in every limb, and remembering his dream, 'now you
are in for it, little fly: the spider is going to eat you.'

"After having placed his turtle softly on the ground, he bade him good-bye, for he had become
attached to the creature, and approached the trap-door. He placed his foot on the ladder to
descend, when Cut-in-half, taking him by his poor little leg, as slender as a spindle, drew
him so strongly, so harshly, that Gringalet tumbled down, and polished his face against the
whole length of the ladder."

"What a pity that the Alderman had not been there--what a fine dance for Cut-in-half," said
Blue Cap; "it is in such times as these that it is good to be strong."

"Yes, my son; but, unfortunately, the Alderman was not there! Cut-in-half took the child by
the seat of his trousers, and carried him into his den, where he kept his big ape tied to the
foot of his bed. On seeing the child, the beast began to leap and grind his teeth like a mad
thing, and to spring the whole length of his chain, as if he wished to devour him."

"Poor Gringalet, how did he ever get out of this?"

"Why, if he had fallen into the clutches of the ape, he would have been strangled at once."

"Thunder! it makes me half dead," said Blue Cap: "as for me at this moment, I could not harm
a mouse--what do you say, mate?"

"Nor I either."

"Nor I."

At this moment the clock struck three-quarters past three. Skeleton, fearing more and more
that time would be wanting, cried, furious at these interruptions, which seemed to indicate
that several of the prisoners were becoming softened, "Silence in the crowd! He will never
finish, if you jabber as much as he does."

Pique-Vinaigre continued: "When one reflects that Gringalet had had all the trouble in the
world to become accustomed to his turtle, and that the most courageous of his comrades trembled
at the name alone of Gargousse, let him imagine his terror when he saw himself carried by his
master near to this fiend of an ape. 'Pardon, master,' he cried, his teeth chattering as if
he had an ague,--'pardon, master! I'll never do it again, I promise you.'

"The poor little fellow cried, 'I will never do it again,' without knowing why he said so,
for he had nothing to reproach himself with; but Cut-in-half laughed at that. In spite of the
cries of the child, who struggled hard, he placed him within reach of Gargousse, and the beast
sprung upon him and clutched him!"

A shudder passed through the audience, who were more and more attentive.

"How stupid I should have been to go away," said the keeper, approaching still nearer.

"And this is nothing yet; the finest has to come," answered Pique-Vinaigre. "As soon as Gringalet
felt the cold and hairy paws of the great ape, which seized him by the throat and by the head,
he thought himself devoured, became, as it were, off his nut, and began to cry with groans
which would have softened a tiger.

"' The spider of my dream, good Lord! the spider of my dream--little golden gnat, help, help!'

"'Will you hush? will you hush?' said Cut-in-half, giving him heavy kicks, for he was afraid
that his cries would be heard; but at the end of a moment there was no more danger: poor Gringalet
cried no more, struggled no more; on his knees, as white as a sheet, he shut his eyes and shivered
as if it had been January. Meantime the ape beat him, pulled his hair, and scratched him; and
from time to time, the wicked beast stopped to look at his master, absolutely as if they understood
each other. As for Cut-in-half, he laughed so loud, that if Gringalet had cried, the shouts
of his master would have drowned his cries. It would seem as if this encouraged Gargousse,
for he was more and more cruel to the child."

"Oh! you sanguinary ape," cried Blue Cap. "If I had hold of you by the tail, I would spin you
round like a mill--just like a sling, and I would crack your conk on the pavement."

"Rascally ape! he was as wicked as a man!"

"There are no men so wicked as that!"

"Not so wicked?" answered Pique-Vinaigre. "You forget old Cut-in-half! Judge of it--this is
what he did afterward: he unfastened the chain (which was very long) from the bed, took the
child, more dead than alive, from the paws of Gargousse, and fastened him at one end of it,
with Gargousse at the other. There was an idea!"

"It is true, there are men more cruel than the most cruel beasts."

"When Cut-in-half had done this, he said to his ape, which appeared to understand him,

"'Attention, Gargousse! they have led and shown you, now in your turn you shall show Gringalet;
he shall be your ape. Come, hop, stand up, Gringalet, or I say to Gargousse, 'Speak to him,
fellow!'"

"The poor child had fallen on his knees, his hands clasped, but not able to speak; his teeth
chattered in his head.

"'There! make him walk, Gargousse,' said Cut-in-half to his ape; 'and if he is sulky, do as I do.'

"And at the same time he gave the child a torrent of blows with a switch, and afterward handed
it to the ape. You know how these animals imitate by nature, but Gargousse in this respect
excelled; so he took the rod in his hand and fell upon Gringalet, who was obliged to get up.
Once on his legs he was about the same size as the ape; then Cut-in-half went out of his room
and descended the staircase, calling Gargousse, and Gargousse followed him, driving Gringalet
before him with blows from the rod. They reached thus the little court of the building. There
Cut-in-half counted on amusing himself; he shut the door leading into the lane, and signed
to Gargousse to make the child run before him around the court, by striking him with the switch.
The ape obeyed, and began to chase Gringalet in this manner, while Cut-in-half held his sides
with laughter. You think that this wickedness was enough? Oh! yes, but it was nothing as yet.
Up to this time, Gringalet would have escaped with a few scratches, lashes, and horrible fear.
Now this is what Cut-in-half did: to make the ape furious against the child, who, panting and
out of breath, was more dead than alive, he took Gringalet by the hair, pretending to belabor
him with blows, and then he handed him back to Gargousse, crying, 'Speak to him, speak to him!'
and then he showed him a piece of sheep's heart, as much as to say to him, 'This shall be your
reward!' Oh! then, my friends, truly it was a dreadful sight. Imagine a great red ape with
a black snout, grinding his teeth like a madman, and throwing himself furiously on this poor
little unfortunate, who, not being able to defend himself, had been thrown down at the first
blow, and lay with his face to the ground, in order to protect it. Seeing this, Gargousse,
his master setting him at the child continually, mounted on his back, took him by the neck,
and fell to biting him, until he made the blood come. 'Oh! the spider of my dream--the spider!'
cried Gringalet in a stifled voice, believing now that he was going to be killed. Suddenly
there was a knock at the door!"

"Ah! the Alderman!" cried the prisoners with joy.

"Yes, this time it was he, my friends; he called through the door, 'Will you open, Cut-in-half?
will you open? Do not sham deaf; for I see you through the keyhole!"

"Cut-in-half, forced to reply, went grumbling to open the door for the Alderman, who was a
rough, as solid as a bridge, in spite of his fifty years, and with whom it was worth no one's
while to joke when he was angry.

"'What do you want with me?' said Cut-in-half to him, half opening the door. 'I want to speak
to you,' said the Alderman, who entered almost by force into the little yard; then, seeing
the ape still savage after Gringalet, he ran, caught Gargousse by the nape of his neck, and
tried to take the child away from under him; but he only then saw that the child was chained
to the ape. Seeing this, he looked at Cut-in-half in a terrible manner, and cried, 'Come, then,
at once, and unchain this poor boy!' You can judge of the joy and surprise of Gringalet, who,
half dead with fright, found himself saved as it were by a miracle. Then he could not but think
of the golden gnat of his dream, although the Alderman did not look much like a gnat, the big
buffer."

"Ah," said the keeper, making a step toward the door; "now Gringalet is saved, I'll go to eat
my soup."

"Saved?" cried Pique-Vinaigre, "oh yes, saved! but not yet at the end of his troubles, poor
Gringalet."

"Really?" said several of the prisoners, with interest.

"But what is going to happen to him now?" asked the keeper, drawing near.

"Remain, and you shall know," answered the patterer.

"Cunning Pique-Vinaigre, he does with one just as he pleases," said the keeper; "I will remain
a little longer."

Skeleton, mute, foamed with rage. Pique-Vinaigre continued:

"Cut-in-half, who feared the Alderman as he did fire, had grumblingly loosened the child from
the chain; when that was done, the Alderman threw Gargousse into the air, received him on the
end of a most magnificent kick, and sent him sprawling ten feet off. The ape cried like a burned
child, gnashed his teeth, but fled quickly, and went to take refuge on the top of a shed, where
he shook his fist at the Alderman. 'Why do you beat my ape?' said Cut-in-half to the Alderman.
'You ought rather to ask me, why I do not beat you, to cause this child such suffering! You
are drunk pretty early this morning!' 'I am no more drunk than you are; I was teaching a trick
to my ape; I wish to give a representation where he and Gringalet will appear together; I am
following my business--why do you meddle with it?' 'I meddle with what concerns me. This morning,
not seeing Gringalet pass before my door with the other children, I asked them where he was;
they did not answer--they looked embarrassed. I know you. I thought you were after no good,
and I was not wrong. Listen to me: every time I do not see Gringalet pass before my door with
the others in the morning, I will be here at once, and you must show him to me, or I'll knock
you down.' 'I will do as I please; I have no orders to receive from you,' answered Cut-in-half,
riled at this threat. You shall not knock me down; and if you do not take yourself off from
this, or if you return, I---' Flip flap! went the Alderman, interrupting Cut-in-half by a duet
of blows enough to silence a rhinoceros: 'There is what you get for answering to the Alderman
of Little Poland.'"

"Two blows! it was too little," said Blue Cap; "in his place, I should have given him a bigger
dose."

"And he should not have had it too hastily," added a prisoner.

"The Alderman," replied Pique-Vinaigre, "could have eaten ten like Cut-in-half. So he was obliged
to put these blows in his pocket; but he was none the less furious at being struck, and above
all, before Gringalet. So at this very moment he promised to avenge himself, and an idea occurred
to him which could only have occurred to a demon of wickedness like himself. While he was ruminating
on this diabolical idea, the Alderman said: 'Remember, that if you attempt to injure this child
again, I will force you to clear out from Little Poland, you and your beasts; otherwise I will
stir up the neighborhood against you; you know they hate you here, so you will have a passport
which your back will remember, I promise you.' Traitor as he was, in order to be able to execute
his wicked idea, instead of continuing to be angry against the Alderman, Cut-in-half cringed
like a dog, and said: 'Faith of a man! you were wrong to strike me, Alderman, and to think
that I wished any harm to Gringalet; on the contrary, I repeat to you that I was teaching a
new trick to my ape; he is not sweet-tempered when he is angry, and if, in the scuffle, the
little one was bitten, I am sorry for it. 'Hum!' said the Alderman, looking at him out of the
corner of his eye, 'is this really true, what you tell me? If you wish to teach a trick to
your ape, why did you fasten him to Gringalet?' 'Because Gringalet must also know it. This
is what I wish to do; I will dress Gargousse in a red coat and a cap with feathers; I will
seat Gringalet in a child's chair; then I will put a towel around his neck, and the ape, with
a large wooden razor will pretend to shave him.'

"The Alderman could not keep from laughing at this idea. 'Is it not comical?' said Cut-in-half,
with a smirking look. 'In truth, it is,' said the Alderman, 'so much the more as they say your
ape is sufficiently cunning and knowing to play such a part.

"'I think so. When he has seen me five or six times pretend to shave Gringalet, he will imitate
me with his large wooden razor; but on that account, as the child must become used to him,
I have tied them together.'

"'But why have you chosen Gringalet rather than any other?'

"'Because he is the smallest of all, and, being seated, Gargousse will be larger than he is;
besides, I intended to give half the profits to Gringalet.'

"'If this is so,' said the Alderman, reassured by the hypocrisy of the owner of the beasts,
'I regret the dose I gave you; consider it as an advance against the next time you do wrong.'

"While his master spoke with the Alderman, Gringalet dared not breathe; he trembled like a
leaf, and longed to throw himself at the Alderman's feet, and beg to be taken away; but his
courage failed him, and he began again to despair, saying to himself, 'I shall be like the
poor fly of my dream--the spider will devour me; I was wrong to believe that the golden gnat
would save me!'

"'Look here, my boy; since Daddy Cut-'em-in-half gives you half of the money, that ought to
encourage you to accustom yourself to the ape. Bah! bah! you will do it; and if the profits
are large, you will have no cause to complain.'

"'He complain! Have you any reason to complain?' asked his master, giving him a side look so
terrible that the child wished he was a hundred feet under ground.

"'No, no, master!' he stammered.

"'You see, Alderman,' said Cut-in-half, 'he never has complained. I only wish for his welfare,
after all. If Gargousse scratched him the first time, it shall not happen again, I promise
you. I will watch.'

"'Very well! Thus every one will be content.'

"'Gringalet the most,' said Cut-in-half; 'is it not so?'

"'Yes, yes, master,' said the trembling child.

"'And to console you for your scratches, I will give you part of a good breakfast; for the
Alderman is going to send a plate of cutlets and pickles, four bottles of wine, and a gallon
of brandy.'

"'At your service, Cut-in-half, my cellar and my kitchen are open for the whole world.'

"At heart the Alderman was a good man, but he was not very wise, and he liked to sell his wine,
and cutlets also. The rascal knew it well; you see that he sent him off contented at having
sold some eatables and drinkables, and reassured as to the fate of Gringalet. So now, here
is the poor little fellow fallen again into the power of his master. The moment the Alderman
had turned on his heels, Cut-in-half showed the staircase to his victim, and ordered him to
mount at once to his garret; the child did not allow him to say it twice, but went, very much
alarmed.

"'Oh, Lord! I am lost,' he cried, throwing himself upon the straw beside his turtle, and weeping
bitterly. He was there for a good hour sobbing, when he heard Cut-in-half's coarse voice calling
him. What increased the fear of Gringalet was, that it seemed to him the voice of his master
had a strange sound.

"'Will you come down at once?' said the owner of the beasts, with a horrid oath.

"The child quickly descended the stairs. Hardly had he put his foot on the ground, when his
master seized him, and carried him to his chamber, staggering at each step, for Cut-in-half
had drunk so much that he was as tipsy as a sow, and could hardly keep his legs; his body swayed
backward and forward, and he looked at Gringalet, rolling his eyes in a most ferocious manner,
but without speaking. He had too thick a tongue. Never had the child been more afraid of him.

"Gargousse was chained to the foot of the bed. In the middle of the room was a chair with a
cord hanging on the back.

"'Si--(hic!)--sit down there,'" continued Pique-Vinaigre, imitating, to the end of his story,
the stammering of a drunken man, whenever he related what Cut-in-half said.

"Gringalet seated himself trembling. Then Cut-in-half, without saying a word, wound the cord
around him, and tied him to the chair, and that not easily; for although the owner of the beasts
could still see a little, and knew what he was about, you may imagine he made granny's knots.
At length Gringalet is firmly fastened in the chair. 'Oh, dear,' he murmured, 'this time no
one will come to deliver me.'

"Poor little fellow, he was right; no one could--no one did come, as you will see. The Alderman
had gone, and Cut-in-half had double-locked the door of the court on the inside, and drawn
the bolt; no one could come there to the aid of Gringalet."

"Oh! this time," said several of the prisoners, much interested in the story, "Gringalet, you
are lost!"

"Poor little fellow!"---"What a pity!"

"If twenty sous would save him, I would give them."

"I also."

"Rascal of a Cut-in-half! Whatever is he going to do?"

Pique-Vinaigre continued: "When Gringalet was tied to the chair, his master said to him, 'You
young rascal, it is you who have been the cause that--I have been beaten by the Alderman--you--are--go-o-o-ing
to die!' And he drew from his pocket a large razor, newly sharpened, opened it, and took with
one hand Gringalet by the hair."

A murmur of indignation and horror circulated among the prisoners, and interrupted for a moment
Pique-Vinaigre, who resumed:

"At sight of the razor the child began to cry, 'Pardon! master, pardon! do not kill me! 'C-r-r-r-y,
c-r-r-y, b-o-o-y--you will not (hic!) cry long,' answered Cut-in-half.

"'Golden gnat! golden gnat! help!' cried poor Gringalet, almost delirious, recalling to his
mind his dream; 'here is the spider going to kill me!'

"'Ah! you call--me--a-a-a (hic!) spider!' said Cut-in-half; 'on account--o-of--that--and other
things you--are--go-o-o-ing to (hic!) die--do you hear-r-r?--but--not by my (hic!) hand--because,
besides, they will guillotine me-e-e. I will say--and--prove--that it was--the a-a-pe--I have
prepared--but no matter!' said Cut-in-half, hardly able to stand; then, calling his ape, which,
at the end of his chain, ground his teeth, and looked alternately at his master and the child:

"'Look here, Gargousse,' he said showing him the razor and Gringalet, whom he held by the hair,
'you must do so to him; do you (hic!) see?'

"And passing the back of the razor several times over the throat of Gringalet, he pretended
to cut it. The confounded ape was such a good imitator, so wicked, and so malicious, that he
comprehended what his master wished; and, to prove it to him, shook his chain with the left
paw, threw his head back, and pretended to cut his throat. 'That's it, Gargousse-- that's it,'
said Cut-in-half stammering, shutting his eyes, and reeling so much that he came near, falling
with Gringalet and the chair. 'Yes, that's it; I'll unfasten your chain--cut his whistle--that's
it; hey, Gargousse?'

"The ape cried and chattered, as if to say yes, and put out his paw to take the razor, which
was held toward him.

"'Golden gnat, help!' murmured Gringalet, in a crying tone, certain now that his hour was come.
For, alas! he called the golden gnat to his assistance, without any hope that he would come;
but he said that as one says 'Oh, Lord!' when one is drowning. Just at this moment, Gringalet
saw come in at the window one of those small flies, green and gold, which are so common; one
would have called it a spark of fire which flew, and just at the moment Cut-in-half gave the
razor to Gargousse, the golden gnat flew straight into the eye of the wicked wretch. A fly
in the eye is no great thing; but, for a moment, it stings like a prick with a needle; so Cut-in-half,
who could hardly stand, fell on the floor and rolled like a log to the foot of the bed where
Gargousse was chained.

"'Golden gnat, I thank you; you have saved me!' cried Gringalet; for, still seated, and tied
on the chair, he had seen everything."

"It is true enough, the golden gnat prevented his throat from being cut," cried the prisoners,
transported with joy.

"Hooray for the golden gnat!" cried Blue Cap.

"Yes, long live the golden gnat!" repeated several voices.

"Bravo, Pique-Vinaigre and his stories!" said another.

"Stop, then," resumed the patterer, "here's the finest and most terrible part of the story
that I had promised you. Cut-in-half had fallen on the ground like lead; he was so drunk that
he stirred no more than a log; he was dead drunk, and knew nothing; but, in falling, he came
near crushing Gargousse, and had almost broken one of his hind paws. You know how wicked this
villainous beast was--rancorous and malicious. He held on to the razor which his master had
given him to cut the throat of Gringalet. What does my lovely ape do when he sees his master
stretched on his back, immovable as a fried carp, and much at his ease? He sprung upon him,
crouched on his breast, with one of his paws stretched the skin of his throat, and with the
other--click! he cut his windpipe in a moment, exactly as Cut-in-half had shown him how to
operate on Gringalet."

"Bravo!"

"Well done!"

"Long live Gargousse!"

"The little golden gnat forever!"

"Bravo, Gringalet!"

"Hooray, Gargousse!" cried the prisoners with enthusiasm.

"Well, my friends!" cried Pique-Vinaigre, enchanted at the success of his story, "what you
have just cried, all Little Poland cried an hour later."

"How is that--how?"

"I told you that, to do this bloody deed quite at his ease, Cut-in-half had locked his door
on the inside. In the evening, the children returned, one after the other, with their beasts;
the first knocked--no answer; at length, when they were all assembled, they knocked again--no
reply; one of them went after the Alderman, and told him that they had knocked, and that their
master did not open the door. 'The fellow is as drunk as a Dutchman,' said he. 'I sent him
some wine just now; we must break open the door; the children cannot remain all night out of
doors.'

"They break open the doors, they enter, they mount the stairs, they reach the chamber, and
what do they see? Gargousse, chained and crouching on the body of his master, and playing with
the razor; poor Gringalet, happily out of his reach, still seated, and tied on the chair, not
daring to cast his eyes on the dead body, and looking at--guess what? The little golden fly,
which, after having fluttered around the child, as if to felicitate him, had finally come and
seated itself on his little hand. Gringalet related all to the Alderman, and the crowd who
followed him; this appeared truly, as they said, an act of Providence; then the Alderman said,
'A triumph to Gringalet; a triumph to Gargousse, who has killed this bad Cut-in-half. He cut
others; it was his turn to be cut!'

"'Yes, yes!' said the crowd, for the defunct was detested by everybody, 'a triumph for Gargousse!
a triumph for Gringalet.'

"It was night; they lighted wisps of straw, they tied Gargousse on a bench, which four boys
carried on their shoulders; the sweet pet of an ape did not appear to dislike this, and assumed
the airs of a conqueror, showing his teeth to the crowd. After the ape came the Alderman, carrying
Gringalet in his arms: all the little boys, each with his beast, surrounded the Alderman; one
carrying his fox, another his marmoset, another his guinea-pig: those who played on the hurdygurdy,
played on the hurdygurdy; there were chimney-sweeps, with their bagpipes, who also played;
it was an uproar of joy, which cannot be imagined! Behind the musicians came all the inhabitants
of Little Poland, men, women, and children; they all held torches, and shouted like madmen,
'Hooray, Gringalet!' 'Gargousse forever!' The cortege in this order marched round the house
of Cut-in-half. It was a droll spectacle; the old buildings and all the figures illuminated
by the red light of the straw fires, which flickered, and sparkled, and blazed up! As to Gringalet,
the first thing he did, once at liberty, was to place the little golden fly in a paper box;
and he kept repeating, during his triumph, 'Little golden gnat, I did well to hinder the spiders
from eating you, for---'"

The recital of Pique-Vinaigre was interrupted.

"Roussel, ahoy!" cried a voice from without; "come then, and eat your soup; four o'clock will
strike in ten minutes."

"All right! the story is about finished. I'll go. Thank you, my boy, you have amused me finely;
you may be proud of it," said the keeper to Pique-Vinaigre, going toward the door. Then, stopping,
"Be good boys!" he added, to the prisoners, turning around.

"We are going to hear the end of the story," said Skeleton, almost bursting with restrained
rage. Then he whispered to the Big Cripple, "Go to the door, look after the keeper, and when
you have seen him go out of the court, cry 'Gargousse!' and the spy is dead."

"Just so," said the Cripple, who accompanied the keeper, and remained standing near the door,
watching him.

"I told you, then," said Pique-Vinaigre, "that Gringalet, all the time of his triumph, said
to himself, 'Little gnat, I have---'"

"Gargousse!" cried the cripple.

"Mine! Gringalet, I will be your spider!" shouted Skeleton, throwing himself on Germain so
that he could neither make a movement nor utter a cry. His voice died under the formidable
grasp of the long iron fingers.

CHAPTER XI.

AN UNEXPECTED FRIEND.

"If you are the spider, I will be the golden gnat, Skeleton of evil!" cried a voice, at the
moment when Germain, surprised by the violence and sudden attack of his implacable enemy, fell
backward on his bench, at the mercy of the ruffian, who, with one knee on his breast, held
him by the throat. "Yes, I will be the gnat, and, what is more, a famous gnat!" repeated the
man in the blue cap, of whom we have spoken; then, with a furious bound, overturning three
or four prisoners who separated him from Germain, he sprung upon Skeleton, and struck him on
his head, between the eyes, such a torrent of blows with his fists that the sound was like
a hammer upon an anvil.

The man in the blue cap (who was no other than the Chourineur) added, as he redoubled the rapidity
of his hammering on the head of the Skeleton, "It is the hail-storm of fisticuffs which M.
Rudolph planted on my skull. I have learned the trick."

At this unexpected assault, the prisoners were struck with surprise, taking no part for or
against the Chourineur. Many of them, still under the salutary impression of the story of Pique-Vinaigre,
were even satisfied at this incident, which might save Germain. Skeleton, at first stunned,
staggered like an ox under the butcher's ax, extended his hand mechanically to ward off the
blows of his enemy. Germain was enabled to disengage himself from the mortal grip, and half arose.

"But what is all this? who is this bruiser?" cried the Cripple; and springing upon the Chourineur,
he tried to seize his arms from behind, while the latter endeavored to hold down Skeleton on
the bench.

The defender of Germain answered the attack by a kick so violent, that he sent the Cripple
rolling to the extremity of the circle formed by the prisoners. Germain, of a livid paleness,
half suffocated, kneeling beside the bench, did not appear to have any consciousness of what
was passing around him. The strangulation had been so violent and painful he hardly breathed.
After he had recovered a little, Skeleton, by a desperate effort, succeeded in shaking off
the Chourineur, and getting upon his feet. Panting, drunk with rage and hatred, he was frightful.
His cadaverous face streamed with blood, his upper lip, drawn back like a mad wolfs, displayed
his teeth closely set against each other. At length he cried, in a voice breathless with anger
and fatigue, for his struggle with the Chourineur had been violent, "Cut him down, the turncoat,
cowards! who let me be attacked traitorously, or the spy will escape."

During this kind of truce, the Chourineur, raising up the half-fainting Germain, had skillfully
managed to approach by degrees an angle of the wall, where he placed him. Profiting by this
excellent position of defense, the Chourineur could then, without fear of being attacked from
behind, hold out a long time against the prisoners, on whom the courage and Herculean strength
which he had just displayed made a powerful impression. Pique-Vinaigre, alarmed, had disappeared
during the tumult, without any one remarking his absence.

Seeing the hesitation of the greater part of the prisoners, Skeleton said, "Come on, then,
let us do the job for both of them, the big 'un and the little spy."

"Not too fast!" answered the Chourineur, preparing for the combat; "look out for yourself,
Bones! If you wish to play Cut-in-half, I will play Gargousse--I'll cut your weasand."

"Why don't you jump on him?" cried the Cripple. "Why does this madman defend the spy? Death
to the spy, and him also! If he defends Germain, he is a traitor."

"Yes! yes!"

"Death to the betrayers!"

"Death!"

"Yes; death to the traitor who defends him!"

Such were the cries of several of the prisoners. A part of them, more merciful, cried, "Not
before he speaks!"

"Yes, let him explain!"

"A man must not be killed without a hearing!"

"And without defense!"

"One would be a regular Cut-in-half!"

"So much the better!" answered the Cripple and the partisans of Skeleton.

"One cannot do too much to a spy!"

"Death to him!"

"Fall upon him!"

"Let us support Skeleton!"

"Yes, yes! down with the Blue Cap!"

"No; let us sustain the Blue Cap! hang the Skeleton!" answered the party of the Chourineur.

"No; down with the Blue Cap!"

"Down with Skeleton!"

"That's the ticket, pals!" cried the Chourineur, addressing those prisoners who ranged themselves
on his side; "you have hearts; you will not see a man murdered who is half dead; only cowards
are capable of such conduct. Skeleton is no bad joker; he is condemned in advance; that is
the reason why he urges you on. But if you aid him to kill Germain, you will be roughly treated.
Besides, I have a proposition to make. Skeleton wants to finish this young man. Well! let him
come and take him, if he can: it will be a match between ourselves; we will walk into each
other, and you will see; but he dares not--he is like Cut-in-half, strong among the kids."

The vigor, energy, and hardy aspect of the Chourineur had a powerful effect on the prisoners;
a considerable number ranged themselves on his side, and surrounded Germain; Skeleton's party
were grouped around that ruffian. A bloody affray was about to take place, when the quick and
measured step of a guard of infantry was heard in the court. Pique-Vinaigre, profiting by the
noise and general commotion, had gained the court and knocked at the wicket, in order to inform
the keepers of what was going on in the hall. The arrival of the soldiers put an end to the
scene. Germain, Skeleton, and the Chourineur were conducted to the governor's presence; the
first to lodge his complaint, the others to answer the charge of a fight in the prison.

The alarm and sufferings of Germain were so intense, his weakness so great, that he was obliged
to lean on two of the keepers to reach the governor's room. There he became quite faint; his
excoriated throat bore the livid and bloody marks of the Skeleton's iron fingers. A few seconds
more, and the betrothed of Rigolette would have been strangled. The keeper charged with the
hall watch, who, as we have said, was much interested for Germain, gave him every assistance.
When he came to himself, when reflection succeeded the rapid and terrible emotions that had
hardly left him the exercise of his reason, his first thought was for his deliverer.

"Thank you for your attentions, sir," he said to the keeper; "but for that courageous man,
I was lost."

"How are you now?"

"Better. Ah! all that has passed seems to me like a horrid dream!"

"Recover yourself."

"And my savior, where is he?"

"In the governor's room. He is telling how the affray occurred. It appears that without him----"

"I should have been murdered, sir. Oh! tell me his name--who is he?"

"His name I do not know; he is nicknamed the Slasher; he was once in the galleys."

"And the crime which brought him here, perhaps, is not serious?"

"Very serious--burglary," said the keeper. "He will probably have the same dose as Pique-Vinaigre;
fifteen or twenty years of hard labor, and the pillory, as he is an old offender."

Germain shuddered; he would have preferred to be bound by the ties of gratitude to one less
criminal.

"Oh! it is frightful," he said; "and yet this man, without knowing me, took my part. So much
courage, so much generosity."

"What would you have, sir? Sometimes there is some good left in these people. The most important
fact is, that you are saved; to-morrow you will have your own cell, and for to-night you will
sleep in the infirmary, according to orders. Come, courage, sir! The worst is over; when your
pretty little visitor comes to see you, you can reassure her; for, once in your own cell, you
will have nothing more to fear."

"Oh! no, I will not speak to her about it; but I wish to thank my defender. However culpable
he may be in the eyes of the law, he has none the less saved my life."

"I hear him leaving the governor's room. Skeleton is now to be examined; I will take them back
together, Skeleton to the dungeon, and the Slasher to the Lions' Den. He will, besides, be
a little recompensed for what he has done for you; for as he is a bold and determined fellow,
such as one should be to lead others, it is probable that he will take the place of Skeleton
as provost."

The Slasher having crossed a little lobby, on which opened the governor's room, entered the
apartment where Germain was seated.

"Wait for me here," said the keeper to the Slasher; "I am going to learn what the governor
decides to do with the Skeleton, and I will return directly for you. There is our young man
quite recovered; he wishes to thank you, and he has reason too, for without you all had been
finished for him." The keeper retired. Slasher's features were radiant with delight. He advanced
joyfully, saying:

"Thunder! how happy I am at saving you!" And he extended his hand to Germain.

He, from a feeling of involuntary repulsion, at first drew back slightly, instead of taking
the hand offered by the Slasher; then, recollecting that, after all, he owed his life to this
man, he wished to make amends for this first movement of repugnance. But the Slasher had perceived
it; a gloom spread over his face, and drawing back in his turn, he said, with much bitterness,
"Ah! it is right. Pardon me, sir."

"No, it is I who should ask your pardon. Am I not a prisoner like you? I should only think
of the service you have rendered me--you have saved my life. Your hand, friend, I entreat you.
I pray you, your hand."

"Thank you; now it is useless. The first movement is everything. If you had at first given
me your hand, that would have given me pleasure; but, on reflection, it is I who do not wish
it. Not because I am a prisoner, like you, but," he added, in a hesitating and gloomy manner,
"because, before I was here, I was--"

"The keeper has told me all," replied Germain, interrupting him; "but you have none the less
saved my life."

"I have done but my duty and pleasure, for I know who you are, M. Germain."

"You know me?"

"A little, my boy; I talk to you like a father," said the Slasher, resuming his tone of habitual
carelessness; "and you would be very wrong to place my arrival at La Force on the back of chance.
If I had not known you, I should not have been here."

Germain looked at the Slasher with the utmost surprise.

"How, because you knew me---"

"I am here a prisoner in La Force."

"I wish to believe you, but---"

"But you do not believe me."

"I wish to say that it is impossible for me to comprehend how it can be that I have anything
to do with your imprisonment."

"Have anything to do? You have everything."

"I have this misfortune!"

"A misfortune! On the contrary, it is I who am indebted to you; and very much, that is more."

"To me--you indebted to me!"

"Yes, for having procured me the advantage of making a call at La Force."

"Truly," said Germain, passing his hand over his face, "I do not know whether the terrible
shock I received has impaired my reason, but it is impossible for me to understand you. The
keeper has just told me that you were accused of--of--" And Germain hesitated.

"Of robbery, I dare say? Yes, burglary, and at night, into the bargain! Everything under full
sail," cried the Slasher, shouting with laughter. "Nothing was wanting--my robbery had all
the modern improvements to make it a bang-up work."

Germain, painfully affected by the audacious boldness of the Slasher, could not help saying,
"How, you, so brave, so generous, talk thus? Do you not know the terrible punishment that awaits
you?"

"Twenty years in the galleys, and the pillory! I am a headstrong scoundrel, to take it so coolly?
But what would you have when one is in for it? And yet to think that it is you, M. Germain,"
added the Slasher, uttering a heavy sigh, in a manner jokingly contrite, "who are the cause
of my misfortune!"

"When you explain yourself more clearly, I shall understand you. Joke as much as you please,
my gratitude for the service you have rendered me will be none the less," said Germain, sadly.

"I ask your pardon, M. Germain," answered the Slasher, becoming more serious; "you do not like
to see me laugh at this; let us speak no more about it. I must have a little explanation with
you, and force you, perhaps, once more to offer me your hand."

"I do not doubt it; for, notwithstanding the crime of which you are accused, and of which you
accuse yourself, everything in you announces courage and frankness. I am sure you are unjustly
suspected; appearances, perhaps, compromise you."

"Oh! as to that, you are wrong, M. Germain," said the Slasher, so seriously this time, and
with such an accent of sincerity, that Germain was forced to believe him. "As true as that
I have a protector" (the Slasher took off his cap), "who is for me what the Judge above is
for the good priests, I robbed at night, by breaking in at a window; I was caught in the fact,
and secured, with the stolen goods in my possession."

"But want, hunger, drove you, then, to this extremity?"

"Hunger? I had a hundred and twenty francs when they arrested me--the change of a thousand-franc
note, without counting that the protector of whom I have spoken, who does not know that I am
here, will never let me want anything. But since I have spoken to you of my protector, you
ought to believe that I am speaking the truth, because before him it is like going down on
your knees. The torrent of blows I rained down on Bones is a fashion of his, which I copied
after nature. The idea of the robbery, on account of him, came into my head. In fine, if you
are here, instead of being strangled by Skeleton, thanks to him."

"But this protector?"

"Is yours also."

"Mine?"

"Yes! M. Rudolph protects you; when I say Monsieur, it is his highness that I ought to say,
for he is a prince; but I am accustomed to call him M. Rudolph, and he allows it."

"You mistake," said Germain, more and more surprise; "I do not know any prince."

"Yes, but he knows you; you do not doubt it? It is possible--it is his way. He hears there
is a good man in trouble--slap! the good man is relieved, and he is neither seen nor known.
I perplex you; for him happiness falls from the clouds like a tile on the head. Thus, patience!
some day or other you will receive your tile."

"Truly, what you say confounds me."

"You will have a great deal more of the same! To return to my protector: some time since, after
a service which he pretended I had rendered him, he procured me a slap-up situation. I have
no need to tell you what--it would be too long; in a word, he sent me to Marseilles, to embark
for my place. I left Paris contented as a beggar! Good! But soon that changed. A supposition:
let us say that I left on a fine sunny day. Well! the next day is cloudy; the day after very
cloudy, and every succeeding day more and more so, until, at length, it became as black as
the devil. Do you comprehend?"

"Not exactly."

"Well, let us see. Did you ever keep a pup?"

"What a singular question!"

"Have you had a dog that loved you well, and that was lost?"

"No."

"Then I will tell you at once, that when at a distance from M. Rudolph, I was restless, uneasy,
alarmed, like a dog that had lost his master. It was brutish, but the dogs also are brutes,
and this does not prevent them from being attached to their masters, and remembering quite
as much the good mouthfuls as the kickings they are accustomed to receive; and M. Rudolph had
given me better than good mouthfuls, for, do you see, for me M. Rudolph is all in all. From
a wicked, brutal, savage, and riotous rascal, he made me a kind of honest man, by saying only
two words to me; but those words were like magic."

"And those words, what are they? What did he say to you?"

"He told me that I had still a 'heart' and 'honor,' although I had been to the hulks--not for
having robbed, it is true. Oh! that, never, but for what is worse, perhaps--for having killed.
Yes," said the Slasher, in a sad tone, "yes, killed in a moment of anger, because from my childhood,
brought up like a brute, without father or mother, abandoned in the streets of Paris, I knew
neither God nor the devil, nor good nor evil, nor strong nor weak. Sometimes the blood rushed
to my eyes, I saw red, and if I had a knife in my hand, I stabbed--I stabbed! I was like a
wolf; I could not frequent any other places than those where I met beggars and ruffians; I
did not put crape on my hat for that. I was obliged to live in the mire; I did not even know
I was there. But, when M. Rudolph told me that since in spite of the contempt of the world
and misery, instead of stealing, as others did, I had preferred to work as much as I could,
and at what I could, that showed I had a heart and honor. Thunder! those two words had the
same effect upon me as if some one had caught me by the hair, and raised me a thousand feet
in the air above the beggars with whom I lived, and showed me in what mire I wallowed. Then,
of course, I said, 'Thank you, I have enough.' Then my heart beat with something besides anger,
and I swore to myself always to preserve this honor of which M. Rudolph had spoken. You see,
M. Germain, by telling me with kindness that I was not as bad as I thought, M. Rudolph encouraged
me, and, thanks to him, I have become better than I was."

On hearing this language, Germain comprehended still less how the Slasher could have committed
the robbery of which he accused himself.

"No," thought Germain, "it is impossible; this man, who suffers himself to be thus carried
away by the simple words honor and heart, cannot have committed this robbery of which he speaks
with such ease."

The Slasher continued, without remarking the astonishment of Germain: "Finally, the reason
why I am to M. Rudolph like a dog to his master, is that he has raised me in my own estimation.
Before I knew him, I was only sensible to the touch; but he made me feel within, and deep down,
I bet you. Once separated from him and the place where he dwelt, I found myself like a body
without a soul. As I traveled on, I said to myself, 'He leads such a queer life! he mingles
with such great scoundrels (I know something about it), that he will risk his bones twenty
times a day,' and it is under these circumstances that I could play the dog for him, and defend
my master; for I have good teeth. But, on the other hand, he had told me, 'You must, my friend,
make yourself useful to others; go, then, where you may be of some good.' I had a great desire
to answer him, 'For me, there is no one to serve, but you, M. Rudolph.' But I did not dare.
He had told me to 'Go.' I went; and I have obeyed him as well as I was able. But, thunder!
when the time came to get into the tub, leave France, and place the sea between M. Rudolph
and me, without the hope of ever seeing him again, in truth, I had not the courage. He told
his correspondent to give me a heap of money as heavy as I am when I should embark. I went
to see the gentleman. I told him, 'It is impossible just now; I prefer the solid ground. Give
me enough to get back to Paris on foot. I have good legs. I cannot embark. M. Rudolph may say
what he pleases; he will be angry, he will not see me any more. Possibly I shall see him; I
shall be where he is; and if he continues the life he leads, sooner or later, I shall arrive
in time, perhaps, to put myself between a knife and him.' And, besides, I cannot live so far
away from him. At length they gave me enough for my journey. I arrived at Paris. I do not fear
trifles: but once back fear seized me. What could I say to M. Rudolph to excuse myself for
having returned without his permission? Bah! after all, he will not eat me. What is to be will
be. I will go to find his friend a bald man--another trump, this one. Thunder! when M. Murphy
came in, I said, 'My fate will be decided.' I felt my throat dry--my heart beat a tattoo. I
expected to be scolded soundly. The worthy man received me as as if he had left me the evening
previous. He told me that M. Rudolph, far from being angry, wished to see me at once. In short,
he took me to my protector. Thunder! when I found myself again face to face with him, who has
such an open hand and so good a heart, terrible as a lion, and gentle as a child, a prince,
who has worn a blouse like me--to have the opportunity (which I bless) of punching my eye.
Faith, M. Germain, on thinking of all these fascinations which he possesses, I felt myself
done up. I wept like a doe. Well! instead of laughing--for imagine my mug when I weep--M. Rudolph
said to me, seriously:

"'So you are back again, my good fellow?'

"'Yes, M. Rudolph, pardon me if I am wrong, but I could not go. Make me a little nest in the
corner of your court, give me my food, or let me earn it here; that is all I ask from you;
and, above all, do not be angry because I have returned.'

"'I am so far from that, my good friend, that you have returned just in time to render me a
service.'

"'I, M. Rudolph! Can it be possible! Well, do you see, it must be, as you told me, that there
is Something upstairs; otherwise, how explain that I arrive here just at the moment when you
have need of me? What is it, then, I can, do for you, M. Rudolph--jump from the top of the
towers of Notre-Dame?'

"'Less than that, my man. An honest, excellent young man, in whom I am as much interested as
if he were my son, is unjustly accused of robbery, and confined in La Force; he is called Germain,
and is of a mild and gentle disposition; the scoundrels with whom he is imprisoned have taken
an aversion to him; he may be in great danger; you, who have unfortunately the experience of
a prison life, and know a great number of prisoners, could you not, in case some of your old
comrades should be at La Force, could you not go and see them, and, by promises of money which
shall be faithfully kept, engage them to protect this unhappy young man?'"

"But who, then, is this generous and unknown man, who takes so much interest in my fate?" said
Germain, more and more surprised.

"You will know, perhaps; as for me, I am ignorant. To return to my conversation with M. Rudolph:
while he was talking an idea struck me, but an idea so laughable, that I could not keep from
laughing before him. 'What is the matter?' said he.

"'M. Rudolph, I laugh, because I am content, and I am content because I have the means of placing
your M. Germain out of all dangers, by giving him a protector who will defend him bravely;
for, once the young man is under the wing of the fellow of whom I speak, there is not one of
them will dare to come and look under his nose.'

"' Very well, my friend; it is doubtless one of your old companions?'

"' Exactly, M. Rudolph; he entered La Force some days ago; I learned this on my arrival; but
we must have some money.'

"'How much?'

"'A thousand francs.'

"'Here they are.'

"'Thank you, M. Rudolph; in two days you shall hear from me; your servant, sirs.' Thunder!
the king was not my master: I could render a service to M. Rudolph by joining you; it was that
which was famous."

"I begin to understand, or rather, I tremble to understand," cried Germain; "such fidelity
cannot be possible! to come to protect me, defend me in this prison, you have, perhaps, committed
a robbery? oh! this would be the sorrow of my whole life."

"Stop a bit! M. Rudolph had told me that I had a heart and honor; these words are my law, do
you see; and he can tell me so yet; for if I am no better than formerly, at least I am no worse."

"But this robbery? this robbery? If you have not committed it, how are you here?"

"Stop a moment. Here is the plant; with my thousand francs I went and bought a black wig; I
shaved off my whiskers; I put on blue spectacles; I stuck a pillow on my back, and made up
a hump. I began at once to look for one or two rooms on a ground floor in a retired street.
I found my affair in the Rue du Provence; I paid my rent in advance under the name of Gregoire.
The next day I went to the Temple to buy furniture for my two rooms, always wearing my black
wig, hump, and blue barnacles, so that I might be well known. I sent the things to the Rue
du Provence, and six silver spoons and forks which I bought on the Boulevard Saint Denis, still
in my disguise as a hunchback. I returned to put all these in order in my domicile, I said
to the porter that I should not sleep there for two days, and I carried away my key. The windows
of the two rooms were fastened by strong shutters. Before I went away, I left one unfastened
on the inside. At night I took off my wig, goggles, and hump, with which I had been to make
my purchases and hired my rooms. I put this disguise in a trunk, which I sent to the address
of M. Murphy, the friend of M. Rudolph, begging him to take care of it. I bought this blouse
and blue cap, and a jimmy, and at one o'clock in the morning I came to the Rue du Provence
to hang about my lodgings waiting until the patrol should pass, to commence my robbery, my
burglary, in order to be copped!"

The Slasher was unable to suppress a hearty fit of laughter. "Oh! I comprehend," cried Germain.

"But you will see if I had not ill-luck: no police passed. I could have robbed myself twenty
times at my ease. At length, about two o'clock, I heard the snails at the end of the street;
I opened my window, and broke two or three panes of glass to make a devil of a noise; I dashed
in the window, jumped into the room, and seized the money box and some clothes. Happily, the
patrol had heard the jingling of the glass just as I got out of the window. I was nabbed by
the guard, who, at the noise of breaking glass, had come to see what was the matter. They knocked
at the door; the porter opened it; they sent for the commissary; he came; the porter said that
the rooms had been taken the evening previous by a gentleman with a hunchback, with black hair
and blue spectacles, and who was named Gregoire. I had the flaxen wool which you see; I had
my eyes open like a hare in her form; I was as straight as a Russian at the command, 'Carry
arms!' They could never take me for the hunchback, with blue spectacles and black locks. I
confessed every, thing; I was arrested; they took me to the station--from there, here; and
I arrived at a good moment, just in time to snatch from the claws of the Skeleton the young
man of whom M. Rudolph had said, 'I am as much interested for him as for my own son.'"

"Oh! what do I not owe you for such services!" cried Germain.

"It is not me--it is to M. Rudolph you owe it.'

"But the cause of his interest for me."

"He will tell you, unless he does not choose to do so; for often he is pleased to do good,
and if you take it into your head to ask him why, he will not mind answering, 'Mind your own
business!'"

"And does M. Rudolph know that you are here?"

"Not so stupid as to tell him my idea; he would not, perhaps, have allowed me the fun, and
without bragging, it is rich."

"But the risks you have run and still run?"

"What did I risk? not to be conducted to La Force, where you were, that is true. But I counted
on the protection of M. Rudolph, to have my prison changed and join you; a lord like him can
do everything. And when I was once shut up, he would have wished me to be of service to you."

"But when your trial comes on?"

"Well! I will beg M. Murphy to send me my trunk; I will put on before the big wig, my big wig,
the blue spectacles, and the hump, and I will become M. Gregoire again, send for the porter
who let me the chamber, and for the shopkeepers who sold me the furniture; so much for the
robbed. If they wish to see the robber again, I will throw off my disguise, and it will be
as clear as day that the robbed and the robber make the sum total of the Slasher, neither more
nor less. Then, what the devil would you have them do to me, when it shall be proved that I
have robbed myself?"

"That's true!" said Germain, more assured; "but since you felt so much interest for me, why
did you not speak to me on entering the prison?"

"I knew at once the plot which was formed against you; I could have exposed it before Pique-Vinaigre
had commenced his story: but to denounce even such ruffians does not go down with me. I preferred
to depend upon my fists to drag you from the paws of Skeleton. And, besides, when I saw this
brigand, I said to myself, 'Here is a fine occasion to practice the boxing of M. Rudolph, to
which I am indebted for the honor of his acquaintance."

"But if all the prisoners had taken part against you, what could you have done?"

"Then I should have screamed like an eagle, and called for help! But it suited me to do my
own cooking myself; to be able to say to M. Rudolph, 'No one but I meddled in the affair. I
have defended, and will defend, your young man; be tranquil!'"

At this moment the keeper entered quickly.

"M. Germain, come, make haste, to the governor's room. He wishes to speak to you at once. And
you, Slasher, my boy, descend to the hall. You shall be provost if it suits you, for you have
every requisite to fill the office, and the prisoners will not joke with a big un of your caliber."

"All the same to me-as well be captain as soldier while one is here."

"Will you still refuse my hand?" said Germain, cordially, to the Slasher.

"No, M. Germain, no; I believe that now I can allow myself this pleasure, and I do it with
all my heart."

"We shall see each other again, for I am now under your protection. I shall have nothing more
to fear, and from my cell I shall descend each day to the court."

"Be assured, if I wish it, they shall not speak to you except on all fours. But, now I think
of it, you know how to write; put down on paper what I have just related to you, and send it
to M. Rudolph; he will know that he need have no more uneasiness about you, and that I am here
for a good motive; for if he should learn elsewhere that the Slasher had stolen, and he did
not know the game--thunder! that would not suit me."

"Rest satisfied: this very night I will write to my unknown protector; to-morrow you will give
me his address, and the letter shall be sent. Adieu, once more, thank you, my good fellow."

"Adieu, M. Germain; I go to return among this band of rascals, of whom I am provost; they will
have to march pretty straight, or stand from under!"

"When I think that on my account you go to live for some time among these wretches--"

"What is that to me, now that there is no risk of their contaminating me. M. Rudolph has washed
me too well. I am insured against fire."

And the Slasher followed the keeper. Germain entered the apartment of the governor. What was
his surprise--he found Rigolette there.

Rigolette, pale, with deep emotion, her eyes bathed in tears, and yet smiling through these
tears, her face expressed a sentiment of joy, of happiness indescribable.

"I have good news to tell you, sir," said the governor. "The judges have just declared that
no action lies against you, and I have the order to set you immediately at liberty."

"What do you say, sir? Can it be possible?"

Rigolette wished to speak; her too lively emotion prevented her; she could only make to Germain
an affirmative sign with her head.

"This young lady arrived here a few moments after I had received the order to set you at liberty,"
added the governor. "A letter of all-powerful recommendation which she brought me has informed
me of the touching devotion she has shown you during your stay in prison, sir. It is, then,
with great pleasure that I have sent for you, certain that you would be very happy to give
your arm to the lady on leaving the place."

"A dream! surely it is a dream!" said Germain. "Oh, sir, what kindness! Pardon me if surprise--joy--prevents
me from thanking you as I ought."

"And I, too, M. Germain, cannot find a word to say," added Rigolette. "Judge of my happiness:
on leaving you, I found the friend of M. Rudolph waiting for me."

"M. Rudolph again!" said the astonished Germain.

"Yes; now I can tell you all. M. Murphy said to me then, 'Germain is free; here is a letter
for the governor of the prison; before you arrive, he will have received the order to set Germain
at liberty, and you can bring him away.' I could not believe what I heard, and yet it was true.
Quick--quick--I took a cab--I arrived--and it is now below waiting for us."

We renounce the attempt to describe the delight of the two lovers when they left La Force;
of the evening they passed in the little chamber of Rigolette, which Germain left at eleven
o'clock for a modest furnished apartment. Let us sum up in a few words the practical or theoretical
ideas we have endeavored to place in relief in this episode of a prison life. We shall esteem
ourselves very happy if we have shown the insufficiency, the impotency, and the danger of imprisonment
in common. The disproportion which exists between the appreciation and punishment of certain
crimes, and those of certain other offenses. And, finally, the material impossibility for the
poorer classes to enjoy the benefits of the civil laws.

CHAPTER XII.

PUNISHMENT.

We will conduct the reader again to the office of the notary, Jacques Ferrand. Thanks to the
habitual loquacity of the clerks, almost constantly occupied with the increasing caprices of
their patron, we can learn the events that occurred since the disappearance of Cecily.

"A hundred to ten, if the present state of his health continues, before a month the governor
will be as dead as a doornail."

"The fact is, that since the servant who had the air of an Alsatian has left the house, he
has had nothing but skin on his bones."

"And what skin!"

"I'll wager he was in love with this Alsatian, for it is since her departure that he has shriveled
up so!"

"He in love? what nonsense! on the contrary, he sees the priests more than ever; and the parish
cure, a very respectable man (one must be just), went away yesterday, saying (I overheard him)
to another priest who accompanied him,' This is admirable! M. Ferrand is the personification
of Charity and Generosity.'"

"The cure said that? of himself? without prompting?"

"Yes! I heard him."

"Then, I can't understand it at all. The cure has the reputation, and deserves it, of being
what is called a right good pastor."

"It is true; and of him we must speak seriously and with respect; he is as good and charitable
as 'Little Blue Mantle,' [Footnote: We must be allowed to mention here, with veneration, the
name of that excellent man, M. Champion, with whom we have not the honor of a personal acquaintance,
but of whom all the poor of Paris speak with as much respect as gratitude.] and when one says
that of a man he is judged."

"Ay, that is not a little to say."

"No. For 'Little Blue Mantle,' as well as for the good priest, the poor have only one word,
and a good word it is, from the heart."

"Then I return to my idea; when the cure affirms a thing, he must be believed, as he is incapable
of telling a falsehood; and yet to think as he does, that our master is charitable and generous--that
sticks in my throat."

"Oh! how pretty that is, Chalamel! how pretty."

"Seriously, I would just as soon believe that as I would a miracle. It would not be more difficult."

"M. Ferrand generous! he would skin an egg!"

"And yet the forty sous for our breakfast?"

"Beautiful proof! It is like a pimple on the end of a man's nose--it is an accident."

"Yes, but, on the other hand, the head clerk told me that three days ago he sold out an enormous
amount of treasury bonds, and that--"

"Well! speak then."

"It is a secret."

"So much the more reason for telling it."

"Your word and honor that you won't mention it?"

"On the heads of our children, we give it."

"And besides, let us remember what the great king Louis XIV. majestically said to the Doge
of Venice before his assembled court:

  "'When a secret's told a clerk,
    Its exposure he'll not burk!'"

"Good! there is Chalamel with his proverbs!"

"I demand the head of Chalamel!"

"Proverbs are the wisdom of nations; it is on that account I require your secret."

"Come, none of your nonsense. I tell you the head clerk made me a promise to speak of it to
no one."

"Yes; but he did not say that you should not tell it to every one?"

"It shall not go out of the office. Go on."

"He is dying with desire to tell us the secret."

"Well! the governor is about selling his notary's business. At this present moment, perhaps,
it is done."

"Nonsense!"

"Here is news!"

"Let us see, without charge, who charges himself with the charge which he discharges?"

"Tush! how insupportable Chalamel is with his riddles."

"Do you think I know to whom he sells it?"

"If he sells it, it is because, perhaps, he wishes to come out, give balls, routs, in the gay
world. After all, there is something in it."

"I think so, indeed! The head clerk spoke of more than a million, including the value of the
business."

"More than a million!"

"It is said that he has been gambling in stocks secretly with Commandant Robert, and that he
has made much money."

"Not to speak of his living like a curmudgeon."

"But these misers, when once they begin to spend money, become as prodigal as they were once mean."

"Well, I agree with Chalamel; I think that now the governor is coming out."

"And he would be most stupendously in the wrong not to bury himself in voluptuousness, and
not to plunge into the delights of Golconda, if he has the means; for, as the misty Ossian
says, in the grotto of Fingal,

  "'All-Ariel is it, yet not-arial, too,
      That he should still be right,
    Who roseate tapestry has in open view,
      And of his gold makes light.'"

"I demand the head of Chalamel!"

"It is absurd!"

"Yes, and the governor looks very much like a man who thinks of amusing himself. He has a face
that might cause the devil to appear on earth."

"And then the cure, who boasts of his charity!"

"Well-ordered charity begins at home."

"You do not know your ten commandments, heathen! If the governor asks from himself the alms
of great pleasures, it is his duty to grant them."

"What astonishes me is, that this intimate friend, who seems to have dropped from the clouds,
never leaves him."

"Not to mention his ugly face."

"He is as red as a carrot."

"I am rather inclined to believe that this intruder is the fruit of a first false step which
M. Ferrand has committed in the springtime of life, for, as the Eagle of Meaux said concerning
the taking of the veil by the tender La Valliere,

  "'Young or old, whiche'er you love,
    Crows may have an offspring dove!'"

"I demand the head of Chalamel!"

"In truth, with him it is impossible to talk reason a moment."

"What stupidity! To say that this stranger is the son of the governor, when he is the oldest,
as is easy to be seen--"

"Well, what of that?"

"How? what of that? The son older than the father?"

"It is very plain; in that case, the intruder must have made the false step, and be the father
of M. Ferrand, intead of being his son."

"I demand the head of Chalamel!"

"Do not listen to him; you know, when once he is in the way of saying stupid things, there
is no end to it."

"What is certain is, that this intruder has a bad face, and does not leave M. Ferrand for a
moment."

"He is always with him in his cabinet; they eat together; one does not move without the other."

"I think I have seen the man before."

"I think not."

"Tell me, gents, have you not also remarked that for some days past, there comes regularly
almost every two hours a man with great light mustaches and a military air, who asks the porter
for the intruder? The intruder comes down, talks for a moment with the man with mustaches,
after which the latter makes a half turn like an automaton, to come again in two hours after."

"It is true; I have remarked him. It seems to me, also, that I meet some men when I go into
the street who appear to be watching the house."

"Seriously, there is something extraordinary going on here."

"Who lives long enough will see."

"On this subject the head clerk, perhaps, knows more than we do. But he plays the diplomatist."

"Exactly; and where is he, then, for so long a time?"

"He has gone to the house of the countess who was stabbed; it appears that she is now out of
danger."

"The Countess M'Gregor?"

"Yes; this morning she sent for the governor to come at once, but he sent the head clerk in
his place."

"It is, perhaps, for a will."

"No, because she is better."

"Hasn't he work enough now, the head clerk, since he has taken Germain's place also?"

"Speaking of Germain, here is another strange thing.'"

"What is it?"

"In order to have him set at liberty, the governor has declared it was he himself who made
an error in his accounts, and that he had found the money which he accused Germain of stealing."

"I do not find this strange, but just; you recollect I always said that Germain was incapable
of theft."

"It must, nevertheless, have been very disagreeable for him to be arrested and confined as
a thief."

"If I were in his place I would sue Jacques Ferrand for damages."

"The least he could do would be to reinstate him as cashier, in order to prove that Germain
was not culpable."

"Yes, but perhaps Germain would not be willing."

"Is he still at the farm, where he went on coming out of prison, and from which he wrote us
to announce M. Ferrand's discontinuance of the suit?"

"Probably, for yesterday I went to the place where he directed us to go; they told me that
he was still in the country, and that I could write to him at Bouqueval, near Ecouen, at Madame
George's."

"Oh! a carriage!" said Chalamel, leaning over toward the window.

"Nothing but a hackney-coach."

"And who gets out?"

"Stop a moment! Oh! a black-gown!"

"A woman! a woman! Oh! let us see."

"This gutter-jumper is indecently sensitive at his age; he only thinks of women. We shall have
to chain him up, or he will carry off the Sabines from the streets; for, as said the Swan of
Cambray in his Treatise on Education for the Dauphin,

  "'Of Gutter-jumper have a care,
    Who assaults the lovely fair.'"

"I demand the head of Chalamel!"

"M. Chalamel, you said a black robe, I thought."

"It is the cure, goose! Let him be an example for you."

"The cure of the parish? The good pastor?"

"Himself."

"He is a worthy man!"

"He is no Jesuit, not he."

"I think not; and if all the priests were like him everybody would be devout."

"Silence! some one opens the door."

And all the clerks, bending over their desks, began to scratch away with apparent industry,
making their pens pass rapidly over the paper. The pale face of this priest was at once mild
and grave, intelligent and venerable, its expression full of benevolence and serenity. A small
black cap concealed his tonsure, and his long gray hair floated on the collar of his maroon-colored
coat. Let us add that, from his simple credulity, this excellent priest had always been, and
was still, the dupe of Jacques Ferrand's deep and cunning hypocrisy.

"Your worthy master is in his cabinet, my son?" asked the cure.

"Yes, M. l'Abbe," said Chalamel, rising respectfully. And he opened for the priest the door
leading into a room adjoining the office.

Hearing some one speaking with vehemence in the cabinet of the notary, the abbe, not wishing
to hear, walked rapidly toward the door, and knocked.

"Come in," said a voice with an Italian accent, and the priest found himself face to face with
Jacques Ferrand and Polidori.

It would seem that the clerks were not wrong when they prophesied the death of their employer
at no distant day. Since the flight of Cecily, the notary was hardly to be recognized. Although
his visage was of a frightful thinness, and of a cadaverous hue, a hectic flush colored his
hollow cheeks; a nervous shivering, except when interrupted by convulsive spasms, agitated
his frame continually; his bony hands were dry and burning; his large green spectacles concealed
his bloodshot eyes, which sparkled with the fire of a consuming fever; in a word, this sinister
face betrayed the ravages of a rapid consumption. The physiognomy of Polidori formed a contrast
with that of the notary; nothing could be more bitterly, more coldly ironical than the expression
of this scoundrel; a forest of fiery red hair, interspersed with some silvered locks, crowned
his high and wrinkled forehead; his penetrating eyes, green as the ocean wave, were close to
his hooked nose; his mouth, with its thin lips, expressed wickedness and sarcasm. Polidori,
completely dressed in black, was seated beside the desk of Jacques Ferrand. At the sight of
the priest they both arose.

"Well! how do you get on, my worthy M. Ferrand?" said the abbe, with solicitude; "are you a
little better?"

"I am always in the same state, M. l'Abbe; the fever does not leave me," answered the notary;
"the want of sleep is killing me. But the will of heaven be done!"

"See, M. l'Abbe," added Polidori, with emphasis, "what pious resignation! My poor friend is
always the same; he only finds a solace for his sufferings in doing good."

"I do not deserve these praises, have the goodness to dispense with them," said the notary,
dryly, with difficulty concealing his anger. "To the Lord alone belongs the appreciation of
good and evil; I am only a miserable sinner."

"We are all sinners," answered the abbe gently; "but we have not all the charity which distinguishes
you, my respected friend. There are very few who, like you, dispossess themselves of so much
of their earthly wealth to employ it during their lifetime in a manner so Christian-like. Do
you still persist in selling your business, in order to devote yourself more entirely to the
practice of religion?"

"Since yesterday, my business is sold, M. l'Abbe; some concessions have enabled me to realize
(a rare thing) the cash down: this sum, added to others, will enable me to found the institution
of which I have spoken, and of which I have definitively arranged the plan that I am about
to submit to you."

"Ah! my worthy friend," said the abbe, with deep and reverential admiration, "to do so much
good--so unostentatiously--and, I may say, so naturally! I repeat to you, people like you are
rare; they will receive their reward."

"It is true that very few persons unite, like Jacques Ferrand, riches to piety, intelligence
to charity," said Polidori, with an ironical smile which escaped the notice of the good abbe.

At this new and sarcastic eulogium the hand of the notary was clinched; he cast from under
his spectacles a look of deadly hatred on Polidori.

"You see, M. l'Abbe," the bosom friend of Jacques Ferrand hastened to say, "he has continually
these nervous spasms, and he will do nothing for them. He worries me, he is his own executioner,
my poor friend!"

At these words of Polidori, the notary shuddered still more convulsively, but he composed himself
again. A man less simple than the abbe would have remarked, during this conversation, and,
above all, during what is about to follow, the notary's constrained manner of speaking; for
it is hardly necessary to say that a will superior to his own, the will of Rudolph, in a word,
imposed on this man words and acts diametrically opposed to his true character. Thus sometimes,
pushed to extremities, the notary appeared reluctant to obey this all powerful and invisible
authority; but a look from Polidori put an end to his indecision. Then, constraining with a
sigh of rage his most violent feelings, Jacques Ferrand submitted to the yoke which he could
not break.

"Alas! M. l'Abbe," said Polidori, who seemed to take delight in torturing his victim, as is
said vulgarly, by pricks of a pin, "my poor friend neglects his health too much. Tell him to
be more careful of himself, if not for his own sake, for his friends', or, at least, for the
unfortunates of whom he is the hope and support."

"Enough! enough!" murmured the notary.

"No, it is not enough," said the priest, with emotion; "we cannot repeat to you too often that
you do not belong to yourself, and that it is wrong thus to neglect your health. In ten years
that I have known you, I have never seen you ill; but for a month past you are no longer recognizable.
I am so much the more struck with this alteration of your features, as I was for some time
without seeing you. Thus, at our first interview, I could not conceal my surprise; but the
change I have remarked in you for the last few days is much more serious: you sink every hour,
you give us much uneasiness. I implore you, my worthy friend, take care of your health."

"I am very sensible of your solicitude, M. l'Abbe; but I assure you that my condition is not
so alarming as you think."

"Since you are so obstinate," said Polidori, "I will tell everything to the abbe; he loves
you--he esteems you--he honors you much; how much the more will he honor you when he shall
know your new merits--when he shall know the true cause of your wasting away?"

"What is this?" asked the abbe.

"M. l'Abbe," said the notary, with impatience, "I begged you to come here to communicate to
you projects of high importance, and not to hear me ridiculously praised by my friend."

"You know, Jacques, that from me you must be resigned to here everything," said Polidori, looking
fixedly at the notary, who cast down his eyes, and remained silent. Polidori continued: "You
perhaps remarked, M. l'Abbe, that the first symptoms of his nervous complaint appeared a short
time after the abominable scandal which Louise Morel caused in this house."

The notary shuddered.

"You know of the crime of this unhappy girl, sir?" demanded the astonished priest; "I thought
you had arrived but a few days since at Paris?"

"Without doubt, M. l'Abbe; but Jacques has related everything to me, as his friend--as his
physician; for he attributes these nervous attacks almost entirely to the indignation which
the crime of Louise Morel caused him. This is nothing, as yet; my poor friend, alas! had new
trials to endure, which, you see, have ruined his health. An old servant, who for many years
was attached to him by the ties of gratitude--"

"Madame Seraphin?" said the cure, interrupting Polidori. "I have heard of the death of this
unfortunate, drowned by her own imprudence, and I comprehend the grief of M. Ferrand. It is
not easy to forget ten years of faithful services; such regrets do credit to the master as
well as to the servant."

"M. l'Abbe," said the notary, "I entreat you, do not speak of my virtues--you confuse me--it
is painful."

"And who will speak of them, then--will it be yourself?" answered Polidori affectionately;
"but you will be obliged to praise him still more, M. l'Abbe: you perhaps do not know who is
the servant that took the place of Louise Morel and Madame Seraphin. You do not know what he
has done for this poor Cecily, M. l'Abbe, for so she is named."

The notary started from his seat, his eyes sparkling under his spectacles, a burning red diffused
over his livid face.

"Hush! be silent!" he cried; "not a word more. I forbid it!"

"Come, come, calm yourself," said the abbe, smiling benevolently; "another good action to reveal?
As for myself, I strongly approve of the generous indiscretion of your friend. I did not know
this servant, for it was just after her arrival that my worthy friend, overwhelmed with business,
was obliged momentarily, to my great regret, to interrupt our relations."

"It was to conceal from you this new good action he meditated, M. l'Abbe; thus, although his
modesty revolts at the mention of it, he must hear me, and you shall know all," said Polidori,
smiling.

Jacques Ferrand was silent; he leaned on his desk, and concealed his face in his hands.

CHAPTER XIII.

THE BANK FOR THE POOR.

"Imagine then, M. l'Abbe," resumed Polidori, addressing the cure, but emphasizing, as it were,
each phrase by an ironical glance at Jacques Ferrand--"imagine that my friend found in his
new servant, who, as I have already told you, was called Cecily, the best qualities, great
modesty, angelic sweetness, and above all, much piety. This is not all; Jacques, you know,
owes to his long practice in business affairs an extreme penetration; he soon saw that this
young woman, for she was young and very pretty, M. l'Abbe--that this young and pretty woman
was not made for a servant, and that, to principles most virtuously austere, she added solid
accomplishments very diversified."

"Ah, indeed, this is strange," said the abbe, much interested. "I was entirely ignorant of
these circumstances; but what is the matter, my good M. Ferrand? You seem to be suffering."

"In truth," said the notary, wiping the cold sweat from his brow, "I have a slight headache,
but it will soon pass away."

Polidori shrugged his shoulders and smiled. "Observe, M. l'Abbe," he added, "that Jacques is
always thus when any one unveils his hidden charities; he is so hypocritical on the subject
of the good he does! Happily, I am here, and justice shall be done him. Let us return to Cecily.
In her turn she had soon found out the excellence of his heart, and, when he interrogated her
as to the past, she confessed to him that, a stranger, without resources, and reduced by the
misconduct of her husband to the most humble condition, she regarded it as a boon from heaven
that she had been enabled to enter the house of a man so venerable as M. Ferrand. At the sight
of so much misfortune, resignation, virtue, Jacques did not hesitate; he wrote to the native
country of this unfortunate, to ascertain the truth of her story: the answer confirmed it in
every particular; then, sure of not misplacing his benefactions, Jacques blessed Cecily as
a father, sent her back to her own country with a sum of money which will enable her to wait
for better days, and the chance of improving her condition. I will not add a word of praise
for Jacques; the facts are more eloquent than my words."

"Good, very good," cried the cure, much affected. "M. l'Abbe," said Jacques Ferrand, in a hollow
voice, "I do not wish to trespass upon your precious moments; speak no more of me, I implore
you, but of the project for which I have begged you to come here and favor me with your advice."

