America

Through the Spectacles of an Oriental Diplomat

[Note on text:  Italicized sections are capitalized.  A few obvious errors have been corrected.
Some footnotes have been added, and are clearly marked.]

Introduction:

While this book is by no means famous, it is a remarkable chance to look at America of 1914
through the eyes of an outsider.  Wu Tingfang shows evidence of having thought through many
issues of relevance to the United States, and while some of his thoughts are rather odd--such
as his suggestion that the title of President be replaced by the title of Emperor; and others
are unfortunately wrong--such as his hopes for peace, written on the eve of the First World
War; they are all well-considered and sometimes show remarkable insight into American culture.

Even so, it should be remarked that he makes some errors, including some misunderstandings
of American and Western ideas and an idealization of Chinese culture, and humanity in general,
in some points--while I do not wish to refute his claims about China, I would simply point
out that many of the things he praises have been seen differently by many outside observers,
just as Wu Tingfang sometimes looks critically at things in America which he does not fully
understand (and, unfortunately, he is sometimes all too correct)--in all these cases (on both
sides) some leeway must be given to account for mutual misunderstandings.  Still, his observations
allow us to see ourselves as others see us--and regardless of accuracy those observations are
useful, if only because they will allow us to better communicate.

The range of topics covered is also of particular interest.  Wu Tingfang wrote this book at
an interesting juncture in history--airplanes and motion pictures had recently been invented,
(and his expectations for both these inventions have proven correct), and while he did not
know it, a tremendous cultural shift was about to take place in the West due to the First World
War and other factors.  I will leave it to the reader to see which ideas have caught on and
which have not.  The topics include:

    Immigration; the Arms Race and changes in technology;
    one-time six year terms for the office of President;
    religion and/or ethics in the classroom; women's equality;
    fashion; violence in the theatre (violence on television);
    vegetarianism; and, cruelty to animals.

I will also note that a few passages seem satiric in nature, though I am not certain that it
isn't merely a clash of cultures.

                    Alan R. Light.  Birmingham, Alabama.  May, 1996.

AMERICA

Through the Spectacles of an Oriental Diplomat

by Wu Tingfang, LL.D.

  Late Chinese Minister to the United States of America, Spain, Peru,
  Mexico and Cuba; recently Minister of Foreign Affairs and Minister
  of Justice for the Provincial Government of the Republic of China, etc.

Preface

Of all nations in the world, America is the most interesting to the Chinese.  A handful of
people left England to explore this country: gradually their number increased, and, in course
of time, emigrants from other lands swelled the population.  They were governed by officials
from the home of the first settlers, but when it appeared to them that they were being treated
unjustly, they rebelled and declared war against their rulers, the strongest nation on the
face of the earth.  After seven years of strenuous, perilous, and bloody warfare, during which
thousands of lives were sacrificed on both sides, the younger race shook off the yoke of the
older, and England was compelled to recognize the independence of the American States.  Since
then, in the comparatively short space of one hundred and thirty years, those revolutionists
and their descendants, have not only made the commonwealth the richest in the world, but have
founded a nation whose word now carries weight with all the other great powers.

The territory at first occupied was not larger than one or two provinces of China, but by purchase,
and in other ways, the commonwealth has gradually grown till now it extends from the Atlantic
to the Pacific Ocean, from the north where ice is perpetual to the south where the sun is as
hot as in equatorial Singapore.  This young republic has already produced many men and women
who are distinguished in the fields of literature, science, art and invention.  There hosts
of men, who in their youth were as poor as church mice, have, by dint of perseverance and business
capacity, become multi-millionaires. There you may see the richest man in the world living
a simple and abstemious life, without pomp and ostentation, daily walking in the streets unattended
even by a servant.  Many of them have so much money that they do not know what to do with it.
Many foreign counts, dukes, and even princes have been captured by their wealthy and handsome
daughters, some of whom have borne sons who have become high officers of state in foreign lands.
There you find rich people who devote their time and wealth to charitable works, sometimes
endowing libraries not only in their own land, but all over the world; there you will find
lynching tolerated, or impossible of prevention; there one man may kill another, and by the
wonderful process of law escape the extreme penalty of death; there you meet the people who
are most favorably disposed toward the maintenance of peace, and who hold conferences and conventions
with that object in view almost every year; there an American multi-millionaire devotes a great
proportion of his time to the propaganda of peace, and at his own expense has built in a foreign
country a palatial building to be used as a tribunal of peace.[1]  Yet these people have waged
war on behalf of other nationalities who they thought were being unjustly treated and when
victorious they have not held on to the fruits of their victory without paying a reasonable
price.[2]  There the inhabitants are, as a rule, extremely patriotic, and in a recent foreign
war many gave up their businesses and professions and volunteered for service in the army;
one of her richest sons enlisted and equipped a whole regiment at his own expense, and took
command of it.  In that country all the citizens are heirs apparent to the throne, called the
White House.  A man may become the chief ruler for a few years, but after leaving the White
House he reverts to private citizenship; if he is a lawyer he may practise and appear before
a judge, whom he appointed while he was president.  There a woman may become a lawyer and plead
a case before a court of justice on behalf of a male client; there freedom of speech and criticism
are allowed to the extreme limit, and people are liable to be annoyed by slanders and libels
without much chance of obtaining satisfaction; there you will see women wearing "Merry Widow"
hats who are not widows but spinsters, or married women whose husbands are very much alive,
and the hats in many cases are as large as three feet in diameter;[3] there you may travel
by rail most comfortably on palace cars, and at night you may sleep on Pullman cars, to find
in the morning that a young lady has been sleeping in the berth above your bed.  The people
are most ingenious in that they can float a company and water the stock without using a drop
of fluid; there are bears and bulls in the Stock Exchange, but you do not see these animals
fight, although they roar and yell loudly enough.  It is certainly a most extraordinary country.
The people are wonderful and are most interesting and instructive to the Chinese.

Such a race should certainly be very interesting to study.  During my two missions to America
where I resided nearly eight years, repeated requests were made that I should write my observations
and impressions of America.  I did not feel justified in doing so for several reasons: first,
I could not find time for such a task amidst my official duties; secondly, although I had been
travelling through many sections of the country, and had come in contact officially and socially
with many classes of people, still there might be some features of the country and some traits
of the people which had escaped my attention; and thirdly, though I had seen much in America
to arouse my admiration, I felt that here and there, there was room for improvement, and to
be compelled to criticize people who had been generous, courteous, and kind was something I
did not wish to do. 

With major festivals celebrated the arrival of cattle fluid. Peru had the visit of the wise Humboldt,
and in Lima witnessed a startling phenomenon night have been heard clearly much thunder. At that
time the trees were planted in the Alameda de Acho.

As Spain and France made common cause against England and had just made disaster Trafalgar, two brigs
in Arica English attacked the Spanish frigate Astrea, causing heavy
damage and forcing her to seek shelter in the bay.

Trying to comply with a royal order of confiscation of Church property Avilés encountered serious
resistance, the prudent viceroy calmed stalling and sending queries and memorials to the Crown.
This was not the first time that the Viceroy appealed the case to allow time to time to free
themselves from commitments. In 1804 interesábase the city because the viceroy dictate certain
providence, but he, believing that the thing was not practicable
or that fell outside its powers, decided to consult the monarch.

The people, who knew, began to murmur without her veil, and at the
door of the palace appeared this lampoon:

Avilés!

Avilés! What do you do that the city does not see?

The Viceroy did not take to anger, and commanded to write below:

To give pleasure to have sent to Spain cravings for glasses.

Response to calm down because the neighbors saw her commitment was
subject to the king's decision.

Avilés devoted much of his time to religious practices.

The people painted with this statement.

In the prayer business and government is incompetent is.

In July 1806, handed over command to Abascal.

Elderly, ill and depressed mood, the recent death of his wife, wanted
to return Avilés Spain.

The ship that carried him arrived at Valparaiso, and a few days passed in this Viceroy port
devotee, as they called the picaresque Lima.

III

Armed with rope and without bothering to write obituaries previously
dismissed, as is fashion since the invention of the nerves and romantic,
our man went to the pond Santa Beatriz, then amenisimo place and surrounded
by orange groves and other trees, which seemed but they were inviting
the neighbor to hang them and disrupt boredom and sorrows.

Roman began by reviewing the trees, and all but one was put on them. This was not high enough,
it did not offer to support consistency of fruit body a tagarote as he and the other was a
little thicket, beyond the somewhat stooped.

When hanged one should even take the consolation of having done to your taste given. At last tree
with the conditions found that the case required, and climbing on
it, tied the rope one of the most vigorous branches.

In these preparations reflected that, not to be interrupted and stop
half die and have perhaps to begin anew the task, it was best to wait
until the road was deserted.

Indian fishermen who came from Chorrillos, herbalists Groove, yanaconas Miraflores Maroons
San Juan and laborers on the estates, traded at that time a small distance the pond. There was
no way a man could kill in peace.

- Because it would Andromina that, to the best of the function, I dropped back a passer wrong!
If so, at last, has to be, nothing is lost by waiting a while, not
those who arrive late.

In these and other musings Hallab Román hidden between the thick branches
of the tree when saw arrive late step, and looking all around to face
suspicious, a man wrapped in a cloak full of patches.

This was a Spanish old man who lived on public charity, and who knew
in Lima Ovillitos nickname.

The nickname came from him who once went from house to house selling skeins of yarn, until
one day he decided to change jobs beggar sitting square.

Ovillitos after leading scrutinizing gaze to the walls and the road, he sat under the tree
which sheltered Roman, and taking a pair of scissors, ripped up two
of the infinite patches glazing barragán your filthy cloak.

What would be the Roman perched surprise to see that each patch released an ounce Ovillitos gold
and then buried them beneath the tree, after spending large space
lovingly contemplating time?

- What do suicide or eight quarters!
- Said Roman, cleverly down your tree just away the beggar -.

For God has come to see me take this opportunity and empuñémosla the only hair bald. Happy Tree
which such payment is!

And he began to work, and dug up just over a hundred pelucones, the
kind that under the Indiae et Rex looked Hispaniarum bust of Carlos
III and Carlos IV.

IV

Roman re-enable the store, and silverware trade is booming. Coached the days of hardship, put a
stop to the waste of his wife, whose character, by a miracle no doubt of Divine Providence, for whom
nothing is impossible, improved dramatically.

Ovillitos very sick to discover that her treasure had become a bird and flown closure. The unhappy
unaware that the money is not Carthusian monk who likes to be kept and mildew, and is a libertine
who can not do enough to go outdoors and from hand to hand. Beggars have been, at all times, that
his death has left a decent flow.

Roman died, and in the days of the republic, divided between his heirs
a fortune which was estimated at more than fifty thousand pesos.

One of the clauses of his will, we've read says for twenty years sum of thirty dollars per month
for Masses for the repose of the soul of Ovillitos.

THE MONK AND NUN OF CALLAO

I write this tradition to purge fat than a sin against the history and literature I made as a
boy.

Eighteen and was told pinic a writer and poet.

My dream was to hear, among the applause of a public good-natured, the discordant cries: the
author! The author! At that age whole mount antojábaseme cominillo oregano, and imaginábame with
four songs, badly sewn, and a dozen articulejos, basted worse, had put a pike in Flanders or
the other Jerez. Damned if not by lining individual consultation or if he knew from experience
that the old scrolls are breeding moths. You almost have dared to give me fifteen bay the most
knowledgeable in literary matters, when I was then one of those dunces that, eat bread instead
of acorns, Quixote put the legs of horses, calling book nonsensical
and without rhyme or reason.

Why? Because. This itself is a reason for standing bank, a ratio of unquestionable and capricious
brutality, I agree, but it is the reason we submit all the men in the absence of reason.

As ignorance is bold, let's have to write for the theater, and so
God forgive me if each of my spawn dramatic stab rogue was not the
proper sense of the muses and history.

Yet the public was goofy to call the scene the murderer poet and
that, instead of throwing the banks to the head, throw you spell crowns
of laurel.

Truth is that, by that time, I was not the only unfortunate that phenomenal productions discredited
the National Theatre, illustrated by good comedies and Segura Pardo. Consuela see that not all
the sackcloth bags.

One of my blunders Titulábase dramatic Rodil, four species of scorpion tails or actions and madman
on me, I was so stupid that I thought only my son's eighth wonder, but, bad sin!, consented to
a my friend, who did not have much of Solomon, he did put in print. Ink and what role do so
bad employees!

This was no drama or peeled pinion. Doggerel, lyricism silly, quirky dialogue, implausible
plot, sets brought to loop, impossible character, ownership of the language treated with kicks,
history arranged on a whim y. .. come on, it was a mess worthy of a magnificent rebuke. By way,
then, to protest against such parenting write this tradition, which,
at least, I shall save respects to the dictates of history and Rodil
shadow will not be entitled to sue for slander and give mine soplamocos
when both are given a slip in the valley of Jehoshaphat.

- Enough
preamble, and the fact! - Said the president of a court, interrupting
a lawyer who was with profiles and rodeos in an allegation of parentage
or paternity a sucker.

The lawyer said then run: - The fact is a fact boy: he who has deny that fact: this is the
fact.

I

With the battle of Ayacucho was enhancing the independence of South America. However, as a
morisqueta of Providence, Spain dominated for thirteen months in a half-mile area square. The
betrayal of Sergeant Moyano, in February 1824, had given to the realistic a fortified and well
manned and ammunition. The flag of Castilla flew in Callao, and it must be confessed that the
obstinacy of Rodil to defend this last stronghold of the monarchy
heroic bordered on recklessness.

Torrente historian, who calls the new Leonidas Rodil says did too much for his glory as a soldier.
Stevenson and even agree that Garcia Camba Rodil was cruel to barbarism, and that did not need
to maintain a desperate resistance to leave his reputation on straight and save the honor
of the Spanish arms.

No hope of relief forces arrived in the Peninsula, or in the country had a reaction in favor of
the colonial system, watching their comrades away days by day, decimated by scurvy and Republican
bullets, why not a moment fainted the untamed stubbornness of the
Castilian of Callao.

Much has been investigated the origin of the name Callao carrying the first port Republic, among
other versions, the most widespread is that it comes from the abundance is in your small pebble
beach called by the marine gravel or pebble.

As the years pass, take the figure of legendary proportions Rodil. More than man, It seems
to us to be great that embodied a will of iron in a steel body. Always vigil, theirs could never
know what the hours devoted to rest, and in the most unexpected moment was appearing as a ghost
on the ramparts and the barracks of his soldiers. Neither the relentless plague that swept
six thousand of the inhabitants of Callao what undertook a moment, then Rodil had used a condom
to become open sources arms.

Galician Rodil was born in Santa Maria del Trovo.

Student at the University of Santiago de Galicia, where he studied law, he left the cloisters
together with other schoolchildren, and in 1808 enlisted in the battalion of cadets literary. In April
1817 he arrived in Peru with the rank of first assistant of the regiment of the Prince. Soon promoted
to commander, was entrusted with the formation of the battalion Arequipa. Rodil was sworn in
recruits the lonely isle of the Scorpion, in front of Arica, where
he spent months disciplining, until Osorio took him to Chile.

Rodil attended there, sending the body that was created to battles of Talca, Cancharrayada and Maipú.

He
returned to Peru, taking an active part in the campaign against the Patriots, and was wounded
in the July 7, 1822 in fighting Pucarán.

To undertake political and military government of Callao, in 1824, Brigadier José Ramón Rodil, he
found himself decorated with crosses of Somorso, Espinosa de los
Monteros, San Payo, Tuman, Medina del Campo, Tarifa, Pamplona and
Cancharrayada, crosses testified battles he had been fortunate to
be among the winners.

Besieged by Callao Bolivar's troops, under General Salom, and the
patriot squadron, which had a 171 guns, was truly Herculean strength.

The history records for Rodil, decorous surrender January 23, 1826, when the Spanish commander
bravo, great dress uniform, with honors, left the castle to embark on the frigate Briton English war.
General La Mar, which was, to use a happy expression Inca Garcilaso, a gentleman gentleman
in all things, a tribute on this occasion just tribute to the courage and loyalty of Rodil,
which since 1 March 1824, which replaced to Casariego in command of Callao, until January
1826, almost no day passed without fighting.

Rodil was during the siege to deploy a wonderful activity, a ruse without limits and an undeniable
power to stifle plots. In just one day shot thirty-six conspirators act of cruelty that surrounded
him terrifying and even awed respect. One of those shot on that occasion was Frasquito Andalusian
popular boy for his jokes and witticisms, and Rodil was the scribe.

General Canterac (how sadly died in 1835 in Madrid to appease a mutiny in barracks) was commissioned
by Viceroy Conde de los Andes to celebrate the Treaty of Ayacucho, and It provided for the immediate
surrender of the castles. Upon receiving the letter Rodil or trade which he transcribed Canterac
capitulation article concerning Callao, exclaimed angrily: - Canario! She capitulates to let
them beat, and not me. "Abogaderas me?

While you have gunpowder and bullets, I do not dimes or diretes with those p. .. icaros insurgents.

II

During
the siege shot the Bellavista camp occupied by the Patriots, 9553 cannonballs, 454 bombs, 908
grenades and 34,713 dead of shrapnel, causing the besiegers the death of seven officers and one
hundred and two individuals of troops, and six officers and sixty two soldiers wounded. The
Patriots, meanwhile, walked no short answer, and launched on the strengths 20,327 cannonballs,
317 pumps and untold shrapnel.

At first the site had Rodil in castles a garrison of 2,800 soldiers and the day of capitulation had
only 376 men in the state to handle a gun. The rest had succumbed to the rigors of the plague
and the Republican bullets. On the streets of Callao, where spent a year earlier to 8,000 asylum
seekers or supporters of the king, barely reached 700 souls who witnessed
the outcome of the site. According to Garcia Camba, was 6,000 victims
scurvy and 767 of those who died fighting.

In the first months of
the site, expelled from the square Rodil 2,389 people. The Lima government
decided not to admit more expelled, and saw himself the fierce spectacle
of unhappy women who could pass Miranaves camp or return to the plaza,
because of both parties the refused to death. The unfortunate were
between two fires and suffer anguish impossible to tell by human pen.
Here's what he says on this point in Rodil curious manifesto he published
in Spain, without reaching certainly forgive a vicarious any sense
of humanity.

"I needed people to suspend reduce consumption they
could not recover, I ordered those who could not survive with its
provisions or industry saliesen of Callao. This order was carried
out with prudence, steadily and successfully. The news of the first
who emigrated was encouraging that lacked resources to live in the
population, and I downloaded four months of 2,389 useless mouths.
The enemy, to the fourteenth migration of them, they knew that their
conservation would damage me, and tempted to admit no effort inhuman.
I the decisively repelled. "

Needless to make findings on these lines
are in the consciousness of all spirits generous. If unworthy and
alien to the barbaric character of the Peruvians was compassionate
besieging the conduct of no less reprehensible find the trial's conduct
in history Governor of the square.
It possesses coal, oil, silver, gold, copper, and all the other mineral ores.  Nature seems,
indeed, to have provided almost everything that man needs.  The soil is rich; wheat and every
kind of fruit can be grown; but favorable as are these native conditions they could not be
turned to any great advantage without the skill and industry of enterprising men.  Many countries
in Africa and Asia possess equal advantages, but they are not equally prosperous. This leads
me to the consideration of another reason for America's growth.  The men who have migrated
to the United States have not been rich people.  They went there to make a living.  They were
prepared to work, their purpose was to improve their condition, and they were willing to undertake
any manual or mental labor to accomplish their object.  They were hardy and strong and could
bear a heavy strain. Their children inherited their good qualities, and so an American is generally
more hard working and enterprising than most of the people in Europe and elsewhere.

Another reason for America's success is the great freedom which each citizen enjoys.  Every
man considers himself the equal of every other, and a young man who is ambitious will not rest
until he reaches the top of his profession or trade.  Thousands of Americans who were once
very poor, have become millionaires or multi-millionaires.  Many of them had no college education,
they taught themselves, and some of them have become both literary and scholarly.  A college
or university education does not necessarily make a man learned; it only gives him the opportunity
to learn.  It is said that some college men have proven themselves to be quite ignorant, or
rather that they do not know so much as those who have been self-taught.  I do not in any way
wish to disparage a college education; no doubt men who have been trained in a university start
in life with better prospects and with a greater chance of success, but those men who have
not had such advantages have doubtless done much to make their country great and prosperous,
and they ought to be recognized as great men.

The general desire of the American people to travel abroad is one of their good traits.  People
who never leave their homes cannot know much.  A person may become well-informed by reading,
but his practical knowledge cannot be compared with that of a person who has travelled. We
Chinese are great sinners in this regard.  A Chinese maxim says, "It is dangerous to ride on
horseback or to go on a voyage":  hence until very recently we had a horror of going abroad.
A person who remains all his life in his own town is generally narrow-minded, self-opinioned,
and selfish.  The American people are free from these faults.  It is not only the rich and
the well-to-do who visit foreign countries, but tradesmen and workmen when they have saved
a little money also often cross the Atlantic.  Some years ago a Senator in Washington told
me that he crossed the Atlantic Ocean every summer and spent several months in Europe, and
that the next trip would be his twenty-eighth voyage.  I found, however, that he had never
gone beyond Europe.  I ventured to suggest that he should extend his next annual journey a
little farther and visit Japan, China, and other places in the Far East which I felt sure he
would find both interesting and instructive.  I have travelled through many countries in Europe
and South America, and wherever I have gone and at whatever hotel I have put up, I have always
found some Americans, and on many occasions I have met friends and acquaintances whom I had
known in Washington or New York.  But it is not only the men who go abroad; in many cases ladies
also travel by themselves.  On several occasions lady friends from Washington, Philadelphia,
and New York have visited me in Peking. This is one of the Americans' strong points.  Is it
not wiser and much more useful to disburse a few hundred dollars or so in travelling and gaining
knowledge, coming in contact with other peoples and enlarging the mind, than to spend large
sums of money in gaudy dresses, precious stones, trinkets, and other luxuries?

In a large country like America where a considerable portion of the land still remains practically
uncultivated or undeveloped, hardy, industrious, and patient workmen are a necessity.  But
the almost unchecked influx of immigrants who are not desirable citizens cannot but harm the
country.  In these days of international trade it is right that ingress and egress from one
country to another should be unhampered, but persons who have committed crimes at home, or
who are ignorant and illiterate, cannot become desirable citizens anywhere. They should be
barred out of the United States of America.  It is well known that foreigners take part in
the municipal and federal affairs of the country as soon as they become citizens.  Now if such
persons really worked for the good of their adopted country, there could be no objection to
this, but it is no secret that many have no such motives. That being so, it is a question whether
steps should not be taken to limit their freedom.  On the other hand, as many farms suffer
from lack of workmen, people from whatever country who are industrious, patient, and persevering
ought to be admitted as laborers.  They would be a great boon to the nation.  The fear of competition
by cheap labor is causeless; regulations might be drawn up for the control of these foreign
laborers, and on their arrival they could be drafted to those places where their services might
be most urgently needed.  So long as honest and steady workmen are excluded for no reason other
than that they are Asiatics, while white men are indiscriminately admitted, I fear that the
prosperity of the country cannot be considered permanent, for agriculture is the backbone of
stable wealth.  Yet at present it is the country's wealth which is one of the important factors
of America's greatness.  In the United States there are thousands of individuals whose fortunes
are counted by seven or eight figures in gold dollars. And much of this money has been used
to build railways, or to develop manufactories and other useful industries.  The country has
grown great through useful work, and not on account of the army and navy.  In 1881 America's
army numbered only 26,622 men, and her navy consisted of only 24 iron-clads, 2 torpedo-boats,
and 25 tugs, but in 1910 the peace strength of her army was 96,628 and the navy boasted 33
battleships and 120 armored cruisers of different sizes.

Within the last few years it has been the policy of many nations to increase the army and to
build as many Dreadnaughts and super-dreadnaughts as possible.  Many statesmen have been infected
by this Dreadnaught fever.  Their policy seems to be based on the idea that the safety of a
nation depends on the number of its battleships. Even peaceful and moderate men are carried
away by this hobby, and support it.  It is forgotten that great changes have taken place during
the last twenty or thirty years; that a nation can now be attacked by means quite beyond the
reach of Dreadnaughts.  The enormous sums spent on these frightful monsters, if applied to
more worthy objects, would have a greater effect in preserving the nations' heritages than
anything these monstrosities can do.

The nation which has a large army and a strong navy may be called powerful, but it cannot be
considered great without other good requisites.  I consider a nation as great when she is peacefully,
justly, and humanely governed, and when she possesses a large number of benevolent and good
men who have a voice in the administration.  The greater the number of good men that a nation
possesses the greater she becomes.  America is known to have a large number of such men and
women, men and women who devote their time and money to preaching peace among the nations.
Mr. Andrew Carnegie is worth a hundred Dreadnaughts.  He and others like him are the chief
factors in safeguarding the interests and welfare of America.  The territory of the United
States is separated from Europe and other countries by vast oceans; so that it would be difficult,
if not impossible, for a foe to successfully attack any portion of that country.  But who wishes
to attack her?  She has scarcely an enemy.  No country is invaded by another without cause,
and as the United States is in friendly relations with all the Powers, there is no reason to
fear foreign invasion.  Even should a foreign power successfully attack her and usurp a portion
of her territories, a supposition which is most improbable, would the enemy be able to hold
what he seized?  History shows that no conquered country has ever been successfully and permanently
kept without the people's consent, and there is not the least chance that the Americans will
ever consent to the rule of a foreign government.

It is to be hoped that the United States will not follow the example of other nations and unduly
increase her armaments, but that she will take the lead in the universal peace movement and
show the world that a great power can exist and maintain her position without force of arms.
I am aware that general disarmament is not popular among statesmen, that it has been denounced
by an eminent authority as a "will-o'-the wisp", that arbitration has been styled a "Jack-o'-lantern",
but this is not the first time a good and workable scheme has been branded with opprobrious
names.  The abolition of slavery was at one time considered to be an insane man's dream; now
all people believe in it.  Will the twentieth century witness the collapse of our present civilization?

Why are the world's armaments constantly increasing?  To my mind it is due to two causes, one
of which is mistrust.  One nation begins to build Dreadnaughts, another does the same through
fear and mistrust. The second cause is that it is the fashion of some nations to follow the
example of others that they may preserve their position as great naval powers.  But it is unnecessary
for the United States to show such mistrust or to follow such fashion.  She should rather,
as becomes a great and powerful nation, take an independent course of her own.  If she sets
the example other nations in due time will follow her.  The peace of the world will be more
surely guarded, and America will win the approbation, the respect, and the gratitude of all
peace-loving people.

Chapter 3.  American Government

Democratic principles were enunciated by Chinese philosophers as long ago as 4,500 years, and
from time to time various emperors and statesmen have endeavored to apply them to the government
of China, but these principles in all their minute details have been exemplified only by the
wisdom of the statesmen in the West.  In the United States they are in full swing.  As China
has now become a Republic, not in name only but in fact, it will be well for her statesmen
and politicians to examine the American constitution, and to study its workings.  To do this
at close range it will be necessary for the student to visit Washington, the Capital of the
United States of America.  Here he will find the President, or the chief of the nation.  With
the co-operation of his Cabinet and a large staff of assistants, the President administers
the affairs of the Federal Government.  He may be a new man and have had no previous training
in diplomacy, and little administrative experience, but in all probability he is a man of resource
and adaptability, who has mastered every detail of his high office.  All important matters
are referred to him, so that his daily work taxes his whole strength and energy.  Another part
of his function is to see the Congressmen, Senators, or Representatives, and others who call
to see him on business, and this takes up a great part of his time.  In fact, he is expected
to be, and generally is, 'Suaviter in modo, fortiter in re'.

In Washington the National Congress, which is composed of the Senate and of the House of Representatives,
holds its sittings in the Capitol, and passes bills subject to the approval of the President.
If he signs a bill it becomes law, and binds the nation.  The basic principle of democracy
is the sovereignty of the people, but as the people cannot of themselves govern the country,
they must delegate their power to agents who act for them.  Thus they elect the Chief Magistrate
to govern the country, and legislators to make the laws.  The powers given to these agents
are irrevocable during their respective terms of office.  The electors are absolutely bound
by their actions.  Whatever laws Congress may pass, the people must strictly obey; thus the
servants of the people really become their masters.  There is no fear, however, that their
masters pro tempore will betray their trust, as any neglect of duty on their part, or disregard
of the wishes of their constituents, would most likely destroy their chances of re-election.

According to the terms of the Constitution, the senators and representatives must be residents
of the states for which they are chosen.  This is an excellent provision, insuring that the
people's delegates possess local knowledge and know how to safeguard the interests and welfare
of the states which sent them to Washington.  On the other hand, as each state, irrespective
of its size, is entitled to elect only two Senators, and to send only a limited number of Representatives
to the House, proportionally to its population, unfortunately it frequently happens that eminent,
capable, and well-known public men, of large experience, are deprived of an opportunity to
serve their country.  In England, and in some other lands, the electors may choose as their
representative a resident of any city, borough, or county as they please, and it only occasionally
happens that the member of Parliament actually lives in the district which he represents. 
Is it advisable to adopt a similar system in the United States?  It could not be done without
amending the Constitution, and this would not be easy; but every nation, as well as each individual,
should be prepared, at all times, to receive fresh light, and be willing to change old customs
to suit new conditions, and so I make the suggestion.

The fixing of four years as the term of office for the President was an excellent idea, intended
no doubt to prevent an unpopular or bad President from remaining too long in power.  It is,
however, gradually dawning on the minds of intelligent people that this limited term, though
excellent in theory, is very inconvenient in practice.  However intelligent and capable a new
President may be, several months must elapse before he can thoroughly understand all the details
incidental to his exalted position, involving, in addition to unavoidable social functions,
the daily reception of callers, and many other multifarious duties.  By the time he has become
familiar with these matters, and the work of the office is running smoothly, half of his term
has gone; and should he aspire to a second term, which is quite natural, he must devote a great
deal of time and attention to electioneering.  Four years is plainly too short a period to
give any President a chance to do justice either to himself or to the nation which entrusted
him with his heavy responsibilities.  Presidential elections are national necessities, but
the less frequently they occur the better for the general welfare of the country.  Those who
have been in the United States during campaign years, and have seen the complicated working
of the political machinery, and all its serious consequences, will, I feel convinced, agree
with what I say.  During the greater part of the year in which a President has to be elected
the entire nation is absorbed in the event, all the people, both high and low, being more or
less keenly interested in the issue, and the preparations leading up to it.  They seem to put
everything else in the shade, and to give more attention to this than to anything else.  Politicians
and officials who have a personal interest in the result, will devote their whole time and
energy to the work.  Others who are less active, still, directly or indirectly, take their
share in the electioneering.  Campaign funds have to be raised and large sums of money are
disbursed in many directions.  All this sadly interrupts business; it not only takes many business
men from their more legitimate duties, but it prevents merchants and large corporations from
embarking in new enterprises, and so incidentally limits the demand for labor.  In short, the
whole nation is practically hurled into a state of bustle and excitement, and the general trade
of the country is seriously affected.  A young man in Washington, who was engaged to be married,
once told me that he was too busy to think of marriage until the election was over.

If the French system were followed, and the President were elected by a majority of the combined
votes of the Senate and the House of Representatives, the inconveniences, the excitements and
expense above enumerated might be avoided, but I think the people of America would rather endure
these evils than be deprived of the pleasure of electing their President themselves. Castellar ordered that carry images of the Cathedral of Our Lady of the Rosary, Santo Domingo
and Santa Rosa in solemn procession, which traversed many streets and richly decorated where
there were altars and arches of great cost. A novena made himself rich, paying for his own
pocket the devout virreina Dona Teresa Maria Arias de Saavedra as expenses great parties.

The
viceroy ordered printed and distributed among the miners of Peru
written instruction the author of the new method.

Everywhere was the subject of lengthy trials that proved wrong, and did see that the profits
were so small and even dubious, not worth it. The viceroy felt somewhat snubbed his pride with
this result, and Don Juan del Corro not give up, attributing his misfortune to scams and envious
enemies. The Castellar, together with all officials and notable people of Lima, witnessed
the Finally, a trial and was convinced that the advantages were nil, and dreamed profits the new
system that so many had hallucinated, but was memory - it laughable by the way - the enthusiasm
and parties with which it was received.

His intransigence with entrenched abuses attracted him very powerful
enemies, who spent their Savings influx record everything and to unhinge
the viceroy in the mind of the sovereign.

On July 7, 1678, when he was in Lima a procession of rogation as a result a terrible earthquake
in the last month left the city almost in ruins, was Count of Castellar a royal order of Charles
II in which he intimated the immediate delivery control of the proud and arbitrary Archbishop
Don Melchor Linan y Cisneros. This held him to a narrow view of residence, and for he had the
meanness to keep, for about two-year exile in Paita.

When in 1681 replaced the excellent Duke of Palata Archbishop Cisneros, Don Baltasar de la Cueva,
acquitted at trial, presented its Relationship of Command, dated in the little village Groove,
immediately Chorrillos, which is one of the most notable among the memories that we know of the viceroys.

The
Count of Castellar brought great wealth to Peru, most of which belonged
to the dowry his wife, Spanish lady who endeared himself greatly in
Lima, for his charity to the poor and the valuable gifts that favored
churches.

Was said of him that came rich command and went almost poor.

The arms of the cave were: Shield curtain, the first and second quarter with a gold baton gules,
the third in silver and a dragon or tap vert in the attitude of leaving
a cave with eight silver bordure gold blades.

In 1682, Charles II, the slight relief that so unjustly infer, appointed
him Minister of India.

Play this role Don Baltasar died in Spain, three or four years later.

III

The Count of Castellar used every evening to take a walk through the city, accompanied his secretary
and one of the captains of service, but before returning to the palace, and when the bells
rang the Angelus, entered the temple to pray devoutly Santo Domingo a rosary.

It was the night of February 10, 1678.

His Excellency was kneeling on the footstool that a convent was careful lego to enroll before
the altar of the Virgin.

A few feet away, and standing next to a seat were the secretary and captain of the guard.

Despite the semi-darkness of the temple, finally caught the attention of a lump demure behind
the columns of the vast nave.

Suddenly, the mysterious shadow went to tread cautiously to the footstool of the viceroy and
gouging at it with his left hand, threw him to the ground, while in his right hand shone a
dagger.

For this to the Viceroy, the captain was an agile and tough young
man, with all the haste was launched on the murderer and grabbed her
by the wrist.

The sacrilege was struggling desperately with the iron fist of the young, until, crowding the
monks and devotees who were in the church, managed to take the weapon.

The man was Juan de Villegas.

Fugitive from prison, a week ago who was in Lima, and since his return
did not stop of stalking in the temple to the Viceroy, seeking occasion
to kill him.

That night was assigned the case to Mayor Don Rodrigo de Odria, and
such was his activity that eight days later, Villegas body swaying
like a bunch on the gallows.

- Too bad rogue! - Said at the foot
of the scaffold to Sheriff Don Rodrigo -.

Is not it true, Güerequeque, who always maintained that this villain
had to finish high?

- With apologies to usiría - answered the questioned
- that the suit is of little height to the deserving Rascal.

MOTHER'S LOVE

CHRONICLE SEASON OF VICEROY "SILVER ARM"

(A Juana Manuela Gorriti.)

We deem it desirable to alter the names of the main characters in this tradition, sin venial sin
we have committed in The summoned and otherwise. Names mean little if careful not to distort
the historical truth, and well have guessed the reader why, and very powerful neighbors will
have had to de-baptism.

I

In August 1690 he made his entry into Lima the most excellent Don
Melchor Portocarrero Lasso de la Vega, Count of Monclova, Bush Commander
of the Order of Alcántara and twenty-third Viceroy of Peru by His
Majesty Don Carlos II.

Besides his daughter Dona Josefa, and his family and servitude, He was accompanied from Mexico,
whose government was transferred to these realms, Spanish soldiers. Distinguish between them,
for their gallant and martial appearance, gift Fernando Vergara, hidalgo Extremadura, captain of gentlemen
spears, and we had to that among the beauties he had not stopped Mexican austere reputation
Benedictine monk. Brawler, gambler and lover of women to war, was more than difficult to do sit head,
and the viceroy, who professed paternal affection, was proposed in Lima to marry him for his
hand, to see if that was really dumb customs status.

Evangelina Zamora, in addition to her youth and beauty, had clothes
that made the game more lovely city of Kings.

His great-grandfather had been, after Jeronimo de Aliaga, Mayor Ribera, Martín de Alcántara
and Diego Maldonado Rico, one of the conquerors Pizarro most favored
by divisions in the valley of Rimac.

The emperor agreed the use of the Don, and some years after sending valuable present to the
crown hit him the mercy of a habit of Santiago. With a century back, rich and ennobled, our thought
conquistador who had no mission and this valley of tears, and in 1604 rolled the mat, bequeathing
of the estate, in rural and urban properties, a flow that was estimated then fifth of a million.

The
grandfather and the father of Evangelina accretion inheritance, and the young orphan was found
to age of twenty years, under the protection of a guardian and envied for their wealth.

Among the modest daughter of the Count of Monclova and affluent Lima was established shortly
the most cordial friendship. Evangelina had reason to be so often at the palace in partnership
with the captain of gentlemen, who by dint of gallant wasted no circumstances
to make his court to the maiden, which was effected without amorous
inclination to confess that Extremadura gentleman had managed to sprout
in his chest, listened with secret pleasure the marriage proposal
to Ferdinand.

The broker was the viceroy nothing less, and well-indoctrinated young could not infer snub to so
high a sponsor.

During the first five years of marriage, Captain Vergara forgot his old life dissipation. His wife
and children were all his happiness was, let's say, a husband exemplary.

But one fateful day the devil made Don Fernando accompany his wife to a family party, and that she
had a room where not only playing the classic malilla crowded, but that, around a table with green
baize, were gathered many devotees of culbículos. The passion of the game was just numb in the
soul of the master, and no wonder that in view of the dice awoke
with greater force.

Played, and so perverse fortune that night he lost twenty thousand dollars.

Since that time, the model husband completely changed his ways and returned to the feverish existence
of the player.

Mostrándosele luck increasingly rebellious, he had to undermine the finances his wife and children
to cope with losses and throw in that bottomless pit called for revenge.

Among his companions was a young vice, Marquis who favored dice with tenacity, and Don Fernando
took so crazy whim combat fortune. Many nights I had for dinner Evan's house and, after the
dinner, the two friends were locked in a room a shirtless, word on
the technique of the players has a nasty accuracy.

Decidedly, the player and the insane are the same entity. If something smaller, in my opinion,
the historical figure of Emperor Augustus is that, according to Suetonius,
after dinner played even and odd.

Evan was trying in vain to avert the cliff to rampant player.

Tears and tenderness, anger and reconciliation were in vain. The good woman has no other weapons
to spend on the heart of the man she loved.

One night the unhappy wife was already included in her bed when she was awakened Ferdinand asking
the wedding ring.

He was a brilliant crecidísimo value. Evangelina was startled; but her husband calmed her anxiety,
telling her that was only to satisfy the curiosity of friends who
doubted the merit of the precious jewel.

What had happened in the room where they were rivals of carpet? Don Fernando lost a large sum,
and no longer having pledge to play, he remembered the splendid ring his wife.

The misfortune is inexorable. The precious jewel few minutes later wearing the ring finger the
greedy Marquis.

Don Fernando shuddered with shame and remorse. Bye the Marquis, and Verger accompanied to the courtroom,
but on reaching it, turned his head to a screen that communicated Evan's room, and through the
glass violates sobbing on his knees before an image of Mary.

A horrible vertigo seized the spirit of Don Fernando, and as fast as the tiger lunged on the
marquis, and gave him three stabs in the back.

The hapless fled to the bedroom, and fell lifeless in front of the bed of Evan.

II

The Count de la Monclova, very young at the time, commanded a company at the Battle of Arras,
given in 1654. His courage drew him to the thick of the fight, and was removed from the field
almost dying. Restablecióse at last, but with loss of the right arm, it was necessary to amputate.
The silver was replaced with another, hence the nickname that came in Mexico Lima and was baptized.

Viceroy
silver arm, on whose coat of arms is reading this motto: Ave Maria
gratia plena, happened in the government of Peru to the illustrious
Don Melchor de Navarra and Roca.

"With equal prestige than its predecessor, but with fewer administrative skills - says Lorente -
pure customs, religious, conciliatory and moderate, the Count of
Monclova edified the people by its example, and the needy always found
him ready to give alms their salaries and income from home.

"

In the fifteen years and four months of the government arm of silver, neither period until
then or since was no viceroy, the country enjoyed perfect peace,
the administration was ordered, and magnificent houses built in Lima.

True that the Treasury did not walk flourishing, but for reasons extraneous to politics. The processions
and religious festivals then remembered, for its magnificence and luxury, the times of the Count
de Lemos. Portals, with eighty-five arches, whose factory was done with spending twenty-five thousand
dollars, the Council and the gallery of the palace were the work of that era.

In 1694 Lima was born in a monster with two heads and beautiful faces,
two hearts, four arms, two breasts together by cartilage.

From the waist down had little to phenomenal and the encyclopedic Lima Don Pedro de Peralta
wrote under the title Nature Diversions a curious book, which, while having an anatomical
description of the monster, insists to prove that he was endowed with two souls.

Carlos the Bewitched died in 1700, Felipe V, who succeeded him, rewarded the Count of Monclova
making it big in Spain.

Sick and tired octogenarian command, the Viceroy silver arm urged the court to to be replaced.
Without seeing achieved this desire, died on the count of Monclova on 22 September 1702, was buried
in the Cathedral, and his successor, the Marquis de Casteldos Rius, but failed to Lima in June
1707.

Doña Josefa, daughter of the Count of Monclova, continued to dwell in the palace after death the Viceroy,
but one night, and agreed with his confessor, Father Alonso Messiah, picked through a window and
took refuge in the nuns of Santa Catalina, professing with the habit
of Santa Rosa, whose monastery was at the factory.

In May 1710 moved Josefa Portocarrero Lazo de la Vega to the new convent, which was the first
abbess.

III

Four months after his imprisonment, the Royal Court sentencing to
death of Don Fernando Vergara.

This from the very beginning had declared that killing the Marquis, with premeditation, in a fit
of desperation ruined player. Faced with such a frank confession was not the highest court to enforce
the penalty.

Evangelina put into play all spring to free her husband from an infamous death, and in such
despair, came the day appointed for the punishment of the criminal.

Then the self-sacrificing Evangelina brave and decided to do, love
to name their children without such a sacrifice.

Dressed in mourning was made in the palace hall in moments and the Viceroy of Monclova in accordance
with the judges, and said: Don Fernando had murdered the Marquis protected by law, that she was adulterous,
and, surprised by her husband, fled from their wrath, just getting his accomplice's death
outraged husband.

The frequency of visits to the home of the Marquis of Evangeline, the ring of it as a perk
Love in the hand of the corpse, the wounds in the back, the fact of having been found the dead at
the foot of the bed of the lady, and other small details were sufficient grounds for the viceroy,
giving credit to the oracle, ordered the sentence suspended.

The trial judge became the prison to endorse the declaration Ferdinand of his wife. But the clerk
just finished reading when Vergara, seized a thousand found feelings, threw a hideous laugh.

The
poor fellow had gone mad!

A few years later, the wings of death hung over the bed of the noble chaste wife, and a austere
priest lavished on the dying the consolations of religion.

The four sons of kneel expecting the season Evangelina maternal blessing.

Then the devoted victim, forced by her confessor, revealed the terrible secret - the world forget
- they said - the name of the woman who gave you life, but would
have been unforgiving to you if your father had climbed the steps
of the scaffold.

God, who reads my glass conscience, know that before I lost my honor society because you do
not call it a day the children of the executed.

LUCAS Sacrilege

CHRONICLE SEASON OF VICEROY OF PERU VIGÉSIMONONO

I

Which had passed through the plaza of St. Augustine when eleven at night October 22, 1743, would
have been a lump on the cornice of the facade of the church, striving to enter it by a narrow skylight.
Great agility and balance tests had no doubt to make the climber to climb on the ledge, and the
Christian who had referred to would have to cross himself by holding the Evil or goblin at
least.

And do not forget that for those, time was of public voice and fame in certain nights, the plaza
of San Augustine was invaded by a procession of souls in purgatory with candle in hand. I did not take
off or put, but I suspect that with the republic and we have gas put the breath of the Holy Souls,
which are very Mohin and still on the site His Divine Majesty pleased them.

The churchyard was not then the great iron gate decorated today, and nightlife of the city police
had abandoned such, it was difficult to find Asaz round.

Good people of Lima were kept in house at ten in the evening after turning off the bluff of the
door, and the population was fully submerged in darkness, with great contentment of cats and
owls, the devotees of the property of others and given people a loving enterprise.

The prudent reader may not believe in goblins or demons crowned, and as is fashion in these days
of civilization, perhaps he does not believe in God, there is a suspected thief is inserted
through the skylight of the church. Think bad and you will succeed.

Indeed.

Our man with the aid of a rope swung down to the temple, and with resolute step went to the altar.

I
do not know, reader, if you've ever found at night in a vast temple, with no light bulbs that give
off some placed at the bottom of the effigies, and feeling the fateful flight and the cawing
of these birds nesting in the towers and domes. For myself I say nothing has occurred in my
mind an impression more somber and solemn time, and that So I have
to sacristanes and acolytes in the opinion, say no saints, but to
be men more livers of Christianity.

Me laugh the brave of Independence!

Our man came to the sanctuary, opened the recamarín, took out his handkerchief wrapped Custody
the divine Host, leaving on the altar and left the temple by the same skylight that had input.

Only
two days later, on the morning of Saturday 25, when it should be
the renewal of Form, came to discover the theft. Gone was the golden
sun, valued at more than forty thousand dollars, and whose rich pearls,
rubies, diamonds, sapphires, opals and emeralds were present of the
main families of Lima. Although the pedestal was also admirable as
gold v art work did not arouse the greed of the robber.

It is easy
to imagine the uproar that this desecration cause the devout people.
As regards the learned writer of the Journal of Lima, in Nos. 4 and
5 October 1791, was a procession of repentance, sermon on the text
of David: Exurge, Domine, et tuam causam Judica, constant prayers,
lay and sacristanes prison, and posters setting rewards for whistle
the thief. Theaters were closed and mourning was general when running
on undiscovered the offender, challenged the authority of the tremendous
spring ecclesiastical censures and read off candles.

For its part,
the Marquis de Villagarcía, viceroy of Peru, had filled his duty,
teaching all the MPLA in its discretion orders were to capture the
sacrilegious. The express to magistrates and other authorities of
the viceroyalty was followed relentlessly, until late November Lima
became a sheriff of the mayor of Huancavelica Jeronimo Solá, former
Minister of the Indies, with sheets in which he communicated to his
Excellency the thief was lodged in jail and their respective pair
of socks of Biscay. Well said saying that between bonnet and helmet
are things plume.

Bells took to flight, the theater turned to work,
the residents left the mourning and Lima gave feasts and rejoicing.

II

Limiting
ourselves to the plan we have followed in the traditions, come here
to tell a quick review historic-era command of His Excellency Don
José de Mendoza Caamaño y Sotomayor, Villagarcía Marquis of Monroy
and Cusano, Earl of Barrantes and Lord of Vista Alegre, Villanueva
vigésimonono Rubianes and viceroy of Peru by His Majesty Don Felipe
V, and that, age of sixty years, took over the government of these
kingdoms in January 4, 1736.

The Marquis de Villagarcía far resisted
accepting the Viceroyalty of Peru, and persuading one of the king's
ministers to not reject what many covet, said:

- Lord vueseñoría
put me at the feet of His Majesty, whom I serve as fair and law and
picture it to make myself accountable, I found that I should rather
live poor Viceroy die rich gentleman.

But within a few years the labor unions on the Pacific coast began to object to the competition
of Chinese laborers.  Soon afterward the Chinese Government, to its intense surprise, was informed
that the President of the United States had delegated a commission to come to Peking to solicit
an abrogation of the treaty clause to which reference has been made.  The Chinese Government
was naturally unwilling to abrogate a treaty which had been urged on her by the United States
with so much zeal, and which had so lately been entered upon on both sides with such high hopes.

It would seem reasonable to expect that in yielding so fully to the wishes of the United States
in this second negotiation the Chinese Government would not be called upon to make any further
concessions in the interests or at the demand of the labor unions on the Pacific coast, but
in this China was disappointed.  Within a period of less than ten years an urgent application
was made by the American Secretary of State for a new treaty amended so as to enable the Congress
of the United States to still further restrict the privileges of Chinese laborers who had come
to the United States.  And when the Chinese Government hesitated to consent to the withdrawal
of rights which the United States granted to the subjects of other Governments, Congress passed
the Scott Act of 1888 prohibiting any Chinese person from entering the United States except
Chinese officials, teachers, students, merchants or travellers for pleasure or curiosity and
forbidding also Chinese laborers in the United States, after having left, from returning thereto.
This, in the words of Hon. J. W. Foster, ex-Secretary of State and a distinguished international
lawyer, "was a deliberate violation of the Treaty of 1880 and was so declared by the Supreme
Court of the United States."  In order to save the Executive of the United States from embarrassment,
the Chinese Government, contrary to its own sense of justice, and of international comity,
for a third time yielded to the wishes of the United States, and concluded the amended treaty
of 1894 which gave Congress additional power of legislation respecting Chinese laborers.  By
Article I of this treaty it was agreed that for a term of ten years the coming of Chinese laborers
to the United States should be absolutely prohibited.  Article III distinctly provided that
"the provisions of this convention shall not affect the right at present enjoyed of Chinese
subjects, being officials, teachers, students, merchants, or travellers for curiosity or pleasure,
but not laborers, of coming to the United States and residing therein." Thus it is clear that
the prohibition affects only laborers, and not the other classes of Chinese.  For a few years
after the signing of this convention this was the view adopted and acted upon by the immigration
officials, but afterward they changed their attitude, and the foregoing Article has since been
interpreted to mean that only the above-mentioned five classes can be admitted into the United
States, and that all the other classes of Chinese, however respectable and honorable, must
be refused admission.  Will my readers believe that a Chinese banker, physician, lawyer, broker,
commercial agent, scholar or professor could all be barred out of the United States of America
under the provisions of this convention?  In the face of the plain language of the text it
seems too absurd and unreasonable to be contemplated, and yet it is a fact.

This convention was proclaimed in December, 1894.  According to its provisions, it was to remain
in force only for a period of ten years, but that if six months before the end of that period
neither Power should give notice of denunciation it should be extended for a similar period.
Such notice was, however, given by China to the United States and accordingly the convention
expired in December, 1904, and is now no longer in force.  No serious attempt has since been
made by the United States Government to negotiate a new treaty regarding Chinese laborers,
so the customs and immigration officials continue to prohibit Chinese laborers from coming
to America by virtue of the law passed by Congress.

The enforcement of the exclusion laws against Chinese in the Hawaiian and Philippine Islands
is still more inexcusable.  The complaint in America against the immigration of Chinese laborers
was that such immigration was detrimental to white labor, but in those Islands there has been
no such complaint; on the contrary the enforcement of the law against the Chinese in Hawaii
has been, and is, contrary to the unanimous wish of the local Government and the people.  Free
intercourse and immigration between those Islands and China have been maintained for centuries.
What is most objectionable and unfair is that the Chinese should be singled out for discrimination,
while all other Asiatics such as Japanese, Siamese, and Malays are allowed to enter America
and her colonies without restraint.  It is my belief that the gross injustice that has been
inflicted upon the Chinese people by the harsh working of the exclusion law is not known to
the large majority of the American people, for I am sure they would not allow the continuation
of such hardships to be suffered by those who are their sincere friends.  China does not wish
special treatment, she only asks that her people shall be treated in the same way as the citizens
or subjects of other countries.  Will the great American nation still refuse to consent to this?

To solve the problem of immigration in a manner that would be satisfactory to all parties is
not an easy task, as so many conflicting interests are involved.  But it is not impossible.
If persons interested in this question be really desirous of seeing it settled and are willing
to listen to reasonable proposals, I believe that a way may be found for its solution.  There
is good reason for my optimistic opinion.  Even the Labor Unions, unless I am mistaken, would
welcome an amicable settlement of this complicated question.  In 1902, while at Washington,
I was agreeably surprised to receive a deputation of the leaders of the Central Labor Union
of Binghamton, New York, inviting me to pay a visit there and to deliver an address.  As I
did not wish to disappoint them I accepted their invitation.  During my short stay there, I
was very cordially and warmly received, and most kindly treated not only by the local authorities
and inhabitants, but by the members of the Labor Union and the working men also.  I found that
the Union leaders and the working men were most reasonable, their platform being, as far as
I could learn, to have no cheap labor competition but not necessarily discrimination against
any race.  If the United States Government would appoint a commission composed of members representing
the Labor Unions, manufacturers and merchants, to treat with a similar commission nominated
by the Chinese Government, the whole question in all its bearings could be discussed, and I
feel certain that after free and candid exchange of views, the joint Commissioners would be
able to arrive at a scheme which would put at rest once for all the conflicting claims, and
settle the matter satisfactorily to both China and the United States.

When this disagreeable difference has been removed, the friendly relations between the two
Republics, cordial even while one was yet an Empire, will leave nothing to be desired and cannot
but help to largely affect the trade between the two countries and to contribute to the peace
of the Far East.

[1] I need hardly say that our students are also well treated in England, France, Germany,
Japan, and other countries in Europe, but I am dealing in this chapter with America.

Chapter 5.  American Education

Out of a total population of 91,972,266 in the United States there were, in 1910, 17,506,175
pupils enrolled.  Few nations can show such a high percentage of school students.  The total
number of teachers was 506,040.  Educational efficiency on such a scale can be maintained only
by a large expenditure of money, and from the statistics of education I find that the sum received
from tuition fees was $14,687,192 gold, from productive funds $11,592,113 gold, and from the
United States Government $4,607,298 gold, making a total of $70,667,865 gold.[1] I question
whether any other nation can produce such an excellent example in the cause of education.

In every state there are very many schools, both public and private. There are public schools
in every town, and even the smallest village has its school, while in some agricultural states,
such as Wyoming, where the population is very scattered, teachers are provided by the government
to teach in the farmers' homes wherever three or four children can be gathered together.  The
public schools are free and open to all, but in some towns in the Southern States special schools
are provided for the colored people.  Having such facilities for gaining knowledge, it naturally
follows that the Americans, as a whole, are an educated people.  By this I mean the native
American, not the recent immigrants and negroes, but even as regards the latter a reservation
should be made, for some of the negroes, such as Booker T. Washington and others, have become
eminent through their learning and educational work.

The distinguishing feature of the school system is that it is cheap and comprehensive.  In
the primary and high schools the boys and girls, whether they come from the wealthy or aristocratic
families, or from more straitened homes, are all studying together in the same class-room,
and it is known that a President sent his son to study in a public school.  There is, therefore,
no excuse for even the poorest man in America being an illiterate.  If he wishes he can obtain
a degree in a university without difficulty.  Many of the state universities admit the children
of citizens of the state free, while their tuition fees for outsiders are exceptionally low,
so that it is within the power of the man of the most moderate means to give his son a university
education.  Many of the college or university students, in order to enable them to go through
their courses of study, do outside jobs after their lecture hours, and perform manual, or even
menial work, during the vacations.  I frequently met such students in summer resorts acting
as hotel waiters and found them clean, attentive, and reliable.  During a visit to Harvard
University, President Eliot took me to see the dining-hall.  Many students were taking their
lunch at the time.  I noticed that the waiters were an unusually clean set of young men, and
upon inquiry was informed that they were students of the University, and that when a waiter
was wanted many students applied, as the poorer students were glad to avail themselves of the
opportunity to earn some money.

Honest labor, though menial, is not considered degrading, and no American of education and
refinement is above doing it.  In some of the states in the East, owing to the scarcity of
servants, families do their own cooking and other household work.  Some few years ago I was
on a visit to Ashburnham, Massachusetts, and was surprised to find that my hostess not only
did the cooking but also cleaned my room.  I was invited to a formal luncheon by a professor,
and to my astonishment his two daughters waited at the table.  This is not unlike what occurs
in some parts of China in the interior.  The members of families, although in good circumstances,
do their own household work.  In some towns, not far from Canton, wealthy farmers and country
gentlemen hire out their sons as menials, so that these youngsters, when they have grown up,
shall know the value of money and not squander the family wealth.  I cite a typical case of
a millionaire who had only one son.  In order to make him appreciate the worth of money he
took his boy to Canton, and allowed him to be hired out as an ordinary servant.  The boy was
ordered by his master to look after a certain part of the house, and also to take care of a
little garden.  One day he carelessly broke a valuable gold-fish jar much prized by the family.
His master naturally became enraged and reproached him for his negligence.  The young man coolly
told him that if he would come to his father's house he could replace the broken vessel by
making his own selection from his father's collection of gold-fish jars.  This irritated the
master, who thought that the lad was adding insult to injury.  However, ultimately, his master
was persuaded to go with him to his father's house, and to his great astonishment he found
there many gold-fish jars which were more precious than that which the lad had broken.  Household
work, however mean it may be, is not considered degrading in China, but the difference between
China and America is that in America the people are compelled to do it from necessity, while
in China it is resorted to as a matter of policy to make the young men realize the value of
money, and not spend it wastefully.

The curriculum prescribed in the schools covers a wide range of subjects, and the graduates
are well equipped to face the battle of life.  Not only are drawing, sketching and other fine
arts taught, but also carpentry and other trades.  I was once shown a fairly made box which
was the product of a very small boy.  I did not at first perceive the use of teaching a boy
to do such work in school, but I learned that its object was to instruct the pupil how to think
and arrange his materials systematically.

With the exception of those schools established by Christian societies, or endowed by religious
sects, all educational institutions, especially those established by the state authorities,
are secular.  Religion is not taught.  Neither the Bible nor any other religious work is used
in the schoolroom.  The presidents, professors, and tutors may be strict churchmen, or very
religious people, but, as a rule, they are not permitted to inculcate their religious views
on the students.  The minds of the young are most susceptible, and if no moral principles are
impressed upon them at school or college they are apt to go astray.  It should be remembered
that men of education without moral principles are like a ship without an anchor.  Ignorant
and illiterate people infringe the law because they do not know any better, and their acts
of depredation are clumsy and can be easily found out, but when men of education commit crimes
these are so skilfully planned and executed that it is difficult for the police to unravel
and detect them.  It has been known that frauds and forgeries perpetrated by such unscrupulous
persons were so cleverly designed that they bore the evidence of superior education, and almost
of genius.  The more a man is educated the more is it necessary, for the welfare of the state,
to instruct him how to make a proper use of his talents: Education is like a double-edged sword.
It may be turned to dangerous usages if it is not properly handled.

As there is no established church in the United States, and in view of the numberless different
sects, it is not advisable to permit any particular phase of religion to be taught.  But why
not consent to allow the cardinal principles of morality to be taught in every school? The
following may serve as examples:

   (1)  Honesty is the best policy.
   (2)  Honor thy father and thy mother.
   (3)  Universal brotherhood.
   (4)  Love of mankind.
   (5)  Charity to all.
   (6)  Purity in thought and action.
   (7)  Pure food makes a pure body.
   (8)  Happiness consists of health and a pure conscience.
   (9)  Live and let live.
  (10)  Respect a man for his virtues, not for his money or position.
  (11)  'Fiat justitia, ruat coelum' (Let justice be done,
          though the Heavens should fall).
  (12)  Bear no malice against anyone.
  (13)  Be equitable and just to all men.
  (14)  Liberty and freedom but not license.
  (15)  Do not unto others what ye would not that others should do unto
          you.

I have jotted down the above just as they occurred to me while writing. They can easily be
amplified, and be made the basis of an ethical instruction in all the schools.  In any case,
every nation should aim at the highest standard of morals.

Co-education in the United States is not so unpopular as in some other countries, and it is
increasing in favor.  In all the primary schools, and in most of the high schools, boys and
girls study in the same class-room, and girls are admitted as students even in some colleges
and universities.  This principle of admitting the fair sex to equal educational privileges
is slowly but surely being recognized everywhere.  In some universities the authorities have
gone half-way; lectures are given to the girl students in separate rooms, or separate buildings,
or halls, are provided for the girl students.  With regard to the teaching staff, in the primary
schools nearly all the teachers are women, and in the high schools their number is at least
half, if not more.  In some of the universities there are lady professors or tutors.  It goes
without saying that girls have the natural talent for learning everything that boys can learn.
The objections raised by the opponents of co-education seem to rest chiefly upon the danger
of the intellectual or physical overstrain of girls during adolescence, and upon the unequal
rate of development of boys and girls during the secondary school period.  It is further alleged
that in mixed schools the curriculum is so prescribed that the girls' course of study is more
or less adapted to that of the boys, with the result that it cannot have the artistic and domestic
character which is suitable for the majority of girls; but why should not the curriculum be
arranged in such a way as to suit both sexes?  Is it not good for both to learn the same subjects?
That which is good for a boy to learn is it not equally advisable for a girl to know, and vice
versa?  Will not such a policy create mutual sympathy between the sexes? The silk industry was ruined
the competition that made the French, one after another were closed mounted workshops for
over a century old that had sustained industrial supremacy Valencia, and Don Manuel, who despite
his effort was good business sense to keep stubbornly fighting with the outside world and suffered
huge losses died of a tantrum before that the ruin came to crown his desperate resistance.

Inherited approximately seventy thousand dollars in cash, genres and individual property Friar's
children, and as the eldest son remained with the manor house, pleased with his position and
willing to increase the inherited, Dona Manuela, to be rich, just thought-out their state of
shopkeeper.

For her, the society was divided into two classes: those who go on foot and spend carriage; those
at home with large yard wide gate and enter through narrow stairs or dark backroom. I wanted
to climb, jump from the class of outcasts devoted to work to the "decent people", and with
the rule and conciseness of the absolute mistress not support replication, her husband explained
the future plan of life. Since the dependent older Antonio Cuadros, was married to Teresa, the
maid, and for having some thought nest egg established, which would keep the gift shop and Eugene,
who wanted to end his life caught to it like glue. The transfer price already paid would gradually
Antonio, and they lifted the flight immediately to go to make a nest in a large house near the Market
a magnificent estate, with wide portal, large patio blocks deep, and on the top floor great
rooms; property that the deceased had acquired Fraile for little money, paying thundered a count usurious.

Everything
was as ordered by Dona Manuela, and this, a few days, remembered
as a dream six-year stay in the tent on the market and can be considered
happy limousine ride in the Alameda and having a servant to his orders
to send to recaditos new friends, wives and military judges, ladies
which, being rich, treated with a patronizing air.

The only thing sad was his greatness in the character of the husband. Poor Don Melchor! Purgábala
wealth as a crime, and his life of idle rentier and walking companion and ceremonies resultábale
hell.

Since morning I had to endorse his coat and hat, to be willing to accompany the lady, was heard
calling at all hours of awkward because in the closed visits mouth,
or if it was opened to release the naivety and openness to remember
their origin y. ..

Unbearable torment oh! Your not allowed Manolita never take off the gloves and even I wanted
to dine with them to go - as she said - accustomed to the use of people elegant. And the daily
walk on the Alameda ...! God, how embarrassment! She had commitment to engage great friends,
and did not go near his saloon without authority or person known to Melchor solemnly salute
him with a knee sombrerazo, flushing many times see the gesture of surprise that those who replied
to the reverence of an entity unknown. It's that mirasen as a rare bird was not in his character,
but had Manolita fear and angry that housed pinching their disobedience.

Poor Don Melchor! How expensive it was hard to be married to a rich and beautiful women! Bored
the treatment of some people who could not understand, his wife spoke only to give new torments,
and only felt happy when, as the nines, fled house, searching the
market to their old friends.

He looked great according to his new position. Manolita loved and did not want to tell the truth
about his character, but the wily Don Eugenio not worth pretending.

-
Look, boy, you fool us.

No, you're not happy ... though I swear. You have, as I, blood dealer, and get us out of this counter
and our customs, we kills.

Surely, now, being rich, getting up late and walking in a carriage, you remember envious of
the time that lowered your sweeping the shop at six o'clock and threw our a paragraph with
the maids who will purchase. I know what it's like .... Ah! That Manuela ...! That Manolita! The
other day he told me his brother. She has to kill you, and you're on way. You can not shoot with
a life .... New cage, dead bird.

And these prophecies funeral, which, quite frankly, to the Aragonese,
the unhappy espeluznaban Melchor, the meeting went slowly.

Don Melchor visibly languishing. His good humor was gone in June with the colors of his face,
a greasy yellow obesity swell his body, and finally, a year after leaving the store, died while
doctors know for sure the disease. It was something liver, heart or stomach; about it agreed not
doctors; the only thing was indisputable that fell languidly and without noise, as these birds
to whom the traitor loop space starts to lock them in a cage.

It was a dismal mourning of Dona Manuela. Hundreds Masses, funerals full orchestra, alms in
abundance, and tears and wailing that fortunately had the power to prevent its funny phrases
Dr. Don Rafael Pajares, who, as a famous physician, had been called in recent days of the illness
of her husband, raising the languor this and his desperate despair.

Dona Manuela knew it was not very successful presence in the first ex-boyfriend days of her widowhood.
But in the end it was his cousin, and was so fondly the fatherless Johnny, with such things
cheer the little boy knew that he could not go without uncle Rafael.

Who else murmured against such visits was Don Juan, brother austere, sullen and neat righteousness,
but his complaints were received so bitterly, that ended up vowing
never to put foot in that house.

It was the doctor who owned the land. Was so accommodating, they entertain the nephew did not hesitate
to shed their professional dignity, and the maids heard sounds in the guitar room and the voice
of Don Rafael singing the song from its heyday as a student.

First only visited the widow in the afternoon, then continued the interviews, leaving the house at
midnight, and finally came a day when it came out.

Don Eugenio and Don Juan were outraged, saying that he knew perfectly well Fraile his daughter,
and although the two had little affection for the doctor, experienced some satisfaction knowing
that the widow and married cousin just passed the limit set by law.

After three months of marriage had a daughter, Conchita, a year after a boy who They named Rafael,
and finally, the youngest, Amparo, last fruit of a love affair that became extinct after rapid
and intense flame.

The marriage was conducted shortly after a source of satisfaction for Don Juan, which although he
hated his sister was glad of his misfortunes, daughters of unpredictability.

Rafael's cousin, a lover of pleasure angry and forced to suppress their desires in the atmosphere
of sordid greed that had brought up, threw himself fearlessly to satiate their appetites to be owner
of the fortune of his wife. Contingency Dona Manuela loving owner made him all of the house,
and soon make their tyranny.

Selfish to the brutality, was wasteful for pleasure and ferocious
when it came to mean the needs of others.

Found ridiculous the aristocratic tastes of his wife, and removed a despot. He sold the carriage
and horses, and Dona Manuela, demanding that was shown on display with her first husband,
and gladly obeyed orders servile the second. Unaware that the man so miserly in spending of the
money threw home beyond, and covering with the veil of hypocrisy, led a life of skull, such
as he had dreamed in his youth.

The blindness of the wife lasted a few years. When he learned the whole truth, had a moment of anger
and courageous act of protest, as in giving her hand to Melchor, but it was too late to remedy the
evil.

The doctor had played hard, losing thousands of dollars; held dear by pure costly undertook
glitz and fun trips throughout Spain with bold fellow Bure.

Dona Manuela's fortune was almost destroyed. Her husband, loving moments of expansion, when she
felt more subject, Tell them started and had to incriminating signatures pay, on pain of seeing
their assets seized. To head to her husband - as she said - he returned to his former charges,
the fake show that there was a fortune; contracted, on the other
hand, debts and guided by the deceptive sense of honor of the people
who are ruined, Instead of selling farms and being launched, preferring
to tax their property with mortgages and lie in the arms of usury,
seeking overwhelming interest loans.

Fortunately, a number of diseases from Dr. dissolute life emerged in his worn body, and died
when he and his wife, if not hated, could be seen separate provided him for his infidelities and
detours.

Rafael cousin's death made Don Juan back to his sister's house and to deign to address in their
affairs. With his keen eye for the practical man, put order in the welter: sold farms, canceled
mortgages, paid with hard money lenders despite these, they wanted
to see run interest to devour the client, and finally one day he could
say to his sister:

- Look, girl, you have free and healthy you have
left, but I warn you that you are not rich.

You, at most, twenty thousand dollars, plus eight thousand who belong to Johnny, as the inheritance
his father.

Gone, then, the madness. Now a lot of great order and economy, so you can going. Above all,
count me in distress. If you were poor you tend the hand; but you have to eat, and I do not
like the wasteful shelter. No more berlinitas and other expenses
which it appears that you do not.

A fixed life, spending according to income, is decent and dignified. That swagger, this desire
to appear with four quarters what people call "rice and trap" is ridiculous ... Do you understand
it? supremely ridiculous.

Doña Manuela felt himself impressed by the advice of his brother,
and followed them for a long time scrupulously.

Devoted himself to raising their children, ie children from his second marriage, for poor Johnny
had always been treated with false affection, with a detour disguised as Dona Manuela wanted revenge
on the poor kid to have been owned by his late father.

That woman was incomprehensible.

The faithful and caring husband just appointed him as if the marriage had been a few days, and
instead of that skull that both did suffer after death had forged an ideal figure, and if not
of its virtues, spoke to all of his talent, painting him as a distinguished
scholar, whose science was unable to appreciate the world.

The poor son of Melchior, with his timid and gentle nature and his desire for love, was the
pariah of the house.

The doctor, seeing him always quiet, watching her mother with stupid worship stated that the child was
so gross as his father, and at best could serve the trade. And as the boy, for his part, he had
great affection and a certain fondness Eugenio Las Tres Rosas, which was where they had spent
the first years of his life, hence Johnny, at age thirteen, entered the shop as an apprentice
distinguished, with the advantage of eating and sleeping at home.

In contrast, children of Dr. Pajares enjoyed a childhood surrounded
by care.

The two daughters were up to fourteen years in a school and Rafaelito was dedicated to the study,
as Dona Manuela v wanted to make it a medical luminary like his father.

These predilections irritated Don Juan, who had felt a brotherly affection
for his first brother, tireless worker as he and a friend of savings.

In addition, Johnny was his godson. But silent sister was still watching the economic advice
and - in his words - no stretch his foot out of the sheet.

But there came a time when the girls have become among girls, while
keeping their relationships friendly with her former schoolmates,
and Dona Manuela felt the urge to show off of every mother who has
marriageable daughters.

Renewed their furniture, left the anonymous dressmakers, and his
desire not to walk on foot, if you did not saloon and brainstem as
in good times, bought ligerita elegant galley and took as nelet coachman's
son's nurse Amparo a barbaric, orchard, who called his condition is
not Miss tutear less and forget that was his foster brother.

- Raging
that stale! - Dona Manuela said, shocked to know the fury with which
his brother had welcomed such reforms -.

Do you think that all we have to spend life as miserable, with bread and onions and an old dress?

Don
Juan also spoke, and had to hear.

- Your mother is crazy - sometimes Juanito said at the door of the Three Roses -. If this still more
time, all will go begging. Ah, what a head ...! It seems impossible my sister! For her the main
thing is to pretend, and tomorrow the devil agreed.

The I say: "rice and trap ..." and later trap.

III

The first day of the year, at eight o'clock, Concha y Amparo had left the bed, strange diligence
on them, which usually did not rise till ten.

Clothing ligerita despite the season, flew happily in his room, which offered arousal disorder,
around the two small beds in immaculate white, in his wrinkled linens kept the heat on young
bodies and the perfume of health and life-breathing healthy meats and virginal.

Chirped cheerfully, like birds they attract, but their songs could not be more vulgar.

- Where are my boots?

- My middle ... I need one .... Have you hidden yourself?

- Oh, God ...! I have a broken link!

And so the dialogue loose exclamations, cries and protests, while the two youth, in jacket and
petticoat, showing every drop pink nakedness, were on one side to another, dazed by the warm and
heavy in the room closed.

Then they went to the toilet, a small room where the light from the window, after slipping on beveled
moon a large mirror, glass quebrábase in the blue or pink powder compacts and vials of essence.
The piece was not a model of curiosity and gave away the clutter of a house where no counsel.
Kept shell combs his spikes caught in tangles hair, many bottles were chipped, and the white
marble had formed clumps by the mass of drops of oil to the waste of powder.

The two girls dropped their hair long and waving like flags; sacudiéronlos making fall on the marble
in a shower of metal pins, then, what good sisters, ayudáronse each other in the difficult task
of combing a day of ceremony.

The moon clearly portrayed in their heads slightly bluish background of the two sisters, the
loose hair and dressed in white, like opera sopranos at the time of going crazy and sing the final
aria.

Their faces were no big deal, would have been insignificant but for the eyes, some Valencia real eyes
that they ate much of your face, torn, lighting, no background, with insolent curiosity sometimes
languid other, and surrounded by the eyecup faint blue aura of passion.

Most, Conchita, twenty-three, was more like her mother. Had the same stately, and she began to start in
the beginning of fat, which made her look older. At home he enjoyed a reputation for violent
temper, and to Dona Manuela treated her with some reservations to avoid his angry explosions,
but otherwise was seductive, with its freshness Rubens and meat to the arched lines delatábanse
every move under the white cloth.

A minor, Amparo, eighteen years; cute baby's head, mouth, funny, dimpled
chin and cheeks, a handful of curls on his forehead and eyes that
seemed to smile instead of looking all, revealing the immense happy
to be young and the call pretty. It was the scarf House, Miss stunned
to learn of all do not know anything that the street I could not see
a ridiculous figure without bursting into loud laughter, which had
in their tastes some very formal guy and claimed that he felt pleasure
in teasing men, the escaping every moment of living, to go to the
kitchen to chat with the maids, enjoy to be his amanuensis, just inserted
in the letters to the soldier boyfriend terrible atrocities, I was
laughing the whole week.

Profesábanse great affection the two sisters,
but this did not prevent sometimes wield Amparo mocking his character
from this shell and birth sacase angry impetuosity; conflicts always
ended by going small to find mom, crying, with a red cheek slap or
a pair of pinching arms. Sometimes armed themselves for war if one
is had white clothes of the other or if they had stolen items of its
exclusive membership; but a gust of authority passed through the mother,
was slapped, tears and tantrums, the maids laughing in the kitchen,
and half an hour all so happy: Shell on the balcony, Amparo ran through
the house singing like a lark, and Dona Manuela arrellanábase in his
chair with sovereign air just straight administer justice.

Both groups
offered a seductive looking in the dresser mirror, bare-chested, with
arms in the air and smelling meat cooled by a brave cold water washing.
  You may see people in the streets almost running to their
offices, at luncheon they do not masticate their food, they bolt it, and in less than ten minutes
are on their way back to their office again.  Everyone is urged on by this spirit of haste,
and you frequently hear of sudden deaths which doctors attribute to heart failure, or some
other malady, but which I suspect are caused by the continual restless hurry and worry.  People
who are so unnaturally eager to get rich naturally suffer for it.

It is the general belief that Americans do not live as long as Europeans.  They make money
easily and their expectations are high.  I have known many Americans who, in my opinion, were
wealthy people, but they themselves did not think so; in fact, they said they were poor. Once
I asked a gentleman, who was known to be worth half a million of gold dollars, whether it was
not time for him to retire.  He pooh-poohed the idea and said that he could not afford to give
up his work.  In reply to my inquiries he informed me that he would not call a man wealthy
unless he should be possessed of one or two millions of dollars.  With such extravagant ideas,
it is no wonder that Americans work so hard.  I grant that a man's mission in this world is
to attain happiness.  According to Webster, happiness is "that state of being which is attended
with enjoyment," but it is curious to observe what different notions people have as to what
happiness is.  I know an Englishman in China who by his skilful business management, combined
with good luck, has amassed immense wealth; in fact, he is considered the richest man in the
port where he resides.  He is a bachelor, over seventy years old, and leads a very simple life.
But he still goes to his office every day, and toils as if he had to work for a living. Being
told that he should discontinue his drudgery, as at his death he would have to leave his large
fortune to relatives who would probably squander it, he gave an answer which is characteristic
of the man.  "I love," he said, "accumulating dollars and bank notes, and my enjoyment is in
counting them; if my relatives who will inherit my fortune, take as much pleasure in spending
it as I have had in making it, they will be quite welcome to their joy." Not many people, I
fancy, will agree with the old bachelor's view of life.  I once suggested to a multi-millionaire
of New York that it was time for him to retire from active work, leaving his sons to carry
on his business.  He told me that he would be unhappy without work and that he enjoyed the
demands his business made on him each day.

Many a man's life has been shortened by his retiring from business.  It is the mind rather
than the body that lives, and apart from their business these men have no thoughts and therefore
no life.  A man's idea of happiness is greatly governed by his personal tastes, and is influenced
by his environment, his education and the climate.  The form which it is to assume may vary
with persons of different tastes and positions, but it should not be carried out for his own
benefit solely and it should not be injurious to his health or to his intellectual and spiritual
improvement, nor should it be detrimental to the interests of other people.

[1] "To call" in the sense of "to visit".--A. R. L., 1996.

Chapter 7.  American Freedom and Equality

When an Oriental, who, throughout his life, has lived in his own country where the will of
his Sovereign is supreme, and the personal liberty of the subject unknown, first sets foot
on the soil of the United States, he breathes an atmosphere unlike anything he has ever known,
and experiences curious sensations which are absolutely new. For the first time in his life
he feels that he can do whatever he pleases without restraint, and that he can talk freely
to people without fear.  When he takes up a newspaper and reads statements about different
persons in high positions which are not at all creditable to them, and learns that no serious
consequences happen to the writers, he is lost in wonderment.  After a little time he begins
to understand that this is the "land of the free and the home of the brave", and that in America
everybody is on an equality.  The President, the highest official in the United States, is
neither more nor less than a citizen; and should he, which is very unlikely, commit an offense,
or do anything in contravention of the law, he would be tried in a Court of Justice in the
same manner as the lowest and the poorest citizen. Naturally the new visitor thinks this the
happiest people on earth, and wishes that his own country could be governed as happily.  Until
that lucky day arrives he feels that he would rather stay in free America than return to his
native land.

One of the first lessons which is learned by the American child in school, and which is deeply
impressed on its mind by its teacher, is that according to the Constitution all persons are
born equal, and that no distinction is made between sections, classes, or sects.

No slaves, or persons under bonds, have been allowed in the United States since the abolition
of slavery by President Lincoln.  The moment a slave, or anyone in bonds, steps on the shores
of the United States he is free, and no one, not even his former master, can deprive him of
his liberty.  America also affords an asylum for oppressed people and for political offenders;
people who have been persecuted in their own land, on account of their religion, or for political
offenses, find a safe refuge in this country.  Every year large numbers of Jews, and other
foreigners, emigrate to America for the sake of enjoying religious freedom.  Perfect religious
liberty is guaranteed to everyone in the United States.  There is equal religious liberty in
England, but the King is compelled to belong to a particular section of the Christian Church,
whereas in the United States no restriction is placed on the religious belief of the President;
thus one President was a Baptist, another a Unitarian, and a third a Congregationalist; and,
if elected, a Jew, a Mohammedan, or a Confucianist could become the President.  Several Jews
have held high Federal offices; they have even been Cabinet Ministers.

So ingrained in the minds of the American people is this principle of liberty and freedom of
action that I do not believe they would resign it for any consideration whatsoever.  Once an
English Duke was asked whether he would accept the throne of China on the sole condition that
he must reside in the Palace of Peking, and act as the Chinese Emperors have always been accustomed
to act.  He replied that such an exalted position of power and responsibility would be very
great and tempting, but that he would on no account accept such an honor on such terms, as
it would practically make him a prisoner.  Though a subject under a monarchial form of government,
he would not forfeit his right of freedom of action; and much less would a democratic American
give up his birthright for any price.  I knew an eminent and learned Judge of the Supreme Court
in Washington, who used to say that he would never bend his knees to any human being, and that
to the Almighty God alone would he ever do homage.  He no doubt acted up to his principles,
but I much doubt if all Americans observe so lofty an ideal.  A young lover in proposing to
his sweetheart would not mind kneeling down to support his prayer.  I have seen penitent husbands
bending their knees to ask the forgiveness of their offended wives.  This, however, can be
explained by the fact that the act of kneeling is not, in such cases, a sign of inferiority,
but the act of one equal asking a favor from another; still it is the bending of the knee which
was so solemnly abjured by the learned Judge.

The dislike of distinction of classes which arises from the principle of equality is apparent
wherever you go in the States.  The railroad cars are not marked first, second, or third, as
they are in Europe.  It is true that there are Pullman cars, and palace cars, with superior
and superb accommodation, and for which the occupant has to pay an extra fare; but the outside
of the car simply bears the name "Pullman" without indicating its class, and anyone who is
willing to pay the fare may share its luxuries.  I should mention that in some of the Southern
states negroes are compelled to ride on separate cars.  On one occasion, arriving at the railroad
station in one of those states, I noticed there were two waiting-rooms, one labelled "For the
White", and the other "For the Colored".  The railway porter took my portmanteau to the room
for the white, but my conscience soon whispered I had come to the wrong place, as neither of
the two rooms was intended for people of my complexion.  The street-cars are more democratic;
there is no division of classes; all people, high or low, sit in the same car without distinction
of race, color or sex.  It is a common thing to see a workman, dressed in shabby clothes full
of dirt, sitting next to a millionaire or a fashionable lady gorgeously clothed.  Cabinet officers
and their wives do not think it beneath their dignity to sit beside a laborer, or a coolie,
as he is called in China.

Foreign Ministers and Ambassadors coming to Washington soon learn to follow these local customs.
In a European country they ride in coronated carriages, with two liverymen; but in Washington
they usually go about on foot, or travel by the street-cars.  I frequently saw the late Lord
Pauncefote, the celebrated British Ambassador to Washington, ride to the State Department in
the street-car.  My adoption of this democratic way of travelling during the time I was in
America was the cause of a complaint being made against me at Peking.  The complainants were
certain Chinese high officials who had had occasion to visit the States; one of them had had
a foreign education, and ought to have known better than to have joined in the accusation that
my unpretentious manner of living was not becoming the dignity of a representative of China.
They forgot that when in Rome you must do as the Romans do, and that to ride in a sumptuous
carriage, with uniformed footmen, is in America not only an unnecessary expense, but a habit
which, among such a democratic people as the Americans, would detract from, rather than add
to, one's dignity.  An envoy residing in a foreign country should be in touch with the people
among whom he is sojourning.  If he put on unnecessary airs, there will be a coldness and lack
of cordiality between him and the community; his sphere of usefulness will be curtailed, and
his knowledge of the people and their country limited.  Of course, in a European Capital, where
every diplomat drives in a carriage, I should follow the example of my colleagues.  But even
in England, I frequently met high statesmen, such, for example, as Lord Salisbury, walking
in the streets.  This unrestrained liberty and equality is remarkably conspicuous in the United
States; for instance, at the White House official receptions or balls in Washington, I have
seen ladies in ordinary dress, while on one occasion a woman appeared in the dress of a man.
This was Doctor Mary Walker.

In a democratic country, such as the United States, one would naturally suppose that the people
enjoyed a greater degree of freedom than is possible in monarchial countries.  But, so far
from this being so, in some respects, they appear to be in a worse position.  On my return
journey from South America, some years ago, our steamer had to stay for four hours outside
of New York harbor.  We had first to wait for the doctor to come on board to make his inspection
of all the passengers, then the Customs officials appeared and examined the luggage and boxes
of all the passengers, and then, last but not the least, we had to wait for the immigration
officers.  All this necessarily took time, and it was not until all these inspections were
completed that the steamer was allowed to enter the harbor, and to tie up alongside the dock.
And this occurred in the land of freedom and liberty!  I spoke to some of my American fellow
passengers about the inconvenience and delay, and though they all murmured they quietly submitted.
Customs and sanitary inspection should be so conducted as to cause as little delay as possible.
I have visited many countries in Europe, in South America, and in Asia, but I have never known
of a ship having to stay outside the harbor of the port of her destination for so long a time.

Take another case; some months since, I wished, in compliance with the request of a lady in
America, to send her a chow-dog.  A mutual friend was willing to take it to her, but, upon
making inquiries at the American Consulate as to the Customs regulations, he was informed that
it would be impossible for him to undertake the commission, as the Customs officers at San
Francisco, besides imposing a heavy duty on the dog, would keep the ship in quarantine because
the dog was on board.  I could scarcely believe this, but inquiries confirmed the truth of
my friend's statement.  Customs and immigration laws and sanitary regulations must, of course,
be observed, but they should be enforced in such a way as not to work hardship on the people.
Officers entrusted with the performance of such duties, while faithfully and conscientiously
performing their work, should yet exercise their power with discretion and tact.  They are
the servants of the people, and ought to look after their interests and convenience as well
as after the interests of the State.  I would be the last one to encourage smuggling, but would
the national interests really suffer if the Custom House officers were to be a little more
ready to accept a traveller's word, and if they were less ready to suspect everyone of making
false declarations when entering the country?  Smuggling must be repressed, but at the same
time is it not true that the more imports enter the country the better it is for the State
and for the people?

There are no peers in the United States, as the Government has no power to create them; and
although America is nominally a free country, yet if a foreign government should confer a decoration
on an American citizen for services rendered, he cannot accept it without the consent of Congress,
just as under a monarchy a subject must obtain his sovereign's permission to wear a foreign
decoration.  It is true that there are some such titled persons in America, but they are not
treated with any greater respect or distinction than other citizens; yet you frequently find
people in America who not only would not disdain, but are actually anxious, to receive decorations
from foreign governments. Once, at least, an American high official, just before leaving the
country to which he had been accredited, accepted, without permission, a decoration, knowing,
that if he had asked for the consent of Congress, he would not have been allowed to receive it.

It is human nature to love change and variety, and for every person to be designated "Mister"
is too tame and flat for the go-ahead Americans. Hence many of the people whom you meet daily
have some prefix to their names, such as General, Colonel, Major, President, Judge, etc.  You
will not be far wrong to call a man "Judge" when he is a lawyer; or "General" or "Colonel"
if he has served in the army; or "Admiral" or "Captain" if he has been in the navy.  Though
neither the Federal nor the State Government has power to confer titles, the magnates do so.
They see that dukes and other peers are created in Europe, and that the partners in the big,
wealthy firms over there, are called "merchant princes", and so to outdo them, they arrogate
to themselves a still higher title.  Hence there are railroad kings, copper kings, tobacco
kings, etc.  It is, however, manifestly improper and incongruous that the people should possess
a higher title than their President, who is the head of the nation.  To make it even, I would
suggest that the title "President" be changed to "Emperor", for the following reasons: First,
it would not only do away with the impropriety of the chief magistrate of the nation assuming
a name below that of some of his people, but it would place him on a level with the highest
ruler of any nation on the face of the earth. It is best to take the money to Mr. Morte and pray that invest on paper.
State. He is a guy too long. Guess the role that is going up and down. If he wants, the little capital
of you will be well placed, you charge your income all quarter, and it is easy to acquire five
worth ten soon. We are, So they go to see Don Ramón.

Fortunate mortal! Since then, his name seemed to fill the room, and the two women it lodged in
his memory be imagined as a powerful, all good, which ball the millions and enjoyed by rich
to poor.

- When are we going to see Don Ramón? - Was the question that the
two women were just entering Juanito at home.

And made a morning visit to Tonic had no job and her boyfriend could leave the Three Roses.
How exciting! In the Plaza de la Reina and his legs trembled Micaela, thinking in the wrinkled brown
paper tickets containing filthy, and that was even more to be confronted with the gentleman from
whom all tongues were born. They entered a magnificent courtyard, embellished by industry rather
than the art of architecture, in which imitated marble plaster and
plaster molding machine pretending handcrafted old.

In the first flight of stairs was the office of Don Ramón.

The lobby seemed to ministry, and only if the bank was lined with velvet space for which they
arrived. Customers waited with resignation the shift. Priests were mostly for Don Ramon, pious
person and friend by the hand to charity of the Church, it ranked as the banker of the clergy, and
his name reached the sacristy great prestige. The black robes, the discrete half-light filtering
through the curtains to balconies, ornaments fading third on a sweet
twilight, calm and unobtrusive that reigned throughout the house,
gave it a monastic atmosphere of deep peace, sweet and attractive.

Johnny and the two women, after an hour of waiting to see the entries and exits customers, who
were discreet air, as influenced by the atmosphere of seraphic calm were admitted to the presence
of the great man. They crossed the office, where half a dozen feathered poor devils bent, raising
his head to throw a glance Tonic quickly. Opening a black screen, entered the office, dark room papered
with shelves and large chrome green folders French saints, who seemed
groomed and scented to attend a dance.

There, after the minister table, on which everything was neatly arranged with trivial, showed
himself the famous banker. Tonic experienced a disappointment. Tell them imagined majestic,
imposing, and saw a man stunted, yellow, round-shouldered, with gray head and a mustache cut,
which seemed clerical detached from his face. He spoke rhythmically beating on one hand the
back of the other, and their brown eyes shining behind gold spectacles
were most notably the face, their expression extremely kind and attentive.

Ease of physiognomy immediately recognize him Juanito.

- Sit down you ... sit - he said in his calm voice, that marked big pauses between syllable
and syllable -.

What's up, chicken? What brings you here?

The clerk was flushed and he expressed himself with difficulty, impressed by the look the great
man.

Don Ramón noble modesty welcomed the expressions of confidence from her admirer, and seemed feelings
with the few words of Tonic and her friend begging deigned to accept their money.

- I'm too busy to take care of the affairs of others .... However, sufficient that come with
this young man, which I appreciate, so I decided to do something
for you .... You say, girl, that eight thousand reais?

Well, they buy tanks, is the best role. They are now ninety-eight, but will soon go up, I assure
you. Buy Cubas .... I do not claim anything, I'm like everyone else and I can be wrong, but
maybe ... perhaps within a year will double the little capital. Yes, sir, can you bend it.

And
he was grinning, slapping hands with happy expression, as if only
needs a simple nod to the two thousand pesetas to multiply in millions.

A

current of excitement seemed to involve the three visitors. The fever of gain dominated them
at night to talk business again reappear. Now, no longer Tonic was so insignificant at Don Ramon
and even thought he saw in him a certain aura of man of genius.

The brown paper containing the hardships and hopes of the women was on the table. There were
eight thousand. Ramon could do whatever he wanted. They relied on him like his father.

- Well, buy Cubas.

The chicken will go through here when you like, so that you know about the progress the little
capital.

And Don Ramon accompanied them to the screen, sheltering with loving
eyes of a father to his three customers.

The money was on his back, no receipt, no warranty, guarded by the spirit of unshakable confidence
that the respectable personality circuit banker charitable.

Leaving the three, hinted at a new customer, a man in jacket and cap, industrial, which had
left a second shop to fetch a word idol.

- Come up - the banker said cheerfully, without letting it your greeting -. His little capital
has increased by fifty percent. Have you already thirty thousand.

The man, pale with emotion, is contained so as not to jump into the
neck of Don Ramón and eat it with kisses.

- Thank you, thank you
very much!

Are you my father. And not to disturb the great man, he fled, trembling by the news, thinking of their
children and what would his wife.

New customers of Don Ramon crossed the office as shocked as the other.

He man was a saint! The same said those who were in the anteroom, little people, with blouse
morning coats worn ones and others, all men of faith, bringing their savings to the shrine honesty,
and whispered as they waited for the turn, becoming the language
of their virtues.

Two days earlier, Ramon, to take stock of the month, noting that
resulted in his favor five hundred pesetas, certainly from an error
in the collection, had gone to confess involuntary absence, giving
the priest the amount for the dole to the poor.

And the news spread by word of mouth, agrandábase, tears started coming to emotion. What that man!
Not only money but their own blood could be given with confidence.

Micaela and Tonic, to be on the street, heaved a sigh of satisfaction.

My God! What off weight is removed!

They hesitated a bit before turning their savings, but now felt a
sweet trust thinking they were up in the hands of a man he appointed
daily newspapers with the titles of "wealthy banker and philanthropist."

VIII

Corpus

candle, with its broad blue stripes and white, shading from the tall masts Plaza de la Virgen.

The
crowd, Sunday best, agitábase around rocks, admiring the floats again
traditional every year came to light: heavy hulks washed and shiny,
but with an air of antiquity, looking in their rear, which certificate
of baptism, date of construction: the seventeenth century.

Remember those huge factories of painted wood, with his spear like a pole ship and the wheels which
millstones, the float sacred idols or Indian symbolic wagons Guelphs and Ghibellines took their
fighting.

People magazine spent a curiosity not devoid of tenderness to the row of rocks, as if his presence
awakened memories.

There was the rock Valencia, huge blaze of gold, bright and shining from the platform to the hull
of the austere matron who symbolizes the glory of the city, and then erect pedestals on the patron
saints of the other rocks: San Vicente, with the index imperious affirming the unity of God, St.
Michael, with sword raised, angry, threatening the devil without
deciding to hit, the Fe, poor blind, offering the cup where the calm
baby annulment, the Eternal Father, with his beard of flax, looking
grim scowl to Adam and Eve ligerita clothes as if sensing the summer
without another safeguard of modesty that the skirt of leaves, the
Virgin, with the blue and white robe, her hair down, look at the sky
and hands on his chest, and finally, the grotesque, the bizarre, slapstick,
faithful imitation of sympathy with that in past ages were treated
things from hell, rock diableros; Ripening fruit topped with green
soap operas, with the red fork in his right hand and foot, poking
among garlands of flames and snakes, the deadly sins, horrible limp
covers with moth-eaten and Grenada, which frightened the youngsters
and made big laugh.

And all these wagons, funny legacies of piety of past generations, were admired by the crowd,
that enthusiasm with a purely South rejoiced at the party pm, when the mules were matched tufted
spear and wagons Dull moved the streets with rolling, lush guys went
with bare platforms firing a shower of confetti over the crowd.

As the morning progressed increased tingling around the rocks, which, seen from afar, stood out
as obstacles on the wave of heads. The first summer sun polished as mirrors of the wagons painted tables,
gilded masts, scattered a powder gold in the square, was the giant canopy caramel transparency,
and this picture Levantine strong light dulcificábase with white
tone of the crowd, dressed in bright colors and covered with the first
straw hats.

At noon, when increased competition was the Pajares left the cathedral,
devotional in hand and grip the string of pearl and gold.

Returning home after Mass, and upon arrival front of the audience saw people running, while hearing
the distant drumming.

- The Ride! The Ride! - Shouted the running down the street urchins of Knights. And Pajares
had to stop at the wall of onlookers crowded the passage of ride.

First came the bearers of the banners, with silk vestments bars Aragon and high brass crowns on
hair and Barbaza of stubble after them the cure City, the famous "chaplain of the rocks' encaparazonado
spirited horse rider in yellow the silk cloak down from the collar to the tail of the horse, and
teaching the clean tonsure white bonnet to greet the public with balconies. And still behind the
dansetes, squads disguised in filthy clothes rascals Turks and Catalans, Indians and Valencia,
sounding hoarse and starting tambourines dance steps, the flags of the guilds, glorious rags with
four centuries old, warriors of the revolutionary banners Menestralia sixteenth century, the
sacred legend, as confused as touching the flight into Egypt Sins capital, with outlandish costumes
and colorful spikes as jesters of the Middle Ages, and in front of them virtue, christened the
bizarre name of the Moma, the Magi, Riding performing wonders; heralds on horseback, on foot municipal
gardeners with large branches, floats triumphant, all mixed, costumes and gestures, as a grotesque
parade of Carnival and cheered by the bright twang of the flutes,
the beating of drums and martial parade of bands.

Behind, leading the procession, and move the public invitation to join the party, were in the
parade half-dozen local gentlemen in evening dress, lying on the
emblazoned cushions, carrying on the belly, Concejil emblem, the red
strap and greeting sombrerazo public with a protector.

- Back, girls!
- Dona Manuela said his daughters -.

Back brutes coming!

Brutes were those of the neck: a bunch of farmhands with blackened faces, burlap coats painted
furiously, and topped with grass, which brought up the rear, delivering lashes among the curious
who occupied the front row with their clubs on canvas, louder than
offensive.

Pajares the left who leave the parade with its roar of drums and flutes and continued its march
through the streets covered with thick layer of sand over the rocks.

When the food arrived home from Andresito Pajares. His parents sent him to make the offering
of all ages. It was known that the balcony was the Three Roses best of Market. In addition,
Mr. Frame had great pleasure in receiving their friends, and even
more fortunate now that the stockbroker had furnished to the satisfaction
of the tapestry, and vulgar brilliance own coffee or inn, its rooms,
once so dreary and dismantled.

Doña Manuela and girls enthusiastically accepted the offer.

Go if you would!

And the widow Pajares, who had spoken so badly of Teresa, her former maid, was now praised
it like a childhood friend.

A family of three went to the market direction.

Concha y Amparito attracted attention with their colorful dresses
and capotitas of Straw, who made his head look on an entire meadow
of flowers and moss.

Mom looked at them in the back, experiencing the proud satisfaction of an artist. His work was
that estate, and had to admit that the girls knew wear it. But oh, God! trembled at the thought
what that cost him and the terrible uneasiness for the future, always money as eternal nightmare,
embittering the existence, she had spent so much!

Juanito the left at the door of Las Tres Rosas, to go in search of his girlfriend, and they,
rising to the rooms of the Lords of Paintings, they found an coterie consists of all Friends of the
house, speculators and traders families removed, clumsily imitating
mannerisms and gestures that had been copied in the afternoon in the
Alameda, walking in carriages between the old aristocracy.

They talked about summer fashions, "as I was going to be ', while men formed a group around the
balconies, giving in eternal conversation turns around four percent of interior and mortgage
notes Cuba.

Cuadros's wife, who answered his friends with smiles and seemed very
concerned rabbit by sad thoughts and mysterious abalanzóse Dona Manuela,
greeting her with tight sonic hug and kisses.

He seemed desperate to find at last the means of salvation.

- We need to talk, Dona Manuela - whispered -. No, not now, then I'll tell everything. Oh, if you
only knew ...!

Meanwhile, girls in Pajares, those of Lopez's famous stockbroker and other girlfriends posesionábanse
the balconies, making birdhouses with their loud talk and laughter funny.

The square was a multicolored sea of ​​heads. The balconies were decorated with ancient tapestries
Solid colors, constantly vomiting new intersections groups in the
compact crowd, and birds nesting in the trees of the market that fled
before the granujería mounted in the branches, whistled and shouted
to those below, with the confidence that is in their own home.

The summer sun warmed the crowd, among whom he walked by the girls disheveled and flip-flops,
with the pitcher in the hip, hawking fresh water, and the guys went to arms Herculean and rolled
up with silk handkerchief on his head, holding the heavy pulse chilly
and giving shouts horchata and barley water.

They had already struck four. On the balconies abríanse like giant flowers, parasols brightly
colored, big fans Men swarmed with flapping bird, and down the crowd
stirred worries, bumping into serried ranks of chairs that fringed
the creek.

There was a roar at one end of the square, and was immediately answered by a general uproar.

- You are there ...!

Are already there!

And there was shoving, elbowing, head swirling, pushing all that was in front for see better.

In the distance, dwarfed by distance, appeared the first rock, around which, Lilliputian jockeys,
horses prance did the soldiers in charge of opening step. A merry jingle noise dominated the
square and the strong voices of postilion to suit the garden, shouting 'arre! Arre! "Driving with
a dozen rare mastery branches.

The rocks, one after another, were parading through the square, each producing a revolution. Trotting,
dragging the heavy hulks, dozens of mule fat shiny outputs of the blocks of the mills, with
their tails taped, their heads adorned with colorful tassels and
between the ears and waving plumes stiff.

Caught running their flange the servants of the millers, lightweight espadrille athletes, bare-chested
and with arms air, which the voice of "high!", heads hung, making a halt to spirited beasts. Hanging
from the rear of the wagons balanceábanse clusters of little boys,
that the child fell into the arena rocking, miraculously emerging
from the legs of horses.

On the platforms were those of the Commodity Exchange, traders of wheat, millers, and hearty people
DIN friend who, in shirt sleeves, buttoned with diamonds and thick gold chain in his waistcoat,
threw the balconies with the force of projectiles wet corsages cartridges and hard candies
such as bullets, with more starch than sugar.

Every rock spreading terror and joy at a time.

The movable arms firing battery vocal shrapnel covering the air of objects falling glasses broken,
and until the shades were crumbling under the hail of confetti.

In the balconies, the ladies cubríanse the face with her fan, fearful that the couple met that
such brutal riddled with gifts. Below were the brave ones, who for a bump more or less would not
show fear and insulting to the rocks when they exhausted the projectiles, until those were thrown
into the baskets empty head.

Every time dropped a cartridge or a bunch of people, eager thousand hands were raised, giving rise
to disputes for its possession.

Finally passed the last rock, the mischief, where people of thunder
was more egregious in their gifts and tenacious in providing profits
to the stores glass, and calm was restored in the square, beginning
to clear the crowd.

Frame home, ladies, tired of staying so long standing on the balconies, went in search of the soft
seats of the rooms. On a balcony, all alone, were Dona Manuela and lady Pictures, sheltering
both under the same umbrella, affecting look passers-by and talking
quietly serious, mysterious tone.

Pajares showed himself the widow of maternal and gave advice to her
friend with some haughty superiority.

Let's see, they were alone. What was that? Any upset of the family? He could talk quite frankly,
because I knew the great interest which he inspired all of your home. But Dona Manuela, despite
their superiority, could not hide the surprise she came to know the truth.

Go to Mr. Frame! Who could have guessed such a thing ...! All men are same. Be wary of them and more
if they have been quiet in his youth, for it is known that "he who does not make it to the input
to output."

The same thing had happened her with the doctor.

He married, believing that a serious man who showed so much in love, could not be unfaithful,
and yet, he had to tell her the last few years of marriage.

- Neither Santa Rita de Casia, friend Teresa, I suffered as much as
this man possessed.

In short, you already know .... But tell you.

What we are, that mine is over and nobody interest.

Dona Manuela, and intelligent person in the matter, listened to the
poor relationship Teresa who stuttered and had to make efforts not
to mourn. In the morning he had discovered everything. It is true
that something was suspicious and, given the indifference with which
he treated her Antonio. But who could imagine that this man would
dare so much? She believed him occupied only making money for your
home, and that morning, to clean up one of their jackets, were found
in the inside pocket a letter he had great difficulty with reading,
because she was not strong in these things.

- And who was it? - Said
the widow with eager curiosity.

- In one such Clarita. But what a
letter, Dona Manuela! What things so it was indecent! It seems impossible
for honest men and children to read such filth.

And the poor woman
ruborizábase, showing in his face and shiny born cloistered nun the
same expression of shame that if she were the author of the letter.

-
But who is this Clarita? Valiente point will be the such ...!

- Wait
for you, as soon as I learned all I felt like going to bed, which
was still Antonio, to scratch .... Do not laugh, Dona Manuela wanted
to be a man, make a lot .... But worth so little ...!  He has no intention of making domestic service his profession, of being
a servant for the whole of his life.  To have to be subject to the will of others, even to
the small extent to which American servants are subordinate, is offensive to an American's
pride of citizenship, it is contrary to his conception of American equality.  He is a servant
only for the time, and until he finds something better to do.  He accepts a menial position
only as a stepping stone to some more independent employment.  Is it to be wondered at that
American servants have different manners from their brethren in other countries?  When foreigners
find that American servants are not like servants in their own country, they should not resent
their behavior:  it does not denote disrespect, it is only the outcrop of their natural independence
and aspirations.

All titles of nobility are by the Constitution expressly forbidden. Even titles of honor or
courtesy are but rarely used.  "Honorable" is used to designate members of Congress; and for
a few Americans, such as the President and the Ambassadors, the title "Excellency" is permitted.
Yet, whether it is because the persons entitled to be so addressed do not think that even these
mild titles are consistent with American democracy, or because the American public feels awkward
in employing such stilted terms of address, they are not often used.  I remember that on one
occasion a much respected Chief Executive, on my proposing, in accordance with diplomatic usage
and precedent, to address him as "Your Excellency", begged me to substitute instead "Mr. President".
The plain democratic "Mr." suits the democratic American taste much better than any other title,
and is applied equally to the President of the Republic and to his coachman.  Indeed the plain
name John Smith, without even "Mr.", not only gives no offense, where some higher title might
be employed, but fits just as well, and is in fact often used. Even prominent and distinguished
men do not resent nicknames; for example, the celebrated person whose name is so intimately
connected with that delight of American children and grown-ups--the "Teddy Bear". This characteristic,
like so many other American characteristics, is due not only to the love of equality and independence,
but also to the dislike of any waste of time.

In countries where there are elaborate rules of etiquette concerning titles and forms of address,
none but a Master of Ceremonies can hope to be thoroughly familiar with them, or to be able
to address the distinguished people without withholding from them their due share of high-sounding
titles and epithets; and, be it whispered, these same distinguished people, however broad-minded
and magnanimous they may be in other respects, are sometimes extremely sensitive in this respect.
And even after one has mastered all the rules and forms, and can appreciate and distinguish
the various nice shades which exist between "His Serene Highness", "His Highness", "His Royal
Highness", and "His Imperial Highness", or between "Rt. Rev." and "Most Rev.", one has yet
to learn what titles a particular person has, and with what particular form of address he should
be approached, an impossible task even for a Master of Ceremonies, unless he always has in
his pocket a Burke's Peerage to tell him who's who.  What a waste of time, what an inconvenience,
and what an unnecessary amount of irritation and annoyance all this causes.  How much better
to be able to address any person you meet simply as Mr. So-and-So, without unwittingly treading
on somebody's sensitive corns!  Americans have shown their common sense in doing away with
titles altogether, an example which the sister Republic of China is following.  An illustrious
name loses nothing for having to stand by itself without prefixes and suffixes, handles and
tails.  Mr. Gladstone was no less himself for not prefixing his name with Earl, and the other
titles to which it would have entitled him, as he could have done had he not declined the so-called
honor.  Indeed, like the "Great Commoner", he, if that were possible, endeared himself the
more to his countrymen because of his refusal.  A name, which is great without resorting to
the borrowed light of titles and honors, is greater than any possible suffix or affix which
could be appended to it.

In conclusion, American manners are but an instance or result of the two predominant American
characteristics to which I have already referred, and which reappear in so many other things
American.  A love of independence and of equality, early inculcated, and a keen abhorrence
of waste of time, engendered by the conditions and circumstances of a new country, serve to
explain practically all the manners and mannerisms of Americans.  Even the familiar spectacle
of men walking with their hands deep in their trousers' pockets, or sitting with their legs
crossed needs no other explanation, and to suggest that, because Americans have some habits
which are peculiarly their own, they are either inferior or unmanly, would be to do them a
grave injustice.

Few people are more warm-hearted, genial, and sociable than the Americans.  I do not dwell
on this, because it is quite unnecessary. The fact is perfectly familiar to all who have the
slightest knowledge of them.  Their kindness and warmth to strangers are particularly pleasant,
and are much appreciated by their visitors.  In some other countries, the people, though not
unsociable, surround themselves with so much reserve that strangers are at first chilled and
repulsed, although there are no pleasanter or more hospitable persons anywhere to be found
when once you have broken the ice, and learned to know them; but it is the stranger who must
make the first advances, for they themselves will make no effort to become acquainted, and
their manner is such as to discourage any efforts on the part of the visitor.  You may travel
with them for hours in the same car, sit opposite to them, and all the while they will shelter
themselves behind a newspaper, the broad sheets of which effectively prohibit any attempts
at closer acquaintance.  The following instance, culled from a personal experience, is an illustration.
I was a law student at Lincoln's Inn, London, where there is a splendid law library for the
use of the students and members of the Inn.  I used to go there almost every day to pursue
my legal studies, and generally sat in the same quiet corner. The seat on the opposite side
of the table was usually occupied by another law student.  For months we sat opposite each
other without exchanging a word.  I thought I was too formal and reserved, so I endeavored
to improve matters by occasionally looking up at him as if about to address him, but every
time I did so he looked down as though he did not wish to see me.  Finally I gave up the attempt.
This is the general habit with English gentlemen.  They will not speak to a stranger without
a proper introduction; but in the case I have mentioned surely the rule would have been more
honored by a breach than by the observance.  Seeing that we were fellow students, it might
have been presumed that we were gentlemen and on an equal footing.  How different are the manners
of the American!  You can hardly take a walk, or go for any distance in a train, without being
addressed by a stranger, and not infrequently making a friend.  In some countries the fact
that you are a foreigner only thickens the ice, in America it thaws it.  This delightful trait
in the American character is also traceable to the same cause as that which has helped us to
explain the other peculiarities which have been mentioned.  To good Americans, not only are
the citizens of America born equal, but the citizens of the world are also born equal.

Chapter 9.  American Women

It is rather bold on my part to take up this subject.  It is a path where "fools rush in where
angels fear to tread".  No matter what I say it is sure to provoke criticism, but having frequently
been asked by my lady friends to give my opinion of American women, and having given my solemn
promise that if I ever should write my impressions of America I would do so, it would be a
serious "breach of promise" if I should now break my word.

In general there are three classes of women:  first, those who wish to be praised; secondly,
those who wish to be adversely criticized and condemned; and thirdly, those who are simply
curious to hear what others think of them.  American women do not as a rule belong to either
the first or the second class, but a large majority of them may be ranged under class three.
They wish to know what other people honestly think of them and to hear their candid views.
They are progressive people who desire to improve their defects whenever they are pointed out
to them.  That being the case I must not swerve from my duty of sitting in a high court of
justice to pass judgment on them.

To begin with, the American women are in some respects dissimilar to the women of other nations.
I find them sprightly, talkative and well informed.  They can converse on any subject with
ease and resource, showing that they have a good all-round education.  Often have I derived
considerable information from them.  The persistence with which they stick to their opinions
is remarkable.  Once, when I had a lady visitor at my Legation in Washington, after several
matters had been discussed we commenced talking about women's rights.  I was in favor of giving
women more rights than they are enjoying, but on some points I did not go so far as my lady
friend; after arguing with me for several hours, she, seeing that I did not coincide with all
her views, threatened that she would not leave my house until I had fully digested all her
points, and had become converted to her views.

I have observed that many American women marry foreigners, but that an American rarely has
a foreign wife.  It may be said that foreigners marry American girls for their money, while
American women marry distinguished foreigners for their titles.  This may have been true in
some cases, but other causes than such sordid motives must be looked for.  It is the attractiveness
and the beauty of the American girls which enable them to capture so many foreign husbands.
Their pleasant manners and winsome nature predispose a person in their favor, and with their
well-grounded education and ready fund of knowledge, they easily win any gentleman with marital
propensities.  Had I been single when I first visited America I too might have been a victim--no
wonder then that American men prefer American wives.  Once I was an involuntary match-maker.
Some years ago, during my first mission in Washington, I was invited to attend the wedding
of the daughter of the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court.  When I entered the breakfast room,
I saw the bridesmaids and a number of young men.  Going up to one of the bridesmaids whom I
had previously met, and who was the daughter of a Senator, I asked her when it would be her
turn to become a bride.  She modestly said that she did not know, as she had not yet had an
offer. Turning to the group of young men who were in the room, I jocularly remarked to one
of them, "This is a beautiful lady, would you not like to marry her?"  He replied, "I shall
be most delighted to." Then I said to the young lady, "Will you accept his offer?" She seemed
slightly embarrassed and said something to the effect that as she did not know the gentleman
she could not give a definite answer.  After a few days I met the young lady at an "At Home"
party when she scolded me for being so blunt with her before the young men.  I told her I was
actuated by the best of motives, and a few months later I received an invitation from the young
lady's parents inviting me to be present at their daughter's marriage.  I thought I would go
and find out whether the bridegroom was the young man whom I had introduced to the young lady,
and as soon as I entered the house, the mother of the bride, to my agreeable surprise, informed
me that it was I who had first brought the young couple together, and both the bride and bridegroom
heartily thanked me for my good offices. While some smart smiling listening, no longer be considered,
after all, as young educated and "hope."

One afternoon, Miguel Brutandor called aside and led him to a corner of the Ateneo he proposed
to found between the two newspapers. For this we have a person who facilitated money, and the
general protection of the Earl of Rivers, which would be his inspiration. Halagole the idea
to our youth sees in this a way to awaken your sleeping activity and relieve the minds of lots of ideas
that were buzzing about her past political events and personalities involved in them. Thus accepted
with joy, and Mendoza was charged with taking steps necessary to remove the authorization,
rent room, looking printing, etc.. In a few days these matters were settled, and it was determined
that a Thursday, 1. April will display the first issue of La Independencia,
"liberal daily in the morning."

VIII

After the adventure of the wardrobe, Miguel tried to persuade the general who buys the Silence of
the maiden, in order not to go forward a similar scare. Resolutely opposed Lucia to it, neither
could nor would trust the key to the honor of a servant, and often spoke of betrayal, anonymous
aimed at general, intercepted letters and other scary stories that left no of concern to Michael for
some time. But at the same time being surprised that public as the desvaneos of the lady, would
have gone undetected for her husband. What was positive in all this, and they soon realized, was
that the nature of needed Lucia the encouragement of secrecy and fear. Craving, anxiety, sudden
terrors, waiting long, the last moments of distress, the efforts of ingenuity to find resources
the traits of courage, drama, finally, love pursued with all its mysterious device and dissimulation,
greatly pleased him. It was not shake, place signs on the balconies, hide her lover and kept
two fingers to be discovered, it was monotonous and annoying. Many times, being in bed late
at night, they shivered to hear the sound of a carriage! I quickly raised my head, hands clenched
clutching the arm of her lover, listening anxiously. Could not he come in her husband and
surprise? How scary! What anguish!

Only when the car was still long ahead house vibrating crystals, is soothed his grief and came to
life.

A new adventure very unpleasant, similar to the cabinet, came to end with the patience Miguel and
give courage to require serious attention to General to make his maiden aware of what was happening.

From
the adventure of the wardrobe, Miguel, where the maid was coming, hid in the bedroom under
the bed. One night, as usual, Lucy told him that was the hiding place for Carmen arranged with
the accounts of the day. It seemed that a great way to disguise and avoid suspicion. Then pulled
the bell, and having come to the moment Carmen was yet to take your mind calm. It was time for domestic
confidences: the girl, while explaining the use of money, amused to tell all incidents insignificant
in the day, nonadas of the house spoke at length of the grace of Chuchú, their appropriate
answers, realizing it was the skinny lady, complained Some swear the head, had to chuckle when
Miss Anne had bought a new rice powder box .-- Bah! Why women want that good rice powder? Of all
still has to go out uglier than Pici! - spent reviewing the easement and formulated judgments
and accusations. Mary did not get along with footman. The driver was very bad life his wife,
on Wednesday, had stuck with the whip until he was tired so .-- What Men There is evil! Eh,
Miss? To find one like that, you'd better be single forever.

The General tried to cut sharply the issues and short. Carmen went to the flattery that night
to prolong the conversation .-- How beautiful was the lady with the blue dress had since yesterday
afternoon! The Maid of the Ramirez had heard the gentleman tell his sister. All colors will come
right to the lady, but particularly the blue!

... Ah, blue suited him more than anyone else!

Lucia was touched for a moment: he asked with interest by Ramírez .-- Is it true that the gentleman
are going to Paris one of these days? An ugly guy, but nice: one day he had heard tell a very
funny happened. Then she talked about a dress she planned to be done, light-colored velvet
trimmed with crimson, an idea that had happened to her without refer
to the dressmaker, was sure he had to like a lot.

But suddenly turned itself and said quick word and dry:

- Come on, ... the tissue of the girl sixteen, eh?

- Yes, ma'am.

-
Is forty-three ... Have you bought V. soap?

- Nothing more than a
pill ... I do not remember if the lady had sent to buy two or ...

-
I had had to buy two, but no matter ... Where has put V.?

- In the
bedroom, on the night table.

In pronouncing these words came into the bedroom to find the pill.

When he approached the table, uttered a cry of terror.

Miguel was stiff at the bottom of hiding. The General, haggard voice asked from out:

- What is it, Carmen?

- Miss ... a man's hat on your bed!

There was a moment of silence, during which the heart was jumping Miguel terrible. The General
soon recovered.

- And so it scares V., silly? ... Stirring my closet, I stumbled on that hat Mr., I do not know
how he came to give him ... I interfered and I got it ... If V. wants
and can take some of it, take it ... is useless.

- Thank you, Miss
- said the girl, leaving his hat in his hand .-- I have a brother
who would serve maybe ...

Nothing more was said about it.

The General has continued to take the calm, pale face, the voice a little upset.

Miguel was needed to leave that night without a hat. He waited a while in the neighboring portal
and got into the rental car first hit to cross.

Finally yielded to the general's wishes, strongly expressed by her lover, and was entrusted the
maid. Since then, his interviews were easy and peaceful. Carmen prevented them with art all
molestation, provided them full security and peace. With this new order of things he settled
very well our hero seemed they had taken a great weight shoulders,
in fact too expensive bought before the pleasures that his friend
gave him.

But the general's not got along so well with the quiet and prosaic bias taking his love; security,
stopwatch accuracy of quotations, the kind that they enjoyed calm, the lost heart, began to
bore her, and she weighed herself that Carmen had been paid so willingly to serve. All life
had the skinny on the adventures, but late this hobby has been exacerbated in a remarkable
manner, felt an appetite voracious extraordinary, as if he escaped the youth and I can not
conclude without a big hit. So you can not satisfy with tragic scenes dream because Miguel laughed
at his fears, God exercise his overheated imagination in other kinds of whims rare. Nothing
could be done in their relations in a normal way, was forced marinate all with some sort of mystery.
In the theaters, to communicate any news, can speak without hindrance, he preferred to use
a number of Masonic signs or signals made mysterious fan, gloves, twins and other utensils
of which was sometimes no little confusion and perplexity to Miguel. The letters he wrote
were always signed with name of man, Alfredo, as if they were from a friend to another, but
why not let you come dotted with all sorts of passionate phrases, "I loves with all his heart
... Alfredo. "" Beloved of my soul, minutes away from you become and ever ... "" Yesterday, watching
the moon from the balcony of my room I was struck by the memory night ride we have taken a
few days ago and felt the tears sliding down my face ... " "I sent a tender passionate embrace your
Alfredo." If such letters would be astray much to think and laugh at them Topara curious.

And the truth is not in short supply Lucia, nothing pleased him so much as dissolve the ardor of his
heart spent on endless lines. I had read many novels and blatantly copied concepts more amorous
package: in particular George Sand, his favorite novelist, was supplying a load of thoughts, sometimes
delicate, sometimes quirky, with that season their incommensurable epistles. His dot was very
spiritual write, plagued of exclamation points and ellipses. Not infrequently, after passing
through a Miguel few hours, he sent for the maiden five or six sheets of fine print.

The fantasy of the General's was even more prolific in inventing new pleasures pilgrims. One night in
March, in which rare heavy snow fell on Madrid, looking rolled slowly down through the atmosphere,
it came on appetite making a escursión Retreat with Michael .-- What must be beautiful at
this hour! We'll see snow curdling on the streets of sand and carpet form. What a pleasure
to sink my feet in it! ... And trees! How are the trees? How beautiful! ... I love the snow ... Do
you dare to go? ... Did You?

Clear that Michael did not dare, and he deplored the soul that strange whim, but was ashamed confess.
Resisted, although weak, expressed some doubts about whether they would consent entry; spoke vaguely
of pneumonia, catarrhal fever, etc.. The General was not listening; the project seemed so original,
that nothing would bring it into work, was most romancesco that would never have happened.
Miguel agreed at last, though reluctantly. No However, when they went outside and saw the
sky was clearing and the moon peeked and its silver disc by the edges of a cloud, could not help
uttering an exclamation enthusiasm.

The Retreat was wonderful, wrapped in white haik. The infatuation couples through him with extreme
joy, stopping often to communicate their views. That landscape, a little theater, had to be
disposed of to the General's pleasure. He walked in perpetual ecstasy, leaving exclamations of
surprise away, talking about the sweetness of death, the unseen world and regions where love
is everlasting, ever thought so superior, so far above the common level of humanity as then:
sympathized sincerely vulgar beings in those hours were quietly sleeping, as they did not have
the magical effect of the moon on the snow. Miguel sorry not much, especially since I had sneezed
four or five times.

When viewing a corner where the snow had crystallized in more abundance, surrounded by high hedges
of rose where the trees let go of his arms, thin threads of light, the general's caught and captive
stopped, a bizarre thought flashed through his head and a smile opened his lips. Miguel took his
hand and led him gently to the center of that great site, and allowed to bathe for a moment by
the moonlight. Mil poetic thoughts then crossed the imagination of the lady. What contempt and loathing
which inspired him that time the frivolous world was forced to live! Since that immaculate
white nest should be promoted from the pure regions of the ideal, the country of dreams, to live
and trade with privileged beings, where passion reigns without absurd social barriers. He felt transfigured
into semi-goddess, sublimated by the pale light that flooded and white tapestry lay at his
feet, deified by the swarm of high and beautiful ideas fluttering on his head. The seized with
a fit of passionate madness, and hung around his neck suddenly her lover, covering her with kisses,
then, like a wounded bird of love, dropped into snow, forcing Michael to sit at his side and
began to recite the voice tenderly poem that he had been subdued ever, Le Lac, Lamartine. Holding
hands, together the temples, eyes wet and longing, set in the disk of the moon, both drag dejáronse
gently into the world of chimeras delicious and entrancing accent repeated what had been said
a thousand times already. The white mantle of ermine retained its mark until the sun came to
remove it.

IX

Julia let out a loud guffaw, whose echoes reached the office of Michael. "How why that crazy laugh?
"he asked smiling in the mirror too while dressed to leave.

- Michael! Miguel! - Shouted his sister from the hall .-- Come here,
by God, look, for your life!

Came solicitous, and stick your face in the corridor, he saw his cousin Henry in a pimp suit;
short jacket, sash, embroidered camisole attached to the neck gold
buttons, hat width of felt, tight pants and patent leather boots:
the complement of the suit was a stick in hand, very long, and intended
to drive turkeys.

Julita is against the wall, clutching his waist with the hands to
break a tendon laughter.

Enrique standing near the door, smiling a little embarrassed.

Miguel continued to moment the example of his sister.

- The thing is not worth much laughter - he concluded by saying the
cousin, amostazado.

But neither Julia nor Miguel was ignored.

When they had a little calm, came to examined him, and curiosity.

-
But how the devil has given you and the occurrence of wear?

Did you see your father?

- No: I have been to wear home from a friend I have there the suit ...

- Well if you can see, the fixed throws a fit. And what business have you dress cool today?

-
Takes! Do not you know that opens the season?

- Ah!

"Today there are bulls?

"Kill the cigar?

- You bet!: After fifteen years since I step on the square in Madrid.

That's what came to see if want to go with me.

- Men - said undecided - I'm not very fond of the bulls, but the cigar I've been nice ... Will
you bring me area?

- I bring you the contrabarrera from a friend who is ill. Beside me you know you can not wear, because
all gates are paid, but we're close.

- Oh, take me, Michael! - Said Julia flew into neck .-- Take me to the bulls.

- Do you desire?

- Very big! I love bulls.

- That, that! - Enrique shouted enthusiastically. You are of pure Spanish race. Pisa that hat, chiquita!

And
onto the floor.

Julita minced no fuss, took the compliment to the letter and began to taconear the unfortunate hat in
such a way, that if Henry does not come in time it shatters.

- It's clear that you can not be polite - said in a bad mood while cleaning with the sleeve of
his jacket.

Miguel, prior permission from his stepmother, sent the servant for a home of Lazarus barouche
and a box to a reputable reseller. After mother and daughter wore the classic Miguel blanket
and changed his coat and hat for the American and the fungus, rose four to the carriage.

It was half past two o'clock. The sun was shining in the sky without a cloud peep the horizon
to get a touch paternalism. Madrid enjoyed the privilege of her divine sky without addressing
even a look of gratitude as a Sultana who caresses cause boredom. To cross the Puerta del Sol, saw
the jet source, firing glimmering flashes rise above the roof of the Principal. At the entrance
of the Calle de Alcala was a long queue of buses that crowd assaulted
a wistful, angry, as if they trying to escape a serious and immediate
danger. But quite contrary to what happens in such cases, instead
of opposing each other to climb, everyone helped with application
showing in advance what should be and what will eventually universal
brotherhood.

- Hey, good man, to be V. fall ... Deme V. Knight .--
hand, have I V. by the cane .-- No set V. foot on the wheel .-- Want
V. we pressed for more? Well, man, well, we tighten.

These cries
were heard everywhere, seeing some poor old through the air, high
the imperial arms of the bus at already in it. Faces glowed of joy,
just as the sky. The sidewalk on the right, where was the ticket office,
curd could be seen people that ran it in expectation that the towns
go down and verifications at your pocket. A number of private cars
and saloons covering point below the wide road, galloping towards
the square and through of them, leaving them back at once, ran runaway
buses, while those who were above, without fear of crashing, intoxicated
by the giddy race, greeted with cries joy to those who were leaving
behind them. Some picks with brocade jackets huge hats and also on
some evil galloping horse, carrying to the flanks to a friend affectionately
embraced him not to fall. The pawns slowly down the sidewalks, in
friendly conversation, forming tight and many groups.
I am aware that this is a view which my American friends do not share.  It is very curious
that what is considered as indecent in one country is thought to be quite proper in another.
During the hot summers in the Province of Kiangsu the working women avoid the inconveniences
and chills of perspiration by going about their work with nothing on the upper part of their
bodies, except a chest protector to cover the breasts; in Western countries women would never
think of doing this, even during a season of extreme heat; yet they do not object, even in
the depth of winter, to uncovering their shoulders as low as possible when attending a dinner-party,
a ball, or the theater.  I remember the case of a Chinese rice-pounder in Hongkong who was
arrested and taken to the Police Court on a charge of indecency.  To enable him to do his work
better he had dispensed with all his clothing excepting a loin cloth; for this he was sentenced
to pay a fine of $2, or, in default of payment to be imprisoned for a week.  The English Magistrate,
in imposing the fine, lectured him severely, remarking that in a civilized community such primitive
manners could not be tolerated, as they were both barbarous and indecent.  When he said this
did he think of the way the women of his country dress when they go to a ball?

It must be remembered that modesty is wholly a matter of conventionality and custom.  Competent
observers have testified that savages who have been accustomed to nudity all their lives are
covered with shame when made to put on clothing for the first time.  They exhibit as much confusion
as a civilized person would if compelled to strip naked in public.  In the words of a competent
authority on this subject:  "The facts appear to prove that the feeling of shame, far from
being the cause of man's covering his body is, on the contrary, a result of this custom; and
that the covering, if not used as a protection from the climate, owes its origin, at least
in many cases, to the desire of men and women to make themselves attractive." Strange as it
may seem, it is nevertheless true, that a figure partially clad appears more indecent than
one that is perfectly nude.

The fourth object of clothes is ornament, but ornaments should be harmless, not only to the
wearer, but also to other people; yet from the following paragraph, copied from one of the
daily newspapers, it does not appear that they are.

  "London, May 7.  The death of a girl from blood-poisoning caused by a
  hatpin penetrating her nose was inquired into at Stockport, Cheshire,
  yesterday. The deceased was Mary Elizabeth Thornton, aged twenty-four,
  daughter of a Stockport tradesman.  The father said that on Saturday
  evening, April 20, his daughter was speaking to a friend, Mrs.
  Pickford, outside the shop. On the following Monday she complained of
  her nose being sore. Next day she again complained and said, "It must
  be the hatpin." While talking to Mrs. Pickford, she explained, Mrs.
  Pickford's baby stumbled on the footpath.  They both stooped to pick
  it up, and a hatpin in Mrs. Pickford's hat caught her in the nostril.
  His daughter gradually got worse and died on Saturday last.  Mrs.
  Pickford, wife of a paper merchant, said that some minutes after the
  deceased had picked up the child she said, "Do you know, I scratched
  my nose on your hatpin?"  Mrs. Pickford was wearing the hatpin in
  court. It projected two inches from the hat and was about twelve inches
  in length. Dr. Howie Smith said that septic inflammation was set up
  as a result of the wound, and travelling to the brain caused
  meningitis. The coroner said that not many cases came before coroners
  in which death was directly traceable to the hatpin but there must be
  a very large number of cases in which the hatpin caused injury,
  in some cases loss of sight.  It was no uncommon sight to see
  these deadly weapons protruding three or four inches from the hat.
  In Hamburg women were compelled by statute to put shields or
  protectors on the points of hatpins.  In England nothing had been
  done, but this case showed that it was high time something was done.
  If women insisted on wearing hatpins they should take precaution
  of wearing also a shield or protector which would prevent them
  inflicting injury on other people.  The jury returned a verdict
  of accidental death, and expressed their opinion that long hatpins
  ought to be done away with or their points protected."

To wear jewels, necklaces of brilliants, precious stones and pearls, or ribbons with brilliants
round the hair is a pleasing custom and a pretty sight.  But to see a lady wearing a long gown
trailing on the ground does not impress me as being elegant, though I understand the ladies
in Europe and America think otherwise.  It would almost seem as if their conceptions of beauty
depended on the length of their skirts. In a ballroom one sometimes finds it very difficult
not to tread on the ladies' skirts, and on ceremonial occasions each lady has two page boys
to hold up the train of her dress.  It is impossible to teach an Oriental to appreciate this
sort of thing.  Certainly skirts which are not made either for utility or comfort, and which
fashion changes, add nothing to the wearer's beauty; especially does this remark apply to the
"hobble skirt", with its impediment to free movement of the legs. The ungainly "hobble skirt"
compels the wearer to walk carefully and with short steps, and when she dances she has to lift
up her dress. Now the latest fashion seems to be the "slashed skirt" which, however, has the
advantage of keeping the lower hem of the skirt clean. Doubtless this, in turn, will give place
to other novelties.  A Chinese lady, Doctor Ya Mei-kin, who has been educated in America, adopted
while there the American attire, but as soon as she returned to China she resumed her own native
dress.  Let us hear what she has to say on this subject.  Speaking of Western civilization
she said: "If we keep our own mode of life it is not for the sake of blind conservatism.  We
are more logical in our ways than the average European imagines.  I wear for instance this
'ao' dress as you see, cut in one piece and allowing the limbs free play--because it is manifestly
a more rational and comfortable attire than your fashionable skirt from Paris.  On the other
hand we are ready to assimilate such notions from the West as will really prove beneficial
to us."  Beauty is a matter of education: when you have become accustomed to anything, however
quaint or queer, you will not think it so after a while.  When I first went abroad and saw
young girls going about in the streets with their hair falling loose over their shoulders,
I was a little shocked.  I thought how careless their parents must be to allow their girls
to go out in that untidy state.  Later, finding that it was the fashion, I changed my mind,
until by degrees I came to think that it looked quite nice; thus do conventionality and custom
change one's opinions.  But it should be remembered that no custom or conventionality which
sanctions the distorting of nature, or which interferes with the free exercise of any member
of the body, can ever be called beautiful.  It has always been a great wonder to me that American
and European ladies who are by no means slow to help forward any movement for reform, have
taken no active steps to improve the uncouth and injurious style of their own clothes.  How
can they expect to be granted the privileges of men until they show their superiority by freeing
themselves from the enthrallment of the conventionalities of fashion?

Men's dress is by no means superior to the women's.  It is so tight that it causes the wearer
to suffer from the heat much more than is necessary, and I am certain that many cases of sunstroke
have been chiefly due to tight clothing.  I must admire the courage of Dr. Mary Walker, an
American lady, who has adopted man's costume, but I wonder that, with her singular independence
and ingenuity she has not introduced a better form of dress, instead of slavishly adopting
the garb of the men.  I speak from experience.  When I was a law student in England, in deference
to the opinion of my English friends, I discarded Chinese clothes in favor of the European
dress, but I soon found it very uncomfortable.  In the winter it was not warm enough, but in
summer it was too warm because it was so tight.  Then I had trouble with the shoes.  They gave
me the most distressing corns.  When, on returning to China, I resumed my own national costume
my corns disappeared, and I had no more colds.  I do not contend that the Chinese dress is
perfect, but I have no hesitation in affirming that it is more comfortable and, according to
my views, very much prettier than the American fashions.  It is superior to any other kind
of dress that I have known.  To appreciate the benefits to be derived from comfortable clothing,
you have to wear it for a while.  Dress should not restrain the free movement of every part
of the body, neither should it be so tight as to hinder in any way the free circulation of
the blood, or to interfere with the process of evaporation through the skin.  I cannot understand
why Americans, who are correct and cautious about most things, are so very careless of their
own personal comfort in the matter of clothing.  Is anything more important than that which
concerns their health and comfort?  Why should they continue wearing clothes which retard their
movements, and which are so inconvenient that they expose the wearers to constant risk and
danger?  How can they consistently call themselves independent while they servilely follow
the mandates of the dressmakers who periodically make money by inventing new fashions necessitating
new clothes?  Brave Americans, wake up!  Assert your freedom!

It would be very bold, and indeed impertinent, on my part to suggest to my American friends
that they should adopt the Chinese costume.  It has much to recommend it, but I must candidly
confess that it might be improved.  Why not convene an international congress to decide as
to the best form of dress for men and women?  Male and female delegates from all over the world
might be invited, and samples of all kinds of costumes exhibited.  Out of them all let those
which are considered the best for men and most suitable for women be recommended, with such
improvements as the congress may deem necessary.  The advantages of a universal uniformity
of costumes would be far-reaching.  There would be no further occasion for any one to look
askance at another, as has frequently happened when some stranger has been seen wearing what
was considered an uncomely or unsuitable garb; universal uniformity of costume would also tend
to draw people closer together, and to make them more friendly.  Uniforms and badges promote
brotherhood.  I have enough faith in the American people to believe that my humble suggestion
will receive their favorable consideration and that in due time it will be carried into effect.

Chapter 11.  American versus Chinese Civilization

This is a big subject.  Its exhaustive treatment would require a large volume.  In a little
chapter such as this I have no intention of doing more than to cast a glance at its cuff buttons
and some of the frills on its shirt.  Those who want a thesis must look elsewhere.

Now what is Civilization?  According to Webster it is "the act of civilizing or the state of
being civilized; national culture; refinement." "Civilization began with the domestication
of animals," says Alfred Russell Wallace, but whether for the animal that was domesticated
or for the man domesticating it is not clear.  In a way the remark probably applies to both,
for the commencement of culture, or the beginning of civilization, was our reclamation from
a savage state.  We often hear people, especially Westerners, calling themselves "highly civilized",
and to some extent they have good grounds for their claim, but do they really manifest the
qualifications mentioned by Burke?  Are they indeed so "highly civilized" as to be in all respects
worthy paragons to the so-called semi-civilized nations?  Have not some of their policies been
such as can be characterized only as crooked and selfish actions which less civilized peoples
would not have thought of?  I believe that every disinterested reader will be able to supply
confirmatory illustrations for himself, but I will enforce the point by giving a few Chinese
ideals of a truly civilized man:

"He guards his body as if holding jade"; i.e., he will not contaminate himself with mental
or moral filth.

"He does not gratify his appetite, nor in his dwelling place does he seek ease"; i.e., he uses
the physical without being submerged by it.

"Without weapons he will not attack a tiger, nor will he dare to cross a river without a boat";
in other words he will never ruin himself and his family by purely speculative practices.

He will "send charcoal in a snowstorm, but he will not add flowers to embroidery", meaning
that he renders timely assistance when necessary, but does not curry favor by presents to those
who do not need them.

Our most honored heroes are said to have made their virtue "brilliant" and one of them engraved
on his bath-tub the axiom--"If you can renovate yourself one day, do so from day to day.  Let
there be daily renovation."  Our ideal for the ruler is that the regulation of the state must
commence with his regulation of himself.

It is too often forgotten that civilization, like religion, originally came from the East.
Long before Europe and America were civilized, yea while they were still in a state of barbarism,
there were nations in the East, including China, superior to them in manners, in education,
and in government; possessed of a literature equal to any, and of arts and sciences totally
unknown in the West.  Self-preservation and self-interest make all men restless, and so Eastern
peoples gradually moved to the West taking their knowledge with them; Western people who came
into close contact with them learned their civilization.  This fusion of East and West was
the beginning of Western civilization.

A Chinese proverb compares a pupil who excels his teacher to the color green, which originates
with blue but is superior to it.  This may aptly be applied to Westerners, for they originally
learned literature, science, and other arts from the East; but they have proven apt pupils
and have excelled their old masters.  I wish I could find an apothegm concerning a former master
who went back to school and surpassed his clever pupil.  The non-existence of such a maxim
probably indicates that no such case has as yet occurred, but that by no means proves that
it never will.

Coming now to particulars I would say that one of the distinguishing features in the American
people which I much admire is their earnestness and perseverance.  When they decide to take
up anything, whether it be an invention or the investigation of a difficult problem, they display
indomitable perseverance and patience.  Mr. Edison, for example, sleeps, it is said, in his
factory and is inaccessible for days when he has a problem to solve, frequently even forgetting
food and sleep.  I can only compare him to our sage Confucius, who, hearing a charming piece
of music which he wanted to study, became so engrossed in it that for many days he forgot to
eat, while for three months he did not know the taste of meat.

The dauntless courage of the aviators, not only in America, but in Europe also, is a wonderful
thing.  "The toll of the air", in the shape of fatal accidents from aviation, mounts into the
hundreds, and yet men are undeterred in the pursuit of their investigations.  With such intrepidity,
perseverance, and genius, it is merely a question of time, and I hope it will not be long,
when the art of flying, either by aeroplanes or airships, will be perfectly safe.  When that
time arrives I mean to make an air trip to America, and I anticipate pleasures from the novel
experience such as I do not get from travelling by land or sea.

The remarkable genius for organization observable anywhere in America arouses the visitor's
enthusiastic admiration.  One visits a mercantile office where a number of men are working
at different desks in a large room, and marvels at the quiet and systematic manner in which
they perform their tasks; or one goes to a big bank and is amazed at the large number of customers
ever going in and coming out.  It is difficult to calculate the enormous amount of business
transacted every hour, yet all is done with perfect organization and a proper division of labor,
so that any information required is furnished by the manager or by a clerk, at a moment's notice.
I have often been in these places, and the calm, quiet, earnest way in which the employees
performed their tasks was beyond praise.  It showed that the heads who organized and were directing
the institutions had a firm grasp of multiplex details.

We Chinese have a reputation for being good business men.  When in business on our own account,
or in partnership with a few friends, we succeed marvelously well; but we have yet much to
learn regarding large concerns such as corporations or joint stock companies.  This is not
to be wondered at, for joint stock companies and corporations as conducted in the West were
unknown in China before the advent of foreign merchants in our midst.  Since then a few joint
stock companies have been started in Hongkong, Shanghai, and other ports; these have been carried
on by Chinese exclusively, but the managers have not as yet mastered the systematic Western
methods of conducting such concerns. Even unpractised and inexpert eyes can see great room
for improvement in the management of these businesses.  Here, I must admit, the Japanese are
ahead of us.  Take, for instance, the Yokohama Specie Bank: it has a paid-up capital of Yen
30,000,000 and has branches and agencies not only in all the important towns in Japan, but
also in different ports in China, London, New York, San Francisco, Honolulu, Bombay, Calcutta
and other places.  It is conducted in the latest and most approved scientific fashion; its
reports and accounts, published half-yearly, reveal the exact state of the concern's financial
position and incidentally show that it makes enormous profits.  True, several Chinese banks
of a private or official nature have been established, and some of them have been doing a fair
business, but candor compels me to say that they are not conducted as scientifically as is
the Yokohama Specie Bank, or most American banks.  Corporations and joint stock companies are
still in their infancy in China; but Chinese merchants and bankers, profiting by the mistakes
of the past, will doubtless gradually improve their systems, so that in the future there will
be less and less cause to find fault with them.

One system which has been in vogue within the last ten or twenty years in America, and which
has lately figured much in the limelight, is that of "Trusts".  Here, again, it is only the
ingenuity of Americans which could have brought the system to such gigantic proportions as
to make it possible for it to wield an immense influence over trade, not only in America but
in other countries also.  The main object of the Trust seems to be to combine several companies
under one direction, so as to economize expenses, regulate production and the price of commodities
by destroying competition.  Its advocates declare their policy to be productive of good to
the world, inasmuch as it secures regular supplies of commodities of the best kind at fair
and reasonable prices. On the other hand, its opponents contend that Trusts are injurious to
the real interests of the public, as small companies cannot compete with them, and without
healthy competition the consumer always suffers. Where experts differ it were perhaps wiser
for me not to express an opinion lest I should show no more wisdom than the boy who argued
that lobsters were black and not red because he had often seen them swimming about on the seashore,
but was confuted by his friend who said he knew they were red and not black for he had seen
them on his father's dinner table.

The fact, however, which remains indisputable, is the immense power of wealth.  No one boycotts
money.  It is something no one seems to get enough of.  I have never heard that multi-millionaires
like Carnegie or Rockefeller ever expressed regrets at not being poor, even though they seem
more eager to give money away than to make it.  Most people in America are desirous for money,
and rush every day to their business with no other thought than to accumulate it quickly. 
Their love of money leaves them scarcely time to eat, to drink, or to sleep; waking or sleeping
they think of nothing else.  Wealth is their goal and when they reach it they will probably
be still unsatisfied.  The Chinese are, of course, not averse to wealth.  They can enjoy the
jingling coin as much as anyone, but money is not their only thought. Stood the Lord visited in her living room, casting a hand sitting
with some friends, and finally have a real set with gold only cases, fails and dwarf king, when he
entered his butler and, calling him aside, said:

- A gentleman wants to talk at the moment with his lordship.

- Any unwelcome! Come back tomorrow. Did not he say his name?

- No, sir, but gave me two ounces of gold for message passing, and
as it was decent await answers in the hall, I did enter the study
room.

- And you say he has given two ounces of Alboroque!

Well, it has to be something of importance that brings to this subject.

And

turning to his gatherings, he said:

- Excuse me, gentlemen, I shall soon return, and Don Narciso play for me. It's life which I have
been very battered, and not give it to my worst enemy!

And Don José Antonio went to the study, which was located in the backyard.

Sitting there there a muffled that at present Areche, was discovered and said politely:

- Good and holy nights.

- This is God's. Hello, hello, sir! What has been released from jail without my permission?

-
It did not, sir Visitor. I gave my word, and I will comply, to return soon to prison.

- I guess what you is ... to talk, no doubt, of their cause.

- Precisely, Mr. Inspector.

- For time lost, my friend. I see you in a bad horse, and with heavy heart I have to be severe,
that the king has sent me to walk with softness and contemplations.

In your case there are documents and witnesses atrocities beyond reproach and whose statements
are sufficient envelopes to send to the gallows ten neighbors of
his caliber.

I am very straight, and given If I do not administer justice or with the mother who bore me.

-
Well, Mr. Inspector, against everything he says his lordship is grave
in my process I possess a thousand arguments compelling, yes, sir,
a thousand arguments.

And it is best to be friends and we stop fighting, which only serve to bring uneasiness, and
to raise bad blood fat broth scribes and Pharisees.

- Why, if you so confident to be out gracefully, has not made use
of its arguments?

And would like to see one to refute.

- If the Lord visited me and
keep my anger has not the secret, which strictly speaking diréle are
my arguments.

- Speak clearly and as Christ teaches.

Present myself one of its arguments, and keep nine hundred ninety-nine,
which left no time or opportunity is there for it take care of them.

Then the sheriff put his hand in his pocket, and between the thumb
and the index took an ounce of gold.

- Do you see your honor this
argument?

- This is a pelucon, Mr. mayor!

- For a thousand arguments
of its kind I have ready to cut the process.

And good night, Mr. Inspector, that the hours fly and the word is the word.

And step between step, the mayor took the road to prison.

As the lord of Areche refer that back cogitabundo to take his seat
at the table triplet, which all night long did not play in order,
and that for the first time in his life, he committed two resignations,
clear evidence of the concern of his mind.

III

What demonche! I'm not cursing, but in the story are facts that bring to a crazy.

And proof that Don Jose Antonio de Areche did not play very clean,
they say, the performance of the committee that the King entrusted
him with, is that, despite everything, his majesty was forced to dismiss
him, calling him to Spain, confiscating the property, and sentenced
him to live exiled from the village and court of Madrid.

The day after the interview with the visitor, was released and dismissed the prisoner in the case.

And
keep your faith in the incorruptibility of justice!

I mean, if the boys would smoke a pipe, sheriff's arguments!

THE GIRL'S CRAVINGS

Belief was widespread among our ancestors that pregnant women should
indulge even in its most extravagant whims.

Opposing them was equivalent to ruin the work done. Y Galen's disciples were the major contributors
to invigorate this view, if we give credit to many medical theses or dissertations, which printed in
Lima in several years, can be found in Volume XXIX Various Papers of the National Library.

His women are curious, and enough that they were forbidden to enter
the cloisters Lean On all walks convents.

There was, therefore, in the last century to Lima would not travel
from the cell prior to the kitchen or abbess.

As soon as the family's daughter Eva was presented in an interesting,
little sisters, friends and even the maids were cast to fix agenda
for the month of pilgrimage to the monasteries.

And the best morning he appeared ten or twelve covered on the goal
of San Francisco, for example, and the most lively of them said, addressing
the lego porter

- Ave Maria pure!

- Conceived without sin.

What is offered, sisters?

- Let you go where the Rev. Father Superior and say that this girl, and sight is, is abultadita, which
has a fancy walking the convent, and that we come accompanied by
a job if it happens.

- But many a layman !...-- muttered under his
breath.

- We are all family: the good girl is his aunt carnal, these
two are her sisters in the face are known, these three gordinfloncitas
are your premiums by mother I and this borradita, nieces, Believe
it or not, the beyond, that black pork, is the mother who raised her,
this is your ...

- Enough, enough with the kindred, which is Larguita
- lego interrupted smiling.

Here the girl's fancy with a sigh, and who accompanied her said in chorus:

- Jesus, my dear! Do you feel anything? Prontito you go, brother, you get the license. No tease
and have a job here! Virgen de la Candelaria! Run you, man, you run!

And the goalkeeper was headed, step between steps, the guard cell,
and five minutes after upper back with the license, his paternity
was not to antagonize the ogre insides desire pregnant.

- You can
put the girl's will with all the holy family.

And another lego assumed the duties of guide and Cicero

Of course, in many cases the stomach was sticking, that is, roll of cloth, but or guardian or
keeper could get to find out. For them it was vaulted belly passport in order.

And in the convents of friars went to the monasteries of nuns, and
each returning visit home the girl on the whim bearing flowers, cherries
and apricots, scapulars and pills.

The participating comrades also of blessed bread.

And the procession in Lima lasted a month at least.

An archbishop, to stop the abuse and not daring to break away from usual provided that the capricious
Lima seek the license, not monastic authority, but of the curia,
but as he had to spend on a piece of paper stamped and signed application
and return the next day by the decree, started to decrease cravings.

His successor, Mr La Reguera, cut the root of the evil one no answer
to the first round neighbor who was with the effort.

- What if unfavorably,
illustrious sir? - Insisted the candidate.

- That I do not understand,
my dear, I'm no midwife, but archbishop.

And the good news is that there is a tradition that has aborted Lima not walk cloisters.

* * *

Among the manuscripts at the Royal Academy of History in Madrid, form the collection of Matalinares,
curious file documents relating to America, there is one (notebook 3 º of Volume LXXVII) codex
is just an excerpt of a process that Peru gave reason the girl's whim.

Keeper of the Recoleta of Cajamarca was, for the years 1806, Fray Fernando Jesus Arce, who, contrary
to the archbishop and disciplinary provision, given to allow the walk around Christian cloister
to the ground asked him the delicate ailment. The authority was civil or did not do their reasons for
seeking to heel, and armed process and fat.

Commissioner General's father supported the father Arce, presenting, among other arguments, the
following that, in his view, was crucial and decisive: - The conservation of the fetus is natural
right and the precept of positive law is closing, and the latter
would not be considered charitable exposing a woman to abortion.

Arce's father said to him was a matter of conscience consent to the whim feminine as once refused to
grant a license acontecióle that, three days, he presented the girl's fancy carrying the fetus
in a jar and blaming him for their misfortune. He added the father Arce that he had to go another little
soul in limbo, he was not with livers for an ugly pregnant woman cravings.

The vicar foreign men was seen in a hurry to give his ruling, and
requested the opinion of Matalinares, who was the then prosecutor
of the Audiencia of Lima.

Said Matalinares not the risk of the fetus, but corrupt and considerations of convenience or
privileges Apostolic for certain persons of distinction, had tolerated
the entry of women at close of regular, and the cravings that was
grid and concern.

In short, I ended view that it would prevent the father commissary general ordered the guardian
of the Recoleta pretext for any visits thereafter consented to skirts, under the penalties designated
by the Bull of Benedict XV, promulgated in January 3, 1742.

The vicar, as authorized by relying on opinion, ruled against the keeper, but this is not given
by defeat, and appealed to the bishop, who confirmed the decision.

Fray Fernando Arce Jesus was headstrong, and said at first that they
disregarded the mandate come until the Pope himself, but his friend,
the general curator, got appease saying

- Reverend Father, better
skill than strength.

For the question above all is self-love it will be safe and not adhering
to compliance.

Arce's father was thoughtful one minute, and then sticking a slap on the forehead as who has
been at the crux of intricate matter, said:

- Cabalito! That's it!

And in the act made formal renunciation of guardianship, and not for another office with owl
sending little souls in limbo.

THE GOOD FRIDAY Llorona

TRADITIONAL ANTIQUE TABLE MANNERS

Existed in Lima, until fifty years ago, a women's scribbled all pilongas to wrinkles and poor louse,
whose office was to whine and throw tears as chickpeas. What a bitch profession and evil thing!
What is unique is that every member was old as sin, ugly as a gossip and quilted witches and
hoodlums. In Spain dábanlas the plañidoras name, but in these kingdoms of Peru are baptized with the
pain or crying.

The colonial government did its best to banish them, I'll try a side or regulation duels that
Viceroy Teodoro de Croix sent enact in Lima dated August 31 1786, and have had opportunity
to read in volume XXXVIII of Various Papers Library National. It says at face value, Article
12 of the side: "The use of crying or plañidoras, as opposed to the
maxims of our religion as contrary to law, is perpetually outlawed
and abolished the contrevening imposing the sentence of one month
of service in a hospital, or bakery house of mercy.

" It seems that this camp was like many others, dead letter.

As soon died neighbor who leave finance to pay a decent funeral, when the executor and relatives
were poured through the streets in search of more fame llorona, which was responsible to hire
the gossips who had to accompany. The stipend, as says an old I have consulted cento was four
pesos for the mourner in chief and two for each subordinate.

And when the mourners, casting of lavish, adding some realejos on
price rate, then the sore were also forced to do something extraordinary,
and this thing was to accompany the crying with patatuses, epileptic
seizures and Repelon.

Them together with the so-called ax poor, who attended with a candle in hand, waiting to the
church door and out of the body to give vent to his grief contraband.

Say what you want against them, but what I contend is that the money
earned conscience.

Tell them so trained that it seems as if carried inside the body a Store tears they were so good fake,
thanks to the record of spending by eyes fingers dipped in juice of garlic and onions. Frequently,
and had known them to scatter as the Moor Muza, and lying was a glad exalting between sighs and sorrows
the qualities of the deceased.

- Ay, ay! So generous and charitable! - And that was in the drawer had been usurious nothing less.

-
Ay, ay! So brave and courageous! - Had tied the unfortunate consequence
of the gear evil of terror that caused the elves and penalties.

-
Ay, ay! So honest and good Christian! - And the deceased had been
for his tricks and so calloused that brought consciousness worthy
to die in high position, ie on the gallows.

And this tone were the lamentations.

Did not end here the mission of the mourners. There was still the tail to be skinned, that
is, the ceremony receiving the mourning house of the deceased for
thirty nights.

Enlutábanse draped black, block room, shining a beacon or windshield covered with a veil that
barely left guessing light or oil light a moth bouncing something
like hint of clarity, but actually served only to make the darkness
more terrifying.

From seven in the evening the friends of the deceased in the room fell silent and were seated without
a word.

A duel was in plain consecration of dumb.

The block was the headquarters of the skirts and fleas.

The men imitated friends not to move their lips, which, all things considered, should be harsh
penance for the daughters of Eve. Only to blow it lawful for them weeping loudly and launch from time
to time one oh Jesus! or cavernous breath, which seemed to complain of another world.

Silly scenes happened in the games.

A mischievous, for example, long half-dozen of mice on the block,
and then arming of screaming, running, screaming and tantrums.

Fortunately, at the stroke of eight reception ended: here were the troubles between women. None
wanted to be the first to get up. This act was called breaking the buck.

In the end it was decided to give this show some courage, and approaching the inconsolable not
always widow, he said:

- How you be! God's will be done.

Be satisfied, my daughter, that he is among saints and resting in this ungrateful world. Do not
give the penalty, that is offending who can do anything.

And all would leave with the same litany.

When the family returned to offer his condolences, of course we put
on the table to the widow and competition, and cut the girls, with
the scissors that God gave them, a gorgeous tunics.

What is a grandmother or an aunt, who had the runny nose from going to meet the widow asked.

-
Who broke the buck?

- Doña Stateira, the wife of a notary.

- She had to be, the scoundrel!

It is ... a woman who has the courage to call Stateira! ...

For more than cavilo I fail to realize why this grumbling. Caramba! I guess that a visit should
not be eternal, and someone has to lead by example in taking the road the door, and that no
offense against God or neighbor called Stateira.

On each night the police car received a penny columnar and a chocolate muffin. And do not forget
that lasted a month fair bargain.

Only in the death of the children had no role to play the mourners. Already go! Angels in Heaven!

But
among all plañidoras had one that was more, the ne plus ultra of the genre, and only deigned
to attend funeral of viceroy, of bishops or very exalted personages. Distinguished with the title
of the weeping of Good Friday. The people called it by another name which, not blush to our
readers, we at the bottom of the inkwell.

Thus, it was said: - The funeral of Mr. John Doe has been of good
best.

To tell you girl until the police car was on Good Friday the church door!

To me there is only a desecration than this, and is performed annually in large cities, to walk
or pilgrimage, in November, the cemetery is undertaken.

Vanity of the living and not the sorrow of the bereaved is who that
day decorating the graves with flowers, ribbons and symbolic crowns
.-- What would they say about us? - say the loving relatives -.

It should others see that we spend estate -. And I found vanity even in death, says more learned
from books.

The gravestones are the subject of derision and defamation in that pilgrimage.

- Man! - Says one lad to another chisgarabís of braising, by reviewing
the tablets -.

Look who's here ... La Carmencita ... Do not you remember, boy? ... Which was dear to me cousin,
the banker, and cost an arm and a leg ... Girl very charitable ... and pretty, that yes, only
he painted eyebrows and pursed her mouth to hide a chipped tooth .-- Precious Crown will have
to don Melquiades! Best put his wife in life .-- Good mausoleum has
Junipero gift!

Could be better, that's why he stole a lot when he was Minister of Finance! Valiente rascal!
- Look at the epitaph that have made Mr. Milo, who was but a donkey
with gold hardware and silver saddle.

Call fount of knowledge and wisdom in this great Crab! - Great Fox was Dona Remedios! I met a
whole lot. As it almost had an affair with her husband Juan Lanas! - I did not know he had already
killed the Marquis of Algarrobo. Good old has gone to the hole! As it was a contemporary of
the spurs of Pizarro! - Geez!

Here's a dedicated patriot, those who give wing to eat the breast and they know take advantage
of any calamity.

And just to show of irreverent gossip. These slanderers
hair comes to the couplet popular:

The shoe bring broken, how it
remedaré? With peaks that spread gossip that is not.

The real pain
flees from the noise. Go for a walk to the cemetery the day of deceased
for viewing and be seen, by the thing - where are you going Vincent?,
where are all the people - as will the plaza de toros, for novelty
and for killing time, is to commit the most disgusting and stupid
sacrilege.

Let alone the dead and return to the mourners. 

Parents
of Mercy, in competition with what were the Augustinians Eve, drew
Good Friday procession in a litter with the tomb of Christ, and behind
them and surrounded by many devout, was a disheveled woman, yelling,
cursing Judas, Caiaphas, Pilate and all the executioners, and the
funny thing is that, without being shocked soul living throwing the
Jews as risqué apostrophes point as the children call them ... the
bad word.

In the chapel of Vera Cruz also came at eleven at night,
the famous procession Minerva, which, as everyone knows, were sponsored
by the noble descendants of the companions Pizarro, who was the founder
of the noble brotherhood and got sent to the Pope for a piece of the
true church lignun Cross, relic that still retain the Dominicans.

But
this procession was all severity, while luxury and grandeur. The aristocracy
never gave room for the mourners, leaving the popular motif for the
procession of Our Lady of Mercy.

Archbishop Bartolomé María de las
Heras had not enjoyed such masquerades, and the first year, which
was the 1807, where he attended the procession, into the street, stop
litter ordered to withdraw this outrageous woman with no respect for
the sanctity of the day dared to pronounce curses unclean.

Would
you believe that the people crowded around to stop it? For as it sounds.
No missing rather than detract from the procession it eliminates the
whining!  Look at the recent wars in Europe, first between Italy and
Turkey, and afterward in the Balkans, to say nothing of disturbances in China and other parts
of the world. It is just like warning a child not to take poison and then allowing him to swallow
it and die.  Sensible men should consider this question calmly and seriously.  We all agree
as to the wickedness of war and yet we war with one another; we do not like war yet we cannot
help war. There is surely some hidden defect in the way we have been brought up.

Is not the slogan of nationality, to a great extent, the root of the evil?  Every schoolboy
and schoolgirl is taught the duty of devotion, or strong attachment, to his or her own country,
and every statesman or public man preaches the doctrine of loyalty to one's native land; while
the man who dares to render service to another country, the interests of which are opposed
to the interests of his own land, is denounced a traitor.  In such cases the individual is
never allowed an opinion as to the right or wrong of the dispute.  He is expected to support
his own country and to cry at all times, "Our country, right or wrong."  A politician's best
chance to secure votes is to gloss over the faults of his own party or nation, to dilate on
the wickedness of his neighbors and to exhort his compatriots to be loyal to their national
flag.  Can it be wondered at that men who are imbued with such doctrines become selfish and
narrow-minded and are easily involved in quarrels with other nations?

Patriotism is, of course, the national life.  Twenty-four centuries ago, speaking in the Greek
Colony of Naxos, Pythagoras described this emotion in the following eloquent passage:  "Listen,
my children, to what the State should be to the good citizen.  It is more than father or mother,
it is more than husband or wife, it is more than child or friend.  The State is the father
and mother of all, is the wife of the husband and the husband of the wife.  The family is good,
and good is the joy of the man in wife and in son.  But greater is the State, which is the
protector of all, without which the home would be ravaged and destroyed.  Dear to the good
man is the honor of the woman who bore him, dear the honor of the wife whose children cling
to his knees; but dearer should be the honor of the State that keeps safe the wife and the
child.  It is the State from which comes all that makes your life prosperous, and gives you
beauty and safety.  Within the State are built up the arts, which make the difference between
the barbarian and the man.  If the brave man dies gladly for the hearthstone, far more gladly
should he die for the State."

But only when the State seeks the good of the governed, for said Pythagoras on another occasion:
"Organized society exists for the happiness and welfare of its members; and where it fails
to secure these it stands ipso facto condemned."

But to-day should the State be at war with another, and any citizen or section of citizens
believe their own country wrong and the opposing nation wronged, they dare not say so, or if
they do they run great risk of being punished for treason.  Men and women though no longer
bought and sold in the market place are subjected to subtler forms of serfdom. 

But do not kill, first of all beliefs and being a poet. Fried death is not one suicides of men
of genius. But if not killed, he would know revenge, he was a man and when you come down that lieutenant
and require accountability. Kill him, yes sir, kill him, and then what a scene so tragic!
Lieutenant at his feet, pierced by a sword, Amparo, disheveled, weeping, scolding the sky, and
he stood up as giant ghost, bloody steel in hand, and face a desperate smile, hell, crazy, something
to remind the last act of Don Alvaro. And the poor boy clenched hand pressed to his reed, that
his imagination was "Toledo Steel" and thought wildly in Lope de Vega, Quevedo, Cervantes and
Lord Byron, in all the great men who, in the words of Andresito had had bad fleas, and so giving a
thrust wrote.

Ballad calm, cheerful and insolent rascals, but see the flaw, bourgeois kind, Reid like chickens
crowed, silly women who are celebrating the contortions of the puppets! All not know that the
volcano roars a few steps from you, not know that there is a man who prepares the most horrible
of tragedies, and tomorrow, when the newspapers come out in the long list of what happened, you
can not imagine that the beast in human form who killed rival, the Bride and even the mother,
if you decide to go down, was the young "sweet and sympathetic," which, pale as death, was
made a post near the cafeteria.

Yes, kill and die later; was determined. And he looked to the balcony, trying to give your eyes
the most insolent expression of challenge, but was fixed with emphasis on the lieutenant. Had
good back, her brown head was not a victim, his waist hung a sprat
as well as Andresito reports, had among his cronies rough reputation.

He was not afraid, God lives! What had to have? But all things considered, it was a commonplace,
a detail in bad taste, the entanglement to death in the street with a fool no other company
that of the mules of the battery.

No
     sir, his warlike plan
     was scrapped. What would in the Catholic
Youth?

An author who had delusions of enthusiasm caused this ode sweet to the Virgin:

/ * Lord, you know the secret of birdsong .... * /

A man who knew how to make so many nice things, no one argued with porter. Poets otherwise retaliate.
I just lock herself in her immense pain, throw in sad verses the face of the ungrateful, for
it to falter under the most terrible of punishments .... Was determined: abominaría the world and its "vain
pomp ', would retire to a desert, it would monk, but not like those
bearded, smelly and ragged that were on the streets saddlebags neck,
but according to fashion plate: Puffin white and blue, wearing fine
flannel, red cross at the chest and eyes up, as if filase the tender
regret, endless of wounded souls: a faithful imitation of Gayarre
in the last act of La Favorita.

And Andresito, like looking and dressed in white, wandering poetic
jungle, with hair cut in bangs and arms folded across his chest, humming
with sweet and tearful voice: "Spirito gentile ..."  When Hongkong was ceded to Great Britain at the conclusion
of a war in which China was defeated, it was a bare island containing only a few fishermen's
huts.  In order to make it a trading port and encourage people to live there, the British Government
spent large sums of money year after year for its improvement and development, and through
the wise administration of the local Government every facility was afforded for free trade.
It is now a prosperous British colony with a population of nearly half a million.  But what
have been the advantages to Great Britain?  Financially she has been a great loser, for the
Island which she received at the close of her war with China was for many years a great drain
on her national treasury.  Now Hongkong is a self-supporting colony, but what benefits do the
British enjoy there that do not belong to everyone else?  The colony is open to all foreigners,
and every right which a British merchant has is equally shared with everyone else.  According
to the census of 1911, out of a population of 456,739 only 12,075 were non-Chinese, of whom
a small portion were British; the rest were Chinese.  Thus the prosperity of that colony depends
upon the Chinese who, it is needless to say, are in possession of all the privileges that are
enjoyed by British residents. It should be noticed that the number of foreign firms and stores
(i.e., non-British) have been and are increasing, while big British hongs are less numerous
than before.  Financially, the British people have certainly not been gainers by the acquisition
of that colony.  Of course I shall be told that it adds to the prestige of Great Britain, but
this is an empty, bumptious boast dearly paid for by the British tax-payer.

From an economic and moral point of view, however, I must admit that a great deal of good has
been done by the British Government in Hongkong. It has provided the Chinese with an actual
working model of a Western system of government which, notwithstanding many difficulties, has
succeeded in transforming a barren island into a prosperous town, which is now the largest
shipping port in China.  The impartial administration of law and the humane treatment of criminals
cannot but excite admiration and gain the confidence of the natives.  If the British Government,
in acquiring the desert island, had for its purpose the instruction of the natives in a modern
system of government, she is to be sincerely congratulated, but it is feared that her motives
were less altruistic.

These remarks apply equally, if not with greater force, to the other colonies or possessions
in China under the control of European Powers, as well as to the other colonies of the British
Empire, such as Australia, New Zealand, Canada, and others which are called "self-governing
dominions".  The Imperial Government feels very tender toward these colonists, and practically
they are allowed to manage their affairs as they like.  Since they are so generously treated
and enjoy the protection of so great a power, there is no fear that these self-governing dominions
will ever become independent of their mother country; but if they ever should do so, it is
most improbable that she would declare war against them, as the British people have grown wiser
since their experience with the American colonists. 

When some Spanish, especially Andalusian or Castilian, he asked for relief Salcedo it gave him
what he could out of the mine in a certain number of hours. The gift matter almost always at
least the value of a bar, representing two thousand dollars.

Soon the Catalan, Galician and Basques living in the ore came into strife with the Andalusian, Spanish
and Creole favored by Salcedo. Bloody battles were with varied success, until the viceroy Don
Diego de Benavides, Count of Santisteban, instructed Bishop of Arequipa, Fray Juan de Almoguera,
the pacification of the mineral. Supporters Salcedo defeated the
troops of the bishop, the mayor badly wounded fighting Peredo.

In these battles, being the lead of low-Salcedo, melted silver bullets. No will tell you not to
kill luxury.

So, death occurred in Lima Santisteban, and the Royal Court took office. The governor appointed to Laycacota
it, seeing no strength to enforce its authority, handed over the
command of Don Jose Salcedo, who accepted the title of chief justice.

Audience impotent and temporized pleaded with Salcedo, who, fearing new attacks by the Basques,
raised and armed a fortress on the hill.

In truth, the audience was very serious then to deal with riots that
the governor promoted in Chile Meneses and the tremendous and vast
conspiracy of the Inca Bohorques discovered in Lima almost to bursting,
and that led to the chief and his lieutenants the scaffold.

The order was completely restored in Laycacota, and all the neighbors
were happy good governance and chivalry of the chief justice.

But in 1667, the Court had to recognize the new Viceroy arrived from Spain.

This was the Count de Lemos, boy of thirty-three, who, according to historians, only missing
Jesuit cassock to be complete. In about five years of command, shone little as administrator.
Their companies were limited to sending, but without success, a strong squad in pursuit of
the buccaneer Morgan, who had burnt Panama, and seize on the shores of Chile Henry Clerk.
One year after its destruction by the Buccaneers (1670), the former
Panama, founded in 1518, he moved to where it is today.

Two ravenous fire one in February 1737 and another in March 1756, turned into ashes two-thirds
buildings, among which some had to be monumental, judging from the ruins still attract the
attention of travelers.

The Viceroy Conde de Lemos was distinguished only by their devotion. It is often seen sweeping the
floor of the church of the Forsaken, playing her organ, and making the craft of singing in
the solemn Sunday Mass and be given three of the gossip pickles of the nobility, which he considered
such an act unworthy of a grandee of Spain.

Ordered the viceroy, under penalty of imprisonment and fine, nobody paints could cross site
be pressed, they all kneel at the sound of prayers, and chose to
sponsor a their children to cook the convent of San Francisco, who
was a black man with a mug of Jerne and reputation of sanctity.

For each individual in those who were executed, sent to celebrate thirty masses, and consecrated
by at least three hours a day to pray the Little Office and the rosary, confession and communion
every morning, and attending the Jubilee celebration as much as religious
or distribution he announced.

Have never seen such splendid processions
in Lima as then, and Lorente, in History, brings the description of
one who moved from palace to the Homeless, giving long detour, a statue
of Mary that the viceroy had brought specially from Zaragoza. Arco
was at that party whose value was estimated at over two hundred thousand
dollars, such was the profusion jewels and gold and silver pieces
that adorned him.  Yet in China we have
manners, we have arts, we have morals, and we have managed a fairly large society for thousands
of years without the bitter class hatreds, class divisions, and class struggles that have marred
the fair progress of the West.  We have not enslaved our lives to wealth.  We like luxury but
we like other things better.  We love life more than chasing imitations of life.

Our differences of color, like our differences of speech, are accidental, they are due to climatic
and other influences.  We came originally from one stock.  We all started evenly, Heaven has
no favorites.  Man alone has made differences between man and man, and the yellow man is no
whit inferior to the white people in intelligence. During the Russo-Japan War was it not the
yellow race that displayed the superior intelligence?  I am sometimes almost tempted to say
that Asia will have to civilize the West over again.  I am not bitter or sarcastic, but I do
contend that there are yet many things that the white races have to learn from their colored
brethren.  In India, in China, and in Japan there are institutions which have a stability unknown
outside Asia.  Religion has apparently little influence on Western civilization; it is the
corner-stone of society in all Asiatic civilizations.  The result is that the colored races
place morality in the place assigned by their more practical white confreres to economic propositions.
We think, as we contemplate the West, that white people do not understand comfort because they
have no leisure to enjoy contentment; THEY measure life by accumulation, WE by morality.  Family
ties are stronger with the so-called colored races than they are among the more irresponsible
white races; consequently the social sense is keener among the former and much individual suffering
is avoided.  We have our vices, but these are not peculiar to US; and, at least, we have the
merit of being easily governed.  Wherever there are Chinese colonies the general verdict is:
"The Chinese make good citizens."

This is what the late Sir Robert Hart, to whom China owes her Customs organization, said about us:

"They (the Chinese) are well-behaved, law-abiding, intelligent, economical, and industrious;
they can learn anything and do anything; they are punctiliously polite, they worship talent,
and they believe in right so firmly that they scorn to think it requires to be supported or
enforced by might; they delight in literature, and everywhere they have their literary clubs
and coteries for learning and discussing each other's essays and verses; they possess and practise
an admirable system of ethics, and they are generous, charitable, and fond of good work; they
never forget a favor, they make rich return for any kindness, and though they know money will
buy service, a man must be more than wealthy to win esteem and respect; they are practical,
teachable, and wonderfully gifted with common sense; they are excellent artisans, reliable
workmen, and of a good faith that everyone acknowledges and admires in their commercial dealings;
in no country that is or was, has the commandment 'Honor thy father and thy mother', been so
religiously obeyed, or so fully and without exception given effect to, and it is in fact the
keynote of their family, social, official and national life, and because it is so their days
are long in the land God has given them."

The cry of "America for the Americans" or "Australia for the Australians" is most illogical,
for those people were not the original owners of the soil; with far greater reason we in the
far East might shout, "China for the Chinese", "Japan for the Japanese". 

Doña Manuela fled the crash, which made her nervous, but before you get to Main stood still surprised
and fearful. In the gutter, people milled about shouting; Some laugh and other indecent exclaiming,
clucking as if it were a dog fight. Frightened at first by the violent waves of the crowd who came
to her, did not know whether to flee or to obey his curiosity, which kept her still. What was it ...?
Is it stuck? The crowd broke through, and fast, with a blind impulse, as spurred by the terror,
spent a dozen girls disheveled, shaggy, in sandals, with the dirty skirt almost loose and holding
in his hand, instinctively extended bring down barriers, a pair of cotton socks, three lemons,
a bunch of parsley, combs Horn, articles, in short, that can be bought with a few cents at
any juncture. That herd dirty, miserable and scared, with the pallor of hunger in meat and madness
of terror in his eyes, was the piracy market, the outcasts who were outside the law, those unable to
pay the City the license for the sale, and to distinguish the distance the blue coat and cap
golden sheriff's avisábanse with instinctive cries, as herds to sensed danger, and undertook
furious race, pushing pedestrians, sliding between his legs, falling to rise immediately,
leaving holes in the mass of humanity that obstructed the plaza. People laughed at this stampede
at a gallop, holding Sheriff's persecution. No one understood what it was for those unfortunate
loss of their miserable goods, the desperate father back to the hovel where the mother was waiting
ready to seize the couple's actual gain or administer a beating.

Doña Manuela also laughed a little, according to the view that the noisy chase away, and then
entered the market for gravel, looking for wild treats people ruminating
with delight at Christmas, forgotten during the rest of the year.

The coming stalls to the gates of the Principal; codeábanse buyers to the guard, and two officers
of the guard, with his hands in his coat and legs hit by the restless sword, walked through the
crowd looking for pretty faces.

He walked with difficulty, fearing to put the foot on the mats of straw round and high edges,
which amontonábanse, forming pyramid, glossy chestnut-colored chocolate
and hazelnuts, which gave off the pungent perfume of the forests.

Throwing nuts in their bags a cluck-cluck happy whenever the buyer's hand to appreciate the
stirring quality, and a little deeper, like a treasure hard to save, was in small bags the
aristocracy of gravel, sweetish acorns, attracting the eyes of gourmets.
  The lady was
introduced to me as his wife and the girl as his daughter; I naturally supposed that the lady
was the girl's mother, but she told me that the girl was the daughter of her late intimate
friend, and that after her death, knowing that the child's father had been a good and affectionate
husband to her friend, she had gladly become his second wife, and adopted his daughter.

Those who believe in reincarnation (and I hope most of my readers do, as it is a clue to many
mysteries) understand that when people are reincarnated they are not always born in the same
country or continent as that in which they lived in their previous life.  I have an impression
that in one of my former existences I was born and brought up in the United States.  In saying
this I do not express the slightest regrets at having now been born in Asia.  I only wish to
give a hint to those white people who advocate an exclusive policy that in their next life
they may be born in Asia or Africa, and that the injury they are now inflicting on the yellow
people they may themselves have to suffer in another life.

While admitting that we Chinese have our faults and that in some matters we have much to learn,
especially from the Americans, we at least possess one moral quality, magnanimity, while the
primal virtues of industry, economy, obedience, and love of peace, combined with a "moderation
in all things", are also common among us.  Our people have frequently been slighted or ill-treated
but we entertain no revengeful spirit, and are willing to forget.  We believe that in the end
right will conquer might.  Innumerable as have been the disputes between Chinese and foreigners
it can at least be said, without going into details, that we have not, in the first instance,
been the aggressors. Let me supply a local illustration showing how our faults are always exaggerated.
Western people are fond of horse-racing.  In Shanghai they have secured from the Chinese a
large piece of ground where they hold race meetings twice a year, but no Chinese are allowed
on the grand-stand during the race days.  They are provided with a separate entrance, and a
separate enclosure, as though they were the victims of some infectious disease.  I have been
told that a few years ago a Chinese gentleman took some Chinese ladies into the grand-stand
and that they misbehaved; hence this discriminatory treatment of Chinese. 

Don Juan slept that evening, and on a couch in the living room, forced the Spanish siesta rancid,
and awoke surrounded by henchmen, to the summons to him by the mayor.

- For the king! Take your worship prisoner.

The Vizcaya he picked up a knife from his belt Albacete and fell on the mayor and his delegation,
which left him terrified out to the courtyard. More Güerequeque, who had been a lookout at the
front door, looking haggard and battered their partners, took off his coat and threw it with
astonishing rapidity over the head of the offender, who stumbled and fell to the ground, then
the whole pack fell over the fallen, as he is a longstanding practice
the world and were strongly linked with him in the court prison, located
on the street Fish.

- What things so beautiful - muttered Don Rodrigo
on the way - we must see the Day of Judgement in the valley of Jehoshaphat!

Wise without wisdom, honest without honor, each weight back pocket to its rightful owner, and
many children encontradizos the true father to father. Some will go to hack a ruin. What bahorrina,
Lord, what bahorrina! Well I guessed that This Don Juan was blessed face and cat's claw ...
Nothing! Al Capone is cock descañonarlo; that as the song says:

Gentle twisting tree but can be put right, but not enough strength
in acquiring human power.

Three months later, Juan de Villegas, who previously received two hundred lashes by hand executioner's
going on leash with other criminals to the prison of Chagres, convicted and confessed the crime
of defrauding the royal treasury, reagravado with forgery of the signature the Viceroy and
resistance to justice.

When the Viceroy Conde de Castellar, who at that time was forty-six, came to Lima, brought in
his company's own employees who had bought their positions in court, Don Juan de Villegas. During
the trip had the opportunity to attend the treatment of the Viceroy, who took some love and sometimes
invited him to dinner at the palace ... But I realize I'm talking about the viceroy without
having presented in the form to my readers.

We then share knowledge excellence.

II

Don Baltasar de la Cueva, Count of Castellar and Villa-Alonso, M. de Malagon, Lord Viso villas,
Paracuellos, Fuente el Fresno, Porcuna and Benarfases, a native of Madrid, second son of the Duke
of Alburquerque, a knight of Santiago, sheriff perpetual city ​​of
Toro, Castilla and twenty alfaqueque viceroy of Peru, entered Lima
on August 15 1674, boasting - says a historian - in mules richly dressed
the opulence used to make other viceroys.

The people thought, and thought wisely, Don Baltasar not come towards achievements and huge estates,
but in search of honor and welcomed him with keen enthusiasm.

His first administrative acts was to organize the fleet in anticipation of pirate attacks, artillery
Valparaiso, Arica fortify, Guayaquil and Panama, and repair the walls of Callao while increasing its
garrison.

In civil and religious order gave a very wise provisions.

Gave respectability the courts, was jealous guardian of the board, holding serious quarrel
with the Archbishop; reformed the University, created funds to support
the hospital in Santa Ana, and enacted ordinances to moderate luxury
cars and crowds, to avoid the challenges and improve other lines of
police.

In the Treasury made a number of economies in public spending,
punished with the utmost rigor abuses of the magistrates, and performed
thorough inspection of the real boxes.

Commerce and friendship go together, but how Australians can expect to develop trade in a country
whose people are not allowed to come to visit her shores even for the purposes of trade, passes
my comprehension.  Perhaps, having heard so much of the forgiving and magnanimous spirit of
the Chinese, Australians expect the Chinese to greet them with smiles and to trade with them,
while being kicked in return.

I believe in the doctrine of the universal brotherhood of men.  It is contrary to the law (God)
of creation that some people should shut out other people from portions of the earth solely
from motives of selfishness and jealousy; the injury caused by such selfish acts will sooner
or later react on the doers.  "Every man is his own ancestor. We are preparing for the days
that come, and we are what we are to-day on account of what has gone before."  The dog-in-the-manger
policy develops doggish instincts in those who practise it; and, after all, civilization without
kindness and justice is not worth having.  In conclusion, I will let the English poet, William
Wordsworth, state "Nature's case".

Listen to these noble lines from the ninth canto of his "Excursion".

  "Alas! what differs more than man from man,
  And whence that difference?  Whence but from himself?
  For see the universal Race endowed
  With the same upright form.  The sun is fixed
  And the infinite magnificence of heaven
  Fixed, within reach of every human eye;
  The sleepless ocean murmurs for all years;
  The vernal field infuses fresh delight
  Into all hearts.  Throughout the world of sense,
  Even as an object is sublime or fair,
  That object is laid open to the view
  Without reserve or veil; and as a power
  Is salutary, or an influence sweet,
  Are each and all enabled to perceive
  That power, that influence, by impartial law,
  Gifts nobler are vouchsafed alike to all;
  Reason, and, with that reason, smiles and tears;
  Imagination, freedom in the will;
  Conscience to guide and check; and death to be
  Foretasted, immortality conceived
  By all--a blissful immortality,
  To them whose holiness on earth shall make
  The Spirit capable of heaven, assured.

  ..............................The smoke ascends
  To Heaven as lightly from the cottage hearth
  As from the haughtiest palace.  He whose soul
  Ponders this true equality, may walk
  The fields of earth with gratitude and hope;
  Yet, in that meditation, will he find
  Motive to sadder grief, as we have found;
  Lamenting ancient virtues overthrown,
  And for the injustice grieving, that hath made
  So wide a difference between man and man." It is very difficult to uproot a fondness for many years, and this conviction was
what more desperate to Juanito. He felt ashamed for having such a mother and worship, without
But with the sweet blindness of love.

- Hey ...! Aside!

Juanito instinctively jumped back, feeling in his face two burning snort horses. He had reached the
entrance to the cemetery, and those beasts that almost jacos trampling him were bony, unfriendly
and unhealthy that pulled the hearse.

The grim conductor, with its black livery, filthy, over, spraying of insulting the distracted and
threatening him with his whip.

Juanito could barely see him. His eyes were fixed on the white and gold coffin that rocked with
the rattle of the wheels, leaving in its memory the impression of a small cloud crossed by sunlight.

It
should also could you be right there. Better than in the cells before watched with envy. The
silence forever the bitter satisfaction of not being, the grand monotony of eternity free from
all corruption. Why was not he in that box? Why had not fallen Four years earlier, when he
suffered a concussion pneumonia got your whole family? At least have died believing in his mother,
and as a gesture would have comforted a tear the woman.

But now he was alone. Single die, the only thing that was strengthened certainty of death
as a solution to their woes.

The face of a girl leaning out the window of one of the carriages of the procession seemed to change
the course of their ideas. No, it was madness to seek death. If I had not known at Tonic, could
accept such a desperate resolution, but being loved by her, it was crazy. There was still a remedy.
A portion of its capital had given to Don Ramón Morte, not to play Exchange, but for the purchase
of government securities. Sell, even if a loss, the secure part of its capital would pay the outstanding
debts he had contracted to save his mother, and what remains would be set modestly, was the
owner of the Three Roses or a small shop, marrying at once with Tonic.
This was the real solution.

Nothing to search millions, the lesson had been hard. Merchant routine and phlegmatic, good
virtuous husband and father, it was happiness, which he had ambitions for the future.

And when more enthusiastically forjábase the patriarchal illusion of tranquility, a whistle
strident tore the air, as if Mephistopheles, from the clouds, answered with his laughter Squeaky
the beautiful plans of domestic virtue. Juanito, while walking, awoke from strange sleepwalking
that made him run around the city, stirred every minute for the most
diverse thoughts.

Perfilábase front of him over the sky of pale blue square de Toros, with its outline of the Roman
circus. She and the boy was the level crossing the railway, which began to beat, throwing bellows,
a beast of iron.

Juanito saw himself arrested by the string just
lay the linesman. This obstacle seemed irritate. He felt within himself
again that mysterious companion who had guided the his living room
to make the terrible discovery.  This happy combination of Eastern and Western practices
is, I submit, worthy of expansion and extension.  If it were to become universal it would help
to discourage the present unwholesome habit, for it is nothing more than a habit, of devouring
flesh.

One of the dishes indispensable at a fashionable American dinner is the terrapin.  Those who
eat these things say that their flesh has a most agreeable and delicate flavor, and that their
gelatinous skinny necks and fins are delicious, but apparently the most palatable tidbits pall
the taste in time, for it is said that about forty years ago terrapins were so abundant and
cheap that workmen in their agreement with their employers stipulated that terrapin should
not be supplied at their dinner table more than three times a week.  Since then terrapins have
become so rare that no stylish dinner ever takes place without this dish.  Oysters are another
Western sine qua non, and are always served raw.  I wonder how many ladies and gentlemen who
swallow these mollusca with such evident relish know that they are veritable scavengers, which
pick up and swallow every dirty thing in the water.  A friend of mine after taking a few of
them on one occasion, had to leave the table and go home; he was ill afterward for several
days.  One cannot be too careful as to what one eats.  The United States has a Pure Food Department,
but I think it might learn a great deal that it does not know if it were to send a commission
to China to study life in the Buddhist monasteries, where only sanitary, healthful food is
consumed. It is always a surprise to me that people are so indifferent to the kind of food
they take.  Public health officers are useful officials, but when we have become more civilized
each individual will be his own health officer.

Some of the well-known Chinese dishes are very relishable and should not be overlooked by chefs
and dinner hostesses.  I refer to the sharks' fins, and birds' nest--the Eastern counterpart
of the Western piece de resistance--the terrapin.  From a hygienic point of view sharks' fins
may not be considered as very desirable, seeing they are part of the shark, but they are certainly
not worse, and are perhaps better, than what is called the "high and tender" pheasant, and
other flesh foods which are constantly found on Western dining tables, and which are so readily
eaten by connoisseurs.  Birds' nest soup is far superior to turtle soup, and I have the opinion
of an American chemist who analyzed it, that it is innocuous and minus the injurious uric acid
generated by animal flesh, the cause of rheumatic and similar painful complaints.

The "chop suey" supplied in the Chinese restaurants in New York, Chicago, and other places,
seems to be a favorite dish with the American public.  It shows the similarity of our tastes,
and encourages me to expect that some of my recommendations will be accepted.

Will some one inform me why so many varieties of wines are always served on American tables,
and why the sparkling champagne is never avoidable?  Wealthy families will spare neither pains
nor expense to spread most sumptuous dinners, and it has been reported that the cost of an
entertainment given by one rich lady amounted to twenty thousand pounds sterling, although,
as I have said, eating is the last thing for which the guests assemble.

I do not suppose that many will agree with me, but in my opinion it would be much more agreeable,
and improve the general conversation, if all drinks of an intoxicating nature were abolished
from the dining table.  It is gratifying to know that there are some families (may the number
increase every day!) where intoxicating liquors are never seen on their tables.  The first
instance of this sort that came under my notice was in the home of that excellent woman, Mrs.
M. F. Henderson, who is an ardent advocate of diet reform and teetotalism.  Mr. William Jennings
Bryan, the Secretary of State, has set a noble example, as from newspaper reports it appears
that he gave a farewell dinner to Ambassador Bryce, without champagne or other alcoholic drinks.
He has a loyal supporter in Shanghai, in the person of the American Consul-General, Dr. A.
P. Wilder, who, to the great regret of everybody who knows him in this port, is retiring from
the service on account of ill-health.  Dr. Wilder is very popular and figures largely in the
social life of the community, but Dr. Wilder is a staunch opponent of alcohol, and through
his influence wines at public dinners are always treated as extras.  So long as the liquor
traffic is so extensively and profitably carried on in Europe and America, and so long as the
consumption of alcohol is so enormous, so long will there be a difference of opinion as to
its ill effects, but in this matter, by means of its State Prohibition Laws, America is setting
an example to the world.  In no other country are there such extensive tracts without alcohol
as the "Dry States" of America.  China, who is waging war on opium, recognizes in this fact
a kindred, active moral force which is absent elsewhere, and, shaking hands with her sister
republic across the seas, hopes that she will some day be as free of alcoholic poisons as China
herself hopes to be of opium.  Every vice, however, has its defense.  Some years ago I met
a famous Dutch artist in Peking, who, though still in the prime of life, was obliged to lay
aside his work for a few days each month, due to an occasional attack of rheumatism. I found
he was fond of his cup, though I did not understand that he was an immoderate drinker.  I discoursed
to him somewhat lengthily about the evil effects of drink, and showed him that unless he was
willing to give up all intoxicating liquor, his rheumatism would never give him up.  He listened
attentively, pondered for a few minutes, and then gave this characteristic answer:  "I admit
the soundness of your argument but I enjoy my glass exceedingly; if I were to follow your advice
I should be deprived of a lot of pleasure.  Indeed, I would rather have the rheumatic pains,
which disappear after two or three days, and continue to enjoy my alcoholic drinks, than endure
the misery of doing without them."  I warned him that in course of time his rheumatism would
be longer in duration and attack him more frequently, if he continued to ignore its warnings
and to play with what, for him, was certainly poison.  When anyone has a habit, be it injurious
or otherwise, it is not easy to persuade him to abandon it.

"The Aristocracy of Health" written by the talented Mrs. Henderson is an admirable work. 

Castilla accounts, to see how arrogant they lived by their rank, when praying the Hail Mary used
this phrase: Holy Mary, Mother of God, family and our lady, pray for us.

The arms of Castile were: Shield cut short, the first quarter in gules and Castle clear gold
of azure, the second in silver, with lion rampant gules and vert band with two dredger also
Vert.

Daring would determine which of the four is the hero of tradition, and this uncertainty the reader can
apply to either the owl, which fixed the other district will not
come to complain libel.

The admiral was such a man in a chimney flue, well paid for their scrolls and more stiff as
his starched ruff.

In the backyard a great source ostentábase stone, which the neighborhood came to stock up
on water, taking at face value the saying that water and fire to refuse anyone.

But one morning he raised his honor with a humor all hell, and gave orders to his Famula to moliesen
to stick to any creature of the scoundrel who would dare to cross
thresholds in search of the cooling element.

One of the first that suffered the penalty was a poor old woman, which caused a scandal in
the village.

The next day her son, who was a young clergyman who served the parish of St. Jerome a few leagues
from Cuzco, came to town and won the outrage inflicted on his elderly mother. He went immediately
to the house of Admiral, and the man called son scrolls goat and
green candle, and threw verbs and gerunds, frogs and snakes for that
aristocratic mouth ending a sovereign beating him to the priest.

The attack caused the excitement was immense. The authorities did not dare to declare openly against
the tycoon, and gave it time, that eventually everything quiet. But people of the village
church and excommunicated the proud admiral said.

The cleric insulted, just hours after receipt of the grievance, he went to the Cathedral and knelt
to pray before the image of Christ, given to the city by Charles V. Finished his prayer, he
left at the foot of the Supreme Court a petition stating their grievances
and demands justice of God, convinced that there was to be achieved
in men.

Diz who returned to temple the next day and picked up the complaint provided by a decree of
As marginal asks: will there be justice. And so it was three months, until one day before the
house woke up an eye on her fork and the body of excommunication, no one reached to discover the perpetrators,
even suspicions fall on the priest, who knew, with numerous witnesses, try the alibi.

In the process followed two women said the neighborhood had seen a group big-headed men and chiquirriticos,
vulgar elves, preparing the gallows, and that when it was raised,
called for three times at the door of the house, which opened the
third salvo.

Soon after Admiral, prom dress, came in the midst of the elves, who unceremoniously he was
suspended as a cluster.

Such statements justice stood in the dark and unable to proceed against
the goblins, thought it was wise to adjudicate.

If people believe as an article of faith that the goblins were excommunicated
end of the admiral, is not a journalist who has to get into tight
spots to convince him otherwise, for a lot of people skeptical of
that time murmured so low that everything that happened was work of
the Jesuits, for accretion of the importance and respect due to the
priestly state.

III

The mayor and the mayors of Cuzco realized all the viceroy, who after
hearing read the detailed report he told his secretary:

- Placem
the Moorish theme for a romance!

How about this, my good Estúñiga?

- That Your Excellency should take a monkey to those watermelons washers who have failed to find
track of the instigators of the crime.

- And then you lose the poetry of happened - the Esquilache said smiling.

-
True, sir, but will have done justice.

The viceroy was pensive a few seconds and then, rising from his seat,
put hand on the shoulder of his secretary:

- My friend, what is done
is well done, and the world would run better if, in given cases, were
not shyster shysters and other crows Themis, but elves, administering
justice.

And so, good night and God and Mary to take us in His holy guard
and deliver us goblins and remorse.

THE DUST OF THE COUNTESS

CHRONICLE OF THE AGE OF FOURTEEN VICEROY OF PERU

(By Dr. Ignacio La-Puente.)

I

In a June afternoon in 1631 all the bells of the churches of Lima
mourned funeral prayers, and the monks of the four religious orders
at that time were, gathered in full choir chanted psalms and prayers.

The inhabitants of the city three times crowned crossed for sites
that, sixty years later, the Viceroy Conde de la Monclova should build
portals Clerks and keypads, stopping in front of the side door of
the palace.

In it everything is back entrances and exits of characters, more or less characterized.

No one would say it had to anchor in Callao, a galleon with immense new Spain, such was the agitation
palace and popular! or, as in our democratic days, was doing one of those strokes of theater that
can give early end to the justice of rope and stake.

Events, such as water should be drunk at the source, and hence, with leave of the captain arquebusiers
faction is in the above door, penetrate, reader, if you please me company, in a palace recamarín.

They
were in him the most excellent Don Luis Jerónimo Fernández de Cabrera
Bobadilla and Mendoza, Count of Chinchón, Viceroy of these kingdoms
of Peru SM Philip IV, and his close friend the Marquis de Corpa.

Both were silent and looking eagerly towards the door exhaust, which
gave way to open up a new character.

This was an old man.

He wore black wool trousers half leg, corduroy shoes with buckles stone, velvet jacket and
waistcoat, hanging from the latter a thick silver chain with beautiful stamps. If we add that spent
suede gloves, the reader will know the perfect type of a Aesculapian at that time.

Dr. Juan de Vega, a native of Catalonia, newly arrived in Peru, as
a doctor the Viceroy's house was one of the luminaries of the science
that teaches to kill through a recipe.

- Well, don Juan? - Questioned
the viceroy, more with the look of the word.

- Lord, no hope.

Only a miracle can save Dona Francisca.

And Don John retired air pricked.

This short dialogue just for the less informed reader knows what it
is.

The viceroy had arrived in Lima in January 1639, and two months later, his beautiful and young
wife Dona Francisca Henriquez de Ribera, which had landed in Paita not be exposed to the hazards
of a possible naval combat with pirates.

Some time later he felt the viceroy attacked the periodic fever to
be identified by the name of tertian, and was known by the Incas as
endemic in the valley of Rimac.

It is known that when, in 1378, Pachacutec sent an army of thirty
thousand Cuzco to conquer Pachacamac, lost the flower of their troops
to the ravages of tertian.

In the first centuries of European domination, the Spanish who dwelt
in Lima also paid tribute this terrible disease, which healed without
specific known many, and not a few snatched evil.

The Countess of Chinchón was evicted. Science, speaking through his oracle Don Juan de Vega,
had failed.

- So young and so beautiful! - Told his friend, the grieving husband
-. Poor Frank!

Who I would have told you not turn back on I see your heavens of Castile and Granada cármenes?
God mine! A miracle, Lord, a miracle ...

- It will save the countess, his excellency - said a voice at the
door of the room.

The viceroy became surprised.

He was a priest, a son of Ignatius of Loyola, who had pronounced as comforting words.

The Count of Chinchón bowed to the Jesuits. It continued:

- I see the viceroy, your excellency has faith, and God will do the rest.

The viceroy led the priest to the bedside of the dying.

II

Suspend our narrative to draw very lightly box era government Don
Luis Jerónimo Fernández de Cabrera, son of Madrid, commander of Criptana
between Knights of Santiago, governor of the castle of Segovia, treasurer
of Aragon, fourth Earl Chinchón, who held the command since the January
14, 1629 to 18 in the same month of 1639.

Pacific threatened by the Portuguese and the Dutch pirate fleet of foot stick Much of the activity
of the Earl of Chinchón was devoted to putting the Callao and the square in an attitude of defense.
Chile also sent a thousand men against the Araucanian, and three
expeditions against some tribes of Puno, Tucuman and Paraguay.

To sustain the fickle luxury of Philip IV and his courtiers, was the America that contribute with
damage to its prosperity. There was excessive taxes and imposts, which trade in Lima was forced
to endure.

Data then the decline of Potosí and Huancavelica mineral, while the
discovery of Blossom and Caylloma veins.

It was under the rule of the viceroy when, in 1635, occurred the famous
banker's bankruptcy Juan de la Cueva, in which Bank - says Lorente
- had the utmost confidence and as individuals the Government.

That failure was marked, until recently, with the masquerade called
Juan de la Cova, coscoroba.

The Count of Chinchón met was so fanatical as a Christian man.

We tested many of its provisions.

No shipping could get passengers on board, if not previously exhibited a certificate of proof
of having confessed and received communion the day before. The soldiers were also obliged,
under severe penalties, to fill each year this provision, and was banned in the days Lenten
men and women came together in the same temple.

As we have written in our annals of the Inquisition of Lima, was this
the time when more victims sacrificed the court implacable faith.

Portuguese and have enough wealth to be to be buried in the dungeons of the Inquisition. Into
one of the three autos he attended the Earl of Chinchón eleven Portuguese Jews were burned,
wealthy merchants Lima.

We read in the librejo the Duke of Frias in the first prison visit he attended the count was
made regarding a case brought a gentleman from Quito, accused of
tried to revolt against the monarch.

In the present Viceroy concluded that all was slander, and ordered the prisoner release, authorizing
him to return to Quito and giving it six months later to rebel territory,
it being understood that if it could not, would pay informers the
costs of prosecution and damages suffered by the knight.

Handy way to punish whistleblowers envious scoundrels!

Some shrimp must have had its excellence with Lima when issued twice
against the covered side, which, forced to say, made them curl-and
ringlets.

Legislate against women has been and will always be lost sermon.

Back to the viceroy, who left dying in bed.

III

A month later he gave a big party at the palace to celebrate the restoration
of Dona Francisca.

Febrifuge virtue of the scale was discovered.

Fevers attacked an Indian named Pedro de Leyva Loja drank to calm
the heat of thirst, water is a haven, on whose banks grew cinchona
trees.

Saved so did the experience of giving water to other patients in
the same bad pitchers of water, depositing the roots of scale.

With the discovery came to Lima and informed a Jesuit, who, by the successful healing of the viceroy,
lent more humanity service that the monk who invented gunpowder.

The Jesuits kept secret for some years, and they came all that was attacked of tertian. Therefore,
for a long time, the powders of the cinchona bark met powders with the name of the Jesuits.

Dr.
Scrivener says a British doctor, Mr. Talbot, cured with quinine Prince
Conde, the dolphin, Colbert and other characters, selling secrets
to the French government for a considerable sum and a pension.

Linnaeus,
ascribing this as a tribute to the Countess of Chinchón viceroy, brought
to the machine the name that gives science today: Cinchona.

Mendiburu
said that, at first, found the use of quinine strong opposition in
Europe and in Salamanca was held that fall into mortal sin the doctor
who prescribed, for their virtues were due to two Peruvian pact with
the devil.

As for the people of Lima, until recently knew the powder
from the bark of this wonderful tree with the name of the Countess
powders [1].

THE JUSTICE OVER LAYCACOTA

Chronicles of the time of
the nineteenth VICEROY OF PERU

(By Dr. Jose Mariano Jimenez.)

I

In
a quiet afternoon in March, AD 1665, he found himself sitting at the
door of his hut a family of Indians. He composed it in an old woman
who claimed descent from the great Ollantay general, two daughters,
Carmen and Teresa, and a young man named Thomas.

The hut was situated
at the foot of the hill Laycacota. She fifteen or twenty more were
what is called a village of hundred people.

While the girls were
entertained in spinning, the mother told the child, for the thousandth
time family tradition. This is not a secret, well I can make it known
to my readers that are relatively large and curious details in the
important book that Title Annals of Cuzco, published my learned friend
and colleague Don Pio Benigno Congress Mesa.

Here is the tradition
of Ollantay:

Under the rule of Inca Pachacutec, the ninth ruler of
Cuzco, was Ollantay curaca Ollantaytambo Generalissimo of the armies.
Unrequited lover of one of the busts or princesses, requested Pachacutec,
and as a reward for important services, which granted him the hand
of the young. Rejected his claim for the proud monarch, whose blood,
according to the laws of the empire could not mix with the family
does not descend directly from Mango Capac, the chief love of Cusco
disappeared one night, stealing his beloved Cusicoyllor.  However scholarly a man may be,
and however clever he may be in private conversation, when called upon to speak in public he
may sometimes make a very poor impression.  I have known highly placed foreign officials, with
deserved reputations for wisdom and ability, who were shockingly poor speakers at banquets.
They would hesitate and almost stammer, and would prove quite incapable of expressing their
thoughts in any sensible or intelligent manner.  In this respect, personal observations have
convinced me that Americans, as a rule, are better speakers than....  (I will not mention the
nationality in my mind, it might give offense.)  An American, who, without previous notice,
is called upon to speak, generally acquits himself creditably.  He is nearly always witty,
appreciative, and frank.  This is due, I believe, to the thorough-going nature of his education:
he is taught to be self-confident, to believe in his own ability to create, to express his
opinions without fear.  A diffident and retiring man, whose chief characteristic is extreme
modesty, is not likely to be a good speaker; but Americans are free from this weakness.  Far
be it from me to suggest that there are no good speakers in other countries.  America can by
no means claim a monopoly of orators; there are many elsewhere whose sage sayings and forcible
logic are appreciated by all who hear or read them; but, on the whole, Americans excel others
in the readiness of their wit, and their power to make a good extempore speech on any subject,
without opportunity for preparation.

Neither is the fair sex in America behind the men in this matter.  I have heard some most excellent
speeches by women, speeches which would do credit to an orator; but they labor under a disadvantage.
The female voice is soft and low, it is not easily heard in a large room, and consequently
the audience sometimes does not appreciate lady speakers to the extent that they deserve. 
However, I know a lady who possesses a powerful, masculine voice, and who is a very popular
speaker, but she is an exception.  Anyhow I believe the worst speaker, male or female, could
improve by practising private declamation, and awakening to the importance of articulation,
modulation, and--the pause.

Another class of social functions are "At Homes", tea parties, and receptions.  The number
of guests invited to these is almost unlimited, it may be one or two dozen, or one or two dozen
hundreds.  The purpose of these is usually to meet some distinguished stranger, some guest
in the house, or the newly married daughter of the hostess.  It is impossible for the host
or hostess to remember all those who attend, or even all who have been invited to attend; generally
visitors leave their cards, although many do not even observe this rule, but walk right in
as if they owned the house.  When a newcomer is introduced his name is scarcely audible, and
before the hostess, or the distinguished guest, has exchanged more than one or two words with
him, another stranger comes along, so that it is quite excusable if the next time the hosts
meet these people they do not recognize them.  In China a new fashion is now in vogue; new
acquaintances exchange cards.  If this custom should be adopted in America there would be less
complaints about new friends receiving the cold shoulder from those who they thought should
have known them.

In large receptions, such as those mentioned above, however spacious the reception hall, in
a great many instances there is not even standing room for all who attend.  It requires but
little imagination to understand the condition of the atmosphere when there is no proper ventilation.
Now, what always astonished me was, that although the parlor might be crowded with ladies and
gentlemen, all the windows were, as a rule, kept closed, with the result that the place was
full of vitiated air.  Frequently after a short time I have had to slip away when I would willingly
have remained longer to enjoy the charming company.  If I had done so, however, I should have
taken into my lungs a large amount of the obnoxious atmosphere exhaled from hundreds of other
persons in the room, to the injury of my health, and no one can give his fellows his best unless
his health is hearty.  No wonder we often hear of a host or hostess being unwell after a big
function. Their feelings on the morning after are often the reverse of "good-will to men",
and the cause is not a lowered moral heartiness but a weakened physical body through breathing
too much air exhaled from other people's lungs.  When man understands, he will make "good health"
a religious duty.

In connection with this I quote Dr. J. H. Kellogg, the eminent physician and Superintendent
of the Battle Creek Sanitarium.  In his book, "The Living Temple"[3], the doctor speaks as
follows on the importance of breathing pure air:  "The purpose of breathing is to obtain from
the air a supply of oxygen, which the blood takes up and carries to the tissues.  Oxygen is
one of the most essential of all the materials required for the support of life....  The amount
of oxygen necessarily required for this purpose is about one and one-fourth cubic inches for
each breath....  In place of the one and one-fourth cubic inches of oxygen taken into the blood,
a cubic inch of carbonic acid gas is given off, and along with it are thrown off various other
still more poisonous substances which find a natural exit through the lungs. The amount of
these combined poisons thrown off with a single breath is sufficient to contaminate, and render
unfit to breathe, three cubic feet, or three-fourths of a barrel, of air.  Counting an average
of twenty breaths a minute for children and adults, the amount of air contaminated per minute
would be three times twenty or sixty cubic feet, or one cubic foot a second....  Every one
should become intelligent in relation to the matter of ventilation, and should appreciate its
importance.  Vast and irreparable injury frequently results from the confinement of several
scores or hundreds of people in a schoolroom, church, or lecture room, without adequate means
of removing the impurities thrown off from their lungs and bodies.  The same air being breathed
over and over becomes densely charged with poisons, which render the blood impure, lessen the
bodily resistance, and induce susceptibility to taking cold, and to infection with the germs
of pneumonia, consumption, and other infectious diseases, which are always present in a very
crowded audience room.  Suppose, for example, a thousand persons are seated in a room forty
feet in width, sixty in length, and fifteen in height:  how long a time would elapse before
the air of such a room would become unfit for further respiration?  Remembering that each person
spoils one foot of air every second, it is clear that one thousand cubic feet of air will be
contaminated for every second that the room is occupied.  To ascertain the number of seconds
which would elapse before the entire air contained in the room will be contaminated, so that
it is unfit for further breathing, we have only to divide the cubic contents of the room by
one thousand.  Multiplying, we have 60*40*15 equals 36,000, the number of cubic feet.  This,
divided by one thousand, gives thirty-six as the number of seconds.  Thus it appears that with
closed doors and windows, breath poisoning of the audience would begin at the end of thirty-six
seconds, or less than one minute.  The condition of the air in such a room at the end of an
hour cannot be adequately pictured in words, and yet hundreds of audiences are daily subjected
to just such inhumane treatment through ignorance."

The above remarks apply not only to churches, lecture rooms, and other public places, but also
with equal force to offices and family houses. I should like to know how many persons pay even
a little attention to this important subject of pure air breathing?  You go to an office, whether
large or small, and you find all the windows closed, although there are half-a-dozen or more
persons working in the room.  No wonder that managers, clerks, and other office workers often
break down and require a holiday to recuperate their impaired health at the seaside, or elsewhere.

When you call at a private residence you will find the same thing, all the windows closed.
It is true that there are not so many persons in the room as in an office, but if your sense
of smell is keen you will notice that the air has close, stuffy exhalations, which surely cannot
be sanitary.  If you venture to suggest that one of the windows be opened the lady of the house
will at once tell you that you will be in a draught and catch cold.

It is a matter of daily occurrence to find a number of persons dining in a room where there
is no opening for the contaminated air to leak out, or for the fresh air to come in.  After
dinner the gentlemen adjourn to the library to enjoy the sweet perfumes of smoking for an hour
or so with closed windows.  What a picture would be presented if the bacteria in the air could
be sketched, enlarged, and thrown on a screen, or better still shown in a cinematograph, but
apparently gentlemen do not mind anything so long as they can inhale the pernicious tobacco fumes.

It is a common practice, I fear, to keep the windows of the bedroom closed, except in hot weather.
I have often suggested to friends that, for the sake of their health, they should at least
keep one of the windows, if not more, open during the night, but they have pooh-poohed the
idea on account of that bugaboo--a draught.  It is one of the mysteries of the age that people
should be willing to breathe second-hand air when there is so much pure, fresh air out of doors
to be had for nothing; after inhaling and exhaling the same air over and over again all through
the night it is not strange that they rise in the morning languid and dull instead of being
refreshed and in high spirits.  No one who is deprived of a sufficiency of fresh air can long
remain efficient.  Health is the cornerstone of success.  I hear many nowadays talking of Eugenics. 

His Excellency Mr. Don Agustín de Jáuregui, a native of Navarre and the family of the Counts Miranda
and Teba, Knight of the Order of Santiago and lieutenant general of the royal armies, played the president
of Chile when Carlos III relieved him unfairly and rebuff, Viceroy Don Manuel Guirior. The Chevalier
de Jáuregui arrived in Lima on June 21, 1780, and frankly, none of his predecessors received
the worst command under auspices.

On the one hand, Chandigarh Wild had just burned and looted several villages civilized and, secondly,
the tax charge and the inspector tyrannical procedures Areche serious disturbances had occurred,
in which many were magistrates and tax collector sacrificed to the popular anger. It can be
said that the fire was general in the country, Guirior however, that had been on hold the collection
of the hateful and exaggerated contributions, while better agreement
with the monarch turned his steps.

Also in 1779 war broke out between Spain and England, and repeated warnings from Europe the
new viceroy claimed that the queen of the seas getting ready a fleet to the Pacific.

Jauregui (last name, in Basque, means residence of the lord) in anticipation
of pirate feints, and artillery had to fortify the coast, organize
militias and increase Navy, called for strong measures to expenditure,
which increased the hardship public.

Just four months ago that Don Agustín de Jáuregui occupied the throne
of the viceroys, when there were reports of death due to Corregidor
Arriaga, and with it than an extension More than three hundred miles
was proclaimed ruler of the Inca and Peru, the cacique Tupac Amaru.

This is not the story here is tremendous revolution which, as you
know, seriously jeopardizing the colonial government.

Very little time had failed to make the work been done Independence.

On April 6, Good Friday of 1781, were captured by the Inca and their
main subjects, with those who exercised the most barbaric horrors.

There tongues and hands cut dismembered bodies, hanging and garrote. Areche authorized outrage
and a half.

With the execution of the Inca, his wife Dona Micaela, his sons and brothers, were the Revolutionaries
without a center of unity.

However, the spark was not extinguished until July 1783, held in Lima execution of Tupac Philip,
brother of the unfortunate Inca, the natural leader of Huarochirí. "So - says the Dean Funes -
ended this revolution and difficult to present the story again no
more justified or less happy.

"

Weapons of Jauregui's house were: Shield curtain, the first quarter in gold with an oak and a boar
cornered intern, the second gules and a silver castle with flag, the third Azure, three fleurs
de lys.

It is well known that the April 26, 1784 the Viceroy Agustín de Jáuregui received the gift of
a basket of cherries, the fruit was very fond of excellence, and barely had eaten two or three
fell down senseless.

Thirty hours after the palace opened the big door the reception room
and in a chair under the canopy, he looked great dressed Jáuregui
uniform.

According to the case, the clerk ceremonial chamber, followed by
the Royal Court, moved up a few steps away from the canopy, and said
aloud three times: Excellent Don Agustin Jauregui!

And then, turning the contest, gave this statement must: Gentlemen
do not respond.

He died! He died! He died!

Then pulled out a protocol, and hearers stamped their signatures on it.

So the Indians avenged the death of Tupac Amaru.

THE KITTY MARI-RAMOS who flatters with the tail and SPIDER HAND

CHRONICLE
OF THE THIRTY-FOURTH SEASON OF THE VICEROY OF PERU

(A Carlos Toribio
Robinet.)

At the beginning of the Alameda de Acho and the sidewalk
is back to the chapel of San Lorenzo, made in 1834, there is a dilapidated
looking house, which was, for the years 1788, theater not one of those
stories from trinkets and laced, but a drama that tradition has responsible
for delivering to us with all its terrible detail.

I

Twenty Aprils very Galanos, that funny brown skin velvety gave much fame of Lima, before spreading
about damn trendy concoction marinate the face, and scramble and
walk to the wall as a bricklayer in powder pink with rice blackest
eyes night of intrigue and veiled by curly eyelashes, mouth inviting,
like sugar amerengado; graceful body, if any, and a foot that was
standing to raise the temptation neighbor kiss, that was in the year
of 1776, Benedicta Salazar.

His parents, dying, left without homes or shelter cage and an aunt from witch and matchmaker,
as Quevedo said, and more grumpy than piltrafero mastiff, which took on a whim marry his niece
with a friend, that a Spanish league be revealed in a whiff son of Catalonia, and his hands were
calloused aindamáis and beard grown to more debt public. Benedicta watched the suitor with the
same mosquito nuisance than a trumpet, and not daring to give pumpkins
and melons, resorted to the hackneyed expediende to become archidevota,
having a father in spirit and say that their aim was to Monji and
not a wedding.

Catalan, Repulgue attentive to the girl, murmured:

girl with a lot
of boyfriends, none that you marry, if you keep it to four has a king
the deck.

Hence arose uneasiness between niece and aunt. The old woman was prudish and papahostias, and the girl
broke to mourn as a blessed of God, so that infuriates Megera, the shouting - Hypocrite! I do not
be fooled with purisimitas. What are these whining? You're like the dog of John Gizzard, before
you drop the stick and complain. "So Monji? Who does not know you that you buy, bag of cockroaches.
One would think not break plate and is able to take your eyes to the executioner Grano de Oro
"If I will not know my vineyard grapes? "So you suck the beard? Look at the prim of Jurquillos
that washed the bones fry! Then you should see bulls and reeds as I caught the best of my fingernails
beardless you pack the court!

Look, look at the kitten's Mari Ramos, who was averse to mice and swallowed the worms! Curse the
girl's half almond!

How are you players were daily bread of the neighborhood girls, jealous
of the beauty Benedicta, resulted in the nickname baptize Gatita Mari-Ramos,
and soon in the parish the entire zangolotinos lads and other children
that were to step out of church more, they said:

- What modosita
and how cute is the Mari-Ramos Kitty!

The truth of the story is that the aunt was not misguided in their inklings. A fop, Don Aquilino
Leura was the headache of the niece, and that it was already exasperated walk nose always a twinkling
of an eye, or that their love had come to end run over by all respect, giving the devil the
herd and doodle, this is one night happened ... what had to happen. The Mari-Ramos kitten escaped
through the roof, in love and pert company of a cat who smelled of
musk and whose hand was soft.

II

Give it time and not walk with lilailas and recancanillas. That is, while fans rush the honeymoon
to give entry to the rink, we can take, dearest reader, the usual historical parrafillo.

His Excellency Mr. Don Teodoro de Croix, Croix Knight, commander of the most distinguished Teutonic
Order in Germany, the Walloon guards captain and lieutenant general of the royal armies, made
his entry into Lima on April 6, 1784.

For many years he had served in Mexico under the orders of his uncle (the Viceroy Croix), and returned
to Spain, Carlos III appointed him its representative in these kingdoms
of Peru.

"It was their excellence - tells a reporter - a man of eminent virtue, and distinguished himself
by charity, then repeatedly kept the candle because the silver candlestick
had given to the poor, suddenly having no money with which succor;
frequented sacraments and was a true Christian.

"

The administration of the gentleman Croix, who was called the Flamingo, was of great benefit
for the country.

The viceroyalty was divided into seven municipalities, and these into districts or sub-delegations.
Estableciéronse the Royal Audiencia of Cuzco and the court of Mining, Victor repobláronse valleys
and Acobamba and copy the Bishop Rosa Chavez founded the famous house
in Arequipa orphans, not few great men gave after the republic.

Then arrived at Callao, entered the Count of San Isidro, the first ship of the Company the Philippines
and to see the great development of trade within five years of government Croix, simply enter
the import up to forty-two million pesos and Thirty-six export.

State revenues amounted to just over four and a half million, and expenditures did not exceed this
figure, seeing for the first and only time with us made the phenomenon of equilibrium in the
budget. Truth is that to achieve this, he turned the viceroy to the system of economies, reducing
employees, cutting wages, licensing Soria battalions and Extremadura and reducing its escort
to the third part of the force that kept his predecessors since Amat.

The dispute between the Marquis de Lara, Mayor Huamanga, and Mr. López Sánchez, bishop of the
diocese, was the stumbling block of the time. His Lordship, shedding of gentle priest, left his bile
overflowing to the point of slapping the clerk real notifying it of an order. The trial ended,
an angry rebuff to prelate, by decision of the Council of the Indies.

Lorente, in his History, speaks of an event that bears some resemblance to the process the false
nuncio in Portugal. "A poor Galician - he says - he had been in kind of soldier and exercised
after the peddler unprofitable offices and furniture broker, charged
family, needs and years, it was agreed that the natural child of a
brother of the Cardinal Patriarch President of the Council of Castile,
and to exploit the stupidity of the rich, he pretended to receive
king's letters and other exalted personages, which was answered by
a religious de la Merced.

The fraud could not be more rude, and yet she cheated several people. Discovered the fraud
and threatened with torture, had to declare everything. His considered as a crime farce of state,
and sentenced to extenuating circumstances came ten years in prison, being sent to Spain, starting
on record, his accomplice the religious. "

Don Hipólito Unanue sage with the pseudonym of scholars wrote articles Aristeo the famous Peruvian
Mercury, the eloquent Mercy Brother Jerome Cipriano Calatayud, who signed his writings in the
same paper with the name of Sofronio, the eminent physician Dávalos,
so enhanced by the University of Montpellier, the Rodriguez de Mendoza
cleric called for his Bacon vast science of Peru and that for thirty
years was rector of San Carlos, the poet Andalusian Terrall and Landa,
and other less enlightened men were the gathering of Excellency, who,
despite his learning and reputation as intelligent circle, gave strict
orders to prevent the country were introduced in the works of the
Encyclopedists.

The viceroy, as caustic and passionate libertine poet of riddles, could not bear the religious
of St. Augustine Fray Juan Alcedo bring him personally and recommend the reading of the manuscript.
Was this a satire on middle lines on the behavior of Spanish in America. His Excellency called the
claim of contempt of his person, and poor son of Apollo was banished
to the metropolis as a warning to priests and poets gossips of slops.

The Chevalier de Croix sailed for Spain on April 7, 1790, and died
in Madrid in 1791 shortly after his arrival in the country.

III

Are there eggs? - In the other corner for them.

(People).

Well, gentlemen, as I wrote the summary of the administrative history of the ruling, not leave
in the pipeline, it relates to excellence, the origin of a game you
know all the boys of Lima.

Nothing will put my case, that man is true companion La Joke [3] that made me the story that
you are going to read.

This is the case that the most excellent Don Teodoro de Croix had the habit of daily lunch four
fresh eggs boiled hot, and it was on this point so delicate, that
the Butler, Julian de Cordova and Soriano, was in charge of choosing
and buying himself the eggs every morning.

But when the viceroy was delicate, the butler took the cansera and greed to the point to haggle
with store owners to save a piquillo in buying, but at the same time
that this attempt had to choose eggs larger and heavier, for whose
consideration wearing a ring and also put the eggs in the balance.

If an egg passing through the ring weighed a dram or less than another, let him.

Both came to annoy the corner store owners Archbishop's Palace corner, corner Blankets and corner
of the Jews, who found them one day council meeting for choose balancer, the conversation went
on the foreman Don Julian de Cordova and Soriano, and the aforementioned
store owners agreed not to sell more eggs.

The day after the agreement Julian presented himself in one of the
grocery stores, and the waiter said: - There are no eggs, Don Julian.

Go to its mercy to the other corner for them.

Butler received the same answer in all four corners, and had to go further to make your purchase.
After a short time, the store owners of eight blocks around the square
cominero were bored of Don Julian and adopted the same arrangement
of his four comrades.

There were those who tell the viceroy's jogging and troubles of his butler to get eggs fresh,
and a day that was his excellence in a good mood he said:

- Julian, now where do you buy eggs?

- At the corner of San Andres.

- Well, tomorrow you will go to the other corner for them.

- Segurito, sir, and must arrive day have to go look at Jetafe.

Spot the source of the childish game of the eggs, it seems to me that
I can leave in peace the viceroy and continue the tradition.

IV

Proverb says that the mule and patience fatigued if there is trouble,
and so we think the love. Aquilino Benedicta and were so quick that
six months after the escape, heartthrob weary French were dismissed,
that is, without a Abur and there is the cheese that the mice eat
lunch, and went to find his humanity in the Cerro de Pasco, mineral
buoyant at the time. Benedicta spent days and weeks awaiting the return
of smoke, which is the same, the ungrateful that left him more naked
than lock, until, convinced of her Unfortunately, he decided not to
return to the home of her aunt, but renting a mezzanine in the street
Alameda.

In his new abode was for other mysterious existence of our
kitty. Enclosed living, and not enter into relations with the neighborhood.
Sunday went to mass at dawn, buying their supplies for the week and
not step on the road again until Thursday evening, to deliver and
receive work. Benedicta was a seamstress for the Marquise de Sotoflorido
with salary of eight dollars a week.

But it was withdrawn Benedicta's
life and as much as to leave the face rebujos the folds of the mantle,
it should not seem like the sack of straw covered with a neighbor
of the fourth tine, who gave the flower where the peeping, firing
it at close range a few chicoleos, intermingled with sighs, which
can irritate a stone statue berroqueña.  I have
been told that some churches pay their singers more than their preachers, which shows that
they have some idea of the value of good art.  Why not go a step further and preach through
a play?  This does not mean that there should be no fun but that the moral should be well thrust
home.  I have heard of preachers who make jokes while preaching, so that it should not be so
very difficult to act interesting sermons which would elevate, even if they did not amuse.
People who went to church to see a theater would not expect the same entertainment as those
who go to the theater simply for a laugh.

In China we do not expend as much energy as Americans and Europeans in trying to make other
people good.  We try to be good ourselves and believe that our good example, like a pure fragrance,
will influence others to be likewise.  We think practice is as good as precept, and, if I may
say so without being supposed to be critical of a race different from my own, the thought has
sometimes suggested itself to me that Americans are so intent on doing good to others, and
on making others good, that they accomplish less than they would if their actions and intentions
were less direct and obvious.  I cannot here explain all I mean, but if my readers will study
what Li Yu and Chuang Tsz have to say about "Spontaneity" and "Not Interfering", I think they
will understand my thought.  The theater, as I have already said, was in several countries
religious in its origin; why not use it to elevate people indirectly?  The ultimate effect,
because more natural, might be better and truer than more direct persuasion.  Pulpit appeals,
I am given to understand, are sometimes very personal.

Since writing the above I have seen a newspaper notice of a dramatic performance in the Ethical
Church, Queen's Road, Bayswater, London. The Ethical Church believes "in everything that makes
life sweet and human" and the management state that they believe--"the best trend of dramatic
opinion to-day points not only to the transformation of theaters into centers of social enlightenment
and moral elevation, but also to the transformation of the churches into centers for the imaginative
presentation, by means of all the arts combined, of the deeper truths and meanings of life."
Personally, I do not know anything about this society, but surely there is nothing out of harmony
with Christianity in these professions, and I am glad to find here an alliance between the
two greatest factors in the development of Western thought and culture--the church and the
theater.  The newspaper article to which I have referred was describing the "old morality play,
Everyman" which had been performed in the church.  The visitor who was somewhat critical, and
apparently unused to seeing the theater in a church, wrote of the performance thus: "Both the
music and the dressing of the play were perfect, and from the moment that Death entered clad
in blue stuff with immense blue wings upon his shoulders, and the trump in his hand, and stopped
Everyman, a gorgeous figure in crimson robes and jewelled turban, with the question, 'Who goes
so gaily by?' the play was performed with an impressiveness that never faltered.

"The heaviest burden, of course, falls on Everyman, and the artist who played this part seemed
to me, though I am no dramatic critic, to have caught the atmosphere and the spirit of the
play.  His performance, indeed, was very wonderful from the moment when he offers Death a thousand
boons if only the dread summons may be delayed, to that final tense scene, when, stripped of
his outer robe, he says his closing prayers, hesitates for a moment to turn back, though the
dread angel is there by his side, and then follows the beckoning hand of Good Deeds, a figure
splendidly robed in flowing draperies of crimson and with a wonderfully expressive mobile face.

"At the conclusion of the play Dr. Stanton Colt addressed a few words to the enthusiastic audience,
'Forsake thy pride, for it will profit thee nothing,' he quoted, 'If we could but remember
this more carefully and also the fact that nothing save our good deeds shall ever go with us
into that other World, surely it would help us to a holier and better life.  Earthly things
have their place and should have a due regard paid to them, but we must not forget the jewel
of our souls.'"

I have, of course, heard of the "Passion Play" at Oberammergau in Germany where the life of
Jesus Christ is periodically represented on the stage, but I say nothing about this, for, so
far as I know, it is not performed in America, and I have not seen it; but I may note in passing
that in China theaters are generally associated with the gods in the temples, and that the
moral the play is meant to teach is always well driven home into the minds of the audience.
We have not, however, ventured to introduce any of our sages to theater audiences.

The theater in China is a much simpler affair than in America.  The residents in a locality
unite and erect a large stage of bamboo and matting, the bamboo poles are tied with strips
of rattan, and all the material of the stage, excepting the rattan, can be used over again
when it is taken down.  Most of the audience stand in front of the stage and in the open air,
the theater generally being in front of the temple; and the play, which often occupies three
or four days, is often performed in honor of the god's birthday.  There is no curtain, and
there are no stage accessories.  The audience is thus enabled to concentrate its whole attention
on the acting.  Female parts are played by men, and everything is beautifully simple.  There
is no attempt to produce such elaborate effects as I have seen in the West, and of course nothing
at all resembling the pantomime, which frequently requires mechanical arts.  A newspaper paragraph
caught my eye while thinking of this subject.  I reproduce it.

"The Century Theater in New York City has special apparatus for producing wind effects, thunder
and lightning simultaneously.  The wind machine consists of a drum with slats which are rotated
over an apron of corded silk, which produces the whistling sound of wind; the lightning is
produced by powdered magnesium electrically ignited; thunder is simulated by rolling a thousand
pounds of stone, junk and chain down a chute ending in an iron plate, followed by half-a-dozen
cannon balls and supplemented by the deafening notes of a thunder drum."

Although, however, Chinese play-goers do not demand the expensive outfits and stage sceneries
of the West, I must note here that not even on the American stage have I seen such gorgeous
costumes, or robes of so rich a hue and displaying such glittering gold ornaments and graceful
feathers, as I have seen on the simple Chinese stage I have just described.  Western fashions
are having a tendency in our ports and larger cities to modify some things that I have stated
about Chinese theatrical performances, but the point I wish especially to impress on my readers
is that theatrical performances in China, while amusing and interesting, are seldom melodramatic,
and as I look back on my experiences in the United States, I cannot but think that the good
people there are making a mistake in not utilizing the human natural love for excitement and
the drama as a subsidiary moral investment. And, of course, all I have said of theaters applies
with equal force to moving-picture shows.

Chapter 15.  Opera and Musical Entertainments

Opera is a form of entertainment which, though very popular in America and England, does not
appeal to me.  I know that those who are fond of music love to attend it, and that the boxes
in an opera house are generally engaged by the fashionable set for the whole season beforehand.
I have seen members of the "four hundred" in their boxes in a New York opera house; they have
been distinguished by their magnificent toilettes and brilliant jewelry; but I have been thinking
of the Chinese drama, which, like the old Greek play, is also based on music, and Chinese music
with its soft and plaintive airs is a very different thing from the music of grand opera. 
Chinese music could not be represented on Western instruments, the intervals between the notes
being different.  Chinese singing is generally "recitative" accompanied by long notes, broken,
or sudden chords from the orchestra.  It differs widely from Western music, but its effects
are wonderful.  One of our writers has thus described music he once heard:  "Softly, as the
murmur of whispered words; now loud and soft together, like the patter of pearls and pearlets
dropping upon a marble dish.  Or liquid, like the warbling of the mango-bird in the bush; trickling
like the streamlet on its downward course.  And then like the torrent, stilled by the grip
of frost, so for a moment was the music lulled, in a passion too deep for words." That this
famous description of the effects of music which I have borrowed from Mr. Dyer Ball's "Things
Chinese" is not exaggerated, anyone who knows China may confirm by personal observation of
the keen enjoyment an unlearned, common day laborer will find in playing a single lute all
by himself for hours beneath the moon on a warm summer evening, with no one listening but the
trees and the flitting insects; but it requires a practised ear to appreciate singing and a
good voice. On one occasion I went to an opera house in London to hear the world-renowned Madame
Patti.  The place was so crowded, and the atmosphere so close, that I felt very uncomfortable
and I am ashamed to acknowledge that I had to leave before she had finished.  If I had been
educated to appreciate that sort of music no doubt I would have comprehended her singing better,
and, however uncomfortable, I should no doubt have remained to the end of the entertainment.

While writing this chapter it happened that the following news from New York was published
in the local papers in Shanghai.  It should be interesting to my readers, especially to those
who are lovers of music. Up and down and cupped her voice as an accomplished artist; his
hands were trembling at the chest, waving in the air and bent his spine but was saying anything natural
and comment, only because Castelar and Moreno Nieto did in pathetic passages, often the periods
ended with the words "court of history "," indeclinables laws of progress "or" the emancipation
of peoples' opening much and of peoples, as was the fashion then.

They did not have opportunity to be enthralled by the throaty, vibrant melodies--at once so
lovingly seductive and harshly compelling--by which Chinese poets and lovers have revealed
their thoughts and won their quest for centuries.  The stirring tom-tom, if not the ragtime
which sets the occidental capering to-day, was common to the Chinese three or four hundred
years ago.  They heard it from the wild Tartars and Mongols--heard it and rejected it, because
it was primitive, untamed, and not to be compared with their own carefully controlled melodies.
Mr. Emerson Whithorne, the famous British composer, who is an authority on oriental music,
made this statement to the London music lovers last week:

"'The popularity of Chinese music is still in its childhood.  From now on it will grow rapidly.
Chinese music has no literature, as we understand that term, but none can say that it has not
most captivating melodies.  To the artistic temperament, in particular, it appeals enormously,
and well-known artists--musicians, painters, and so on--say that it affects them in quite an
extraordinary way.'"

Chinese music from an occidental standpoint has been unjustly described as "clashing cymbals,
twanging guitars, harsh flageolets, and shrill flutes, ear-splitting and headache-producing
to the foreigner." Such general condemnation shows deplorable ignorance.[2] The writer had
apparently never attended an official service in honor of Confucius, held biennially during
the whole of the Ching dynasty at 3 A.M.  The "stone chimes", consisting of sonorous stones
varying in tone and hanging in frames, which were played on those solemn occasions, have a
haunting melody such as can be heard nowhere else.  China, I believe, is the only country that
has produced music from stones.  It is naturally gratifying to me to hear that Chinese airs
are now having a vogue in London, and that they will soon be heard in New York.  It will take
some little time for Westerners to learn to listen intelligently to our melodies which, being
always in unison, in one key and in one movement, are apt at first to sound as wearisome and
monotonous as Madame Patti's complicated notes did to me, but when they understand them they
will have found a new delight in life.

Although we Chinese do not divide our plays into comedies and tragedies there is frequently
a good deal of humor on the Chinese stage; yet we have nothing in China corresponding to the
popular musical comedy of the West.  A musical comedy is really a series of vaudeville performances
strung together by the feeblest of plots.  The essence seems to be catchy songs, pretty dances,
and comic dialogue.  The plot is apparently immaterial, its only excuse for existence being
to give a certain order of sequence to the aforesaid songs, dances, and dialogues.  That, indeed,
is the only object for the playwright's introducing any plot at all, hence he does not much
care whether it is logical or even within the bounds of probability.  The play-goers, I think,
care even less.  They go to hear the songs, see the dances, laugh at the dialogues, and indulge
in frivolous frivolities; what do they want with a plot, much less a moral?  Chinese vaudeville
takes the form of clever tumbling tricks which I think are much preferable to the sensuous,
curious, and self-revealing dances one sees in the West.

Although musical comedy, or, more properly speaking, musical farce, is becoming more and more
popular in both Europe and America it is also becoming proportionately more farcical; although
in many theaters it is staged as often as the more serious drama, in some having exclusive
dominion; and although theater managers find that these plays draw bigger crowds and fill their
houses better than any other, in the large cities running for over a year, I cannot help regarding
this feature of theatrical life as so much theatrical chaos.  It lacks culture, and is sometimes
both bizarre and neurotic.  I do not object to patter, smart give and take, in which the comical
angles of life are exposed, if it is brilliant; neither have I anything to say against light
comedy in which the ridiculous side of things is portrayed.  This sort of entertainment may
help men who have spent a busy day, crowded with anxious moments, and weighted with serious
responsibilities, but exhibitions which make men on their way home talk not of art, or of music,
or of wit, but of "the little girl who wore a little black net" are distinctly to be condemned.
Even the class who think it waste of time to think, and who go to the theater only to "laugh
awfully", are not helped by this sort of entertainment.  Such songs as the following, which
I have culled from the 'Play Pictorial', a monthly published in London, must in time pall the
taste of even the shallow-minded.

    "Can't you spare a glance?
    Have we got a chance?
    You've got a knowing pair of eyes;
    When it's 2 to 1
    It isn't much fun,"
    This is what she soon replies:

    "Oh, won't you buy a race-card,
    And take a tip from me?
    If you want to find a winner,
    It's easy as can be
    When the Cupid stakes are starting,
    Your heads are all awhirl,
    And my tip to-day
    Is a bit each way
    On the race-card girl."

Yet this, apparently, is the sort of thing which appeals to the modern American who wants amusement
of the lightest kind, amusement which appeals to the eye and ear with the lightest possible
tax on his already over-burdened brain.  He certainly cannot complain that his wishes have
not been faithfully fulfilled.  It may be due to my ignorance of English, but the song I have
just quoted seems to me silly, and I do not think any "ragtime music" could make it worth singing.
Of course many songs and plays in the music halls are such as afford innocent mirth, but it
has to be confessed that there are other things of a different type which it is not wise for
respectable families to take the young to see.  I would not like to say all I think of this
feature of Western civilization, but I may quote an Englishman without giving offense.  Writing
in the 'Metropolitan Magazine', Louis Sherwin says:  "There is not a doubt that the so-called
'high-brow dancer' has had a lot to do with the bare-legged epidemic that rages upon the comic-opera
stage to-day.  Nothing could be further removed from musical comedy than the art of such women
as Isadora Duncan and Maude Allen.  To inform Miss Duncan that she has been the means of making
nudity popular in musical farce would beyond question incur the lady's very reasonable wrath.
But it is none the less true.  When the bare-legged classic dancer made her appearance in opera
houses, and on concert platforms with symphony orchestras, it was the cue for every chorus
girl with an ambition to undress in public.  First of all we had a plague of Salomes.  Then
the musical comedy producers, following their usual custom of religiously avoiding anything
original, began to send the pony ballets and soubrettes on the stages without their hosiery
and with their knees clad in nothing but a coat of whitewash (sometimes they even forgot to
put on the whitewash, and then the sight was horrible).  The human form divine, with few exceptions,
is a devilish spectacle unless it is properly made up.  Some twenty years from now managers
will discover what audiences found out months ago, that a chorus girl's bare leg is infinitely
less beautiful than the same leg when duly disguised by petticoats and things."

[1] In his discussion of actors, Wu Tingfang does not seem to be aware that the idealization
of actors in the West is comparatively recent, and that historically, and even now in some
parts of society, actors and the acting profession have been looked down upon in the West for
many of the same reasons he gives for the same phenomenon in China.--A. R. L., 1996.

[2] Wu Tingfang is quite correct to deplore this statement as a description of Chinese music.
However, in all fairness, it is an accurate description of how a Western ear first hears CERTAIN
types of Chinese music.  After successive hearings this impression will fly away, but until
then CERTAIN types are reminiscent of two alley-cats fighting in a garbage can.  This is not
meant as a degrading comment, any more so than Wu Tingfang's comments on opera.  Some music
is an acquired taste, and after acquirement, its beauty becomes not only recognizable but inescapable.
Certain other types of Chinese music can easily be appreciated on the first hearing.--A. R.
L., 1996.

Chapter 16.  Conjuring and Circuses

After what I have said as to the position of the actor in China my readers will not be surprised
at my saying that the performance of a conjuror should not be encouraged.  What pleasure can
there be in being tricked?  It may be a great display of dexterity to turn water into wine,
to seem to cut off a person's head, to appear to swallow swords, to escape from locked handcuffs,
and to perform the various cabinet tricks, but cleverness does not alter the fact that after
all it is only deception cunningly contrived and performed in such a way as to evade discovery.
It appears right to many because it is called "legerdemain" and "conjuring" but in reality
it is exactly the same thing as that by which the successful card-sharper strips his victims,
viz., such quickness of hand that the eye is deceived.  Should we encourage such artful devices?
History tells many stories as to the way in which people have been kept in superstitious bondage
by illusions and magic, and if it be now held to be right to deceive for fun how can it be
held to have been wrong to deceive for religion? Those who made the people believe through
practising deception doubtless believed the trick to be less harmful than unbelief.  I contend,
therefore, that people who go to see conjuring performances derive no good from them, but that,
on the contrary, they are apt to be impressed with the idea that to practise deception is to
show praiseworthy skill.  It is strange how many people pay money to others to deceive them.
More than ever before, people to-day actually enjoy being cheated.  If the tricks were clumsily
devised and easily detected there would be no attraction, but the cleverer and more puzzling
the trick the more eagerly people flock to see it.

Christian preachers and moralists could do well to take up this matter and discourage people
from frequenting the exhibitions of tricksters. There are doubtless many laws in nature yet
undiscovered, and a few persons undoubtedly possess abnormal powers.  This makes the cultivation
of the love of trickery the more dangerous.  It prevents the truth from being perceived.  It
enables charlatans to find dupes, and causes the real magician to be applauded as a legerdemainist.
This is what the New Testament tells us happened in the case of Jesus Christ.  His miracles
failed to convince because the people had for a long time loved those who could deceive them
cleverly.[1]  The people said to him, "Thou hast a devil," and others warned them after his
death saying, "That deceiver said while he was yet alive 'After three days I will rise again.'"
When people are taught not only to marvel at the marvelous but to be indifferent to its falsehoods
they lose the power of discrimination, and are apt to take the true for the false, the real
for the unreal.

For an evening's healthy enjoyment I believe a circus is as good a place as can be found anywhere.
The air there is not close and vitiated as in a theater; you can spend two or three hours comfortably
without inhaling noxious atmospheres.  It is interesting to note that the circus is perhaps
the only form of ancient entertainment which has retained something of its pristine simplicity.
To-day, as in the old Roman circuses, tiers of seats run round the course, which in the larger
circuses is still in the form of an ellipse, with its vertical axis, where the horses and performers
enter, cut away. Do you know who was the Lima the whiteness
of your teeth? Al raicero. As the jasmine, this was another industrious street selling certain
real soft and juicy, that girls were entertained in biting rubbing on the teeth.

It seems a joke, but the industry fell. There are no jasmine or raiceros, and it is a pity,
that to any, that they would fall over a municipal contribution to the games on the shaft, these
times when even the dogs pay their share to exercise the right to bark. And, with permission
of you have also eclipsed the pajuelero or seller of sulfur sticks, the pot tips or seller of
cigarettes, and other industrious anticuchero.

Digressions aside, and return to Mariquita.

The Lima of yore knew no barber or an occasional chestnut curls but flown in days of big ring
or hot irons or foil, nor did he ever aceitillo, balms, glycerin
and hair pomades.

The water of God and St. was over, and the scalps were the good, the better.

But girls today say that water rots the hair root, and not in the
mood to build brawl with them holding the contrary.

Drunkards also say they prefer liquor, because water breeding frogs and bugs.

Mariquita had his devil in his mop of hair.

His pride was wearing two luxurious tresses that, Zorrilla said painting the beauty of Eve

The average size foot sole.

One night the moon was the Bridge Mariquita a glance at it, citing a smile that, saddled with
a dig at the past, when suddenly a man took her by the waist, took a sharp knife, and zis!
Wham, within no time you sliced a braid.

Cries and confusion.

A Ladybug he fell into a tantrum, people ran away, was closing gates,
palace and the news came that some pirates had come to the cheetah
silence the mouth of the river and took the city by surprise.

In conclusion, the girl was mocha, and not make way to being called the bald Mariquita, is called
good life, went into a pious and not talk about it again.

II

How to braid her hair was the reason that Peru had an artistic glory

The person who, by tantrum, had shorn Mariquita was a young man of twenty years, son of a Spanish
and an Indian. Baltasar was called Hawk. His father had left some cuartejos, but the boy, head reel
with the aforementioned female, was given to spend up to saw the bottom of the bag, which certainly
could not be lasting as the five coins John Wait-in-God, aka the
Wandering Jew.

Baltasar godfather was the guardian of San Francisco, monk of many bells and circumstances who, while
professing great love to godson, took a three-hour sermon by learning the reason the young man brought
into troubles. The mayor claimed crime in the early days the person of the offender, but that
was Mariquita meditate, but hang your enemy why not recover the loss
had braid, or, more likely, that the influence of his reverence reached
to turn their noses at justice, the truth is that the authority is
not stressed Article of extradition.

Baltasar so distracted by his enforced monastic life, began to carve out a piece of wood and make it
the busts of the Virgin, the baby Jesus, the Three Kings, and finally, all accessories mystery
of Bethlehem. Although the figures were small, the whole was lucidísimo, and visitors to the
guardian propagated that it was an artistic wonder. Encouraged by the praise, Gavilan was devoted
to making life-size images, not only wood, but stone Huamanga, some of which exist in various churches
in Lima.

Most applauded the work of the artist was a painful, we do not know if it still has in San
Francisco.

The Viceroy Villagarcía, news of the merit of the sculptor, wanted personally convinced, and
one morning went to the cell converted into a workshop.

Your Excellency, declaring that the palace had fallen short in praise, chatted familiarly with
the artist, and he, encouraged by the friendliness of the viceroy, he said it bored him the closure,
which was purged fed its absence in three years of convent life,
and he longed wide field of freedom.

The Marquis scratched the tip of the ear, and replied that society needed relief, and that since
the bridge had given the scandal, it was necessary in the Bridge shows a work whose merit
hiciese forget the lack of man to admire the artist's genius.

And with that, Your Honor turned on his heel and took the road the
door.

Five months later, in 1738, we celebrated in Lima, with solemn pomp and lavish festivities placement
on the arch of the Bridge of the equestrian statue of Felipe V.

In the description of these parties have read, there are important
praise is taxed the artist.

Unfortunately for his glory, not his work survived, for in the famous earthquake 1746, the collapse
of a portion of the arch, the statue fell to the ground.

And here we enter a curious coincidence. Almost at once fell from his pedestal bust of the monarch,
in Lima recibióse news of the death of Felipe V as a result of lightning
stroke, which is as it were an earthquake in the body.

III

Of how a sculpture given to the sculptor's death

The Augustinian fathers brought forth, until shortly after 1824, the famous procession Thursday
Santo, which ended after midnight with no little commotion, fuss of old and escape girls. More than
twenty were the poles that made up the procession, and the first
one was a perfect picture of Death with his scythe and other necessities,
superb work of the artist Baltazar Gavilán.

The day gave the last Hawk to the skeleton hand went to his studio and many religious characters
of the country, earning enthusiastic and unanimous approval on good job performance. The artist reached
a new triumph.

Balthasar, from the time he lived in exile in San Francisco, was delivered with passion the cult of
Bacchus, and it is known that his best effigies carved in a complete
state of intoxication.

I recently read a great article about Edgar Poe and Alfred de Musset, entitled Alcoholism in literature.
Baltasar can give you a topic for another letter titled Alcoholism
in the fine arts.

Alcohol retempering the spirit and the body of the artist, was the
nymph Egeria, for speak.

Idea and strength, feeling and truth, everything was Baltasar at the bottom of a glass.

To celebrate the successful completion of the work entrusted to the Augustinians, and went Baltasar
with their friends over bocce ball and took a Turkish sovereign. Holding onto walls could, at
ten o'clock at night, returning to his studio, took flint link and straw, and lighting a tallow
candle threw clothes on the bed.

At midnight he woke up. The dim light gave off a strange reflection on the skeleton placed
at the foot of the bed. The grim reaper's scythe seemed built on Balthazar.

Appalled, and under the stultifying influence of alcohol, refused to recognize the work of his
hands. Gave horrible screams, and neighbors going understood, by the incoherence of his words,
the hallucination that was the victim.

The great Peruvian sculptor died insane on the same day that ended the skeleton, whose merit
art still speak with great appreciation the people in the early years of independence, attended
the procession of Holy Thursday.

OF ASTA AND REJON

I suppose, reader, that age you have spoken with contemporary Pezuela
Viceroy, and speaking to a daughter of Eve, courageous and manly,
I have heard this phrase: You are female horn and spear.

What if you've heard the phrase? Then there is the origin of it, just as I have been referred
by a descendant of the protagonist.

I

In one house in the Rue de Aparicio lived for years in 1760 Mrs. Dona Feliciana Chaves Mesia.

Dona
Feliciana was what was called a woman of her house and, despite being rich to point out the
sun carved silverware and bags of hard dollars, not thinking to primp,
but to increase its flow.

Owns a farm in nearby valleys the city and the bakery Serrano, was
in the backyard two vast warehouses which sold for more flour, sugar,
oil and other commodities for general consumption.

Those were the days! In terms of work our grandmothers were the devil's Roman and when a man married
in the joint was not only complementary rib the individual, but a
commercial partner that it saved the expense of dependents.

Dona Feliciana's husband three years ago that he went to Ica to establish a branch of Lima's house,
leaving the lady in front of many business operations, and as if God is pleased to put his
blessing on the Lima working in business terms hand was placed a
gain crazy.

But not everything is cakes and fancy bread in this vale of tears,
and when I was more confident Dona Feliciana that her husband thought
of nothing but win pelucones, received a letter Ica that the reported
anonymously, with semi-colons, of how the Lord Messiah had its chichisbeo,
and how he spent the cake and eat it with the subject, and that the
above was not worth an icicle not reached the bottom of the shoe of
Dona Feliciana, although it retained enough jamona palatable and not
worthy of the rogue of her husband hiciese squeamish.

He said the chicken of a tale: - Place egg and do not eat wheat, that's not me.

The anonymous bump up in the spirit of the lady, and got to think
about infidelity Mr Mesia, and so much buzzed in his soul the gadfly
of jealousy, he decided to take flight, the neck to drop you catch
him in the perjury and gatuperio.

But the case was to go in the time, to Ica spent many days and ran many dangers, and the holds
no could be closed or the mercy of a dependent, resolvióse to sell, commission charged a Spanish
called Vilches, who was her friend and her man to be trusted.

At that time the transactions were very speedy, as it is unusual that many formulas, and before
forty-eight hours Dona Feliciana saw come through the doors of his
house some bags of a thousand.

Ms. Vilches gave one in return for their activity and Travel freed from hindrances enlisted for
three days later.

II

Dona Feliciana That night began their accounts and decided that God
just daybreak, was deposit their money and goods in the house of a
merchant proverbial honesty.

But his jealous ruminations on the one hand, and secondly their calculations rentier, sleep
it away, and it had no small fortune.

It was about two o'clock, when cats and thieves, when he felt a slight,
cautious sound of footsteps in the backyard.

He listened and was convinced that a door that in his bedroom were
not applying what technicality of pharmacy, but of the children Caco,
was then called a sucker.

This experiment was open through burning a hole in the wood.

Doña Feliciana promptly jumped out of bed, and a corner of the room took a pole or rod stick
to which a pointed end adapted rejoncillo iron.

This was the weapon that used to take the field all landowners.

Thus forewarned, our heroine is laid in ambush behind the door. Just let the cup was expeditious
a big hole, he looked out a head.

Doña Feliciana, who lives without giving him rejoncillo stabbed in the neck.

The thief gave a cry of death, and his companions set foot on the wall. Then Mrs. he cried,
alborotóse the neighborhood, went the round, and found dying universal surprise the honest Vilches,
who sang background and colleagues reported their company.

III

All languages ​​were Dona Feliciana courage, and in Lima did not talk about something else. Had there
been newspapers, have set chronic loud bass drum on the local.

The fame of his exploit had preceded Ica, where he arrived one morning, armed with spear and spear,
and doomed to her husband told her:

- A Lima, sir, and your home
if you want to do another little person in both I have done in the
de Vilches, and leave it as not to serve or radish seeds.

The Mesia trembled like quicksilver, he had saddled the mule and, without hesitation or mister,
obeyed precept.

Since then she wore pants in the house, and he was the most faithful of husbands stories that mention
the sacred and profane, as I knew it was the fleece in the first
trip where you get it madam.

Long story is to have a woman companion
of horn and spear.

MAYOR'S ARGUMENTS

I

It seems that one morning
he got Carlos III with mother's mood, and frankly that there was reason
embittering fed to the spirit of the monarch. His Majesty had dreamed
that the royal coffers ran the risk of being as God loves the souls,
ie clean, because his subjects Americas walked one, if not to provide
them slackers.

- Carrampempe! Well, I do not have to spend far as
Henry the Sufferer that, attaching be king, and the stiff, arrived
day had no solid thing to put under their noses, and pawned his overcoat
for the cook could flavor a garlic soup and a piece of boar smoking.
I called Don Jose Antonio.

And Don Jose Antonio de Areche, Council
of Indies and gentlemen of the distinguished Order Carlos III, soon
to appear before the King, and spoke with him at length about the
atrenzos the royal treasury. And following the conversation between
lord and vassal, we fell as rain in these kingdoms of Peru, in 1777
and the title of Inspector-General, a soap opera of fines.

The visitor,
soon come to Lima, he became convinced that the land was very rich
and the committee and tasty porridge. Item guessed it, without being
a witch, that were tame genius Peruleros and, therefore, likely to
bear much saddle his lordship would to throw us in tow. And thought
and deed, and without beating about the algórgoras or brujoleos, we
came to the lump and ordered taxes, and tight, and rates and what
not henpecked husband. God forgive me, but have that, in anticipation
of a wonderful town these days, was given a jolt of establish canine
contribution, not excepting the dog it San Roque, nor to Santo Domingo,
or the San Lazaro, or the Santa Margarita, as I gather, were saints
mutts fans.

But as the cord stretched out in the end, came the burst,
and burst and all hell broke tremendous. The visitor was stubborn,
did not relent and continued to follow an inch and a guitar pins others.
And there was that of zambomba and slaughter, at gallows, and jicarazo,
which ... Go! we take by special care and God bless you have not eaten
bread in that mess century. Finally the end, rogues taxes remained
and, grunting and grumbling, there's pay anyone taking law in their
neck, no ambitions put in intimate relationships with the executioner. If there be, the balance is rather in favor of the latter, for the
Thug at least had the sanction of religion, while the hunter has nothing to excuse his cruelty
beyond the lust of killing.  I do not understand why the humane societies, such as "The Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals", are so supine in regard to these practices.  The
Chinese are frequently accused of being cruel to animals, but I think that those who are living
in glass houses should not throw stones.

In this connection I would remark that birds are shot not only for pleasure and for their flesh,
but in some cases for their plumage, and women who wear hats adorned with birds' feathers,
do, though indirectly, encourage the slaughter of the innocent.  Once a Chinese was arrested
by the police in Hongkong for cruelty to a rat.  It appeared that the rat had committed great
havoc in his household, stealing and damaging various articles of food; when at last it was
caught the man nailed its feet to a board, as a warning to other rats. For this he was brought
before the English Magistrate, who imposed a penalty of ten dollars.  He was astonished, and
pleaded that the rat deserved death, on account of the serious havoc committed in his house.
The Magistrate told him that he ought to have instantly killed the rat, and not to have tortured
it. But now shameful
and carefully hidden poverty had taught him the value of money.

Mr. Cuadros, always ignorant of the true situation of the house, terribly upset Dona Manuela. Wanted
to appear friendly, and this made offers that were sarcasm. He is responsible for the purchase
of the horse. How it would be cheaper, for a Shiny beast as beautiful as that would only pay about
three thousand. He knew the most famous horse-dealers.  It certainly can find no justification in any of the great world religions, and not
even the British, or the Germans, who idolize soldiers, would immortalize a man simply because
he was a hunter.  From whatever point the subject be viewed it seems undeniable that hunting
is only a survival of savagery.

[1] E. B., 9th ed., vol. 33, p. 649.

