UNITARIANISM

W.G. TARRANT

LONDON

1912

CONTENTS

INTRODUCTION

  Some Terms explained

THE EARLIER MOVEMENT IN ENGLAND:

  i. The Unitarian Martyrs
  ii. Influences Making for 'Latitude'
  iii. The Old Nonconformists
  iv. The 'Unitarian Tracts'
  v. The Old Dissent

NEW ENGLAND:

  i. Before the 'Great Awakening'
  ii. The Liberal Reaction

ENGLISH UNITARIANISM RECOGNIZED BY LAW

QUESTIONS OF INHERITANCE

MODERN UNITARIANISM:

  i. The Communities
  ii. Ideas and Tendencies
  iii. Methods and Teachings

UNITARIANS AND OTHER RELIGIOUS LIBERALS

INTRODUCTION

In certain quiet nooks of Old England, and, by contrast, in some of the busiest centres of
New England, landmarks of religious history are to be found which are not to be easily understood
by every passer-by. He is familiar with the ordinary places of worship, at least as features
in, the picture of town or village. Here is the parish church where the English episcopal order
has succeeded to the Roman; yonder is the more modern dissenting chapel, homely or ornate.
But, now and then, among the non-episcopal buildings we find what is called distinctively a
'Meeting House,' or more briefly a 'Meeting,' which may perhaps be styled 'Old,' 'New,' or
'Great'. Its architecture usually corresponds with the simplicity of its name. Plain almost
to ugliness, yet not without some degree of severe dignity, stand these old barn-like structures
of brick--occasionally of stone; bearing the mellowing touch of time, surrounded by a little
overshadowed graveyard, they often add a peculiar quaintness and solemnity to the scene. Mrs.
Gaskell has described one such in her novel Ruth, and admirers of her art should know well
that her own grave lies beside the little sanctuary she pictured so lovingly.

Sometimes, however, the surroundings of the ancient chapel are less attractive. It stands,
it may be, in some poverty-stricken corner or court of a town or city. Whatever picturesqueness
it may have had once has long since vanished. Unlovely decay, an air of desolation, symptoms
of neglect, present a mournful sight, and one wonders how much longer the poor relic will remain.
Many places of the kind have already been swept away; others have been renovated, enlarged,
and kept more worthy of their use. Not all the Meeting Houses are of one kind. Independents,
Baptists, and Friends, each possess some of them. Now and again the notice-board tells us that
this is a 'Presbyterian' place of worship, but a loyal Scot who yearns for an echo of the kirk
would be greatly surprised on finding, as he would if he entered, that the doctrine and worship
there is not Calvinistic in any shape whatever, but--Unitarian.

A similar surprise awaits the visitor to New England, it may be even a greater. For if he should
tread In the footsteps of the Pilgrim Fathers and find the 'lineal descendants' of their original
places of worship at Plymouth, Salem, or Boston, he will find Unitarians in possession. So
it is in many of the oldest towns founded by the American colonists of the seventeenth century.
In their centres the parish churches, 'First,' 'Second,' or otherwise, stand forth challenging
everybody's attention. There is no lack of self-assertion here, nothing at all like the shrinking
of the Old English Presbyterian into obscure alleys and corners. Spacious, well appointed,
and secure, these Unitarian parish churches, in the words of a popular Unitarian poet, 'look
the whole world in the face, and fear not any man.'

The object of the present brief sketch is to show how these landmarks have come to be where
they are, to trace the thoughts and fortunes of Unitarians from their rise in modern times,
to indicate their religious temper and practical aims, and to exhibit the connections of the
English-speaking Unitarians with some closely approximating groups in Europe and Asia.

Before entering upon a story which is extremely varied and comprehensive, one or two important
points must be emphasized. In the first place the reader must bear in mind that the term 'Unitarianism'
is one of popular application. It has not been chosen and imposed as sect-name by any sect-founder,
or by any authoritative assembly. There has never been a leader or a central council whose
decisions on these matters have been, accepted by Unitarians as final. Even when most closely
organized they have steadily resisted all attempts so to fix the meaning of 'Unitarianism'
as to exclude further growth of opinion. Consequently there is always room for variety of opinion
among them; and every statement of their principles and teachings must be taken as a sort of
average estimated from a survey more or less extended.

Thus the significance of Unitarianism as a feature of modern religious development cannot be
grasped apart from its history as a movement of thought. Nowhere is it more necessary than
here to reflect that to know what a thing is we must know what it has been and consider what
its future naturally involves.

Secondly, amid all the varieties of thought referred to, complicated as they are by the eager
advance of some and the clinging to survivals by others, there are two notes to be found undeniably,
if unequally, characteristic of Unitarianism. It is both rationalist and mystical. If the historian
seems more attentive to the former than to the latter, this must not be taken as indicating
their relative importance. Obviously, it is easier to record controversies than to unfold the
wealth of profound conceptions. Perhaps we may fairly suggest the true state of the case by
the mere juxtaposition of such earlier names as Socinus, Bidle, and Locke, with those of Channing,
Emerson, and Martineau; or by a reference to the earlier Unitarian hymns in contrast with those
of the later stages.

SOME TERMS EXPLAINED

A brief explanation at the outset may help the reader to follow more intelligently the history
of Unitarianism. As is well known, the chief issue between Trinitarians and Unitarians arises
in connection with the relation of Jesus Christ to God, questions concerning the Holy Spirit
being usually less discussed. There are consequential issues also, bearing upon man's nature,
atonement, salvation, and other subjects, but these call for no remark here. In its full statement,
as given for instance in the 'Athanasian Creed,' the Trinitarian dogma presents the conception
of Three 'Persons' in One God--Father, Son, and Holy Spirit--'Persons' with different: functions,
but all equal and co-eternal. The Eastern (Greek Orthodox) Church differs from the Western
(Roman Catholic) in holding that the Third Person 'proceeds' from the Father alone; the Western
adds--'and from the Son' (filioque). The full dogma as given in the 'Athanasian Creed' is not
thought to be earlier than the fifth century; debates as to the 'two natures' in Christ, and
the 'two wills,' and other abstruse points involved in the dogma, continued for centuries still.
At an earlier period discussion was carried on as to whether the Son were of the 'same substance'
(homo-ousion) or 'similar substance' (homoi-ousion) with the Father. The latter view was held
by Arius and his party at the Council of Nicaea, A.D. 325. Athanasius held the former view,
which in time, but only after many years of controversial strife and actual warfare, became
established as orthodox. The Arians regarded the Son, as a subordinate being, though still
divine. Another variety of opinion was put forth by Sabellius (c. 250 A.D.), who took the different
Persons to be so many diverse modes or manifestations of the One God. This Sabellian idea,
though officially condemned, has been often held in later times. Socinianism, so far as regards
the personality and rank of Christ, differed from Arianism, which maintained his pre-existence,
though not eternal; the Socinian doctrine being that the man Jesus was raised by God's approving
benignity to 'divine' rank, and that he thus became a fit object of Christian 'worship.' The
Humanitarian view, finally, presented Jesus as a 'mere man,' i.e. a being not essentially different
in his nature from the rest of humankind. Modern Unitarianism, however, usually avoids this
kind of phrase; 'all minds,' said Channing, 'are of one family.'

THE EARLIER MOVEMENT IN ENGLAND

I. THE UNITARIAN MARTYRS

The rise of any considerable body of opinion opposed to the cardinal dogma of orthodoxy was
preceded in England by a very strongly marked effort to secure liberty of thought, and a corresponding
plea for a broadly comprehensive religious fellowship. The culmination of this effort, is reached,
for the period first, to be reviewed, in the writings of John Locke (1632-1704). This celebrated
man, by his powerful arguments for religious toleration and his defence of the 'reasonableness'
of the Christian religion, exerted an influence of the most important kind. But we must reach
him by the path of his predecessors in the same line. The principles of liberty of thought
and the broadest religious fellowship are warmly espoused by Unitarians, and they look upon
all who have advanced these principles as in spirit related to them, however different their
respective theological conclusions may have been.

At the time of the Reformation a great deal of speculation broke forth on points hitherto closed
by the Church's authority, including the fundamental doctrine of the Trinity. But, while this
new ferment led to departures from the received opinions in many countries, especially in Poland
and the Netherlands, the Protestant leaders maintained that upon the great articles of the
creeds they were still one with Rome, and in fact they soon displayed an eagerness to stifle
heresy. Men often fail to see the logic of their own position, and many who claimed the right
to differ from Rome on points which Rome considered vital were unable to grant that others
had an equal right to differ from Luther, Calvin, or an English State Church. The outrageous
cruelty of Calvin towards the Anti-trinitarian Servetus, whom he caused to be burned at Geneva
in 1553, affords a glaring instance of this inconsistency. But a sad proof is given that, about
that time, even Anti-trinitarians themselves were not always tolerant.

Among the countries where the orthodox dogma was most freely questioned was Transylvania, adjacent
to Hungary proper.

Here the sovereign, John Sigismund, took sides with the Anti-trinitarians, and issued in 1568
an edict permitting four recognized types of doctrine and worship--Romanist, Lutheran, Calvinist,
and Unitarian. The Transylvanians were at this time largely under the influence of their Polish
brethren in the faith, who still practised the invocation of Christ. Francis David, a powerful
religious leader in Hungary, having arrived at a 'Humanitarian' view of Christ two centuries
before it was held by English Unitarians, opposed Christ-worship. In 1579, when a Catholic
had succeeded to the throne, David was denounced for an intolerable heretic by the Polish party,
and, being imprisoned, died the same year. This blot on the record has long been deplored,
and David is held in honour as a martyr by the Transylvanian Unitarian Church, which still
flourishes, and forms a third member in alliance with the Unitarians of Great Britain and America.
As, however, these Transylvanian (popularly called 'Hungarian') Unitarians had until the nineteenth
century little or no connection with the English and Americans, and have not materially affected
the development of the movement, we omit the details of their special history.

