GROWTH

OF THE

SOIL

Translated from the Norwegian of

KNUT HAMSUN

by W.W. WORSTER

[ORIGINAL TITLE "MARKENS GRØDE"]

1917

Chapter I

The long, long road over the moors and up into the forest--who trod it into being first of
all? Man, a human being, the first that came here. There was no path before he came. Afterward,
some beast or other, following the faint tracks over marsh and moorland, wearing them deeper;
after these again some Lapp gained scent of the path, and took that way from field to field,
looking to his reindeer. Without your love, the world will be a desert for me, life, loneliness fearful;
my heart, an emptiness that is filled with nothing.

"The human soul needs love, worship, believe. Heaven has punished
the pride of my soul.

Have been thrown her idols, altars, all worthy of adoration and love. In contrast, I put my worship,
my love, my faith and hope in Beatrice. She was ... my idolatry.

"The love of the unbeliever is immense. The unbeliever devoted to a negligible object full force
of love that seeks to elevate the believer to the divine ideal.

"Well, why tired? I wandered like a meek beast that has stuck in his chest a poisoned dart. At
night I wandered, the day I've been blind. I have shame that people I see. It seems to me that everyone
knows the teasing that I am a victim, my patience, my love bad paid, and will laugh at me or
going to spit in the face.

"Last night was my last resort to ridicule.

"I do not doubt.

I walked around my house, and close to four o'clock I saw a man coming
out ... mysteriously ... there.

I have eagle-eyed ... I saw him ... he was. I carried a revolver
in his pocket.

Why? If he had fired six shots you have, none would have given my enemy. I do not shoot, and
I also shook his hand. All I was convulsive.

"Also, why not confess? I think I would not be able to kill him, but finding him asleep and could
put at close range the gun barrel in his temples.

"I do not understand now but one thing. I can not bear my inexhaustible love. I can not bear the ridiculous
that I noticed. To the poetry of great pain can not draw on me because I laugh myself from my pain
and I find him funny.

"I have no other recourse, if I die no good, they look way to die soon.

"Forgive this long relief. Sorry this neat card. Be the last. Goodbye. "

Paco Ramírez was a man of some clear illustration and understanding, but he still had healthier
than clear, he was as healthy as his body was that of an athlete. Loved Paco Don Braulio, though
who else had ever thrown up ready for a shift of that had ways of
thinking that he described as tortuous and that it should be subjected
to the most convoluted and unique feelings.

Just read the letter, believed that Braulio was crazy.

I could not believe the lack of Dona Beatriz: very good opinion of her. Imagined the extent that
the person who walked jealous Braulio was the Count, who Beatriz spoke in his letter. Would
be like, Paco feared a catastrophe. Braulio thought that, or he would die, or was about to
kill, or would be Leganés. To avoid this, if it was time, he immediately en route to Madrid. Braulio
had given no sign, but he would find. If you did not come to save him, would avenge him. Paco
was with no metaphysical or discreteos. No thought or treason or murder in duels of every ceremony.
Only thought to get the love and the soul of Condesito of her lively
body punches and kicks.

With such good intentions, also anxious to see his Inesita, and hoping
to woo and fetch the scene, thirty-two hours is not sane to have received
and read lamentable letter from her desperate friend, Paco came to
this heroic and crowned villa, and without shake even the dust of
the road, after leaving the valise in a guest house and installed,
taking fourth in her, she went to the home of two beautiful sisters.

XX

As she Paco Ramírez to that household but hurriedly, offered to imagination
more vividly the difficulties of the interview should have.

In the letter from Don Braulio paragraphs remembered more sinister
and ominous, and provided some Unfortunately.

So he had noticed a contradiction in the letter that gave him so much suspect. Don Braulio
confessed at first, as was true that never used or had weapons, and
towards the end of the letter spoke of a revolver in his pocket.

Paco Ramírez Don Braulio was clear that he had bought or acquired
in those days, after the night he was in hiding at home.

Why the acquisition? What did make his hapless friend?

Paco was sure that Don Braulio not kill nor his wife nor his rival, but was afraid of attempting
his own life, and thought to avenge killing Condesito.

Paco was so strong, so calm, and was so confident that nothing seemed
easier.

As Dona Beatriz, Paco loved her like a sister and respected as a superior
being, where, but believe you are afflicted much blamed, as we believed
it was ready to forgive the guilt.

At this point understood and applauded and even blessed the weakness
or Don Braulio tenderness.

What is not explained is that Don Braulio not try to revenge Condesito
of any way to be.

In the meantime, what would he do, what to say at Dona Beatriz? After reflection, form various plans
and mentally composing several speeches, he determined to be guided by the inspiration of the
moment and improvise everything.

So it came to Don Braulio. He climbed the stairs two by two and pulled
the cord of bell.

It was nine o'clock.

Then they opened, with that frankness and readiness with which the
poor are usually open.

Barely had time to see who would open. It was found wrapped around her arms clasped him and
overwhelmed by a mouth covered her face with a flood of sound kisses.

- Good God, man! "- Said after the housekeeper Teresa, who was kissed -. How has embarnecido
in these three years!

Give glory to see you: you made a real boy. But tell me, and Don Braulio? Does it come with
you? What have you done on site? Why not write? Beatriz is the heart in her mouth.

- I want to see. "I can see it? - Paco said.

- Right now. Sign. Do you bring news of Don Braulio?

- Yes.

- Well, come.

- Is Agnes with her sister?

- Inés not up yet.

- Best - Paco said -.

I need to see Beatriz alone - added between his teeth.

Before the end of muttering the phrase, before I entered the sitting
room of Dona Beatriz, it appeared in the lobby, and friendly and tightly
grasping the hands of Paco between over and said:

- What is this?

What Braulio? Where? How can you not come? I am feeling very uneasy.

What happens, God?

What happens?

So saying, both came into the room. He loves Teresa went after them.

- Let us, Teresa.

Then will come.

I have to talk to Beatrice - Paco said.

This mystery seemed to increase the shock of the pretty girl.

He loves Teresa left the room grumbling.

Paco and Betty alone and said this:

- What mysteries are yours?

What do you say? Speech. Anything is better than the anxiety, that doubt that I have. My bad
not horrible, my misfortune will not be deeper actually what I pretend
and fantasy.

Speech. Where is my husband? What did it?

Why not come in your company?

- Your husband has gone to the scene. Evil can come with me.

Your husband has left Madrid. Here it is. Here I come to fetch him.

- It is impossible. Braulio never lies. Braulio said he was going to see. We will have occurred
some misfortune on the road. Be sick, dead, perhaps in some people's way. Braulio was to see. Braulio
not deceived me.

Paco Ramirez, who was not a man much given to circumlocution and rodeos, and also thought it
was urgent and essential to a prompt explanation, then said:

- Braulio has deceived you because you thought you fooled.

- No way - said Beatriz, red blood rising to her cheeks -. Who has invented this infamy? Who
said this madness?

- The same Braulio.

- How? When? Where you've seen?

- I have not seen. I received a letter from him.

- Give it to me. I read it.

- Will you have courage to read it?

- God give me courage for all. You give me the letter.

Paco still hesitated.

- Give me the letter - again said Beatriz.

- You shall - Paco said - but before I demand of you one thing.

-
Say, calls soon.

- You will respond honestly to what you ask, you
will declare the naked truth: not as if in answer to your brother,
but as if in answer to your own conscience as if you were in the court
of the Lord and He who will be questioned.

- Question.

Not aside. Do not stain my lips lies.

- Do you love Braulio?

- With all my heart.

- Braulio you ugly and beautiful. Braulio is old ... Do you love love?

- Braulio's soul is beautiful, the soul is immortal Braulio young. Yes, I love him love.

- Have you ever loved another man?

- Never.

- Look carefully at the bottom of your soul. Beatrice, have you ever loved another man?

- Just understand what I want to say, but not to stay a qualm. I to peer into the deepest abyss
of my mind, I will look there and make my patent most hidden thoughts, ideas vague and confusing
that I did not realize until I now.

- Say, Beatrice.

- I say I never loved but to love my husband I do not think having failed once, or with the
most fleeting thought, or the more ephemeral desire bastard.

- Is it true what you say? Do not you accuse the consciousness of the child missing?

- How do I declare impeccable? Paco, yes, conscience accuses me, but it haunts me; give me the
letter, we end. What interrogation! What a cruel delay! Have you come to kill me?

- No, Beatriz.

Tell me, however, what you are accused of consciousness?

- I'm vain, I admit. Now that I sense a misfortune, I see it is sin that I I did not think it
was.

I examine myself, I judge and condemn me. Look, Paco: I have believed a man I loved, and though
not paid for his love, I was pleased and proud that I love me. His love was in such a way restrained
by the respect that was never in words. I guess, did not see him. And I guess, not passion
itself had the lowest impurity but as ethereal feeling, immaculate, that is not love, nor
friendship, which should not be name, which is unspeakable in every language on earth, that
if you name must be in sky. What? Vanity of women.

Novels ridiculous that we forged in the imagination and certainly have no reality whatsoever. The
man who obeys me well, the man and me seen and admired, is the wisest,
the most elegant of the aristocracy of Madrid, is held for their gracious
presence, her grace, courage and even their sexual conquests.

Seeing him so exhausted me, seeing what he delighted in hearing me
talk, which celebrated my talent, which is struggling to please me
and because I had it the best concept, not deny it, my wife was very
proud of flattered.

I judged worth more, when he had inspired affection noble man.

My own vanity I moved my turn to be a concept, perhaps exaggerated,
of all his personal belongings.

The man, who also, in my opinion, I understand, was worth much more to my eyes. Gratitude to
this man in my moments of modesty, when I thought I owed it all to
my own merit, filled my heart.

Never, however, I have loved. Every night for months, talked to him
more than hours in a low voice.

Praises me, I said a thousand polite returns, but I love talking. Among he and I are tacitly these
extraordinary relationships.

Is this sin? Ah! I think yes. Now I think so. Heart tells me. Braulio is jealous. But, my God,
why did not I tell you?

Why has not complained?

I would have apologized.

I would have thousand times that she loved him. I have renewed my
vows.

I would have been terminated the insane poetry, dream story that
only satisfy my vanity.

But no: Braulio right, Braulio is delicate.

A husband should not be jealous. Should not tell his wife that suspected. It would be an indignity,
a shame he can not.

And I, stupid, blind, I have not until now understood the danger
and absurdity of my behavior.

Who knows? Maybe slanderers have understood everything in the worst way. Maybe you have besmirched
my honor and my husband's. Maybe you have had within the accuse cruelty.

Come on, Paco, you know everything.

Do not kill me. Give me the letter. Pronto! Give me the letter.

Paco, without a word, not knowing what to think of everything, not
daring to believe Beatriz lied, failed to explain how they lied so
well, and remembering, however, that the letter was evidence Braulio
almost obvious that Beatrice was guilty, he gave Finally the letter.

Beatriz unfolded it eagerly, and did not read it, devoured it.

Do not interrupted the reading, not with a sigh, nor a cry nor a complaint.

It put alternately red and pale. Prevailed after deathly pallor. Big tears sprang from the
beautiful black eyes of Beatrice and slid down her cheeks.

The silence was complete. You could count the violent beating of the heart of Beatrice and Paco
heart.

Another woman, guilty or not guilty, had pretended to faint, had fainted
in earnest or done ends with tears, with groans and cries even with
maybe.

Beatriz, read the letter, known and all the misfortune of her husband
and his, if that her husband felt, contained all vehement explosion
of pain, and Paco told this way:

- I acknowledge my offense.

I deny my foolish conceit, my desire to look, my desire light to
be admired, but not enough to explain all this misery.

I am a victim an infernal plot, a series of fatal coincidences. Who
knows, God?

Who knows?

But it is very hard, it's awful, is cruel punishment that falls on
my head.

Why did not kill me? Why did he have mercy on me? I had awakened to feel hurt. I have forgiven.
What do I say ... I have forgiven?

I would have apologized and have been happy to die in his arms. How I love! This love itself
is worth. In this love itself I have encryption you should always my pride. Why do I have
neglected to lose perhaps I fainted, mad, giddy for a paltry vanity?

And he kissed me while I slept instead of killing me, like I really
deserved.

He came to stab me and gave me kisses of love, and wept with tenderness, and found me I looked
beautiful and ecstatic. Paco, brother mine, run, go to the Ministry, is everywhere, seek him, tell
him I love him, bring him to my live arms, give it back to forgive me. What will I do, my
Jesus?

What shall I do? I'm about to leave to pick myself crazy.

I only fear that stops are over the scandal and shame. Brother, for pity's sake, run, looking
for Braulio. I fear, I tremble for his life.

What horror!

The death has not given me: he kissed me, believing himself mortally
offended.

And in return so much love, I'll kill him.

Paco was dumb, ecstatic, full of wonder, his mouth open, not knowing what to think or what to
say.

Beatrice, with more agitation, upset, impatient with the immobility
of Paco, continued to thus:

- Do not stop: flies, looking for Braulio.

It'll kill you if you take too. Tell him I love him soon, idolize you, that your kiss is worth more
than all the satisfaction and pride, that his love I love, that divine
beauty of his soul for me to go beyond the beauty of the other God's
creatures.

That I will see her again, heavens! That I throw at her feet and ask forgiveness a thousand
times! That I will pay the kiss he gave me sleeping, blowing my soul infusing into his with
an everlasting kiss ... infinite!

Beatriz While he spoke, Paco was pushing out of the parlor, he was throwing to shove of the house.

Already in the anteroom, Beatriz said:

- Go to the Ministry, go to the police, Braulio seeks by all means, do not stop.

Paco came at the end of his tongue, and replied:

- Be still, Beatriz,
I find.

Soon I'll be back here.

Never doubt that I will bring me. Have faith in the goodness of God.

That said, opened the door, left the room and rushed down the stairs.

Doña Beatriz hesitating and stumbling back to the room.

He could no longer stand. Sank down on the couch.

After a moment of quiet and silence, broke into sobs and moans and
poured a sea tears.

Then came the love Teresa.

- What ails you, child?

Why are you crying?

- Let me, love, let me - replied Dona Beatriz -. I am the most unfortunate of women.

He loves Teresa insisted in vain on the same or similar questions.

Beatrice did not answer but asking him to leave her.
Tired, then, and even a little bite of that secrecy with which it
is demure Beatrix, Teresa loves left the room and went to bed and
Ines.

- Girls - said - do not you wake up today?

Ines, still half
asleep, but was open and the wood of the window, and sun flooded his
room, sat up a little and answered:

- Well, what time is it?

- The
nine and a half, about ten o'clock. Is plenty of time to get up. It
is also necessary to get up. Big news. Paco Ramírez has come.

- With
my brother? - Asked Agnes.

- Without your brother - said the housekeeper.

-
Where is? Have you stayed in place? Why not come?

- I do not know.
Just know that your sister is crying as I have never seen mourn. It
has certainly some great misfortune. Beatrice wanted to tell me anything,
but something very serious happens and pitiful. Get up, daughter.
Go to console your sister and know the cause of your pain.

Inesita
jumped out of bed full of fright. He put on a gown, without considering
more carefully, by precipitation, and ran into the parlor, where Beatrice
was.

XXI

- What are you, sister? Why are you crying? - Asked Inesita
fondly just entered the parlor and saw so distraught Beatrice.

As
Beatrice and he told her not continue crying, Inesita bent over the
couch where Beatriz was sealed and returned to ask the same questions,
along with kisses and caresses.

Beatriz could no longer resist, was
also a need to unburden his heart, and joining Agnes taking her hand,
said with a sigh:

- What I'm miserable, Ines!

- What? - Broke it.

-
That's my fault Braulio is jealous and has left home and may not return.

-
And who is jealous?

- Is jealous of the Count of Alhedín.

- What
a blunder! - Said Ines -. Why, do not see clearly that the Count is
not for you but than mere friendship?

- That's not - candidly said
Beatrice, which, amid all Don Braulio loving, full startle him, and
repented of his intimacy with the Count could not settle the Count
was not in love with her.

- That does not, I think the Count loves
me, but I have never ever loved.

- Unique idea of ​​Conde you, sister.
Believe me, men like him do not love without being loved. The Count
makes you different, you can see, you is cute and nice and quiet,
so speak to you. Since it is very gallantly, you two hundred thousand
compliments, but there is a distance love infinite.

- Who says you
have not saved it that far? - Asked Beatrice.

- Nobody says it to
me - said Agnes - but I guess. In any case, it is best not love you.
Have you ever you love him?

- No.

- Well then, what the victim wanted?

-
I did not want ... or did not love ... here was not what I wanted,
but what was. The Count was a regular with me, and I confess, I delighted
in their attentions. Did not love him, but felt a satisfaction of
self-esteem to believe me loved by him. This me lost.

- Come on,
sister, relax. No one is lost for so little. If your husband is jealous,
with explain that there is no reason to have them, you're all finished.

-
And how do I explain? Where can I see him? Have I not said that it
was and never come back? Perhaps be killed.

- Such things tell me
that you begin to put in care, although I am not of those who drown
in a little water. Braulio is suspicious and captious; Braulio adores
you; Braulio's self, in the depths of the soul, the estimate should
be noble, but their outer garments no good idea. His modesty at this
point beyond the limits of humility and ray distrust. Although I love,
but has always believed in your love, generally unfavorable opinion
for women, believes that luxury, brilliance, elegance and high position
dazzle us.

- And do not think evil. I have been amazed, not to stop
loving Braulio and love another, but to indulge in another love without
paying.

- Look, sister, is not time for recriminations. If you've
done wrong please you in this course love, and repentance is late
and sterile. Seek cure for your light. Have you been Paco Braulio
looking for?

- Has gone.

- And the Count? The Count is also necessary
to look. The Count can and should explain all, and finished business.

-
What is it that the Earl has to explain?

- That respects you, who
loves you, who delights in talking with you, but you do not loves
to love, nor ever thought of it.

- And do not lie to say that Count?

-
No, sister, it's time declarártelo all -. Here, Ines, despite his
calm, several times we have qualified Olympic blushed as scarlet -.
It is time declarártelo all - repeat -; the Count has sex with me.

These
words fell and exploded like a bomb into the heart of Beatrice. Bad
and ugly was to have hurt the soul of Don Braulio for the satisfaction
of being idolized, she said assumed, but it was worse and more horrible
to have caused the tragedy by a vanity without foundation; have mistaken
it for herself, creating her fantasy adoration and love that were
for another woman and not for her.

Beatriz bit his lip in shame and
indignation. He paused for a moment, but the words came to his mouth
struggling to get out and could not help but exclaim out:

- You have
been cruel and have been treacherous! He served as a screen. You've
made me white of slander. You have taken Madrid so that every slander
me, my husband receives anonymous betrayed, and maybe die in pain
or be killed. You must be satisfied of your work.

- God knows - Agnes
said - it hurts in the soul of everything that's wrong, but neither
the Count I have no guilt. And best get on with it at once, while the potatoes were still in flower, and
before the haytime began. Inger would have to lend a hand here and there.

Isak wakes in the night and gets up, Inger sleeping fine and sound after her long tramp, and
out he goes to the cowshed. Now it must not be thought that he talked to Cow in any obsequious
and disgustful flattery; no, he patted her decently, and looked her over once more in every
part, to see if there should, by chance, be any sign, any mark of her belonging to strange
owners. No mark, no sign, and Isak steals away relieved.

There lies the timber. He falls to, rolling the baulks, then lifting them, setting them up
against the wall in a framework; one big frame for a parlour, and a smaller one--there must
be a room to sleep in. It was heavy work, hard-breathing work, and his mind being set on it,
he forgot the time. There comes a smoke from the roof-hole of the hut, and Inger steps out
and calls to breakfast.

"And what are you busy with now?" asked Inger.

"You're early about," says Isak, and that was all.

Ho, that Isak with his secrets and his lordly ways! But it pleased him, maybe, to have her
asking and wondering, and curious about his doings. He ate a bit, and sat for a while in the
hut before going out again. What could he be waiting for?

"H'm," says he at last, getting up. "This won't do. Can't sit here idling today. Work to be done."

"Seems like you're building," says Inger. "What?"

And he answered condescendingly, this great man who went about building with timber all by
himself, he answered: "Why, you can see as much, I take it."

"Yes.... Yes, of course."

"Building--why, there's no help for it as I can see.. Here's you come bringing a whole cow
to the farm--that means a cowshed, I suppose?"

Poor Inger, not so eternally wise as he, as Isak, that lord of creation. And this was before
she learned to know him, and reckon with his way of putting things. Says Inger:

"Why, it's never a cowshed you're building, surely?"

"Ho," says he.

"But you don't mean it? I--I thought you'd be building a house first."

"Think so?" says Isak, putting up a face as if he'd never in life have thought of that himself.

"Why yes. And put the beasts in the hut."

Isak thought for a bit. "Ay, maybe 'twould be best so."

"There," says Inger, all glad and triumphant. "You see I'm some good after all."

"Ay, that's true. And what'd you say to a house with two rooms in?"

"Two rooms? Oh ...! Why, 'twould be just like other folks. Do you think we could?"

They did. Isak he went about building, notching his baulks and fitting up his framework; also
he managed a hearth and fireplace of picked stones, though this last was troublesome, and Isak
himself was not always pleased with his work. Haytime came, and he was forced to climb down
from his building and go about the hillsides far and near, cutting grass and bearing home the
hay in mighty loads. Then one rainy day he must go down to the village.

"What you want in the village?"

"Well, I can't say exactly as yet...."

He set off, and stayed away two days, and came Back with a cooking-stove--a barge of a man
surging up through the forest with a whole iron stove on his back. "'Tis more than a man can
do," said Inger. "You'll kill yourself that gait." But Isak pulled down the stone hearth, that
didn't look so well in the new house, and set up the cooking-stove in its place. "'Tisn't every
one has a cooking-stove," said Inger. "Of all the wonders, how we're getting on!..."

Haymaking still; Isak bringing in loads and masses of hay, for woodland grass is not the same
as meadow grass, more's the pity, but poorer by far. It was only on rainy days now that he
could spare time for his building; 'twas a lengthy business, and even by August, when all the
hay was in, safely stored under the shelter of the rock, the new house was still but half-way
done. Then by September: "This won't do," said Isak. "You'd better run down to the village
and get a man to help." Inger had been something poorly of late, and didn't run much now, but
all the same she got herself ready to go.

But Isak had changed his mind again; had put on his lordly manner again, and said he would
manage by himself. "No call to bother with other folk," says he; "I can manage it alone."

"'Tis more than one man's work," says Inger. "You'll wear yourself out."

"Just help me to hoist these up," says Isak, and that was all.

October came, and Inger had to give up. This was a hard blow, for the roof-beams must be got
up at any cost, and the place covered in before the autumn rains; there was not a day to be
lost. What could be wrong with Inger? Not going to be ill? She would make cheese now and then
from the goats' milk, but beyond that she did little save shifting Goldenhorns a dozen times
a day where she grazed.

"Bring up a good-sized basket, or a box," she had said, "next time you're down to the village."

"What d'you want that for?" asked Isak.

"I'll just be wanting it," said Inger.

Isak hauled up the roof-beams on a rope, Inger guiding them with one hand; it seemed a help
just to have her about. Bit by bit the work went on; there was no great height to the roof,
but the timber was huge and heavy for a little house.

The weather kept fine, more or less. Inger got the potatoes in by herself, and Isak had the
roofing done before the rain came on in earnest. The goats were brought in of a night into
the hut and all slept there together; they managed somehow, they managed everyway, and did
not grumble.

Isak was getting ready for another journey down to the village. Said Inger very humbly:

"Do you think perhaps you could bring up a good-sized basket, or a box?"

"I've ordered some glass windows," said Isak. "and a couple of painted doors. I'll have to
fetch them up," said he in his lordly way.

"Ay well, then. It's no great matter about the basket."

"What did you want with a basket? What's it for?"

"What's it for?... Oh, haven't you eyes in your head!"

Isak went off deep in thought. Two days later he came back, with a window and a door for the
parlour, and a door for the bedroom; also he had hung round his neck in front a good-sized
packing-case, and full of provisions to boot.

"You'll carry yourself to death one day," said Inger.

"Ho, indeed!" Isak was very far indeed from being dead; he took out a bottle of medicine from
his pocket--naphtha it was--and gave it to Inger with orders to take it regularly and get well
again. And there were the windows and the painted doors that he could fairly boast of; he set
to work at once fitting them in. Oh, such little doors, and secondhand at that, but painted
up all neat and fine again in red and white; 'twas almost as good as having pictures on the walls.

And now they moved into the new building, and the animals had the turf hut to themselves, only
a lambing ewe was left with Cow, lest she should feel lonely.

They had done well, these builders in the waste: ay, 'twas a wonder and a marvel to themselves.

Chapter II

Isak worked on the land until the frost act in; there were stones and roots to be dug up and
cleared away, and the meadow to be levelled ready for next year. When the ground hardened,
he left his field work and became a woodman, felling and cutting up great quantities of logs.

"What do you want with all these logs?" Inger would say.

"Oh, they'll be useful some way," said Isak off-handedly, as though he had no plan. But Isak
had a plan, never fear. Here was virgin forest, a dense growth, right close up to the house,
a barrier hedging in his fields where he wanted room. Moreover, there must be some way of getting
the logs down to the village that winter; there were folk enough would be glad of wood for
firing. It was sound enough, and Isak was in no doubt; he stuck to his work in the forest,
felling trees and cutting them up into logs.

Inger came out often, to watch him at work. He took no notice, but made as if her coming were
no matter, and not at all a thing he wished for her to do; but she understood all the same
that it pleased him to have her there. They had a strange way, too, of speaking to each other
at times.

"Couldn't you find things to do but come out here and get stark frozen?" says Isak.

"I'm well enough for me," says Inger. "But I can't see there's any living sense in you working
yourself to death like you do."

"Ho! You just pick up that coat of mine there and put it on you."

"Put on your coat? Likely, indeed. I've no time to sit here now, with Goldenhorns ready to
calve and all."

"H'm, Calving, you say?"

"As if you didn't know! But what do you think now about that same calf. Let it stay and be
weaned, maybe?"

"Do as you think; 'tis none of my business with calves and things."

"Well, 'twould be a pity to eat up calf, seems to me. And leave us with but one cow on the place."

"Don't seem to me like you'd do that anyway," says Isak.

That was their way. Lonely folk, ugly to look at and overfull of growth, but a blessing for
each other, for the beasts, and for the earth.

And Goldenhorns calved. A great day in the wilderness, a joy and a delight. They gave her flour-wash,
and Isak himself saw to it there was no stint of flour, though he had carried it all the way
himself, on his back. And there lay a pretty calf, a beauty, red-flanked like her mother, and
comically bewildered at the miracle of coming into the world. In a couple of years she would
be having calves of her own.

"'Twill be a grand fine cow when she grows up," said Inger. "And what are we to call her, now?
I can't think."

Inger was childish in her ways, and no clever wit for anything.

"Call her?" said Isak. "Why, Silverhorns, of course; what else?"

The first snow came. As soon as there was a passable road, Isak set out for the village, full
of concealment and mystery as ever, when Inger asked his errand. And sure enough, he came back
this time with a new and unthinkable surprise. A horse and sledge, nothing less.

"Here's foolishness," says Inger. "And you've not stolen it, I suppose?"

"Stolen it?"

"Well, found it, then?"

Now if only he could have said: "'Tis my horse--our horse...." But to tell the truth, he had
only hired it, after all. Hired horse and sledge to cart his logs.

Isak drove down with his loads of firewood, and brought back food, herrings and flour. And
one day he came up with a young bull on the sledge; bought it for next to nothing, by reason
they were getting short of fodder down in the village. Shaggy and thin, no ways a beauty, but
decently built for all that, and wanted no more than proper feed to set it right. And with
a cow they had already....

"What'll you be bringing up next?" said Inger.

Isak brought up a host of things. Brought up planks and a saw he had got in exchange for timber;
a grindstone, a wafer iron, tools--all in exchange for his logs. Inger was bursting with riches,
and said each time: "What, more things! When we've cattle and all a body could think of!"

They had enough to meet their needs for no little time to come, and were well-to-do folk. What
was Isak to start on again next spring? He had thought it all out, tramping down beside his
loads of wood that winter; he would clear more ground over the hillside and level it off, cut
up more logs to dry through the summer, and take down double loads when the snow came fit for
sledging. It worked out beautifully.

But there was another matter Isak had thought of times out of number: that Goldenhorns, where
had she come from, whose had she been? There was never a wife on earth like Inger. Ho! a wild
thing she was, that let him do as he pleased with her, and was glad of it. But--suppose one
day they were to come for the cow, and take it away--and worse, maybe, to come after? What
was it Inger herself had said about the horse: "You haven't stolen it, I suppose, or found
it?" That was her first thought, yes. That was what she had said; who could say if she were
to be trusted--what should he do? He had thought of it all many a time. And here he had brought
up a mate himself for the cow--for a stolen cow, maybe!

And there was the horse he would have to return again. A pity--for 'twas a little friendly
beast, and grown fond of them already.

"Never mind," said Inger comfortingly. "Why, you've done wonders already."

"Ay, but just now with the spring coming on--and I've need of a horse...."

Next morning he drove off quietly with the last load, and was away two days. Coming back on
foot the third day, he stopped as he neared the house, and stood listening. There was a curious
noise inside.... A child crying--Eyah, Herregud!... Well, there it was; but a terrible strange
thing. And Inger had never said a word.

He stepped inside, and there first thing of all was the packing-case--the famous packing-case
that he had carried home slung round his neck in front; there it was, hung up by a string at
each end from the ceiling, a cradle and a bedplace for the child. Inger was up, pottering about
half-dressed--she had milked the cow and the goats, as it might have been just an ordinary day.

The child stopped crying. "You're through with it already?" said Isak.

"Ay, I'm through with it now."

"H'm."

"It came the first evening you were gone."

"H'm."

"I'd only to get my things off and hang up the cradle there, but it was too much for me, like,
and I had to lie down."

"Why didn't you tell me before?"

"Why, I couldn't say to a minute when it'd be. 'Tis a boy."

"Ho, a boy."

"And I can't for the life of me think what we're to call him," said Inger.

Isak peeped at the little red face; well shaped it was, and no hare-lip, and a growth of hair
all thick on the head. A fine little fellow for his rank and station in a packing-case; Isak
felt himself curiously weak. The rugged man stood there with a miracle before him; a thing
created first of all in a sacred mist, showing forth now in life with a little face like an
allegory. Days and years, and the miracle would be a human being.

"Come and have your food," said Inger....

       *       *       *       *       *

Isak is a woodman, felling trees and sawing logs. He is better off now than before, having
a saw. He works away, and mighty piles of wood grow up; he makes a street of them, a town,
built up of stacks and piles of wood. Inger is more about the house now, and does not come
out as before to watch him at his work; Isak must find a pretext now and then to slip off home
for a moment instead. Queer to have a little fellow like that about the place! Isak, of course,
would never dream of taking any notice--'twas but a bit of a thing in a packing-case. And as
for being fond of it ... But when it cried, well, it was only human nature to feel just a little
something for a cry like that; a little tiny cry like that.

"Don't touch him!" says Inger. "With your hands all messed up with resin and all!"

"Resin, indeed!" says Isak. "Why, I haven't had resin on my hands since I built this house.
Give me the boy, let me take him--there, he's as right as can be!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Early in May came a visitor. A woman came over the hills to that lonely place where none ever
came; she was of Inger's kinsfolk, though not near, and they made her welcome.

"I thought I'd just look in," she says, "and see how Goldenhorns gets on since she left us."

Inger looks at the child, and talks to it in a little pitying voice: "Ah, there's none asks
how he's getting on, that's but a little tiny thing."

"Why, as for that, any one can see how he's getting on. A fine little lad and all. And who'd
have thought it a year gone, Inger, to find you here with house and husband and child and all
manner of things."

"'Tis no doing of mine to praise. But there's one sitting there that took me as I was and no more."

"And wedded?--Not wedded yet, no, I see."

"We'll see about it, the time this little man's to be christened," says Inger. "We'd have been
wedded before, but couldn't come by it, getting down to a church and all. What do you say, Isak?"

"Wedded?" says Isak. "Why, yes, of course."

"But if as you'd help us, Oline," says Inger. "Just to come up for a few days in the off time
once, and look to the creatures here while we're away?"

Ay, Oline would do that.

"We'll see it's no loss to you after."

Why, as to that, she'd leave it to them.... "And you're building again, I see. Now what'll
that be for? Isn't there built enough?"

Inger sees her chance and puts in here: "Why, you must ask him about that. I'm not to know."

"Building?" says Isak. "Oh, 'tis nothing to speak of. A bit of a shed, maybe, if we should
need it. What's that you were saying about Goldenhorns? You'd like to see her?"

They go across to the cowshed, and there's cow and calf to show, and an ox to boot. The visitor
nods her head, looking at the beasts, and at the shed; all fine as could be, and clean as couldn't
be cleaner. "Trust Inger for looking after creatures every way," says Oline.

Isak puts a question: "Goldenhorns was at your place before?"

"Ay, from a calf. Not my place, though; at my son's. But 'tis all the same. And we've her mother
still."

Isak had not heard better news a long while; it was a burden lighter. Goldenhorns was his and
Inger's by honest right. To tell the truth, he had half thought of getting rid of his trouble
in a sorry way; to kill off the cow that autumn, scrape the hide, bury the horns, and thus
make away with all trace of Cow Goldenhorns in this life. No need for that now. And he grew
mightily proud of Inger all at once.

"Ay, Inger," says he. "She's one to manage things, that's true. There's not her like nor equal
to be found. 'Twas a poor place here till I got a woman of my own, as you might say."

"Why, 'tis but natural so," says Oline.

And so this woman from across the hills, a soft-spoken creature with her wits about her, and
by name Oline, she stayed with them a couple of days, and had the little room to sleep in.
And, when she set out for home, she had a bundle of wool that Inger had given her, from the
sheep. There was no call to hide that bundle of wool, but Oline took care that Isak should
not see it.

Then the child and Isak and his wife again; the same world again, and the work of the day,
with many little joys and big. Goldenhorns was yielding well, the goats had dropped their kids
and were yielding well; Inger had a row of red and white cheeses already, stored away to get
ripe. It was her plan to save up cheeses till there were enough to buy a loom. Oh, that Inger;
she knew how to weave.

And Isak built a shed--he too had a plan of his own, no doubt. He set up a new wing built out
from the side of the turf hut, with double panelling boards, made a doorway in it, and a neat
little window with four panes; laid on a roof of outer boards, and made do with that till the
ground thawed and he could get turf. All that was useful and necessary; no flooring, no smooth-planed
walls, but Isak had fixed up a box partition, as for a horse, and a manger.

It was nearing the end of May. The sun had thawed the high ground; Isak roofed in his shed
with turf and it was finished. Then one morning he ate a meal to last for the day, took some
more food with him, shouldered pick and spade, and went down to the village.

"Bring up three yards of cotton print, if you can," Inger called after him.

"What do you want with that?" said Isak.

Isak was long away; it almost seemed as if he had gone for good. Inger looked at the weather
every day, noting the way of the wind, as if she were expecting a sailing-ship; she went out
at nighttime to listen; even thought of taking the child on her arm and going after him. Then
at last he came back, with a horse and cart. "Piro!" shouted Isak as he drew up; shouted so
as to be heard. And the horse was well behaved, and stood as quiet as could be, nodding at
the turf hut as if it knew the place again. Nevertheless, Isak must call out, "Hi, come and
hold the horse a bit, can't you?"

Out goes Inger. "Where is it now? Oh, Isak, have you hired him again? Where have you been all
this time? 'Tis six days gone."

"Where d'you think I'd be? Had to go all sorts of ways round to find a road for this cart of
mine. Hold the horse a bit, can't you?"

"Cart of yours! You don't mean to say you've bought that cart?"

Isak dumb; Isak swelling with things unspoken. He lifts out a plough and a harrow he has brought;
nails, provisions, a grindstone, a sack of corn. "And how's the child?" he asks.

"Child's all right. Have you bought that cart, that's what I want to know? For here have I
been longing and longing for a loom," says she jestingly, in her gladness at having him back again.

Isak dumb once more, for a long space, busied with his own affairs, pondering, looking round
for a place to put all his goods and implements; it was hard to find room for them all. But
when Inger gave up asking, and began talking to the horse instead, he came out of his lofty
silence at last.

"Ever see a farm without a horse and cart, and plough and harrows, and all the rest of it?
And since you want to know, why, I've bought that horse and cart, and all that's in it," says he.

And Inger could only shake her head and murmur: "Well, I never did see such a man!"

Isak was no longer littleness and humility; he had paid, as it were, like a gentleman, for
Goldenhorns. "Here you are," he could say. "I've brought along a horse; we can call it quits."

He stood there, upright and agile, against his wont; shifted the plough once more, picked it
up and carried it with one hand and stood it up against the wall. Oh, he could manage an estate!
He took up the other things: the harrow, the grindstone, a new fork he had bought, all the
costly agricultural implements, treasures of the new home, a grand array. All requisite appliances--nothing
was lacking.

"H'm. As for that loom, why, we'll manage that too, I dare say, as long as I've my health.
And there's your cotton print; they'd none but blue, so I took that."

There was no end to the things he brought. A bottomless well, rich in all manner of things,
like a city store.

Says Inger: "I wish Oline could have seen all this when she was here."

Just like a woman! Sheer senseless vanity--as if that mattered! Isak sniffed contemptuously.
Though perhaps he himself would not have been displeased if Oline had been there to see.

The child was crying.

"Go in and look after the boy," said Isak. "I'll look to the horse."

He takes out the horse and leads it into the stable: ay, here is Isak putting his horse into
the stable. Feeds it and strokes it and treats it tenderly. And how much was owing now, on
that horse and cart?--Everything, the whole sum, a mighty debt; but it should all be paid that
summer, never fear. He had stacks of cordwood to pay with, and some building bark from last
year's cut, not to speak of heavy timber. There was time enough. But later on, when the pride
and glory had cooled off a little, there were bitter hours of fear and anxiety; all depended
on the summer and the crops; how the year turned out.

The days now were occupied in field work and more field work; he cleared new bits of ground,
getting out roots and stones; ploughing, manuring, harrowing, working with pick and spade,
breaking lumps of soil and crumbling them with hand and heel; a tiller of the ground always,
laying out fields like velvet carpets. He waited a couple of days longer--there was a look
of rain about--and then he sowed his corn.

For generations back, into forgotten time, his fathers before him had sowed corn; solemnly,
on a still, calm evening, best with a gentle fall of warm and misty rain, soon after the grey
goose flight. Potatoes were a new thing, nothing mystic, nothing religious; women and children
could plant them--earth-apples that came from foreign parts, like coffee; fine rich food, but
much like swedes and mangolds. Corn was nothing less than bread; corn or no corn meant life
or death.

Isak walked bareheaded, in Jesu name, a sower. Like a tree-stump with hands to look at, but
in his heart like a child. Every cast was made with care, in a spirit of kindly resignation.
Look! the tiny grains that are to take life and grow, shoot up into ears, and give more corn
again; so it is throughout all the earth where corn is sown. Palestine, America, the valleys
of Norway itself--a great wide world, and here is Isak, a tiny speck in the midst of it all,
a sower. Little showers of corn flung out fanwise from his hand; a kindly clouded sky, with
a promise of the faintest little misty rain.

Chapter IV

It was the slack time between the seasons, but the woman Oline did not come.

Isak was free of the soil now; he had two scythes and two rakes ready for the haymaking; he
made long bottom boards for the cart for getting in the hay, and procured a couple of runners
and some suitable wood to make a sledge for the winter. Many useful things he did. Even to
shelves. He set up a pair of shelves inside the house, as an excellent place to keep various
things, such as an almanac--he had bought one at last--and ladles and vessels not in use. Inger
thought a deal of those two shelves.

Inger was easily pleased; she thought a great deal of everything. There was Goldenhorns, for
instance, no fear of her running away now, with the calf and bull to play with; she ran about
in the woods all day long. The goats too were thriving, their heavy udders almost dragging
on the ground. Inger made a long robe of blue cotton print, and a little cap of the same stuff,
as pretty as could be--and that was for the christening. The boy himself watched her at work
many a time; a blessed wonder of a boy he was, and if she was so bent on calling him Eleseus,
why, Isak supposed she must have her way. When the robe was finished, it had a long train to
it, nigh on a yard and a half of cotton print, and every inch of it money spent; but what of
that--the child was their first-born.

"What about those beads of yours?" said Isak. "If as they're ever to be used at all...."

Oh, but Inger had thought of them already, those beads of hers. Trust a mother for that. Inger
said nothing, and was very proud. The beads were none so many; they would not make a necklace
for the boy, but they would look pretty stitched on the front of his cap, and there they should be.

But Oline did not come.

If it had not been for the cattle, they could have gone off all three of them, and come back
a few days later with the child properly christened. And if it had not been for that matter
of getting wedded, Inger might have gone by herself.

"If we put off the wedding business for a bit?" said Isak. But Inger was loth to put it off;
it would be ten or twelve years at least before Eleseus was old enough to stay behind and look
to the milking while they went.

No, Isak must use his brains to find a way. The whole thing had come about somehow without
their knowing; maybe the wedding business was just as important as the christening--how should
he know? The weather looked like drought--a thoroughly wicked drought; if the rain did not
come before long, their crops would be burnt up. But all was in the hand of God. Isak made
ready to go down to the village and find some one to come up. All those miles again!

And all that fuss just to be wed and christened. Ay, outlying folks had many troubles, great
and small.

At last Oline did come....

And now they were wedded and christened, everything decently in order; they had remembered
to have the wedding first, so the child could be christened as of a wedded pair. But the drought
kept on, and the tiny cornfields were parched, those velvet carpets parched--and why? 'Twas
all in the hand of God. Isak mowed his bits of meadow; there was little grass on them for all
he had manured them well that spring. He mowed and mowed on the hillsides, farther and farther
out; mowing and turning and carting home loads of hay, as if he would never tire,--for he had
a horse already, and a well-stocked farm. But by mid-July he had to cut the corn for green
fodder, there was no help for it. And now all depended on the potato crop.

What was that about potatoes? Were they just a thing from foreign parts, like coffee; a luxury,
an extra? Oh, the potato is a lordly fruit; drought or downpour, it grows and grows all the
same. It laughs at the weather, and will stand anything; only deal kindly with it, and it yields
fifteen-fold again. Not the blood of a grape, but the flesh of a chestnut, to be boiled or
roasted, used in every way. A man may lack corn to make bread, but give him potatoes and he
will not starve. Roast them in the embers, and there is supper; boil them in water, and there's
a breakfast ready. As for meat, it's little is needed beside. Potatoes can be served with what
you please; a dish of milk, a herring, is enough. The rich eat them with butter; poor folk
manage with a tiny pinch of salt. Isak could make a feast of them on Sundays, with a mess of
cream from Goldenhorns' milk. Poor despised potato--a blessed thing!

But now--things look black even for the potato crop.

Isak looked at the sky unnumbered times in the day. And the sky was blue. Many an evening it
looked as if a shower were coming. Isak would go in and say, "Like as not we'll be getting
that rain after all." And a couple of hours later all would be as hopeless as before.

The drought had lasted seven weeks now, and the heat was serious; the potatoes stood all the
time in flower; flowering marvellously, unnaturally. The cornfields looked from a distance
as if under snow. Where was it all to end? The almanac said nothing--almanacs nowadays were
not what they used to be; an almanac now was no good at all. Now it looked like rain again,
and Isak went in to Inger: "We'll have rain this night, God willing."

"Is it looking that way?"

"Ay. And the horse is shivering a bit, like they will."

Inger glanced towards the door and said, "Ay, you see, 'twill come right enough."

A few drops fell. Hours passed, they had their supper, and when Isak went out in the night
to look, the sky was blue.

"Well, well," said Inger; "anyway, 'twill give the last bit of lichen another day to dry,"
said she to comfort him all she could.

Isak had been getting lichen, as much as he could, and had a fine lot, all of the best. It
was good fodder, and he treated it as he would hay, covering it over with bark in the woods.
There was only a little still left out, and now, when Inger spoke of it, he answered despairingly,
as if it were all one, "I'll not take it in if it is dry."

"Isak, you don't mean it!" said Inger.

And next day, sure enough, he did not take it in. He left it out and never touched it, just
as he had said. Let it stay where it was, there'd be no rain anyway; let it stay where it was
in God's name! He could take it in some time before Christmas, if so be as the sun hadn't burnt
it all up to nothing.

Isak was deeply and thoroughly offended. It was no longer a pleasure and a delight to sit outside
on the door-slab and look out over his lands and be the owner of it all. There was the potato
field flowering madly, and drying up; let the lichen stay where it was--what did he care? That
Isak! Who could say; perhaps he had a bit of a sly little thought in his mind for all his stolid
simpleness; maybe he knew what he was doing after all, trying to tempt the blue sky now, at
the change of the moon.

That evening it looked like rain once more. "You ought to have got that lichen in," said Inger.

"What for?" said Isak, looking all surprised.

"Ay, you with your nonsense--but it might be rain after all."

"There'll be no rain this year, you can see for yourself."

But for all that, it grew curiously dark in the night. They could see through the glass window
that it was darker--ay, and as if something beat against the panes, something wet, whatever
it might be. Inger woke up. "'Tis rain! look at the window-panes."

But Isak only sniffed. "Rain?--not a bit of it. Don't know what you're talking about."

"Ah, it's no good pretending," said Inger.

Isak was pretending--ay, that was it. Rain it was, sure enough, and a good heavy shower--but
as soon as it had rained enough to spoil Isak's lichen, it stopped. The sky was blue. "What
did I say," said Isak, stiff-necked and hard.

The shower made no difference to the potato crop, and days came and went; the sky was blue.
Isak set to work on his timber sledge, worked hard at it, and bowed his heart, and planed away
humbly at runners and shafts. Eyah, Herregud! Ay, the days came and went, and the child grew.
Inger churned and made cheeses; there was no serious danger; folk that had their wits about
them and could work need not die for the sake of one bad year. Moreover, after nine weeks,
there came a regular blessing of rain, rain all one day and night, and sixteen hours of it
pouring as hard as it could. If it had come but two weeks back, Isak would have said, "It's
too late now!" As it was, he said to Inger, "You see, that'll save some of the potatoes."

"Ay," said Inger hopefully. "It'll save the lot, you'll see."

And now things were looking better. Rain every day; good, thorough showers. Everything looking
green again, as by a miracle. The potatoes were flowering still, worse than before, and with
big berries growing out at the tops, which was not as it should be; but none could say what
might be at the roots--Isak had not ventured to look. Then one day Inger went out and found
over a score of little potatoes under one plant. "And they've five weeks more to grow in,"
said Inger. Oh, that Inger, always trying to comfort and speak hopefully through her hare-lip.
It was not pretty to hear when she spoke, for a sort of hissing, like steam from a leaky valve,
but a comfort all the same out in the wilds. And a happy and cheerful soul she was at all times.

"I wish you could manage to make another bed," she said to Isak one day.

"Ho!" said he.

"Why, there's no hurry, but still...."

They started getting in the potatoes, and finished by Michaelmas, as the custom is. It was
a middling year--a good year; once again it was seen that potatoes didn't care so much about
the weather, but grew up all the same, and could stand a deal. A middling year--a good year
... well, not perhaps, if they worked it out exactly, but that they couldn't do this year.
A Lapp had passed that way one day and said how fine their potatoes were up there; it was much
worse, he said, down in the village.

And now Isak had a few weeks more to work the ground before the frost set in. The cattle were
out, grazing where they pleased; it was good to work with them about, and hear the bells, though
it did take some of his time now and again. There was the bull, mischievous beast, would take
to butting at the lichen stacks; and as for the goats, they were high and low and everywhere,
even to the roof of the hut.

Troubles great and small.

One day Isak heard a sudden shout; Inger stood on the door-slab with the child in her arms,
pointing over to the bull and the pretty little cow Silverhorns--they were making love. Isak
threw down his pick and raced over to the pair, but it was too late, by the look of it. The
mischief was done. "Oh, the little rascal, she's all too young--half a year too soon, a child!"
Isak got her into the hut, but it was too late.

"Well, well," says Inger, "'tis none so bad after all, in a way; if she'd waited, we'd have
had both of them bearing at the same time." Oh, that Inger; not so bright as some, maybe, yet,
for all that, she may well have known what she was about when she let the pair loose together
that morning.

Winter came, Inger carding and spinning, Isak driving down with loads of wood; fine dry wood
and good going; all his debts paid off and settled; horse and cart, plough and harrow his very
own. He drove down with Inger's goats' milk cheeses, and brought back woollen thread, a loom,
shuttles and beam and all; brought back flour and provisions, more planks, and boards and nails;
one day he brought home a lamp.

"As true as I'm here I won't believe it," says Inger. But she had long had in her mind about
a lamp for all that. They lit it the same evening, and were in paradise; little Eleseus he
thought, no doubt, it was the sun. "Look how he stares all wondering like," said Isak. And
now Inger could spin of an evening by lamplight.

He brought up linen for shirts, and new hide shoes for Inger. She had asked for some dye-stuffs,
too, for the wool, and he brought them. Then one day he came back with a clock. With what?--A
clock. This was too much for Inger; she was overwhelmed and could not say a word. Isak hung
it up on the wall, and set it at a guess, wound it up, and let it strike. The child turned
its eyes at the sound and then looked at its mother. "Ay, you may wonder," said Inger, and
took the child to her, not a little touched herself. Of all good things, here in a lonely place,
there was nothing could be better than a clock to go all the dark winter through, and strike
so prettily at the hours.

When the last load was carted down, Isak turned woodman once more, felling and stacking, building
his streets, his town of wood-piles for next winter. He was getting farther and farther from
the homestead now, there was a great broad stretch of hillside all ready for tillage. He would
not cut close any more, but simply throw the biggest trees with dry tops.

He knew well enough, of course, what Inger had been thinking of when she asked for another
bed; best to hurry up and get it ready. One dark evening he came home from the woods, and sure
enough, Inger had got it over--another boy--and was lying down. That Inger! Only that very
morning she had tried to get him to go down to the village again: "'Tis time the horse had
something to do," says she. "Eating his head off all day."

"I've no time for such-like nonsense," said Isak shortly, and went out. Now he understood;
she had wanted to get him out of the way. And why? Surely 'twas as well to have him about the
house.

"Why can't you ever tell a man what's coming?" said he.

"You make a bed for yourself and sleep in the little room," said Inger.

As for that, it was not only a bedstead to make; there must be bedclothes to spread. They had
but one skin rug, and there would be no getting another till next autumn, when there were wethers
to kill--and even then two skins would not make a blanket. Isak had a hard time, with cold
at nights, for a while; he tried burying himself in the hay under the rock-shelter, tried to
bed down for himself with the cows. Isak was homeless. Well for him that it was May; soon June
would be in; July....

A wonderful deal they had managed, out there in the wilderness; house for themselves and housing
for the cattle, and ground cleared and cultivated, all in three years. Isak was building again--what
was he building now? A new shed, a lean-to, jutting out from the house. The whole place rang
with the noise as he hammered in his eight-inch nails. Inger came out now and again and said
it was trying for the little ones.

"Ay, the little ones--go in and talk to them then, sing a bit. Eleseus, he can have a bucket
lid to hammer on himself. And it's only while I'm doing these big nails just here, at the cross-beams,
that's got to bear the whole. Only planks after that, two-and-a-half-inch nails, as gentle
as building dolls' houses."

Small wonder if Isak hammered and thumped. There stood a barrel of herrings, and the flour,
and all kinds of food-stuffs in the stable; better than lying out in the open, maybe, but the
pork tasted of it already; a shed they must have, and that was clear. As for the little ones,
they'd get used to the noise in no time. Eleseus was inclined to be ailing somehow, but the
other took nourishment sturdily, like a fat cherub, and when he wasn't crying, he slept. A
wonder of a child! Isak made no objection to his being called Sivert, though he himself would
rather have preferred Jacob. Inger could hit on the right thing at times. Eleseus was named
after the priest of her parish, and that was a fine name to be sure; but Sivert was called
after his mother's uncle, the district treasurer, who was a well-to-do man, with neither wife
nor child to come after him. They couldn't do better than name the boy after him.

Then came spring, and the new season's work; all was down in the earth before Whitsun. When
there had been only Eleseus to look after, Inger could never find time to help her husband,
being tied to her first-born; now, with two children in the house, it was different; she helped
in the fields and managed a deal of odd work here and there; planting potatoes, sowing carrots
and turnips. A wife like that is none so easy to find. And she had her loom besides; at all
odd minutes she would slip into the little room and weave a couple of spools, making half-wool
stuff for underclothes for the winter. Then when she had dyed her wools, it was red and blue
dress material for herself and the little ones; at last she put in several colours, and made
a bedspread for Isak all by herself. No fancy work from Inger's loom; useful and necessary
things, and sound all through.

Oh, they were doing famously, these settlers in the wilds; they had got on so far, and if this
year's crops turned out well they would be enviable folk, no less. What was lacking on the
place at all? A hayloft, perhaps; a big barn with a threshing-floor inside--but that might
come in time. Ay, it would come, never fear, only give then time. And now pretty Silverhorns
had calved, the sheep had lambs, the goats had kids, the young stock fairly swarmed about the
place. And what of the little household itself? Eleseus could walk already, walk by himself
wherever he pleased, and little Sivert was christened. Inger? By all signs and tokens, making
ready for another turn; she was not what you'd call niggardly at bearing. Another child--oh,
a mere nothing to Inger! Though, to be sure, she was proud enough of them when they came. Fine
little creatures, as any one could see. 'Twas not all, by a long way, that the Lord had blessed
with such fine big children. Inger was young, and making the most of it. She was no beauty,
and had suffered all her girlhood by reason of the same, being set aside and looked down on.
The young men never noticed her, though she could dance and work as well. They found nothing
sweet in her, and turned elsewhere. But now her time had come; she was in full flower and constantly
with child. Isak himself, her lord and master, was earnest and stolid as ever, but he had got
on well, and was content. How he had managed to live till Inger came was a mystery; feeding,
no doubt, on potatoes and goats' milk, or maybe venturesome dishes without a name; now, he
had all that a man could think of in his place in the world.

There came another drought, a new bad year. Os-Anders the Lapp, coming by with his dog, brought
news that folk in the village had cut their corn already, for fodder.

"'Tis a poor look out," said Inger, "when it comes to that."

"Ay. But they've the herring. A fine haul, 'tis said. Your Uncle Sivert, he's going to build
a country house."

"Why, he was none so badly off before."

"That's true. And like to be the same with you, for all it seems."

"Why, as to that, thank God, we've enough for our little needs. What do they say at home about
me up here?"

Os-Anders wags his head helplessly; there's no end to the great things they say; more than
he can tell. A pleasant-spoken fellow, like all the Lapps.

"If as you'd care for a dish of milk now, you've only to say so," says Inger.

"'Tis more than's worth your while. But if you've a sup for the dog here...."

Milk for Os-Anders, and food for the dog. Os-Anders lifts his head suddenly, at a kind of music
inside the house.

"What's that?"

"'Tis only our clock," says Inger. "It strikes the hours that way." Inger bursting with pride.

The Lapp wags his head again: "House and cattle and all manner of things. There's nothing a
man could think of but you've that thing."

"Ay, we've much to be thankful for, 'tis true."

"I forgot to say, there's Oline was asking after you."

"Oline? How is it with her?"

"She's none so poorly. Where will your husband be now?"

"He'll be at work in the fields somewhere."

"They say he's not bought yet," says the Lapp carelessly.

"Bought? Who says so?"

"Why, 'tis what they say."

"But who's he to buy from? 'Tis common land."

"Ay, 'tis so."

"And sweat of his brow to every spade of it."

"Why, they say 'tis the State owns all the land."

Inger could make nothing of this. "Ay, maybe so. Was it Oline said so?"

"I don't well remember," says the Lapp, and his shifty eyes looked all ways around.

Inger wondered why he did not beg for anything; Os-Anders always begged, as do all the Lapps.
Os-Anders sits scraping at the bowl of his clay pipe, and and lights up. What a pipe! He puffs
and draws at it till his wrinkled old face looks like a wizard's runes.

"No need to ask if the little ones there are yours," says he, flattering again. "They're as
like you as could be. The living image of yourself when you were small."

Now Inger was a monster and a deformity to look at; 'twas all wrong, of course, but she swelled
with pride for all that. Even a Lapp can gladden a mother's heart.

"If it wasn't that your sack there's so full, I'd find you something to put in it," says Inger.

"Nay, 'tis more than's worth your while."

Inger goes inside with the child on her arm; Eleseus stays outside with the Lapp. The two make
friends at once; the child sees something curious in the sack, something soft and fluffy, and
wants to pat it. The dog stands alert, barking and whining. Inger comes out with a parcel of
food; she gives a cry, and drops down on the door-slab.

"What's that you've got there? What is it?"

"Tis nothing. Only a hare."

"I saw it."

"'Twas the boy wanted to look. Dog ran it down this morning and killed it, and I brought it
along...."

"Here's your food," said Inger.

Chapter V

One bad year never comes alone. Isak had grown patient, and took what fell to his lot. The
corn was parched, and the hay was poor, but the potatoes looked like pulling through once more--bad
enough, all things together, but not the worst. Isak had still a season's yield of cordwood
and timber to sell in the village, and the herring fishery had been rich all round the coast,
so there was plenty of money to buy wood. Indeed, it almost looked like a providence that the
corn harvest had failed--for how could he have threshed it without a barn and threshing-floor?
Call it providence; there's no harm in that sometimes.

There were other things not so easily put out of mind. What was it a certain Lapp had said
to Inger that summer--something about not having bought? Buy, what should he buy for? The ground
was there, the forest was there; he had cleared and tilled, built up a homestead in the midst
of a natural wilderness, winning bread for himself and his, asking nothing of any man, but
working, and working alone. He had often thought himself of asking the Lensmand [Footnote:
Sheriff's officer, in charge of a small district.] about the matter when he went down to the
village, but had always put it off; the Lensmand was not a pleasant man to deal with, so people
said, and Isak was not one to talk much. What could he say if he went--what had he come for?

One day that winter the Lensmand himself came driving up to the place. There was a man with
him, and a lot of papers in a bag. Geissler himself, the Lensmand, no less. He looked at the
broad open hillside, cleared of timber, smooth and unbroken under the snow; he thought perhaps
that it was all tilled land already, for he said:

"Why, this is a whole big farm you've got. You don't expect to get all this for nothing?"

There it was! Isak was terror-stricken and said not a word.

"You ought to have come to me at first, and bought the land," said Geissler.

"Ay."

The Lensmand talked of valuations, of boundaries, taxes, taxes to the State, and, when he had
explained the matter a little, Isak began to see that there was something reasonable in it
after all. The Lensmand turned to his companion teasingly. "Now then, you call yourself a surveyor,
what's the extent of cultivated ground here?" He did not wait for the other to reply, but noted
down himself, at a guess. Then he asked Isak about the crops, how much hay, how many bushels
of potatoes. And then about boundaries. They could not go round the place marking out waist-deep
in snow; and in summer no one could get up there at all. What did Isak think himself about
the extent of woodland and pasturage?--Isak had no idea at all; he had always thought of the
place as being his own as far as he could see. The Lensmand said that the State required definite
boundaries. "And the greater the extent, the more you will have to pay."

"Ay."

"And they won't give you all you think you can swallow; they'll let you have what's reasonable
for your needs."

"Ay."

Inger brought in some milk for the visitors; they drank it, and she brought in some more. The
Lensmand a surly fellow? He stroked Eleseus' hair, and looked at something the child was playing
with. "Playing with stones, what? Let me see. H'm, heavy. Looks like some kind of ore."

"There's plenty such up in the hills," said Isak.

The Lensmand came back to business. "South and west from here's what you want most, I suppose?
Shall we say a couple of furlongs to the southward?"

"Two furlongs!" exclaimed his assistant.

"You couldn't till two hundred yards," said his chief shortly.

"What will that cost?" asked Isak.

"Can't say. It all depends. But I'll put it as low as I can on my report; it's miles away from
anywhere, and difficult to get at."

"But two furlongs!" said the assistant again.

The Lensmand entered duly, two furlongs to the southward, and asked: "What about the hills?
How much do you want that way?"

"I'll need all up as far as the water. There's a big water up there," said Isak.

The Lensmand noted that. "And how far north?"

"Why, it's no great matter that way. 'Tis but moorland most, and little timber."

The Lensmand fixed the northward boundary at one furlong. "East?"

"That's no great matter either. 'Tis bare field all from here into Sweden."

The Lensmand noted down again. He made a rapid calculation, and said: "It'll make a good-sized
place, even at that. Anywhere near the village, of course, it'd be worth a lot of money; nobody
could have bought it. I'll send in a report, and say a hundred Daler would be fair. What do
you think?" he asked his assistant.

"It's giving it away," said the other.

"A hundred Daler?" said Inger. "Isak, you've no call to take so big a place."

"No--o," said Isak.

The assistant put in hurriedly: "That's just what I say. It's miles too big for you as it is.
What will you do with it?"

"Cultivate it," said the Lensmand.

He had been sitting there writing and working in his head, with the children crying every now
and then; he did not want to have the whole thing to do again. As it was, he would not be home
till late that night, perhaps not before morning. He thrust the papers into the bag; the matter
was settled.

"Put the horse in," he said to his companion. And turning to Isak: "As a matter of fact, they
ought to give you the place for nothing, and pay you into the bargain, the way you've worked.
I'll say as much when I send in the report. Then we'll see how much the State will ask for
the title-deeds."

Isak--it was hard to say how he felt about it. Half as if he were not ill-pleased after all
to find his land valued at a big price, after the work he had done. As for the hundred Daler,
he could manage to pay that off, no doubt, in course of time. He made no further business about
it; he could go on working as he had done hitherto, clearing and cultivating, fetching loads
of timber from the untended woodlands. Isak was not a man to look about anxiously for what
might come; he worked.

Inger thanked the Lensmand, and hoped he would put in a word for them with the State.

"Yes, yes. But I've no say in the matter myself. All I have to do is to say what I have seen,
and what I think. How old is the youngest there?"

"Six months as near as can be."

"Boy or girl?"

"Boy."

The Lensmand was no tyrant, but shallow, and not overconscientious. He ignored his assistant,
Brede Olsen, who by virtue of his office should be an expert in such affairs; the matter was
settled out of hand, by guesswork. Yet for Isak and his wife it was a serious matter enough--ay,
and for who should come after them, maybe for generations. But he set it all down, as it pleased
him, making a document of it on the spot. Withal a kindly man; he took a bright coin from his
pocket and gave it to little Sivert; then he nodded to the others and went out to the sledge.

Suddenly he asked: "What do you call the place?"

"Call it?"

"Yes. What's its name? We must have a name for it"

No one had ever thought of that before. Inger and Isak looked at each other.

"Sellanraa?" said the Lensmand. He must have invented it out of his own head; maybe it was
not a name at all. But he only nodded, and said again, "Sellanraa!" and drove off.

Settled again, at a guess, anything would do. The name, the price, the boundaries....

Some weeks later, when Isak was down in the village, he heard rumours of some business about
Lensmand Geissler; there had been an inquiry about some moneys he could not account for, and
the matter had been reported to his superior. Well, such things did happen; some folk were
content to stumble through life anyhow, till they ran up against those that walked.

Then one day Isak went down with a load of wood, and coming back, who should drive with him
on his sledge but Lensmand Geissler. He stepped out from the trees, on to the road, waved his
hand, and simply said: "Take me along, will you?"

They drove for a while, neither speaking. Once the passenger took a flask from his pocket and
drank; offered it to Isak, who declined. "I'm afraid this journey will upset my stomach," said
the Lensmand.

He began at once to talk about Isak's deal in land. "I sent off the report at once, with a
strong recommendation on my own account. Sellanraa's a nice name. As a matter of fact, they
ought to let you have the place for nothing, wouldn't do to say so, of course. If I had, they'd
only have taken offence and put their own price on it. I suggested fifty Daler."

"Ho. Fifty, you said? Not a hundred?"

The Lensmand puckered his brow and thought a moment. "As far as I recollect it was fifty. Yes...."

"And where will you be going, now?" asked Isak.

"Over to Vesterbotten, to my wife's people."

"'Tis none so easy that way at this time of year."

"I'll manage. Couldn't you go with me a bit?"

"Ay; you shan't go alone."

They came to the farm, and the Lensmand stayed the night, sleeping in the little room. In the
morning, he brought out his flask again, and remarked: "I'm sure this journey's going to upset
my stomach." For the rest, he was much the same as last time, kindly, decisive, but fussy,
and little concerned about his own affairs. Possibly it might not be so bad after all. Isak
ventured to point out that the hillside was not all under cultivation yet, but only some small
squares here and there. The Lensmand took the information in a curious fashion. "I knew that
well enough, of course, last time I was here, when I made out the report. But Brede, the fellow
who was with me, he didn't see it. Brede, he's no earthly good. But they work it out by table.
With all the ground as I entered it, and only so few loads of hay, so few bushels of potatoes,
they'll say at once that it must be poor soil, cheap soil, you understand. I did my best for
you, and you take my word for it, that'll do the trick. It's two and thirty thousand fellows
of your stamp the country wants."

The Lensmand nodded and turned to Inger. "How old's the youngest?"

"He's just three-quarters of a year."

"And a boy, is he?"

"Yes."

"But you must see and get that business settled as soon as ever you can," said he to Isak again.
"There's another man wants to purchase now, midway between here and the village, and as soon
as he does, this'll be worth more. You buy now, get the place first, and let the price go up
after--that way, you'll be getting some return for all the work you've put into it. It was
you that started cultivating here at all. 'Twas all wilderness before."

They were grateful for his advice, and asked if it was not he himself that would arrange the
matter. He answered that he had done all he could; everything now depended on the State. "I'm
going across to Vesterbotten now, and I shan't be coming back," he told them straightforwardly.

He gave Inger an Ort, and that was overmuch. "You can take a bit of meat down to my people
in the village next time you're killing," said he. "My wife'll pay you. Take a cheese or so,
too, any time you can. The children like it."

Isak went with him up over the hills; it was firm, good going on the higher ground, easier
than below. Isak received a whole Daler.

In that manner was it Lensmand Geissler left the place, and he did not come back. No great
loss, folk said, he being looked on as a doubtful personage, an adventurer. Not that he hadn't
the knowledge; he was a learned man, and had studied this and that, but he lived too freely,
and spent other people's money. It came out later that he had left the place after a sharp
reprimand from his superior, Amtmand Pleym; but nothing was done about his family officially,
and they went on living there, a good while after--his wife and three children. And it was
not long before the money unaccounted for was sent from Sweden, so that Geissler's wife and
children could not be said to be held as hostages, but stayed on simply because it pleased them.

Isak and Inger had no cause to complain of Geissler's dealings with them, not by a long way.
And there was no saying what sort of man his successor would be--perhaps they would have to
go over the whole business again!

The Amtmand [Footnote: Governor of a country] sent one of his clerks up to the village, to
be the new Lensmand. He was a man about forty, son of a local magistrate, by name Heyerdahl.
He had lacked the means to go to the university and enter the service that way; instead, he
had been constrained to sit in an office, writing at a desk, for fifteen years. He was unmarried,
having never been able to afford a wife. His chief, Amtmand Pleym, had inherited him from his
predecessor, and paid him the same miserable wage that had been given before; Heyerdahl took
it, and went on writing at his desk as before.

Isak plucked up his courage, and went to see him.

"Documents in the Sellanraa case ...? Here they are, just returned from the Department. They
want to know all sorts of things--the whole business is in a dreadful muddle, as Geissler left
it," said the official. "The Department wishes to be informed as to whether any considerable
crop of marketable berries is to be reckoned with on the estate. Whether there is any heavy
timber. Whether possibly there may be ores or metals of value an the hills adjoining. Mention
is made of water, but nothing stated as to any fishery in the same. This Geissler appears to
have furnished certain information, but he's not to be trusted, and here have I to go through
the whole affair again after him. I shall have to come up to Sellanraa and make a thorough
inspection and valuation. How many miles is it up there? The Department, of course, requires
that adequate boundaries be drawn: yes, we shall have to beat the bounds in due order."

"'Tis no light business setting up boundaries this time of year," said Isak. "Not till later
on in the summer."

"Anyhow, it'll have to be done. The Department can't wait all through the summer for an answer.
I'll come up myself as soon as I can get away. I shall have to be out that way in any case,
there's another plot of land a man's inquiring about."

"Will that be him that's going to buy up between me and the village?"

"Can't say, I'm sure. Very likely. As a matter of fact, it's a man from the office here, my
assistant in the office. He was here in Geissler's time. Asked Geissler about it, I understand,
but Geissler put him off; said he couldn't cultivate a hundred yards of land. So he sent in
an application to the Amtmand, and I'm instructed to see the matter through. More of Geissler's
muddling!"

Lensmand Heyerdahl came up to the farm, and brought with him his assistant, Brede. They had
got thoroughly wet crossing the moors, and wetter still they were before they'd finished tramping
the boundary lines through melting snow and slush up and down the hills. The Lensmand set to
work zealously the first day, but on the second he had had enough, and contented himself with
standing still for the most part, pointing and shouting directions. There was no further talk
about prospecting for ore in the "adjoining hills," and as for marketable berries--they would
have a look at the moors on the way back, he said.

The Department requested information on quite a number of points--there were tables for all
sorts of things, no doubt. The only thing that seemed reasonable was the question of timber.
Certainly, there was some heavy timber, and that within the limits of Isak's proposed holding,
but not enough to reckon with for sale; no more than would be required to keep up the place.
Even if there had been timber in plenty, who was to carry it all the many miles to where it
could be sold? Only Isak, trundling like a tub-wheel through the forest in winter-time carting
some few heavy sticks down to the village, to bring back planks and boards for his building.

Geissler, the incomprehensible, had, it seemed, sent in a report which was not easily upset.
Here was his successor going through the whole thing again, trying to find mistakes and blatant
inaccuracies--but all in vain. It was noticeable that he consulted his assistant at every turn,
and paid heed to what he said, which was not Geissler's way at all. That same assistant, moreover,
must presumably have altered his own opinion, since he was now a would-be purchaser himself
of lands from the common ground held by the State.

"What about the price?" asked the Lensmand.

"Fifty Daler is the most they can fairly ask of any buyer," answered the expert.

Lensmand Heyerdahl drew up his report in elegant phrasing. Geissler had written: "The man will
also have to pay land tax every year; he cannot afford to pay more for the place than fifty
Daler, in annual instalments over ten years. The State can accept his offer, or take away his
land and the fruits of his work." Heyerdahl wrote: "He now humbly begs to submit this application
to the Department: that he be allowed to retain this land, upon which, albeit without right
of possession, he has up to this present effected considerable improvements, for a purchase
price of 50--fifty--Speciedaler, the amount to be paid in annual instalments as may seem fit
to the Department to apportion the same."

Lensmand Heyerdahl promised Isak to do his best. "I hope to succeed in procuring you possession
of the estate," he said.

Chapter VI

The big bull is to be sent away. It has grown to an enormous beast, and costs too much to feed;
Isak is taking it down to the village, to bring up a suitable yearling in exchange.

It was Inger's idea. And Inger had no doubt her own reasons for getting Isak out of the place
on that particular day.

"If you are going at all, you'd better go today," she said. "The bull's in fine condition;
'twill fetch a good price at this time of year. You take him down to the village, and they'll
send him to be sold in town--townsfolk pay anything for their meat."

"Ay," says Isak.

"If only the beast doesn't make trouble on the way down."

Isak made no answer.

"But he's been out and about now this last week, and getting used to things."

Isak was silent. He took a big knife, hung it in a sheath at his waist, and led out the bull.

A mighty beast it was, glossy-coated and terrible to look at, swaying at the buttocks as it
walked. A trifle short in the leg; when it ran, it crushed down the undergrowth with its chest;
it was like a railway engine. Its neck was huge almost to deformity; there was the strength
of an elephant in that neck.

"If only he doesn't get mad with you," said Inger.

Isak thought for a moment. "Why, if as he takes it that way, I'll just have to slaughter him
half-way and carry down the meat."

Inger sat down on the door-slab. She was in pain; her face was aflame. She had kept her feet
till Isak was gone; now he and the bull were out of sight, and she could give way to a groan
without fear. Little Eleseus can talk a little already; he asks: "Mama hurt? "--"Yes, hurt."
He mimics her, pressing his hands to his sides and groaning. Little Sivert is asleep.

Inger takes Eleseus inside the house, gives him some things to play with on the floor, and
gets into bed herself. Her time was come. She is perfectly conscious all the while, keeps an
eye on Eleseus, glances at the clock on the wall to see the time. Never a cry, hardly a movement;
the struggle is in her vitals--a burden is loosened and glides from her. Almost at the same
moment she hears a strange cry in the bed, a blessed little voice; poor thing, poor little
thing ... and now she cannot rest, but lifts herself up and looks down. What is it? Her face
is grey and blank in a moment, without expression or intelligence; a groan is heard; unnatural,
impossible--a choking gasp.

She slips back on the bed. A minute passes; she cannot rest, the little cry down there in the
bed grows louder, she raises herself once more, and sees--O God, the direst of all! No mercy,
no hope--and this a girl!

Isak could not have gone more than a couple of miles or so. It was hardly an hour since he
had left. In less than ten minutes Inger had borne her child and killed it....

Isak came back on the third day, leading a half-starved yearling bull. The beast could hardly
walk; it had been a long business getting up to the place at all.

"How did you get on?" asked Inger. She herself was ill and miserable enough.

Isak had managed very well. True, the big bull had been mad the last two miles or so, and he
had to tie it up and fetch help from the village. Then, when he got back, it had broken loose
and took a deal of time to find. But he had managed somehow, and had sold for a good price
to a trader in the village, buying up for butchers in the town. "And here's the new one," said
Isak. "Let the children come and look."

Any addition to the live stock was a great event. Inger looked at the bull and felt it over,
asked what it had cost; little Sivert was allowed to sit on its back. "I shall miss the big
one, though," said Inger. "So glossy and fine he was. I do hope they'll kill him nicely."

It was the busy season now, and there was work enough. The animals were let loose; in the empty
shed were cases and bins of potatoes left to grow. Isak sowed more corn this year than last,
and did all he could to get it nicely down. He made beds for carrots and turnips, and Inger
sowed the seeds. All went on as before.

Inger went about for some time with a bag of hay under her dress, to hide any change in her
figure, taking out a little from time to time, and finally discarding the bag altogether. At
last, one day, Isak noticed something, and asked in surprise:

"Why, how's this? Hasn't anything happened? I thought...."

"No. Not this time."

"Ho. Why, what was wrong?

"'Twas meant to be so, I suppose. Isak, how long d'you think it'll take you to work over all
this land of ours?"

"Yes, but ... you mean you had your trouble--didn't go as it should?"

"Ay, that was it--yes."

"But yourself--you're not hurt anyway after it?"

"No. Isak, I've been thinking, we ought to have a pig."

Isak was not quick to change the subject that way. He was silent a little, then at last he
said: "Ay, a pig. I've thought of that myself each spring. But we'll need to have more potatoes
first, and more of the small, and a bit of corn beside; we've not enough to feed a pig. We'll
see how this year turns out."

"But it would be nice to have a pig."

"Ay."

Days pass, rain comes, fields and meadows are looking well--oh, the year will turn out well,
never fear! Little happenings and big, all in their turn: food, sleep, and work; Sundays, with
washing of faces and combing of hair, and Isak sitting about in a new red shirt of Inger's
weaving and sewing. Then an event, a happening of note in the ordinary round: a sheep, roaming
with her lamb, gets caught in a cleft among the rocks. The others come home in the evening.
Inger at once sees there are two missing, and out goes Isak in search. Isak's first thought
is to be thankful it is Sunday, so he is not called away from his work and losing time. He
tramps off--there is an endless range of ground to be searched; and, meanwhile, the house is
all anxiety. Mother hushes the children with brief words; there are two sheep missing, and
they must be good. All share the feeling; what has happened is a matter for the whole little
community. Even the cows know that something unusual is going on, and give tongue in their
own fashion, for Inger goes out every now and then, calling aloud towards the woods, though
it is near night. It is an event in the wilderness, a general misfortune. Now and again she
gives a long-drawn hail to Isak, but there is no answer; he must be out of hearing.

Where are the sheep--what can have come to them? Is there a bear abroad? Or have the wolves
come down over the hills from Sweden and Finland? Neither, as it turns out. Isak finds the
ewe stuck fast in a cleft of rock, with a broken leg and lacerated udder. It must have been
there some time, for, despite its wounds, the poor thing has nibbled the grass down to the
roots as far as it could reach. Isak lifts the sheep and sets it free; it falls to grazing
at once. The lamb makes for its mother and sucks away--a blessed relief for the wounded udder
to be emptied now.

Isak gathers stones and fills up the dangerous cleft; a wicked place; it shall break no more
sheep's thighs! Isak wears leather braces; he takes them off now and fastens them round the
sheep's middle, as a support for the udder. Then, lifting the animal on his shoulders, he sets
off home, the lamb at his heels.

After that--splints and tar bandages. In a few days' time the patient begins twitching the
foot of the wounded leg; it is the fracture aching as it grows together. Ay, all things getting
well again--until next time something happens.

The daily round; little matters that are all important to the settler-folk themselves. Oh,
they are not trifles after all, but things of fate, making for their happiness and comfort
and well-being, or against them.

In the slack time between the seasons, Isak smooths down some new tree-trunks he has thrown;
to be used for something or other, no doubt. Also he digs out a number of useful stones and
gets them down to the house; as soon as there are stones enough, he builds a wall of them.
A year or so back, Inger would have been curious, wondering what her man was after with all
this--now, she seemed for the most part busied with her own work, and asked no questions. Inger
is busy as ever, but she has taken to singing, which is something new, and she is teaching
Eleseus an evening prayer; this also is something new. Isak misses her questioning; it was
her curiosity and her praise of all he did that made him the contented man, the incomparable
man he was. But now, she goes by, saying nothing, or at most with a word or so that he is working
himself to death. "She's troubled after that last time, for all she says," thinks Isak to himself.

Oline comes over to visit them once more. If all had been as before she would have been welcome,
but now it is different. Inger greets her from the first with some ill-will; be it what it
may, there is something that makes Inger look on her as an enemy.

"I'd half a thought I'd be coming just at the right time again," says Oline, with delicate meaning.

"How d'you mean?"

"Why, for the third one to be christened. How is it with you now?"

"Nay," says Inger. "For that matter you might have saved yourself the trouble."

"Ho."

Oline falls to praising the children, so fine and big they've grown; and Isak taking over more
ground, and going to build again, by the look of things--there's no end to things with them;
a wonderful place, and hard to find its like. "And what is he going to build this time?"

"Ask him yourself," says Inger. "I don't know."

"Nay," says Oline. "'Tis no business of mine. I just looked along to see how things were with
you here; it's a pleasure and delight for me to see. As for Goldenhorns, I'll not ask nor speak
of her--she's fallen into proper ways, as any one can see."

They talk for a while companionably; Inger is no longer harsh. The clock on the wall strikes
with its sweet little note. Oline looks up with tears in her eyes; never in all her humble
life did she hear such a thing--'tis like church and organ music, says Oline. Inger feels herself
rich and generous-minded towards her poor relation, and says: "Come into the next room and
see my loom."

Oline stays all day. She talks to Isak, and praises all his doings. "And I hear you've bought
up the land for miles on every side. Couldn't you have got it for nothing, then? There's none
as I can see would take it from you."

Isak had been feeling the need of praise, and is the better for it now. Feels a man again.
"I'm buying from the Government," says Isak.

"Ay, Government. But they've no call to be grasping in a deal, surely? What are you building now?"

"Why, I don't know. Nothing much, anyway."

"Ay, you're getting on; building and getting on you are. Painted doors to the house, and a
clock on the wall--'tis a new grand house you're building, I suspect."

"You, with your foolish talk ..." says Isak. But he is pleased all the same, and says to Inger:
"Couldn't you make a bit of a dish of nice cream custard for one that comes a-visiting?"

"That I can't," says Inger, "for I've churned all there was."

"'Tis no foolish talk," puts in Oline hurriedly; "I'm but a simple woman asking to know. And
if it's not a new grand house, why, 'twill be a new big barn, I dare say; and why not? With
all these fields and meadow lands, fine and full of growth; ay, and full of milk and honey,
as the Bible says."

Isak asks: "How's things looking your way--crops and the like?"

"Why, 'tis there as it is till now. If only the Lord don't set fire to it all again this year,
and burn up the lot--Heaven forgive me I should say the word. 'Tis all in His hand and almighty
power. But we've nothing our parts that's any way like this place of yours to compare, and
that's the solemn truth."

Inger asks after other relatives, her Uncle Sivert in particular. He is the great man of the
family, and owns rich fisheries; 'tis almost a wonder how he can find a way to spend all he
has. The women talk of Uncle Sivert, and Isak and his doings somehow drop out of sight; no
one asks any more about his building now, so at last he says:

"Well, if you want to know, 'tis a bit of a barn with a threshing-floor I'm trying to get set up."

"Just as I thought," says Oline. "Folk with real sound sense in their heads, they do that way.
Fore-thought and back-thought and all as it should be. There's not a pot nor pitcher in the
place you haven't thought of. A threshing-floor, you said?"

Isak is a child. Oline's flattering words go to his head, and he answers something foolishly
with fine words: "As to that new house of mine, there must be a threshing-floor in the same,
necessarily. 'Tis my intention so."

"A threshing-floor?" says Oline, wagging her head.

"And where's the sense of growing corn on the place if we've nowhere to thresh it?"

"Ay, 'tis as I say, not a thing as could be but you have it all there in your head."

Inger is suddenly out of humour again. The talk between the other two somehow displeases her,
and she breaks in:

"Cream custard indeed! And where's the cream to come from? Fish it up in the river, maybe?"

Oline hastens to make peace. "Inger, Lord bless you, child, don't speak of such a thing. Not
a word of cream nor custard either--an old creature like me that does but idle about from house
to neighbour...!"

Isak sits for a while, then up, and saying suddenly: "Here am I doing nothing middle of the
day, and stones to fetch and carry for that wall of mine!"

"Ay, a wall like that'll need a mighty lot of stone, to be sure."

"Stone?" says Isak. "Tis like as if there'd never be enough."

When Isak is gone, the two womenfolk get on nicely together for a while; they sit for hours
talking of this and that. In the evening, Oline must go out and see how their live stock has
grown: cows, a bull, two calves, and a swarm of sheep and goats. "I don't know where it'll
ever end," says Oline, with her eyes turned heavenwards.

And Oline stays the night.

Next morning she goes off again. Once more she has a bundle of something with her. Isak is
working in the quarry, and she goes another way round, so that he shall not see.

Two hours later, Oline comes back again, steps into the house, and asks at once: "Where is Isak?"

Inger is washing up. Oline should have passed by the quarry where Isak was at work, and the
children with him; Inger at once guesses something wrong.

"Isak? What d'you want with him?"

"Want with him?--why, nothing. Only I didn't see him to say good-bye."

Silence. Oline sits down on a bench without being asked, drops down as if her legs refuse to
carry her. Her manner is intended to show that something serious is the matter; she is overcome.

Inger can control herself no longer. Her face is all terror and fury as she says:

"I saw what you sent me by Os-Anders. Ay, 'twas a nice thing to send!"

"Why ... what...?"

"That hare."

"What do you mean?" asks Oline in a strangely gentle voice.

"Ah, don't deny it!" cries Inger, her eyes wild. "I'll break your face in with this ladle here--see
that!"

Struck her? Ay, she did so. Oline took the first blow without falling, and only cried out:
"Mind what you're doing, woman! I know what I know about you and your doings!" Inger strikes
again, gets Oline down to the floor, falls on her there, and thrusts her knees into her.

"D'you mean to murder me?" asks Oline. The terrible woman with the hare-lip was kneeling on
her, a great strong creature armed with a huge wooden ladle, heavy as a club. Oline was bruised
already, and bleeding, but still sullenly refusing to cry out. "So you're trying to murder me too!"

"Ay, kill you," says Inger, striking again. "There! I'll see you dead before I've done with
you." She was certain of it now. Oline knew her secret; nothing mattered now. "I'll spoil your
beastly face."

"Beastly face?" gasps Oline. "Huh! Look to your own. With the Lord His mark on it!"

Oline is hard, and will not give in; Inger is forced to give over the blows that are exhausting
her own strength. But she threatens still--glares into the other's eyes and swears she has
not finished with her yet. "There's more to come, ay, more, more. Wait till I get a knife.
I'll show you!"

She gets on her feet again, and moves as if to look for a knife, a table knife. But now her
fury is past its worst, and she falls back on curses and abuse. Oline heaves herself up to
the bench again, her face all blue and yellow, swollen and bleeding; she wipes the hair from
her forehead, straightens her kerchief, and spits; her mouth too is bruised and swollen.

"You devil!" she says.

"You've been nosing about in the woods!" cries Inger. "That's what you've been doing. You've
found that little bit of a grave there. Better if you'd dug one for yourself the same time."

"Ay, you wait," says Oline, her eyes glowing revengefully. "I'll say no more--but you wait--there'll
be no fine two-roomed house for you, with musical clocks and all."

"You can't take it from me, anyway!"

"Ay, you wait. You'll see what Oline can do."

And so they keep on. Oline does not curse, and hardly raises her voice; there is something
almost gentle in her cold cruelty, but she is bitterly dangerous. "Where's that bundle? I left
it in the woods. But you shall have it back--I'll not own your wool."

"Ho, you think I've stolen it, maybe."

"Ah, you know best what you've done."

So back and forth again about the wool. Inger offers to show the very sheep it was cut from.
Oline asks quietly, smoothly: "Ay, but who knows where you got the first sheep to start with?"

Inger names the place and people where her first sheep were out to keep with their lambs. "And
you mind and care and look to what you're saying," says she threateningly. "Guard your mouth,
or you'll be sorry."

"Ha ha ha!" laughs Oline softly. Oline is never at a loss, never to be silenced. "My mouth,
eh? And what of your own, my dear?" She points to Inger's hare-lip, calling her a ghastly sight
for God and man.

Inger answers furiously, and Oline being fat, she calls her a lump of blubber--"a lump of dog's
blubber like you. You sent me a hare--I'll pay you for that."

"Hare again?" says Oline. "If I'd no more guilt in anything than I have about that hare. What
was it like?"

"What was it like? Why, what's a hare always like?"

"Like you. The very image."

"Out with you--get out!" shrieks Inger.

"'Twas you sent Os-Anders with that hare. I'll have you punished; I'll have you put in prison
for that."

"Prison--was it prison you said?"

"Oh, you're jealous and envious of all you see; you hate me for all the good things I've got,"
says Inger again. "You've lain awake with envy since I got Isak and all that's here. Heavens,
woman, what have I ever done to you? Is it my fault that your children never got on in the
world, and turned out badly, every one of them? You can't bear the sight of mine, because they're
fine and strong, and better named than yours. Is it my fault they're prettier flesh and blood
than yours ever were?"

If there was one thing could drive Oline to fury it was this. She had been a mother many times,
and all she had was her children, such as they were; she made much of them, and boasted of
them, told of great things they had never really done, and hid their faults.

"What's that you're saying?" answered Oline. "Oh that you don't sink in your grave for shame!
My children! They were a bright host of angels compared with yours. You dare to speak of my
children? Seven blessed gifts of God they were from they were little, and all grown up now
every one. You dare to speak...."

"What about Lise, that was sent to prison?" asks Inger.

"For never a thing. She was as innocent as a flower," answers Oline. "And she's in Bergen now;
lives in a town and wears a hat--but what about you?"

"What about Nils--what did they say of him?"

"Oh, I'll not lower myself.... But there's one of yours now lying buried out there in the woods--what
did you do to it, eh?"

"Now ...! One-two-three--out you go!" shrieks Inger again, and makes a rush at Oline.

But Oline does not move, does not even rise to her feet. Her stolid indifference paralyses
Inger, who draws back, muttering: "Wait till I get that knife."

"Don't trouble," says Oline. "I'm going. But as for you, turning your own kin out of doors
one-two-three.... Nay, I'll say no more."

"Get out of this, that's all you need to do!"

But Oline is not gone yet. The two of them fall to again with words and abuse, a long bout
of it again, and when the clock strikes half of the hour, Oline laughs scornfully, making Inger
wilder than ever. At last both calm down a little, and Oline makes ready to go. "I've a long
road before me," says she, "and it's late enough to be starting. It wouldn't ha' been amiss
to have had a bite with me on the way...."

Inger makes no answer. She has come to her senses again now, and pours out water in a basin
for Oline to wash. "There--if you want to tidy yourself," she says. Oline too thinks it as
well to make herself as decent as may be, but cannot see where the blood is, and washes the
wrong places. Inger looks on for a while, and then points with her finger.

"There--wash there too, over your eye. No, not that, the other one; can't you see where I'm
pointing?"

"How can I see which one you're pointing at," answers Oline.

"And there's more there, by your mouth. Are you afraid of water?--it won't bite you!"

In the end, Inger washes the patient herself, and throws her a towel.

"What I was going to say," says Oline, wiping herself, and quite peaceable now. "About Isak
and the children--how will they get over this?"

"Does he know?" asks Inger.

"Know? He came and saw it."

"What did he say?"

"What could he say? He was speechless, same as me."

Silence.

"It's all your fault," wails Inger, beginning to cry.

"My fault? I wish I may never have more to answer for!"

"I'll ask Os-Anders, anyhow, be sure of that."

"Ay, do."

They talk it all over quietly, and Oline seems less revengeful now. An able politician, is
Oline, and quick to find expedients; she speaks now as if in sympathy--what a terrible thing
it will be for Isak and the children when it is found out!

"Yes," says Inger, crying again. "I've thought and thought of that night and day." Oline thinks
she might be able to help, and be a saviour to them in distress. She could come and stay on
the place to look after things, while Inger is in prison.

Inger stops crying; stops suddenly as if to listen and take thought. "No, you don't care for
the children."

"Don't care for them, don't I? How could you say such a thing?"

"Ah, I know...."

"Why, if there's one thing in the world I do feel and care for, 'tis children."

"Ay, for your own," says Inger. "But how would you be with mine? And when I think how you sent
that hare for nothing else but to ruin me altogether--oh, you're no better than a heap of wickedness!"

"Am I?" says Oline. "Is it me you mean?"

"Yes, 'tis you I mean," says Inger, crying; "you've been a wicked wretch, you have, and I'll
not trust you. And you'd steal all the wool, too, if you did come. And all the cheeses that'd
go to your people instead of mine...."

"Oh, you wicked creature to think of such a thing!" answers Oline.

Inger cries, and wipes her eyes, saying a word or so between. Oline does not try to force her.
If Inger does not care about the idea, 'tis all the same to her. She can go and stay with her
son Nils, as she has always done. But now that Inger is to be sent away to prison, it will
be a hard time for Isak and the innocent children; Oline could stay on the place and give an
eye to things. "You can think it over," says Oline.

Inger has lost the day. She cries and shakes her head and looks down. She goes out as if walking
in her sleep, and makes up a parcel of food for Oline to take with her. "'Tis more than's worth
your while," says Oline.

"You can't go all that way without a bite to eat," says Inger.

When Oline has gone, Inger steals out, looks round, and listens. No, no sound from the quarry.
She goes nearer, and hears the children playing with little stones. Isak is sitting down, holding
the crowbar between his knees, and resting on it like a staff. There he sits.

Inger steals away into the edge of the wood. There was a spot where she had set a little cross
in the ground; the cross is thrown down now, and where it stood the turf has been lifted, and
the ground turned over. She stoops down and pats the earth together again with her hands. And
there she sits.

She had come out of curiosity, to see how far the little grave had been disturbed by Oline;
she stays there now because the cattle have not yet come in for the night. Sits there crying,
shaking her head, and looking down.

Chapter VII

And the days pass.

A blessed time for the soil, with sun and showers of rain; the crops are looking well. The
haymaking is nearly over now, and they have got in a grand lot of hay; almost more than they
can find room for. Some is stowed away under overhanging rocks, in the stable, under the flooring
of the house itself; the shed at the side is emptied of everything to make room for more hay.
Inger herself works early and late, a faithful helper and support. Isak takes advantage of
every fall of rain to put in a spell of roofing on the new barn, and get the south wall at
least fully done; once that is ready, they can stuff in as much hay as they please. The work
is going forward; they will manage, never fear!

And their great sorrow and disaster--ay, it was there, the thing was done, and what it brought
must come. Good things mostly leave no trace, but something always comes of evil. Isak took
the matter sensibly from the first. He made no great words about it, but asked his wife simply:
"How did you come to do it?" Inger made no answer to that. And a little after, he spoke again:
"Strangled it--was that what you did?"

"Yes," said Inger.

"You shouldn't have done that."

"No," she agreed.

"And I can't make out how you ever could bring yourself to do it."

"She was all the same as myself," said Inger.

"How d'you mean?"

"Her mouth."

Isak thought over that for some time. "Ay, well," said he.

And nothing more was said about it at the time; the days went on, peacefully as ever; there
was all the mass of hay to be got in, and a rare heavy crop all round, so that by degrees the
thing slipped into the background of their minds. But it hung over them, and over the place,
none the less. They could not hope that Oline would keep the secret; it was too much to expect.
And even if Oline said nothing, others would speak; dumb witnesses would find a tongue; the
walls of the house, the trees around the little grave in the wood. Os-Anders the Lapp would
throw out hints; Inger herself would betray it, sleeping or waking. They were prepared for
the worst.

Isak took the matter sensibly--what else was there to do? He knew now why Inger had always
taken care to be left alone at every birth; to be alone with her fears of how the child might
be, and face the danger with no one by. Three times she had done the same thing. Isak shook
his head, touched with pity for her ill fate--poor Inger. He learned of the coming of the Lapp
with the hare, and acquitted her. It led to a great love between them, a wild love; they drew
closer to each other in their peril. Inger was full of a desperate sweetness towards him, and
the great heavy fellow, lumbering carrier of burdens, felt a greed and an endless desire for
her in himself. And Inger, for all that she wore hide shoes like a Lapp, was no withered little
creature as the Lapland women are, but splendidly big. It was summer now, and she went about
barefooted, with her naked legs showing almost to the knee--Isak could not keep his eyes from
those bare legs.

All through the summer she went about singing bits of hymns, and she taught Eleseus to say
prayers; but there grew up in her an unchristian hate of all Lapps, and she spoke plainly enough
to any that passed. Some one might have sent them again; like as not they had a hare in their
bag as before; let them go on their way, and no more about it.

"A hare? What hare?"

"Ho, you haven't heard perhaps what Os-Anders he did that time?"

"No."

"Well, I don't care who knows it--he came up here with a hare, when I was with child."

"Dear, and that was a dreadful thing! And what happened?"

"Never you mind what happened, just get along with you, that's all. Here's a bite of food,
and get along."

"You don't happen to have an odd bit of leather anywhere, I could mend my shoe with?"

"No I But I'll give you a bit of stick if you don't get out!"

Now a Lapp will beg as humbly as could be, but say no to him, and he turns bad, and threatens.
A pair of Lapps with two children came past the place; the children were sent up to the house
to beg, and came back and said there was no one to be seen about the place. The four of them
stood there a while talking in their own tongue, then the man went up to see. He went inside,
and stayed. Then his wife went up, and the children after; all of them stood inside the doorway,
talking Lapp. The man puts his head in the doorway and peeps through into the room; no one
there either. The clock strikes the hour, and the whole family stand listening in wonder.

Inger must have had some idea there were strangers about; she comes hurrying down the hillside,
and seeing Lapps, strange Lapps into the bargain, asks them straight out what they are doing
there. "What do you want in here? Couldn't you see there was no one at home?"

"H'm ..." says the man.

"Get out with you," says Inger again, "and go on your way."

The Lapps move out slowly, unwillingly. "We were just listening to that clock of yours," says
the man; "'tis a wonder to hear, that it is."

"You haven't a bit of bread to spare?" says his wife.

"Where do you come from?" asks Inger.

"From the water over beyond. We've been walking all night."

"And where are you going to now?"

"Across the hills."

Inger makes up some food for them; when she comes out with it, the woman starts begging again:
a bit of stuff for a cap, a tuft of wool, a stump of cheese--anything. Inger has no time to
waste, Isak and the children are in the hayfield. "Be off with you now," she says.

The woman tries flattery. "We saw your place up here, and the cattle--a host of them, like
the stars in the sky."

"Ay, a wonder," says the man. "You haven't a pair of old shoes to give away to needy folk?"

Inger shuts the door of the house and goes back to her work on the hillside. The man called
after her--she pretended not to hear, and walked on unheeding. But she heard it well enough:
"You don't want to buy any hares, maybe?"

There was no mistaking what he had said. The Lapp himself might have spoken innocently enough;
some one had told him, perhaps. Or he might have meant it ill. Be that as it may, Inger took
it as a warning--a message of what was to come....

The days went on. The settlers were healthy folk; what was to come would come; they went about
their work and waited. They lived close to each other like beasts of the forest; they slept
and ate; already the year was so far advanced that they had tried the new potatoes, and found
them large and floury. The blow that was to fall--why did it not come? It was late in August
already, soon it would be September; were they to be spared through the winter? They lived
in a constant watchfulness; every night they crept close together in their cave, thankful that
the day had passed without event. And so the time went on until one day in October, when the
Lensmand came up with a man and a bag. The Law stepped in through their doorway.

The investigation took some time. Inger was called up and examined privately; she denied nothing.
The grave in the wood was opened, and its contents removed, the body being sent for examination.
The little body--it was dressed in Eleseus' christening robe, and a cap sewn over with beads.

Isak seemed to find speech again. "Ay," said he, "it's as bad as well can be with us now. I've
said before--you ought never to have done it."

"No," said Inger.

"How did you do it?"

Inger made no answer.

"That you could find it in your heart...."

"She was just the same as myself to look at. And so I took and twisted her face round."

Isak shook his head slowly.

"And then she was dead," went on Inger, beginning to cry.

Isak was silent for a while. "Well, well, 'tis too late to be crying over it now," said he.

"She had brown hair," sobbed Inger, "there at the back of her head...."

And again no more was said.

Time went on as before. Inger was not locked up; the law was merciful. Lensmand Heyerdahl asked
her questions just as he might have spoken to any one, and only said, "It's a great pity such
things should happen at all." Inger asked who had informed against her, but the Lensmand answered
that it was no one in particular; many had spoken of the matter, and he had heard of it from
several quarters. Had she not herself said something about it to some Lapps?

Inger--ay, she had told some Lapps about Os-Anders, how he came and brought a hare that summer,
and gave her unborn child the hare-lip. And wasn't it Oline who had sent the hare?--The Lensmand
knew nothing about that. But in any case, he could not think of putting down such ignorant
superstition in his report.

"But my mother saw a hare just before I was born," said Inger....

The barn was finished; a great big place it was, with hay-stalls on both sides and a threshing-floor
in the middle. The shed and the other makeshift places were emptied now, and all the hay brought
into the barn; the corn was reaped, dried in stacks, and carted in. Inger took up the carrots
and turnips. All their crops were in now. And everything might have been well with them--they
had all they needed. Isak had started on new ground again, before the frost came, to make a
bigger cornfield; Isak was a tiller of the soil. But in November Inger said one day, "She would
have been six months old now, and known us all."

"'Tis no good talking of that now," said Isak.

When the winter came, Isak threshed his corn on the new threshing-floor, and Inger helped him
often, with an arm as quick to the work as his own, while the children played in the haystalls
at the side. It was fine plump grain. Early in the new year the roads were good, and Isak started
carting down his loads of wood to the village; he had his regular customers now, and the summer-dried
wood fetched a good price. One day he and Inger agreed that they should take the fine bull-calf
from Goldenhorns and drive it down to Fru Geissler, with a cheese into the bargain. She was
delighted, and asked how much it cost.

"Nothing," said Isak. "The Lensmand paid for it before."

"Heaven bless him, and did he?" said Fru Geissler, touched at the thought. She sent things
up for Eleseus and Sivert in return--cakes and picture-books and toys. When Isak came back
and Inger saw the things, she turned away and cried.

"What is it?" asked Isak.

"Nothing," answered Inger. "Only--she'd have been just a year now, and able to see it all."

"Ay, but you know how it was with her," said Isak, for comfort's sake. "And after all, it may
be we'll get off easier than we thought. I've found out where Geissler is now."

Inger looked up. "But how's that going to help us?"

"I don't know...."

Then Isak carried his corn to the mill and had it ground, and brought back flour. Then he turned
woodman again, cutting the wood to be ready for next winter. His life was spent in this work
and that, according to the season; from the fields to the woods, and back to the fields again.
He had worked on the place for six years now, and Inger five; all might have been well, if
it were only allowed to last. But it was not. Inger worked at her loom and tended the animals;
also, she was often to be heard singing hymns, but it was a pitiful singing; she was like a
bell without a tongue.

As soon as the roads were passable, she was sent for down to the village to be examined. Isak
had to stay behind. And being there all alone, it came into his mind to go across to Sweden
and find out Geissler; the former Lensmand had been kind to them, and might perhaps still lend
a helping hand some way to the folks at Sellanraa. But when Inger returned, she had asked about
things herself, and learned something of what her sentence was likely to be. Strictly speaking,
it was imprisonment for life, Paragraph I. But ... After all, she had stood up in the court
itself and simply confessed. The two witnesses from the village had looked pityingly at her,
and the judge had put his questions kindly; but for all that, she was no match for the bright
intellects of the law. Lawyers are great men to simple folk; they can quote paragraph this
and section that; they have learned such things by rote, ready to bring out at any moment.
Oh, they are great men indeed. And apart from all this knowledge, they are not always devoid
of sense; sometimes even not altogether heartless. Inger had no cause to complain of the court;
she made no mention of the hare, but when she tearfully explained that she could not be so
cruel to her poor deformed child as to let it live, the magistrate nodded, quietly and seriously.

"But," said he, "think of yourself; you have a hare-lip, and it has not spoilt your life."

"No, thanks be to God," was all she said. She could not tell them of all she had suffered in
secret as a child, as a young girl.

But the magistrate must have understood something of what it meant; he himself had a club-foot,
and could not dance. "As to the sentence," he said, "I hardly know. Really, it should be imprisonment
for life, but ... I can't say, perhaps we might get it commuted, second or third degree, fifteen
to twelve years, or twelve to nine. There's a commission sitting to reform the criminal code,
make it more humane, but the final decision won't be ready yet. Anyhow, we must hope for the
best," said he.

Inger came back in a state of dull resignation; they had not found it necessary to keep her
in confinement meantime. Two months passed; then one evening, when Isak came back from fishing,
the Lensmand and his new assistant had been to Sellanraa.

Inger was cheerful, and welcomed her husband kindly, praising his catch, though it was little
he had brought home.

"What I was going to say--has any one been here?" he asked.

"Any one been? Why, who should there be?"

"There's fresh footmarks outside. Men with boots on."

"Why--there's been no one but the Lensmand and one other."

"What did they want?"

"You know that without asking."

"Did they come to fetch you?"

"Fetch me? No, 'twas only about the sentence. The Lord is kind, 'tis not so bad as I feared."

"Ah," said Isak eagerly. "Not so long, maybe?"

"No. Only a few years."

"How many years?"

"Why, you might think it a lot, maybe. But I'm thankful to God all the same."

Inger did not say how long it would be. Later that evening Isak asked when they would be coming
to fetch her away, but this she could not or would not tell. She had grown thoughtful again,
and talked of what was to come; how they would manage she could not think--but she supposed
they would have to get Oline to come. And Isak had no better plan to offer.

What had become of Oline, by the way? She had not been up this year as she used to do. Was
she going to stay away for ever, now that she had upset everything for them? The working season
passed, but Oline did not come--did she expect them to go and fetch her? She would come loitering
up of herself, no doubt, the great lump of blubber, the monster.

And at last one day she did. Extraordinary person--it was as nothing whatever had occurred
to make ill-feeling between them; she was even knitting a pair of new stockings for Eleseus,
she said.

"Just came up to see how you were getting on over here," said she. And it turned out that she
had brought her clothes and things up in a sack, and left in the woods close by, ready to stay.

That evening Inger took her husband aside and said: "Didn't you say something about seeking
out Geissler? 'Tis in the slack time now."

"Ay," said Isak. "Now that Oline is come, I can go off tomorrow morning, first thing."

Inger was grateful, and thanked him. "And take your money with you," she said--"all you have
in the place."

"Why, can't you keep the money here?"

"No," said she.

Inger made up a big parcel of food at once, and Isak woke while it was yet night, and got ready
to start. Inger went out on the door-slab to see him off; she did not cry or complain, but
only said:

"They may be coming for me now any day."

"You don't know when?"

"No, I can't say. And I don't suppose it will be just yet, but anyhow.... If only you could
get hold of Geissler, perhaps he might be able to say something."

What could Geissler do to help them now? Nothing. But Isak went.

Inger--oh, she knew, no doubt, more than she had been willing to say. It might be, too, that
she herself had sent for Oline. When Isak came from Sweden, Inger was gone and Oline was there
with the two children.

It was dark news for a homecoming. Isak's voice was louder than usual as he asked: "Is she gone?"

"Ay," said Oline.

"What day was it?"

"The day after you left." And Isak knew now that Inger had got him out of the way on purpose--that
was why she had persuaded him to take the money with him. Oh, but she might have kept a little
for herself, for that long journey!

But the children could think of nothing else but the little pig Isak had brought with him.
It was all he had for his trouble; the address he had was out of date, and Geissler was no
longer in Sweden, but had returned to Norway and was now in Trondhjem. As for the pig, Isak
had carried it in his arms all the way, feeding it with milk from a bottle, and sleeping with
it on his breast among the hills. He had been looking forward to Inger's delight when she saw
it; now, Eleseus and Sivert played with it, and it was a joy to them. And Isak, watching them,
forgot his trouble for the moment. Moreover, Oline had a message from the Lensmand; the State
had at last given its decision in the matter of the land at Sellanraa. Isak had only to go
down to the office and pay the amount. This was good news, and served to keep him from the
worst depth of despair. Tired and worn out as he was, he packed up some food in a bag and set
off for the village at once. Maybe he had some little hope of seeing Inger once again before
she left there.

But he was disappointed. Inger was gone--for eight years. Isak felt himself in a mist of darkness
and emptiness; heard only a word here and there of all the Lensmand said--a pity such things
should happen ... hoped it might be a lesson to her ... reform and be a better woman after,
and not kill her children any more!

Lensmand Heyerdahl had married the year before. His wife had no intention of ever being a mother--no
children for her, thank you! And she had none.

"And now," said the Lensmand, "this business about Sellanraa. At last I am in a position to
settle it definitely. The Department is graciously pleased to approve the sale of the land,
more or less according to the terms I suggested."

"H'm," said Isak.

"It has been a lengthy business, but I have the satisfaction of knowing that my endeavours
have not been altogether fruitless. The terms I proposed have been agreed to almost without
exception."

"Without exception," said Isak, and nodded.

"Here are the title-deeds. You can have the transfer registered at the first session."

"Ay," said Isak. "And how much is there to pay?"

"Ten Daler a year. The Department has made a slight alteration here--ten Daler per annum instead
of five. You have no objection to that, I presume?"

"As long as I can manage to pay ..." said Isak.

"And for ten years." Isak looked up, half frightened.

"Those are the terms--the Department insists. Even then, it's no price really for all that
land, cleared and cultivated as it is now."

Isak had the ten Daler for that year--it was the money he had got for his loads of wood, and
for the cheeses Inger had laid by. He paid the amount, and had still a small sum left.

"It's a lucky thing for you the Department didn't get to hear about your wife," said the Lensmand.
"Or they might have sold to some one else."

"Ay," said Isak. He asked about Inger. "Is it true that she's gone away for eight years?"

"That is so. And can't be altered--the law must take its course. As a matter of fact, the sentence
is extraordinarily light. There's one thing you must do now--that is, to set up clear boundaries
between your land and the State's. A straight, direct line, following the marks I set up on
the spot, and entered in my register at the time. The timber cleared from the boundary line
becomes your property. I will come up some time and have a look at what you have done."

Isak trudged back to his home.

Chapter VIII

Time flies? Ay, when a man is growing old. Isak was not old, he had not lost his vigour; the
years seemed long to him. He worked on his land, and let his iron beard grow as it would.

Now and again the monotony of the wilderness was broken by the sight of a passing Lapp, or
by something happening to one of the animals on the place, then all would be as before. Once
there came a number of men at once; they rested at Sellanraa, and had some food and a dish
of milk; they asked Isak and Oline about the path across the hills; they were marking out the
telegraph line, they said. And once came Geissler--Geissler himself, and no other. There he
came, free and easy as ever, walking up from the village, two men with him, carrying mining
tools, pick and spade.

Oh, that Geissler! Unchanged, the same as ever; meeting and greeting as if nothing had happened,
talked to the children, went into the house and came out again, looked over the ground, opened
the doors of cowshed and hayloft and looked in. "Excellent!" said he. "Isak, have you still
got those bits of stone?"

"Bits of stone?" said Isak, wondering.

"Little heavy lumps of stone I saw the boy playing with when I was here once before."

The stones were out in the larder, serving as weights for so many mouse-traps; Isak brought
them in. Geissler and the two men examined them, talking together, tapped them here and there,
weighed them in the hand. "Copper," they said.

"Could you go up with us and show where you found them?" asked Geissler.

They all went up together; it was not far to the place where Isak had found the stones, but
they stayed up in the hills for a couple of days, looking for veins of metal, and firing charges
here and there. They came down to Sellanraa with two bags filled with heavy lumps of stone.

Isak had meanwhile had a talk with Geissler, and told him everything as to his own position:
about the purchase of the land, which had come to a hundred Daler instead of fifty.

"That's a trifle," said Geissler easily. "You've thousands, like as not, on your part of the
hills."

"Ho!" said Isak.

"But you'd better get those title-deeds entered in the register as soon as ever you can."

"Ay."

"Then the State can't come any nonsense about it after, you understand."

Isak understood. "'Tis worst about Inger," he said.

"Ay," said Geissler, and remained thoughtful longer than was usual with him. "Might get the
case brought up again. Set out the whole thing properly; very likely get the sentence reduced
a bit. Or we could put in an application for a pardon, and that would probably come to the
same thing in the end."

"Why, if as that could be done...."

"But it wouldn't do to try for a pardon at once. Have to wait a bit. What was I going to say
... you've been taking things down to my wife--meat and cheese and things--what?"

"Why, as to that, Lensmand paid for all that before."

"Did I, though?"

"And helped us kindly in many a way."

"Not a bit of it," said Geissler shortly. "Here--take this." And he took out some Daler notes.

Geissler was not the man to take things for nothing, that was plain. And he seemed to have
plenty of money about him, from the way his pocket bulged. Heaven only knew if he really had
money or not.

"But she writes all's well and getting on," said Isak, coming back to his one thought.

"What?--Oh, your wife!"

"Ay. And since the girl was born--she's had a girl child, born while she was there. A fine
little one."

"Excellent!"

"Ay, and now they're all as kind as can be, and help her every way, she says."

"Look here," said Geissler, "I'm going to send these bits of stone in to some mining experts,
and find out what's in them. If there's a decent percentage of copper, you'll be a rich man."

"H'm," said Isak. "And how long do you think before we could apply for a pardon?"

"Well, not so very long, perhaps, I'll write the thing for you. I'll be back here again soon.
What was it you said--your wife has had a child since she left here?"

"Yes."

"Then they took her away while she was expecting it. That's a thing they've no right to do."

"Ho!"

"Anyhow, it's one more reason for letting her out earlier."

"Ay, if that could be ..." said Isak gratefully.

Isak knew nothing of the many lengthy writings backward and forward between the different authorities
concerning the woman who was expecting a child. The local authorities had let her go free while
the matter was pending, for two reasons: in the first place, they had no lock-up in the village
where they could keep her, and, in the second place, they wished to be as lenient as possible.
The consequence was something they could not have foreseen. Later, when they had sent to fetch
her away, no one had inquired about her condition, and she herself had said nothing of it.
Possibly she had concealed the matter on purpose, in order to have a child with her during
the years of imprisonment; if she behaved well, she would no doubt be allowed to see it now
and again. Or perhaps she had been merely indifferent, and had gone off carelessly, despite
her state....

Isak worked and toiled, dug ditches and broke new ground, set up his boundary lines between
his land and the State's, and gained another season's stock of timber. But now that Inger was
no longer there to wonder at his doings, he worked more from habit than for any joy in what
he did. And he had let two sessions pass without having his title-deeds registered, caring
little about it; at last, that autumn, he had pulled himself together and got it done. Things
were not as they should be with Isak now. Quiet and patient as ever--yes, but now it was because
he did not care. He got out hides because it had to be done--goatskins and calfskins--steeped
them in the river, laid them in bark, and tanned them after a fashion ready for shoes. In the
winter--at the very first threshing--he set aside his seed corn for the next spring, in order
to have it done; best to have things done and done with; he was a methodical man. But it was
a grey and lonely life; eyah, Herregud! a man without a wife again, and all the rest....

What pleasure was there now in sitting at home Sundays, cleanly washed, with a neat red shirt
on, when there was no one to be clean and neat for! Sundays were the longest days of all, days
when he was forced to idleness and weary thoughts; nothing to do but wander about over the
place, counting up all that should have been done. He always took the children with him, always
carried one on his arm. It was a distraction to hear their chatter, and answer their questions
of everything.

He kept old Oline because there was no one else he could get. And Oline was, after all, of
use in a way. Carding and spinning, knitting stockings and mittens, and making cheese--she
could do all these things, but she lacked Inger's happy touch, and had no heart in her work;
nothing of all she handled was her own. There was a thing Isak had bought once at the village
store, a china pot with a dog's head on the lid. It was a sort of tobacco box, really, and
stood on a shelf. Oline took off the lid and dropped it on the floor. Inger had left behind
some cuttings of fuchsia, under glass. Oline took the glass off and, putting it back, pressed
it down hard and maliciously; next day, all the cuttings were dead. It was not so easy for
Isak to bear with such things; he looked displeased, and showed it, and, as there was nothing
swanlike and gentle about Isak, it may well be that he showed it plainly. Oline cared little
for looks; soft-spoken as ever, she only said: "Now, could I help it?"

"That I can't say," answered Isak. "But you might have left the things alone."

"I'll not touch her flowers again," said Oline. But the flowers were already dead.

Again, how could it be that the Lapps came up to Sellanraa so frequently of late? Os-Anders,
for instance, had no business there at all, he should have passed on his way. Twice in one
summer he came across the hills, and Os-Anders, it should be remembered, had no reindeer to
look to, but lived by begging and quartering himself on other Lapps. As soon as he came up
to the place, Oline left her work and fell to chatting with him about people in the village,
and, when he left, his sack was heavy with no end of things. Isak put up with it for two years,
saying nothing.

Then Oline wanted new shoes again, and he could be silent no longer. It was in the autumn,
and Oline wore shoes every day, instead of going in wooden pattens or rough hide.

"Looks like being fine today," said Isak. "H'm." That was how he began.

"Ay," said Oline.

"Those cheeses, Eleseus," went on Isak again, "wasn't it ten you counted on the shelf this
morning?"

"Ay," said Eleseus.

"Well, there's but nine there now."

Eleseus counted again, and thought for a moment inside his little head; then he said: "Yes,
but then Os-Anders had one to take away; that makes ten."

There was silence for quite a while after that. Then little Sivert must try to count as well,
and says after his brother: "That makes ten."

Silence again. At last Oline felt she must say something.

"Ay, I did give him a tiny one, that's true. I didn't think that could do any harm. But they
children, they're no sooner able to talk than they show what's in them. And who they take after's
more than I can think or guess. For 'tis not your way, Isak, that I do know."

The hint was too plain to pass unchecked. "The children are well enough," said Isak shortly.
"But I'd like to know what good Os-Anders has ever done to me and mine."

"What good?"

"Ay, that's what I said."

"What good Os-Anders ...?"

"Ay, since I'm to give him cheeses in return."

Oline has had time to think, and has her answer ready now.

"Well, now, I wouldn't have thought it of you, Isak, that I wouldn't. Was it me, pray, that
first began with Os-Anders? I wish I may never move alive from this spot if I ever so much
as spoke his name."

Brilliant success for Oline. Isak has to give in, as he has done many a time before.

But Oline had more to say. "And if you mean I'm to go here clean barefoot, with the winter
coming on and all, and never own the like of a pair of shoes, why, you'll please to say so.
I said a word of it three and four weeks gone, that I needed shoes, but never sign of a shoe
to this day, and here I am."

Said Isak: "What's wrong with your pattens, then, that you can't use them?"

"What's wrong with them?" repeats Oline, all unprepared.

"Ay, that's what I'd like to know."

"With my pattens?"

"Ay."

"Well ... and me carding and spinning, and tending cattle and sheep and all, looking after
children here--have you nothing to say to that? I'd like to know; that wife of yours that's
in prison for her deeds, did you let her go barefoot in the snow?"

"She wore her pattens," said Isak. "And for going to church and visiting and the like, why,
rough hide was good enough for her."

"Ay, and all the finer for it, no doubt."

"Ay, that she was. And when she did wear her hide shoes in summer, she did but stuff a wisp
of grass in them, and never no more. But you--you must wear stockings in your shoes all the
year round."

Said Oline: "As for that, I'll wear out my pattens in time, no doubt. I'd no thought there
was any such haste to wear out good pattens all at once." She spake softly and gently, but
with half-closed eyes, the same sly Oline as ever. "And as for Inger," said she, "the changeling,
as we called her, she went about with children of mine and learned both this and that, for
years she did. And this is what we get for it. "What? What do you say? "Asked the most, not understanding these Germanic
wit. And although it received no reply, just laughed.

Maltrana Ojeda, who were in the waist, close to the grotesque characters,
advancing the head as if to understand something in this story.

-
What does Fernando?

... The words have a certain buzz, as if they were poetry.

- Son hallelujah. I do not understand, but I seem silly to make people laugh is good.

Finished reading with a loud trumpeting of the musicians, and the two blacks, abandoning their javelins,
rushed headlong into the pool, doing various sorts of swimming and running long time with
your feet up and head submerged, floating on the surface of the skirt manes. Shouted the smiling
ladies scandal turned their heads some mothers search of their children, to recommend that
they not looked at.

But the calm was soon restored and trust, as it is civilized black, black Protestants, who
wore chaste dissimulation under the loincloth.

His swim through were almost forgotten by the preparations made the grotesque barber. Brought
to light their appliances, and each was greeted with great laughter: a razor blade the size
of a man no less large pliers, which served to start grinding, all painted wood, a brush that was
a broom, with stirring liquid from a tank, throwing handfuls of plaster dust contained be soap.
Sharpened knife on a large piece of cloth held by two apprentices; pliers trying to hunt proved with
them the head of one of blacks that eluded diving into the pool;
appreciated the density of the white paste with a splash bucket broom
asperges of the most overlooked; and good people celebrated with great
rejoicing all his antics.

He started the parade of neophytes. The clerk read names, and were moving between two gendarmes
they should receive baptism, barefoot, with no undergarments suit or a simple pajamas. They were first
class passengers who agreed to take part in the ceremony, and whose presence of the public greeted
with shouts and cheers.

Women laughed with malicious delight to contemplate such a facade to the same gentlemen who strutted on
the promenade or dining room with stretching ceremony.

Only the Germans marched making their first trip to the other hemisphere, friends, traditions, believed
had been disappointed that their interests and reduced their reputation by proposing someone save
this grotesque and painful ceremony.

Ancient custom was to suffer the baptism of line, and they did not give up what law their share.
Moreover, it was an honor and a pleasure to contribute to the amusement of fellow travel at the expense
of the individual.

With the rise in the list of those for a christening was not a German name, the clerk refrains from
repeating and passing to another. They knew the the vessel, by several experiments, that only
the Germanic humor gladly lent these games. Brown people, extremely capable and great fear
of ridicule, taking offenses such as teasing.

The police put the neophyte in the hands of the barber, and he did sit on a ladder the edge
of the pool. The two blacks were moving behind him wetting the back with angry puffs that
made him shudder, while the rapabarbas proceeded to dress. Le smeared with white body, struggling
to support the patient, trying to rid the eyes and mouth from the
torment of the broom.

Pretended to shave with the gruesome navajón; tried introduced between his lips the huge tongs
to extract a tooth, and meanwhile the clerk pronounced the formula of baptism: "By the grace
of god Neptune will hereinafter call ...». And gave him a name: shark, crab, cod, whale, according
to the caricature of himself, nicknames were echoed by the easy laughter of the audience.

Roared
the trumpets at the end of his formula, the clerk, supported her fists barber in the chest
of a neophyte, he pulled the black, and fell back in the pool with a splash splashing over long
distances. Disappeared into the turbid liquid covered of tufts of plaster. Blacks weighed
on him to keep his immersion as possible, and finally resurfaced three made a bunch, struggling
with fierce claws that caused laughter.

And the dubbed out dripping, no other concern to keep his hands clasped on his belly to avoid unseemly
transparencies, carrying traces on their clothes dark of the hands of blacks, while they bore
in their arms faded the white hands marked by the neophyte during the fight.

He was throwing names the clerk, and some, getting no response, the intervention caused law enforcement.
Obeying a sign from the butler, came the gendarmes ridiculous in search of the fugitive throughout
the ship. He was someone who wanted to increase public joy this incident
of his invention.

And when he finally left to catch, appeared, as well as a turtle
in its shell under the turns of wire with which he had fastened his
captors.

The barber was wroth with him, prolonging the barbarous cleaning operations, and free blacks a true
boxing to not let out of the pool.

- Herr Maltrana.

Just said that the clerk, a mad joy spread across the waist, winning practicable balcony central
castle. Even the emigrants from the bow out of his immobility. All which until then had remained
indifferent to men devoid of meaning suddenly broke shouting, they stirred the same as a mob that
invades a scene. "Maltrana! That leaves Maltrana! "The noble women returned to him from above his
eyes and waved hands to obey their wishes.

Dr. Zurita and other Argentines left the waggish tranquility with
which they had seen until then the 'gringos' nonsense' to wave at
Isidro, urging him to give pleasure to the families.

"Ah, brave gaucho! ... See if you made one of his! "Even children enthusiastically slapping.
"Don Isidro! ... That leaves Don Isidro! "The hero stood up, waving with irony and pride at the same
time.

- What cheer! ... Thank you, dear people!

But upon returning to shrink one of the horizontal poles that served
as seat load him and Fernando, modestly hiding behind your friend
requests redoubled fury the public.

Two gendarmes began an advance towards him.

- Are you going to do,
Ojeda, as this ends badly - he said angrily -.

I do not come here to laugh ... The first guy to those who touch me, you loose a Smite.

The butler, discreet, guessing the thoughts of Maltrana beckoned, the police retraced their steps
and the clerk was quick to give another name:

- Herr Doktor Muller.

A burst of joy Germanic erased the last murmurs of disappointment caused by Isidro. The laugh was
general view among the police to "Doktor" - the same as speaking Maltrana Tenerife - great body,
grave of face, with grizzled beard and thick red myopic glasses. Welcomed with a standing ovation
childish laughter mocking the public and sat on the steps of the pool and on top of a chair. "The
duty is duty - seemed with cold eyes say about him -.

Discipline is the foundation of society, and there to adjust to what they ask the most. "

He removed his shoes, placing them carefully, without one past the other an inch; took off his
glasses, gave them to a cabin, as if they were an object of laboratory and without losing its noble
quiet, looking at everyone with eyes wide open vague, started to shed their clothes until the feminine
screams and laughter of the men warned should not proceed.

Ojeda watched the "doktor" with some astonishment.

America was hired by a government to give lessons in chemistry at the university in the country. Enjoyed
some popularity in the laboratory from their homeland ... And was there holding the enjabonaduras
and antics of the barber, shuddering under the dashes of black, without knowing the grotesque
of a situation that had angered others, perhaps pleased to contribute to the delight of the crowd
weary of the monotony Ocean.

Christening the trumpet sounded, and the "Doktor" splashed in the pool, defending of the handfuls
of black ridiculous myopic stunning, majestic by the importance which gave the act and the seriousness
with which walked away dripping dirty clothes and beards After regaining his glasses.

Continued the party with visible decay of curiosity. People marched ship: cabin boys making their
first trip, firemen long navigation to the northern seas had not been in the South. And managers
take extra baptism jokes confianzuda brutality in their heads shaved
and naked torsos of those who were his peers.

Ojeda, during the long ceremony, he had looked many times at the castle practicable balcony Central
Maud expecting to see the ladies leaning out to them.

But the U.S. remained invisible. Finally, when there were no longer neophytes and the grotesque
characters were going to retire, preceded by music, was at one end of the viewpoint of the promenade
deck, hidden behind Mrs. Lowe, looming over his shoulder this the forehead and eyes, you need
to see. Fernando thought maybe Maud watched him for hours without realizing it this, and it caused
him some annoyance.

He separated from his friend to go running to the upper floors of
the ship, and before heard them breaking music playing a march.

The procession moved toward neptunesco den terrace, where they would be baptized ladies. People
left the practicable balcony to run the latter site.

Near the winter garden he found with Maud, who was walking between spouses Lowe. Crossed a greeting,
and instantly Ojeda experienced a feeling of strangeness.

Mrs. Power seemed another woman. Almost felt like to ask for forgiveness, as he is wrong to
confuse a stranger with a friend. She nodded with a smile insignificant greeted him like any
other passenger. His eyes were fixed on hers quietly, without the slightest hint of embarrassment,
as if there were no other relationships between the ordinary in the
common life on board.

They talked about the four of baptism, and the Herculean Lowe said the incidents. Mr. Maltrana
had not wanted to be left baptized. Why? ... He had crossed the line several times, paying always
at the ceremony. In the Goethe also have offered not to oppose the lady. A fun party. But Mr.
Maltrana, I was afraid ... Oh! Oh! Oh! And laughed, showing the luenga teeth inlaid with gold.

All
walked to the cafe terrace to witness the ceremony of baptism female.

Mrs. Lowe, with the instinct of solidarity guess that makes every woman the right moment to
help a friend, stood clutching the arm of Maud, standing between her and Fernando.

He searched in vain for a slight smile, a look of intelligence.

In need of comfort, praise Maud inside the discretion of the race easy to master, hiding their
impressions. "What good fakes! ... No one would guess what's between us ... "but makes to the
memory of the painful scene in front of the cabin door. Trembled in his hearing the echo of the
male voice almost hoarse with anger ... And with sad humility search sought to explain his
conduct something this evil. "But what I have, Lord?

What I could offend ?...»

Neptune, in the middle of the terrace with his entourage proceeded to the christening of the
passengers. They occupied several rows of benches, as in a school, and every time you lift a to receive
the lustral water, the musicians threw their long tubes of copper a roar trumpets of war scenes
similar to Wagner.

God had removed gallantly dive in sea water. He held in one hand a large spray bottle filled
with perfume, and sprinkle with reverent heads: one, blond and ruffling in the wind, sometimes
glossy black, studded by the brightness of combs.

All the joy of the ceremony lay in the names that would impose divinity
their catechumens to approving murmurs or general laughter.

The imagination of the butler and waiters in some letters he had given all his juice to flatter
the passengers with the names of starfish, pink Ocean, zephyr Ecuador,
etc. The old ladies were nymph, nymph Atlantic, Naiad, which made
flushed back to their seats, with the double chin quivering, including
approving murmurs and somewhat ironic competition.

With his fellow Germans were allowed good innocent jokes to the delight of the audience. A
weak left at his baptism with the designation of "sardines", another obese was called "Triton."

Maud
seemed to get tired of this ceremony. I looked everywhere, but avoiding his eyes meet with Fernando.
A passenger approached the ladies with the cap in hand and gallant
air, just as if it were offered to a dance.

- When you want ... The
table is prepared in the classroom.

Munster was inviting them to a game of bridge. Tenacity finally triumphed. Had found playmates
in those three Americans, convincing them an hour earlier, while
witnessed the christening ceremony.

Maud gladly accepted the invitation, as if the bridge was a good excuse to withdraw from importunate
presence.

He walked away with his friends after an indifferent greeting Fernando, and he saw her walk without
turning his head, without a hint of hesitation and regret.

Here again one felt sorry for her fault she did not know was, but justified this conduct inexplicable.
"What have I done, Lord? ... What have I done ?...»

With the abject humility of all love in disgrace, was a little while after her, despite of suggestions
of a false energy advised him haughty and indifferent.

His legs carried him with an irresistible impulse to the vicinity of the room, and looked at
Maud with the cards in hand, frowning and looking hard at their playmates.

By lifting her eyes, saw Fernando framed by the window, staring fixedly
and made a gesture of anger, just as if he were confronted with something
which shook his nerves and broke his patience.

Fernando fled, suffering the same feeling as if just received a blow on the back ... He doubted
the reality of the facts and even his own person. Would dreaming?

... Would his invention memories of the night? ...

He wandered around the ship, one deck to another, to find Isidro coffee on the terrace. It
was not in it any trace of the feast of the baptism means passengers
had spread.

Maltrana seemed infuriated by the excesses and hardships of their popularity. I could not
circulate the ship without his many dear friends will go out to step with an air of protest. The
ladies seemed inconsolable. Why had not ceased to baptize? As interesting would have been the
show! ...

- As if I were a monkey, Ojeda friend ... as if I had shipped to make people laugh ... Believe
me, I feel the sadness of a great man convinced of the ingratitude of his people.

And after this statement, accompanied by a comical gesture, Isidro
turned to lean against the railing, looking at northern migrants huddled
down in the square stern.

- For a while I'm here to remind mariners
of bygone centuries and their views on virtues of the equator.

Do not you remember you ...

The first sailors who had gone to the other hemisphere gave assured that in line dying every
harboring parasites in the bodies of the sailors and the cracks ships. And this belief was not
only the Spanish explorers, French and The British also adopted, becoming for many years a universal
truth.

- Past the Azores - Maltrana said - began to depopulate the bloodthirsty
beasts the heads and beards of the crew, and get to the line there
was one to remember.

This s kind of uncomfortable was not so exclusive property of one people or another. All those
in Europe equally possessed, and even enjoyed the pleasure of kings and entertainment rascuñón
hunting in the dark.

Imagine what would those small vessels with crews wood piles and corroded by all sorts of nasty
bugs ... How to reach heat line was that the sailors were going about half naked and take advantage
of long calm giving baths, this momentary hygiene exterminate the fierce companions, justifying
the belief that dying for lack of acclimatization to move from one
hemisphere to another.

The bloodthirsty tiger from the jungles capillaries, carnivorous beast jumping on the tops and
hollows in the folds of clothing, had figured for centuries as an interesting character in
many literary works.

Cervantes laughed at him and his feigned death in the limit of two hemispheres to tell "the adventure
of the enchanted boat," when Don Quixote and his squire floated on
the Ebro in a boat without a paddle ... The champion dreamer believed
to be a few minutes navigation near the equator, and to convince,
recommended to seek Sancho on their clothes to see if there was "something"

... "Something and even somethings" answered the squire sly picking his chest.

- I thought this friend Ojeda, looking at the respectable patriarchs going down with fur greatcoat
despite the heat. "Something and even somethings." For those, the line has lost Under its former
... Look at them: scratch to scratch! ...

He pointed to some immigrants who watched the Ocean thoughtfully, as figures hieratic priestly
majesty, wrapped in robes Luengas while his fingers hooked walked by the beard, sunk under
the skin, or advancing cap in the folds and folds of the breast.

- Let's go - Ojeda said nervously, as if you do not inspire confidence that the height separated
from these characters.

Noticed when walking along the deck the shortage of ladies. Some that were shown for brief times they
seemed preoccupied with the search for something important.

Then disappeared, as if an idea they have bought a new or modified
data that your bad mood.

- They are preparing for the party tonight
- said Maltrana -.

Great dance costumes and during the meal masquerades as baptism.

The day continued with an overwhelming monotony. Still bright on the horizon the last solar
fires, when the trumpets announced the banquet.

The flags, wreaths of roses, all the trappings of great colorful festivals, adorned the dining room.
No service began were occupied many of the tables.

Many passengers remained in the breakfast area to enjoy before the other of the announced news.

Ladies
retarded entry, with the hope that their costumes achieve greater
success.

Expected, as well as actresses, that the room had good audience, and their maids or men of the
family were in the cabin to the dining room to look around and come
back with news.

Each family wanted the others were in front, and let time pass without
a decision.

They were passengers in the third course, when they began to present the costume, all at once.
Blushing welcomed the applause and shouts of enthusiasm, and so went to their seats escorted
by the family. Passed among the tables Russian ladies high crown and robes rigid, often Nipponese
of walking; polonaises dolmanes rimmed with white fur, sailor tempting youth packed their prominence
in a white robe given by a boy.

- Ollé!

Ollé! ... Carmen!

Was Conchita, white blanket, short skirts and large movements of range, he entered, Dona Zobeida
protected by smiling, motherly face of this triumph.

The men were also on the masquerade. Many did not have another nose disguise cardboard or crepe
whiskers, keeping them though hindered their food. Some appeared with big hat, poncho on the shoulders
and spurs, it did resonate belligerently. Color were eager to local brokers, who claimed to be dressed
as gauchos of the Pampas Chilean or broken.

- Ah, gaucho cute! Tigre! - Exclaimed with mock enthusiasm American boys -. Ah, rotito! ... Huaso
funny! ...

And the masks, resting her hand on the old knife or kitchen knife carrying the belt to "be more
in character," smiled grateful.

- Ich danke ... Grasias Mochas.

Some ate between sweat of fear, disguised as dervishes bed blankets. A German major had put the life jacket
that kept all cabin as a precaution regulations. Locked up like a crustacean in this shell
of cork, kept away from the table because of the volume of its container,
having to make a journey every time his hands were on the plates in
their mouths.

A mock astonishment greeted him with loud applause, and satisfied with this triumph, endured
martyrdom, being the first to admire his prodigious inventive.

The maids of luxury cabins ranging from table to table, dressed in peasant Tirol, giving flowers.
Other servants, hawkers dressed in German, offering goodies that were in a drawer on the chest. A
painted black boy with the help descolgábase a rope through the skylight that connected the music room
with dining room, and proclaimed, in the style of newspaper vendors, the Aequator Zeitung newspaper
is printed on board the press that was used for the printing of menus and lists of passengers.
The tiny leaf repeated on every trip the same jokes and poems dedicated
to the passage of the line. The butler, standing at the entrance to
the dining room, coat stand with brass buttons, seemed to preside
over the banquet, smiling modestly, as if grateful for the congratulations
of the audience silent for good Under the party.

On the tables elevábanse
multicolored cones pyramids with surprises. Threw their diners ends,
producing an explosive burst, and emerged wrappers tiny ornaments,
butterflies and flowers chiffon, tiny flags, paper hats. It adorned
the breasts of the ladies with these brilliant baubles, all smoking
flap looked like a badge of national flag carrier. Cubríanse heads
with the tissue paper hats, combs of birds, mitres Asian, clown hats,
contrasting grotesquely with the gesture avid eaters.

After grilling
the waiter disappeared, and all the lights went out at once. This
resulted in complete darkness, after a silence of surprise, shouts
and whistles. The malicious mimicked in darkness smacking kisses,
others raised howls of animals. But DIN was short-lived.

It sounded
far away the music and lights twinkled in red and green breakfast
room, a line of lanterns carried aloft by the waiters. This glow,
muffled by the glass colors, discreetly lit with soft light. It was
the "march of the torch" of any party German. The passengers, attracted
by the music began to beat time with their knives, plates and glasses.
And among the general ringing, almost drowned out the sounds instruments,
the procession paraded: the drum major leading the band, all the servants
carrying lanterns, the waitresses dressed as flower girls, and a large
number of animals bears, dogs and lions, waiters in good faith, sweating
under the fur lining and moved from side to side their heads roaring
or barking cardboard. But Oline as like as not has noticed something, looking out
through the glass window; she appears in the doorway, quietly and steadily, with buckets in
her hands, on her way to the cowshed.

"What have you done with that ewe with the flat ears?" he asks.

"Ewe?" she asks.

"Ay. If she'd been here she'd have had two lambs by now. What have you done with them? She
always had two. You've done me out of three together, do you understand?"

Oline is altogether overwhelmed, altogether annihilated by the accusation; she wags her head,
and her legs seem to melt away under her--she might fall and hurt herself. Her head is busy
all the time; her ready wit had always helped her, always served her well; it must not fail
her now.

"I steal goats and I steal the sheep," she says quietly. "And what do I do with them, I should
like to know? I don't eat them up all by myself, I suppose?"

"You know best what you do with them."

"Ho! As if I didn't have enough and to spare of meat and food and all, with what you give me,
Isak, that I should have to steal more? But I'll say that, anyway, I've never needed so much,
all these years."

"Well, what have, you done with the sheep? Has Os-Anders had it?"

"Os-Anders?" Oline has to set down the buckets and fold her hands." May I never have more guilt
to answer for! What's all this about a ewe and lambs you're talking of? Is it the goat you
mean, with the flat ears?"

"You creature!" said Isak, turning away.

"Well, if you're not a miracle, Isak, I will say.... Here you've all you could wish for every
sort, and a heavenly host of sheep and goats and all in your own shed, and you've not enough.
How should I know what sheep, and what two lambs, you're trying to get out of me now? You should
be thanking the Lord for His mercies from generation to generation, that you should. 'Tis but
this summer and a bit of a way to next winter, and you've the lambing season once more, and
three times as many again."

Oh, that woman Oline!

Isak went off grumbling like a bear. "Fool I was not to murder her the first day!" he thought,
calling himself all manner of names. "Idiot, lump of rubbish that I was! But it's not too late
yet; just wait, let her go to the cowshed if she likes. It wouldn't be wise to do anything
tonight, but tomorrow ... ay, tomorrow morning's the time. Three sheep lost and gone! And coffee,
did she say!"

Chapter X

Next day was fated to bring a great event. There came a visitor to the farm--Geissler came.
It was not yet summer on the moors, but Geissler paid no heed to the state of the ground; he
came on foot, in rich high boots with broad, shiny tops; yellow gloves, too, he wore, and was
elegant to see; a man from the village carried his things.

He had come, as a matter of fact, to buy a piece of Isak's land, up in the hills--a copper
mine. And what about the price? Also, by the way, he had a message from Inger--good girl, every
one liked her; he had been in Trondhjem, and seen her. "Isak, you've put in some work here."

"Ay, I dare say And you've seen Inger?"

"What's that you've got over there? Built a mill of your own, have you? grind your own corn?
Excellent. And you've turned up a good bit of ground since I was here last."

"Is she well?"

"Eh? Oh, your wife!--yes, she's well and fit. Let's go in the next room. I'll tell you all
about it."

"'Tis not in order," put in Oline. Oline had her own reasons for not wishing them to go in.
They went into the little room nevertheless, and closed the door. Oline stood in the kitchen
and could hear nothing.

Geissler sat down, slapped his knee with a powerful hand, and there he was--master of Isak's fate.

"You haven't sold that copper tract yet?" he asked.

"No."

"Good. I'll buy it myself. Yes, I've seen Inger and some other people too. She'll be out before
long, if I'm not greatly mistaken--the case has been submitted to the King."

"The King?"

"The King, yes. I went in to have a talk with your wife--they managed it for me, of course,
no difficulty about that--and we had a long talk. 'Well, Inger, how are you getting on? Nicely,
what?' 'Why, I've no cause to complain.'' Like to be home again?' 'Ay, I'll not say no.' 'And
so you shall before very long,' said I. And I'll tell you this much, Isak, she's a good girl,
is Inger. No blubbering, not so much as a tear, but smiling and laughing ... they've fixed
up that trouble with her mouth, by the way--operation--sewed it up again. 'Good-bye, then,'
said I. 'You won't be here very long, I'll promise you that.'

"Then I went to the Governor--he saw me, of course, no difficulty about that. 'You've a woman
here,' said I,' that ought to be out of the place, and back in her home--Inger Sellanraa.'
'Inger?' said he; 'why, yes. She's a good sort--I wish we could keep her for twenty years,'
said he. 'Well, you won't,' said I. 'She's been here too long already.' 'Too long?' says he.
'Do you know what she's in for?' 'I know all about it,' says I, 'being Lensmand in the district.'
'Oh,' says he, 'won't you sit down?' Quite the proper thing to say, of course. 'Why,' says
the Governor then, 'we do what we can for her here, and her little girl too. So she's from
your part of the country, is she? We've helped her to get a sewing-machine of her own; she's
gone through the workshops right to the top, and we've taught her a deal--weaving, household
work, dyeing, cutting out. Been here too long, you say?' Well, I'd got my answer ready for
that all right, but it could wait, so I only said her case had been badly muddled, and had
to be taken up again; now, after the revision of the criminal code, she'd probably have been
acquitted altogether. And I told him about the hare. 'A hare?' says the Governor. 'A hare,'
says I. 'And the child was born with a hare-lip.' 'Oh,' says he, smiling, 'I see. And you think
they ought to have made more allowance for that?' 'They didn't make any at all,' said I, 'for
it wasn't mentioned.' 'Well, I dare say it's not so bad, after all.' 'Bad enough for her, anyway.'
'Do you believe a hare can work miracles, then?' says he. 'As to that,' said I, 'whether a
hare can work miracles or not's a matter I won't discuss just now. The question is, what effect
the sight of a hare might have on a woman with her disfigurement, in her condition.' Well,
he thought over that for a bit. 'H'm,' says he at last. 'Maybe, maybe. Anyhow, we're not concerned
with that here. All we have to do is to take over the people they send us; not to revise their
sentences. And according to her sentence, Inger's not yet finished her time.'

"Well, then, I started on what I wanted to say all along. 'There was a serious oversight made
in bringing her here to begin with,' said I. 'An oversight?' 'Yes. In the first place, she
ought never to have been sent across the country at all in the state she was in.' He looks
at me stiffly. 'No, that's perfectly true,' says he. 'But it's nothing to do with us here,
you know.' 'And in the second place,' said I, 'she ought certainly not to have been in the
prison for full two months without any notice taken of her condition by the authorities here.'
That put him out, I could see; he said nothing for quite a while. 'Are you instructed to act
on her behalf?' says he at last. 'Yes, I am,' said I. Well, then, he started on about how pleased
they had been with her, and telling me over again all they'd taught her and done for her there--taught
her to write too, he said. And the little girl had been put out to nurse with decent people,
and so on. Then I told him how things were at home, with Inger away. Two youngsters left behind,
and only a hired woman to look after them, and all the rest. 'I've a statement from her husband,'
said I, 'that I can submit whether the case be taken up for thorough revision, or an application
be made for a pardon.' 'I'd like to see that statement,' says the Governor. 'Right,' said I.
'I'll bring it along tomorrow in visiting hours.'"

Isak sat listening--it was thrilling to hear, a wonderful tale from foreign parts. He followed
Geissler's mouth with slavish eyes.

Geissler went on: "I went straight back to the hotel and wrote out a statement; did the whole
thing myself, you understand, and signed it 'Isak Sellanraa.' Don't imagine, though, I said
a word against the way they'd managed things in the prison. Not a word. Next day I went along
with the paper. 'Won't you sit down?' says the Governor, the moment I got inside the door.
He read through what I'd written, nodded here and there, and at last he says: 'Very good, very
good indeed. It'd hardly do, perhaps, to have the case brought up again for revision, but....'
'Wait a bit,' said I. 'I've another document that I think will make it right.' Had him there
again, you see. 'Well,' he says, all of a hurry, 'I've been thinking over the matter since
yesterday, and I consider there's good and sufficient grounds to apply for a pardon.' 'And
the application would have the Governor's support?' I asked. 'Certainly; yes, I'll give it
my best recommendation.' Then I bowed and said: 'In that case, there will be no difficulty
about the pardon, of course. I thank you, sir, on behalf of a suffering woman and a stricken
home.' Then says he: 'I don't think there should be any need of further declarations--from
the district, I mean--about her case. You know the woman yourself--that should be quite enough.'
I knew well enough, of course, why he wanted the thing settled quietly as possible, so I just
agreed: said it would only delay the proceedings to collect further material....

"And there you are, Isak, that's the whole story." Geissler looked at his watch. "And now let's
get to business. Can you go with me up to the ground again?"

Isak was a stony creature, a stump of a man; he did not find it easy to change the subject
all at once; he was all preoccupied with thoughts and wondering, and began asking questions
of this and that. He learned that the application had been sent up to the King, and might be
decided in one of the first State Councils. "'Tis all a miracle," said he.

Then they went up into the hills; Geissler, his man, and Isak, and were out for some hours.
In a very short time Geissler had followed the lie of the copper vein over a wide stretch of
land and marked out the limits of the tract he wanted. Here, there, and everywhere he was.
But no fool, for all his hasty movements; quick to judge, but sound enough for all that.

When they came back to the farm once more with a sack full of samples of ore--he got out writing
materials and sat down to write. He did not bury himself completely in his writing, though,
but talked now and again. "Well, Isak, it won't be such a big sum this time, for the land,
but I can give you a couple of hundred Daler anyway, on the spot." Then he wrote again. "Remind
me before I go, I want to see that mill of yours," said he. Then he caught sight of some blue
and red marks on the frame of the loom, and asked."Who drew that?" Now that was Eleseus, had
drawn a horse and a goat; he used his coloured pencil on the loom and woodwork anywhere, having
no paper. "Not at all bad," said Geissler, and gave Eleseus a coin.

Geissler went on writing for a bit, and then looked up. "You'll be having other people taking
up land hereabouts before long."

At this the man with him spoke: "There's some started already."

"Ho! And who might that be?"

"Well, first, there's the folk at Breidablik, as they call it--man Brede, at Breidablik."

"Him--puh!" sniffed Geissler contemptuously.

"Then there's one or two others besides, have bought."

"Doubt if they're any good, any of them," said Geissler. And noticing at the same moment that
there were two boys in the room, he caught hold of little Sivert and gave him a coin. A remarkable
man was Geissler. His eyes, by the way, had begun to look soreish; there was a kind of redness
at the edges. Might have been sleeplessness; the same thing comes at times from drinking of
strong waters. But he did not look dejected at all; and for all his talking of this and that
between times, he was thinking no doubt of his document all the while, for suddenly he picked
up the pen and wrote a piece more.

At last he seemed to have finished.

He turned to Isak: "Well, as I said, it won't make you a rich man all at once, this deal. But
there may be more to come. We'll fix it up so that you get more later on. Anyhow, I can give
you two hundred now."

Isak understood but little of the whole thing, but two hundred Daler was at any rate another
miracle, and an unreasonable sum. He would get it on paper, of course, not paid in cash, but
let that be. Isak had other things in his head just now.

"And you think she'll be pardoned?" he asked.

"Eh? Oh, your wife! Well, if there'd been a telegraph office in the village, I'd have wired
to Trondhjem and asked if she hadn't been set free already."

Isak had heard men speak of the telegraph; a wonderful thing, a string hung up on big poles,
something altogether above the common earth. The mention of it now seemed to shake his faith
in Geissler's big words, and he put in anxiously: "But suppose the King says no?"

Said Geissler: "In that case, I send in my supplementary material, a full account of the whole
affair. And then they must set her free. There's not a shadow of doubt."

Then he read over what he had written; the contract for purchase of the land. Two hundred Daler
cash down, and later, a nice high percentage of receipts from working, or ultimate disposal
by further sale, of the copper tract. "Sign your name here," said Geissler.

Isak would have signed readily enough, but he was no scholar; in all his life he had got no
farther than cutting initials in wood. But there was that hateful creature Oline looking on;
he took up the pen--a beastly thing, too light to handle anyway--turned it right end down,
and wrote--wrote his name. Whereupon Geissler added something, presumably an explanation, and
the man he had brought with him signed as a witness.

Settled.

But Oline was still there, standing immovable--it was indeed but now she had turned so stiff.
What was to happen?

"Dinner on the table, Oline," said Isak, possibly with a tough of dignity, after having signed
his name in writing on a paper. "Such as we can offer," he added to Geissler.

"Smells good enough," said Geissler. "Sound meat and drink. Here, Isak, here's your money!"
Geissler took out his pocket-book--thick and fat it was, too--drew from it two bundles of notes
and laid them down. "Count it over yourself."

Not a movement, not a sound.

"Isak," said Geissler again.

"Ay. Yes," answered Isak, and murmured, overwhelmed, "'Tis not that I've asked for it, nor
would--after all you've done."

"Ten tens in that--should be, and twenty fives here," said Geissler shortly. "And I hope there'll
be more than that by a long way for your share soon."

And then it was that Oline recovered from her trance. The wonder had happened after all. She
set the food on the table.

Next morning Geissler went out to the river to look at the mill. It was small enough, and roughly
built; ay, a mill for dwarfs, for trollfolk, but strong and useful for a man's work. Isak led
his guest a little farther up the river, and showed him another fall he had been working on
a bit; it was to turn a saw, if so be God gave him health. "The only thing," he said, "it's
a heavy long way from school: I'll have to get the lads to stay down in the village." But Geissler,
always so quick to find a way, saw nothing to worry about here. "There are more people buying
and settling here now," said he. "It won't be long before there's enough to start a school."

"Ay, maybe, but not before my boys are grown."

"Well, why not let them live on a farm down in the village? You could drive in with the boys
and some food, and bring them up again three weeks--six weeks after; it would be easy enough
for you, surely?"

"Ay, maybe," said Isak.

Ay, all things would be easy enough, if Inger came home. House and land and food and grand
things enough, and a big sum of money too he had, and his strength; he was hard as nails. Health
and strength-- ay, full and unspoiled, unworn, in every way, the health and strength of a man.

When Geissler had gone, Isak began thinking of many presumptuous things. Ay, for had not Geissler,
that blessing to them all, said at parting that he would send a message very soon--would send
a telegram as soon as ever he could. "You can call in at the post office in a fortnight's time,"
he had said. And that in itself was a wonderful thing enough. Isak set to work making a seat
for the cart. A seat, of course, that could be taken off when using the cart for manure, but
to be put in again when any one wanted to drive. And when he had got the seat made, it looked
so white and new that it had to be painted darker. As for that, there were things enough that
had to be done! The whole place wanted painting, to begin with. And he had been thinking for
years past of building a proper barn with a bridge, to house in the crop. He had thought, too,
of getting that saw set up and finished; of fencing in all his cultivated ground; of building
a boat on the lake up in the hills. Many things he had thought of doing. But hard as he worked,
unreasonably hard--what did it help against time? Time--it was the time that was too short.
It was Sunday before he knew, and then directly after, lo it was Sunday again!

Paint he would, in any case; that was decided and emphatic. The buildings stood there grey
and bare--stood there like houses in their shirt sleeves. There was time yet before the busy
season; the spring was hardly begun yet; the young things were out, but there was frost in
the ground still.

Isak goes down to the village, taking with him a few score of eggs for sale, and brings back
paint. There was enough for one building, for the barn, and it was painted red. He fetches
up more paint, yellow ochre this time, for the house itself. "Ay, 'tis as I said, here's going
to be fine and grand," grumbles Oline every day. Ay, Oline could guess, no doubt, that her
time at Sellanraa would soon be up; she was tough and strong enough to bear it, though not
without bitterness. Isak, on his part, no longer sought to settle up old scores with her now,
though she pilfered and put away things lavishly enough towards the end. He made her a present
of a young wether; after all, she had been with him a long time, and worked for little pay.
And Oline had not been so bad with the children; she was not stern and strictly righteous and
that sort of thing, but had a knack of dealing with children: listened to what they said, and
let them do more or less as they pleased. If they came round while she was making cheese, she
would give them a bit to taste; if they begged to be let off washing their faces one Sunday,
she would let them off.

When Isak had given his walls a first coat, he went down to the village again and brought up
all the paint he could carry. Three coats he put on in all, and white on the window-frames
and corners. To come back now and look at his home there on the hillside, it was like looking
at a fairy palace. The wilderness was inhabited and unrecognizable, a blessing had come upon
it, life had arisen there from a long dream, human creatures lived there, children played about
the houses. And the forest stretched away, big and kindly, right up to the blue heights.

But the last time Isak went down for paint, the storekeeper gave him a blue envelope with a
crest on, and 5 skilling to pay. It was a telegram which had been forwarded by post, and was
from Lensmand Geissler. A blessing on that man Geissler, wonderful man that he was! He telegraphed
these few words, that Inger was free, "Home soonest possible: Geissler." And at this the store
took to whirling curiously round and round; the counter and the people in the shop were suddenly
far away. Isak felt rather than heard himself saying, "Herregud!" and "Praise and thanks to God."

"She might be here no later than tomorrow the day," said the storekeeper, "if so be she's left
Trondhjem in time."

"Ho!" said Isak.

He waited till the next day. The carrier came up with letters, from the landing-stage where
the steamer put in, but no Inger. "Then she won't be here now till next week," the storekeeper
said.

Almost as well, after all, that there was time to wait--Isak has many things to do. Should
he forget himself altogether, and neglect his land? He sets off home again and begins carting
out manure. It is soon done. He sticks a crowbar into the earth, noting how the frost disappears
from day to day. The sun is big and strong now, the snow is gone, green showing everywhere;
the cattle are out to graze. Isak ploughs one day, and a few days later he is sowing corn,
planting potatoes. Ho, the youngsters too, planting potatoes like angels; blessed little hands
they have, and what can their father do but watch?

Then Isak washes out the cart down by the river, and puts the seat in. Talks to the lads about
a little journey; he must have a little journey down to the village.

"But aren't you going to walk?"

"Not today. I've took into my head to go down with horse and cart today."

"Can't we come too?"

"You've got to be good boys, and stay at home this time. Your own mother'll be coming very
soon, and she'll learn you a many things."

Eleseus is all for learning things; he asks: "Father, when you did that writing on the paper--what
does it feel like?"

"Why, 'tis hardly to feel at all; just like a bit of nothing in the hand."

"But doesn't it slip, like on the ice?"

"What slip?"

"The pen thing, that you write with?"

"Ay, there's the pen. But you have to learn to steer it, you'll see."

But little Sivert he was of another mind, and said nothing about pens; he wanted to ride in
the cart; just to sit up on the seat before the horse was put in, and drive like that, driving
ever so fast in a cart without a horse. And it was all his doing that father let them both
sit up and ride with him a long way down the road.

Chapter XI

Isak drives on till he comes to a tarn, a bit of a pool on the moor, and there he pulls up.
A pool on the moors, black, deep down, and the little surface of the water perfectly still;
Isak knew what that was good for; he had hardly used any other mirror in his life than such
a bit of water on the moors. Look how nice and neat he is today, with a red shirt; he takes
out a pair of scissors now, and trims his beard. Vain barge of a man; is he going to make himself
handsome all at once, and cut away five years' growth of iron beard? He cuts and cuts away,
looking at himself in his glass. He might have done all this at home, of course, but was shy
of doing it before Oline; it was quite enough to stand there right in front of her nose and
put on a red shirt. He cuts and cuts away, a certain amount of beard falls into his patent
mirror. The horse grows impatient at last and is moving on; Isak is fain to be content with
himself as he is, and gets up again. And indeed he feels somehow younger already--devil knows
what it could be, but somehow slighter of build. Isak drives down to the village.

Next day the mail boat comes in. Isak climbs up on a rock by the storekeeper's wharf, looking
out, but still no Inger to be seen. Passengers there were, grown-up folk and children with
them--Herregud!--but no Inger. He had kept in the background, sitting on his rock, but there
was no need to stay behind any longer; he gets down and goes to the steamer. Barrels and cases
trundling ashore, people and mailbags, but still Isak lacked what he had come for. There was
something there--a woman with a little girl, up at the entrance to the landing-stage already;
but the woman was prettier to look at than Inger--though Inger was good enough. What--why--but
it was Inger! "H'm," said Isak, and trundled up to meet them. Greetings: "Goddag," said Inger,
and held out her hand; a little cold, a little pale after the voyage, and being ill on the
way. Isak, he just stood there; at last he said:

"H'm. 'Tis a fine day and all."

"I saw you down there all along," said Inger. "But I didn't want to come crowding ashore with
the rest. So you're down in the village today?"

"Ay, yes. H'm."

"And all's well at home, everything all right?"

"Ay, thank you kindly."

"This is Leopoldine; she's stood the voyage much better than I did. This is your papa, Leopoldine;
come and shake hands nicely."

"H'm," said Isak, feeling very strange--ay, he was like a stranger with them all at once.

Said Inger: "If you find a sewing-machine down by the boat, it'll be mine. And there's a chest
as well."

Off goes Isak, goes off more than willingly, after the chest; the men on board showed him which
it was. The sewing-machine was another matter; Inger had to go down and find that herself.
It was a handsome box, of curious shape, with a round cover over, and a handle to carry it
by--a sewing-machine in these parts! Isak hoisted the chest and the sewing-machine on to his
shoulders, and turned to his wife and child:

"I'll have these up in no time, and come back for her after."

"Come back for who?" asked Inger, with a smile. "Did you think she couldn't walk by herself,
a big girl like that?"

They walked up to where Isak had left the horse and cart.

"New horse, you've got?" said Inger. 

"That night I went home game simulated mysteriously. I slid down the stairs up too late. I have
the keys, and opened, I went and hid in my room. Had not yet become them of the party they go every
night, which is also the man who kills me. The get heard, I heard them laughing, celebrating
man's jokes. To distract the penalties for my absence might be supposed that I had my wife, he
had been more talkative and humorous than usual.

"I had to wait quiet to lie down and wait even for that Beatrice fell asleep. During some time there
was some energy in me that now I shudder. I thought about killing Beatriz stabbed to death
while he slept.

"I assure you that I entered her bedroom with this tremendous purpose. Laugh now. It is very
funny, is funny what you'll say. I do not use weapons, I have only one who brought me gumi
This officer friend, who was of those who came in Tetouan. With that
I wanted gumi kill.

I took her naked in his right hand in his left hand bore the candlestick.

"Without me in any mirror, I saw me in my imagination, and I gave me creeps, not criminal, but
grotesque.

Chiquituelo So, so ugly, so valetudinarian and so sickly; clerk of last class ... What right
had I to the great passions? I was Othello of farce.

"I was holding my breath ... tiptoed ... full of fear that my wife woke up. It seemed that if
you woke up and saw me going to laugh.

"So I reached it. She did not wake. Sleeping with mouth open, showing white teeth and equal.
What freshness and what carmine in their wet lips! What lashes together! What a gentle smile!
What a serene! If Desdemona had been As Beatrice, Othello would not have been killed. I realized
then that might not fit monstrosity in such a barbaric human being to be. My anger gave way
to emotion. A flood of tears bathed my cheeks. Gumi I put on the table at night. I put it there with
very cautiously and shaking that woke my wife. I looked at Beatrice. I looked like who looks
at the treasure that has been lost. All your worth, all its beauty, all spell flashed his
before my eyes brighter than ever.

What sweet bastard, what love without honor and without shame, what affection villain poisoned
me at that moment the heart and ran through my veins to my perverse
blood?

This is wiped my tears, got his head slowly and gently and without barely touching his lips, kissed
her rosy cheeks.

"Fortunately I was in the reaction. Received the outrage offered to
my spirit.

I filled with shame. I was ashamed, I was disgusted by my weakness.

"The idea of ​​killing Beatriz again asked me undecided will. I grabbed the iron again. Again
stepped back frightened.

"I fled the room, fled from the house like a thief.

I opened both doors with the keys had saved, then carefully closed. I found myself in the street.

»What
to do? I looked ridiculous.

He could not suffer. In the middle of the street gave me a seizure of nervous laughter. If
someone had heard me take me for crazy.

"Lots of thoughts found, and all very sad, crossed my mind went and returned with cruel persistence.

"For
a brief moment imagine still insisted that it could be slander anonymous accusations, but soon
ran away from me this idea comforting. It alone has not returned.
"What was the crisis solution that was me? Did I had to kill my wife?
Does I had to kill her lover?

"No, it was not weakness of mine: I
was in the mood to kill someone who had been at that point to steal
my watch or the few actual carrying in his pocket, but perhaps a moral
perversion, I could not consider me a thief who stole the joy, love
my wife and the honor of my house clean. The watch and money are my
property, no free will, not the thief go and leave me because I prefer,
while Beatrice was with another and left me because she preferred.
He did well to take it. Why had I to kill him for this? She takes the child from Isak, gets him to shift the
chest and the sewing-machine, making a place for Leopoldine in the bottom of the cart. "Shaken?
not a bit of it!"

Isak fixes things to rights, tucks his little daughter up in the rug, and lays his jacket folded
under her head. Then off again.

Man and wife gossiping of this and that. The sun is up till late in the evening, and the weather
warm.

"Oline," says Inger--"where does she sleep?"

"In the little room."

"Ho! And the boys?"

"They've their own bed in the big room. There's two beds there, just as when you went away."

"Looking at you now," said Inger, "I can see you're just as you were before. And those shoulders
of yours, they've carried some burdens up along this way, but they've not grown the weaker
by it, seems."

"H'm. Maybe. What I was going to say: How it was like with you all the years there? Bearable
like?" Oh, Isak was soft at heart now; he asked her that, and wondered in his mind.

And Inger said: "Ay, 'twas nothing to complain of."

They talked more feelingly together, and Isak asked if she wasn't tired of walking, and would
get up in the cart a bit of way. "No, thanks all the same," said she. "But I don't know what's
the matter with me today; after being ill on the boat, I feel hungry all the time."

"Why, did you want something, then?"

"Yes, if you don't mind stopping so long."

Oh, that Inger, maybe 'twas not for herself at all, but for Isak's sake. She would have him
eat again; he had spoiled his last meal chewing twigs of heather.

And the evening was light and warm, and they had but a few miles more to go; they sat down
to eat again.

Inger took a parcel from her box, and said:

"I've a few things I brought along for the boys. Let's go over there in the bushes, it's warmer
there."

They went across to the bushes, and she showed him the things; neat braces with buckles for
the boys to wear, copy-books with copies at the top of the page, a pencil for each, a pocket-knife
for each. And there was an excellent book for herself, she had. "Look, with my name in and
all. A prayer-book." It was a present from the Governor, by way of remembrance.

Isak admired each thing in silence. She took out a bundle of little collars--Leopoldine's,
they were. And gave Isak a black neckerchief for himself, shiny as silk.

"Is that for me?" said he.

"Yes, it's for you."

He took it carefully in his hands, and stroked it.

"Do you think it's nice?"

"Nice--why I could go round the world in such."

But Isak's fingers were rough; they stuck in the curious silky stuff.

Now Inger had no more things to show. But when she had packed them all up again, she sat there
still; and the way she sat, he could see her legs, could see her red-bordered stockings.

"H'm," said he. "Those'll be town-made things, I doubt?"

"'Tis wool was bought in the town, but I knitted them myself. They're ever so long--right up
above the knee--look...."

A little while after she heard herself whispering: "Oh, you ... you're just the same--the same
as ever!"

       *       *       *       *       *

And after that halt they drove on again, and Inger sat up, holding the reins. "I've brought
a paper of coffee too," she said. "But you can't have any this evening, for it's not roasted yet."

"'Tis more than's needed this evening and all," said he.

An hour later the sun goes down, and it grows colder. Inger gets down to walk. Together they
tuck the rug closer about Leopoldine, and smile to see how soundly she can sleep. Man and wife
talk together again on their way. A pleasure it is to hear Inger's voice; none could speak
clearer than Inger now.

"Wasn't it four cows we had?" she asks.

"'Tis more than that," says he proudly. "We've eight."

"Eight cows!"

"That is to say, counting the bull."

"Have you sold any butter?"

"Ay, and eggs."

"What, have we chickens now?"

"Ay, of course we have. And a pig."

Inger is so astonished at all this that she forgets herself altogether, and stops for a moment--"Ptro!"
And Isak is proud and keeps on, trying to overwhelm her completely.

"That Geissler," he says, "you remember him? He came up a little while back."

"Oh?"

"I've sold him a copper mine."

"Ho! What's that--a copper mine?"

"Copper, yes. Up in the hills, all along the north side of the water."

"You--you don't mean he paid you money for it?"

"Ay, that he did. Geissler he wouldn't buy things and not pay for them."

"What did you get, then?"

"H'm. Well, you might not believe it--but it was two hundred Daler."

"You got two hundred Daler!" shouts Inger, stopping again with a "Ptro!"

"I did--yes. And I've paid for my land a long while back," said Isak.

"Well--you are a wonder, you are!"

Truly, it was a pleasure to see Inger all surprised, and make her a rich wife. Isak did not
forget to add that he had no debts nor owings at the store or anywhere else. And he had not
only Geissler's two hundred untouched, but more than that--a hundred and sixty Daler more.
Ay, they might well be thankful to God!

They spoke of Geissler again; Inger was able to tell how he had helped to get her set free.
It had not been an easy matter for him, after all, it seemed; he had been a long time getting
the matter through, and had called on the Governor ever so many times. Geissler had also written
to some of the State Councillors, or some other high authorities; but this he had done behind
the Governor's back, and when the Governor heard of it he was furious, which was not surprising.
But Geissler was not to be frightened; he demanded a revision of the case, new trial, new examination,
and everything. And after that the King had to sign.

Ex-Lensmand Geissler had always been a good friend to them both, and they had often wondered
why; he got nothing out of it but their poor thanks--it was more than they could understand.
Inger had spoken with him in Trondhjem, and could not make him out. "He doesn't seem to care
a bit about any in the village but us," she explained.

"Did he say so?"

"Yes. He's furious with the village here. He'd show them, he said."

"Ho!"

"And they'd find out one day, and be sorry they'd lost him, he said."

They reached the fringe of the wood, and came in sight of their home. There were more buildings
there than before, and all nicely painted. Inger hardly knew the place again, and stopped dead.

"You--you don't say that's our place--all that?" she exclaimed.

Little Leopoldine woke at last and sat up, thoroughly rested now; they lifted her out and let
her walk.

"Are we there now?" she asked.

"Yes. Isn't it a pretty place?"

There were small figures moving, over by the house; it was Eleseus and Sivert, keeping watch.
Now they came running up. Inger was seized with a sudden cold--a dreadful cold in the head,
with sniffing and coughing--even her eyes were all red and watering too. It always gives one
a dreadful cold on board ship--makes one's eyes wet and all!

But when the boys came nearer they stopped running all of a sudden and stared. They had forgotten
what their mother looked like, and little sister they had never seen. But father--they didn't
know him at all till he came quite close. He had cut off his heavy beard.

Chapter XII

All is well now.

Isak sows his oats, harrows, and rolls it in. Little Leopoldine comes and wants to sit on the
roller. Sit on a roller?--nay, she's all too little and unknowing for that yet. Her brothers
know better. There's no seat on father's roller.

But father thinks it fine and a pleasure to see little Leopoldine coming up so trustingly to
him already; he talks to her, and shows her how to walk nicely over the fields, and not get
her shoes full of earth.

"And what's that--why, if you haven't a blue frock on today--come, let me see; ay, 'tis blue,
so it is. And a belt round and all. Remember when you came on the big ship? And the engines--did
you see them? That's right--and now run home to the boys again, they'll find you something
to play with."

Oline is gone, and Inger has taken up her old work once more, in house and yard. She overdoes
it a little, maybe, in cleanliness and order, just by way of showing that she was going to
have things differently now. And indeed it was wonderful to see what a change was made; even
the glass windows in the old turf hut were cleaned, and the boxes swept out.

But it was only the first days, the first week; after that she began to be less eager about
the work. There was really no need to take all that trouble about cowsheds and things; she
could make better use of her time now. Inger had learned a deal among the town folk, and it
would be a pity not to turn it to account. She took to her spinning-wheel and loom again--true
enough, she was even quicker and neater than before--a trifle too quick--hui!--especially when
Isak was looking on; he couldn't make out how any one could learn to use their fingers that
way--the fine long fingers she had to her big hands. But Inger had a way of dropping one piece
of work to take up another, all in a moment. Well, well, there were more things to be looked
to now than before, and maybe she was not altogether so patient as she had been; a trifle of
unrest had managed to creep in.

First of all there were the flowers she had brought with her--bulbs and cuttings; little lives
these too, that must be thought of. The glass window was too small, the ledge too narrow to
set flower-pots on; and besides, she had no flower-pots. Isak must make some tiny boxes for
begonias, fuchsias, and roses. Also, one window was not enough--fancy a room with only one window!

And, "Oh, by the way," said Inger, "I want an iron, you know. There isn't one in the place.
I could use a flat iron for pressing when I'm sewing dresses and things, but you can't do proper
work without an iron of some sort."

Isak promised to get the blacksmith down at the village to make a first-rate pressing-iron.
Oh, Isak was ready to do anything, do all that she asked in every way; for he could see well
enough that Inger had learned a heap of things now, and matchless clever she was grown. She
spoke, too, in a different way, a little finer, using elegant words. She never shouted out
to him now as she used to: "Come and get your food!" but would say instead: "Dinner's ready,
if you please." Everything was different now. In the old days he would answer simply "Ay,"
or say nothing at all, and go on working for a bit before he came. Now, he said "Thanks," and
went in at once. Love makes the wise a fool: now and then Isak would say "Thanks, thanks."
Ay, all was different now--maybe a trifle too fine in some ways. When Isak spoke of dung, and
was rough in his speech, as peasants are, Inger would call it manure, "for the sake of the
children, you know."

She was careful with the children, and taught them everything, educated them. Let tiny Leopoldine
go on quickly with her crochet work, and the boys with writing and schooling; they would not
be altogether behindhand when the time came for them to go to school in the village. Eleseus
in particular was grown a clever one, but little Sivert was nothing much, if the truth must
be told--a madcap, a jackanapes. He even ventured to screw a little at Mother's sewing-machine,
and had already hacked off splinters from table and chairs with his new pocket-knife. Inger
had threatened to take it away altogether.

The children, of course, had all the animals about the place, and Eleseus had still his coloured
pencil besides. He used it very carefully, and rarely lent it to his brother, but for all that
the walls were covered with blue and red drawings as time went on, and the pencil got smaller
and smaller. At last Eleseus was simply forced to put Sivert on rations with it, lending him
the pencil on Sunday only, for one drawing. Sivert was not pleased with the arrangement, but
Eleseus was a fellow who would stand no nonsense. Not so much as being the stronger, but he
had longer arms, and could manage better when it came to a quarrel.

But that Sivert! Now and again he would come across a bird's nest in the woods; once he talked
about a mouse-hole he had found, and made a lot of that; another time it was a great fish as
big as a man, he had seen in the river. But it was all evidently his own invention; he was
somewhat inclined to make black into white, was Sivert, but a good sort for all that. When
the cat had kittens, it was he who brought her milk, because she hissed too much for Eleseus.
Sivert was never tired of standing looking at the box full of movement, a nest of tumbling
furry paws.

The chickens, too, he noticed every day: the cock with his lordly carriage and fine feathers,
the hens tripping about chattering low, and pecking at the sand, or screaming out as if terribly
hurt every time they had laid an egg.

And there was the big wether. Little Sivert had read a good deal to what he knew before, but
he could not say of the wether that the beast had a fine Roman nose, begad! That he could not
say. But he could do better than that. He knew the wether from the day when it had been a lamb,
he understood it and was one with it--a kinsman, a fellow-creature. Once, a strange primitive
impression flickered through his senses: it was a moment he never forgot. The wether was grazing
quietly in the field; suddenly it threw up its head, stopped munching, simply stood there looking
out. Sivert looked involuntarily in the same direction. No--nothing remarkable. But Sivert
himself felt something strange within him: "'Tis most as if he stood looking into the garden
of Eden," he thought.

There were the cows,--the children had each a couple,--great sailing creatures, so friendly
and tame that they let themselves be caught whenever you liked; let human children pat them.
There was the pig, white and particular about its person when decently looked after, listening
to every sound, a comical fellow, always eager for food, and ticklish and fidgety as a girl.
And there was the billy-goat, there was always one old billy-goat at Sellanraa, for as soon
as one died another was ready to take his place. And was there ever anything so solemnly ridiculous
to look at? Just now he had a whole lot of goats to look after, but at times he would get sick
and tired of them all, and lie down, a bearded, thoughtful spectacle, a veritable Father Abraham.
And then in a moment, up again and off after the flock. He always left a trail of sourish air
behind him.

       *       *       *       *       *

The daily round of the farm goes on. Now and again a traveller comes by, on his way up to the
hills, and asks: "And how's all with ye here?"

And Isak answers: "Ay, thank ye kindly."

Isak works and works, consulting the almanac for all that he does, notes the changes of the
moon, pays heed to the signs of the weather, and works on. He has beaten out so much of a track
down to the village that he can drive in now with horse and cart, but for the most part, he
carries his load himself; carries loads of cheese or hides, and bark and resin, and butter
and eggs; all things he can sell, to bring back other wares instead. No, in the summer he does
not often drive down--for one thing, because the road down from Breidablik, the last part of
the way, is so badly kept. He has asked Brede Olsen to help with the upkeep of the road, and
do his share. Brede Olsen promises, but does not hold to his word. And Isak will not ask him
again. Rather carry a load on his back himself. And Inger says: "I can't understand how you
ever manage it all." Oh, but he could manage anything. He had a pair of boots, so unimaginably
heavy and thick, with great slabs of iron on the soles, even the straps were fastened with
copper nails--it was a marvel that one man could walk in such boots at all.

On one of his journeys down, he came upon several gangs of men at work on the moors; putting
down stone sockets and fixing telegraph poles. Some of them are from the village, Brede Olsen
is there too, for all that he has taken up land of his own and ought to be working on that.
Isak wonders that Brede can find time.

The foreman asks if Isak can sell them telegraph poles. Isak says no. Not if he's well paid
for them?--No.--Oh, Isak was grown a thought quicker in his dealings now, he could say no.
If he sold them a few poles, to be sure it would be money in his pockets, so many Daler more;
but he had no timber to spare, there was nothing gained by that. The engineer in charge comes
up himself to ask, but Isak refuses.

"We've poles enough," says the engineer, "but it would be easier to take them from your ground
up there, and save transport."

"I've no timber to spare myself," says Isak. "I want to get up a bit of a saw and do some cutting;
there's some more buildings I'll need to have ready soon."

Here Brede Olsen put in a word, and says: "If I was you, Isak, I'd sell them poles."

For all his patience, Isak gave Brede a look and said: "Ay, I dare say you would."

"Well--what?" asks Brede.

"Only that I'm not you," said Isak.

Some of the workmen chuckled a little at this.

Ay, Isak had reason enough just then to put his neighbour down; that very day he had seen three
sheep in the fields at Breidablik, and one of them he knew--the one with the flat ears that
Oline had bartered away. He may keep it, thought Isak, as he went on his way; Brede and his
woman may get all the sheep they want, for me!

That business of the saw was always in his thoughts; it was as he had said. Last winter, when
the roads were hard, he had carted up the big circular blade and the fittings, ordered from
Trondhjem through the village store. The parts were lying in one of the sheds now, well smeared
with oil to keep off the rust. He had brought up some of the beams too, for the framework;
he could begin building when he pleased, but he put it off. What could it be? was he beginning
to grow slack, was he wearing out? He could not understand it himself. It would have been no
surprise to others, perhaps, but Isak could not believe it. Was his head going? He had never
been afraid of taking up a piece of work before; he must have changed somehow, since the time
when he had built his mill across a river just as big. He could get in help from the village,
but he would try again alone; he would start in a day or so--and Inger could lend him a hand.

He spoke to Inger about it.

"Hm. I don't know if you could find time one of these days to lend a hand with that sawmill?"

Inger thought for a moment. "Ye--s, if I can manage it. So you're going to set up a sawmill?"

"Ay, 'tis my intention so. I've worked it all out in my head."

"Will that be harder than the mill was?"

"Much harder, ten times as hard. Why, it's all got to be as close and exact--down to the tiniest
line, and the saw itself exactly midways."

"If only you can manage it," said Inger thoughtlessly.

Isak was offended, and answered, "As to that, we shall see."

"Couldn't you get a man to help you, some one that knows the work?"

"No."

"Well, then, you won't be able to manage it," said she again.

Isak put up his hand to his hair--it was like a bear lifting his paw.

"'Twas just that I've been fearing," said he. "That I might not manage it. And that's why I
wanted you that's learned so much to help me."

That was one to the bear. But nothing gained after all. Inger tossed her head and turned aside
unkindly, and would have nothing to do with his saw.

"Well, then--" said Isak.

"Why, do you want me to stand getting drenched in the river and have me laid up? And who's
to do all the sewing, and look to the animals and keep house, and all the rest?"

"No, that's true," said Isak.

Oh, but it was only the four corner posts and the middle ones for the two long sides he wanted
help with, that was all. Inger--was she really grown so different in her heart through living
among folk from the towns?

The fact was that Inger had changed a good deal; she thought now less of their common good
than of herself. She had taken loom and wheel into use again, but the sewing machine was more
to her taste; and when the pressing-iron came up from the blacksmith's, she was ready to set
up as a fully-trained dressmaker. She had a profession now. She began by making a couple of
little frocks for Leopoldine. Isak thought them pretty, and praised them, maybe, a thought
too much; Inger hinted that it was nothing to what she could do when she tried.

"But they're too short," said Isak.

"They're worn that way in town," said Inger. "You know nothing about it."

Isak saw he had gone too far, and, to make up for it, said something about getting some material
for Inger herself, for something or other.

"For a cloak?" said Inger.

"Ay, or what you'd like."

Inger agreed to have something for a cloak, and described the sort of stuff she wanted.

But when she had made the cloak, she had to find some one to show it to; accordingly, when
the boys went down to the village to be put to school, Inger herself went with them. And that
journey might have seemed a little thing, but it left its mark.

They came first of all to Breidablik, and the Breidablik woman and her children came out to
see who it was going by. There sat Inger and the two boys, driving down lordly-wise--the boys
on their way to school, nothing less, and Inger wearing a cloak. The Breidablik woman felt
a sting at the sight; the cloak she could have done without--thank heaven, she set no store
by such foolishness!--but ... she had children of her own--Barbro, a great girl already, Helge,
the next, and Kathrine, all of an age for school. The two eldest had been to school before,
when they lived down in the village, but after moving up to Breidablik, to an out-of-the-way
place up on the moors, they had been forced to give it up, and let the children run heathen again.

"You'll be wanting a bite for the boys, maybe," said the woman.

"Food? Do you see this chest here? It's my travelling trunk, that I brought home with me--I've
that full of food."

"And what'll be in it of sorts?"

"What sorts? I've meat and pork in plenty, and bread and butter and cheese besides."

"Ay, you've no lack up at Sellanraa," said the other; and her poor, sallow-faced children listened
with eyes and ears to this talk of rich things to eat. "And where will they be staying?" asked
the mother.

"At the blacksmith's," said Inger.

"Ho!" said the other. "Ay, mine'll be going to school again soon. They'll stay with the Lensmand."

"Ho!" said Inger.

"Ay, or at the doctor's, maybe, or at the parsonage. Brede he's in with the great folks there,
of course."

Inger fumbled with her cloak, and managed to turn it so that a bit of black silk fringe appeared
to advantage.

"Where did you get the cloak?" asked, the woman. "One you had with you, maybe?"

"I made it myself."

"Ay, ay, 'tis as I said: wealth and riches full and running over...."

Inger drove on, feeling all set up and pleased with herself, and, coming into the village,
she may have been a trifle overproud in her bearing. Lensmand Heyerdahl's lady was not pleased
at the sight of that cloak; the Sellanraa woman was forgetting her place--forgetting where
it was she had come from after five years' absence. But Inger had at least a chance of showing
off her cloak, and the storekeeper's wife and the blacksmith's wife and the schoolmaster's
wife all thought of getting one like it for themselves--but it could wait a bit.

And now it was not long before Inger began to have visitors. One or two women came across from
the other side of the hills, out of curiosity. Oline had perhaps chanced to say something against
her will, to this one or that. Those who came now brought news from Inger's own birthplace;
what more natural than that Inger should give them a cup of coffee, and let them look at her
sewing-machine! Young girls came up in pairs from the coast, from the village, to ask Inger's
advice; it was autumn now, and they had been saving up for a new dress, and wanted her to help
them. Inger, of course, would know all about the latest fashions, after being out in the world,
and now and again she would do a little cutting out. Inger herself brightened up at these visits,
and was glad; kindly and helpful she was too, and clever at the work, besides; she could cut
out material without a pattern. Sometimes she would even hem a whole length on her machine,
and all for nothing, and give the stuff back to the girls with a delightful jest: "There--now
you can sew the buttons on yourself!"

Later in the year Inger was sent for down to the village, to do dressmaking for some of the
great folks there. Inger could not go; she had a household to look after, and animals besides,
all the work of the home, and she had no servant.

Had no what? Servant!

She spoke to Isak one day.

"If only I had some one to help me, I could put in more time sewing."

Isak did not understand. "Help?"

"Yes, help in the house--a servant-girl."

Isak must have been taken aback at this; he laughed a little in his iron beard, and took it
as a jest. "Ay, we should have a servant-girl," said he.

"Housewives in the towns always have a servant," said Inger.

"Ho!" said Isak.

Well, Isak was not perhaps in the best of humour just then, not exactly gentle and content,
no, for he had started work on that sawmill, and it was a slow and toilsome business; he couldn't
hold the baulks with one hand, and a level in the other, and fix ends at the same time. But
when the boys came back from school again it was easier; the lads were useful and a help, bless
them! Sivert especially had a genius for knocking in nails, but Eleseus was better at handling
a plumb-line. By the end of a week, Isak and the boys had actually got the foundation posts
in, and soundly fixed with stretcher pieces as thick as the beams themselves.

It worked out all right--everything worked out all right somehow. But Isak was beginning to
feel tired in the evenings now--whatever it could be. It was not only building a sawmill and
getting that done--there was everything else besides. The hay was in, but the corn was standing
yet, soon it would have to be cut and stacked: there were the potatoes too, they would have
to be taken up before long. But the boys were a wonderful help. He did not thank them; 'twas
not the way among folk of their sort, but he was mightily pleased with them for all that. Now
and again they would sit down in the middle of their work and talk together, the father almost
asking his sons' advice as to what they should do next. Those were proud moments for the lads,
they learned also to think well before they spoke, lest they should be in the wrong.

"'Twould be a pity not to have the saw roofed in before the autumn rains," said their father.

If only Inger had been as in the old days! But Inger was not so strong as she had been, it
seemed, and that was natural enough after her long spell within walls. That her mind, too,
seemed changed was another matter. Strange, how little thought, how little care, she seemed
to take now; shallow and heedless--was this Inger?

One day she spoke of the child she had killed.

"And a fool I was to do it," she said. "We might have had her mouth sewed up too, and then
I needn't have throttled her." And she never stole off now to a tiny grave in the forest, where
once she had patted the earth with her hands and set up a little cross.

But Inger was not altogether heartless yet; she cared for her other children, kept them clean
and made new clothes for them; she would sit up late at night mending their things. It was
her ambition to see them get on in the world.

The corn was stacked, and the potatoes were taken up. Then came the winter. No, the sawmill
did not get roofed in that autumn, but that could not be helped--after all, 'twas not a matter
of life or death. Next summer would be time and means enough.

Chapter XIII

The winter round of work was as before; carting wood, mending tools and implements. Inger kept
house, and did sewing in her spare time. The boys were down in the village again for the long
term at school. For several winters past they had had a pair of ski between them; they managed
well enough that way as long as they were at home, one waiting while the other took his turn,
or one standing on behind the other. Ay, they managed finely with but one pair, it was the
finest thing they knew, and they were innocent and glad. But down in the village things were
different. The school was full of ski; even the children at Breidablik, it seemed, had each
a pair. And the end of it was that Isak had to make a new pair for Eleseus, Sivert keeping
the old pair for his own.

Isak did more; he had the boys well clad, and gave them everlasting boots. But when that was
done, Isak went to the storekeeper and asked for a ring.

"A ring?" said the man.

"A finger ring. Ay, I've grown that high and mighty now I must give my wife a ring."

"Do you want a silver one, or gold, or just a brass ring dipped to look like gold?"

"Let's say a silver ring."

The storekeeper thought for a while.

"Look you, Isak," he said. "If you want to do the proper thing, and give your wife a ring she
needn't be ashamed to wear, you'd better make it a gold ring."

"What!" said Isak aloud. Though maybe in his inmost heart he had been thinking of a gold ring
all the time.

They talked the matter over seriously, and agreed about getting a measurement of some sort
for the ring. Isak was thoughtful, and shook his head and reckoned it was a big thing to do,
but the storekeeper refused to order anything but a gold ring. Isak went home again, secretly
pleased with his decision, but somewhat anxious, for all that, at the extravagant lengths he
had gone to, all for being in love with his wife.

There was a good average snowfall that winter, and early in the year, when the roads were passable,
folk from the village began carting up telegraph poles over the moors, dropping their loads
at regular intervals. They drove big teams, and came up past Breidablik, past Sellanraa farm,
and met new teams beyond, coming down with poles from the other side of the hills--the line
was complete.

So life went on day by day, without any great event. What was there to happen, anyway? Spring
came, and the work of setting up the poles began. Brede Olsen was there again, with the gangs,
though he should have been working on his own land at that season. "'Tis a wonder he's the
time," thought Isak.

Isak himself had barely time to eat and sleep; it was a close thing to get through the season's
work now, with all the land he had brought under tillage.

Then, between seasons, he got his sawmill roofed in, and could set to work putting up the machine
parts. And look you, 'twas no marvel of fine woodwork he had set up, but strong it was, as
a giant of the hills, and stood there to good use. The saw could work, and cut as a sawmill
should; Isak had kept his eyes about him down in the village, and used them well. It was hearty
and small, this sawmill he had built, but he was pleased with it; he carved the date above
the doorway, and put his mark.

And that summer, something more than usual did come about after all at Sellanraa.

The telegraph workers had now reached so far up over the moors that the foremost gang came
to the farm one evening and asked to be lodged for the night. They were given shelter in the
big barn. As the days went on, the other gangs came along, and all were housed at Sellanraa.
The work went on ahead, passing the farm, but the men still came back to sleep in the barn.
One Saturday evening came the engineer in charge, to pay the men.

At sight of the engineer, Eleseus felt his heart jump, and stole out of the house lest he should
be asked about that coloured pencil. Oh, there would be trouble now--and Sivert nowhere to
be seen; he would have to face it alone. Eleseus slipped round the corner of the house, like
a pale ghost, found his mother, and begged her to tell Sivert to come. There was no help for
it now.

Sivert took the matter less to heart--but then, he was not the chief culprit. The two brothers
went a little way off and sat down, and Eleseus said: "If you'd say it was you, now!"

"Me?" said Sivert.

"You're younger, he wouldn't do anything to you."

Sivert thought over it, and saw that his brother was in distress; also it flattered him to
feel that the other needed his help.

"Why, I might help you out of it, perhaps," said he in a grown-up voice.

"Ay, if you would!" said Eleseus, and quite simply gave his brother the bit of pencil that
was left. "You can have it for keeps," he said.

They were going in again together, but Eleseus recollected he had something he must do over
at the sawmill, or rather, at the cornmill; something he must look to, and it would take some
time--he wouldn't be finished just yet. Sivert went in alone.

There sat the engineer, paying out notes and silver, and when he had finished, Inger gave him
milk to drink, a jug and a glass, and he thanked her. Then he talked to little Leopoldine,
and then, noticing the drawings on the walls, asked straight out who had done that. "Was it
you?" he asked, turning to Sivert. The man felt, perhaps, he owed something for Inger's hospitality,
and praised the drawings just to please her. Inger, on her part, explained the matter as it
was: it was her boys had made the drawings--both of them. They had no paper till she came home
and looked to things, so they had marked all about the walls. But she hadn't the heart to wash
it off again.

"Why, leave it as it is," said the engineer. "Paper, did you say?" And he took out a heap of
big sheets. "There, draw away on that till I come round again. And how are you off for pencils?"

Sivert stepped forward simply with the stump he had, and showed how small it was. And behold,
the man gave him a new coloured pencil, not even sharpened. "There, now you can start afresh.
But I'd make the horses red if I were you, and do the goats with blue. Never seen a blue horse,
have you?"

And the engineer went on his way.

That same evening, a man came up from the village with a basket--he handed out some bottles
to the workmen, and went off again. But after he had gone, it was no longer so quiet about
the place; some one played an accordion, the men talked loudly, and there was singing, and
even dancing, at Sellanraa. One of the men asked Inger out to dance, and Inger--who would have
thought it of her?--she laughed a little laugh and actually danced a few turns round. After
that, some of the others asked her, and she danced not a little in the end.

Inger--who could say what was in her mind? Here she was dancing gaily, maybe for the first
time in her life; sought after, riotously pursued by thirty men, and she alone, the only one
to choose from, no one to cut her out. And those burly telegraph men--how they lifted her!
Why not dance? Eleseus and Sivert were fast asleep in the little chamber, undisturbed by all
the noise outside; little Leopoldine was up, looking on wonderingly at her mother as she danced.

Isak was out in the fields all the time; he had gone off directly after supper, and when he
came home to go to bed, some one offered him a bottle. He drank a little, and sat watching
the dancing, with Leopoldine on his lap.

"'Tis a gay time you're having," said he kindly to Inger--"footing it properly tonight!"

After a while, the music stopped, and the dance was over. The workmen got ready to leave--they
were going down to the village for the rest of the evening, and would be there all next day,
coming back on Monday morning. Soon all was quiet again at Sellanraa; a couple of the older
men stayed behind, and turned in to sleep in the barn.

Isak woke up in the night--Inger was not there. Could she be gone to see to the cows? He got
up and went across to the cowshed. "Inger!" he called. No answer. The cows turned their heads
and looked at him; all was still. Unthinkingly, from ancient habit, he counted heads, counted
the sheep also; there was one of the ewes had a bad habit of staying out at night--and out
it was now, "Inger!" he called again. Still no answer. Surely she couldn't have gone with them
down to the village?

The summer night was light and warm. Isak stayed a while sitting on the door-slab, then he
went out into the woods to look for the ewe. And he found Inger. Inger and one other. They
sat in the heather, she twirling his peaked cap on one finger, both talking together--they
were after her again, it seemed.

Isak trundled slowly over towards them. Inger turned and saw him, and bowed forward where she
sat; all the life went out of her, she hung like a rag.

"H'm. Did you know that ewe's out again?" asked Isak. "But no, you wouldn't know," said he.

The young telegraph hand picked up his cap and began sidling away. "I'll be getting along after
the others," he said. "Good-night to ye." No one answered.

"So you're sitting here," said Isak. "Going to stay out a bit, maybe?" And he turned towards
home. Inger rose to her knees, got on her feet and followed after, and so they went, man in
front and wife behind, tandem-wise. They went home.

Inger must have found time to think. Oh, she found a way. "'Twas the ewe I was after," said
she. "I saw it was out again. Then one of the men came up and helped me look. We'd not been
sitting a moment when you came. Where are you going now?"

"I? Seems I'd better look for the creature myself."

"No, no, go and lie down. If any one's to go, let me. Go and lie down, you'll be needing rest.
And as for that, the ewe can stay out where she is--'twon't be the first time."

"And be eaten up by some beast or other," said Isak, and went off.

Inger ran after him. "Don't, don't, it's not worth it," she said. "You need rest. Let me go."

Isak gave in. But he would not hear of Inger going out to search by herself. And they went
indoors together.

Inger turned at once to look for the children; went into the little chamber to see to the boys,
as if she had been out on some perfectly natural errand; it almost seemed, indeed, as if she
were trying to make up to Isak--as if she expected him to be more in love with her than ever
that evening--after she had explained it all so neatly. But no, Isak was not so easy to turn;
he would rather have seen her thoroughly distressed and beside herself with contrition. Ay,
that would have been better. What matter that she had collapsed for a moment when he came on
her in the woods; the little moment of shame--what was the good of that when it all passed
off so soon?

He was far from gentle, too, the next day, and that a Sunday; went off and looked to the sawmill,
looked to the cornmill, looked over the fields, with the children or by himself. Most of the days were reduced to happen next eating in front
of the house of a wealthy merchant, to go to the casino. Cecilia used to be sewing behind glass.
His hat, smile, go ahead, then the pool, and even another day. Don Melchor was charged twice more
errands for Don Rosendo, but had the good lucky to find him always in the office. We say good
luck, because Gonzalo trembled before the idea of ​​going up to the house and tripped over Cecilia.

Had
already served twenty years.

The idea of ​​becoming an industrial engineer and engaging in something useful, occasionally
returning to his spirit in the midst of lazy life. Comrade which turned from a military academy,
the conversation with a British engineer, the phrase of contempt in the casino I heard about
that had no career, despertábanle Suddenly the desire. Finally, one day he told his uncle
that if he gave permission was going to England to study something and see the world. As Don Melchor
nothing could be opposed to this just and laudable purpose, Gonzalo ran a few days after the houses
of relatives and friends, where for years that not set foot, to say goodbye, and a peaceful and
beautiful late spring embarked Watch round the brig bound for Britain.

Do you remember Cecilia? We do not know. In temperaments like our youth, fire of the passions
takes time to turn, although in the end cause havoc.

Three years passed. He finished the race engineer who is short and practice in England and was
determined to visit the main factories in this country and France and Germany. In the studying long
lasting memory of Cecilia asaltábale from time to time, without cause, of course, very lively
emotion. Back in the spring when the blood flows more strongly veins and Mother Nature with
the green of the fields, the vivid colors flowers, the play of light, warm balmy air, and above all,
through their interpreters loyal, birds, invites us to consent in any way that the human species
extinguished, Gonzalo thought of marriage. And if this idea arose in his mind, presentábasele suddenly
made flesh in the first child of the lords of Belinchón: - "Come in, Gonzalo; Dad is waiting. ""
Do you hurt? "- was played again in his ears the words and affectionate tone with which they
were delivered up in their heart a spark of virgin sympathy. The girl was not beautiful, but
her eyes do, especially in her appeal revelábase sex in the air modest and simple, the tone of voice,
exquisite delicacy, entirely female manners. "I hate to marry her" thought with a sigh; because he
judged it impossible to dare to tell it not to miss any single word love. Until then I did not know
of such passion that the appearance and coarse material, the fleeting relationships, and sad
that women forced by night in the streets of London and Paris.

One day writing a close friend of Sarrió came up asking if Cecilia
Belinchón had married.

Then said it was still single and that if it was true that some the haunted suitors enticed perhaps
by the money rather than Belinchón thank your daughter, until now no one knew who had given
ear to anyone. As you read this, you raised the blood to the face to the industrial engineer.
He had the conceit to think (to be exempted by God) Cecilia rejected the suitors in your hand
... because none was so handsome as him. Then imagine declare his love letter. Being so far
away would not shame. However, had it, and when he tried to take the pen to do so, before drawing
the first line, turned to leave when they represented the surprise that the young receive. It
was a few days. The idea never left him. By a thousand subtle reasoning tried to persuade
to write the love letter. If you laughed at him, what? did not see him. With never to return
to Sarriówas concluded, and if she would try and find it not front. At last he wrote. Took hold of
it stored in his desk drawer for several days. The idea of send it off was terrified. To decide
this, needed to drink a few glasses of rum. When he was a little dizzy took the letter from
the drawer, threw himself into the streets with verve, and mailbox first encountered your
eyes, zap! the fit.

My God, what have I done! Vanished as drunkenness.

Flushed to the ears, as if through the hole in that box you're looking at the mocking eyes
of all neighbors Sarrió, and hastened to put your fingers on it to see if it could catch the
ill-fated envelope. Nothing. It had been engulfed with the voracity of a shark, and I was
already digested. Then occurred to be in the post office and claim it, but there demanded such
formalities, before passing them preferred to let fortune.

He spent eight days in great distress. When the cards are dealt at the inn, he felt an anxiety
that stifled him, expecting to reach the packet enclosed in a huge, ugly pumpkins, just punishment
and its too much bullshit. Passed, however, eight days and even fifteen, and the answer did
not appear. It was calming with the vague hope that the letter had not reached its destination.
If reached, the illusion that forjábase Cecilia would have broken without informing anyone. But
behold, when I did not expect, is at lunchtime on the plate a letter from Spain, female unknown
letter. Is unrepresentable the anguish which assailed him. She got as white as the tablecloth. The heart
wanted saltársele chest. Opened it with trembling hands ... Ahaa! sighed rested, after having
eaten in two seconds. She took his hand to his chest, limpióse sweat with a handkerchief, and
resumed the letter and reread it in stride.

It was, in fact, Cecilia, and was written in a gently ironic tone, that had nothing, however,
offensive. Manifestábase surprised at his sudden and unexpected return. What fly had stung after
four years of absence? His parents, who before her had opened the letter, were equally surprised,
thought it was a step thoughtless own a few years, a whim of the moment, which probably would already
be sorry. She shared this view entirely. However, had permitted and even recommended to answer, because
it is a young villager, whose family maintained relations friendship.

This letter will soon put thrilled.

No pumpkins were dismissive expected. Then he grew sad and happy the minute again, reading and
rereading it to see if it gave in the key. Were or were not pumpkins? Hastened to reply, apologizing
for his boldness, and confirmed its previous statement with new and vehement phrases. He replied after
some days the child in a more soft and affectionate. Turned to writing Gonzalo; cruzáronse portraits
Dona Paula intervened. In short, after a short time, were two young men in relation formal. He began
to talk of marriage between Don Melchor half letter and his nephew, then visits between the former
and Don Rosendo. Finally everything was settled, agreeing that the Gonzalo return spring, and he
performed the marriage.

III

THE COUPLE IN LOVE BEGINS TO THINK IN THE NEST

Out of the theater
and those who remained.

Gonzalo stumbled upon the wave of people who vomited the door, and
as was recognized, were quick to surround you and greet old friends.

The first threw her arms around his neck was Don Mateo, then came Don Pedro Miranda Parakeet
child, then Mayor Roque after Victoriano and his wife Dona Rosario and his three daughters. In an
instant circle was formed around the young, who rushed to respond warmly to the congratulations,
hugs and handshakes that all sites will came. The sailors, the village women took part in those
manifestations of affection as well as the gentlemen. Nothing was heard but exclamations of wonder
and joy.

- How have you gained weight, Gonzalito .-- What a real boy! - Why
do not you grow like him, parakeet? - Don Gonzalo, soups do you eat
them in the head at all .-- Growing Sarrió porters has grown what
he has done is to double the body .-- Come, grenadier, give me a tight
hug.

A skipper said it seemed like a drop of water to another Prince of
Wales.

Gonzalo was perhaps a little higher.

The hulk of this robust, towered over the group. Clasped hands above their heads friends who could
not reached him, and his noble and kindly face smiling at everyone.

Don Mateo, rising on the toes and swinging the arm to bend, could
say in his ear:

- What role have you lost, Gonzalo!

Too bad you did not come in the afternoon. The treble sang like an angel ... And dancing! ...
The dance I say, boy, that neither in the Coruña Bilbao or better take it out ... But be not wroth,
and I will repeat before he leaves the company ... or have little power.

But Gonzalez did not attend. Staring at the door, waiting for the restless and eager output
Belinchón family, who as principal and the most haughty, was delayed always not to be confused
with the populace. In order to light the lantern burning on the framework the door, he saw the
face of Dona Paula and then that of Cecilia. Tremulous Abalanzóse to greet them. The daughter
blushed like a turkey (of course), and the mother too (this is less natural). What had to
do to him? Blush also, and this was what led out in a perfect way. Three were trembling voice,
and after asking for health, did not know what to say. Loaded glances of curious people contributed
in pregnant women. Pablito happily came to Ventura, who had left behind, and our young greeted
warmly and directed first to the second one ceremonial pitch.

Paul smiled.

- What, do you not know? Ventura is my sister.

- Oh! How could he know? She is a woman ... How are you, Ventura?

The girl reached for him with a malicious and mocking speech that you just embarrass you.

They stood up to the house. Venturita ran ahead dragging his brother. Marched behind Dona Paula,
Cecilia, Gonzalo. Rosendo brought up the rear with his good friend Pedro Miranda. The streets
were dark. Only those hours burning lanterns corner. The distance between the three groups
was becoming larger.

Gonzalo began making desperate efforts to hold the conversation with your future wife and mother,
but it is not opened his mouth, dominated, no doubt, shame, and Dona Paula walked very far from
being a Madame de Stael. Nor had helped him Conversation Dictionary, the result was that it did not
prosper. By letters had come to trust. Dona Paula often put postscripts in Cecilia. Gonzalo replied
with a wisecrack, ordered prints, caricatures for Ventura, and carried around as a member of the
family. But now the three experienced discomfort embarrassing. Our young in his life he had
spoken with Mrs. Belinchón, and Cecilia had only crossed the words
we said.

Then, up ahead, Venturita laughed out loud with his brother, and boyfriends reasonably presumed
that they were on the table. However, when approached, home, the conversation was taking heat
and had some symptoms to believe that soon would king's confidence.

Formosa group to the door of the house of lords Belinchón, which was located in la Rúa Nueva,
the main street Sarrió, and was large and sumptuous for which there stylish. As Gonzalo had
not eaten yet, Rosendo invited him up to do with them so true, and with words so pressing that
the young man who wanted nothing, he concluded to accept. They took leave Mr. Miranda and his son
Parakeet, and the family Belinchón with the new guy was going to be part of it, went to the house.
At the reception, the ladies took off their coats and shawls. The light returned to upsetting them.
Gonzalo could well then see his girlfriend, and noted that he had not won anything in years
of absence. Was higher, but also thinner. The love does not get fat girls. The nose, with this,
had been even more pronounced. Only those beautiful eyes, smooth, intelligent, persisted to shine
like two stars. The transformation of Venturita girl who looked cross for school, clinging
to the maid to keep jumping over him attracted wide attention. She was a woman, a real woman,
not so much height, as roundness and breadth of forms, for the singular
strength of his vision and Malicious certain glow that accompanied it.

Examináronse both as two strangers in a quick glance.

Gonzalo said under his breath at Dona Paula:

- What a change the Venturita!

It's a beautiful girl.

For lower than what the girl said she heard it. Became serious with involvement, made a slight
grimace of contempt with their lips, and went right to the dining room, hiding the pleasant tingling
that this compliment had caused so spontaneous.

The table was set: a table patriarchal province, abundant, clean, without flowers or the other
elegant refinements that civilization is introduced. And to approach it, Gonzalo's pregnancy was
missing. It seemed that yesterday I had dinner there too. A gust blew joy to everyone. Cambiáronse
words and laughter. Gonzalo embraced Pablito and asked for their
horses. Dona Paula managed the distribution of silverware.

Venturita sitting and, downed olives, tossing the bones to his sister
and making provocative winks, while she, with flushed cheeks and bright
eyes, put her finger to lips asking for discretion.

Don Rosendo had gone to put on your gown and cap, without which it
would have hurt dinner.

His wife invited the young stranger to sit in the neighbor set that
of Cecilia.

But it had happened at the other end of the table, and there was about to sit.

- What are you doing, girl? Why do not you come to your site? - Dona Paula asked with surprise.

The
young man stood up without reply, blushed, and sat down next to her boyfriend.

The classic soup steamed with eggs and butter in the center of the table.

- Look, do dish Gonzalo ... Already beginning to serve you - you said after smiling kindly as
a woman who professed similar ideas to those expressed by St. Paul
in his famous letter.

Cecilia hurried to obey, filling the bowl of his future.

This had usually an excellent appetite, appropriate to his great
humanity. Now, over-excited by the air sea ​​and a few hours of fasting,
was voracious. Ate without leaving crumbs without any timidity, the
placed before him, and that Cecilia, as may be supposed, had no short-hand
to help you. When she began to eat, lost Gonzalo shame. The urgent
need for your body gigantea was essential. In contrast, Cecilia barely
touched on the food. Displaying on your plate two bits of ham the
size of two walnuts, and asked the young man

- Who do you make this
dish, for the parrot?

- No, it's for me.

- Are not you afraid that
you indigestion?

It was the first joke authorizing its future. But as long as I'm Inspector here, and hold an official position,
of course I can't neglect my duties. If I hadn't the telegraph, of course ... and it may not
be for long...."

"Why?" said Isak. "You thinking of giving it up, maybe?"

"Well, I can't say exactly," said Brede. "I haven't quite decided. They want me to move down
into the village again."

"Who is it wants you?" asked Isak.

"Oh, all of them. The Lensmand wants me to go and be assistant there again, and the doctor
wants me to drive for him, and the parson's wife said more than once she misses me to lend
a hand, if it wasn't such a long way to go. How was it with that strip of hill, Isak--the bit
you sold? Did you get as much for it as they say?"

"Ay, 'tis no lie," answered Isak.

"But what did Geissler want with it, anyway? It lies there still--curious thing! Year after
year and nothing done."

It was a curious thing; Isak had often wondered about it himself; he had spoken to the Lensmand
about it, and asked for Geissler's address, thinking to write to him ... Ay, it was a mystery.

"'Tis more than I can say," said Isak.

Brede made no secret of his interest in this matter of the sale. "They say there's more of
the same sort up there," he said, "besides yours. Maybe there's more in it than we know. 'Tis
a pity that we should sit here like dumb beasts and know nothing of it all. I've thought of
going up one day myself to have a look."

"But do you know anything about metals and such-like?" asked Isak.

"Why, I know a bit. And I've asked one or two others. Anyhow, I'll have to find something;
I can't live and keep us all here on this bit of a farm. It's sheer impossible. 'Twas another
matter with you that's got all that timber and good soil below. 'Tis naught but moorland here."

"Moorland's good soil enough," said Isak shortly. "I've the same myself."

"But there's no draining it," said Brede.... "It can't be done."

But it could be done. Coming down the road that day Isak noticed other clearings; two of them
were lower down, nearer the village, but there was one far up above, between Breidablik and
Sellanraa--ay, men were beginning to work on the land now; in the old days when Isak first
came up, it had lain waste all of it. And these three new settlers were folks from another
district; men with some sense in their heads, by the look of things. They didn't begin by borrowing
money to build a house; no, they came up one year and did their spade work and went away again;
vanished as if they were dead. That was the proper way; ditching first, then plough and sow.
Axel Ström was nearest to Isak's land now, his next-door neighbour. A clever fellow, unmarried,
he came from Helgeland. He had borrowed Isak's new harrow to break up his soil, and not till
the second year had he set up a hayshed and a turf hut for himself and a couple of animals.
He had called his place Maaneland, because it looked nice in the moonlight. He had no womenfolk
himself, and found it difficult to get help in the summer, lying so far out, but he managed
things the right way, no doubt about that. Not as Brede Olsen did, building a house first,
and then coming up with a big family and little ones and all, with neither soil nor stock to
feed them. What did Brede Olsen know of draining moorland and breaking new soil?

He knew how to waste his time idling, did Brede. He came by Sellanraa one day, going up to
the hills--simply to look for precious metals. He came back the same evening; had not found
anything definite, he said, but certain signs--and he nodded. He would come up again soon,
and go over the hills thoroughly, over towards Sweden.

And sure enough, Brede came up again. He had taken a fancy to the work, no doubt; but he called
it telegraph business this time--must go up and look over the whole of the line. Meanwhile
his wife and children at home looked after the farm, or left it to look after itself. Isak
was sick and tired of Brede's visits, and went out of the room when he came; then Inger and
Brede would sit talking heartily together. What could they have to talk about? Brede often
went down to the village, and had always some news to tell of the great folk there; Inger,
on the other hand, could always draw upon her famous journey to Trondhjem and her stay there.
She had grown talkative in the years she had been away, and was always ready to gossip with
any one. No, she was no longer the same straightforward, simple Inger of the old days.

Girls and women came up continually to Sellanraa to have a piece of work cut out, or a long
hem put through the machine in a moment, and Inger entertained them well. Oline too came again,
couldn't help it, belike; came both spring and autumn; fair-spoken, soft as butter, and thoroughly
false. "Just looked along to see how things are with you," she said each time. "And I've been
longing so for a sight of the lads, I'm that fond of them, the little angels they were. Ay,
they're big fellows now, but it's strange ... I can't forget the time when they were small
and I had them in my care. And here's you building and building again, and making a whole town
of the place. Going to have a bell to ring, maybe, at the roof of the barn, same as at the
parsonage?"

Once Oline came and brought another woman with her, and the pair of them and Inger had a nice
day together. The more Inger had sitting round her, the better she worked at her sewing and
cutting out, making a show of it, waving her scissors and swinging the iron. It reminded her
of the place where she had learned it all--there was always many of them in the workrooms there.
Inger made no secret of where she had got her knowledge and all her art from; it was from Trondhjem.
It almost appeared as if she had not been in prison at all, in the ordinary way, but at school,
in an institute, where one could learn to sew and weave and write, and do dressing and dyeing--all
that she had learned in Trondhjem. She spoke of the place as of a home; there were so many
people she knew there, superintendents and forewomen and attendants, it had been dull and empty
to come back here again, and hard to find herself altogether cut off from the life and society
she had been accustomed to. She even made some show of having a cold--couldn't stand the keen
air there; for years after her return she had been too poorly to work out of doors in all seasons.
It was for the outside work she really ought to have a servant.

"Ay, Heaven save us," said Oline, "and why shouldn't you have a servant indeed, when you've
means and learning and a great fine house and all!"

It was pleasant to meet with sympathy, and Inger did not deny it. She worked away at her machine
till the place shook, and the ring on her finger shone.

"There, you can see for yourself," said Oline to the woman with her. "It's true what I said,
Inger she wears a gold ring on her finger."

"Would you like to see it?" asked Inger, taking it off.

Oline seemed still to have her doubts; she turned it in her fingers as a monkey with a nut,
looked at the mark. "Ay, 'tis as I say; Inger with all her means and riches."

The other woman took the ring with veneration, and smiled humbly. "You can put it on for a
bit if you like," said Inger. "Don't be afraid, it won't break."

And Inger was amiable and kind. She told them about the cathedral at Trondhjem, and began like
this: "You haven't seen the cathedral at Trondhjem, maybe? No, you haven't been there!" And
it might have been her own cathedral, from the way she praised it, boasted of it, told them
height and breadth; it was a marvel! Seven priests could stand there preaching all at once
and never hear one another. "And then I suppose you've never seen St. Olaf's Well? Right in
the middle of the cathedral itself, it is, on one side, and it's a bottomless well. When we
went there, we took each a little stone with us, and dropped it in, but it never reached the
bottom."

"Never reached the bottom?" whispered the two women, shaking their heads.

"And there's a thousand other things besides in that cathedral," exclaimed Inger delightedly.
"There's the silver chest to begin with. It's Holy St. Olaf his own silver chest that he had.
But the Marble Church--that was a little church all of pure marble--the Danes took that from
us in the war...."

It was time for the women to go. Oline took Inger aside, led her out into the larder where
she knew all the cheeses were stored, and closed the door. "What is it?" asked Inger.

Oline whispered: "Os-Anders, he doesn't dare come here any more. I've told him."

"Ho!" said Inger.

"I told him if he only dared, after what he'd done to you."

"Ay," said Inger. "But he's been here many a time since for all that. And he can come if he
likes, I'm not afraid."

"No, that's so," said Oline. "But I know what I know, and if you like, I'll lay a charge against
him."

"Ho!" said Inger. "No, you've no call to do that. Tis not worth it."

But she was not ill pleased to have Oline on her side; it cost her a cheese, to be sure, but
Oline thanked her so fulsomely: "'Tis as I say, 'tis as I've always said: Inger, she gives
with both hands; nothing grudging, nothing sparing about her! No, maybe you're not afraid of
Os-Anders, but I've forbid him to come here all the same. 'Twas the least I could do for you."

Said Inger then: "What harm could it do if he did come, anyway? He can't hurt me any more."

Oline pricked up her ears: "Ho, you've learned a way yourself, maybe?"

"I shan't have any more children," said Inger.

And now they were quits, each holding as good a trump as the other: for Oline stood there knowing
all the time that Os-Anders the Lapp had died the day before....

       *       *       *       *       *

Why should Inger say that about having no more children? She was not on bad terms with her
husband, 'twas no cat-and-dog life between them--far from it. They had each their own little
ways, but it was rarely they quarrelled, and never for long at a time; it was soon made up.
And many a time Inger would suddenly be just as she had been in the old days, working hard
in the cowshed or in the field; as if she had had a relapse into health again. And at such
times Isak would look at his wife with grateful eyes; if he had been the sort of man to speak
his mind at once, he might have said, "H'm. What does this mean, heh?" or something of the
sort, just to show he appreciated it. But he waited too long, and his praise came too late.
So Inger, no doubt, found it not worth while, and did not care to keep it up.

She might have had children till past fifty; as it was, she was perhaps hardly forty now. She
had learned all sorts of things at the institution--had she also learned to play tricks with
herself? She had come back so thoroughly trained and educated after her long association with
the other murderesses; maybe the men had taught her something too--the gaolers, the doctors.
She told Isak one day what one young medical man had said of her little crime: "Why should
it be a criminal offence to kill children--ay, even healthy children? They were nothing but
lumps of flesh after all."

Isak asked: "Wasn't he terribly cruel himself, then?"

"Him!" exclaimed Inger, and told how kind he had been to her herself; it was he who had got
another doctor to operate on her mouth and make a human being of her. Now there was only a
scar to be seen.

Only a scar, yes. And a fine woman she was in her way, tall and not over-stout, dark, with
rich hair; in summer she went barefooted mostly, and with her skirt kilted high; Inger was
not afraid of letting her calves be seen. Isak saw them--as who did not!

They did not quarrel, no. Isak had no talent for quarrelling, and his wife had grown readier-witted
to answer back. A thorough good quarrel took a long time to grow with Isak, heavy stub of a
man as he was; he found himself all entangled in her words, and could say next to nothing himself;
and besides, he was fond of her--powerfully in love was Isak. And it was not often he had any
need to answer. Inger did not complain; he was an excellent husband in many ways, and she let
him alone. What had she to complain of at all? Isak was not a man to be despised; she might
have married a worse. Worn out, was he? True, he showed signs of being tired now at times,
but nothing serious. He was full of old health and unwasted strength, like herself, and in
this autumn of their married life he fulfilled his part at least as affectionately as she did.

But nothing particularly beautiful nor grand about him? No. And here came her superiority.
Inger might well think to herself at times how she had seen finer men; handsome gentlemen with
walking-sticks and handkerchiefs and starched collars to wear--oh, those gentlemen of the town!
And so she kept Isak in his place, treated him, as it were, no better than he deserved. He
was only a peasant, a clodhopper of the wilds; if her mouth had been as it was now from the
start she would never have taken him; be sure of that. No, she could have done better than
that! The home he had given her, the life he offered her, were poor enough; she might at least
have married some one from her own village, and lived among neighbours, with a circle of friends,
instead of here like an outcast in the wilds. It was not the place for her now; she had learned
to look differently at life.

Strange, how one could come to look differently at things! Inger found no pleasure now in admiring
a new calf; she did not clap her hands in surprise when Isak came down from the hills with
a big basket of fish; no, she had lived for six years among greater things. And of late she
had even ceased to be heavenly and sweet when she called him in to dinner. "Your food's ready,
aren't you coming in?" was all she said now. And it didn't sound nice. Isak wondered a little
at first; it was a curious way to speak; a nasty, uncaring, take-it-or-leave-it way to speak.
And he answered: "Why, I didn't know 'twas ready." But when Inger pointed out that he ought
to have known, or might have guessed it, anyway, by the sun, he said no more, and let the matter
drop.

Ah, but once he got a hold on her and used it--that was when she tried to steal his money from
him. Not that Isak was a miser in that way, but the money was clearly his. Ho, it was nearly
being ruin and disaster for her that time! But even then it was not exactly thoroughgoing,
out-and-out wickedness on Inger's part; she wanted the money for Eleseus--for her blessed boy
Eleseus in town, who was asking for his Daler again. Was he to go there among all the fine
folk and with empty pockets? After all, she had a mother's heart. She asked his father for
the money first, and, finding it was no good, had taken it herself. Whether Isak had had some
suspicion beforehand, or had found it out by accident--anyhow, it was found out. And suddenly
Inger found herself gripped by both arms, felt herself lifted from the floor, and thumped down
on to the floor again. It was something strange and terrible--a sort of avalanche. Isak's hands
were not weak, not worn out now. Inger gave a groan, her head fell back, she shivered, and
gave up the money.

Even then Isak said little, though Inger made no attempt to hinder him from speaking. What
he did say was uttered, as it were, in one hard breath: "Huttch! You--you're not fit to have
in the place!"

She hardly knew him again. Oh, but it must have been long-stored bitterness that would not
be repressed.

A miserable day, and a long night, and a day beyond. Isak went out of the house and lay outside,
for all that there was hay to be got in; Sivert was with his father. Inger had little Leopoldine
and the animals to keep her company; but lonely she was for all that, crying nearly all the
time and shaking her head at herself. Only once in all her life before had she felt so moved,
and this day called it to mind; it was when she had lain in her bed and throttled a newborn child.

Where were Isak and his son? They had not been idle; no, they had stolen a day and a night
or thereabouts from the haymaking, and had built a boat up on the lake. Oh, a rough and poor-looking
vessel enough, but strong and sound as their work had always been; they had a boat now, and
could go fishing with nets.

When they came home the hay was dry as ever. They had cheated providence by trusting it, and
suffered no loss; they had gained by it. And then Sivert flung out an arm, and said: "Ho! Mother's
been haymaking!" Isak looked down over the fields and said "H'm." Isak had noticed already
that some of the hay had been shifted; Inger ought to be home now for her midday meal. It was
well done indeed of her to get in the hay, after he had scolded her the day before and said
"Huttch!" And it was no light hay to move; she must have worked hard, and all the cows and
goats to milk besides.... "Go in and get something to eat," he said to Sivert.

"Aren't you coming, then?"

"No."

A little while after, Inger came out and stood humbly on the door-slab and said:

"If you'd think of yourself a little--and come in and have a bite to eat."

Isak grumbled at that and said "H'm." But it was so strange a thing of late for Inger to be
humble in any way, that his stubbornness was shaken.

"If you could manage to set a couple of teeth in my rake, I could get on again with the hay,"
said she. Ay, she came to her husband, the master of the place, to ask for something, and was
grateful that he did not turn scornfully away.

"You've worked enough," said he, "raking and carting and all."

"No, 'tis not enough."

"I've no time, anyway, to mend rakes now. You can see there's rain coming soon."

And Isak went off to his work.

It was all meant to save her, no doubt; for the couple of minutes it would have taken to mend
the rake would have been more than tenfold repaid by letting Inger work on. Anyhow, Inger came
out with her rake as it was, and fell to haymaking with a will; Sivert came up with the horse
and haycart, and all went at it, sweating at the work, and the hay was got in. It was a good
stroke of work, and Isak fell to thinking once more of the powers above that guide all our
ways--from stealing a Daler to getting a crop of hay. Moreover, there lay the boat; after half
a generation of thinking it over, the boat was finished; it was there, up on the lake.

"Eyah, Herregud!" said Isak.

Chapter XV

It was a strange evening altogether: a turning-point. Inger had been running off the line for
a long time now; and one lift up from the floor had set her in her place again. Neither spoke
of what had happened. Isak had felt ashamed of himself after--all for the sake of a Daler,
a trifle of money, that he would have had to give her after all, because he himself would gladly
have let the boy have it. And then again--was not the money as much Inger's as his own? There
came a time when Isak found it his turn to be humble.

There came many sorts of times. Inger must have changed her mind again, it seemed; once more
she was different, gradually forgetting her fine ways and turning earnest anew: a settler's
wife, earnest and thoughtful as she had been before. To think that a man's hard grip could
work such wonders! But it was right; here was a strong and healthy woman, sensible enough,
but spoiled and warped by long confinement in an artificial air--and she had butted into a
man who stood firmly on his feet. Never for a moment had he left his natural place on the earth,
on the soil. Nothing could move him.

Many sorts of times. Next year came the drought again, killing the growth off slowly, and wearing
down human courage. The corn stood there and shrivelled up; the potatoes--the wonderful potatoes--they
did not shrivel up, but flowered and flowered. The meadows turned grey, but the potatoes flowered.
The powers above guided all things, no doubt, but the meadows were turning grey.

Then one day came Geissler--ex-Lensmand Geissler came again at last. It was good to find that
he was not dead, but had turned up again. And what had he come for now?

Geissler had no grand surprises with him this time, by the look of it; no purchases of mining
rights and documents and such-like. Geissler was poorly dressed, his hair and beard turned
greyer, and his eyes redder at the edges than before. He had no man, either, to carry his things,
but had his papers in a pocket, and not even a bag.

"Goddag" said Geissler.

"Goddag" answered Isak and Inger. "Here's the like of visitors to see this way!"

Geissler nodded.

"And thanks for all you did that time--in Trondhjem," said Inger all by herself.

And Isak nodded at that, and said: "Ay, 'tis two of us owe you thanks for that."

But Geissler--it was not his way to be all feelings and sentiments; he said: "Yes, I'm just
going across to Sweden."

For all their trouble of mind over the drought, Sellanraa's folk were glad to see Geissler
again; they gave him the best they had, and were heartily glad to do what they could for him
after all he had done.

Geissler himself had no troubles that could be seen; he grew talkative at once, looked out
over the fields and nodded. He carried himself upright as ever, and looked as if he had several
hundreds of Daler in his pockets. It livened them up and brightened everything to have him
there; not that he made any boisterous fun, but a lively talker, that he was.

"Fine place, Sellanraa, splendid place," he said. "And now there's others coming up one after
another, since you've started, Isak. I counted five myself. Are there any more?"

"Seven in all. There's two that can't be seen from the road."

"Seven holdings; say fifty souls. Why, it'll be a densely populated neighbourhood before long.
And you've a school already, so I hear?"

"Ay, we have."

"There--what did I say? A school all to yourselves, down by Brede's place, being more in the
middle. Fancy Brede as a farmer in the wilds!" and Geissler laughed at the thought. "Ay, I've
heard all about you, Isak; you're the best man here. And I'm glad of it. Sawmill, too, you've got?"

"Ay, such as it is. But it serves me well enough. And I've sawed a bit now and again for them
down below."

"Bravo! That's the way!"

"I'd be glad to hear what you think of it, Lensmand, if so be you'd care to look at that sawmill
for yourself."

Geissler nodded, with the air of an expert; yes, he would look at it, examine it thoroughly.
Then he asked: "You had two boys, hadn't you--what's become of the other? In town? Clerk in
an office? H'm," said Geissler. "But this one here looks a sturdy sort--what was your name, now?"

"Sivert."

"And the other one?"

"Eleseus."

"And he's in an engineer's office--what's he reckon to learn there? A starvation-business.
Much better have come to me," said Geissler.

"Ay," said Isak, for politeness' sake. He felt a sort of pity for Geissler at the moment. Oh,
that good man did not look as if he could afford to keep clerks; had to work hard enough by
himself, belike. That jacket--it was worn to fringes at the wrists.

"Won't you have some dry hose to put on?" said Inger, and brought out a pair of her own. They
were from her best days; fine and thin, with a border.

"No, thanks," said Geissler shortly, though he must have been wet through.--"Much better have
come to me," he said again, speaking of Eleseus. "I want him badly." He took a small silver
tobacco box from his pocket and sat playing with it in his fingers. It was perhaps the only
thing of value left him now.

But Geissler was restless, changing from one thing to another. He slipped the thing back into
his pocket again and started a new theme. "But--what's that? Why, the meadow that's all grey.
I thought it was the shadow. The ground is simply parched. Come along with me, Sivert."

He rose from the table suddenly, thinking no more of food, turned in the doorway to say "Thank
you" to Inger for the meal, and disappeared, Sivert following.

They went across to the river, Geissler peering keenly about all the time. "Here!" he cried,
and stopped. And then he explained: "Where's the sense of letting your land dry up to nothing
when you've a river there big enough to drown it in a minute? We'll have, that meadow green
by tomorrow!"

Sivert, all astonishment, said "Yes."

"Dig down obliquely from here, see?--on a slope. The ground's level; have to make some sort
of a channel. You've a sawmill there--I suppose you can find some long planks from somewhere?
Good! Run and fetch a pick and spade, and start here; I'll go back and mark out a proper line."

He ran up to the house again, his boots squelching, for they were wet through. He set Isak
to work making pipes, a whole lot of them, to be laid down where the ground could not well
be cut with ditches. Isak tried to object that the water might not get so far; the dry ground
would soak it up before it reached the parched fields. Geissler explained that it would take
some time; the earth must drink a little first, but then gradually the water would go on--"field
and meadow green by this time tomorrow."

"Ho!" said Isak, and fell to boxing up long planks as hard as he could.

Off hurries Geissler to Sivert once more: "That's right--keep at it--didn't I say he was a
sturdy sort? Follow these stakes, you understand, where I've marked out. If you come up against
heavy boulders, or rock, then turn aside and go round, but keep the level--the same depth;
you see what I mean?"

Then back to Isak again: "That's one finished--good! But we shall want more--half a dozen,
perhaps. Keep at it, Isak; you see, we'll have it all green by tomorrow--we've saved your crops!"
And Geissler sat down on the ground, slapped his knees with both hands and was delighted, chattered
away, thought in flashes of lightning. "Any pitch, any oakum, or anything about the place?
That's splendid--got everything. These things'll leak at the edges you see, to begin with,
but the wood'll swell after a while, and they'll be as taut as a bottle. Oakum and pitch--fancy
you having it too!--What? Built a boat, you say? Where is the boat? Up in the lake? Good! I
must have a look at that too."

Oh, Geissler was all promises. Light come, light go--and he seemed more giving to fussing about
than before. He worked at things by fits and starts, but at a furious rate when he did work.
There was a certain superiority about him after all. True, he exaggerated a bit--it was impossible,
of course, to get all green by this time tomorrow, as he had said, but for all that, Geissler
was a sharp fellow, quick to see and take a decision; ay, a strange man was Geissler. And it
was he and no other that saved the crops that year at Sellanraa.

"How many have you got done? Not enough. The more wood you can lay, the quicker it'll flow.
Make them twenty feet long or twenty-five, if you can. Any planks that length on the place?
Good; fetch them along--you'll find it'll pay you at harvest-time!"

Restless again--up and off to Sivert once more. "That's the way, Sivert man; getting on finely.
Your father's turning out culverts like a poet, there'll be more than I ever thought. Run across
and get some now, and we'll make a start."

All that afternoon was one hurrying spell; Sivert had never seen such a furious piece of work;
he was not accustomed to see things done at that pace. They hardly gave themselves time to
eat. But the water was flowing already! Here and there they had to dig deeper, a culvert had
to be raised or lowered, but it flowed. The three men were at it till late that night, touching
up their work, and keenly on the look out for any fault. But when the water began to trickle
out over the driest spots, there was joy and delight at Sellanraa. "I forgot to bring my watch,"
said Geissler. "What's the time, I wonder? Ay, she'll be green by this time tomorrow!" said he.

Sivert got up in the middle of the night to see how things were going, and found his father
out already on the same errand. Oh, but it was a thrilling time--a day of great events!

But next day, Geissler stayed in bed till nearly noon, worn out now that the fit had passed.
He did not trouble to go up and look at the boat on the lake; and but for what he had said
the day before, he would never have bothered to look at the sawmill. Even the irrigation works
interested him less than at first--and when he saw that neither field nor meadow had turned
green in the course of the night, he lost heart, never thinking of how the water flowed, and
flowed all the time, and spread out farther and farther over the ground. He backed down a little,
and said now: "It may take time--you won't see any change perhaps before tomorrow again. But
it'll be all right, never fear."

Later in the day Brede Olsen came lounging in; he had brought some samples of rock he wanted
Geissler to see. "And something out of the common, this time, to my mind," said Brede.

Geissler would not look at the things. "That the way you manage a farm," he asked scornfully,
"pottering about up in the hills looking for a fortune?"

Brede apparently did not fancy being taken to task now by his former chief; he answered sharply,
without any form of respect, treating the ex-Lensmand as an equal: "If you think I care what
you say ..."

"You've no more sense than you had before," said Geissler. "Fooling away your time."

"What about yourself?" said Brede. "What about you, I'd like to know? You've got a mine of
your own up here, and what have you done with it? Huh! Lies there doing nothing. Ay, you're
the sort to have a mine, aren't you? He he!"

"Get out of this," said Geissler. And Brede did not stay long, but shouldered his load of samples
and went down to his own menage, without saying good-bye.

Geissler sat down and began to look over some papers with a thoughtful air. He seemed to have
caught a touch of the fever himself, and wanted now to look over that business of the copper
mine, the contract, the analyses. It was fine ore, almost pure copper; he must do something
with it, and not let everything slide.

"What I really came up for was to get the whole thing settled," he said to Isak. "I've been
thinking of making a start here, and that very soon. Get a lot of men to work, and run the
thing properly. What do you think?"

Isak felt sorry for the man, and would not say anything against it.

"It's a matter that concerns you as well, you know. There'll be a lot of bother, of course;
a lot of men about the place, and a bit rowdy at times, perhaps. And blasting up in the hills--I
don't know how you'll like that. On the other hand, there'll be more life in the district where
we begin, and you'll have a good market close at hand for farm produce and that sort of thing.
Fix your own price, too."

"Ay," said Isak.

"Besides your share in the mine--you'll get a high percentage of earnings, you know. Big money,
Isak."

Said Isak: "You've paid me fairly already, and more than enough...."

Next morning Geissler left, hurrying off eastward, over toward Sweden. "No, thanks," he said
shortly, when Isak offered to go with him. It was almost painful to see him start off in that
poor fashion, on foot and all alone. Inger had put up a fine parcel of food for him to take,
all as nice as she could make it, and made some wafers specially to put in. Even that was not
enough; she would have given him a can of cream and a whole lot of eggs, but he wouldn't carry
them, and Inger was disappointed.

Geissler himself must have found it hard to leave Sellanraa without paying as he generally
did for his keep; so he pretended that he had paid; made as if he had laid down a big note
in payment, and said to little Leopoldine: "Here, child, here's something for you as well."
And with that he gave her the silver box, his tobacco box. "You can rinse it out and use it
to keep pins and things in," he said. "It's not the sort of thing for a present really. If
I were at home I could have found her something else; I've a heap of things...."

But Geissler's waterwork remained after Geissler had gone; there it was, working wonders day
and night, week after week; the fields turned green, the potatoes ceased to flower, the corn
shot up....

The settlers from the holdings farther down began to come up, all anxious to see the marvel
for themselves. Axel Ström,--the neighbour from Maaneland, the man who had no wife, and no
woman to help him, but managed for himself,--he came too. He was in a good humour that day;
he told them how he had just got a promise of a girl to help through the summer--and that was
a weight off his mind. He did not say who the girl was, and Isak did not ask, but it was Brede's
girl Barbro who was to come. It would cost the price of a telegram to Bergen to fetch her;
but Axel paid the money, though he was not one of your extravagant sort, but rather something
of a miser.

It was the waterwork business that had enticed him up today; he had looked it over from one
end to the other, and was highly interested. There was no big river on his land, but he had
a bit of a stream; he had no planks, either, to make culverts with, but he would dig his channels
in the earth; it could be done. Up to now, things were not absolutely at their worst on his
land, which lay lower down the slopes; but if the drought continued, he, too, would have to
irrigate. When he had seen what he wanted, he took his leave and went back at once. No, he
would not come in, hadn't the time; he was going to start ditching that same evening. And off
he went.

This was something different from Brede's way.

Oh, Brede, he could run about the moorland farms now telling news: miraculous waterworks at
Sellanraa! "It doesn't pay to work your soil overmuch," he had said. "Look at Isak up there;
he's dug and dug about so long that at last he's had to water the whole ground."

Isak was patient, but he wished many a time that he could get rid of the fellow, hanging about
Sellanraa with his boastful ways. Brede put it all down to the telegraph; as long as he was
a public official, it was his duty to keep the line in order. But the telegraph company had
already had occasion several times to reprimand him for neglect, and had again offered the
post to Isak. No, it was not the telegraph that was in Brede's mind all the time, but the ore
up in the hills; it was his one idea now, a mania.

He took to dropping in often now at Sellanraa, confident that he had found the treasure; he
would nod his head and say: "I can't tell you all about it yet, but I don't mind saying I've
struck something remarkable this time." Wasting hours and energy all for nothing. And when
he came back in the evening to his little house, he would fling down a little sack of samples
on the floor, and puff and blow after his day's work, as if no man could have toiled harder
for his daily bread. He grew a few potatoes on sour, peaty soil, and cut the tufts of grass
that grew by themselves on the ground about the house--that was Brede's farming. He was never
made for a farmer, and there could be but one end to it all. His turf roof was falling to pieces
already, and the steps to the kitchen were rotten with damp; a grindstone lay on the ground,
and the cart was still left uncovered in the open.

Brede was fortunate perhaps in that such little matters never troubled him. When the children
rolled his grindstone about for play, he was kind and indulgent, and would even help them to
roll it himself. An easy-going, idle nature, never serious, but also never down-hearted, a
weak, irresponsible character; but he managed to find food, such as it was, and kept himself
and his alive from day to day; managed to keep them somehow. But it was not to be expected
that the storekeeper could go on feeding Brede and his family for ever; he had said so more
than once to Brede himself, and he said it now in earnest. Brede admitted he was right, and
promised to turn over a new leaf--he would sell his place, and very likely make a good thing
out of it--and pay what he owed at the store!

Oh, but Brede would sell out anyhow, even at a loss; what was the good of a farm for him? He
was home-sick for the village again, the easy gossiping life there, and the little shop--it
suited him better than settling down here to work, and trying to forget the world outside.
Could he ever forget the Christmas trees and parties, or the national feastings on Constitution
Day, or the bazaars held in the meeting-rooms? He loved to talk with his kind, to exchange
news and views, but who was there to talk with here? Inger up at Sellanraa had seemed to be
one of his sort for a while, but then she had changed--there was no getting a word out of her
now. And besides, she had been in prison; and for a man in his position--no, it would never do. Shrinkage is the same fearful and vengeful greet
the inmates with their bosses.

The deal with the Arabs had agreed to ship Morenito of the Moors of Morocco, counting some of
their raids along the coasts of Africa. In the morning, when he washed the air free, naked from
the waist up, producing deep admiration the seams and scars that studded his body, memories,
according to him, heroic battles by sea and land against the tyranny of custom. Another reason
was the saberle respect of a large knife holder although the records were the crew of the ship
in dangerous people; knife no one had seen but often mentioned in his bravado. Maltrana, knowledgeable
the customs of the prison, we imagined what the place could keep the bully indeclarable this weapon,
which was like the scepter of his menacing majesty.

- Sit for a poquiyo, Don Isidro, and rest ... You, take a seat cabayero
ar ... I was these guys proposing a negosio, a rich haserse safe mode.

Maltrana from his canvas chair, was huddled around, his jaw between hands, all admirers of Morenito,
like a tribe of warriors in Council.

The Malaga spoke with his mouth twisted, expelling the words of one of its corners, to make
the audience feel the greatness of his goodness as a teacher.

- These lads are a few pigeons, Don Isidro, ranging wildly America and the rich haser others ...
as in their homeland. But they came here, arrastraos, puppets! What for this you have embarcao
you?

... Look, Don Isidro: some think ar dir working field to sweat shirts;
other breeding quieen get a big house ... And I suggest to these people
Stork do a split: one started as it had endenantes.

There have not seen this ever before new thing. What paese? ...

And exposing his plan with enthusiasm.

- A started, and we took a richachón there and kidnap you, you family Peim a few million, with
amenasa that we will cut off the ears, give us the million Bueno handed out to us as brothers, and
six months before we Guert and rich. A started we would have much to do. Nah, you don Isidro,
er would be captain. (Here Maltrana greeted thanking, apologizing with a gesture of modesty.)
No, not us jaga er small.

I know Nah, you own what you Tié well as mu ... and believe that I understand these things. In addition,
tie talent pa too, and I am a man who respects the wisdom ... The Morenito, Antonio Diaz, a servior,
er would lieutenant, toos these lads already Bueno despabilarían with such directors. Huh? What
I paese? Is not it a verdaero negosio?

Isidro nodded with imperturbable gravity.

Yes, a good deal worth to be studied carefully and the operation of a new industry. Almost
have to ask for a patent, to prevent counterfeiting. And the gullible boys who listened to in silence
because Morenito were at sea, far from any possibility of action, but inwardly abhorred these
plans that were struggling with the concerns of his honesty, They looked hesitant to see a
Mr. and Mr. Isidro not shocked.

- Do you hear, Panolis? - Said the bully -. Look how a cabayero he knows is too Güena my idea is
... But if you fart pa kidneys get the money to a rich, are able to pa started to chase the
Indians. There are many, many! American attack railways and trams errands and even outside the
poblasiones, I I've seen many times in the sinematógrafos. And Buenos Aires is in America,
and there hasen Farta resolusión men who tell those chocolate-colored
gruel with feathers the cabesa: "Hey, it's over, no longer vex you
further to the meeting, because we do not feel like it."

And hunt them down like rabbits, and the government, agradesío, we pay both cabesa, and in
a few years we ca jasemos one with a little fortune to land golves pa. There will be a very
rich quick as with the kidnapping, but is argo argo, and it is always
better than gutting lumps er or serve chocolate in bed to the Lords.

Do not you paese, Don Isidro?

And Don Isidro approved again. An idea as good as the previous, also should be asked privilege,
that the government did not allow Indians kill more than the departure
of Mr. Antonio Moreno.

He admired the heroic records run through this man to get rich without
resorting to vulgarity of the ordinary work, reserved for other mortals.

And some remained Isidro time, listening to the plans of the adventurer who was lost to America
four centuries late.

Honesty in alarm timid listeners formulated comments.

- But there are prisons - said a -.

There are policemen.

- There will be more brave than Sevil and the police of our country - said the Morenito arrogantly
-. I know what that is ... Bah! I eat them!

- But the Indians will not spank as well - argued another. People should be brave ... savage
people.

- For those - said contemptuously bully - to those like me also.

He approached the group a new listener, greeting Maltrana, with a subtle smile, which had something
fun for the bully.

- Here's Don Juan - said Isidro -. This does not come into our game, not a man who serve for the
case.

- No sah, not fall - said the Morenito -. A Don Juan, in their tomes sacale not serve Cursed
thing pa ... Mu Güena person cabayero mu, but it will not win on his life two pesetas.

He was tall and lean meat, with long beards that despite his youth made him look venerable. Her voice
was sweet and unhurried gestures, in his words interpolating a laugh discrete, which was the
eternal support of their conversation.

According Maltrana this friend breathed optimism and confidence in life, spreading around his
person a happy environment. And yet, living in the deck, mixed with the herd immigrant, without other
considerations that granted him his traveling companions, captivated
by the sweetness of his character and the superiority of education.

Their costumes, old and frayed, were of good cut, were noticed in his person the traces of a more
prosperous. In his hands was as fine I remember an old familiar ring, saved from the constraints
of poverty.

The Curious Maltrana knew something of his life. Juan Castillo was an agronomist who had tried panllevar
on inherited land from their parents doing all the advances learned in a large school of Belgium
poet dreams of setting made with the momentum of a will enthusiastic and credulous. Usury
had provided a small capital for company, and after several years struggling with the routine
of the peasants, to accustom live in peace with the machines and
remove the veins deep underground liquid to scatter in irrigation
networks, when the earth began to respond to these efforts with its
first products, the creditors had fallen on him, running with glacial
ferocity.

- I know the procedure - had said Maltrana to hear first -.

Is the same cannibal tribes. They gave you food, they left undisturbed for to cast cavities, and when
it was ready, bam! the slaughter and cannibal feast.

Fleeing the destruction, loss of inheritance from their parents, lost
credit, debt dishonored to giving its creditors a criminal nature,
all for wanting to innovate under their studies a stationary agriculture
almost equal to that of the early days of mankind.

And in his flight had looked to the south, and all who sailed in
that steel shell, sensing ocean beyond the circle a land renewed daily
stock refurbished, where lives are shattered as well as contracted
virginal buds to start a new course of evolution.

Hope also had grazed his flapping illusory. Most celebrated this ruin that had uprooted from
the fatherland. Who knew what was coming across the ocean? ...

Morenito leaving the group, moved toward the bow Maltrana and Castillo.

A plaintive voice made them stop.

- Don Isidro! ... Good afternoon, Don Isidro and the company!

A man sitting on the floor, leaning against the railing, his face pale advanced the folds of a
blanket.

- Is that you, sick? - Said Maltrana -.

How's the mood?

With sorrowful voice murmured a complaint against endless sea. Since its entry into the vessel,
health seemed to have fled his body. Others sang at all hours, as if the salty air and the
vast blue should give them new strength, excite your appetite. He had embarked feeling strong,
and suddenly all his energy leaving him.

- I am very ill, Don Isidro. Yesterday I could still only cover up and today have had some friends
push me upstairs. I must be white as a sheet, do you, sir ... I have
no strength to walk, or desire to eat.

This is not going ... Others complain of heat; say that more and
more bites the sun, and I tremble if I remove the blanket ... And
what gives me more Rabies is that the medical officer Carmelo and
others look at me as if they had been deceived, and say that if they
know this board will not let me because back in Buenos Aires do not
want sick ... But sir, if I embarked healthy and good!, If this wretched
sea that I test!

...

Believing Maltrana see the same gesture of doubt the employees of the ship, he hastened to add:

-
I have been an oak, Don Isidro. Rheumatism just as the doctor said my people from sleeping in the
open field many nights. But out of this ... nothing. I swear my name: Pachín Muiños. And now, suddenly,
I am actually a rag, and I drown, sir, legs can not have me and I
lack the strength to go from one corner to another.

What I have wanted out of here! ... I'm sure I'll just jump to another land, feel again strong
as in my town ... Say, sir, when we arrived in Buenos Aires?

Eagerly asked the question, was incorporated to look beyond the gunwale. To spread their seen
by the immensity, expect to find on the horizon the black profile
of the coveted land.

- Take two days? - He asked.

- Plus, a little
more - Maltrana said softly to deceive his impatience.

- How many
more? - Continued tenaciously ill.

And guess Maltrana evasive words
were still many days of travel, Muiños poor relapsed into despair
... Buenos Aires!

Wanted to get as soon as possible at the end of the trip, and repeated
the name of the city, like I found in him a miraculous power equal
to the ancient cabalistic words.

Isidro after console with misleading statements, ensuring that within a week would land slippage
back to Castillo to the departure gate.

- Hope! - Said sadly -. The poor are very sick, it lacks the strength to be feet, and moves, however,
from one hemisphere to another in search of health and money.

What of dreams are in the shell with all of us! ...

- And if he were alone - said Castillo -. But he accompanied his wife and three children.

The illusion of health had been uprooted from their village. Back in Galicia could not work a
full week without the effort would attract the disease. The image of America had gone through his
misery like a glow of hope. In the land of fortune where everyone is transformed, he would another
man. And spare a few months of rest and slack, because of having sold their huts and cows, Muiños
entered the ship with a deceptive appearance of healthy man. The atmosphere of the sea and
life on board had been fatal for him every day after marking a decline of his health.

- What he thinks rheumatism - Castillo said - is, as a ship's doctor,
a failure heart, which begins to unravel with alarming bronchitis.

To know what you stop! The wife and children, accustomed to their illness, do not look at
him. She gossip with other women, and boys play or eagerly await
the time of the ranch.

Y Muiños poor when drowning in the steerage, the deck wrapped up in his coat to lie in the
sun, and asked how many days left to get where we are still at the
beginning Travel ... Needless to say the truth.

His dream, which has been concentrated in Buenos Aires, we to forget the time and distance.
Cree deceive you when you say that there are still many days. When asked excitedly Tenerife spot
if we were in Buenos Aires.

Morning, see from afar the islands of Cape Verde, will believe that
we have ... Unhappy!

All that we are on the ship is the most thought in Buenos Aires, and it could happen that would
the only one who came to see him.

Maltrana Castillo said goodbye at the gate dividing class inviolable border States that started in
two different floating microcosm.

Up on the promenade deck, Fernando found next to one of the living
room windows that gave birth to the inner shelf occupied by the piano.

Isidro wanted to talk, but his friend put his finger to his lips imposing silence. Miró then
out the window and saw a woman sitting at the piano. Reached his ears at the same time muted
music and the whisper of a singing softly.

- It's Tristan - Ojeda softly whispered in his ear -. The desperate cry of Iseo.

The two remained silent on both sides of the window, listening to the songs coming with distances
inside a dream.

Maltrana less sensitive to musical emotion, examined back to this
woman, watch your neck white as ivory slightly sombrecida old.

The helmet of hair near the roots had a golden tender, who was coloring it to take on the
reddish surface of copper fregoteado. His neck was leaning front with a slender anemic, a fragility
that marked the tendons under the skin and arteries dilated by the faint emission of the voice.

Suddenly,
his face became invisible to them, as if she had noticed his presence. Saw some eyes whose pupils
were dilated ash color by surprise face of pale green, somewhat emaciated,
which instantly colored blush access.

She looked frightened that someone might listen.

With a gesture of shyness and contrariness closed the instrument, stood up and walked to the door of
the room to escape the two bothersome.

Ojeda followed with his eyes. She was tall, thin and sickly was masked in part tough at the skeleton.
Marked his bony hips firmly under a clear lack of denim. The funny hair piled with neglect, little
white shoes worn, modest blouse homemade, total lack of jewelry,
gave her figure an aspect of poverty of cheerfully, uncertainty borne
with resignation bohemia.

- You know that everybody here - asked
Ojeda -: Who is it?

- For some time now would you know if I was allowed
to speak ... Is the wife of director Orchestra operetta company: a
pimply-faced blonde, who spends day and night bocks taking coffee
with their troop.

Good strainer, there are times that felt rounds pile on the table as a column ... And when
they drink beer, whiskey or whatever supports fall. No other occupation in the vessel tipple.

- It's an interesting woman - muttered Ojeda -. And so shy! ...

Waited all afternoon to the salon has been deserted. Families descended to their cabins nap;
other passengers were sleeping in chairs along the promenade, only remained some in the winter
garden. Then, almost on tiptoe, went to the piano, and just put your fingers on the keyboard,
seemed to forget her shyness, isolation from outside world lazy eye and no light, as if his
gaze focused inward and her singing was a weak escape, a far cry from memories of other music
that sounded in it.

To see Fernando in the piano, had been curious about his music.

Perhaps a sweet and sentimental romance of operetta! ... And yet he lasted the surprise I had
experienced to hear the great words of pain Iseo.

- Must have a great voice, do not you think so, Isidro? ... Let me be your friend ... You must
know.

Maltrana apologized, somewhat disappointed that at this time not possible to boast a friend.
He had hardly noticed her: SHP! Women of that drunken director orchestra! ... Was somewhat surly,
people fleeing, only it was with the other ladies company. He lived for his son, a toddler with a huge
head, always clinging to his hand. A Greetings Maltrana always answered with a nod and a manifest
desire to flee. Moreover, as women are not worth much: it looked sick. The first time you
set it was by the jeers of a few girls elegant greenish pallor commented: "There is that of
the operetta. He has ruptured gall and has stirred the whole body. "

- But it does not matter, Ojeda, because the lady was interested in what Wagner singing, I introduce
it. Know something husband, we drank together. He called Hans ... Hans Eichelberger, that is,
the teacher Hans. And she ... you wait, her name is Mina.

Now remember that husband called that, and he told me, is a diminutive of Wilhelmina. The teacher speaks
some Spanish: has gone by Argentina and Chile in other musical forays. I think it very little.

The two friends moved to the stern, stopping at the railing near the coffee on the cover third
class. Sailors had raised a part of the awning and looked below the boiling of the northern
migration, hairy people who despite the heat retained their fur coats. Sounded the twang of an accordion
with the hurried pace of the dance Russian. A girl with short skirt, boots and green scarf polonaises,
on whose tip peeked a lock of red hair, was spinning to the beat of the music. Around her, a tall
boy purple shirt danced on his knees or held in balance with the legs portentous nearly horizontal
and the buttocks near the ground. The shouting and clapping from the other Russian accompanied
these crazy dance agility of gymnastics.

Polish Jews and galitzianos, wrapped greatcoat in their priestly character, watched the show
scratching their beards lingering, contracting the thickets of eyebrows almost joined.

- The people who come here! - Said Fernando - And to think that is the name of an unknown city
the vague prestige of a distant land that brought us together diverse people from birth! ...

-
Twenty-eight people, according to Carmelo the police station, we have been on the vessel and
same applies to other ocean liners. Is not it true, Ojeda, this seems to progress in mass of
the peoples of Europe when the Crusaders? ... Recently, I remembered
me down, the crowds who followed Peter the Hermit.

Marched sick, faint from hunger, and every time I sighted a small town burst into shouts of joy:
"Jerusalem! It Jerusalem! ". And they were still at the center of Europe: in Germany or Hungary.
Down in the bow, you have an heir of the heroes of hope. Seriously ill will, it is possible
from reaching the end of the journey, and every time we see an island, a coast, is galvanized
and asked if Buenos Aires.

- Humanity is illusion, Maltrana.

We need to put our hope away, on land unknown, as the distance removes doubt and gives certainty
to the most inverisímil. For Europeans, the wonderland was Baghdad of the Arabian Nights and
a night, whereas in my travels the East, I have seen Jews and Muslims assume treasures and
ancient magic in Toledo.

When the poets of the South imagine something wonderful, place the stage on the strengths of
Rhine or the Scandinavian fjords. At Dream Castle Monsalvat Wagner puts mansion the Holy Grail in
the Spanish Pyrenees and gives a Moorish palace in the charming Klingsor. The our environment is
too real for us to grow in our dreams.

- Yes, Fernando. But human hope, that in the past was purely mystical and That might look to the
East, is now positive, pins its hopes on the material welfare and heads to the West. We all
want to be rich, we need to be, and this hope communicated to distant lands prestige of illusion.
Centuries ago, people push went to Peru, yesterday dreamed of humanity with the treasures of California,
and there were at mass men's adventure today begins to mingle with
the grandeur of the United States radiation arising from a new city-hope:
Buenos Aires.

Tomorrow - interrupted Ojeda - pilgrims of wealth, twisting his way, will be poured the islands
of Oceania, and perhaps the future of Jerusalem will be in thousands of years somewhere in the
Pacific, where at this time colean sharks and swell and deflate the solitary waves.

The human desire to put the city of hope over any land taken out of fund waters by a convulsion
of the planet, maybe on the infusoria madreporic atolls I was petrified
at that time with slow and patient work multimillenary ... Never missing
on the globe a place that would appeal to the restless and energetic
men, unhappy with their destination, eager to change their position.

-
It will become bigger this pilgrimage - said Maltrana -.

We feel the urgent need of money as not felt our grandparents, and those who come after the
experience more momentum than us. I want to be rich, I have no shame in confessing it, is all that worries
me. Need to know what you mean by wealth, and get going ... may. And you, Fernando? ...

He smiled slightly. I also wanted to be rich, and had uprooted craving old world, releasing it
on full adventure, as the miserable who crowded in Plaice of emigration. I needed a happy fortune to be
believed. And yet ... Who knows, wealth is not happiness, it never has been, at best, be accepted
as a means to affirm ... Perhaps even this was true. Wagner remembered the legend Ring of the
Nibelung, the miracle of the Rhine gold, symbol of world power. Who had was lord of the universe,
the absolute master of all riches, but to conquer it had than to
curse the love, give it up forever.

- And love, Maltrana, and other
feelings, are worth more than treasure. I am poor and walked in search
of money because I see in it a guarantee of safety and rest to deal
peacefully in other businesses to my taste. But if someone make me
see that the wealth should pay with the renunciation of love, I swear
I jumped to the ground at the first port to return to Europe.

Isidro
shrugged dismissively. Fantasy Artist! Musings of a poet! What had
to see the love and wealth to put them together, as antithetical and
unmistakable? ... He wanted to be rich to be, to know the sweetness
of the most irresistible of powers proud and selfish satisfactions
provided by the so-called "power of domination." And if to do so had
to give up the pleasant follies of love and other feelings the world
looks with a traditional respect, I was soon to slaughter. Or again: "'Tis more than any man can stand." Or again:
"Now, you're not to work any more; come in and have dinner--I've made some wafers for you!"
And to please him, she said: "I should just like to know, now, what you've got in your mind
with all that wood, and what you're going to build, now, next?"

"Why, I can't say as yet," said Isak, making a mystery of it.

Ay, just as in the old days. And after the child was born--and it was a little girl--a great
big girl, fine-looking and sturdy and sound--after that, Isak must have been a stone and a
miserable creature if he had not thanked God. But what was he going to build? It would be more
news for Oline to go gadding about with--a new building again at Sellanraa. A new wing of the
house--a new house it was to be. And there were so many now at Sellanraa--they had a servant-girl;
and Eleseus, he was coming home; and a brand-new little girl-child of their own, just come--the
old house would be just an extra room now, nothing more.

And, of course, he had to tell Inger about it one day; she was so curious to know, and though
maybe Inger knew it all beforehand, from Sivert,--they two were often whispering together,--she
was all surprised as any one could be, and let her arms fall, and said: "'Tis all your nonsense--you
don't mean it?"

And Isak, brimming over with greatness inside, he answered her: "Why, with you bringing I don't
know how many more children on the place, 'tis the least I can do, it seems."

The two menfolk were out now every day getting stone for the walls of the new house. They worked
their utmost together each in his own way: the one young, and with his young body firmly set,
quick to see his way, to mark out the stones that would suit; the other ageing--tough, with
long arms, and a mighty weight to bear down on a crowbar. When they had managed some specially
difficult feat, they would hold a breathing-space, and talk together in a curious, reserved
fashion of their own.

"Brede, he talks of selling out," said the father.

"Ay," said the son. "Wonder what he'll be asking for the place?"

"Ay, I wonder."

"You've not heard anything?"

"No."

"I've heard two hundred."

The father thought for a while, and said: "What d'you think, 'll this be a good stone?"

"All depends if we can get this shell off him," said Sivert, and was on his feet in a moment,
giving the setting-hammer to his father, and taking the sledge himself. He grew red and hot,
stood up to his full height and let the sledge-hammer fall; rose again and let it fall; twenty
strokes alike--twenty thunder-strokes. He spared neither tool nor strength; it was heavy work;
his shirt rucked up from his trousers at the waist, leaving him bare in front; he lifted on
his toes each time to give the sledge a better swing. Twenty strokes.

"Now! Let's look!" cried his father.

The son stops, and asks: "Marked him any?"

And they lay down together to look at the stone; look at the beast, the devil of a thing; no,
not marked any as yet.

"I've a mind to try with the sledge alone," said the father, and stood up. Still harder work
this, sheer force alone, the hammer grew hot, the steel crushed, the pen grew blunt.

"She'll be slipping the head," he said, and stopped. "And I'm no hand at this any more," he said.

Oh, but he never meant it; it was not his thought, that he was no hand at the work any more!

This father, this barge of a man, simple, full of patience and goodness, he would let his son
strike the last few blows and cleave the stone. And there it lay, split in two.

"Ay, you've the trick of it," said the father. "H'm, yes ... Breidablik ... might make something
but of that place."

"Ay, should think so," said the son.

"Only the land was fairly ditched and turned."

"The house'd have to be done up."

"Ay, that of course. Place all done up--'twould mean a lot of work at first, but ... What I
was going to say, d'you know if your mother was going to church come Sunday?"

"Ay, she said something like it."

"Ho!... H'm. Keep your eyes open now and look out for a good big door-slab for the new house.
You haven't seen a bit would do?"

"No," said Sivert.

And they fell to work again.

A couple of days later both agreed they had enough stone now for the walls. It was Friday evening;
they sat taking a breathing-space, and talking together the while.

"H'm--what d'you say?" said the father. "Should we think it over, maybe, about Breidablik?"

"How d'you mean?" asked the son. "What to do with it?"

"Why, I don't know. There's the school there, and it's midway down this tract now."

"And what then?" asked the son. "I don't know what we'd do with it, though; it's not worth
much as it is."

"That's what you've been thinking of?"

"No, not that way.... Unless Eleseus he'd like to have the place to work on."

"Eleseus? Well, no, I don't know--"

Long pause, the two men thinking hard. The father begins gathering tools together, packing
up to go home.

"Ay, unless ..." said Sivert. "You might ask him what he says."

The father made an end of the matter thus: "Well, there's another day, and we haven't found
that door-slab yet, either."

Next day was Saturday, and they had to be off early to get across the hills with the child.
Jensine, the servant-girl, was to go with them; that was one godmother, the rest they would
have to find from among Inger's folk on the other side.

Inger looked nice; she had made herself a dainty cotton dress, with white at the neck and wrists.
The child was all in white, with a new blue silk ribbon drawn through the lower edge of its
dress; but then she was a wonder of a child, to be sure, that could smile and chatter already,
and lay and listened when the clock struck on the wall. Her father had chosen her name. It
was his right; he was determined to have his say--only trust to him! He had hesitated between
Jacobine and Rebecca, as being both sort of related to Isak; and at last he went to Inger and
asked timidly: "What d'you think, now, of Rebecca?"

"Why, yes," said Inger.

And when Isak heard that, he grew suddenly independent and master in his own house. "If she's
to have a name at all," he said sharply, "it shall be Rebecca! I'll see to that."

And of course he was going with the party to church, partly to carry, and partly for propriety's
sake. It would never do to let Rebecca go to be christened without a decent following! Isak
trimmed his beard and put on a red shirt, as in his younger days; it was in the worst of the
hot weather, but he had a nice new winter suit, that looked well on him, and he wore it. But
for all that, Isak was not the man to make a duty of finery and show; as now, for instance,
he put on a pair of fabulously heavy boots for the march.

Sivert and Leopoldine stayed behind to look after the place.

Then they rowed in a boat across the lake, and that was a deal easier than before, when they
had had to walk round all the way. But half-way across, as Inger unfastened her dress to nurse
the child, Isak noticed something bright hung in a string round her neck; whatever it might
be. And in the church he noticed that she wore that gold ring on her finger. Oh, Inger--it
had been too much for her after all!

Chapter XVII

Eleseus came home.

He had been away now for some years, and had grown taller than his father, with long white
hands and a little dark growth on his upper lip. He did not give himself airs, but seemed anxious
to appear natural and kindly; his mother, was surprised and pleased. He shared the small bedroom
with Sivert; the two brothers got on well together, and were constantly playing tricks on each
other by way of amusement. But, naturally, Eleseus had to take his share of the work in building
the house; and tired and miserable it made him, all unused as he was to bodily fatigue of any
kind. It was worse still when Sivert had to go off and leave it all to the other two; Eleseus
then was almost more of a hindrance than a help.

And where had Sivert gone off to? Why, 'twas Oline had come over the hills one day with word
from Uncle Sivert that he was dying; and, of course, young Sivert had to go. A nice state of
things all at once--it couldn't have happened worse than to have Sivert running off just now.
But there was no help for it.

Said Oline: "I'd no time to go running errands, and that's the truth; but for all that ...
I've taken a fancy to the children here, all of them, and little Sivert, and if as I could
help him to his legacy...."

"But was Uncle Sivert very bad, then?"

"Bad? Heaven bless us, he's falling away day by day."

"Was he in bed, then?"

"In bed? How can you talk so light and flighty of death before God's Judgment-seat? Nay, he'll
neither hop nor run again in this world, will your Uncle Sivert."

All this seemed to mean that Uncle Sivert had not long to live, and Inger insisted that little
Sivert should set off at once.

But Uncle Sivert, incorrigible old knave, was not on his death-bed; was not even confined to
bed at all. When young Sivert came, he found the little place in terrible muddle and disorder;
they had not finished the spring season's work properly yet--had not even carted out all the
winter manure; but as for approaching death, there was no sign of it that he could see. Uncle
Sivert was an old man now, over seventy; he was something of an invalid, and pottered about
half-dressed in the house, and often kept his bed for a time. He needed help on the place in
many ways, as, for instance, with the herring nets that hung rotting in the sheds. Oh, but
for all that he was by no means at his last gasp; he could still eat sour fish and smoke his pipe.

When Sivert had been there half an hour and seen how things were, he was for going back home again.

"Home?" said the old man.

"We're building a house, and father's none to help him properly."

"Ho!" said his uncle. "Isn't Eleseus come home, then?"

"Ay, but he's not used to the work."

"Then why did you come at all?"

Sivert told him about Oline and her message, how she had said that Uncle Sivert was on the
point of death.

"Point of death?" cried the old man. "Said I was on the point of death, did she? A cursed old
fool!"

"Ha ha ha!" said Sivert.

The old man looked sternly at him. "Eh? Laugh at a dying man, do you, and you called after
me and all!"

But Sivert was too young to put on a graveyard face for that; he had never cared much for his
uncle. And now he wanted to get back home again.

"Ho, so you thought so, too?" said the old man again. "Thought I was at my last gasp, and that
fetched you, did it?"

"'Twas Oline said so," answered Sivert.

His uncle was silent for a while, then spoke again: "Look you here. If you'll mend that net
of mine and put it right, I'll show you something."

"H'm," said Sivert. "What is it?"

"Well, never you mind," said the old man sullenly, and went to bed again.

It was going to be a long business, evidently. Sivert writhed uncomfortably. He went out and
took a look round the place; everything was shamefully neglected and uncared for; it was hopeless
to begin work here. When he came in after a while, his uncle was sitting up, warming himself
at the stove.

"See that?" He pointed to an oak chest on the floor at his feet. It was his money chest. As
a matter of fact, it was a lined case made to hold bottles, such as visiting justices and other
great folk used to carry with them when travelling about the country in the old days, but there
were no bottles in it now; the old man had used it for his documents and papers as district
treasurer; he kept his accounts and his money in it now. The story ran that it was full of
uncounted riches; the village folk would shake their heads and say: "Ah! if I'd only as much
as lies in old Sivert his chest!"

Uncle Sivert took out a paper from the box and said solemnly: "You can read writing, I suppose?"

Little Sivert was not by any means a great hand at that, it is true, but he made out so much
as told him he was to inherit all that his uncle might leave at his death.

"There," said the old man. "And now you can do as you please." And he laid the paper back in
the chest.

Sivert was not greatly impressed; after all, the paper told him no more than he had known before;
ever since he was a child he had heard say that he was to have what Uncle Sivert left one day.
A sight of the treasure would be another matter.

"There's some fine things in that chest, I doubt," said he.

"There's more than you think," said the old man shortly.

He was angry and disappointed with his nephew; he locked up the box and went to bed again.
There he lay, delivering jets of information. "I've been district treasurer and warden of the
public moneys in this village over thirty year; I've no need to beg and pray for a helping
hand from any man! Who told Oline, I'd like to know, that I was on my deathbed? I can send
three men, carriage and cart to fetch a doctor if I want one. Don't try your games with me,
young man! Can't even wait till I'm gone, it seems. I've shown you the document and you've
seen it, and it's there in the chest--that's all I've got to say. But if you go running off
and leave me now, you can just carry word to Eleseus and tell him to come. He's not named after
me and called by my earthly name--let him come."

But for all the threatening tone, Sivert only thought a moment, and said: "Ay, I'll tell Eleseus
to come."

Oline was still at Sellanraa when Sivert got back. She had found time to pay a visit lower
down, to Axel Ström and Barbro on their place, and came back full of mysteries and whisperings.
"That girl Barbro's filling out a deal of late--Lord knows what it may mean. But not a word
that I've said so! And here's Sivert back again? No need to ask what news, I suppose? Your
Uncle Sivert's passed away? Ay, well, an old man he was and an aged one, on the brink of the
grave. What--not dead? Well, well, we've much to be thankful for, and that's a solemn word!
Me talking nonsense, you say? Oh, if I'd never more to answer for! How was I to know your uncle
he was lying there a sham and a false pretender before the Lord? Not long to live, that's what
I said. And I'll hold by it, when the time comes, before the Throne. What's that you say? Well,
and wasn't he lying there his very self in his bed, and folding his hands on his breast and
saying 'twould soon be over?"

There was no arguing with Oline, she bewildered her adversaries with talk and cast them down.
When she learned that Uncle Sivert had sent for Eleseus, she grasped at that too, and made
her own advantage of it: "There you are, and see if I was talking nonsense. Here's old Sivert
calling up his kinsfolk and longing for a sight of his own flesh and blood; ay, he's nearing
his end! You can't refuse him, Eleseus; off with you at once this minute and see your uncle
while there's life in him. I'm going that way too, we'll go together."

Oline did not leave Sellanraa without taking Inger aside for more whisperings of Barbro. "Not
a word I've said--but I could see the signs of it! And now I suppose she'll be wife and all
on the farm there. Ay, there's some folk are born to great things, for all they may be small
as the sands of the sea in their beginnings. And who'd have ever thought it of that girl Barbro!
Axel, yes, never doubt but he's a toiling sort and getting on, and great fine lands and means
and all like you've got here--'tis more than we know of over on our side the hills, as you
know's a true word, Inger, being born and come of the place yourself. Barbro, she'd a trifle
of wool in a chest; 'twas naught but winter wool, and I wasn't asking and she never offered
me. We said but Goddag and Farvel, for all that I'd known her from she was a toddling child
all that time I was here at Sellanraa by reason of you being away and learning knowledge at
the Institute...."

"There's Rebecca crying," said Inger, breaking in on Oline. But she gave her a handful of wool.

Then a great thanksgiving speech from Oline: ay, wasn't it just as she had said to Barbro herself
of Inger, and how there was not her like to be found for giving to folk; ay, she'd give till
she was bare, and give her fingers to the bone, and never complain. Ay, go in and see to the
sweet angel, and never was there a child in the world so like her mother as Rebecca--no. Did
Inger remember how she'd said one day as she'd never have children again? Ah, now she could
see! No, better give ear to them as were grown old and had borne children of their own, for
who should fathom the Lord His ways, said Oline.

And with that she padded off after Eleseus up through the forest, shrunken with age, grey and
abject, and for ever nosing after things, imperishable. Going to old Sivert now, to let him
know how she, Oline, had managed to persuade Eleseus to come.

But Eleseus had needed no persuading, there was no difficulty there. For, look you, Eleseus
had turned out better, after all, than he'd begun; a decent lad in his way, kindly and easy-going
from a child, only nothing great in the way of bodily strength. It was not without reason he
had been unwilling to come home this time; he knew well enough that his mother had been in
prison for child-murder; he had never heard a word about it there in the town, but at home
in the village every one would remember. And it was not for nothing he had been living with
companions of another sort. He had grown to be more sensitive and finer feeling than ever before.
He knew that a fork was really just as necessary as a knife. As a man of business, he used
the terms of the new coinage, whereas, out in the wilds, men still counted money by the ancient
Daler. Ay, he was not unwilling to walk across the hills to other parts; here, at home, he
was constantly forced to keep down his own superiority. He tried his best to adapt himself
to the others, and he managed well; but it was always having to be on his guard. As, for instance,
when he had first come back to Sellanraa a couple of weeks ago, he had brought with him his
light spring overcoat, though it was midsummer; and when he hung it up on a nail, he might
just as well have turned it so as to show the silver plate inside with his initials, but he
didn't. And the same with his stick--his walking-stick. True, it was only an umbrella stick
really, that he had dismantled and taken the framework off; but here he had not used it as
he did in town, swinging it about--only carried it hidden against his thigh.

No, it was not surprising that Eleseus went across the hills. He was no good at building houses;
he was good at writing with letters, a thing not every one could do, but here at home there
was no one in all the place that set any store by the art of it save perhaps his mother. He
set off gaily through the woods, far ahead of Oline; he could wait for her farther up. He ran
like a calf; he hurried. Eleseus had in a way stolen off from the farm; he was afraid of being
seen. For, to tell the truth, he had taken with him both spring coat and walking-stick for
the journey. Over on the other side there might be a chance of seeing people, and being seen
himself; he might even be able to go to church. And so he sweated happily under the weight
of an unnecessary spring coat in the heat of the sun.

They did not miss him at the building, far from it. Isak had Sivert back again, and Sivert
was worth a host of his brother at that work; he could keep at it from morning to night. It
did not take them long to get the framework up; it was only three walls, as they were building
out from the other. And they had less trouble with the timber; they could cut their planks
at the sawmill, which gave them the outside pieces for roofing at the same time. And one fine
day there was the house all finished, before their eyes, roofed, floored, and with the windows
in. They had no time for more than this between the seasons; the boarding and painting would
have to wait.

And now came Geissler with a great following across the hills from Sweden. And the men with
him rode on horseback with glossy-coated horses and yellow saddles; rich travellers they must
be no doubt; stout, heavy men; the horses bowed under their weight. And among all these great
personages came Geissler on foot. Four gentlemen and Geissler made up the party, and then there
were a couple of servants each leading a packhorse.

The riders dismounted outside the farm, and Geissler said: "Here's Isak--here's the Margrave
of the place himself. Goddag, Isak! I've come back again, you see, as I said I would."

Geissler was the same as ever. For all that he came on foot, his manner showed no consciousness
of inferiority to the rest; ay, his threadbare coat hung long and wretched-looking down over
his shrunken back, but he put on a grand enough air for all that. He even said: "We're going
up into the hills a bit, these gentlemen and myself--it'll do them good to get their weight
down a bit."

The gentlemen themselves were nice and pleasant enough; they smiled at Geissler's words, and
hoped Isak would excuse their coming rioting over his land like this. They had brought their
own provisions, and did not propose to eat him out of house and home, but they would be glad
of a roof over their heads for the night. Perhaps he could put them up in the new building there?

When they had rested a while, and Geissler had been inside with Inger and the children, the
whole party went up into the hills and stayed out till evening. Now and again in the course
of the afternoon, the folks at Sellanraa could hear an unusually heavy report from the distance,
and the train of them came down with new bags of samples. "Blue copper," they said, nodding
at the ore. They talked long and learnedly, and consulting a sort of map they had drawn; there
was an engineer among them, and a mining expert; one appeared to be a big landowner or manager
of works. They talked of aerial railways and cable traction. Geissler threw in a word here
and there, and each time as if advising them; they paid great attention to what he said.

"Who owns the land south of the lake?" one of them asked Isak.

"The State," answered Geissler quickly. He was wide awake and sharp, and held in his hand the
document Isak had once signed with his mark. "I told you before--the State," he said. "No need
to ask again. If you don't believe me, you can find out for yourself if you please."

Later in the evening, Geissler took Isak aside and said: "Look here, shall we sell that copper
mine?"

Said Isak: "Why, as to that, 'twas so that Lensmand bought it of me once, and paid for it."

"True," said Geissler. "I bought the ground. But then there was a provision that you were to
have a percentage of receipts from working or sale; are you willing to dispose of your share?"

This was more than Isak could understand, and Geissler had to explain. Isak could not work
a mine, being a farmer and a clearer of forest land; Geissler himself couldn't run a mine either.
Money, capital? Ho, as much as he wanted, never fear! But he hadn't the time, too many things
to do, always running about the country, attending to his property in the south, his property
in the north. And now Geissler was thinking of selling out to these Swedish gentlemen here;
they were relatives of his wife, all of them, and rich men. "Do you see what I mean?"

"I'll do it what way you please," said Isak.

A strange thing--this complete confidence seemed to comfort Geissler wonderfully in his threadbareness.
"Well, I'm not sure it's the best thing you could do," he said thoughtfully. Then suddenly
he was certain, and went on: "But if you'll give me a free hand to act on my discretion, I
can do better for you at any rate than you could by yourself."

"H'm," began Isak. "You've always been a good man to us all here...."

But Geissler frowned at that, and cut him short: "All right, then."

Next morning the gentlemen sat down to write. It was a serious business; there was first of
all a contract for forty thousand Kroner for the sale of the mine, then a document whereby
Geissler made over the whole of the money to his wife and children. Isak and Sivert were called
in to witness the signatures to these. When it was done, the gentlemen wanted to buy over Isak's
percentage for a ridiculous sum--five hundred Kroner. Geissler put a stop to that, however.
"Jesting apart," he said.

Isak himself understood but little of the whole affair; he had sold the place once, and got
his money. But in any case, he did not care much about Kroner--it was not real money like Daler.
Sivert, on the other hand, followed the business with more understanding. There was something
peculiar, he thought, about the tone of these negotiations; it looked very much like a family
affair between the parties. One of the strangers would say: "My dear Geissler, you ought not
to have such red eyes, you know." Whereto Geissler answered sharply, if evasively: "No, I ought
not, I know. But we don't all get what we ought to in this world!"

It looked very much as if Fru Geissler's brothers and kinsmen were trying to buy off her husband,
secure themselves against his visits for the future, and get quit of a troublesome relation.
As to the mine, it was worth something in itself, no doubt, no one denied it; but it lay far
out of the way, and the buyers themselves said they were only taking it over in order to sell
it again to some one better in a position to work it. There was nothing unreasonable in that.
They declared too, quite frankly, that they had no idea what they would be able to get for
it as it stood; if it were taken up and worked, then the forty thousand might turn out to be
only a fraction of what it was worth; if it were allowed to lie there as it was, the money
was simply thrown away. But in any case, they wanted to have a clear title, without encumbrance,
and therefore they offered Isak five hundred Kroner for his share.

"I'm acting on his behalf," said Geissler, "and I'm not going to sell out his share for less
than ten per cent. of the purchase-money."

"Four thousand!" said the others.

"Four thousand," said Geissler. "The land was his, and his share comes to four thousand. It
wasn't mine, and I get forty thousand. Kindly turn that over in your minds, if you please."

"Yes, but--four thousand Kroner!"

Geissler rose from his place, and said: "That, or no sale."

They thought it over, whispered about it, went out into the yard, talking as long as they could.
"Get the horses ready," they called to the servants. One of the gentlemen went in to Inger
and paid royally for coffee, a few eggs, and their lodging. Geissler walked about with a careless
air, but he was wide awake all the same.

"How did that irrigation work turn out last year?" he asked Sivert.

"It saved the whole crop."

"You've cut away that mound there since I was here last, what?"

"Ay."

"You must have another horse on the farm," said Geissler. He noticed everything.

One of the strangers came up. "Now then, let's get this matter settled and have done with it,"
he said.

They all went into the new building again, and Isak's four thousand Kroner were counted out.
Geissler was given a paper, which he thrust into his pocket as if it were of no value at all.
"Keep that carefully," they told him, "and in a few days your wife shall have the bankbook sent."

Geissler puckered his forehead and said shortly: "Very good."

But they were not finished with Geissler yet. Not that he opened his mouth to ask for anything;
he simply stood there, and they saw how he stood there: maybe he had stipulated beforehand
for a trifle on his own account. The leader gave him a bundle of notes, and Geissler simply
nodded again, and said: "Very good."

"And now I think we ought to drink a glass with Geissler," said the other.

They drank, and that was done. And then they took leave of Geissler.

Just at that moment came Brede Olsen walking up. Now what did he want? Brede had doubtless
heard the reports of the blasting charges the day before, and understood that there was something
on foot in the way of mines. And now he came up ready to sell something too. He walked straight
past Geissler, and addressed himself to the gentlemen; he had found some remarkable specimens
of rock hereabouts, quite extraordinary, some blood-like, others like silver; he knew every
cranny and corner in the hills around and could go straight to every spot; he knew of long
veins of some heavy metal--whatever it might be.

"Have you any samples?" asked the mining expert.

Yes, Brede had samples. But couldn't they just as well go up and look at the places at once?
It wasn't far. Samples--oh, sacks of them, whole packing-cases full. No, he had not brought
them with him, they were at home--he could run down and fetch them. But it would be quicker
just to run up into the hills and fetch some more, if they would only wait.

The men shook their heads and went on their way.

Brede looked after them with an injured air. If he had felt a glimmer of hope for the moment,
it was gone now; fate was against him, nothing ever went right. Well for Brede that he was
not easily cast down; he looked after the men as they rode away, and said at last: "Wish you
a pleasant journey!" And that was all.

But now he was humble again in his manner towards Geissler, his former chief, and no longer
treated him as an equal, but used forms of respect. Geissler had taken out his pocket-book
on some pretext or other, and any one could see that it was stuffed full of notes.

"If only Lensmand could help me a bit," said Brede.

"Go back home and work your land properly," said Geissler, and helped him not a bit.

"I might easily have brought up a whole barrow-load of samples, but wouldn't it have been easier
to go up and look at the place itself while they were here?"

Geissler took no notice of him, and turned to Isak: "Did you see what I did with that document?
It was a most important thing--a matter of several thousand Kroner. Oh, here it is, in among
a bundle of notes."

"Who were those people?" asked Brede. "Just out for a ride, or what?"

Geissler had been having an anxious time, no doubt, and now he cooled down. But he had still
something of life and eagerness in him, enough to do a little more; he went up into the hills
with Sivert, and took a big sheet of paper with him, and drew a map of the ground south of
the lake--Heaven knows what he had in mind. When he came down to the farm some hours later,
Brede was still there, but Geissler took no notice of his questions; Geissler was tired, and
waved him aside.

He slept like a stone till next morning early, then he rose with the sun, and was himself again.
"Sellanraa," said he, standing outside and looking all round.

"All that money," said Isak; "does it mean I'm to have it all?"

"All?" said Geissler. "Heavens, man, can't you see it ought to have been ever so much more?
And it was my business really to pay you, according to our contract; but you saw how things
were--it was the only way to manage it. What did you get? Only a thousand Daler, according
to the old reckoning. I've been thinking, you'll need another horse on the place now."

"Ay."

"Well, I know of one. That fellow Heyerdahl's assistant, he's letting his place go to rack
and ruin; takes more interest in running about selling folk up. He's sold a deal of his stock
already, and he'll be willing to sell the horse."

"I'll see him about it," said Isak.

Geissler waved his hand broadly around, and said: "Margrave, landowner--that's you! House and
stock and cultivated land--they can't starve you out if they try!"

"No," said Isak. "We've all we could wish for that the Lord ever made."

Geissler went fussing about the place, and suddenly slipped in to Inger. "Could you manage
a bit of food for me to take along again?" he asked. "Just a few wafers--no butter and cheese;
there's good things enough in them already. No, do as I say; I can't carry more."

Out again. Geissler was restless, he went into the new building and sat down to write. He had
thought it all out beforehand, and it did not take long now to get it down. Sending in an application
to the State, he explained loftily to Isak--"to the Ministry of the Interior, you understand.
Yes, I've no end of things to look after all at once."

When he had got his parcel of food and had taken leave, he seemed to remember something all
of a sudden: "Oh, by the way, I'm afraid I owe you something from last time--I took out a note
from my pocket-book on purpose, and then stuck it in my waistcoat pocket--I found it there
afterwards. Too many things to think about all at once...." He put something into Inger's hand
and off he went.

Ay, off went Geissler, bravely enough to all seeming. Nothing downcast nor anyway nearing his
end; he came to Sellanraa again after, and it was long years before he died. Each time he went
away the Sellanraa folk missed him as a friend. Isak had been thinking of asking him about
Breidablik, getting his advice, but nothing came of it. And maybe Geissler would have dissuaded
him there; have thought it a risky thing to buy up land for cultivation and give it to Eleseus;
to a clerk.

Chapter XVIII

Uncle Sivert died after all. Eleseus spent three weeks looking after him, and then the old
man died. Eleseus arranged the funeral, and managed things very well; got hold of a fuchsia
or so from the cottages round, and borrowed a flag to hoist at half-mast, and bought some black
stuff from the store for lowered blinds. Isak and Inger were sent for, and came to the burial.
Eleseus acted as host, and served out refreshments to the guests; ay, and when the body was
carried out, and they had sung a hymn, Eleseus actually said a few suitable words over the
coffin, and his mother was so proud and touched that she had to use her handkerchief. Everything
went off splendidly.

Then on the way home with his father, Eleseus had to carry that spring coat of his openly,
though he managed to hide the stick in one of the sleeves. All went well till they had to cross
the water in a boat; then his father sat down unexpectedly on the coat, and there was a crack.
"What was that?" asked Isak.

"Oh, nothing," said Eleseus.

But he did not throw the broken stick away; as soon as they got home, he set about looking
for a bit of tube or something to mend it with. "We'll fix it all right," said Sivert, the
incorrigible. "Look here, get a good stout splint of wood on either side, and lash all fast
with waxed thread...."

"I'll lash you with waxed thread," said Eleseus.

"Ha ha ha! Well, perhaps you'd rather tie it up neatly with a red garter?"

"Ha ha ha," said Eleseus himself at that; but he went in to his mother, and got her to give
him an old thimble, filed off the end, and made quite a fine ferrule. Oh, Eleseus was not so
helpless after all, with his long, white hands.

The brothers teased each other as much as ever. "Am I to have what Uncle Sivert's left?" asked
Eleseus.

"You have it? How much is it?" asked Sivert.

"Ha ha ha, you want to know how much it is first, you old miser!"

"Well, you can have it, anyway," said Sivert.

"It's between five and ten thousand."

"Daler?" cried Sivert; he couldn't help it.

Now Eleseus never reckoned in Daler, but he didn't like to say no at the time, so he just nodded,
and left it at that till next day.

Then he took up the matter again. "Aren't you sorry you gave me all that yesterday?" he said.

"Woodenhead! Of course not," said Sivert. That was what he said, but--well, five thousand Daler
was five thousand Daler, and no little sum; if his brother were anything but a lousy Indian
savage, he ought to give back half.

"Well, to tell the truth," explained Eleseus, "I don't reckon to get fat on that legacy, after
all."

Sivert looked at him in astonishment. "Ho, don't you?"

"No, nothing special, that is to say. Not what you might call par excellence."

Eleseus had some notions of accounts, of course, and Uncle Sivert's money-chest, the famous
bottle-case, had been opened and examined while he was there; he had had to go through all
the accounts and make up a balance sheet. Uncle Sivert had not set this nephew to work on the
fields or mending of herring nets; he had initiated him into a complex muddle of figures, the
weirdest book-keeping ever seen. If a man had paid his taxes some years back in kind, with
a goat, say, or a load of dried cod, there was neither flesh nor fish to show for it now; but
old Sivert searched his memory and said, "He's paid!"

"Right, then we'll cross him out," said Sivert.

Eleseus was the man for this sort of work; he was bright and quick, and encouraged the invalid
by assuring him that things were all right; the two had got on well together, even to jesting
at times. Eleseus was a bit of a fool, perhaps, in some things, but so was his uncle; and the
two of them sat there drawing up elaborate documents in favour not only of little Sivert but
also to benefit the village, the commune which the old man had served for thirty years. Oh,
they were grand days! "I couldn't have got a better man to help with all this than you, Eleseus
boy," said Uncle Sivert. He sent out and bought mutton, in the middle of the summer; fish was
brought up fresh from the sea, Eleseus being ordered to pay cash from the chest. They lived
well enough. They got hold of Oline--they couldn't have found a better person to invite to
a feast, nor one more sure to spread abroad the news of Uncle Sivert's greatness to the end.
And the satisfaction was mutual. "We must do something for Oline, too," said Uncle Sivert,
"she being a widow and not well off. There'll be enough for little Sivert, anyhow." Eleseus
managed it with a few strokes of the pen; a mere codicil to the last will and testament, and
lo, Oline was also a sharer in the inheritance.

"I'll look after you," said Uncle Sivert to her. "If so be I shouldn't get better this time
and get about again on earth I'll take care you're not left out." Oline declared that she was
speechless, but speechless she was not; she wept and was touched to the heart and grateful;
there was none to compare with Oline for finding the immediate connection between a worldly
gift and being "repaid a thousandfold eternally in the world to come." No, speechless she was not.

But Eleseus? At first, perhaps, he may have taken a bright enough view of his uncle's affairs,
but after a while he began to think things over and talk as well. He tried at first with a
slight hint: "The accounts aren't exactly as they should be," he said.

"Well, never mind that," said the old man. "There'll be enough and to spare when I'm gone."

"You've money outstanding besides, maybe?" said Eleseus. "In a bank, or so?" For so report
had said.

"H'm," said the old man. "That's as it may be. But, anyhow, with the fishery, the farm and
buildings and stock, red cows and white cows and all--don't you worry about that, Eleseus, my boy."

Eleseus had no idea what the fishery business might be worth, but he had seen the live stock;
it consisted of one cow, partly red and partly white. Uncle Sivert must have been delirious.
Some of the accounts, too, were difficult to make out at all; they were a muddle, a bare jumble
of figures, especially from the date when the coinage was changed; the district treasurer had
frequently reckoned the small Kroner as if they were full Daler. No wonder he fancied himself
rich! But when everything was reduced to something like order, Eleseus feared there would not
be much left over. Perhaps not enough to settle at all.

Ay, Sivert might easily promise him all that came to him from his uncle!

The two brothers jested about it. Sivert was not upset over the matter, not at all; perhaps,
indeed, it might have irked him something more if he really had thrown away five thousand Daler.
He knew well enough that it had been a mere speculation, naming him after his uncle; he had
no claim to anything there. And now he pressed Eleseus to take what there was. "It's to be
yours, of course," said he. "Come along, let's get it set down in writing. I'd like to see
you a rich man. Don't be too proud to take it!"

Ay, they had many a laugh together. Sivert, indeed, was the one that helped most to keep Eleseus
at home; it would have been much harder but for him.

As a matter of fact, Eleseus was getting rather spoiled again; the three weeks' idling on the
other side of the hills had not done him any good. He had also been to church there, and made
a show; ay, he had even met some girls there. Here at Sellanraa there was nothing of that sort;
Jensine, the servant-maid, was a mere nothing, a worker and no more, rather suited to Sivert.

"I've a fancy to see how that girl Barbro from Breidablik turned out now she's grown up," said
Eleseus one day.

"Well, go down to Axel Ström's place and see," said Sivert.

Eleseus went down one Sunday. Ay, he had been away, gained confidence and high spirits once
more; he had tasted excitement of a sort, and he made things livelier at Axel's little place.
Barbro herself was by no means to be despised; at any rate she was the only one anywhere near.
She played the guitar and talked readily; moreover, she did not smell of tansy, but of real
scent, the sort you buy in shops. Eleseus, on his part, let it be understood that he was only
home for a holiday, and would soon be called back to the office again. But it was not so bad
being at home after all, in the old place, and, of course, he had the little bedroom to live
in. But it was not like being in town!

"Nay, that's a true word," said Barbro, "Town's very different from this."

Axel himself was altogether out of it with these two town-folk; he found it dull with them,
and preferred to go out and look over his land. The pair of them were left to do as they liked,
and Eleseus managed things grandly. He told how he had been over to the neighbouring village
to bury his uncle, and did not forget to mention the speech he had made over the coffin.

When he took his leave, he asked Barbro to go part of the way home with him. But Barbro, thank
you, was not inclined that way.

"Is that the way they do things where you've been," she asked--"for the ladies to escort the
gentlemen home?"

That was a nasty hit for Eleseus; he turned red, and understood he had offended her.

Nevertheless, he went down to Maaneland again next Sunday, and this time he took his stick.
They talked as before, and Axel was out of it altogether, as before. "'Tis a big place your
father's got," said he. "And building again, now, it seems."

"Ay, it's all very well for him," said Eleseus, anxious to show off a little. "He can afford
it. It's another matter with poor folk like ourselves."

"How d'you mean?"

"Oh, haven't you heard? There's been some Swedish millionaires came down the other day and
bought a mine of him, a copper mine."

"Why, you don't say? And he'll have got a heap of money for it, then?"

"Enormous. Well, I don't want to boast, but it was at any rate ever so many thousands. What
was I going to say? Build? You've a deal of timber lying about here yourself. When are you
going to start?"

Barbro put in her word here: "Never!"

Now that was pure exaggeration and impertinence. Axel had got his stones the autumn before,
and carted them home that winter; now, between seasons, he had got the foundation walls done,
and cellar and all else--all that remained was to build the timbered part above. He was hoping
to get part of it roofed in this autumn, and had thought of asking Sivert to lend him a hand
for a few days--what did Eleseus think of that?

Eleseus thought like as not. "But why not ask me?" he said, smiling.

"You?" said Axel, and he spoke with sudden respect at the idea. "You've talents for other things
than that, I take it."

Oh, but it was pleasant to find oneself appreciated here in the wilds! "Why, I'm afraid my
hands aren't much good at that sort of work," said Eleseus delicately.

"Let me look," said Barbro, and took his hand.

Axel dropped out of the conversation again, and went out, leaving the two of them alone. They
were of an age, had been to school together, and played and kissed each other and raced about;
and now, with a fine disdainful carelessness, they talked of old times--exchanging reminiscences--and
Barbro, perhaps, was inclined to show off a little before her companion. True, this Eleseus
was not like the really fine young men in offices, that wore glasses and gold watches and so
on, but he could pass for a gentleman here in the wilds, there was no denying that. And she
took out her photograph now and showed him--that's what she looked like then--"all different
now, of course." And Barbro sighed.

"Why, what's the matter with you now?" he asked.

"Don't you think I've changed for the worse since then?"

"Changed for the worse, indeed! Well, I don't mind telling you you're ever so much prettier
now," said he, "filled out all round. For the worse? Ho! That's a fine idea!"

"But it's a nice dress, don't you think? Cut open just a bit front and back. And then I had
that silver chain you see there, and it cost a heap of money, too; it was a present from one
of the young clerks I was with then. But I lost it. Not exactly lost it, you know, but I wanted
money to come home."

Eleseus asked: "Can I have the photo to keep?"

"To keep? H'm. What'll you give me for it?"

Oh, Eleseus knew well enough what he wanted to say, but he dared not. "I'll have mine taken
when I go back to town," he said instead, "and send it you."

Barbro put away the photograph. "No, it's the only one I've left."

That was a stroke of darkness to his young heart, and he stretched out his hand towards the
picture.

"Well, give me something for it, now," she said, laughing. And at that he up and kissed her
properly.

After that it was easier all round; Eleseus brightened up, and got on finely. They flirted
and joked and laughed, and were excellent friends. "When you took my hand just now it was like
a bit of swan's down--yours, I mean."

"Oh, you'll be going back to town again, and never come back here, I'll be bound," said Barbro.

"Do you think I'm that sort?" said Eleseus.

"Ah, I dare say there's a somebody there you're fond of."

"No, there isn't. Between you and me, I'm not engaged at all," said he.

"Oh yes, you are; I know."

"No, solemn fact, I'm not."

They carried on like this quite a while; Eleseus was plainly in love. "I'll write to you,"
said he. "May I?"

"Yes," said she.

"For I wouldn't be mean enough if you didn't care about it, you know." And suddenly he was
jealous, and asked: "I've heard say you're promised to Axel here; is it true?"

"Axel?" she said scornfully, and he brightened up again. "I'll see him farther!" But then she
turned penitent, and added: "Alex, he's good enough for me, though.... And he takes in a paper
all for me to read, and gives me things now and again--lots of things. I will say that"

"Oh, of course," Eleseus agreed. "He may be an excellent fellow in his way, but that's not
everything...."

But the thought of Axel seemed to have made Barbro anxious; she got up, and said to Eleseus:
"You'll have to go now; I must see to the animals."

Next Sunday Eleseus went down a good deal later than usual, and carried the letter himself.
It was a letter! A whole week of excitement, all the trouble it had cost him to write, but
here it was at last; he had managed to produce a letter: "To Fröken Barbro Bredesen. It is
two or three times now I have had the inexpressible delight of seeing you again...."

Coming so late as he did now, Barbro must at any rate have finished seeing to the animals,
and might perhaps have gone to bed already. That wouldn't matter--quite the reverse, indeed.

But Barbro was up, sitting in the hut. She looked now as if she had suddenly lost all idea
of being nice to him and making love--Eleseus fancied Axel had perhaps got hold of her and
warned her.

"Here's the letter I promised you," he said.

"Thank you," said she, and opened it, and read it through without seeming much moved. "I wish
I could write as nice a hand as that," she said.

Eleseus was disappointed. What had he done--what was the matter with her? And where was Axel?
He was not there. Beginning to get tired of these foolish Sunday visits, perhaps, and preferred
to stay away; or he might have had some business to keep him over, when he went down to the
village the day before. Anyhow, he was not there.

"What d'you want to sit here in this stuffy old place for on a lovely evening?" asked Eleseus.
"Come out for a walk."

"I'm waiting for Axel," she answered.

"Axel? Can't you live without Axel, then?"

"Yes. But he'll want something to eat when he comes back."

Time went, time dribbled away, they came no nearer each other; Barbro was as cross and contrary
as ever. He tried telling her again of his visit across the hills, and did not forget about
the speech he had made: "'Twasn't much I had to say, but all the same it brought out the tears
from some of them."

"Did it?" said she.

"And then one Sunday I went to church."

"What news there?"

"News? Oh, nothing. Only to have a look round. Not much of a priest, as far as I know anything
about it; no sort of manner, he had."

Time went.

"What d'you think Axel'd say if he found you here this evening again?" said Barbro suddenly.

There was a thing to say! It was as if she had struck him. Had she forgotten all about last
time? Hadn't they agreed that he was to come this evening? Eleseus was deeply hurt, and murmured:
"I can go, if you like. What have I done?" he asked then, his lips trembling. He was in distress,
in trouble, that was plain to see.

"Done? Oh, you haven't done anything."

"Well, what's the matter with you, anyway, this evening?"

"With me? Ha ha ha!--But come to think of it, 'tis no wonder Axel should be angry."

"I'll go, then," said Eleseus again. But she was still indifferent, not in the least afraid,
caring nothing that he sat there struggling with his feelings. Fool of a woman!

And now he began to grow angry; he hinted his displeasure at first delicately: to the effect
that she was a nice sort indeed, and a credit to her sex, huh! But when that produced no effect--oh,
he would have done better to endure it patiently, and say nothing. But he grew no better for
that; he said: "If I'd known you were going to be like this, I'd never have come this evening
at all."

"Well, what if you hadn't?" said she. "You'd have lost a chance of airing that cane of yours
that you're so fond of."

Oh, Barbro, she had lived in Bergen, she knew how to jeer at a man; she had seen real walking-sticks,
and could ask now what he wanted to go swinging a patched-up umbrella handle like that for.
But he let her go on.

"I suppose now you'll be wanting that photograph back you gave me," he said. And if that didn't
move her, surely nothing would, for among folks in the wilds, there was nothing counted so
mean as to take back a gift.

"That's as it may be," she answered evasively.

"Oh, you shall have it all right," he answered bravely. "I'll send it back at once, never fear.
And now perhaps you'll give me back my letter." Eleseus rose to his feet.

Very well; she gave him back the letter. But now the tears came into her eyes as she did so;
this servant girl was touched; her friend was forsaking her--good-bye for ever!

"You've no need to go," she said. "I don't care for what Axel says."

But Eleseus had the upper hand now, and must use it; he thanked her and said good-bye. "When
a lady carries on that way," he said, "there's nothing else to be done."

He left the house, quietly, and walked up homeward, whistling, swinging his stick, and playing
the man. Huh! A little while after came Barbro walking up; she called to him once or twice.
Very well; he stopped, so he did, but was a wounded lion. She sat down in the heather looking
penitent; she fidgeted with a sprig, and a little after he too softened, and asked for a kiss,
the last time, just to say good-bye, he said. No, she would not. "Be nice and be a dear, like
you were last time," he begged, and moved round her on all sides, stepping quickly, if he could
see his chance. But she would not be a dear; she got up. And there she stood. And at that he
simply nodded and went.

When he was out of sight, Axel appeared suddenly from behind some bushes. Barbro started, all
taken aback, and asked: "What's that--where have you been? Up that way?"

"No; I've been down that way," he answered. "But I saw you two going up here."

"Ho, did you? And a lot of good it did you, I dare say," she cried, suddenly furious. She was
certainly not easier to deal with now. "What are you poking and sniffing about after, I'd like
to know? What's it to do with you?"

Axel was not in the best of temper himself. "H'm. So he's been here again today?"

"Well, what if he has? What do you want with him?"

"I want with him? It's what you want with him, I'd like to ask. You ought to be ashamed."

"Ashamed? Huh! The least said about that, if you ask me," said Barbro. "I'm here to sit in
the house like a statue, I suppose? What have I got to be ashamed of, anyway? If you like to
go and get some one else to look after the place, I'm ready to go. You hold your tongue, that's
all I've got to say, if it's not too much to ask. I'm going back now to get your supper and
make the coffee, and after that I can do as I please."

They came home with the quarrel at its height.

No, they were not always the best of friends, Axel and Barbro; there was trouble now and again.
She had been with him now for a couple of years, and they had had words before; mostly when
Barbro talked of finding another place. He wanted her to stay there for ever, to settle down
there and share the house and life with him; he knew how hard it would be for him if he were
left without help again. And she had promised several times--ay, in her more affectionate moments
she would not think of going away at all. But the moment they quarrelled about anything, she
invariably threatened to go. If for nothing else, she must go to have her teeth seen to in
town. Go, go away ... Axel felt he must find a means to keep her.

Keep her? A lot Barbro cared for his trying to keep her if she didn't want to stay.

"Ho, so you want to go away again?" said he.

"Well, and if I do?"

"Can you, d'you think?"

"Well, and why not? If you think I'm afraid because the winter's coming on ... But I can get
a place in Bergen any day I like."

Then said Axel steadily enough: "It'll be some time before you can do that, anyway. As long
as you're with child."

"With child? What are you talking about?"

Axel stared. Was the girl mad? True, he himself should have been more patient. Now that he
had the means of keeping her, he had grown too confident, and that was a mistake; there was
no need to be sharp with her and make her wild; he need not have ordered her in so many words
to help him with the potatoes that spring--he might have planted them by himself. There would
be plenty of time for him to assert his authority after they were married; until then he ought
to have had sense enough to give way.

But--it was too bad, this business with Eleseus, this clerk, who came swaggering about with
his walking-stick and all his fine talk. For a girl to carry on like that when she was promised
to another man--and in her condition! It was beyond understanding. Up to then, Axel had had
no rival to compete with--now, it was different.

"Here's a new paper for you," he said. "And here's a bit of a thing I got you. Don't know if
you'll care about it."

Barbro was cold. They were sitting there together, drinking scalding hot coffee from the bowl,
but for all that she answered icy cold:

"I suppose that's the gold ring you've been promising me this twelvemonth and more."

This, however, was beyond the mark, for it was the ring after all. But a gold ring it was not,
and that he had never promised her--'twas an invention of her own; silver it was, with gilt
hands clasped, real silver, with the mark on and all. But ah, that unlucky voyage of hers to
Bergen! Barbro had seen real engagement rings--no use telling her!

"That ring! Huh! You can keep it yourself."

"What's wrong with it, then?"

"Wrong with it? There's nothing wrong with it that I know," she answered, and got up to clear
the table.

"Why, you'll needs make do with it for now," he said. "Maybe I'll manage another some day."

Barbro made no answer.

A thankless creature was Barbro this evening. A new silver ring--she might at least have thanked
him nicely for it. It must be that clerk with the town ways that had turned her head. Axel
could not help saying: "I'd like to know what that fellow Eleseus keeps coming here for, anyway.
What does he want with you?"

"With me?"

"Ay. Is he such a greenhorn and can't see how 'tis with you now? Hasn't he eyes in his head?"

Barbro turned on him straight at that: "Oh, so you think you've got a hold on me because of
that? You'll find out you're wrong, that's all."

"Ho!" said Axel.

"Ay, and I'll not stay here, neither."

But Axel only smiled a little at this; not broadly and laughing in her face, no; for he did
not mean to cross her. And then he spoke soothingly, as to a child: "Be a good girl now, Barbro.
'Tis you and me, you know."

And of course in the end Barbro gave in and was good, and even went to sleep with the silver
ring on her finger.

It would all come right in time, never fear.

For the two in the hut, yes. But what about Eleseus? 'Twas worse with him; he found it hard
to get over the shameful way Barbro had treated him. He knew nothing of hysterics, and took
it as all pure cruelty on her part; that girl Barbro from Breidablik thought a deal too much
of herself, even though she had been in Bergen....

He sent her back the photograph in a way of his own--took it down himself one night and stuck
it through the door to her in the hayloft, where she slept. 'Twas not done in any rough unmannerly
way, not at all; he had fidgeted with the door a long time so as to wake her, and when she
rose up on her elbow and asked, "What's the matter; can't you find your way in this evening?"
he understood the question was meant for some one else, and it went through him like a needle;
like a sabre.

He walked back home--no walking-stick, no whistling. He did not care about playing the man
any longer. A stab at the heart is no light matter.

And was that the last of it?

One Sunday he went down just to look; to peep and spy. With a sickly and unnatural patience
he lay in hiding among the bushes, staring over at the hut. And when at last there came a sign
of life and movement it was enough to make an end of him altogether: Axel and Barbro came out
together and went across to the cowshed. They were loving and affectionate now, ay, they had
a blessed hour; they walked with their arms round each other, and he was going to help her
with the animals. Ho, yes!

Eleseus watched the pair with a look as if he had lost all; as a ruined man. And his thought,
maybe, was like this: There she goes arm in arm with Axel Ström. How she could ever do it I
can't think; there was a time when she put her arms round me! And there they disappeared into
the shed.

Well, let them! Huh! Was he to lie here in the bushes and forget himself? A nice thing for
him--to lie there flat on his belly and forget himself. Who was she, after all? But he was
the man he was. Huh! again.

He sprang to his feet and stood up. Brushed the twigs and dust from his clothes and drew himself
up and stood upright again. His rage and desperation came out in a curious fashion now: he
threw all care to the winds, and began singing a ballad of highly frivolous import. And there
was an earnest expression on his face as he took care to sing the worst parts loudest of all.

Chapter XIX

Isak came back from the village with a horse. Ay, it had come to that; he had bought the horse
from the Lensmand's assistant; the animal was for sale, as Geissler had said, but it cost two
hundred and forty Kroner--that was sixty Daler. The price of horseflesh had gone up beyond
all bounds: when Isak was a boy the best horse could be bought for fifty Daler.

But why had he never raised a horse himself? He had thought of it, had imagined a nice little
foal--that he had been waiting for these two years past. That was a business for folk who could
spare the time from their land, could leave waste patches lying waste till they got a horse
to carry home the crop. The Lensmand's assistant had said: "I don't care about paying for a
horse's keep myself; I've no more hay than my womenfolk can get it in by themselves while I'm
away on duty."

The new horse was an old idea of Isak's, he had been thinking of it for years; it was not Geissler
who had put him up to it. And he had also made preparations such as he could; a new stall,
a new rope for tethering it in the summer; as for carts, he had some already, he must make
some more for the autumn. Most important of all was the fodder, and he had not forgotten that,
of course; or why should he have thought it so important to get that last patch broken up last
year if it hadn't been to save getting rid of one of the cows, and yet have enough keep for
a new horse? It was, sown for green fodder now; that was for the calving cows.

Ay, he had thought it all out. Well might Inger be astonished again, and clap her hands just
as in the old days.

Isak brought news from the village; Breidablik was to be sold, there was a notice outside the
church. The bit of crop, such as it was,--hay and potatoes,--to go with the rest. Perhaps the
live stock too; a few beasts only, nothing big.

"Is he going to sell up the home altogether and leave nothing?" cried Inger. "And where's he
going to live?"

"In the village."

It was true enough. Brede was going back to the tillage. But he had first tried to get Axel
Ström to let him live there with Barbro. He didn't succeed. Brede would never dream of interfering
with the relations between his daughter and Axel, so he was careful not to make himself a nuisance,
though to be sure it was a hard set-back, with all the rest. Axel was going to get his new
house built that autumn; well, then, when he and Barbro moved in there, why couldn't Brede
and his family have a hut? No! 'Twas so with Brede, he didn't look at things like a farmer
and a settler on new land; he didn't understand that Axel had to move out because he wanted
the hut for his growing stock; the hut was to be a new cowshed. And even when this was explained
to him, he failed to see the point of view; surely human beings should come before animals,
he said. No, a settler's way was different; animals first; a man could always find himself
a shelter for the winter. But Barbro put in a word herself now: "Ho, so you put the animals
first and us after? 'Tis just as well I know it!" So Axel had made enemies of a whole family
because he hadn't room to house them. But he would not give way. He was no good-natured fool,
was Axel, but on the contrary he had grown more and more careful; he knew well that a crowd
like that moving in would give him so many more mouths to fill. Brede bade his daughter be
quiet, and tried to make out that he himself would rather move down to the village again; couldn't
endure life in the wilderness, he said--'twas only for that reason he was selling the place.

Oh, but to tell the truth it was not so much Brede was selling the place; 'twas the Bank and
the storekeeper were selling up Breidablik, though for the sake of appearances they let it
be done in Brede's name. That way, he thought he was saved from disgrace. And Brede was not
altogether dejected when Isak met him; he consoled himself with the thought that he was still
Inspector on the telegraph line; that was a regular income, anyway, and in time he would be
able to work up to his old position in the place as the Lensmand's companion and this and that.
He was something affected at the change, of course; 'twas not so easy to say good-bye to a
place where one had lived and toiled and moiled so many years, and come to care for. But Brede,
good man, was never long cast down. 'Twas his best point, the charm of him. He had once in
his life taken it into his head to be a tiller of the soil, 'twas an inspiration had come to
him. True, he had not made a success of it, but he had taken up other plans in the same airy
way and got on better; and who could say--perhaps his samples of ore might after all turn out
something wonderful in time! And then look at Barbro, he had got her fixed up there at Maaneland,
and she'd not be leaving Axel Ström now, that he could swear--'twas plain indeed for any one
to see.

No, there was nothing to fear as long as he had his health and could work for himself and those
that looked to him, said Brede Olsen. And the children were just growing up, and big enough
now to go out and make their own way in the world, said he. Helge was gone to the herring fisheries
already, and Katrine was going to help at the doctor's. That left only the two youngest--well,
well, there was a third on the way, true, but, anyhow ...

Isak had more news from the village: the Lensmand's lady had had a baby. Inger suddenly interested
at this: "Boy or girl?"

"Why, I didn't hear which," said Isak.

But the Lensmand's lady had had a child after all--after all the way she'd spoken at the women's
club about the increasing birth-rate among the poor; better give women the franchise and let
them have some say in their own affairs, she said. And now she was caught. Yes, the parson's
wife had said, "She's had some say in lots of things--but her own affairs are none the better
for it, ha ha ha!" And that was a clever saying that went the round of the village, and there
were many that understood what was meant--Inger no doubt as well; it was only Isak who did
not understand.

Isak understood his work, his calling. He was a rich man now, with a big farm, but the heavy
cash payments that had come to him by a lucky chance he used but poorly; he put the money aside.
The land saved him. If he had lived down in the village, maybe the great world would have affected
even him; so much gaiety, so many elegant manners and ways; he would have been buying useless
trifles, and wearing a red Sunday shirt on weekdays. Here in the wilds he was sheltered from
all immoderation; he lived in clear air, washed himself on Sunday mornings, and took a bath
when he went up to the lake. Those thousand Daler--well, 'twas a gift from Heaven, to be kept
intact. What else should he do? His ordinary outgoings were more than covered by the produce
of his fields and stock.

Eleseus, of course, knew better; he had advised his father to put the money in the Bank. Well,
perhaps that was the best, but Isak had put off doing it for the present--perhaps it would
never be done at all. Not that Isak was above taking advice from his son; Eleseus was no fool,
as he showed later on. Now, in the haymaking season, he had tried his hand with the scythe--but
he was no master hand at that, no. He kept close to Sivert, and had to get him to use the whetstone
every time. But Eleseus had long arms and could pick up hay in first-rate fashion. And he and
Sivert and Leopoldine, and Jensine the servant-maid, they were all busy now in the fields with
the first lot of hay that year. Eleseus did not spare himself either, but raked away till his
hands were blistered and had to be wrapped in rags. He had lost his appetite for a week or
so, but worked none the worse for it now. Something had come over the boy; it looked perhaps
as if a certain unhappy love affair or something of the sort, a touch of never-to-be-forgotten
sorrow and distress, had done him a world of good. And, look you, he had by now smoked the
last of the tobacco he had brought with him from town; ordinarily, that would have been enough
to make a clerk go about banging doors and expressing himself emphatically upon many points;
but no, Eleseus only grew the steadier for it firmer and more upright; a man indeed. Even Sivert,
the jester, could not put him out of countenance. Today the pair of them were lying out on
boulders in the river to drink, and Sivert imprudently offered to get some extra fine moss
and dry it for tobacco--"unless you'd rather smoke it raw?" he said.

"I'll give you tobacco," said Eleseus, and reaching out, ducked Sivert head and shoulders in
the water. Ho, one for him! Sivert came back with his hair still dripping.

"Looks like Eleseus he's turning out for the good," thought Isak to himself, watching his son
at work. And to Inger he said: "H'm--wonder if Eleseus he'll be staying home now for good?"

And she just as queerly cautious again: "'Tis more than I can say. No, I doubt if he will."

"Ho! Have you said a word of it to himself?"

"No--well, yes, I've talked a bit with him, maybe. But that's the way I think."

"Like to know, now--suppose he'd a bit of land of his own...."

"How do you mean?"

"If he'd work on a place of his own?"

"No."

"Well, have you said anything?"

"Said anything? Can't you see for yourself? No, I don't see anything in him Eleseus, that way."

"Don't sit there talking ill of him," said Isak impartially. "All I can see is, he's doing
a good day's work down there."

"Ay, maybe," said Inger submissively.

"And I can't see what you've got to find fault with the lad," cried Isak, evidently displeased.
"He does his work better and better every day, and what can you ask more?"

Inger murmured: "Ay, but he's not like he used to be. You try talking to him about waistcoats."

"About waistcoats? What d'you mean?"

"How he used to wear white waistcoats in summer when he was in town, so he says."

Isak pondered this a while; it was beyond him. "Well, can't he have a white waistcoat?" he
said. Isak was out of his depth here; of course it was only women's nonsense; to his mind,
the boy had a perfect right to a white waistcoat, if it pleased him; anyhow, he couldn't see
what there was to make a fuss about, and was inclined to put the matter aside and go on.

"Well, what do you think, if he had Brede's bit of land to work on?"

"Who?" said Inger.

"Him Eleseus."

"Breidablik? Nay, 'tis more than's worth your while."

The fact was, she had already been talking over that very plan with Eleseus, she had heard
it from Sivert, who could not keep the secret. And indeed, why should Sivert keep the matter
secret when his father had surely told him of it on purpose to feel his way? It was not the
first time he had used Sivert as a go-between. Well, but what had Eleseus answered? Just as
before, as in his letters from town, that no, he would not throw away all he had learned, and
be an insignificant nothing again. That was what he had said. Well, and then his mother had
brought out all her good reasons, but Eleseus had said no to them all; he had other plans for
his life. Young hearts have their unfathomable depths, and after what had happened, likely
enough he did not care about staying on with Barbro as a neighbour. Who could say? He had put
it loftily enough in talking to his mother; he could get a better position in town than the
one he had; could go as clerk to one of the higher officials. He must get on, he must rise
in the world. In a few years, perhaps, he might be a Lensmand, or perhaps a lighthouse keeper,
or get into the Customs. There were so many roads open to a man with learning.

However it might be, his mother came round, was drawn over to his point of view. Oh, she was
so little sure of herself yet; the world had not quite lost its hold on her. Last winter she
had gone so far as to read occasionally a certain excellent devotional work which she had brought
from Trondhjem, from the Institute; but now, Eleseus might be a Lensmand one day!

"And why not?" said Eleseus. "What's Heyerdahl himself but a former clerk in the same department?"

Splendid prospects. His mother herself advised him not to give up his career and throw himself
away. What was a man like that to do in the wilds?

But why should Eleseus then trouble to work hard and steadily as he was doing now on his father's
land? Heaven knows, he had some reason, maybe. Something of inborn pride in him still, perhaps;
he would not be outdone by others; and besides, it would do him no harm to be in his father's
good books the day he went away. To tell the truth, he had a number of little debts in town,
and it would be a good thing to be able to settle them at once--improve his credit a lot. And
it was not a question now of a mere hundred Kroner, but something worth considering.

Eleseus was far from stupid, but on the contrary, a sly fellow in his way. He had seen his
father come home, and knew well enough he was sitting there in the window at that moment, looking
out. No harm in putting his back into it then for a bit, working a little harder for the moment--it
would hurt no one, and might do himself good.

Eleseus was somehow changed; whatever it might be, something in him had been warped, and quietly
spoiled; he was not bad, but something blemished. Had he lacked a guiding hand those last few
years? What could his mother do to help him now? Only stand by him and agree. She could let
herself be dazzled by her son's bright prospects for the future, and stand between him and
his father, to take his part--she could do that.

But Isak grew impatient at last over her opposition; to his mind, the idea about Breidablik
was by no means a bad one. Only that very day, coming up, he had stopped the horse almost without
thinking, to look out with a critical eye over the ill-tended land; ay, it could be made a
fine place in proper hands.

"Why not worth while?" he asked Inger now. "I've that much feeling for Eleseus, anyway, that
I'd help him to it."

"If you've any feeling for him, then say never a word of Breidablik again," she answered.

"Ho!"

"Ay, for he's greater thoughts in his head than the like of us."

Isak, too, is hardly sure of himself here, and it weakens him; but he is by no means pleased
at having shown his hand, and spoken straight out about his plan. He is unwilling to give it
up now.

"He shall do as I say," declares Isak suddenly. And he raises his voice threateningly, in case
Inger by any chance should be hard of hearing. "Ay, you may look; I'll say no mere. It's midway
up, with a schoolhouse by, and everything; what's the greater thoughts he's got beyond that,
I'd like to know? With a son like that I might starve to death--is that any better, d'you think?
And can you tell me why my own flesh and blood should turn and go contrary to--to my own flesh
and blood?"

Isak stopped; he realized that the more he talked the worse it would be. He was on the point
of changing his clothes, getting out of his best things he had put on to go down to the village
in; but no, he altered his mind, he would stay as he was--whatever he meant by that. "You'd
better say a word of it to Eleseus," he says then.

And Inger answers: "Best if you'd say it yourself. He won't do as I say."

Very well, then, Isak is head of the house, so he should think; now see if Eleseus dares to
murmur! But, whether it were because he feared defeat, Isak draws back now, and says: "Ay,
'tis true, I might say a word of it myself. But by reason of having so many things to do, and
busy with this and that, I've something else to think of."

"Well ...?" said Inger in surprise.

And Isak goes off again--not very far, only to the farther fields, but still, he goes off.
He is full of mysteries, and must hide himself out of the way. The fact is this: he had brought
back a third piece of news from the village today, and that was something more than the rest,
something enormous; and he had hidden it at the edge of the wood. There it stands, wrapped
up in sacking and paper; he uncovers it, and lo, a huge machine. Look! red and blue, wonderful
to see, with a heap of teeth and a heap of knives, with joints and arms and screws and wheels--a
mowing-machine. No, Isak would not have gone down today for the new horse if it hadn't been
for that machine.

He stands with a marvellously keen expression, going over in his mind from beginning to end
the instructions for use that the storekeeper had read out; he sets a spring here, and shifts
a bolt there, then he oils every hole and every crevice, then he looks over the whole thing
once more. Isak had never known such an hour in his life. To pick up a pen and write one's
mark on a paper, a document--ay, 'twas a perilous great thing that, no doubt. Likewise in the
matter of a new harrow he had once brought up--there were many curiously twisted parts in that
to be considered. Not to speak of the great circular saw that had to be set in its course to
the nicety of a pencil line, never swaying east nor west, lest it should fly asunder. But this--this
mowing-machine of his--'twas a crawling nest of steel springs and hooks and apparatus, and
hundreds of screws--Inger's sewing-machine was a bookmarker compared with this!

Isak harnessed himself to the shafts and tried the thing. Here was the wonderful moment. And
that was why he kept out of sight and was his own horse.

For--what if the machine had been wrongly put together and did not do its work, but went to
pieces with a crash! No such calamity happened, however; the machine could cut grass. And so
indeed it ought, after Isak had stood there, deep in study, for hours. The sun had gone down.
Again he harnesses himself and tries it; ay, the thing cuts grass. And so indeed it ought!

When the dew began to fall close after the heat of the day, and the boys came out, each with
his scythe to mow in readiness for next day, Isak came in sight close to the house and said:

"Put away scythes for tonight. Get out the new horse, you can, and bring him down to the edge
of the wood."

And on that, instead of going indoors to his supper as the others had done already, he turned
where he stood and went back the way he had come.

"D'you want the cart, then?" Sivert called after him.

"No," said his father, and walked on.

Swelling with mystery, full of pride; with a little lift and throw from the knee at every step,
so emphatically did he walk. So a brave man might walk to death and destruction, carrying no
weapon in his hand.

The boys came up with the horse, saw the machine, and stopped dead. It was the first mowing-machine
in the wilds, the first in the village--red and blue, a thing of splendour to man's eyes. And
the father, head of them all, called out, oh, in a careless tone, as if it were nothing uncommon:
"Harness up to this machine here."

And they drove it; the father drove. Brrr! said the thing, and felled the grass in swathes.
The boys walked behind, nothing in their hands, doing no work, smiling. The father stopped
and looked back. H'm, not as clear as it might be. He screws up a nut here and there to bring
the knives closer to the ground, and tries again. No, not right yet, all uneven; the frame
with the cutters seems to be hopping a little. Father and sons discuss what it can be. Eleseus
has found the instructions and is reading them. "Here, it says to sit up on the seat when you
drive--then it runs steadier," he says.

"Ho!" says his father. "Ay, 'tis so, I know," he answers. "I've studied it all through." He
gets up into the seat and starts off again; it goes steadily now. Suddenly the machine stops
working--the knives are not cutting at all. "Ptro! What's wrong now?" Father down from his
seat, no longer swelling with pride, but bending an anxious, questioning face down over the
machine. Father and sons all stare at it; something must be wrong. Eleseus stands holding the
instructions.

"Here's a bolt or something," says Sivert, picking up a thing from the grass.

"Ho, that's all right, then," says his father, as if that was all that was needed to set everything
in order. "I was just looking for that bolt." But now they could not find the hole for it to
fit in--where in the name of wonder could the hole be, now?

And it was now that Eleseus could begin to feel himself a person of importance; he was the
man to make out a printed paper of instructions. What would they do without him? He pointed
unnecessarily long to the hole and explained: "According to the illustration, the bolt should
fit in there."

"Ay, that's where she goes," said his father. "'Twas there I had it before." And, by way of
regaining lost prestige, he ordered Sivert to set about looking for more bolts in the grass.
"There ought to be another," he said, looking very important, as if he carried the whole thing
in his head. "Can't you find another? Well, well, it'll be in its hole then, all right."

Father starts off again. They camp in the summer, in the bush in teams of
eight to ten, cut wood, prepared in the rough sandals pairs, and so them down to the village,
where, after it cured, they concluded just a little. In this task I found some of them occupied,
and seeing me enthralled narrow adze handle overalls and long shear, or removed by curette curly
chips from deep and intricate the Almadreña, or "painting", the tune and, at knifepoint on
artificial patina dried colostrum fire. Others are more carpenters, and also collects and prepared
in the bush timber stands and "canes" (poles) of horses, or farm implements which are then refined
and topped down.

Another peculiarity of those people buried among the highest mountains of the Andes: called "the Mountain"
to the flat land in the valleys of the coast, and "mountain" to its inhabitants.

One of the first people I got "the talk" on that occasion, was a man that was very original. I
found him picking edges of the floor and closing the gap with them a 'morio' which had collapsed
there. He worked with great deliberation, and was pushing a lot, without removing the pipe from
his mouth, every effort he made, because it was old.

He greeted me very smiling at me beside him, and I even called my name, "Don Marcelo."

Enough my quality of "sir" and a stranger to earn those honors a person of Tablanca, where are
all the same courtesy, but I was also nephew of Don Celso, son "of the late Don Juan Antonio" blood
Bejos Ruiz, of the noble substance of Tablanca, the "house" "...», going up there, the Pharaohs
of there, something indisputable, prestigious and respected per se
and as of divine right, but not the authoritarian manner despotic
feudal traditions, but to the patriarchal and llanota of biblical
times.

No wonder, then, should not miss me, view things from this side, the warm welcome I excused
the man morio.

Was "amañandu aqueyu" because he was in face view "in Abertal." Finances were not his, 'As I could
understand, "nor the land nor any fence, but had seen a day removed the first song of the
middle, then two of the "apareaos" with him, and then "other of arrimaus to eyus "and finally,
he had said," to the first celleriscas to come, or the first response to jocique up a little
lick pa verdinis Estus is the moriu esborrega around here. " And so it happened. Three days was the
open gap without being seen by the owner farm and a further four 'Pedric "he fruitlessly for him to
take up before it biting beasts to that gate and ended up with the "poverty" of the fence ...
until passing the "moriu" weeks in that state "bichornosu 'he had resolved to close the gap.
Why was this "one", and I could not help it. Not in all cases less than that the interest that
was taken by the alien, but she always gave in his face and got into big care carelessness of
others. I knew him when I had come to Tablanca and life I had done since then. She loved me attached
to the land and the house of my grandparents. Chisco was a good companion to walk where I walked
with him Pito also Salces, but not as "amañau" as the other "pa the AUTU of rozasi with finus
gentlemen." If Chisco out of Tablanca as was Robacio, there is nothing to ask. Still yet, faithful,
honest and serving workers as it was and where he served, no parent of that place was in "josticia
of law ", close the door of his house. Then there were those who, if not properly closed, either
is the opening of goodwill. Topics men. The girl was nice, and some goods had inherit in their
day, but was not "to each Callejues regolver" a good man flow was a "per with himself." Well she
knew him, so looking at Chisco with good eyes, but it was a very different looking from his
father, and he understood. The mother was on the road different than her husband, and snuggled
closer to those of the daughter ... In addition and settlement, and what Don Celso fix, if
the thing was good for everyone. But what "amejao" my father I found it! She had known him a
little more than "mozucu" because Don John Antonio I would, if alive, at the foot of ten years.
He had left the place without having Hair beard yet, then again, "mozallón arroganti Jechu
a" but "come out here and Aya, as he says otru that. " "We pulled it mundanu Muchu Jacia had
big bucks apañau through the land of God and the woman who waited to marry him. Had become to be
alone "the mayoralgu" he never wanted to destroy out of Tablanca. "Although it was not mujeriegu
of by suyu ", loneliness and other penalties had been forced to marry well. Married Well, that
yes, "Lifetime Bejo Rock!" with the best of Caórnica, home of the Pine: Dona Candida Sanchez
del Pinar. It seemed I was seeing, so arrogantona and so ... and then involved with their softness
... But God had not wanted things happen from there, and today a son, and tomorrow another, had
been the three who had been taking, and finally it worth a Potosi pure gold, and with it the
light and joy of the house, which fenecería "Tomorrow or the otru" with the poor Don Celso,
who had been about to die. And deceased Ruiz de Bejos latter, and in closing the house or moving
to unknown owners, what Tablanca would not live for his, no one came over in the valley as
old as the same river that crossed? So he was glad both of my coming. Permission might well be
of God. Because if I take attachment to the land, what better owner for the house, no more
pompous Lord for the entire valley, when Don Celso missing? Ah, how happy he is to I was cheering!
For now, there had to serve him in whatever he wanted to send ... Cucón Nardo, the "TARUMBA"
if it wanted more plain and familiar, because it was called the mote, did not know why, but it was
the truth that offended him ... Anyway, was closed gap ...

That was when he joined the TARUMBA all, although still somewhat bent
kidney and fairly wide apart, and faced me.

His talk had lasted as long as their work and I had not done more than look at him and hear him.
He removed his pipe from his mouth after rubbing both hands against his pants, Smote face down
on the thumbnail on the left and taught me a smile full of teeth chipped box. It was an old man's
face placid and very gray hair matted, somewhat reedy voice and very hard to "hinge", ie, awkward
their every move. For a man as careful as that of the estate of others, I felt very well looked
after itself had in view. I say this by the shabbiness and filth his whole person, which were
very large ... Still, it was interesting and very nice the old man.

I talked to him a good while yet, because I entertained a lot of their conversation picturesque and
I finally asked about the doctor's house.

- Sail there - I said
turning around to the right hand and pointing to "Lord a building
more than the current rate in the village -.

Two is Zanchetta in it.

- And Don Pedro Nolasco? - Ask later.

- Sailing to the other manu - he answered, pointing with his opposite
-.

Above tejau of the first to tend orchards, güertu, looms the Aleru
vencíu and detraseru jastialón of eya, with its balconies with fierru.

In this coming toward us from the top of the site, whose homes, like
those of all mountain areas, have no rhyme or reason to each other,
a girl of good picture, with a highly polished copper cauldron on
his head, and a clay pitcher in each hand.

The TARUMBA, after meeting her, he winked at me, turned back and told me while carrying on
snuff his pipe

- That's Tanasi.

- Who is Tanasi? - I asked myself.

- The eldest daughter of Toperu
- he answered.

- Who is the Toperu? - He inquired.

- Pos is the
father of Tanasi ... Come the monsoon Chiscu courting.

- Aha - I
cried watching her carefully, because time was passing in front us.

The monsoon, which had assumed something of what we were discussing
the TARUMBA and I became very red and smiled, lowering her eyes to
give us good morning.

Heart praised the good taste Chisco, and I explained well the molehill.

-
Well, what the hell you want for your daughter? - Asked TARUMBA.

-
One such Pepazus - I said it -.

A mozallón as a cajigu, which removes two hazas of a cave, eats cuatru Cavone, and unless the
pump unless it tenemus moriu ahead.

You say you have the Toperu this hobby, not because I am able to juralu that as Nah, you, sir
Don Marcelu, can ponder me and what I will or that come in these canteens?

Putting up at the doctor's house, who wished to pay his visit that
day, despedíme the TARUMBA, but it, cutting by half the dismissal,
she said she "gypsy he was also because both houses were full, and
his doctor, just opposite, and cast to walk beside me.

We spent an alley with many Bardales, and lead to a square green land and contoured for the
most part died with ivy and elders, said my companion, pointing to the left and bottom of
a bag that was there for two enclosures, one of 'busquizal "(thick bush) and a crumbling wall between
weeds:

- This is my home.

And turning to the opposite side, he added, while pointing to another that closed the square
there:

- And this is the méicu.

The house snuggled TARUMBA the wall on one side of ruin, and there was with him at pains and
losses and the harnesses from the owner.

With these thoughts in his head, looked at TARUMBA without saying
anything, but he must have read it to me in the face that I put, because
I said right away:

- No espanti of EYU, because it's metal or wood.

I stayed and women, not because of the salt beds and the hijus, among Casaus and ausentis, it mesmu
that if any; and I do not reach the pa ná tiempu with the work they give me the ajenus beware ...
Because, believe me Nah, you, sir Marcelu Don, what happened to me
has vistu moriu Nah, you raise, going on here with a thousand and
five hundred to ca time of day and nochi, and if not by the Tarumbu
juera, Nah, you don believe me Marcelu, believe me tomi Nah, you and
not to emponderancia: if the Tarumbu juera, the goal of Tablanca vecindariu
of callejonis Estus she would have been devoured by the swarm and
cuerus vivus.

Well keep me even putting it in doubt, I left him very affable, and I went to the doctor's house,
which was two steps.

IX

Since he had known little more than a glance, at my uncle, I felt a great desire to take a
paragraph to my taste Tablanca's physician, because it seemed to
me at that youth had more 'quarry' which is in the usual type and
flow of men their age and circumstances.

And the quarry was the first clearings, at ground level, as they say.

As I had been closer to home, came out to meet up with a doublet portal home, little more than
summer, despite the cool winter running environment, but with good coats and plump white flesh
that stuck out in hives and gathered cuffs of her nightgown and above
the slight neck jacket.

Upstairs Condújome a few sections, then a short passage, and, finally, I introduced a living
room with sunshine and cabinet, which, for the furniture and the books it contained, I assumed
from then he would dispatch. Sentámonos face to face in comfortable but not rich or plush armchairs,
a table between the two, full of papelejos, a letter opener, box of filled and vacant matches,
ashtray with cigarette butts, a flask of sole and a bag open surgery, and there was first the
usual vagueness whenever they visit, then smoked, while talking about the weather, so unusual
in its relative moderation, or the trial I was forming of the land, hitherto unknown to me,
then touch the point hygienic conditions of the valley, and this loophole came to light the
broken Celso my uncle's health, on which I was eager to speak with one mediquillo.

It's harder than it seems to show ingenuity, discretion, tact and, above all, art in trivialities
and pettiness that is the subject forced the beginning of the visits "in full" we all do, which
makes the whole world. It is easier to win a battle to enter on time and well toned in those
worthless symphonies of comedy that will represent later.

I have the courage to declare, as I'm concerned, I almost always I see in these trances, he
entered at the wrong time and tune, and the more I endeavor to amend the blunders, the worse I get.
But so help me comfort that I view it more blunders mine and to enormous inconvenience and
nonsense where fewer were expected for the quality refined actors. Well, precisely in the same
dangerous trance was where I started I foresee the 'quarry' of that young man, bare-chested
and almost child clothes, mediquillo simple of a hamlet buried in mountains, in the presence
of a smart Madrid, tired running the idle rich world, and certainly not by what I said or what
he did, but for the opposite: so shut up and so did not want to do, or better yet he knew so well
just shut up and sit still, and choose what I said and how to say. Everyone has a desire to be
a bit sharp, a little funny and a little naughty in front of people, hence the follies and inconveniences,
and almost anyone it happens to be sincere, which, good education and a dash of common sense,
have no guarantee of becoming "evil" there or anywhere, it is not loose at the time warranty
essentially communicative reach. For full sincerity, and at its highest degree, together with
a good understanding, was the first thing which I took to see in the mediquillo of Tablanca.

Speaking
of the illness of my uncle told me it was fatal. Was ... (And here laughing stopped to ask
forgiveness for the words she was going to drop) in a dilation heart ... asystolic state ...

-
In current Castilian - added with a gesture and a very natural and expressive gesture - is
the old machine whose body begins to decompose. It hindered the wheel of the heart could be impeded
as another major. For some of them had to start the inevitable ruin. When consumed it, when
the machine stops, it is not possible to calculate a date fixed either by me or by those who know
of these things I do: the same can stand inside six months at the
moment.

 And now he had got a horse.

"So you've bought Brede's place?" said Isak. "Going to work it yourself?"

"No, not for myself. I bought it for another man."

"Ho!"

"What d'you think; was it too much I gave for it?"

"Why, no. Tis good land for a man that'll work it as it should."

"I bought it for a brother of mine up in Helgeland."

"Ho!"

"Then I thought perhaps I'd half a mind to change with him, too."

"Change with him--would you?"

"And perhaps how Barbro she'd like it better that way."

"Ay, maybe," said Isak.

They walk on for a good way in silence. Then says Axel:

"They've been after me to take over that telegraph business."

"The telegraph? H'm. Ay, I heard that Brede he's given it up."

"H'm," says Axel, smiling. "'Tis not so much that way of it, but Brede that's been turned off."

"Ay, so," says Isak, and trying to find some excuse for Brede. "It takes a deal of time to
look after, no doubt."

"They gave him notice to the new year, if he didn't do better."

"H'm."

"You don't think it'd be worth my while to take it?"

Isak thought for a long while, and answered: "Ay, there's the money, true, but still...."

"They've offered me more."

"How much?"

"Double."

"Double? Why, then, I'd say you should think it over."

"But they've made the line a bit longer now. No, I don't know what's best to do--there's not
so much timber to sell here as you've got on yours, and I've need to buy more things for the
work that I've got now. And buying things needs money in 'cash, and I've not so much out of
the land and stock that there's much over to sell. Seems to me I'll have to try a year at the
telegraph to begin with...."

It did not occur to either of them that Brede might "do better" and keep the post himself.

When they reached Maaneland, Oline was there already, on her way down. Ay, a strange creature,
Oline, crawling about fat and round as a maggot, and over seventy years and all, but still
getting about. She sits drinking coffee in the hut, but seeing the men come up, all must give
way to that, and she comes out.

"Goddag, Axel, and welcome back from the sale. You'll not mind me looking in to see how you
and Barbro's getting on? And you're getting on finely, to see, and building a new house and
getting richer and richer! And you been buying sheep, Isak?"

"Ay," said Isak. "You know her, maybe?"

"If I know her? Nay...."

"With these flat ears, you can see."

"Flat ears? How d'you mean now? And what then? What I was going to say: Who bought Brede's
place, after all? I was just saying to Barbro here, who'd be your neighbours that way now?
said I. And Barbro, poor thing, she sits crying, as natural enough, to be sure; but the Almighty
that's decreed her a new home here at Maaneland ... Flat ears? I've seen a deal of sheep in
my day with flat ears and all. And I'll tell you, Isak, that machine of yours, 'twas almost
more than my old eyes could see nor understand. And what she'll have cost you I won't even
ask for I never could count so far. Axel, if you've seen it, you know what I mean; 'twas all
as it might be Elijah and his chariot of fire, and Heaven forgive me that I say it...."

When the hay was all in, Eleseus began making preparations for his return to town. He had written
to the engineer to say he was coming, but received the extraordinary reply that times were
bad, and they would have to economize; the office would have to dispense with Eleseus' services,
and the chief would do the work himself.

The deuce and all! But after all, what did a district surveyor want with an office staff? When
he had taken Eleseus on as a youngster, he had done so, no doubt, only to show himself as a
great man to these folks in the wilds; and if he had given him clothes and board till his confirmation,
he had got some return for it in the way of writing work, that was true. Now the boy was grown
up, and that made all the difference.

"But," said the engineer, "if you do come back I will do all I can to get you a place somewhere
else, though it may be a difficult matter, as there are more young men than are wanted looking
out for the same thing. With kind regards...."

Eleseus would go back to town, of course, there could be no question about that. Was he to
throw himself away? He wanted to get on in the world. And he said nothing to those at home
as to the altered state of affairs; it would be no use, and, to tell the truth, he felt a little
out of humour with the whole thing.

Anyhow, he said nothing. The life at Sellanraa was having its effect on him again; it was an
inglorious, commonplace life, but quiet and dulling to the sense, a dreamy life; there was
nothing for him to show off about, a looking-glass was a thing he had no use for. His town
life had wrought a schism in himself, and made him finer than the others, made him weaker;
he began indeed to feel that he must be homeless anywhere. He had come to like the smell of
tansy again--let that pass. But there was no sense at all in a peasant lad's standing listening
in the morning to the girls milking the cows and thinking thus: they're milking, listen now;
'tis almost by way of something wonderful to hear, a kind of song in nothing but little streams,
different from the brass bands in the town and the Salvation Army and the steamer sirens. Music
streaming into a pail....

It was not the way at Sellanraa to show one's feelings overmuch, and Eleseus dreaded the moment
when he would have to say good-bye. He was well equipped now; again his mother had given him
a stock of woven stuff for underclothes, and his father had commissioned some one to hand him
money as he went out of the door. Money--could Isak really spare such a thing as money? But
it was so, and no otherwise. Inger hinted that it would doubtless be the last time; for was
not Eleseus going to get on and rise in the world by himself?

"H'm," said Isak.

There was an atmosphere of solemnity, of stillness in the home; they had each had a boiled
egg at the last meal, and Sivert stood outside all ready to go down with his brother and carry
his things. It was for Eleseus to begin.

He began with Leopoldine. Well and good, she said good-bye in return, and managed it very well.
Likewise Jensine the servant-maid, she sat carding wool and answered good-bye--but both girls
stared at him, confound them! and all because he might perhaps be the least bit red about the
eyes. He shook hands with his mother, and she cried of course quite openly, never caring to
remember how he hated crying." Goo--ood-bye and bl--bless you!" she sobbed out. It was worst
with his father; worst of all with him. Oh, in every way; he was so toil-worn and so utterly
faithful; he had carried the children in his arms, had told them of the seagulls and other
birds and beasts, and the wonders of the field; it was not so long ago, a few years.... Father
stands by the glass window, then suddenly he turns round, grasps his son's hand, and says quickly
and peevishly: "Well, good-bye. There's the new horse getting loose," and he swings out of
the door and hurries away. Oh, but he had himself taken care to let the new horse loose a while
ago, and Sivert, the rascal, knew it too, as he stood outside watching his father, and smiling
to himself. And, anyway, the horse was only in the rowens.

Eleseus had got it over at last.

And then his mother must needs come out on the door-slab and hiccup again and say, "God bless
you!" and give him something. "Take this--and you're not to thank him, he says you're not to.
And don't forget to write; write often."

Two hundred Kroner.

Eleseus looked down the field: his father was furiously at work driving a tethering-peg into
the ground; he seemed to find it a difficult matter, for all that the ground was soft enough.

The brothers set off down the road; they came to Maaneland, and there stood Barbro in the doorway
and called to them to come up.

"You going away again, Eleseus? Nay, then, you must come in and take a cup of coffee at least."

They go into the hut, and Eleseus is no longer a prey to the pangs of love, nor wishful to
jump out of windows and take poison; nay, he spreads his light spring overcoat across his knees,
taking care to lay it so the silver plate is to be seen; then he wipes his hair with his handkerchief,
and observes delicately: "Beautiful day, isn't it--simply classic!"

Barbro too is self-possessed enough; she plays with a silver ring on one hand and a gold ring
on the other--ay, true enough, if she hasn't got a gold ring too--and she wears an apron reaching
from neck to feet, as if to say she is not spoiled as to her figure, whoever else may be that
way. And when the coffee is ready and her guests are drinking, she sews a little to begin with
on a white cloth, and then does a little crochet-work with a collar of some sort, and so with
all manner of maidenly tasks. Barbro is not put out by their visit, and all the better; they
can talk naturally, and Eleseus can be all on the surface again, young and witty as he pleases.

"What have you done with Axel?" asks Sivert.

"Oh, he's about the place somewhere," she answers, pulling herself up. "And so we'll not be
seeing you this way any more, I doubt?" she asks Eleseus.

"It's hardly probable," says he.

"Ay, 'tis no place for one as is used to the town. I only wish I could go along with you."

"You don't mean that, I know."

"Don't mean it? Oh, I've known what it is to live in town, and what it's like here; and I've
been in a bigger town than you, for that matter--and shouldn't I miss it?"

"I didn't mean that way," says Eleseus hastily. "After you being in Bergen itself and all."
Strange, how impatient she was, after all!

"I only know that if it wasn't for having the papers to read, I'd not stay here another day,"
says she.

"But what about Axel, then, and all the rest?--'twas that I was thinking."

"As for Axel, 'tis no business of mine. And what about yourself--I doubt there'll be some one
waiting for you in town?"

And at that, Eleseus couldn't help showing off a little and closing his eyes and turning over
the morsel on his tongue: perhaps true enough there was some one waiting for him in town. Oh,
but he could have managed this ever so differently, snapped at the chance, if it hadn't been
for Sivert sitting there! As it was, he could only say: "Don't talk such nonsense!"

"Ho," said she--and indeed she was shamefully ill-humoured today--"nonsense, indeed! Well,
what can you expect of folk at Maaneland? we're not so great and fine as you--no."

Oh, she could go to the devil, what did Eleseus care; her face was visibly dirty, and her condition
plain enough now even to his innocent eyes.

"Can't you play a bit on the guitar?" he asked.

"No," answered Barbro shortly. "What I was going to say: Sivert, couldn't you come and help
Axel a bit with the new house a day or so? If you could begin tomorrow, say, when you come
back from the village?"

Sivert thought for a moment. "Ay, maybe. But I've no clothes."

"I could run up and fetch your working clothes this evening, so they'll be here when you get back."

"Ay," said Sivert, "if you could."

And Barbro unnecessarily eager now: "Oh, if only you would come! Here's summer nearly gone
already, and the house that should be up and roofed before the autumn rains. Axel, he's been
going to ask you a many times before, but he couldn't, somehow. Oh, you'd be helping us no end!"

"I'll help as well as I can," said Sivert.

And that was settled.

But now it was Eleseus' turn to be offended. He can see well enough that it's clever of Barbro
and all that, to look out and manage to her own advantage and Axel's too, and get help for
the building and save the house, but the whole thing is a little too plain; after all, she
is not mistress of the place as yet, and it's not so long since he himself had kissed her--the
creature! Was there never an atom of shame in her at all?

"Ay," said Eleseus, then suddenly: "I'll come back again in time and be a godfather when you're
ready."

She sent him a glance, and answered in great offence: "Godfather, indeed! And who's talking
nonsense now, I'd like to know? 'Twill be time enough for you when I send word I'm looking
out for godfathers." And what could Eleseus do then but laugh foolishly and wish himself out
of the place!

"Here's thanks!" says Sivert, and gets up from his seat to go.

"Here's thanks!" says Eleseus also; but he did not rise nor bow as a man should do in saying
thanks for a cup of coffee; not he, indeed--he would see her at the devil for a bitter-tongued
lump of ugliness.

"Let me look," said Barbro. "Oh yes; the young men I stayed with in town, they had silver plates
on their overcoats too, much bigger than this," said she. "Well, then, you'll come in on your
way back, Sivert, and stay the night? I'll get your clothes all right."

And that was good-bye to Barbro.

The brothers went on again. Eleseus was not distressed in any way in the matter of Barbro;
she could go to the devil--and, besides, he had two big bank-notes in his pocket! The brothers
took care not to touch on any mournful things, such as the strange way father had said good-bye,
or how mother had cried. They went a long way round to avoid being stopped at Breidablik, and
made a jest of that little ruse. But when they came down in sight of the village, and it was
time for Sivert to turn homeward again, they both behaved in somewhat unmanly fashion. Sivert,
for instance, was weak enough to say: "I doubt it'll be a bit lonely, maybe, when you're gone."

And at that Eleseus must fall to whistling, and looking to his shoes, and finding a splinter
in his finger, and searching after something in his pockets; some papers, he said, couldn't
make out ... Oh, 'twould have gone ill with them if Sivert had not saved things at the last.
"Touch!" he cried suddenly, and touched his brother on the shoulder and sprang away. It was
better after that; they shouted a word of farewell or so from a distance, and went each on
his own way.

Fate or chance--whatever it might be. Eleseus went back, after all, to the town, to a post
that was no longer open for him, but that same occasion led to Axel Ström's getting a man to
work for him.

They began work on the house the 21st of August, and ten days later the place was roofed in.
Oh, 'twas no great house to see, and nothing much in the way of height; the best that could
be said of it was that it was a wooden house and no turf hut. But, at least, it meant that
the animals would have a splendid shelter for the winter in what had been a house for human
beings up to then.

Chapter II

On the 3rd of September Barbro was not to be found. 'Twas not that she was altogether lost,
but she was not up at the house.

Axel was doing carpenter's work the best he could; he was trying hard to get a glass window
and a door set in the new house, and it was taking all his time to do it. But being long past
noon, and no word said about coming in to dinner, he went in himself into the hut. No one there.
He got himself some food, and looked about while he was eating. All Barbro's clothes were hanging
there; she must be out somewhere, that was all. He went back to his work on the new building,
and kept at it for a while, then he looked in at the hut again--no, nobody there. She must
be lying down somewhere. He sets out to find her.

"Barbro!" he calls. No. He looks all round the houses, goes across to some bushes on the edge
of his land, searches about a long while, maybe an hour, calls out--no. He comes on her a long
way off, lying on the ground, hidden by some bushes; the stream flows by at her feet, she is
barefoot and bareheaded, and wet all up the back as well.

"You lying here?" says he. "Why didn't you answer?"

"I couldn't," she answers, and her voice so hoarse he can scarcely hear.

"What--you been in the water?"

"Yes. Slipped down--oh!"

"Is it hurting you now?"

"Ay--it's over now."

"Is it over?" says he.

"Yes. Help me to get home."

"Where's ...?"

"What?"

"Wasn't it--the child?"

"No. Twas dead."

"Was it dead?"

"Yes."

Axel is slow of mind, and slow to act. He stands there still. "Where is it, then?" he asks.

"You've no call to know," says she. "Help me back home. Twas dead. I can walk if you hold my
arm a bit."

Axel carries her back home and sets her in a chair, the water dripping off her. "Was it dead?"
he asks.

"I told you 'twas so," she answers.

"What have you done with it, then?"

"D'you want to smell it? D'you get anything to eat while I was away?"

"But what did you want down by the water?"

"By the water? I was looking for juniper twigs."

"Juniper twigs? What for?"

"For cleaning the buckets."

"There's none that way," says he.

"You get on with your work," says she hoarsely, and all impatient. "What was I doing by the
water? I wanted twigs for a broom. Have you had anything to eat, d'you hear?"

"Eat?" says he. "How d'you feel now?"

"Tis well enough."

"I doubt I'd better fetch the doctor up."

"You'd better try!" says she, getting up and looking about for dry clothes to put on. "As if
you'd no better to do with your money!"

Axel goes back to his work, and 'tis but little he gets done, but makes a bit of noise with
planing and hammering, so she can hear. At last he gets the window wedged in, and stops the
frame all round with moss.

That evening Barbro seems not to care for her food, but goes about, all the same, busy with
this and that--goes to the cowshed at milking-time, only stepping a thought more carefully
over the door-sill. She went to bed in the hayshed as usual. Axel went in twice to look at
her, and she was sleeping soundly. She had a good night.

Next morning she was almost as usual, only so hoarse she could hardly speak at all, and with
a long stocking wound round her throat. They could not talk together. Days passed, and the
matter was no longer new; other things cropped up, and it slipped aside. The new house ought
by rights to have been left a while for the timber to work together and make it tight and sound,
but there was no time for that now; they had to get it into use at once, and the new cowshed
ready. When it was done, and they had moved in, they took up the potatoes, and after that there
was the corn to get in. Life was the same as ever.

But there were signs enough, great or small, that things were different now at Maaneland. Barbro
felt herself no more at home there now than any other serving-maid; no more bound to the place.
Axel could see that his hold on her had loosened with the death of the child. He had thought
to himself so confidently: wait till the child comes! But the child had come and gone. And
at last Barbro even took off the rings from her fingers, and wore neither.

"What's that mean?" he asked.

"What's it mean?" she said, tossing her head.

But it could hardly mean anything else than faithlessness and desertion on her part.

And he had found the little body by the stream. Not that he had made any search for it, to
speak of; he knew pretty closely where it must be, but he had left the matter idly as it was.
Then chance willed it so that he should not forget it altogether; birds began to hover above
the spot, shrieking grouse and crows, and then, later on, a pair of eagles at a giddy height
above. To begin with, only a single bird had seen something buried there, and, being unable
to keep a secret like a human being, had shouted it abroad. Then Axel roused himself from his
apathy, and waited for an opportunity to steal out to the spot. He found the thing under a
heap of moss and twigs, kept down by flat stones, and wrapped in a cloth, in a piece of rag.
With a feeling of curiosity and horror he drew the cloth a little aside--eyes closed, dark
hair, a boy, and the legs crossed--that was all he saw. The cloth had been wet, but was drying
now; the whole thing looked like a half-wrung bundle of washing.

He could not leave it there in the light of day, and in his heart, perhaps, he feared some
ill to himself or to the place. He ran home for a spade and dug the grave deeper; but, being
so near the stream, the water came in, and he had to shift it farther up the bank. As he worked,
his fear lest Barbro should come and find him disappeared; he grew defiant and thoroughly bitter.
Let her come, and he would make her wrap up the body neatly and decently after her, stillborn
or no! He saw well enough all he had lost by the death of the child; how he was faced now with
the prospect of being left without help again on the place--and that, moreover, with three
times the stock to care for he had had at first. Let her come--he did not care! But Barbro--it
might be she had some inkling of what he was at; anyway, she did not come, and Axel had to
wrap up the body himself as best he could and move it to the new grave. He laid down the turf
again on top, just as before, hiding it all. When he had done, there was nothing to be seen
but a little green mound among the bushes.

He found Barbro outside the house as he came home.

"Where you been?" she asked.

The bitterness must have left him, for he only said: "Nowhere. Where've you been?"

Oh, but the look on his face must have warned her; she said no more, but went into the house.

He followed her.

"Look here," he said, and asked her straight out, "What d'you mean by taking off those rings?"

Barbro, maybe, found it best to give way a little; she laughed, and answered: "Well, you are
serious today--I can't help laughing! 

Gonzalo Innocent! Long before he would give a full account of this inclination, the village
whole knew. Nothing can be hidden, especially in what touches sex relationships sex, in the
eyes of the gossips dowsers a small town neighborhood.

"I'm not complaining," answered he. "And you've only to be as you were before, all the time
before, when you first came. That's all I mean."

'Tis not so easy to be always together and always agree.

Axel went on: "When I bought that place after your father, 'twas thinking maybe you'd like
better to be there, and so we could shift. What d'you think?"

Ho, there he gave himself away; he was afraid of losing her and being left without help, with
none to look to the place and the animals again--she knew! "Ay, you've said that before," she
answered coldly.

"Ay, so I have; but I've got no answer."

"Answer?" said she. "Oh, I'm sick of hearing it."

Axel might fairly consider he had been lenient; he had let Brede and his family stay on at
Breidablik, and for all that he had bought the good crop with the place, he had carted home
no more than a few loads of hay, and left the potatoes to them. It was all unreasonable of
Barbro to be contrary now; but she paid no heed to that, and asked indignantly: "So you'd have
us move down to Breidablik now, and turn out a whole family to be homeless?"

Had he heard aright? He sat for a moment staring and gaping, cleared his throat as if to answer
thoroughly, but it came to nothing; he only asked: "Aren't they going to the village, then?"

"Don't ask me," said Barbro. "Or perhaps you've got a place for them to be there?"

Axel was still loth to quarrel with her, but he could not help letting her see he was surprised
at her, just a little surprised. "You're getting more and more cross and hard," said he, "though
you don't mean any harm, belike."

"I mean every word I say," she answered. "And why couldn't you have let my folks come up here?--answer
me that! Then I'd have had mother to help me a bit. But you think, perhaps, I've so little
to do, I've no need of help?"

There was some sense in this, of course, but also much that was unreasonable altogether. If
Bredes had come, they would have had to live in the hut, and Axel would have had no place for
his beasts--as badly off as before. What was the woman getting at?--had she neither sense nor
wit in her head?

"Look here," said he, "you'd better have a servant-girl to help."

"Now--with the winter coming on and less to do than ever? No, you should have thought of that
when I needed it."

Here, again, she was right in a way; when she had been heavy and ailing--that was the time
to talk of help. But then Barbro herself had done her work all the time as if nothing were
the matter; she had been quick and clever as usual, did all that had to be done, and had never
spoken a word about getting help.

"Well, I can't make it out, anyway," said he hopelessly.

Silence.

Barbro asked: "What's this about you taking over the telegraph after father?"

"What? Who said a word about that?"

"Well, they say it's to be."

"Why," said Axel, "it may come to something; I'll not say no."

"Ho!"

But why d'you ask?"

"Nothing," said Barbro; "only that you've turned my father out of house and home, and now you're
taking the bread out of his mouth."

Silence.

Oh, but that was the end of Axel's patience. "I'll tell you this," he cried, "you're not worth
all I've done for you and yours!"

"Ho!" said Barbro.

"No!" said he, striking his fist on the table. And then he got up.

"You can't frighten me, so don't think," whimpered Barbro, and moved over nearer the wall.

"Frighten you?" he said again, and sniffed scornfully. "I'm going to speak out now in earnest.
What about that child? Did you drown it?"

"Drown it?"

"Ay. It's been in the water."

"Ho, so you've seen it? You've been--" "sniffing at it," she was going to say, but dared not;
Axel was not to be played with just then, by his looks. "You've been and found it?"

"I saw it had been in the water."

"Ay," said she, "and well it might. 'Twas born in the water; I slipped in and couldn't get
up again."

"Slipped, did you?"

"Yes, and the child came before I could get out."

"H'm," said he. "But you took the bit of wrapping with you before you went out--was that in
case you should happen to fall in?"

"Wrapping?" said she again.

"A bit of white rag--one of my shirts you'd cut half across."

"Ay," said Barbro, "'twas a bit of rag I took with me to carry back juniper twigs in."

"Juniper twigs?"

"Yes. Didn't I tell you that was what I'd been for?"

"Ay, so you said. Or else it was twigs for a broom."

"Well, no matter what it was...."

It was an open quarrel between them this time. But even that died away after a time, and all
was well again. That is to say, not well exactly--no, but passable. Barbro was careful and
more submissive; she knew there was danger. But that way, life at Maaneland grew even more
forced and intolerable--no frankness, no joy between them, always on guard. It could not last
long, but as long as it lasted at all, Axel was forced to be content. He had got this girl
on the place, and had wanted her for himself and had her, tied his life to her; it was not
an easy matter to alter all that. Barbro knew everything about the place: where pots and vessels
stood, when cows and goats were to bear, if the winter feed would be short or plenty, how much
milk was for cheese and how much for food--a stranger would know nothing of it all, and even
so, a stranger was perhaps not to be had.

Oh, but Axel had thought many a time of getting rid of Barbro and taking another girl to help;
she was a wicked thing at times, and he was almost afraid of her. Even when he had the misfortune
to get on well with her he drew back at times in fear of her strange cruelty and brutal ways;
but she was pretty to look at, and could be sweet at times, and bury him deep in her arms.
So it had been--but that was over now. No, thank you--Barbro was not going to have all that
miserable business over again. But it was not so easy to change.... "Let's get married at once,
then," said Axel, urging her.

"At once?" said she. "Nay; I must go into town first about my teeth, they're all but gone as
it is."

So there was nothing to do but go on as before. And Barbro had no real wages now, but far beyond
what her wages would have been; and every time she asked for money and he gave it, she thanked
him as for a gift. But for all that Axel could not make out where the money went--what could
she want money for out in the wilds? Was she hoarding for herself? But what on earth was there
to save and save for, all the year round?

There was much that Axel could not make out. Hadn't he given her a ring--ay, a real gold ring?
And they had got on well together, too, after that last gift; but it could not last for ever,
far from it; and he could not go on buying rings to give her. In a word--did she mean to throw
him over? Women were strange creatures! Was there a man with a good farm and a well-stocked
place of his own waiting for her somewhere else? Axel could at times go so far as to strike
his fist on the table in his impatience with women and their foolish humours.

A strange thing, Barbro seemed to have nothing really in her head but the thought of Bergen
and town life. Well and good. But if so, why had she come back at all, confound her! A telegram
from her father would never have moved her a step in itself; she must have had some other reason.
And now here she was, eternally discontented from morning to night, year after year. All these
wooden buckets, instead of proper iron pails; cooking-pots instead of saucepans; the everlasting
milking instead of a little walk round to the dairy; heavy boots, yellow soap, a pillow stuffed
with hay; no military bands, no people. Living like this....

They had many little bouts after the one big quarrel. Ho, time and again they were at it! "You
say no more about it, if you're wise," said Barbro. "And not to speak of what you've done about
father and all."

Said Axel: "Well, what have I done?"

"Oh, you know well enough," said she. "But for all that you'll not be Inspector, anyway."

"Ho!"

"No, that you won't. I'll believe it when I see it."

"Meaning I'm not good enough, perhaps?"

"Oh, good enough and good enough.... Anyway, you can't read nor write, and never so much as
take a newspaper to look at."

"As to that," said he, "I can read and write all I've any need for. But as for you, with all
your gabble and talk ... I'm sick of it."

"Well, then, here's that to begin with," said she, and threw down the silver ring on the table.

"Ho!" said he, after a while. "And what about the other?"

"Oh, if you want your rings back that you gave me, you can have them," said she, trying to
pull off the gold one.

"You can be as nasty as you please," said he. "If you think I care...." And he went out.

And naturally enough, soon after, Barbro was wearing both her rings again.

In time, too, she ceased to care at all for what he said about the death of the child. She
simply sniffed and tossed her head. Not that she ever confessed anything, but only said: "Well,
and suppose I had drowned it? You live here in the wilds and what do you know of things elsewhere?"
Once when they were talking of this, she seemed to be trying to get him to see he was taking
it all too seriously; she herself thought no more of getting rid of a child than the matter
was worth. She knew two girls in Bergen who had done it; but one of them had got two months'
imprisonment because she had been a fool and hadn't killed it, but only left it out to freeze
to death; and the other had been acquitted. "No," said Barbro, "the law's not so cruel hard
now as it used to be. And besides, it's not always it gets found out." There was a girl in
Bergen at the hotel who had killed two children; she was from Christiania, and wore a hat--a
hat with feathers in. They had given her three months for the second one, but the first was
never discovered, said Barbro.

Axel listened to all this and grew more than ever afraid of her. He tried to understand, to
make out things a little in the darkness, but she was right after all; he took these things
too seriously in his way. With all her vulgar depravity, Barbro was not worth a single earnest
thought. Infanticide meant nothing to her, there was nothing extraordinary in the killing of
a child; she thought of it only with the looseness and moral nastiness that was to be expected
of a servant-girl. It was plain, too, in the days that followed; never an hour did she give
herself up to thought; she was easy and natural as ever, unalterably shallow and foolish, unalterably
a servant-girl. "I must go and have my teeth seen to," she said. "And I want one of those new
cloaks." There was a new kind of half-length coat that had been fashionable for some years
past, and Barbro must have one.

And when she took it all so naturally, what could Axel do but give way? And it was not always
that he had any real suspicion of her; she herself had never confessed, had indeed denied time
and again, but without indignation, without insistence, as a trifle, as a servant-girl would
have denied having broken a dish, whether she had done so or not. But after a couple of weeks,
Axel could stand it no longer; he stopped dead one day in the middle of the room and saw it
all as by a revelation. Great Heaven! every one must have seen how it was with her, heavy with
child and plain to see--and now with her figure as before--but where was the child? Suppose
others came to look for it? They would be asking about it sooner or later. And if there had
been nothing wrong, it would have been far better to have had the child buried decently in
the churchyard. Not there in the bushes, there on his land....

"No. 'Twould only have made a fuss," said Barbro. "They'd have cut it open and had an inquest,
and all that. I didn't want to be bothered."

"If only it mayn't come to worse later on," said he.

Barbro asked easily: "What's there to worry about? Let it lie where it is." Ay, she smiled,
and asked: "Are you afraid it'll come after you? Leave all that nonsense, and say no more about
it."

"Ay, well...."

"Did I drown the child? I've told you it drowned itself in the water when I slipped in. I never
heard such things as you get in your head. And, anyway, it would never be found out," said she.

"'Twas found out all the same with Inger at Sellanraa," said Axel.

Barbro thought for a moment. "Well, I don't care," said she. "The law's all different now,
and if you read the papers you'd know. There's heaps that have done it, and don't get anything
to speak of." Barbro sets out to explain it, to teach him, as it were--getting him to take
a broad view of things. It was not for nothing she herself had been out in the world and seen
and heard and learned so much; now she could sit here and be more than a match for him. She
had three main arguments which she was continually advancing: In the first place, she had not
done it. In the second, it was not such a terrible thing, after all, if she had done it. But
in the third place, it would never be found out.

"Everything gets found out, seems to me," he objected.

"Not by a long way," she answered. And whether to astonish him or to encourage him, or perhaps
from sheer vanity and as something to boast of, all of a sudden she threw a bombshell. Thus:
"I've done something myself that never got found out."

"You?" said he, all unbelieving. "What have you done?"

"What have I done? Killed something."

She had not meant, perhaps, to go so far, but she had to go on now; there he was, staring at
her. Oh, and it was not grand, indomitable boldness even; it was mere bravado, vulgar showing
off; she wanted to look big herself, and silence him. "You don't believe me?" she cried. "D'you
remember that in the paper about the body of a child found in the harbour? 'Twas me that did it."

"What?" said he.

"Body of a child. You never remember anything. We read about it in the paper you brought up."

After a moment he burst out: "You must be out of your senses!"

But his confusion seemed to incite her more, to give her a sort of artificial strength; she
could even give the details. "I had it in my box--it was dead then, of course--I did that as
soon as it was born. And when we got out into the harbour, I threw it overboard."

Axel sat dark and silent, but she went on. It was a long time back now, many years, the time
she had first come to Maaneland. So, there, he could see 'twas not everything was found out,
not by a long way! What would things be like if everything folk did got out? What about all
the married people in the towns and the things they did? They killed their children before
they were born--there were doctors who managed that. They didn't want more than one, or at
most two children, and so they'd get in a doctor to get rid of it before it come. Ho, Axel
need not think that was such a great affair out in the world!

"Ho!" said Axel. "Then I suppose you did get rid of the last one too, that way?"

"No, I didn't," she answered carelessly as could be, "for I dropped it," she said. But even
then she must go on again about it being nothing so terrible if she had. She was plainly accustomed
to think of the thing as natural and easy; it did not affect her now. The first time, perhaps,
it might have been a little uncomfortable, something of an awkward feeling about it, to kill
the child; but the second? She could think of it now with a sort of historic sense: as a thing
that had been done, and could be done.

Axel went out of the house heavy in mind. He was not so much concerned over the fact that Barbro
had killed her first child--that was nothing to do with himself. That she had had a child at
all before she came to him was nothing much either; she was no innocent, and had never pretended
to be so, far from it. She had made no secret of her knowledge, and had taught him many things
in the dark. Well and good. But this last child--he would not willingly have lost it; a tiny
boy, a little white creature wrapped up in a rag. If she were guilty of that child's death,
then she had injured him, Axel--broken a tie that he prized, and that could not be replaced.
But it might be that he wronged her, after all: that she had slipped in the water by accident.
But then the wrapping--the bit of shirt she had taken with her....

Meantime, the hours passed; dinner-time came, and evening. And when Axel had gone to bed, and
had lain staring into the dark long enough, he fell asleep at last, and slept till morning.
And then came a new day, and after that day other days....

Barbro was the same as ever. She knew so much of the world, and could take lightly many little
trifles that were terrible and serious things for folk in the wilds. It was well in a way;
she was clever enough for both of them, careless enough for both. And she did not go about
like a terrible creature herself. Barbro a monster? Not in the least. She was a pretty girl,
with blue eyes, a slightly turned-up nose, and quick-handed at her work. She was utterly sick
and tired of the farm and the wooden vessels, that took such a lot of cleaning; sick and tired,
perhaps, of Axel and all, of the out-of-the-way life she led. But she never killed any of the
cattle, and Axel never found her standing over him with uplifted knife in the middle of the night.

Only once it happened that they came to talk again of the body in the wood. Axel still insisted
that it ought to have been buried in the churchyard, in consecrated ground; but she maintained
as before that her way was good enough. And then she said something which showed that she was
reasoned after her fashion--ho, was sharp enough, could see beyond the tip of her nose; could
think, with the pitiful little brain of a savage.

"If it gets found out I'll go and talk to the Lensmand; I've been in service with him. And
Fru Heyerdahl, she'll put in a word for me, I know. It's not every one that can get folk to
help them like that, and they get off all the same. And then, besides, there's father, that
knows all the great folks, and been assistant himself, and all the rest."

But Axel only shook his head.

"Well, what's wrong with that?"

"D'you think your father'd ever be able to do anything?"

"A lot you know about it!" she cried angrily. "After you've ruined him and all, taking his
farm and the bread out of his mouth."

She seemed to have a sort of idea herself that her father's reputation had suffered of late,
and that she might lose by it. And what could Axel say to that? Nothing. He was a man of peace,
a worker.

Chapter III

That winter, Axel was left to himself again at Maaneland. Barbro was gone. Ay, that was the
end of it.

Her journey to town would not take long, she said; 'twas not like going to Bergen; but she
wasn't going to stay on here losing one tooth after another, till she'd a mouth like a calf.
"What'll it cost?" said Axel.

"How do I know?" said she. "But, anyway, it won't cost you anything. I'll earn the money myself."

She had explained, too, why it was best for her to go just then; there were but two cows to
milk, and in the spring there would be two more, besides all the goats with kids, and the busy
season, and work enough right on till June.

"Do as you please," said Axel.

It was not going to cost him anything, not at all. But she must have some money to start with,
just a little; there was the journey, and the dentist to pay, and besides, she must have one
of the new cloaks and some other little things. But, of course, if he didn't care to....

"You've had money enough up to now," said he.

"H'm," said she. "Anyway, it's all gone."

"Haven't you put by anything?"

"Put by anything? You can look in my box it you like. I never put by anything in Bergen, and.
I got more wages then."

"I've no money to give you," said he.

He had but little faith in her ever coming back at all, and she had plagued him so much with
her humours this way and that; he had grown indifferent at last. And though he gave her money
in the end, it was nothing to speak of; but he took no notice when she packed away an enormous
hoard of food to take with her, and he drove her down himself, with her box, to the village
to meet the steamer.

And that was done.

He could have managed alone on the place, he had learned to do so before, but it was awkward
with the cattle; if ever he had to leave home, there was none to look to them. The storekeeper
in the village had urged him to get Oline to come for the winter, she had been at Sellanraa
for years before; she was old now, of course, but fit and able to work. And Axel did send for
Oline, but she had not come, and sent no word.

Meantime, he worked in the forest, threshed out his little crop of corn, and tended his cattle.
It was a quiet and lonely life. Now and again Sivert from Sellanraa would drive past on his
way to and from the village, taking down loads of wood, or hides, or farm produce, but rarely
bringing anything up home; there was little they needed to buy now at Sellanraa.

Now and again, too, Brede Olsen would come trudging along, more frequently of late--whatever
he might be after. It looked as if he were trying to make himself indispensable to the telegraph
people in the little time that remained, so as to keep his job. He never came in to see Axel
now that Barbro was gone, but went straight by--a piece of high-and-mightiness ill fitted to
his state, seeing that he was still living on at Breidablik and had not moved. One day, when
he was passing without so much as a word of greeting, Axel stopped him, and asked when he had
thought of getting out of the place.

"What about Barbro, and the way she left you?" asked Brede in return. And one word led to another:
"You sent her off with neither help nor means, 'twas a near thing but she never got to Bergen
at all."

"Ho! So she's in Bergen, is she?"

"Ay, got there at last, so she writes, but little thanks to you."

"I'll have you out of Breidablik, and that sharp," said Axel.

"Ay, if you'd be so kind," said the other, with a sneer. "But we'll be going of ourselves at
the new year," he said, and went on his way.

So Barbro was gone to Bergen--ay, 'twas as Axel had thought. He did not take it to heart. Take
it to heart? No, indeed; he was well rid of her. But for all that, he had hoped a little until
then that she might come back. 'Twas all unreasonable, but somehow he had come to care overmuch
for the girl--ay, for that devil of a girl. She had her sweet moments, unforgettable moments,
and it was on purpose to hinder her from running off to Bergen that he had given her so little
money for the journey. And now she had gone there after all. A few of her clothes still hung
in the house, and there was a straw hat with birds' wings on, wrapped up in a paper, in the
loft, but she did not come to fetch them. Eyah, maybe he took it to heart a little, only a
little. And as if to jeer at him, as a mighty jest in his trouble, came the paper he had ordered
for her every week, and it would not stop now till the new year.

Well, well, there were other things to think about. He must be a man.

Next spring he would have to put up a shed against the north wall of the house; the timber
would have to be felled that winter, and the planks cut. Axel had no timber to speak of, not
growing close, but there were some heavy firs scattered about here and there on the outskirts
of his land, and he marked out those on the side toward Sellanraa, to have the shortest way
to cart his timber up to the sawmill.

And so one morning he gives the beasts an extra feed, to last them till the evening, shuts
all doors behind him, and goes out felling trees. Besides his ax and a basket of food, he carried
a rake to clear the snow away. The weather was mild, there had been a heavy snowstorm the day
before, but now it had stopped. He follows the telegraph line all the way to the spot, then
pulls off his jacket and falls to work. As the trees are felled, he strips off the branches,
leaving the clean trunks, and piles up the small wood in heaps.

Brede Olsen comes by on his way up--trouble on the line, no doubt, after yesterday's storm.
Or maybe Brede was out on no particular errand, but simply from pure zeal--ho, he was mighty
keen on his duty of late, was Brede! The two men did not speak, did not so much as lift a hand
in greeting.

The weather is changing again, the wind is getting up. Axel marks it, but goes on with his
work. It is long past noon, and he has not yet eaten. Then, felling a big fir, he manages to
get in the way of its fall, and is thrown to the ground. He hardly knew how it happened--but
there it was. A big fir swaying from the root: a man will have it fall one way, the storm says
another--and the storm it is that wins. He might have got clear after all, but the lie of the
ground was hidden by snow. Axel made a false step, lost his footing, and came down in a cleft
of rock, astride of a boulder, pinned down by the weight of a tree.

Well, and what then? He might still have got clear, but, as it chanced, he had fallen awkwardly
as could be--no bones broken, as far as he could tell, but twisted somehow, and unable to drag
himself out. After a while he gets one hand free, supporting himself on the other, but the
ax is beyond his reach. He looks round, takes thought, as any other beast in a trap would do;
looks round and takes thought and tries to work his way out from under the tree. Brede must
be coming by on his way down before long, he thinks to himself, and gives himself a breathing-space.

He does not let it trouble him much at first, it was only annoying to lose time at his work;
there is no thought in his mind of being in danger, let alone in peril of his life. True, he
can feel the hand that supports him growing numbed and dead, his foot in the cleft growing
cold and helpless too; but no matter, Brede must be here soon.

Brede did not come.

The storm increased, Axel felt the snow driving full in his face. Ho, 'tis coming down in earnest
now, says he to himself, still never troubling much about it all--ay, 'tis as if he blinks
at himself through the snow, to look out, for now things are beginning in earnest! After a
long while he gives a single shout. The sound would hardly carry far in the gale, but it would
be upward along the line, towards Brede. Axel lies there with all sorts of vain and useless
thoughts in his head: if only he could reach the ax, and perhaps cut his way out! If he could
only get his hand up--it was pressing against something sharp, an edge of stone, and the stone
was eating its way quietly and politely into the back of his hand. Anyhow, if only that infernal
stone itself had not been there--but no one has ever yet heard tell of such a touching act
of kindness on the part of a stone.

Getting late now, getting later, the snow drifting thick; Axel is getting snowed up himself.
The snow packs all innocently, all unknowing, about his face, melting at first, till the flesh
grows cold, and then it melts no longer. Ay, now 'tis beginning in earnest!

He gives two great shouts, and listens.

His ax is getting snowed up now; he can see but a bit of the haft. Over there is his basket
of food, hung on a tree--if he could but have reached it, and had a feed--oh, huge big mouthfuls!
And then he goes one step farther in his demands, and asks yet more: if he only had his coat
on--it is getting cold. He gives another swinging shout....

And there is Brede. Stopped in his tracks, standing still, looking toward the man as he calls;
he stands there but for a moment, glancing that way, as if to see what is amiss.

"Reach me the ax here, will you?" calls Axel, a trifle weakly.

Brede looks away hurriedly, fully aware now of what is the matter; he glances up at the telegraph
wires and seems to be whistling. What can he mean by that?

"Here, reach me the ax, can't you?" cries Axel louder. "I'm pinned here under a tree."

But Brede is strangely full of zeal in his duty now, he keeps on looking at the telegraph wires,
and whistling all the time. Note, also, that he seems to be whistling gaily, as it were vengefully.

"Ho, so you're going to murder me--won't even reach me the ax?" cries Axel. And at that it
seems as if there is trouble farther down the line, which Brede must see to without delay.
He moves off, and is lost to sight in the driving snow.

Ho--well and good! But after that, well, it would just serve things generally right if Axel
were to manage by himself after all, and get at the ax without help from any one. He strains
all the muscles of his chest to lift the huge weight that bears him down; the tree moves, he
can feel it shake, but all he gains by that is a shower of snow. And after a few more tries,
he gives up.

Growing dark now. Brede is gone--but how far can he have got? Axel shouts again, and lets off
a few straightforward words into the bargain. "Leave me here to die, would you, like a murderer?"
he cries. "Have ye no soul nor thought of what's to come? And the worth of a cow, no less,
to lend a helping hand. But 'tis a dog you are and ever were, Brede, and leaving a man to die.
Ho, but there's more shall know of this, never fear, and true as I'm lying here. And won't
even come and reach me that ax...."

Silence. Axel strains away at the tree once more, lifts it a little, and brings down a new
shower of snow. Gives it up again and sighs; he is worn out now, and getting sleepy. There's
the cattle at home, they'll be standing in the hut and bellowing for food, not a bite nor a
drop since the morning; no Barbro to look to them now--no. Barbro's gone, run off and gone,
and taken both her rings, gold and silver, taken them with her. Getting dark now, ay, evening,
night; well, well.... But there's the cold to reckon with too; his beard is freezing, soon
his eyes will freeze too as well; ay, if he had but his jacket from the tree there ... and
now his leg--surely, it can't be that--but all the same one leg feels dead now up to the hip.
"All in God's hands," he says to himself--seems like he can talk all godly and pious when he
will. Getting dark, ay; but a man can die without the light of a lamp. He feels all soft and
good now, and of sheer humility he smiles, foolishly and kindly, at the snowstorm round; 'tis
God's own snow, an innocent thing! Ay, he might even forgive Brede, and never say a word....

He is very quiet now, and growing ever more sleepy, ay, as if some poison were numbing him
all over. And there is too much whiteness to look at every way; woods and lands, great wings,
white veils, white sails; white, white ... what can it be? Nonsense, man! And he knows well
enough it is but snow; he is lying out in the snow; 'tis no fancy that he is lying there, pinned
down beneath a tree.

He shouts again at hazard, throws out a roar; there in the snow a man's great hairy chest swelling
to a roar, bellowing so it could be heard right down at the hut, again and again. "Ay, and
a swine and a monster," he cries after Brede again; "never a thought of how you're leaving
me to lie and be perished. And couldn't even reach me the ax, that was all I asked; and call
yourself a man, or a beast of the field? Ay, well then, go your way, and good luck to you if
that's your will and thought to go...."

He must have slept; he is all stiff and lifeless now, but his eyes are open; set in ice, but
open, he cannot wing nor blink--has he been sleeping with open eyes? Dropped off for a second
maybe, or for an hour, God knows, but here's Oline standing before him. He can hear her asking:
"In Jesu name, say if there's life in you!" And asking him if it is him lying there, and if
he's lost his wits or no.

Always something of a jackal about Oline; sniffing and scenting out, always on the spot where
there was trouble; ay, she would nose it out. And how could she ever have managed through life
at all if it hadn't been that same way? Axel's word had reached her, and for all her seventy
years she had crossed the field to come. Snowed up at Sellanraa in the storm of the day before,
and then on again to Maaneland; not a soul on the place; fed the cattle, stood in the doorway
listening, milked the cows at milking-time, listening again; what could it be?...

And then a cry comes down, and she nods; Axel, maybe, or maybe the hill-folk, devils--anyway,
something to sniff and scent and find--to worm out the meaning of it all, the wisdom of the
Almighty with the dark and the forest in the hollow of His hand--and He would never harm Oline,
that was not worthy to unloose the latchet of His shoes....

And there she stands.

The ax? Oline digs down and down in the snow, and finds no ax. Manage without, then--and she
strains at the tree to lift it where it lies, but with no more strength than a child; she can
but shake the branches here and there. Tries for the ax again--it is all dark, but she digs
with hands and feet. Axel cannot move a hand to point, only tell where it lay before, but 'tis
not there now. "If it hadn't been so far to Sellanraa," says Axel.

Then Oline falls to searching her own ways, and Axel calls to her that there's no ax there.
"Ay, well," says Oline, "I was but looking a bit. And what's this, maybe?" says she.

"You've found it?" says he.

"Ay, by the grace of the Lord Almighty," answers Oline, with high-sounding words.

But there's little pride in Axel now, no more than he'll give in that he was wrong after all,
and maybe not all clear in his head. And what's he to do with the ax now 'tis there? He cannot
stir, and Oline has to cut him free herself. Oh, Oline has wielded an ax before that day; had
axed off many a load of firing in her life.

Axel cannot walk, one leg is dead to the hip, and something wrong with his back; shooting pains
that make him groan curiously--ay, he feels but a part of himself, as if something were left
behind there under the tree. "Don't know," says he--"don't know what it can be...." But Oline
knows, and tells him now with solemn words; ay, for she has saved a human creature from death,
and she knows it; 'tis the Almighty has seen fit to lay on her this charge, where He might
have sent legions of angels. Let Axel consider the grace and infinite wisdom of the Almighty
even in this! And if so be as it had been His pleasure to send a worm out of the earth instead,
all things were possible to Him.

"Ay, I know," said Axel. "But I can't make out how 'tis with me--feels strange...."

Feels strange, does it? Oh, but only wait, wait just a little. 'Twas but to move and stretch
the least bit at a time, till the life came back. And get his jacket on and get warm again.
But never in all her days would she forget how the Angel of the Lord had called her out to
the doorway that last time, that she might hear a voice--the voice of one crying in the forest.
Ay, 'twas as in the days of Paradise, when trumpets blew and compassed round the walls of Jericho....

Ay, strange. But while she talked, Axel was taking his time, learning the use of his limbs
again, getting to walk.

They get along slowly towards home, Oline still playing saviour and supporting him. They manage
somehow. A little farther down they come upon Brede. "What's here?" says Brede. "Hurt yourself?
Let me help a bit."

Axel takes no heed. He had given a promise to God not to be vengeful, not to tell of what Brede
had done, but beyond that he was free. And what was Brede going up that way again for now?
Had he seen that Oline was at Maaneland, and guessed that she would hear?

"And it's you here, Oline, is it?" goes on Brede easily. "Where d'you find him? Under a tree?
Well, now, 'tis a curious thing," says he. "I was up that way just now on duty, along the line,
and seems like I heard some one shouting. Turns round and listens quick as a flash--Brede's
the man to lend a hand if there's need. And so 'twas Axel, was it, lying under a tree, d'you say?"

"Ay," says Axel. "And well you knew that saw and heard as well. But never helping hand...."

"Good Lord, deliver us!" cries Oline, aghast. "As I'm a sinner...."

Brede explains. "Saw? Why, yes, I saw you right enough. But why didn't you call out? You might
have called out if there was anything wrong. I saw you right enough, ay, but never thought
but you were lying down a bit to rest."

"You'd better say no more," says Axel warningly. "You know well enough you left me there and
hoping I'd never rise again."

Oline sees her way now; Brede must not be allowed to interfere. She must be indispensable,
nothing can come between her and Axel that could make him less completely indebted to herself.
She had saved him, she alone. And she waves Brede aside; will not even let him carry the ax
or the basket of food. Oh, for the moment she is all on Axel's side--but next time she comes
to Brede and sits talking to him over a cup of coffee, she will be on his.

"Let me carry the ax and things, anyway," says Brede.

"Nay," says Oline, speaking for Axel. "He'll take them himself."

And Brede goes on again: "You might have called to me, anyway; we're not so deadly enemies
that you couldn't say a word to a man?--You did call? Well, you might have shouted then, so
a man could hear. Blowing a gale and all.... Leastways, you might have waved a hand."

"I'd no hand to wave," answers Axel. "You saw how 'twas with me, shut down and locked in all ways."

"Nay, that I'll swear I didn't. Well, I never heard. Here, let me carry those things."

Oline puts in: "Leave him alone. He's hurt and poorly."

But Axel's mind is getting to work again now. He has heard of Oline before, and understands
it will be a costly thing for him, and a plague besides, if she can claim to have saved his
life all by herself. Better to share between them as far as may be. And he lets Brede take
the basket and the tools; ay, he lets it be understood that this is a relief, that it eases
him to get rid of it. But Oline will not have it, she snatches away the basket, she and no
other will carry what's to be carried there. Sly simplicity at war on every side. Axel is left
for a moment without support, and Brede has to drop the basket and hold him, though Axel can
stand by himself now, it seems.

Then they go on a bit that way, Brede holding Axel's arm, and Oline carrying the things. Carrying,
carrying, full of bitterness and flashing fire; a miserable part indeed, to carry a basket
instead of leading a helpless man. What did Brede want coming that way at all--devil of a man!

"Brede," says she, "what's it they're saying, you've sold your place and all?"

"And who's it wants to know?" says Brede boldly.

"Why, as to that, I'd never thought 'twas any secret not to be known."

"Why didn't you come to the sale, then, and bid with the rest?"

"Me--ay, 'tis like you to make a jest of poor folk."

"Well, and I thought 'twas you had grown rich and grand. Wasn't it you had left you old Sivert's
chest and all his money in? He he he!"

Oline was not pleased, not softened at being minded of that legacy. "Ay, old Sivert, he'd a
kindly thought for me, and I'll not say otherwise. But once he was dead and gone, 'twas little
they left after him in worldly goods. And you know yourself how 'tis to be stripped of all,
and live under other man's roof; but old Sivert he's in palaces and mansions now, and the likes
of you and me are left on earth to be spurned underfoot."

"Ho, you and your talk!" says Brede scornfully, and turns to Axel: "Well, I'm glad I came in
time--help you back home. Not going too fast, eh?"

"No."

Talk to Oline, stand up and argue with Oline! Was never a man could do it but to his cost.
Never in life would she give in, and never her match for turning and twisting heaven and earth
to a medley of seeming kindness and malice, poison and senseless words. This to her face now:
Brede making as if 'twas himself was bringing Axel home!

"What I was going to say," she begins: "They gentlemen came up to Sellanraa that time; did
you ever get to show them all those sacks of stone you'd got, eh, Brede?"

"Axel," says Brede, "let me hoist you on my shoulders, and I'll carry you down rest of the way."

"Nay," says Axel. "For all it's good of you to ask."

So they go on; not far now to go. Oline must make the best of her time on the way. "Better
if you'd saved him at the point of death," says she. "And how was it, Brede, you coming by
and seeing him in deadly peril and heard his cry and never stopped to help?"

"You hold your tongue," says Brede.

And it might have been easier for her if she had, wading deep in snow and out of breath, and
a heavy burden and all, but 'twas not Oline's way to hold her tongue. She'd a bit in reserve,
a dainty morsel. Ho, 'twas a dangerous thing to talk of, but she dared it.

"There's Barbro now," says she. "And how's it with her? Not run off and away, perhaps?"

"Ay, she has," answers Brede carelessly. "And left a place for you for the winter by the same."

But here was a first-rate opening for Oline again; she could let it be seen now what a personage
she was; how none could manage long without Oline--Oline, that, had to be sent for near or
far. She might have been two places, ay, three, for that matter. There was the parsonage--they'd
have been glad to have her there, too. And here was another thing--ay, let Axel hear it too,
'twould do no harm--they'd offered her so-and-so much for the winter, not to speak of a new
pair of shoes and a sheepskin into the bargain. But she knew what she was doing, coming to
Maaneland, coming to a man that was lordly to give and would pay her over and above what other
folk did--and so she'd come. No, 'twas no need for Brede to trouble himself that gait--when
her Heavenly Father had watched over her all those years, and opened this door and that before
her feet, and bidden her in. Ay, and it seemed like God Himself had known what He was doing,
sending her up to Maaneland that day, to save the life of one of His creatures on earth....

Axel was getting wearied again by now; his legs could hardly bear him, and seemed like giving
up. Strange, he had been getting better by degrees, able to walk, as the life and warmth came
back into his body. But now--he must lean on Brede for support! It seemed to begin when Oline
started talking about her wages; and then, when she was saving his life again, it was worse
than ever. Was he trying to lessen her triumph once more? Heaven knows--but his mind seemed
to be working again. As they neared the house, he stopped, and said: "Looks like I'll never
get there, after all."

Brede hoists him up without a word, and carries him. So they go on like that, Oline all venom,
Axel up full length on Brede's back.

"What I was going to say," gets out Oline--"about Barbro--wasn't she far gone with child?"

"Child?" groans Brede, under the weight. Oh, 'tis a strange procession; but Axel lets himself
be carried all the way till he's set down at his own door.

Brede puffs and blows, mightily out of breath.

"Ay, or how--was it ever born, after all?" asks Oline.

Axel cuts in quickly with a word to Brede: "I don't know how I'd ever have got home this night
but for you." And he does not forget Oline: "And you, Oline, that was the first to find me.
I've to thank you both for it all."

That was how Axel was saved....

       *       *       *       *       *

The next few days Oline would talk of nothing but the great event; Axel was hard put to it
to keep her within bounds. Oline can point out the very spot where she was standing in the
room when an angel of the Lord called her out to the door to hear a cry for help--Axel goes
back to his work in the woods, and when he has felled enough, begins carting it up to the sawmill
at Sellanraa.

Good, regular winter work, as long as it lasts; carting up rough timber and bringing back sawn
planks. The great thing is to hurry and get through with it before the new year, when the frost
sets in in earnest, and the saw cannot work. Things are going on nicely, everything as well
as could be wished. If Sivert happens to come up from the village with an empty sledge, he
stops and takes a stick of timber on the way, to help his neighbour. And the pair of them talk
over things together, and each is glad of a talk with the other.

"What's the news down village?" asks Axel.

"Why, nothing much," says Sivert. "There's a new man coming to take up land, so they say."

A new man--nothing in that; 'twas only Sivert's way of putting it. New men came now every year
or so, to take up land; there were five new holdings now below Breidablik. Higher up, things
went more slowly, for all that the soil was richer that way. The one who had ventured farthest
was Isak, when he settled down at Sellanraa; he was the boldest and the wisest of them all.
Later, Axel Ström had come--and now there was a new man besides. The new man was to have a
big patch of arable land and forest down below Maaneland--there was land enough.

"Heard what sort of a man it is?" asked Axel.

"Nay," said Sivert. "But he's bringing up houses all ready made, to fix up in no time."

"Ho! A rich man, then?"

"Ay, seems like. And a wife and three children with him; and horse and cattle."

"Why, then, 'twill be a rich man enough. Any more about him?"

"No. He's three-and-thirty."

"And what's his name?"

"Aron, they say. Calls his place Storborg."

"Storborg? H'm. 'Tis no little place, then." [Footnote: "Stor" = great]

"He's come up from the coast. Had a fishery there, so they say."

"H'm--fishery. Wonder if he knows much about farming?" says Axel. "That all you heard? Nothing
more?"

"No. He paid all down in cash for the title-deeds. That's all I heard. Must have made a heap
of money with his fishery, they say. And now he's going to start here with a store."

"Ho! A store?"

"Ay, so they say."

"H'm. So he's going to start a store?"

This was the one really important piece of news, and the two neighbours talked it over every
way as they drove up. It was a big piece of news--the greatest event, perhaps, in all the history
of the place; ay, there was much to say of that. Who was he going to trade with, this new man?
The eight of them that had settled on the common lands? Or did he reckon on getting custom
from the village as well? Anyway, the store would mean a lot to them; like as not, it would
bring up more settlers again. The holdings might rise in value--who could say?

They talked it over as if they would never tire. Ay, here were two men with their own interests
and aims, as great to them as other men's. The settlement was their world; work, seasons, crops
were the adventures of their life. Was not that interest and excitement enough? Ho, enough
indeed! Many a time they had need to sleep but lightly, to work on long past meal-times; but
they stood it, they endured it and were none the worse; a matter of seven hours lying pinned
down beneath a tree was not a thing to spoil them for life as long as their limbs were whole. At ten months of marriage, a girl had Facia, and without having achieved the year, her husband,
the people who had disappeared a week ago, came home at night, broken and disheveled; gave two
slaps his wife because he affectionately asked how he had gone, where had gone and what was
coming, and while threatening to open in channel if anyone had he had not seen hide nor hair
from the previous week, made a mess of hastily trinkets he had left at home and with others,
it seems, like it was pulling out of wide pockets of his clothes and disappeared without saying
goodbye to the house facia and the people lost in the darkness of the mountains ... until today.

After
two days of this, came to town a couple of the civil guard and an
indictment of Judge of the party asking for him.

It was the theft of a church and a stabbing the poor clerk who tried to prevent ... Two birds
of the gang had already fallen into the trap, and are looking to the third, the captain of
her, married the famous baratijero Tablanca ... and three or four parishes of Spain and the
Indies, according to their background was process.

With this coup was shocked the neighborhood, took Don Celso hands
to the head, and aged Fifteen years suddenly poor Facia.

The rogue was heard only fugitive who walked by the republics of America, recently escaped
from Spain and was given up for dead many years ago or dragging a chain.

Shortly after being abandoned, sad and sorry the hapless Facia, picked it up again Don Celso by love
of God, and love of God is also not said a word since then that relates even remotely close
to his madness or his misfortune, and his hand was growing Tona girl, ignoring the real reasons
for the sadness and bitterness of her mother, and living in the belief that his father had been
a good man who, like many others, had gone to "the other side" to improve your fortune, and that she
had died without succeeding, after year.

Such is the substance of what he told me Chisco. This could be explained only on arrechucho that of
Facia, and also could not explain, of all kinds, the case even after
known the history of the gray woman, who was interesting, was not
to get into unscrupulous inquiries, and I went.

VII

With two guides so complacent and so experts like mine, soon met the main paths, ravines and
gorges, wildlife and flora of the mountains nearest the contour; I lost the fear I instilled
the "hints" or discovered along the cliffs, being be noted that there is no way small or large
is not a hint continued, and gained the ease and strength of my legs lacked the same principle to
support me on uphill slopes than down, ie if he was, because it is the absolute truth in the saying
instead, that in this craggy region there is no other plain the room of Don Celso. No climbed
to great heights, because it shows me much tempting of that caste, nor did my rough guide to
great lengths to encourage me to overcome the inclinations of my complexion relatively lazy, but
why not let meet my little curiosity in the contemplation of beautiful scenery. Finally, I
also met major ports in winter and summer, which send their cattle in the valleys surrounding,
and admired the freshness of those brañas ("flocks") in tight, thin grass, real big bald in
the middle of dense forests and vegetation powerful. Each These plaques are, in the ports of summer,
a hut, and the other a 'winter' hut to shelter people who herd cattle, and the winter, building
large and robust of lime and stone, barn and stables for a good herd of cattle. Usually, each
winter correspond to the cattles of eight or ten co-owners of "hazas" or contiguous parts of the
brane. Some of these winter were already occupied. At night the cattle eat pinned to the manger,
of "priming" the barn, mowed in August hazas, pasta day outdoors, while time consent, the care
of their owners, who after leaving gathered at dusk down to sleep in the village, unlike in summer,
during which they sleep huddled in the hut, leaving the cabin "acurriada", ie, the flock gathered
around it. The stud are more independent and free, and stood, wild state, where less we thought.

Pete
was very rough, and it happened more than once I go very careless and feel my back a ferocious
roar that made me make two turns in the air.

It was the shotgun's gaznápiro: a escopetón older and patched the jokes, he had made one of
hers. Pito not tired to tell anyone or taking the slightest precaution when a part is put throw,
ie, as he peered, both in the air than for Matos, who through the mountains is over, because
for a weapon the size of yours and the stuck shrapnel that had not far and fences: it threw
in the face, and above of my shoulder or between the legs of Chisco, as requested by the situation
of things and people, without getting tired of saying 'there goes that', "puuunnn!" It was
like the end of world: the mountains tremble, and the piece was not only dead, but in tatters,
because He did not lose once, or a single grain piece of shrapnel escopetón.

And the piece was a hare, a fox, a bobcat, a "Aeschylus" (squirrel), a pheasant or a vermin of
regular size, it is very noticeable that in this and other similar
strains are animals he encounters one going for a walk, even for sites
nearest to the people clothing as elsewhere in the world, is not it,
with the domestic cat, loving dog or poultry.

Chisco behaved very differently than his comrade: everything was unchanged in most at least that
its placidity of the continent. If I put a piece shot with a hand me stopped smoothly, with
the other pointed to me, and with an expressive gesture or half word
I implied that was down to me.

If I wandered the coup, as was almost always, he'd he amended, if not anticipated the shotgun
from where less could Chorcos wait, and I noticed in the first case, some malicious pleasure
in the look me directed, while kicking the victim on the floor or down from the sky tumbling
as if to say: "Nah, you how not val Vey a pitu that shotgun, to be as nice as it is?" But Chisco
are greatly mistaken, because the weapon was excellent, and very decent ammunition it. What failed
was the hunter, that being so clever as I was in the shooting White did not know where they
walked when they had to throw on the run or the flight. The case is that this stupidity came to
spite me, and contributed much to it, rather than looks Chisco syrupy, the brutal laughter that
solemnized Chorcos each amendment was their grungy espingardón the failures of my gun. And so I
arrived in mortification, having put my five senses in this business, I got soon, if not the
skill of my companions, to behave in a way, other than "amendable" by none I missed shots. This
cessation of smiles and laughter of a another, and I felt I downloaded the mind of a great
weight, because that weaknesses are strung together of life, and has never been told the truth
as the pompous Don Hermogenes: "There is little or much at all. "

Twice accompanied us on these expeditions, exploration and mixed game, the priest Don Sabas, but
no weapon that pinto club that served as a cane. Was it something like gunpowder decline in
spending in those bursts of pure pleasure, and called them "creatures of God" those who were in
the magnitude scale, from wild boar and deer down. But how knew the full scale complete and
true, and those mountains and other such, and how respect he heard
the two men, as hunters, both are growing at my side, and how happy
I listened and I watched him this way ... and many others, for those
without eyes or the rough ears of Chisco witted and his comrade!

Because it's true that this word hombrazo so dull and so poor in resources in the party My uncle,
a bit more pleasant and loose officiating in the church where he spoke from the altar more fairly
to the case and the extent of understanding of his rustic parishioners, in the heights of the
mountain did not seem to himself. It was under him, to be much, the interest to know in a few
colorful phrases and the news I asked, not to satisfy I supplied the Chisco and his partner,
about the great beasts in their hideouts in those mountains and how
to catch them, trouble sets in which they had seen him and As this
was related to near and far, their descriptions of journeys made by
this or that port during an unbridled "cellerisca" their risk of death
among these snowdrifts, sometimes at fault and clinging to life itself,
and most of them for love that of others: the rest was, for me, the
way they "fall" on the mountain, like a statue master in its own right
pedestal; that their way of enjoying the nature that surrounded, swelling
it by smell, by sight and even every pore his body, so after this
surfeit, was reading me aloud as he passed his eyes through the pages
of this immense book so close and in Greek to me, the ease that was
within the rough simplicity of their language, the right word, the
picturesque touch, note exact box needed to be well observed and well
meaning, the role played in this work of true artist, his painting
club, stressing in air and the end of the arm extended, the force
of words, the folding of the humble cassock, gently moved by the continuous
air blowing from the heights, the head erect, eyes sparkling, his
hat down over his neck, correctness and elegance, in short, all lines
of this living sculpture ... Oh! diéranle the poor priest in plain
land in the open valley, in the city, a miter, the papal tiara in
the capital the Christian world, and would give them death: breathing
at will, to live at ease, to know God, to feel in all its immensity,
to worship and Don Sabas serve as served and worshiped him, he needed
the continued spectacle of those grand altar of that wilderness, rugged
and lonely, with their peaks vanished so often in the clouds that
blended with the sky.

None of this, how beautiful it was and so was the view, read or estimate the two monsoon how deep
respect for Don Sabas had only become a priest of the parish and man of unquestionable competence
as soon as they reached them.

My temper, in the scale of the sensible, not even reached the level of the innumerable as for
"feel natural" need to see reproduced on canvas and embellished by fantasy the painter and resources
of the palette, and yet, I read something I had never read in nature every time I looked in
the light of the impressions of Don Sabas perched on the tops of the mountains. And it was much
appreciated and even admired for me this miracle cure Tablanca poor; miracle that had never
been to me no pictures, no books or speeches.

On the last occasion for those coming home the two, I surrendered, and hastily, and it so fresh
and so lively as if it had not left the place, told me he had seen everything me until then it
was like to see nothing and had to do something that I had promised.

- What you want when you want - I answered trembling, for its commitment to acquiring with the
man for whom gambling excursions were a thing to me out of joint.

- Well, my account is the case - he replied - and there is no more to say.

VIII

My visits to the village thorough examination alone and I made my own, leaving appear in it as
the careless, to surprise the best in their intimacy. Knowing "Sight" to your neighborhood at
Mass the previous Sunday, I had noticed very strongly monotonous uniformity "cut", so to speak, and
even clothing.

All the boys used the 'lastic' red and green all the old, and all women had the "blanket" or similar
color shawl and similarly crossed over his chest and kidneys; everywhere and all kinds abounded
blond and the curved line, not without grace, with a tendency the
square to the shoulders, everyone walked, talked and moved with the
same calm, and in all faces, old and young, you could see the same
expression of goodness in some tinge of fright, as if the continuing
vision of the great masses in whose shadow they live those people,
the had frightened and suspense.

I did not have one iota to rectify these impressions, received at a glance that the whole neighborhood,
when I tried studied in further detail on the contrary, resultóme that the monotony of their way and
clothing to be well confirmed by, had to add another monotony less salient by the way: that
of their rooms. All Tablanca houses, with very rare exceptions, I found the same plane built
by: the ground floor, for livestock stables sheep and goats, on the floor, family room and
the kitchen ceiling without the roof, and above the loft, bounded by a vertical board on the edge
corresponding to kitchen, forming with the three remaining walls
what might be called "smoke box."

Outdoor accessory to a block and a cattle barn, and stuck to her or the house, an orchard very
small.

Just as in the kitchen of my uncle spoke all over the place for young and old, old and young. As a
characteristic of that language, such as jacks and Hs oes as esu
end gratia "jermosu" and "jormigueru" with beautiful mound.

But as so melodic and rhythmic cadence is giving the sentence, which
are not the rough a word is unpleasant to the ear: on the contrary,
and have expressions and idioms of taste so signally classic, that
this and the rhythmic chant that accompany them, listening a conversation
between those mountaineers, came to my mind the "music" of our old
romances.

It is also very noteworthy that none of these peculiarities in the way of being and expression,
undergoes alteration visible by changing places or customs. It's very common there to migrate
during the summer the men servants to the provinces as distant as those of Aragon to hold the
office of sawing wood, or those of Castile, or work implements chestnuts, to exchange for wheat
or cash. I spoke with these men, newcomers the valley after many months away from him, and did not
find the slightest difference that distinguished in dress or speech, or how to conduct themselves
at all, its other neighbors; nor have I found after looking for her to try, very noticeable signs that
interest them outside their homes, rather than the issue that brings them, as if they only
had eyes heart to see and feel the native homeland.

The race is as healthy and beautiful I have ever known in Spain, and I think they are a prominent
part it continued fitness of the mountain, the abundance of milk and the integrity of customs public
and domestic. I learned with astonishment that there was no place in a tavern, and that Property
of the City, who sold the recipe and came to almost every consumer I drink at home, from where
it was, by force of habit, which was very poorly regarded the man who showed instincts' bartenders,
"and much worse that was carried away from them, albeit rarely.
 That was how he put
it, meaning that they should have an easier life of it than he had had.

And look you, things did go well; neighbours took notice of him, and of his wife--ay, even
of the children. It was not the least remarkable thing, that folk took notice of the children.
The miners came down from their work in the hills, and had not seen a child's face for many
days; when they caught sight of Aronsen's little ones playing in the yard, they would talk
kindly to them at once, as if they had met three puppies at play. They would have given them
money, but seeing they were the trader's children, it would hardly do. So they played music
for them on their mouth-organs instead. Young Gustaf came down, the wildest of them all, with
his hat over one ear, and his lips ever ready with a merry word; ay, Gustaf it was that came
and played with them for long at a time. The children knew him every time, and ran to meet
them; he would pick them up and carry them on his back, all three of them, and dance with them.
"Ho!" said Gustaf, and danced with them. And then he would take out his mouth-organ and play
tunes and music for them, till the two servant-girls would come out and look at him, and listen,
with tears in their eyes. Ay, a madcap was Gustaf, but he knew what he was doing!

Then after a bit he would go into the shop and throw his money about, buying up a whole knapsack
full of things. And when he went back up the road again, it was with a whole little stock-in-trade
of his own--and he would stop at Sellanraa on the way and open his pack and show them. Notepaper
with a flower in the corner, and a new pipe and a new shirt, and a fringed neckerchief--sweets
for the womenfolk, and shiny things, a watch-chain with a compass, a pocket-knife--oh, a host
of things. Ay, there were rockets he had bought to let off on Sunday, for every one to see.
Inger gave him milk, and he joked with Leopoldine, and picked up little Rebecca and swung her
up in the air--"Hoy huit!"

"And how's the building getting on?" he asked the Swedes--Gustaf was a Swede himself, and made
friends with them too. The building was getting on as best it could, with but themselves to
the work. Why, then, he'd come and give them a hand himself, would Gustaf, though that was
only said in jest.

"Ay, if you only would," said Inger. For the cowshed ought to be ready by the autumn, when
the cattle were brought in.

Gustaf let off a rocket, and having let off one, there was no sense in keeping the rest. As
well let them off too--and so he did, half a dozen of them, and the women and children stood
round breathless at the magic of the magician; and Inger had never seen a rocket before, but
the wild fire of them somehow reminded her of the great world she had once seen. What was a
sewing-machine to this? And when Gustaf finished up by playing his mouth-organ, Inger would
have gone off along the road with him for sheer emotion....

The mine is working now, and the ore is carted down by teams of horses to the sea; a steamer
had loaded up one cargo and sailed away with it to South America, and another steamer waits
already for the next load. Ay, 'tis a big concern. All the settlers have been up to look at
the wonderful place, as many as can walk. Brede Olsen has been up, with his samples of stone,
and got nothing for his pains, seeing that the mining expert was gone back to Sweden again.
On Sundays, there was a crowd of people coming up all the way from the village; ay, even Axel
Ström, who had no time to throw away, turned off from his proper road along the telegraph line
to look at the place. Hardly a soul now but has seen the mine and its wonders. And at last
Inger herself, Inger from Sellanraa, puts on her best, gold ring and all, and goes up to the
hills. What does she want there?

Nothing, does not even care to see how the work is done. Inger has come to show herself, that
is all. When she saw the other women going up, she felt she must go too. A disfiguring scar
on her upper lip, and grown children of her own, has Inger, but she must go as the others did.
It irks her to think of the others, young women, ay ... but she will try if she can't compete
with them all the same. She has not begun to grow stout as yet, but has still a good figure
enough, tall and natty enough; she can still look well. True, her colouring is not what it
used to be, and her skin is not comparable to a golden peach--but they should see for all that;
ay, they should say, after all, she was good enough!

They greet her kindly as she could wish; the workmen know her, she has given them many a drink
of milk, and they show her over the mine, the huts, the stables and kitchens, the cellars and
storesheds; the bolder men edge in close to her and take her lightly by the arm, but Inger
does not feel hurt at all, it does her good. And where there are steps to go up or down, she
lifts her skirts high, showing her legs a trifle; but she manages it quietly, as if without
a thought. Ay, she's good enough, think the men to themselves.

Oh, but there is something touching about her, this woman getting on in years; plain to see
that a glance from one of these warm-blooded menfolk came all unexpectedly to her; she was
grateful for it, and returned it; she was a woman like other women, and it thrilled her to
feel so. An honest woman she had been, but like enough 'twas for lack of opportunity.

Getting on in years....

Gustaf came up. Left two girls from the village, and a comrade, just to come. Gustaf knew what
he was at, no doubt; he took Inger's hand with more warmth, more pressure than was needed,
and thanked her for the last pleasant evening at Sellanraa, but he was careful not to plague
her with attention.

"Well, Gustaf, and when are you coming to help us with the building?" says Inger, going red.
And Gustaf says he will come sure enough before long. His comrades hear it, and put in a word
that they'll all be coming down before long.

"Ho!" says Inger. "Aren't you going to stay on the mine, then, come winter?"

The men answer cautiously, that it doesn't look like it, but can't be sure. But Gustaf is bolder,
and laughs and says, looks like they've scraped out the bit of copper there was.

"You'll not say that in earnest surely?" says Inger. And the other men put in that Gustaf had
better be careful not to say any such thing.

But Gustaf was not going to be careful; he said a great deal more, and as for Inger, 'twas
strange how he managed to win her for himself, for all that he never seemed to put himself
forward that way. One of the other lads played a concertina, but 'twas not like Gustaf's mouth-organ;
another lad again, and a smart fellow he was too, tried to draw attention to himself by singing
a song off by heart to the music, but that was nothing either, for all that he had a fine rolling
voice. And a little while after, there was Gustaf, and if he hadn't got Inger's gold ring on
his little finger! And how had it come about, when he never plagued nor pushed himself forward?
Oh, he was forward enough in his way, but quiet with it all, as Inger herself; they did not
talk of things, and she let him play with her hand as if without noticing. Later on, when she
sat in one of the huts drinking coffee, there was a noise outside, high words between the men,
and she knew it was about herself, and it warmed her. A pleasant thing to hear, for one no
longer young, for a woman getting on in years.

And how did she come home from the hills that Sunday evening? Ho, well enough, virtuous as
she had come, no more and no less. There was a crowd of men to see her home, the crowd of them
that would not turn back as long as Gustaf was there; would not leave her alone with him, not
if they knew it! Inger had never had such a gay time, not even in the days when she had been
out in the world.

"Hadn't Inger lost something?" they asked at last.

"Lost something? No."

"A gold ring, for instance?"

And at that Gustaf had to bring it out; he was one against all, a whole army.

"Oh, 'twas a good thing you found it," said Inger, and made haste to say good-bye to her escort.
She drew nearer Sellanraa, saw the many roofs of the buildings; it was her home that lay there.
And she awoke once more, came back to herself, like the clever wife she was, and took a short
cut through to the summer shed to look to the cattle. On the way she passes by a place she
knows; a little child had once lain buried there; she had patted down the earth with her hands,
set up a tiny cross--oh, but it was long ago. Now, she was wondering if those girls had finished
their milking in good time....

The work at the mine goes on, but there are whisperings of something wrong, the yield is not
as good as it had promised. The mining expert, who had gone back home, came out again with
another expert to help him; they went about blasting and boring and examining all the ground.
What was wrong? The copper is fine enough, nothing wrong with that, but thin, and no real depth
in it; getting thicker to the southward, lying deep and fine just where the company's holding
reached its limit--and beyond that was Almenning, the property of the State. Well, the first
purchasers had perhaps not thought so much of the thing, anyway. It was a family affair, some
relatives who had bought the place as a speculation; they had not troubled to secure the whole
range, all the miles to the next valley, no; they had but taken over a patch of ground from
Isak Sellanraa and Geissler, and then sold it again.

And what was to be done now? The leading men, with the experts and the foremen, know well enough;
they must start negotiations with the State at once. So they send a messenger off at full speed
to Sweden, with letters and plans and charts, and ride away themselves down to the Lensmand
below, to get the rights of the fjeld south of the water. And here their difficulties begin;
the law stands in their way; they are foreigners, and cannot be purchasers in their own right.
They knew all about that, and had made arrangements. But the southern side of the fjeld was
sold already--and that they did not know. "Sold?"

"Ay, long ago, years back."

"Who bought it then?"

"Geissler."

"What Geissler?--oh, that fellow--h'm."

"And the title-deeds approved and registered," says the Lensmand. "'Twas bare rock, no more,
and he got it for next to nothing."

"Who is this fellow Geissler that keeps cropping up? Where is he?"

"Heaven knows where he is now!"

And a new messenger is sent off to Sweden. They must find out all about this Geissler. Meanwhile,
they could not keep on all the men; they must wait and see.

So Gustaf came down to Sellanraa, with all his worldly goods on his back, and here he was,
he said. Ay, Gustaf had given up his work at the mine--that is to say, he had been a trifle
too outspoken the Sunday before, about the mine and the copper in the mine; the foreman had
heard of it, and the engineer, and Gustaf was given his discharge. Well, good-bye then, and
maybe 'twas the very thing he wanted; there could be nothing suspicious now about his coming
to Sellanraa. They set him to work at once on the cowshed.

They worked and worked at the stone walls, and when a few days later another man came down
from the mine, he was taken on too; now there were two spells, and the work went apace. Ay,
they would have it ready by the autumn, never fear.

But now one after another of the miners came down, dismissed, and took the road to Sweden;
the trial working was stopped for the present. There was something like a sigh from the folk
in the village at the news; foolish folk, they did not understand what a trial working was,
that it was only working on trial, but so it was. There were dark forebodings and discouragement
among the village folk; money was scarcer, wages were reduced, things were very quiet at the
trading station at Storborg. What did it all mean? Just when everything was going on finely,
and Aronsen had got a flagstaff and a flag, and had bought a fine white bearskin for a rug
to have in the sledge for the winter, and fine clothes for all the family ... Little matters
these, but there were greater things happening as well. Here were two new men had bought up
land for clearing in the wilds; high up between Maaneland and Sellanraa, and that was no small
event for the whole of that little outlying community. The two new settlers had built their
turf huts and started clearing ground and digging. They were hard-working folk, and had done
much in a little time. All that summer they had bought their provisions at Storborg, but when
they came down now, last time, there was hardly anything to be had. Nothing in stock--and what
did Aron want with heavy stocks of this and that now the work at the mine had stopped? He had
hardly anything of any sort on the place now--only money. Of all the folk in the neighbourhood,
Aronsen was perhaps the most dejected; his reckoning was all upset. When some one urged him
to cultivate his land and live on that till better times, he answered: "Cultivate the land?
'Twas not that I came and set up house here for."

At last Aronsen could stand it no longer; he must go up to the mine and see for himself how
things were. It was a Sunday. When he got to Sellanraa, he wanted Isak to go with him, but
Isak had never yet set foot on the mine since they had started; he was more at home on the
hillside below. Inger had to put in a word. "You might as well go with Aronsen, when he asks
you," she said. And maybe Inger was not sorry to have him go; 'twas Sunday, and like as not
she wanted to be rid of him for an hour or so. And so Isak went along.

There were strange things to be seen up there in the hills; Isak did not recognize the place
at all now, with its huts and sheds, a whole town of them, and carts and waggons and great
gaping holes in the ground. The engineer himself showed them round. Maybe he was not in the
best of humour just now, that same engineer, but he had tried all along to keep away the feeling
of gloom that had fallen upon the village folk and the settlers round--and here was his chance,
with no less persons than the Margrave of Sellanraa and the great trader from Storborg on the spot.

He explained the nature of the ore and the rocks in which it was found. Copper, iron, and sulphur,
all were there together. Ay, they knew exactly what there was in the rocks up there--even gold
and silver was there, though not so much of it. A mining engineer, he knows a deal of things.

"And it's all going to shut down now?" asked Aronsen.

"Shut down?" repeated the engineer in astonishment. "A nice thing that'd be for South America
if we did!" No, they were discontinuing their preliminary operations for a while, only for
a short time; they had seen what the place was like, what it could produce; then they could
build their aerial railway and get to work on the southern side of the fjeld. He turned to
Isak: "You don't happen to know where this Geissler's got to?"

"No."

Well, no matter--they'd get hold of him all right. And then they'd start to work again. Shut
down? The idea!

Isak is suddenly lost in wonder and delight over a little machine that works with a treadle--simply
move your foot and it works. He understands it at once--'tis a little smithy to carry about
on a cart and take down and set up anywhere you please.

"What's a thing like that cost, now?" he asks.

"That? Portable forge? Oh, nothing much." They had several of the same sort, it appeared, but
nothing to what they had down at the sea; all sorts of machines and apparatus, huge big things.
Isak was given to understand that mining, the making of valleys and enormous chasms in the
rock, was not a business that could be done with your fingernails--ha ha!

They stroll about the place, and the engineer mentions that he himself will be going across
to Sweden in a few days' time.

"But you'll be coming back again?" says Aronsen.

Why, of course. Knew of no reason why the Government or the police should try to keep him.

Isak managed to lead round to the portable forge once more and stopped, looking at it again.
"And what might a bit of a machine like that cost?" he asked.

Cost? Couldn't say off-hand--a deal of money, no doubt, but nothing to speak of in mining operations.
Oh, a grand fellow was the engineer; not in the best of humour himself just then, perhaps,
but he kept up appearances and played up rich and fine to the last. Did Isak want a forge?
Well, he might take that one--the company would never trouble about a little thing like that--the
company would make him a present of a portable forge!

An hour after, Aronsen and Isak were on their way down again. Aronsen something calmer in mind--there
was hope after all. Isak trundles down the hillside with his precious forge on his back. Ay,
a barge of a man, he could bear a load! The engineer had offered to send a couple of men down
with it to Sellanraa next morning, but Isak thanked him--'twas more than worth his while. He
was thinking of his own folk; 'twould be a fine surprise for them to see him come walking down
with a smithy on his back.

But 'twas Isak was surprised after all.

A horse and cart turned into the courtyard just as he reached home. And a highly remarkable
load it brought. The driver was a man from the village, but beside him walked a gentleman at
whom Isak stared in astonishment--it was Geissler.

Chapter V

There were other things that might have given Isak matter for surprise, but he was no great
hand at thinking of more than one thing at a time. "Where's Inger?" was all he said as he passed
by the kitchen door. He was only anxious to see that Geissler was well received.

Inger? Inger was out plucking berries; had been out plucking berries ever since Isak started--she
and Gustaf the Swede. Ay, getting on in years, and all in love again and wild with it; autumn
and winter near, but she felt the warmth in herself again, flowers and blossoming again. "Come
and show where there's cloudberries," said Gustaf; "cranberries," said he. And how could a
woman say no? Inger ran into her little room and was both earnest and religious for several
minutes; but there was Gustaf standing waiting outside, the world was at her heels, and all
she did was to tidy her hair, look at herself carefully in the glass, and out again. And what
if she did? Who would not have done the same? Oh, a woman cannot tell one man from another;
not always--not often.

And they two go out plucking berries, plucking cloudberries on the moorland, stepping from
tuft to tuft, and she lifts her skirts high, and has her neat legs to show. All quiet everywhere;
the white grouse have their young ones grown already and do not fly up hissing any more; they
are sheltered spots where bushes grow on the moors. Less than an hour since they started, and
already they are sitting down to rest. Says Inger: "Oh, I didn't think you were like that?"
Oh, she is all weakness towards him, and smiles piteously, being so deep in love--ay, a sweet
and cruel thing to be in love, 'tis both! Right and proper to be on her guard--ay, but only
to give in at last. Inger is so deep in love--desperately, mercilessly; her heart is full of
kindliness towards him, she only cares to be close and precious to him.

Ay, a woman getting on in years....

"When the work's finished, you'll be going off again," says she.

No, he wasn't going. Well, of course, some time, but not yet, not for a week or so.

"Hadn't we better be getting home?" says she.

"No."

They pluck more berries, and in a little while they find a sheltered place among the bushes,
and Inger says: "Gustaf, you're mad to do it." And hours pass--they'll be sleeping now, belike,
among the bushes. Sleeping? Wonderful--far out in the wilderness, in the Garden of Eden. Then
suddenly Inger sits upright and listens: "Seems like I heard some one down on the road away off?"

The sun is setting, the tufts of heather darkening in shadow as they walk home. They pass by
many sheltered spots, and Gustaf sees them, and Inger, she sees them too no doubt, but all
the time she feels as if some one were driving ahead of them. Oh, but who could walk all the
way home with a wild handsome lad, and be on her guard all the time? Inger is too weak, she
can only smile and say: "I never knew such a one."

She comes home alone. And well that she came just then, a fortunate thing. A minute later had
not been well at all. Isak had just come into the courtyard with his forge, and Aronsen--and
there is a horse and cart just pulled up.

"Goddag," says Geissler, greeting Inger as well. And there they stand, all looking one at another--couldn't
be better....

Geissler back again. Years now since he was there, but he is back again, aged a little, greyer
a little, but bright and cheerful as ever. And finely dressed this time, with a white waistcoat
and gold chain across. A man beyond understanding!

Had he an inkling, maybe, that something was going on up at the mine, and wanted to see for
himself? Well, here he was. Very wide awake to look at, glancing round at the place, at the
land, turning his head and using his eyes every way. There are great changes to note; the Margrave
had extended his domains. And Geissler nods.

"What's that you're carrying?" he asks Isak. "'Tis a load for one horse in itself," says he.

"'Tis for a forge," explains Isak. "And a mighty useful thing to have on a bit of a farm,"
says he--ay, calling Sellanraa a bit of a farm, no more!

"Where did you get hold of it?"

"Up at the mine. Engineer, he gave me the thing for a present, he said."

"The company's engineer?" says Geissler, as if he had not understood.

And Geissler, was he to be outdone by an engineer on a copper mine? "I've heard you'd got a
mowing-machine," says he, "and I've brought along a patent raker thing that's handy to have."
And he points to the load on the cart. There it stood, red and blue, a huge comb, a hayrake
to be driven with horses. They lifted it out of the cart and looked at it; Isak harnessed himself
to the thing and tried it over the ground. No wonder his mouth opened wide! Marvel on marvel
coming to Sellanraa!

They spoke of the mine, of the work up in the hills. "They were asking about you, quite a lot,"
said Isak.

"Who?"

"The engineer, and all the other gentlemen. 'Have to get hold of you somehow,' they said."

Oh, but here Isak was saying overmuch, it seemed. Geissler was offended, no doubt; he turned
sharp and curt, and said: "Well, I'm here, if they want me."

Next day came the two messengers back from Sweden, and with them a couple of the mine-owners;
on horseback they were, fine gentlemen and portly; mighty rich folk, by the look of them. They
hardly stopped at Sellanraa at all, simply asked a question or so about the road, without dismounting,
and rode on up the hill. Geissler they pretended not to see, though he stood quite close. A string something blackish, with keys to watch and medals, there was a tendency for buttoning
cassock of a breast pocket. Two fingers were red from holding a cigarette snuff. The head, hard and
intensely black hair streaked with gray prematurely, partly hid under a round cap of silk, like
the one used by shopkeepers.

- Jose Fernandez, priest to serve God and you - said the priest doing
the presentation of person.

Showed the strong teeth of man field, with a humble smile that betrayed
a desire intimate with this fellow, the most prominent of those came
in the ship as opinion.

The music had stopped playing, and the priest took this silence to express the exuberance lacking
a wordy friends seeking opportunity to spread his eloquence. Spanish Openness Fernando treat
him confianzudamente a few words, just as if it were an old Comrade, accompanying each advance
of his intimacy with humble apology: "Pardon me, but here is not like on land. We spend our
lives together, we are in the solitude of the sea, confident to the will of the Lord ... "So
you also went to Buenos Aires, Fernando?

... Well, go! Here we go everyone and may the Almighty that the business will prove well, according
to their desires. "

Good cleric spoke without interruption, and Ojeda was sorting fragments of history These periods
confidential chat. He had his mother in a village in Castile Old, also unhappily married sister,
with a crowd of children, and all trusted him, that was the glory of the family, "the priest",
to be exceptional.

Last descendant of a line miserable day laborers had achieved emancipation from the bondage
of the soil Thanks to some ingenuity demonstrated resiliency in the village school and the protection
of an old lady who had paid for the career of the priesthood.

- Short Run, Don Fernando. I'm no theologian, I am not doctor anything. Mass and pot cure nothing
more, but I've worked in this life! And what is to punish me! ... My brother is unhappy, a good
man, not good for anything, and I have to keep, and poor old lady, and my sister, nephews and
all who believe themselves superior to others in the people because they have an uncle cure.
I have been vicar, working from dawn to night six reals a day: peseta and a half, Don Fernando.
He was pastor of bad alternate locations death, and after sending my mother what he earned (less
than you make a Civil Guard) I had to stay in the gifts of the poor parishioners. And yet the
village barber and other gossips whispered spoiled life we ​​lead those of the Church ... When
lived in Madrid, near the district deputy, requesting a better job,
I've walked fact a sacristy sacristy Azacan of asking masses like
the begging.

He spent much hunger, I have no shame in saying: so hungry to hold mine, and so I there, to see
if I change my luck.

Jose paused, as if hesitated, afraid to express their ideas, and finally
went quietly

- They say Spain is a Catholic country, the most Catholic
of the earth.

That may be, but there in it two pesetas for the clergy of my class, so we work really. There
is money for the Church, but I have others ... others.

In the vagueness of his eyes, the timidity of her voice, there was some protest against those
who living at high altitude.

Fernando asked how he had thought the idea of ​​travel.

- I have beyond seminary classmates. A boy who studied with me living in Buenos Aires, I have written
and wonders of the land, inviting me to go with it.

Before it was much better: missing people from our class, now, on vessels arriving priests of
all countries.

But no matter: the capital can live well in the shade of a parish, and there are the field, where
each week is founded a town and need a cure ... I have also classmates in Chile and other Pacific
nations. I think there still appears the best thing for us. They write that there are woman
who gives one hundred dollars to charity for a mass. And that does not happen in Spain one of
three pesetas! ...

Ojeda was pleased with the frankness of Don José when comparing the earnings of the priesthood
in the two hemispheres. Had done well to embark: surely there fortune awaited him.

- It's not so easy, Don Fernando, there is much competition. I say the Italian priests working
for what they provide, and have lower prices.

As many will help with a trade and when they return home church, are tailors or patching old
shoes ... In those land men are shown, as I know, something indifferent to us. The same than
in ours.

We must seek the support of women, and for this he has promised gift Isidro introduce these rich matrons
who speak with him and sit in the bow.

They seem very enthusiastic about the Italian bishop: "My lord, here, lord, there ', but I I'm
Spanish, and who knows? ... I'd find a rich woman to protect me.

Fernando smiled, somewhat amazed at the ease with which Don José made this statement. What cynicism
alone! ... And he wanted to accompany his smile touching his chest with a finger, but stopped
to see his look of surprise.

- You are mistaken, Mr. Ojeda.

I am a sinner unworthy of many things ... less at that. I have my faults, like all men, but
what you think ... Ever! I do not think never in such trifles. I am a real man!

Banged his chest with manly pride in making this statement, and admired the inconsistency Ojeda
the poor priest, who repeated as proudly as evidence of masculine virtue.

- I'm very man, Don Fernando, and that leaves me indifferent to the
sin in you fool think and it only provides scandals and headaches
... Other sins, I say no ...

A malicious grin wrinkled his cheeks
brown child, which was marked the spot the strong blue beard.

Were bared their teeth, dazzling, that they reported a large occlusal force. Surveying his
avid brightness, believed in the purity Ojeda the man. The pleasure he had contracted in all
its tentacles, to withdraw sordidly on the palate and stomach.

Maltrana had spoken sometimes insatiable appetite of Don José, how quickly that went into the
dining room just sounded the trumpet, the profusion with which gathered their hands sandwiches
and biscuits on trays for tea time, the enthusiasm with which he
praised nutritional abundance aboard the Goethe.

Its power capacity was only comparable by Isidro, that of a castaway
who is saved or an inhabitant of that beleaguered city gives up after
several years.

Forty generations of hungry laborers ate at his mouth.

At that moment, looking towards the promenade Ojeda port, saw he had
just Isidro leave their conversation with the ladies and went to him.

But he stopped before the family Nelida. The father, without leaving your seat, talking to
Martorell, the poet banking and Maltrana, after listening a few seconds, intervened in the conversation.

-
I need to break through, a lady to protect me - continued Don Jose -. But that is not easy in
our world there are fads, as in all the worlds, and vanities and categories. I am a poor priest
who knows only meet as a good worker.

- You ought to imitate - Ojeda said - to the French Abbe excites both ladies.

- Shut up, sir! - Protested the priest -. I'm not good puppeteer. The Spanish did not know make
comedies: we have more serious ... I am a real man!

And he summed up his anger with a fierce blow to the chest, saying several times that he was very
human.

- Maybe I ground my way easier. I am not a cure for fashion, but I'm healing Spanish, and that something
must be worth between people who are our blood, they speak our language and profess Catholicism
because Spain was the first to discover land. There is the Dona Zobeida good, that angel of kindness for
her there is no priest on board I: the bishop and the abbot, as if
they were shoemakers.

Hopefully it is resolved its lawsuit and change of fortune!

Certainly not forget me ... Furthermore, in the land, they say, excess money and wealth of the priests
McLean business. Some are dedicated to the breeding of horses or oxen, others lend money to
parishioners about the crops. But I came to work only on my own, to meet as well, and I am content
with little.

My happiness would be a parish in those areas where the meat is pulled, they say, and the bread
is same. My mother can not come, because he is afraid of the sea, but bring my sister, who guisandera
is fine, and evil will not place my brother and nieces and nephews career ... Lord so!

Stood irresolute and silent, as if his brain wave new and unexpected ideas.

- Forbid that the Almighty of a scam - he said - but I think, Don Fernando, that we in America
we are something. Maybe we do not know much or less daring that chatty beards, but we are more
serious, more simple. Our American Catholicism is more ... How do
I explain?

... more ...

- More classic - stopped Ojeda, to remove the priest from his predicament.

- That is - "Don José after a hesitation, as if he weighed poorly
understood word -.

More classic, according to the country, and so good and simple people are not cure fashion should
greet us better than those that seem foreign priests theater people.

Both remained silent, and Ojeda returned to have the same vision of the day before ... "Buenos
Aires!" Again this name was jittering world a moment, as flickering mystic lamp in the darkness
of the sacristy, evoking the illusion of a plentiful table, a table of fill, and around it
a strong and healthy family, secure the future, surrounding the priest
rich ... And there were all following the flutter of hope to a world
fertile solitudes faults of men, taking as the price of its entry
forces, initiatives and desires: some their arms, others their intelligence,
others eager to copulate avid capital with the land and reproduce
to infinity ... and until that poor priest had his mass, its Spanish
Catholicism, more serious, more ... classic.

The arrival of these meditations interrupted Maltrana.

- What does Don Pepe? ...

And accompanied by the familiar greeting with a gentle pat on the
abdomen of the clergy.

He leaned smiling. "What Don Isidro so cheerful and nice! ... It was impossible to be angry
with him ... "

To see together the two friends, the priest seemed to shrink in his humility.

- You have to talk - he said, looking at his watch -. Will be noon. Lunch time! I need a little tour to whet
your appetite.

And he walked away, followed by the laughter of Maltrana, which ironically lamented the lack
of appetite of the priest.

Ojeda asked what his friend had spoken with the father Martorell and Nelida.

- We were talking business - Isidro said with sudden gravity and an expression of mystery -
a big business that we hand. Who knows, within a year I'll be rich, very rich, but you, who wants
to go to the desert to plow the earth ... Friendships serve much, and I have them good.

The quizzical look and amazed Ojeda invited to continue in their confidence. Doubted a moment, as
if he feared the ridicule of his friend, then said resolutely:

- We will establish a bank just come to Buenos Aires ... Do not laugh,
Fernando; me as expected.

Is serious. Martorell puts the idea and technical experience. Mr. Kasper, Nelida's father, will
the capital needed to start off little, according to Catalan much of this understanding. I
... I do not know what I put into the business, but surely I will something, then I enter it,
and my associates seem happy to have me in their company.

Ojeda he fell out laughing so hard that his back hit the railing, bending the outside. "Maltrana
banker Maltrana founder of a bank when he was a bit of money to land !...»

- Do not make fun - he said, somewhat piqued -.

The thing is no big deal. Are we going or not going to land of riches and wonders? ... If you hear
that guy Catalan, the simplicity explaining things that convince the Bank is serious business.
And what's the big deal I get to be a great banker in a country where everyone, upon arrival,
change professions and each is found with powers and skills that are not suspected in Europe?
... Here in ship do not hear more than the millions and great business. We all have our gigantic
plan to amaze the New World and chained to fortune. Even those who became America's desperate
return with renewed vigor. Why not have Maltrana your business?

... Believe me, those who have founded banks were not worth more than that I never had the talent
Martorell, an eagle for these things.

After the first access of hilarity, Ojeda admired the conviction with which he spoke his Friend
of future business. He felt, indeed, the mysterious influence he had observed him on previous trips.
A broadening of the illusion, even more absurd ends unreal, dominated travelers. The isolation
in the middle of the ocean or nullified dwarfed all the obstacles encountered living on the mainland.
The immensity of the sea was dilate the brain and eyes. They thought big and they saw their
own ideas with retinas increase. And as the illusion of a no obstacles opposed to the hope of
others, all jostled wildly, assuming things done in this galloping
optimism.

Seat neighbors, during the first days of sailing had been regarded with hostility on the promenade
deck, buscábanse now, unable to live apart, and spoke hours future business hours designed
in partnership, without getting tired of fiddling to appreciate best merit, examining, as a precious
stone, facet by facet. A breath of heroism contemptuous of obstacles brains rattled. Old Europe,
meticulous, cowardly and retard, left behind, the propellers sent
by the frothing waters broken as a derogatory spittlebugs goodbye.

For the wind came ahead of the New World, breathing a land of courageous
without scruples or regrets, where the absurd wins, always it is accompanied
by the tenacity and courage.

If a business is required to land, the
land would be acquired. Future winners not know how or by what means,
but would be paid, y. .. enough. This was a little detail importance.
If required large capital, would be alike. There was no worry about
this. What was important was the business, the big business of great
novelty it had happened - news that was something old and traditional
transplanting of Europe - and calculated the safe gains: a month as
both a year, many millions at five years, believing in illusion strength
near the end of this fast run of luck. 

Some, with endless generosity,
they felt the desire to share his great fortune all relatives, and
every morning they admitted a new partner, graciously offered some
a new subsidiary, to the point of not knowing for sure what it would
deprive them of great inventors. Other, coarser soul, began to look
with suspicion and suspicious surveillance mutual fear of betrayal
in the business was yet to come. Hearts wealth shrinks and hardens.
Most extraordinary was that everyone detested the imagination and
a disgraceful and ridiculous power. 'No illusions: we must see things
as they are, and placed the case of exaggerating the worst. Let's
say you only win half, say that is only half of the half ... "And
after these calculations down, revealing his hatred all fantasy, always
turned millionaires.

The most enthusiastic and unwavering faith were
those who had been to America and returned to her a second or third
time. The newcomers, who listened with astonishment their prophecies
of wealth, suddenly seemed to doubt. European timidity was revived.
"I've been there, and I know what is that - said the old fellow -.
No fear, this time in my experience, I am confident of success ...
And Maltrana, mocking and skeptical, I was going to America without
knowing certainly why, he had been suddenly taken away, like the others,
for this hurricane optimism.

- Yes, sir, a bank - looking at Ojeda
repeated expression somewhat aggressive -. Oline was full of indignation--surely the Lord Almighty must turn away
His face from His creatures! How easy it would have been for Axel to lead out a cow from its
stall, and bring it to her and say: "Here's a cow for you, Oline." But no. Not a word of it.

Well, let him wait--wait and see if it might not come to cost him more than the worth of a
cow in the end!

All through that summer, Oline kept a look-out for every passer-by, and whispered to them and
nodded and confided things to them in secret. "But never a word I've said," so she charged
them every time. Oline went down to the village, too, more than once. And now there were rumours
and talk of things about the place, ay, drifting like a fog, settling on faces and getting
into ears; even the children going to school at Breidablik began nodding secrets among themselves.
And at last the Lensmand had to take it up; had to bestir himself and report it, and ask for
instructions. Then he came up with a book to write in and an assistant to help him; came up
to Maaneland one day and investigated things and wrote things down, and went back again. But
three weeks after, he came up once more, investigating and writing down again, and this time,
he opened a little green mound by the stream, and took out the body of a child. Oline was an
invaluable help to him; and in return he had to answer a host of questions she put. Among other
things, he said yes, it might perhaps come to having Axel arrested too. At that, Oline clasped
her hands in dismay at all the wickedness she had got mixed up with here, and only wished she
were out of the place, far away from it all. "But the girl," she whispered, "what about Barbro
herself?"

"The girl Barbro," said the Lensmand, "she's under arrest now in Bergen. The law must take
its course," said he. And he took the little body and went back again to the village....

Little wonder, then, that Axel Ström was anxious. He had spoken out to the Lensmand and denied
nothing; he was in part responsible for the coming of the child at all, and in addition, he
had dug a grave for it. And now he was asking Geissler what he had better do next. Would he
have to go in to the town, to a new and worse examination, and be tortured there?

Geissler was not the man he had been--no; and the long story had wearied him, he seemed duller
now, whatever might be the cause. He was not the bright and confident soul he had been that
morning. He looked at his watch, got up, and said:

"This'll want thinking over. I'll go into it thoroughly and let you know before I leave."

And Geissler went off.

He came back to Sellanraa that evening, had a little supper, and went to bed. Slept till late
next morning, slept, rested thoroughly; he was tired, no doubt, after his meeting with the
Swedish mine-owners. Not till two days after did he make ready to leave. He was his lordly
self again by then, paid liberally for his keep, and gave little Rebecca a shining Krone.

He made a speech to Isak, and said: "It doesn't matter in the least if nothing came of the
deal this time, it'll come all right later on. For the present, I'm going to stop the working
up there and leave it a bit. As for those fellows--children! Thought they would teach me, did
they? Did you hear what they offered me? Twenty-five thousand!"

"Ay," said Isak.

"Well," said Geissler, and waved his hand as if dismissing all impertinent offers of insignificant
sums from his mind, "well, it won't do any harm to the district if I do stop the working there
a bit--on the contrary, it'll teach folk to stick to their land. But they'll feel it in the
village. They made a pile of money there last summer; fine clothes and fine living for all--but
there's an end of that now. Ay, it might have been worth their while, the good folks down there,
to have kept in with me; things might have been different then. Now, it'll be as I please."

But for all that, he did not look much of a man to control the fate of villages, as he went
away. He carried a parcel of food in his hand, and his white waistcoat was no longer altogether
clean. His good wife might have equipped him for the journey up this time out of the rest of
the forty thousand she had once got--who could say, perhaps she had. Anyhow, he was going back
poor enough.

He did not forget to look in at Axel Ström on the way down, and give the results of his thinking
over. "I've been looking at it every way," said he. "The matter's in abeyance for the present,
so there's nothing to be done just yet. You'll be called up for a further examination, and
you'll have to say how things are...."

Words, nothing more. Geissler had probably never given the matter a thought at all. And Axel
agreed dejectedly to all he said. But at last Geissler flickered up into a mighty man again,
puckered his brows, and said thoughtfully: "Unless, perhaps, I could manage to come to town
myself and watch the proceedings."

"Ay, if you'd be so good," said Axel.

Geissler decided in a moment. "I'll see if I can manage it, if I can get the time. But I've
a heap of things to look after down south. I'll come if I can. Good-bye for now. I'll send
you those machines all right."

And Geissler went.

Would he ever come again?

Chapter VI

The rest of the workmen came down from the mine. Work is stopped. The fjeld lies dead again.

The building at Sellanraa, too, is finished now. There is a makeshift roof of turf put on for
the winter; the great space beneath is divided into rooms, bright apartments, a great salon
in the middle and large rooms at either end, as if it were for human beings. Here Isak once
lived in a turf hut together with a few goats--there is no turf hut to be seen now at Sellanraa.

Loose boxes, mangers, and bins are fitted up. The two stoneworkers are still busy, kept on
to get the whole thing finished as soon as possible, but Gustaf is no hand at woodwork, so
he says, and he is leaving. Gustaf has been a splendid lad at the stonework, heaving and lifting
like a bear; and in the evenings, a joy and delight to all, playing his mouth-organ, not to
speak of helping the womenfolk, carrying heavy pails to and from the river. But he is going
now. No, Gustaf is no hand at woodwork, so he says. It looks almost as if he were in a hurry
to get away.

"Can't it wait till tomorrow?" says Inger.

No, it can't wait, he's no more work to do here, and besides, going now, he will have company
across the hills, going over with the last; gang from the mines.

"And who's to help me with my buckets now?" says Inger, smiling sadly.

But Gustaf is never at a loss, he has his answer ready, and says "Hjalmar." Now Hjalmar was
the younger of the two stoneworkers, but neither of them was young as Gustaf himself, none
like him in any way.

"Hjalmar--huh!" says Inger contemptuously. Then suddenly she changes her tone, and turns to
Gustaf, thinking to make him jealous. "Though, after all, he's nice to have on the place, is
Hjalmar," says she, "and so prettily he sings and all."

"Don't think much of him, anyway," says Gustaf. He does not seem jealous in the least.

"But you might stay one more night at least?"

No, Gustaf couldn't stay one more night--he was going across with the others.

Ay, maybe Gustaf was getting tired of the game by now. 'Twas a fine thing to snap her up in
front of all the rest, and have her for his own the few weeks he was there--but he was going
elsewhere now, like as not to a sweetheart at home--he had other things in view. Was he to
stay on loafing about here for the sake of her? He had reason enough for bringing the thing
to an end, as she herself must know; but she was grown so bold, so thoughtless of any consequence,
she seemed to care for nothing. No, things had not held for so very long between them--but
long enough to last out the spell of his work there.

Inger is sad and down-hearted enough; ay, so erringly faithful that she mourns for him. 'Tis
hard for her; she is honestly in love, without any thought of vanity or conquest. And not ashamed,
no; she is a strong woman full of weakness; she is but following the law of nature all about
her; it is the glow of autumn in her as in all things else. Her breast heaves with feeling
as she packs up food for Gustaf to take with him. No thought of whether she has the right,
of whether she dare risk this or that; she gives herself up to it entirely, hungry to taste,
to enjoy. Isak might lift her up to the roof and thrust her to the floor again--ay, what of
that! It would not make her feel the less.

She goes out with the parcel to Gustaf.

Now she had set the bucket by the steps on purpose, in case he should care to go with her to
the river just once more. Maybe she would like to say something, to give him some little thing--her
gold ring; Heaven knows, she was in a state to do anything. But there must be an end of it
some time; Gustaf thanks her, says good-bye, and goes.

And there she stands.

"Hjalmar!" she calls out aloud--oh, so much louder than she need. As if she were determined
to be gay in spite of all--or crying out in distress.

Gustaf goes on his way....

       *       *       *       *       *

All through that autumn there was the usual work in the fields all round, right away down to
the village: potatoes to be taken up, corn to be got in, the horned cattle let loose over the
ground. Eight farms there are now and all are busy; but at the trading station, at Storborg,
there are no cattle, and no green lands, only a garden. And there is no trade there now, and
nothing for any to be busy about there.

They have a new root crop at Sellanraa called turnips, sending up a colossal growth of green
waving leaves out of the earth, and nothing can keep the cows away from them--the beasts break
down all hedgework, and storm in, bellowing. Nothing for it but to set Leopoldine and little
Rebecca to keep guard over the turnip fields, and little Rebecca walks about with a big stick
in her hand and is a wonder at driving cows away. Her father is at work close by; now and again
he comes up to feel her hands and feet, and ask if she is cold. Leopoldine is big and grown
up now; she can knit stockings and mittens for the winter while she is watching the herds.
Born in Trondhjem, was Leopoldine, and came to Sellanraa five years old. But the memory of
a great town with many people and of a long voyage on a steamer is slipping away from her now,
growing more and more distant; she is a child of the wilds and knows nothing now of the great
world beyond the village down below where she has been to church once or twice, and where she
was confirmed the year before....

And the little casual work of every day goes on, with this thing and that to be done beside;
as, for instance, the road down below, that is getting bad one or two places. The ground is
still workable, and Isak goes down one day with Sivert, ditching and draining the road. There
are two patches of bog to be drained.

Axel Ström has promised to take part in the work, seeing that he has a horse and uses the road
himself--but Axel had pressing business in the town just then. Heaven knows what it could be,
but very pressing, he said it was. But he had asked his brother from Breidablik to work with
them in his stead.

Fredrik was this brother's name. A young man, newly married, a light-hearted fellow who could
make a jest, but none the worse for that; Sivert and he are something alike. Now Fredrik had
looked in at Storborg on his way up that morning, Aronsen of Storborg being his nearest neighbour,
and he is full of all the trader has been telling him. It began this way; Fredrik wanted a
roll of tobacco. "I'll give you a roll of tobacco when I have one," said Aronsen.

"What, you've no tobacco in the place?"

"No, nor won't order any. There's nobody to buy it. What d'you think I make out of one roll
of tobacco?"

Ay, Aronsen had been in a nasty humour that morning, sure enough; felt he had been cheated
somehow by that Swedish mining concern. Here had he set up a store out in the wilds, and then
they go and shut down the work altogether!

Fredrik smiles slyly at Aronsen, and makes fun of him now. "He's not so much as touched that
land of his," says he, "and hasn't even feed for his beasts, but must go and buy it. Asked
me if I'd any hay to sell. No, I'd no hay to sell. 'Ho, d'you mean you don't want to make money?'
said Aronsen. Thinks money's everything in the world, seems like. Puts down a hundred-Krone
note on the counter, and says 'Money!' 'Ay, money's well enough,' says I. 'Cash down,' says
he. Ay, he's just a little bit touched that way, so to speak, and his wife she goes about with
a watch and chain and all on weekdays--Lord He knows what can be she's so set on remembering
to the minute."

Says Sivert: "Did Aronsen say anything about a man named Geissler?"

"Ay. Said something about he'd be wanting to sell some land he'd got. And Aronsen was wild
about it, he was--'fellow that used to be Lensmand and got turned out,' he said, and 'like
as not without so much as a five Krone in his books, and ought to be shot!' 'Ay, but wait a
bit,' says I, 'and maybe he'll sell after all.' 'Nay,' says Aronsen, 'don't you believe it.
I'm a business man,' says he, 'and I know--when one party puts up a price of two hundred and
fifty thousand, and the other offers twenty-five thousand, there's too big a difference; there'll
be no deal ever come out of that. Well, let 'em go their own way, and see what comes of it,'
says he. 'I only wish I'd never set my foot in this hole, and a poor thing it's been for me
and mine.' Then I asked him if he didn't think of selling out himself. 'Ay,' says he, 'that's
just what I'm thinking of. This bit of bogland,' says he, 'a hole and a desert--I'm not making
a single Krone the whole day now,' says he."

They laughed at Aronsen, and had no pity for him at all.

"Think he'll sell out?" asks Isak.

"Well, he did speak of it. And he's got rid of the lad he had already. Ay, a curious man, a
queer sort of man, that Aronsen, 'tis sure. Sends away his lad could be working on the place
getting in winter fuel and carting hay with that horse of his, but keeps on his storeman--chief
clerk, he calls him. 'Tis true enough, as he says, not selling so much as a Krone all day,
for he's no stock in the place at all. And what does he want with a chief clerk, then? I doubt
it'll be just by way of looking grand and making a show, must have a man there to stand at
a desk and write up things in books. Ha ha ha! ay, looks like he's just a little bit touched
that way, is Aronsen."

The three men worked till noon, ate food from their baskets, and talked a while. They had matters
of their own to talk over, matters of good and ill to folk on the land; no trifles, to them,
but things to be discussed warily; they are clear-minded folk, their nerves unworn, and not
flying out where they should not. It is the autumn season now, a silence in the woods all round;
the hills are there, the sun is there, and at evening the moon and the stars will come; all
regular and certain, full of kindliness, an embrace. Men have time to rest here, to lie in
the heather, with an arm for a pillow.

Fredrik talks of Breidablik, how 'tis but little he's got done there yet awhile.

"Nay," says Isak, "'tis none so little already, I saw when I was down that way."

This was praise from the oldest among them, the giant himself, and Fredrik might well be pleased.
He asks frankly enough: "Did you think so, now? Well, it'll be better before long. I've had
a deal of things to hinder this year; the house to do up, being leaky and like to fall to pieces;
hayloft to take down and put up again, and no sort of room in the turf hut for beasts, seeing
I'd cow and heifer more than Brede he'd ever had in his time," says Fredrik proudly.

"And you're thriving like, up here?" asks Isak.

"Ay, I'll not say no. And wife, she's thriving too, why shouldn't we? There's good room and
outlook all about; we can see up and down the road both ways. And a neat little copse by the
house all pretty to look at, birch and willow--I'll plant a bit more other side of the house
when I've time. And it's fine to see how the bogland's dried only since last year's ditching--'tis
all a question now what'll grow on her this year. Ay, thrive? When we've house and home and
land and all--'tis enough for the two of us surely."

"Ho," says Sivert slyly, "and the two of you--is that all there's ever to be?"

"Why, as to that," says Fredrik bravely, "'tis like enough there'll be more to come. And as
to thriving--well, the wife's not falling off anyway, by the looks of her."

They work on until evening, drawing up now and again to straighten their backs, and exchange
a word or so.

"And so you didn't get the tobacco?" says Sivert.

"No, that's true. But 'twas no loss, for I've no use for it, anyway," says Fredrik.

"No use for tobacco?"

"Nay. 'Twas but for to drop in at Aronsen's like, and hear what he'd got to say." And the two
jesters laughed together at that.

On the way home, father and son talk little, as was their way; but Isak must have been thinking
out something for himself; he says:

"Sivert?"

"Ay?" says Sivert again.

"Nay, 'twas nothing."

They walk on a good ways, and Isak begins again:

"How's he get on, then, with his trading, Aronsen, when he's nothing to trade with?"

"Nay," says Sivert. "But there's not folk enough here now for him to buy for."

"Ho, you think so? Why, I suppose 'tis so, ay, well...."

Sivert wondered a little at this. After a while his father went on again:

"There's but eight places now in all, but there might be more before long. More ... well, I
don't know...."

Sivert wondering more than ever--what can his father be getting at? The pair of them walk on
a long way in silence; they are nearly home now.

"H'm," says Isak. "What you think Aronsen he'd ask for that place of his now?"

"Ho, that's it!" says Sivert. "Want to buy it, do you?" he asks jestingly. But suddenly he
understands what it all means: 'tis Eleseus the old man has in mind. Oh, he's not forgotten
him after all, but kept him faithfully in mind, just as his mother, only in his own way, nearer
earth, and nearer to Sellanraa.

"'Twill be going for a reasonable price, I doubt," says Sivert. And when Sivert says so much,
his father knows the lad has read his thought. And as if in fear of having spoken out too clearly,
he falls to talking of their road-mending; a good thing they had got it done at last.

For a couple of days after that, Sivert and his mother were putting their heads together and
holding councils and whispering--ay, they even wrote a letter. And when Saturday came round
Sivert suddenly wanted to go down to the village.

"What you want to go down village again for now?" said his father in displeasure. "Wearing
boots to rags...." Oh, Isak was more bitter than need be; he knew well enough that Sivert was
going to the post.

"Going to church," says Sivert.

'Twas all he could find by way of excuse, and his father muttered:" Well, what you want to
go for ...?"

But if Sivert was going to church, why, he might harness up and take little Rebecca with him.
Little Rebecca, ay, surely she might have that bit of a treat for once in her life, after being
so clever guarding turnips and being all ways the pearl and blessing of them all, ay, that
she was. And they harnessed up, and Rebecca had the maid Jensine to look after her on the way,
and Sivert said never a word against that either.

While they are away, it so happens that Aronsen's man, his chief clerk, from Storborg, comes
up the road. What does this mean? Why, nothing very much, 'tis only Andresen, the chief clerk
from Storborg, come up for a bit of a walk this way--his master having sent him. Nothing more.
And no great excitement among the folk at Sellanraa over that--'twas not as in the old days,
when a stranger was a rare sight on their new land, and Inger made a great to-do. No, Inger's
grown quieter now, and keeps to herself these days.

A strange thing that book of devotion, a guide upon the way, an arm round one's neck, no less.
When Inger had lost hold of herself a little, lost her way a little out plucking berries, she
found her way home again by the thought of her little chamber and the holy book; ay, she was
humble now and a Godfearing soul. She can remember long years ago when she would say an evil
word if she pricked her finger sewing--so she had learned to do from her fellow-workers round
the big table in the Institute. But now she pricks her finger, and it bleeds, and she sucks
the blood away in silence. 'Tis no little victory gained to change one's nature so. And Inger
did more than that. When all the workmen were gone, and the stone building was finished, and
Sellanraa was all forsaken and still, then came a critical time for Inger; she cried a deal,
and suffered much. She blamed none but herself for it all, and she was deeply humbled. If only
she could have spoken out to Isak, and relieved her mind, but that was not their way at Sellanraa;
there was none of them would talk their feelings and confess things. All she could do was to
be extra careful in the way she asked her husband to come in to meals, going right up to him
to say it nicely, instead of shouting from the door. And in the evenings, she looked over his
clothes, and sewed buttons on. Ay, and even more she did. One night she lifted up on her elbow
and said:

"Isak?"

"What is it?" says Isak.

"Are you awake?"

"Ay."

"Nay, 'twas nothing," says Inger. "But I've not been all as I ought."

"What?" says Isak. Ay, so much he said, and rose up on his elbow in turn.

They lay there, and went on talking. Inger is a matchless woman, after all; and with a full
heart, "I've not been as I ought towards you," she says, "and I'm that sorry about it."

The simple words move him; this barge of a man is touched, ay, he wants to comfort her, knowing
nothing of what is the matter, but only that there is none like her. "Naught to cry about,
my dear," says Isak. "There's none of us can be as we ought."

"Nay, 'tis true," she answers gratefully. Oh, Isak had a strong, sound way of taking things;
straightened them out, he did, when they turned crooked. "None of us can be as we ought." Ay,
he was right. The god of the heart--for all that he is a god, he goes a deal of crooked ways,
goes out adventuring, the wild thing that he is, and we can see it in his looks. One day rolling
in a bed of roses and licking his lips and remembering things; next day with a thorn in his
foot, desperately trying to get it out. Die of it? Never a bit, he's as well as ever. A nice
look-out it would be if he were to die!

And Inger's trouble passed off too; she got over it, but she keeps on with her hours of devotion,
and finds a merciful refuge there. Hard-working and patient and good she is now every day,
knowing Isak different from all other men, and wanting none but him. No gay young spark of
a singer, true, in his looks and ways, but good enough, ay, good enough indeed! And once more
it is seen that the fear of the Lord and contentment therewith are a precious gain.

And now it was that the little chief clerk from Storborg, Andresen, came up to Sellanraa one
Sunday, and Inger was not in the least affected, far from it; she did not so much as go in
herself to give him a mug of milk, but sent Leopoldine in with it, by reason that Jensine the
maid was out. And Leopoldine could carry a mug of milk as well as need be, and she gave it
him and said, "Here you are," and blushed, for all she was wearing her Sunday clothes and had
nothing to be ashamed of, anyway.

"Thanks, 'tis overkind of you," says Andresen. "Is your father at home?" says he.

"Ay; he'll be about the place somewhere."

Andresen drank and wiped his mouth with a handkerchief and looked at the time. "Is it far up
to the mines?" he asked.

"No, 'tis an hour's walk, or hardly that."

"I'm going up to look over them, d'you see, for him, Aronsen--I'm his chief clerk."

"Ho!"

"You'll know me yourself, no doubt; I'm Aronsen's chief clerk. You've been down buying things
at our place before."

"Ay."

"And I remember you well enough," says Andresen. "You've been down twice buying things."

"'Tis more than could be thought, you'd remember that," says Leopoldine, and had no more strength
after that, but stood holding by a chair.

But Andresen had strength enough, he went on, and said: "Remember you? Well, of course I should."
And he said more:

"You wouldn't like to walk up to the mine with me?" said he.

And a little after something went wrong with Leopoldine's eyes; everything turned red and strange
about her, and the floor was slipping away from under, and Chief Clerk Andresen was talking
from somewhere ever so far off. Saying: "Couldn't you spare the time?"

"No," says she.

And Heaven knows how she managed to get out of the kitchen again. Her mother looked at her
and asked what was the matter. "Nothing," said Leopoldine.

Nothing, no, of course. But now, look you, 'twas Leopoldine's turn to be affected, to begin
the same eternal round. She was well fitted for the same, overgrown and pretty and newly confirmed;
an excellent sacrifice she would make. A bird is fluttering in her young breast, her long hands
are like her mother's, full of tenderness, full of sex. Could she dance?--ay, indeed she could.
A marvel where she had managed to learn it, but learn it they did at Sellanraa as well as elsewhere.
Sivert could dance, and Leopoldine too; a kind of dancing peculiar to the spot, growth of the
new-cleared soil; a dance with energy and swing: schottische, mazurka, waltz and polka in one.
And could not Leopoldine deck herself out and fall in love and dream by daylight all awake?
Ay, as well as any other! The day she stood in church she was allowed to borrow her mother's
gold ring to wear; no sin in that, 'twas only neat and nice; and the day after, going to her
communion, she did not get the ring on till it was over. Ay, she might well show herself in
church with a gold ring on her finger, being the daughter of a great man on the place--the
Margrave.

When Andresen came down from the mine, he found Isak at Sellanraa, and they asked him in, gave
him dinner and a cup of coffee. All the folk on the place were in there together now, and took
part in the conversation. Andresen explained that his master, Aronsen, had sent him up to see
how things were at the mines, if there was any sign of beginning work there again soon. Heaven
knows, maybe Andresen sat there lying all the time, about being sent by his master; he might
just as well have hit on it for his own account--and anyway, he couldn't have been at the mines
at all in the little time he'd been away.

"'Tis none so easy to see from outside if they're going to start work again," said Isak.

No, Andresen admitted that was so; but Aronsen had sent him, and after all, two pair of eyes
could see better than one.

But here Inger seemingly could contain herself no longer; she asked: "Is it true what they're
saying, Aronsen is going to sell his place again?"

Andresen answers: "He's thinking of it. And a man like him can surely do as he likes, seeing
all the means and riches he's got."

"Ho, is he so rich, then?"

"Ay," says Andresen, nodding his head; "rich enough, and that's a true word."

Again Inger cannot keep silence, but asks right out:

"I wonder, now, what he'd be asking for the place?"

Isak puts in a word here; like as not he's more curious to know than Inger herself, but it
must not seem that the idea of buying Storborg is any thought of his; he makes himself a stranger
to it, and says now:

"Why, what you want to know for, Inger?"

"I was but asking," says she. And both of them look at Andresen, waiting. And he answers:

Answers cautiously enough that as to the price, he can say nothing of that, but he knows what
Aronsen says the place has cost him.

"And how much is that?" asks Inger, having no strength to keep her peace and be silent.

"'Tis sixteen hundred Kroner" says Andresen.

Ho, and Inger claps her hands at once to hear it, for if there is one thing womenfolk have
no sense nor thought of, 'tis the price of land and properties. But, anyway, sixteen hundred
Kroner is no small sum for folk in the wilds, and Inger has but one fear, that Isak may be
frightened off the deal. But Isak, he sits there just exactly like a fjeld, and says only:
"Ay, it's the big houses he's put up."

"Ay," says Andresen again, "'tis just that. 'Tis the fine big houses and all."

Just when Andresen is making ready to go, Leopoldine slips out by the door. A strange thing,
but somehow she cannot bring herself to think of shaking hands with him. So she has found a
good place, standing in the new cowshed, looking out of a window. And with a blue silk ribbon
round her neck, that she hadn't been wearing before, and a wonder she ever found time to put
it on now. There he goes, a trifle short and stout, spry on his feet, with a light, full beard,
eight or ten years older than herself. Ay, none so bad-looking to her mind!

And then the party came back from church late on Sunday night. All had gone well, little Rebecca
had slept the last few hours of the way up, and was lifted from the cart and carried indoors
without waking. Sivert has heard a deal of news, but when his mother asks, "Well, what you've
got to tell?" he only says: "Nay, nothing much. Axel he's got a mowing-machine and a harrow."

"What's that?" says his father, all interested. "Did you see them?"

"Ay, I saw them right enough. Down on the quay."

"Ho! So that was what he must go in to town for," says his father. And Sivert sits there swelling
with pride at knowing better, but says never a word.

His father might just as well believe that Axel's pressing business in the town had been to
buy machines; his mother too might think so for all that. Ho, but there was neither of them
thought so in their hearts; they had heard whispers enough of what was the matter; of a new
child-murder case in the wilds.

"Time for bed," says his father at last.

Sivert goes off to bed, swelling with knowledge. Axel had been summoned for examination; 'twas
a big affair--the Lensmand had gone with him--so big indeed that the Lensmand's lady, who had
just had another child, had left the baby and was gone in to town with her husband. She had
promised to put in a word to the jury herself.

Gossip and scandal all abroad in the village now, and Sivert saw well enough that a certain
earlier crime of the same sort was being called to mind again. Outside the church, the groups
would stop talking as he came up, and had he not been the man he was, perhaps some would have
turned away from him. Good to be Sivert those days, a man from a big place to begin with, son
of a wealthy landowner--and then beside, to be known as a clever fellow, a good worker; he
ranked before others, and was looked up to for himself. Sivert had always been well liked among
folk. If only Jensine did not learn too much before they got home that day! And Sivert had
his own affairs to think of--ay, folk in the wilds can blush and pale as well as other. He
had seen Jensine as she left the church with little Rebecca; she had seen him too, but went
by. He waited a bit, and then drove over to the smith's to fetch them.

They were sitting at table, all the family at dinner. Sivert is asked to join them, but has
had his dinner, thanks. They knew he would be coming, they might have waited that bit of a
while for him--so they would have done at Sellanraa, but not here, it seemed.

"Nay, 'tis not what you're used to, I dare say," says the smith's wife. And, "What news from
church?" says the smith, for all he had been at church himself.

When Jensine and little Rebecca were seated up in the cart again, says the smith's wife to
her daughter: "Well, good-bye, Jensine; we'll be wanting you home again soon." And that could
be taken two ways, thought Sivert, but he said nothing. If the speech had been more direct,
more plain and outspoken, he might perhaps ... He waits, with puckered brows, but no more is said.

They drive up homeward, and little Rebecca is the only one with a word to say; she is full
of the wonder of going to church, the priest in his dress with a silver cross, and the lights
and the organ music. After a long while Jensine says: "'Tis a shameful thing about Barbro and all."

"What did your mother mean about you coming home soon?" asked Sivert.

"What she meant?"

"Ay. You thinking of leaving us, then?"

"Why, they'll be wanting me home some time, I doubt," says she.

"Ptro!" says Sivert, stopping his horse. "Like me to drive back with you now, perhaps?"

Jensine looks at him; he is pale as death.

"No," says she. And a little after she begins to cry.

Rebecca looks in surprise from one to the other. Oh, but little Rebecca was a good one to have
on a journey like that; she took Jensine's part and patted her and made her smile again. And
when little Rebecca looked threateningly at her brother and said she was going to jump down
and find a big stick to beat him, Sivert had to smile too.

"But what did you mean, now, I'd like to know?" says Jensine.

Sivert answered straight out at once: "I meant, if you don't care to stay with us, why, we
must manage without."

And a long while after, said Jensine: "Well, there's Leopoldine, she's big now, and fit and
all to do my work, seems."

Ay, 'twas a sorrowful journey.

Chapter VII

A man walks up the way through the hills. Wind and rain; the autumn downpour has begun, but
the man cares little for that, he looks glad at heart, and glad he is. 'Tis Axel Ström, coming
back from the town and the court and all--they have let him go free. Ay, a happy man--first
of all, there's a mowing-machine and a harrow for him down at the quay, and more than that,
he's free, and not guilty. Had taken no part in the killing of a child. Ay, so things can turn out!

But the times he had been through! Standing there as a witness, this toiler in the fields had
known the hardest days of his life. 'Twas no gain to him to make Barbro's guilt seem greater,
and for that reason he was careful not to say too much, he did not even say all he knew; every
word had to be dragged out of him, and he answered mostly with but "Yes" and "No." Was it not
enough? Was he to make more of it than there was already? Oh, but there were times when it
looked serious indeed; there were the men of Law, black-robed and dangerous, easy enough for
them, it seemed, just with a word or so, to turn the whole thing as they pleased, and have
him sentenced. But they were kindly folk after all, and did not try to bring him to destruction.
Also, as it happened, there were powerful influences at work trying to save Barbro, and it
was all to his advantage as well.

Then what on earth was there for him to trouble about?

Barbro herself would hardly try to make things look worse than need be for her former master
and lover; he knew terrible things about this and an earlier affair of the same sort; she could
not be such a fool. No, Barbro was clever enough; she said a good word for Axel, and declared
that he had known nothing of her having borne a child till after it was all over. He was different
in some ways, perhaps, from other men, and they did not always get on well together, but a
quiet man, and a good man in every way. No, it was true he had dug a new grave and buried the
body away there, but that was long after, and by reason he had thought the first place was
not dry enough, though indeed it was, and 'twas only Axel's odd way of thinking.

What need, then, for Axel to fear at all when Barbro took all the blame on herself that way?
And as for Barbro herself, there were mighty influences at work.

Fru Lensmand Heyerdahl had taken up the case. She went about to high and low, never sparing
herself, demanded to be called as a witness, and made a speech in court. When her turn came,
she stood there before them all and was a great lady indeed; she took up the question of infanticide
in all its aspects, and gave the court a long harangue on the subject--it almost seemed as
if she had obtained permission beforehand to say what she pleased. Ay, folk might say what
they would of Fru Lensmand Heyerdahl, but make a speech, that she could, and was learned in
politics and social questions, no doubt about that. 'Twas a marvel where she found all her
words. Now and again the presiding justice seemed wishful to keep her to the point, but maybe
he had not the heart to interrupt, and let her run on. And at the end of it all, she volunteered
one or two useful items of information, and made a startling offer to the court.

Leaving out all legal technicalities, what took place was this:

"We women," said Fru Heyerdahl, "we are an unfortunate and oppressed moiety of humanity. It
is the men who make the laws, and we women have not a word to say in the matter. But can any
man put himself in the position of a woman in childbirth? Has he ever felt the dread of it,
ever known the terrible pangs, ever cried aloud in the anguish of that hour?

"In the present instance, it is a servant-girl who has borne the child. A girl, unmarried,
and consequently trying all through the critical time to hide her condition. And why must she
seek to hide it? Because of society. Society despises the unmarried woman who bears a child.
Not only does society offer her no protection, but it persecutes her, pursues her with contempt
and disgrace. Atrocious! No human creature with any heart at all could help feeling indignant
at such a state of things. Not only is the girl to bring a child into the world, a thing in
itself surely hard enough, but she is to be treated as a criminal for that very fact. I will
venture to say that it was well for the unfortunate girl now accused before the court that
her child was born by accident when she fell into the water, and drowned. Well for herself
and for the child. As long as society maintains its present attitude, an unmarried mother should
be counted guiltless even if she does kill her child."

Here a slight murmur was heard from the presiding justice.

"Or at any rate, her punishment should be merely nominal," said Fru Heyerdahl. "We are all
agreed, of course," she went on, "that infant life should be preserved, but is that to mean
that no law of simple humanity is to apply to the unfortunate mother? Think, consider what
she has been through during all the period of pregnancy, what suffering she has endured in
striving to hide her condition, and all the time never knowing where to turn for herself and
the child when it comes. No man can imagine it," said she. "The child is at least killed in
kindness. The mother tries to save herself and the child she loves from the misery of its life.
The shame is more than she can bear, and so the plan gradually forms itself in her mind, to
put the child out of the way. The birth takes place in secret, and the mother is for four-and-twenty
hours in such a delirious state that at the moment of killing the child she is simply not responsible
for her actions. Practically speaking, she has not herself committed the act at all, being
out of her senses at the time. With every bone in her body aching still after her delivery,
she has to take the little creature's life and hide away the body--think what an effort of
will is demanded here! Naturally, we all wish all children to live; we are distressed at the
thought that any should be exterminated in such a way. But it is the fault of society that
it is so; the fault of a hopeless, merciless, scandalmongering, mischievous, and evil-minded
society, ever on the watch to crush an unmarried mother by every means in its power!

"But--even after such treatment at the hands of society, the persecuted mother can rise up
again. It often happens that these girls, after one false step of the sort, are led by that
very fact to develop their best and noblest qualities. Let the court inquire of the superintendents
at refuge homes, where unmarried mothers and their children are received, if this is not the
case. And experience has shown that it is just such girls who have--whom society has forced
to kill their own children, that make the best nurses. Surely that was a matter for any and
all to think seriously about?

"Then there is another side of the question. Why is the man to go free? The mother found guilty
of infanticide is thrust into prison and tortured, but the father, the seducer, he is never
touched. Yet being as he is the cause of the child's existence, he is a party to the crime;
his share in it, indeed, is greater than the mother's; had it not been for him, there would
have been no crime. Then why should he be acquitted? Because the laws are made by men. There
is the answer. Copper were demons of limp and greasy long hair covered by a tape eager to increase
with new cows and white females fortune of beasts and slaves who kept in their tolderías.

We
closed the facility as well as a fortress, and armed the employer
and their dependents with old rifles and shotguns kept under the counter
as professional tools.

In this fitting uníanse the parishioners of the adjacent camps, running for shelter with their families
at the bowling alley, the only brick building in many leagues around. With they entered the crews
of the strings of carts surprised by the raid in idle, grating, which lasted for weeks.

Sometimes the tornado passed by copper, attracted by the distant cattle estates; other laid
siege to the store, eager for money rather than barrels of beer.

Seething horde around the bowling, which launched its openings barriques lightning lead. The assailants,
crawling, trying to set fire to its doors. In moments of rest would kill the mares stolen
nearby and drank blood from a drunken uproar fierce. And this situation lasted for days, until it was
news to the forts and other Troop noted in the horizon, composed of riders with old uniforms,
armed worse and the swarm of mounted Indians, who fled to fill only anxious to put to save his
booty.

And Manzanares had met his first hundred dollars, enduring beatings and stealing the body to the
knife of the patrons drunk more fearsome than the Indians.

Upon returning to Buenos Aires, one of those diversions so common profession in the new lands,
the server cane vessels and pieces of dried meat had entered into a luxury clothing store. Your
employer sent him traveling around the country, and so had known going into care, assault
on the roads, sometimes by groups of indigenous, others' montoneras "guerrilla who stole from
people in the name of a provincial leader or a political party. The nation's civil unrest boiled
then, before finally crystallizing. There sleeping in the open, with no bed that the "message"
of his horse in the cold land South, or surrounded by clouds of mosquitoes in the Northern
fields. He had helped many times with traveling companions, to pull the coach stuck in a quagmire
they called road. At other times he was surprised a growing water which drowned the draft animals.

-
I think, gentlemen, then I caught the rest of my days this disease of the stomach, ending me
... I finally settle down, and I have my deposit in the streets Alsina, and Where you know, one
of the best deposits wholesale fine clothing for ladies, and I have clients throughout the Republic
and three hundred girls working in the workshops.

We not turn you, friend Goycochea: six million a year nothing but white clothes is an article
that leaves more than others. I'm going to Europe frequently, I visit our suppliers Hamburg,
Milan and Paris, I hear the news, and every five or six years I look out Spain and live in
my town for a few days. The priest takes me a bit of money on the pretext of repairs in the church,
the mayor asked me for school, for laundry, for a road, the pipers are all night outside the
house, he plays he plays, waiting for the cider. Nieces, who are I do not know how many, always ready
to release a child into the world when I arrived, and they want America's uncle sponsored him.
Everyone seems thrilled that my wife did not have children. When I was there last time, the mayor spoke
of putting my name to a street and a tombstone to the shack where I was born ... I have no position,
Mr. Goycochea, but I've done mine and sweat it cost me and you. I can retire at any time, for
children I have to maintain! ... But I have my farm law, which started as a pittance and now occupies
a quarter block. In addition, I have a partner, who rides for the job: a former dependent who
di participation. You know you signature: Manzanares and Mendizabal.

Childlessness seemed bitter victory, placing him in resentful inferiority to the Basque prolific.
But as compensation, eulogized his wife, courageous partner the early years of poverty and saving.
Could not be compared with Mrs. Goycochea, which he saw as a great lady of imposing majesty -
another source of envious resentment -.

Was a earth girl, who had ruled the house with fierce economy, ensuring that each dependent
eat what is necessary to stand up, without harming surfeits to health. The savings habit persisted
in her fortune to live in full, with a fondness to mix their bare arms in the lower house chores.
And Manzanares, who had "Run world," and every year, on his way to Paris, he knew the Montmartre
at night because "Man must see everything," began to believe that this fellow was not at the
level of his success trade, and thus had to forgo displaying it - as he held his Goycochea - fearing
certain neglect of their language. But an old sense of gratitude and one's own aesthetic tastes
made him break out in praise of her self esteem. Besides being very good, still retains made
a real girl.

- It's like your wife, friend Goycochea. Mine weighs one hundred kilos. What about you?

Goycochea made a gesture of sorrow. Reached even more, but Paris had put on a diet. Now it was
fashionable thinness.

- Mine weighs one hundred six - said Montaner, the merchant of Montevideo.

- Good! - Manzanares said with authority -. Good should be!

This man admired with enthusiasm skeletal concentrated, almost religious, the overwhelming feminine
exuberance as a sign of health, good honor and domestic virtues ... But Montaner, was considered
humiliated by the silence he left his companions, stopped Manzanares.

He also "had done theirs." The Oriental Republic lend unless Argentina to the vagaries of fortune
and quick success. The money was slow in its progress, and maybe because it's happened more
solid: people thought to hold more than acquire. Could not talk of millions as the companions,
but enjoyed a good move, since his death, children, if they were not ungrateful, would remember
that "old" had worked ...

- He is a great country, smaller than Argentina, but rich, very rich. Too bad it the land of
revolutions! ... The Uruguayan is good, gentlemanly, amateur things of thought, but too brave,
too handsome, convinced that failure of duty when held a few years without leaving the field
to kill. We are all beyond "white" or "red", and do not know what the hell is in the environment
that those who come, wherever they are, learn to speak only take sides with one or the other.
I myself, gentlemen, I am "white" whiter than paper, more white ... the milk, and my kids are
too. Two of them I went to the field in the last revolution. And if you ask me what is it
like to be 'White', I would say that after so many years I'm still well aware ... Maybe I did 'White'
to force.

And he related his arrival in Montevideo, forty years earlier, no other fortune than a cover letter
for a Catalan set inside. The country was in revolt, but the city had normal appearance. The
people were addressed in the street smiling, "What news of revolution? "the same as if they spoke
of the rain or the weather.

And Montaner out on a diligence, as the only passenger, to the town where his compatriot.

- A few hours later, men on horseback armed with lances, with red scarves around the neck, surrounding
the procedure. It was a patrol of "red." The chief spoke to the foreman. "What got there? "And
knowing that another passenger was not wearing a poor Spanish boy, some advanced riders head
through the windows. "Ah, Galleguitos," white "of sh ... cabbage! Let hair grow out so you better
let's cut your head when you grow up saying I !...» laughing, but I, who was only thirteen,
I crouched in a corner and wanted to get under seat. They left, and two hours later, near a
ranch, find another game horsemen, with spears, too, and with those who seem petticoat breeches
caragüelles collected in boots, but they wore white handkerchiefs around his neck. And the same
question: "What are you there? "And knowing that I was Spanish, smiles at the door the same
as if she knew lifetime. "Lower, boy, down and relax, you're among friends. Have a glass of
cane ... "Since then I had no doubt knew what I had to be in that country: white, always white.
Now the years have brought some confusion, and people from all backgrounds contained in the two sides.
But in my time, the Americans were all "red" and the Galician Basque and 'white', perhaps
because in the ranks of these had fought many Spanish from the First Carlist War ... The blood
has been spilled! Fighting no quarter, in which prisoners were not being accepted! ... I've seen
dozens of men beheaded as well as sheep.

Montaner was silent, as if he was obsessed by his memories.

- Now things have changed - he added -. Ancient armies are armies spears equipped with artillery,
prisoners are respected, the war is over "civilization"; but the war continues, and I think
people are killing it just for fun ... The country has been accustomed
to this life, and develops and progresses despite revolutions.

It's like some sick who finally understood their disease and live with it the most richly. But that
touch closely the consequences of these struggles! ...

He spoke with resignation of the delays of his fortune because of the war. "White" and 'red', in
his travels, he had eaten the best animals of their stay. Many went to war for the pleasure
of commanding with sword in hand, as if they were masters in the same land where they worked
as laborers in peacetime, for the sake of killing a bull manor and eat the tongue, leaving
the rest for the crows. He had long years of training in a hut stay fine horses, with expensive
players purchased in Europe. When resting, satisfied with his work, came one of many revolutions,
and a group of supporters bivouacked on their land, changing the
nag exhausted from the game for the best examples of the cabin.

And blooded animals died in the war or were abandoned on the roads, just as if they were beasts
rustic meager price.

- Total, some hundreds of thousands of dollars lost in a few hours - he said sadly -. Many are
excited about the exploits of both sides and see in them a continuation of value Spanish. "It
is the heritage of Spain ', say' white 'and' red 'to justify the need felt by revolutions and
coups. And I say, 'Lord, other republics of Also descended from Spanish America, and living without
regard to need for a revolution every two years ...».

Have you noticed that in the America of all things Spanish origin are always bad "things of Spain,
'and happens rarely attributed to a poor old woman for good? ...

- That's right - interrupted Maltrana -. I have tried in Paris Americans of Spanish origin of
all altitudes and latitudes, and except for a minority who has studied all of the same run So,
as if they taught this way of thinking in the school of first letters. Spain is to blame for
all his faults, responsible for all his faults. She is the author of revolutions of laziness
characteristic of warm climates of drunkenness to encourage cold
climates; of unbridled passion to play on people who never tasted
the pleasure reading; of unpredictability and lack of savings in countries
accustomed to abundance.

Some to the accused because the republic has few railroads ...

The three listeners nodded, suddenly reconciled with him. These men of feathers ... What nice
when did not get into business! ...

- However - continued - if they praise a good quality race was attributed to the Indians and
those who say that are grandchildren or great grandchildren of father and mother arrived Galician
and Basque to America in the late eighteenth century ... And if Indians are not the authors
of good, hang the miracle of the 'Latin race', which is nothing more than a historical fiction.
The "Spanish race" something positive which all perceive reality in the language and customs
barely set foot in America, just remember there and deserve when it comes to rail against the
evil of the past. The glory takes the "Latin race" that nobody knows
what is and what it is.

I know a Latin civilization, "but Latin race? Where is outside Italy? ... In short, gentlemen,
not be irritated. Perhaps these injustices do not happen to be an instinctive manifestation old
baby ... disoriented, filial love turned upside down.

Isidro was interrupted, jumping from his seat to see what happened before the windows cap white doctor
on board. The concussion of the temple reminded him suddenly with an itch its intention to consult painful.
Coffee came out saying goodbye to their compatriots quick greeting,
and reached the doctor, to show the livid bruise.

Rio kindly the German into consideration. Can he had taken his share of the feast of the night?
She wore healed some passengers who remained invisible in their cabins. The Maltrana was negligible.
After tea time was waiting in the pharmacy.

Left alone approached the conservatory, looking into a window. All were still occupying the
same places: Ojeda Power and marriage Mrs. Lowe, Dr. Zurita talking to two of his compatriots "of things
in the country." The father smiled Nelida through his beard of a
patriarch, explaining to a group of friends with suggestive and soft
hand wringing.

Perhaps exposing big business awaiting him in Buenos Aires, and who wanted to involve others
generously. Some passengers were removed, eyes narrowed by excess light, in search of his cabin
for a nap.

Maltrana felt herself attracted by the sound of buzzing beehive under
the big tent in the waist, between the central castle and the bow.

Could be seen through the interstices of people stretched canvas
on her stomach, asleep with her head in her arms, women recosían old
clothes chasing little boys.

Sounded in the distance a bagpipe with sweet muted, like a lament What tears pastoral melancholy
of exile away from the green meadows.

- Let's visit our friends "Latinos."

Came to the fore esplanade along a corridor of the lower deck. When you open the gate had to
apart a group of emigrants who crowded against the bars. They were people girl, boys who were
attracted by this obstacle, a visible symbol of the separation of classes.

Spent much of the day glued to it, exploring the long red carpeted hallway, intervals with large
white patches of shadow and light electrical. Doors first-class cabins were opened on both
sides of this passage, which seemed to them endless and magnificent, like a boulevard populated
by millionaires. Spied on from there the incoming and outgoing passengers. Continued to gaze
admiringly at the rhythmic motion ladies who came out of the small houses to be lost in a maze
of streets carpeted ascending to the upper floors of the ship, none of them had managed to
see, and rumors coming music and parties.

Respect for social hierarchy urging them to stacked against the fence, as if she descry a higher
world, keeping in envious silence every time a woman passed by close to them without looking.
When service needs were passing along this barrier to blonde waitresses, albo to clean apron
and cap, the waiters seemed contemplative despair and a rumor word
neighing scarves and waving his body contents.

Frequently appeared near the gate a nanny caring for a tiny German peliblanco and stubborn, which
was playing on all fours on the carpet with a cub bear. Seeing it, the boys smiled with sudden
confidence. Was of the same social class, and that was enough for untie the tongues and eyes brighten
with the glow of desire.

"Rica! ... Cute! ... Come, pledge, I have to tell you something !...» "Oh carina so beautiful!
"

Each strapping young man used language to externalize their enthusiasm. Some Arab tan thin
nerve and remained silent, but advancing the neck as well as horses
race, his eyes shining with a glow of coals murderer, showing his
teeth anxious biting.

The Fraulein, straw-blond, plump and tight white meat, smiling naively, staying away from the
fence, through whose iron groped the beasts.

But why he chose to flee, preferring to walk over, open air and light,
stay in the half dark hall, where he received the homage shaky and
exacerbated the male desire.

Her gray eyes and white face of a tender, such to a merengue, with visible pleasure hosting
these words of tribute brutal languages ​​could not understand.

Some of the boys, who were Spanish, treated with respectful familiarity
Maltrana something that was thought "the most popular man in the vessel."

-
Don Isidro, bring us here to this Güena pa girl ... Retrechera!

... Horny!

Others, who had lived in Argentina, joined the chorus of enthusiastic
muttering rapture:

- Preciousness! Cutie!

Maltrana begged a Neapolitan,
with humility, as if he were the owner of the vessel:

- Sinor, throw
it to us! ... Send us the throw!

Isidro closed the gate and was moving
among the young.

- Order, guys ... Order and formality. See if there
comes a alemanote of those and I long Smite by a pair of rascals.
One might even go so far as to say that she might have thrown it into a dustbin. She might
have left it out under a tree in the open, to freeze to death--that is to say, of course, if
it had not been dead already. She might have put it in the oven when left alone, and burnt
it up. She might have taken it up to the river at Sellanraa and thrown it in there. But this
mother did none of these things; she wrapped the dead child neatly in a cloth and buried it.
And if the body had been found wrapped neatly when the grave was opened, it must be a woman
and not a man who had so wrapped it.

And now, the advocate for the defence went on, it lay with the court to determine what measure
of guilt could properly be attributed to the girl Barbro in the matter. There was but little
remaining for which she could be blamed at all--indeed, in his, counsel's, opinion, there was
nothing. Unless the court found reason to convict on the charge of having failed to notify
the death. But here, again--the child was dead, and nothing could alter that; the place was
far out in the wilds, many miles from either priest or Lensmand; natural enough, surely, to
let it sleep the eternal sleep in a neat grave in the woods. And if it were a crime to have
buried it thus, then the accused was not more guilty than the father of the child--as it was,
the misdemeanour was surely slight enough to be overlooked. Modern practice was growing more
and more disposed to lay more stress on reforming the criminal than on punishing the crime.
It was an antiquated system which sought to inflict punishment for every mortal thing--it was
the lex talionis of the Old Testament, an eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth. There was
no longer the spirit of the law in modern times. The law of the present day was more humane,
seeking to adjust itself according to the degree of criminal intent and purpose displayed in
each case.

No! The court could never convict this girl. It was not the object of a trial to secure an
addition to the number of criminals, but rather to restore to society a good and useful member.
It should be noted that the accused had now the prospect of a new position where she would
be under the best possible supervision. Fru Lensmand Heyerdahl had, from her intimate knowledge
of the girl, and from her own valuable experience as a mother, thrown wide the doors of her
own home to the girl; the court would bear in mind the weight of responsibility attaching to
its decision here, and would then convict or acquit the accused. Finally, he wished to express
his thanks to the learned counsel for the prosecution, who had generously refrained from demanding
a conviction--a pleasing evidence of deep and humane understanding.

The advocate for the defence sat down.

The remainder of the proceedings did not take long. The summing up was but a repetition of
the same points, as viewed from opposite sides, a brief synopsis of the action of the play,
dry, dull, and dignified. It had all been managed very satisfactorily all round; both the advocates
had pointed out what the court should consider, and the presiding justice found his task easy
enough.

Lights were lit, a couple of lamps hanging from the ceiling--a miserable light it was, the
justice could hardly see to read his notes. He mentioned with some severity the point that
the child's death had not been duly notified to the proper authorities--but that, under the
circumstances, should be considered rather the duty of the father than of the mother, owing
to her weakness at the time. The court had then to determine whether any case had been proved
with regard to concealment of birth and infanticide. Here the evidence was again recapitulated
from beginning to end. Then came the usual injunction as to being duly conscious of responsibility,
which the court had heard before, and finally, the not uncommon reminder that in cases of doubt,
the scale should be allowed to turn in favour of the accused.

And now all was clear and ready.

The judges left the room and went into another apartment. They were to consider a paper with
certain questions, which one of them had with him. They were away five minutes, and returned
with a "No" to all the questions.

No, the girl Barbro had not killed her child.

Then the presiding judge said a few more words, and declared that the girl Barbro was now free.

The court-house emptied, the comedy was over....

Someone takes Axel Ström by the arm: it is Geissler. "H'm," said he, "so you're done with that
now!"

"Ay," said Axel.

"But they've wasted a lot of your time to no purpose."

"Ay," said Axel again. But he was coming to himself again gradually, and after a moment he
added: "None the less, I'm glad it was no worse."

"No worse?" said Geissler. "I'd have liked to see them try!" He spoke with emphasis, and Axel
fancied Geissler must have had something to do with the case himself; that he had intervened.
Heaven knows if, after all, it had not been Geissler himself that had led the whole proceedings
and gained the result he wished. It was a mystery, anyway.

So much at least Axel understood, that Geissler had been on his side all through.

"I've a deal to thank you for," said he, offering his hand.

"What for?" asked Geissler.

"Why, for--for all this."

Geissler turned it off shortly. "I've done nothing at all. Didn't trouble to do, anything--'twasn't
worth while." But for all that, Geissler was not displeased, maybe, at being thanked; it was
as if he had been waiting for it, and now it had come. "I've no time to stand talking now,"
he said. "Going back tomorrow, are you? Good. Good-bye, then, and good luck to you." And Geissler
strolled off across the street.

       *       *       *       *       *

On the boat going home, Axel encountered the Lensmand and his wife, Barbro and the two girls
called as witnesses.

"Well," said Fru Heyerdahl, "aren't you glad it turned out so well?"

Axel said, "Yes"; he was glad it had come out all right in the end.

The Lensmand himself put in a word, and said: "This is the second of these cases I've had while
I've been here--first with Inger from Sellanraa, and now this. No, it's no good trying to countenance
that sort of thing--justice must take its course."

But Fru Heyerdahl guessed, no doubt, that Axel was not over pleased with her speech of the
day before, and tried to smooth it over, to make up for it somehow now. "You understood, of
course, why I had to say all that about you yesterday?"

"H'm--ye--es," said Axel.

"You understood, of course, I know. You didn't think I wanted to make things harder for you
in any way. I've always thought well of you, and I don't mind saying so."

"Ay," said Axel, no more. But he was pleased and touched at her words.

"Yes, I mean it," said Fru Heyerdahl. "But I was obliged to try and shift the blame a little
your way, otherwise Barbro would have been convicted, and you too. It was all for the best,
indeed it was."

"I thank you kindly," said Axel.

"And it was I and no other that went about from one to another through the place, trying to
do what I could for you both. And you saw, of course, that we all had to do the same thing--make
out that you were partly to blame, so as to get you both off in the end."

"Ay," said Axel.

"Surely you didn't imagine for a moment that I meant any harm to you? When I've always thought
so well of you!"

Ay, this was good to hear after all the disgrace of it. Axel, at any rate, was so touched that
he felt he must do something, give Fru Heyerdahl something or other, whatever he could find--a
piece of meat perhaps, now autumn was come. He had a young bull....

Fru Lensmand Heyerdahl kept her word; she took Barbro to live with her. On board the steamer,
too, she looked after the girl, and saw that she was not cold, nor hungry; took care, also,
that she did not get up to any nonsense with the mate from Bergen. The first time it occurred,
she said nothing, but simply called Barbro to her. But a little while after there was Barbro
with him again, her head on one side, talking Bergen dialect and smiling. Then her mistress
called her up and said: "Really, Barbro, you ought not to be going on like that among the men
now. Remember what you've just been through, and what you've come from."

"I was only talking to him a minute," said Barbro. "I could hear he was from Bergen."

Axel did not speak to her. He noticed that she was pale and clear-skinned now, and her teeth
were better. She did not wear either of his rings....

And now here is Axel tramping up to his own place once more. Wind and rain, but he is glad
at heart; a mowing-machine and a harrow down at the quay; he had seen them. Oh, that Geissler!
Never a word had he said in town about what he had sent. Ay, an unfathomable man was Geissler.

Chapter VIII

Axel had no long time to rest at home, as it turned out; the autumn gales led to fresh trouble
and bothersome work that he had brought upon himself: the telegraph apparatus on his wall announced
that the line was out of order.

Oh, but he had been thinking overmuch of the money, surely, when he took on that post. It had
been a nuisance from the start. Brede Olsen had fairly threatened him when he went down to
fetch the apparatus and tools; ay, had said to him in as many words: "You don't seem like remembering
how I saved your life last winter!"

"'Twas Oline saved my life," answered Axel.

"Ho, indeed! And didn't I carry you down myself on my own poor shoulders? Anyway, you were
clever enough to buy up my place in summer-time and leave me homeless in the winter." Ay, Brede
was deeply offended; he went on:

"But you can take the telegraph for me, ay, all the rubble of it for me. I and mine we'll go
down to the village and start on something there--you don't know what it'll be, but wait and
see. What about a hotel place where folk can get coffee? You see but we'll manage all right.
There's my wife can sell things to eat and drink as well as another, and I can go out on business
and make a heap more than you ever did. But I don't mind telling you, Axel, I could make things
awkward for you in many odd ways, seeing all I know about the telegraph and things; ay, 'twould
be easy enough both to pull down poles and cut the line and all. And then you to go running
out after it midway in the busy time. That's all I'll say to you, Axel, and you bear it in
mind...."

Now Axel should have been down and brought up the machines from the quay--all over gilt and
colouring they were, like pictures to see. And he might have had them to look at all that day,
and learn the manner of using them--but now they must wait. 'Twas none so pleasant to have
to put aside all manner of necessary work to run and see after a telegraph line. But 'twas
the money....

Up on the top of the hill he meets Aronsen. Ay, Aronsen the trader standing there looking and
gazing out into the storm, like a vision himself. What did he want there? No peace in his mind
now, it seems, but he must go up the fjeld himself and look at the mine with his own eyes.
And this, look you, Trader Aronsen had done from sheer earnest thought of his own and his family's
future. Here he is, face to face with bare desolation on the forsaken hills, machines lying
there to rust, carts and material of all sorts left out in the open--'twas dismal to see. Here
and there on the walls of the huts were placards, notices written by hand, forbidding any one
to damage or remove the company's property--tools, carts, or buildings.

Axel stops for a few words with the mad trader, and asks if he has come out shooting.

"Shooting? Ay, if I could only get within reach of him!"

"Him? Who, then?"

"Why, him that's ruining me and all the rest of us hereabout. Him that won't sell his bit of
fjeld and let things get to work again, and trade and money passing same as before."

"D'you mean him Geissler, then?"

"Ay, 'tis him I mean. Ought to be shot!"

Axel laughs at this, and says: "Geissler he was in town but a few days back; you should have
talked to him there. But if I might be so bold as to say, I doubt you'd better leave him alone,
after all."

"And why?" asks Aron angrily.

"Why? I've a mind he'd be overwise and mysterious for you in the end."

They argued over this for a while, and Aronsen grew more excited than ever. At last Axel asked
jestingly: "Well, anyway, you'll not be so hard on us all to run away and leave us to ourselves
in the wilds?"

"Huh! Think I'm going to stay fooling about here in your bogs and never so much as making the
price of a pipe?" cried Aron indignantly. "Find me a buyer and I'll sell out."

"Sell out?" says Axel. "The land's good ordinary land if she's handled as should be--and what
you've got's enough to keep a man."

"Haven't I just said I'll not touch it?" cried Aronsen again in the gale. "I can do better
than that!"

Axel thought if that was so, 'twould be easy to find a buyer; but Aronsen laughed scornfully
at the idea--there was nobody there in the wilds had money to buy him out.

"Not here in the wilds, maybe, but elsewhere."

"Here's naught but filth and poverty," said Aron bitterly.

"Why, that's as it may be," said Axel in some offence. "But Isak up at Sellanraa he could buy
you out any day."

"Don't believe it," said Aronsen.

"'Tis all one to me what you believe," said Axel, and turned to go.

Aronsen called after him: "Hi, wait a bit! What's that you say--Isak might take the place,
was that what you said?"

"Ay," said Axel, "if 'twas only the money. He's means enough to buy up five of your Storborg
and all!"

Aronsen had gone round keeping wide of Sellanraa on his way up, taking care not to be seen;
but, going back, he called in and had a talk with Isak. But Isak only shook his head and said
nay, 'twas a matter he'd never thought of, and didn't care to.

But when Eleseus came back home that Christmas, Isak was easier to deal with. True, he maintained
that it was a mad idea to think of buying Storborg, 'twas nothing had ever been in his mind;
still, if Eleseus thought he could do anything with the place, why, they might think it over.

Eleseus himself was midways between, as it were; not exactly eager for it, yet not altogether
indifferent. If he did settle down here at home, then his career in one way was at an end.
'Twas not like being in a town. That autumn, when a lot of people from his parts had been up
for cross-examination in a certain place, he had taken care not to show himself; he had no
desire to meet any that knew him from that quarter; they belonged to another world. And was
he now to go back to that same world himself?

His mother was all for buying the place; Sivert, too, said it would be best. They stuck to
Eleseus both of them, and one day the three drove down to Storborg to see the wonder with their
own eyes.

But once there was a prospect of selling, Aronsen became a different man; he wasn't pressed
to get rid of it, not at all. If he did go away, the place could stand as it was; 'twas a first-rate
holding, a "cash down" place, there'd be no difficulty in selling it any time. "You'd not give
my price," said Aronsen.

They went over the house and stores, the warehouse and sheds, inspected the miserable remains
of the stock, consisting of a few mouth-organs, watch-chains, boxes of coloured papers, lamps
with hanging ornaments, all utterly unsaleable to sensible folks that lived on their land.
There were a few cases of nails and some cotton print, and that was all.

Eleseus was constrained to show off a bit, and looked over things with a knowing air. "I've
no use for that sort of truck," said he.

"Why, then, you've no call to buy it," said Aronsen.

"Anyhow, I'll offer you fifteen hundred Kroner for the place as it stands, with goods, live
stock, and the rest," said Eleseus. Oh, he was careless, enough; his offer was but a show,
for something to say.

And they drove back home. No, there was no deal; Eleseus had made a ridiculous offer, that
Aronsen regarded as an insult. "I don't think much of you, young man," said Aronsen; ay, calling
him young man, considering him but a slip of a lad that had grown conceited in the town, and
thought to teach him, Aronsen, the value of goods.

"I'll not be called 'young man' by you, if you please," said Eleseus, offended in his turn.
They must be mortal enemies after that.

But how could it be that Aronsen had all along been so independent and so sure of not being
forced to sell? There was a reason for it: Aronsen had a little hope at the back of his mind,
after all.

A meeting had been held in the village to consider the position which had arisen owing to Geissler's
refusal to sell his part of the mining tract. 'Twas not only the outlying settlers who stood
to lose by this, it would be fatal to the whole district.

Why could not folk go on living as well or as poorly now as before there had been any mine
at all? Well, they could not, and that was all about it. They had grown accustomed to better
food, finer bread, store-bought clothes and higher wages, general extravagance--ay, folk had
learned to reckon with money more, that was the matter. And now the money was gone again, had
slipped away like a shoal of herring out to sea--'twas dire distress for them all, and what
was to be done?

There was no doubt about it: ex-Lensmand Geissler was taking his revenge upon the village because
they had helped his superior to get him dismissed; equally clear was it that they had underestimated
him at the time. He had not simply disappeared and left. By the simplest means, merely by demanding
an unreasonable price for a mine, he had succeeded in checking the entire development of the
district. Ay, a strong man! Axel Ström from Maaneland could bear them out in this; he was the
one who had last met Geissler. Brede's girl Barbro had had a lawsuit in the town, and come
home acquitted; but Geissler, he had been there in court all the time. And if any one suggested
that Geissler was dejected, and a broken man, why, he had only to look at the costly machines
that same Geissler had sent up as a present to Axel Ström.

This man it was then, who held the fate of the district in his hand; they would have to come
to some agreement with him. What price would Geissler ultimately be disposed to accept for
his mine? They must ascertain in any case. The Swedes had offered him twenty-five thousand--Geissler
had refused. But suppose the village here, the commune, were to make up the remainder, simply
to get things going again? If it were not an altogether unheard-of amount, it might be worth
while. Both the trader at the shore station and Aronsen up at Storborg would be willing to
contribute privately and secretly; funds devoted to such a purpose now would be repaid in the
long run.

The end of it was that two men were deputed to call on Geissler and take up the matter with
him. And they were expected back shortly.

So it was, then, that Aronsen cherished a flicker of hope, and thought he could afford to stand
on his dignity with any who offered to buy up Storborg. But it was not to last.

A week later the deputation returned home with a flat refusal. Oh, they had done the worst
thing possible at the outset, in choosing Brede Olsen as one of the men they sent--they had
taken him as being one who best could spare the time. They had found Geissler, but he had only
shaken his head and laughed. "Go back home again," he had said. But Geissler had paid for their
journey back.

Then the district was to be left to its fate?

After Aronsen had raged for a while, and grown more and more desperate, he went up one day
to Sellanraa and closed the deal. Ay, Aronsen did. Eleseus got it for the price he had offered;
land and house and sheds, live stock and goods, for fifteen hundred Kroner. True, on going
through the inventory after, it was found that Aronsen's wife had converted most of the cotton
print to her own use; but trifles of that sort were nothing to a man like Eleseus. It didn't
do to be mean, he said.

Nevertheless, Eleseus was not exactly delighted with things as they had turned out--his future
was settled now, he was to bury himself in the wilds. He must give up his great plans; he was
no longer a young gentleman in an office, he would never be a Lensmand, not even live in a
town at all. To his father and those at home he made it appear that he was proud at having
secured Storborg at the very price he had fixed--it would show them he knew what he was about.
But that small triumph did not go very far. He had also the satisfaction of taking over Andresen,
the chief clerk, who was thus, as it were, included in the bargain. Aronsen had no longer any
use for him, until he had a new place going. It was a pleasant sensation to be Eleseus, when
Andresen came up begging to be allowed to stay; here it was Eleseus who was master and head
of the business--for the first time in his life.

"You can stay, yes," he said. "I shall be wanting an assistant to look after the place when
I'm away on business--opening up connections in Bergen and Trondhjem," said he.

And Andresen was no bad man to have, as it soon proved; he was a good worker, and looked after
things well when Eleseus was away. 'Twas only at first he had been somewhat inclined to show
and play the fine gentleman, and that was the fault of his master Aronsen. It was different
now. In the spring, when the bogs were thawed some depth, Sivert came down from Sellanraa to
Storborg, to start a bit of ditching for his brother, and lo, Andresen himself went out on
the land digging too. Heaven knows what possessed him to do it, for 'twas no work of his, but
that was the sort of man he was. It was not thawed deep enough yet, and they could not get
as far as they wanted by a long way, but it was something done, at any rate. It was Isak's
old idea to drain the bogs at Storborg and till the land there properly; the bit of a store
was only to be an extra, a convenience, to save folk going all the way down to the village
for a reel of thread.

So Sivert and Andresen stood there digging, and talking now and again when they stopped for
a rest. Andresen had also somehow or other managed to get hold of a gold piece, a twenty-Krone
piece, and Sivert would gladly have had the bright thing himself; but Andresen would not part
with it--kept it wrapped up in tissue paper in his chest. Sivert proposed a wrestling match
for the money--see who could throw the other; but Andresen would not risk it. Sivert offered
to stake twenty Kroner in notes against the gold piece, and do all the digging himself into
the bargain if he won; but Andresen took offence at that. "Ho," said he, "and you'd like to
go back home, no doubt, and say I'm no good at working on the land!" At last they agreed to
set twenty-five Kroner in notes against the gold twenty-Krone piece, and Sivert slipped home
to Sellanraa that night to ask his father for the money.

A young man's trick, the pretty play of youth! A night's sleep thrown away, to walk miles up
and miles down again, and work next day as usual--'twas nothing to a young man in his strength,
and a bright gold piece was worth it all. Andresen was a little inclined to make fun of him
over the deal, but Sivert was not at a loss; he had only to let fall a word of Leopoldine.
"There! I was nearly forgetting. Leopoldine she asked after you...." And Andresen stopped his
work of a sudden and went very red.

Pleasant days for them both, draining and ditching, getting up long arguments for fun, and
working, and arguing again. Now and then Eleseus would come out and lend a hand, but he soon
tired. Eleseus was not strong either of body or will, but a thorough good fellow for all that....

"Here's that Oline coming along," Sivert the jester would say. "Now you'll have to go in and
sell her a paper of coffee." And Eleseus was glad enough to go. Selling Oline some trifle or
other meant so many minutes' rest from throwing heavy clods.

And Oline, poor creature, she might well be needing a pinch of coffee now and again, whether
by chance she managed to get the money from Axel to pay for it, or bartered a goats' milk cheese
in exchange. Oline was not altogether what she had been; the work at Maaneland was too hard
for her; she was an old woman now, and it was leaving its mark. Not that she ever confessed
to any weakness or ageing herself; ho! she would have found plenty to say if she had been dismissed.
Tough and irrepressible was Oline; did her work, and found time to wander over to neighbours
here or there for a real good gossip. 'Twas her plain right, and there was little gossiping
at Maaneland. Axel himself was not given that way.

As for that Barbro case, Oline was displeased, ay, disappointed was Oline. Both of them acquitted!
That Brede's girl Barbro should be let off when Inger Sellanraa had got eight years was not
to Oline's taste at all; she felt an unchristian annoyance at such favouritism. But the Almighty
would look to things, no doubt, in His own good time! And Oline nodded, as if prophesying divine
retribution at a later date. Naturally, also, Oline made no secret of her dissatisfaction with
the finding of the court, more especially when she happened to fall out with her master, Axel,
over any little trifle. Then she would deliver herself, in the old soft-spoken way, of much
deep and bitter sarcasm. "Ay, 'tis strange how the law's changed these days, for all the wickedness
of Sodom and Gomorrah; but the word of the Lord's my guide, as ever was, and a blessed refuge
for the meek."

Oh, Axel was sick and tired of his housekeeper now, and wished her anywhere. And now with spring
coming again, and all the season's work to do alone; haymaking to come, and what was he to
do? 'Twas a poor look-out. His brother's wife, at Breidablik had written home to Helgeland
trying to find a decent woman to help him, but nothing had come of it as yet. And in any case,
it would mean his having to pay for the journey.

Nay, 'twas a mean and wicked trick of Barbro to make away with the bit of a child and then
run off herself. A summer and two winters now he had been forced to make do with Oline, and
no saying how much longer it might be yet. And Barbro, the creature, did she care? He had had
a few words with her down in the village one day that winter, but never a tear had trickled
slowly from her eyes to freeze on her cheek.

"What you've done with rings I gave you?" asks he.

"Rings?"

"Ay, the rings."

"I haven't got them now."

"Ho, so you haven't got them now?"

"'Twas all over between us," said she. "And I couldn't wear them after that. 'Tis not the way
to go on wearing rings when it's all over between you."

"Well, I'd just like to know what you've done with them, that's all."

"Wanted me to give them back, maybe," said she. "Well, I never thought you'd have had me put
you to that shame."

Axel thought for a moment, and said: "I could have made it up to you other ways. That you shouldn't
lose by it, I mean."

But no, Barbro had got rid of the rings, and never so much as gave him the chance of buying
back a gold ring and a silver ring at a reasonable price.

For all that, Barbro was not so thoroughly harsh and unlovable, that she was not. She had a
long apron thing that fastened over the shoulders and with tucks at the edge, and a strip of
white stuff up round her neck--ay, she looked well. There were some said she'd found a lad
already down in the village to go sweethearting with, though maybe 'twas but their talk, after
all. Fru Heyerdahl kept a watchful eye on her at any rate, and took care not to let her go
to the Christmas dances.

Ay, Fru Heyerdahl was careful enough, that she was; here was Axel standing talking to his former
servant-girl about a matter of two rings, and suddenly Fru Heyerdahl comes right between them
and says: "Barbro, I thought you were going to the store?" Off goes Barbro. And her mistress
turns to Axel and says: "Have you come down with some meat, or something?"

"H'm," said Axel, just that, and touched his cap.

Now it was Fru Heyerdahl that had praised him up so that last autumn, saying he was a splendid
fellow and she had always thought well of him; and one good turn was worth another, no doubt.
Axel knew the way of doing things; 'twas an old story, when simple folk had dealing with their
betters, with authority. And he had thought at once of a piece of butcher's meat, a bull he
had, that might be useful there. But time went on, and month and month passed by and autumn
was gone, and the bull was never killed. And what harm could it do, after all, if he kept it
for himself?--give it away, and he would be so much poorer. And 'twas a fine beast, anyway.

"H'm, Goddag. Nay," said Axel, shaking his head; he'd no meat with him today.

But Fru Heyerdahl seemed to be guessing his thoughts, for she said: "I've heard you've an ox,
or what?"

"Ay, so I have," said Axel.

"Are you going to keep it?"

"Ay, I'll be keeping him yet."

"I see. You've no sheep to be killed?"

"Not now I haven't. 'Tis this way, I've never had but what's to be kept on the place."

"Oh, I see," said Fru Heyerdahl; "well, that was all." And she went on her way.

Axel drove up homeward, but he could not help thinking somewhat of what had passed; he rather
feared he had made a false step somehow. The Lensmand's lady had been an important witness
once; for and against him, but important anyway. He had been through an unpleasant time on
that occasion, but, after all, he had got out of it in the end--got out of a very awkward business
in connection with the body of a child found buried on his land. Perhaps, after all, he had
better kill that sheep.

And, strangely enough, this thought was somehow connected with Barbro. If he came down bringing
sheep for her mistress it could hardly fail to make a certain impression on Barbro herself.

But again the days went on, and nothing evil happened for their going on. Next time he drove;
down to the village he had no sheep on his cart, no, still no sheep. But at the last moment
he had taken a lamb. A big lamb, though; not a miserable little one by any means, and he delivered
it with these words:

"'Tis rare tough meat on a wether, and no sort of a gift to bring. But this is none so bad."

But Fru Heyerdahl would not hear of taking it as a gift. "Say what you want for it," she said.
Oh, a fine lady, 'twas not her way to take gifts from folk! And the end of it was that Axel
got a good price for his lamb.

He saw nothing of Barbro at all. Lensmand's lady had seen him coming, and got her out of the
way. And good luck go with her--Barbro that had cheated him out of his help for a year and a half!

Chapter IX

That spring something unexpected happened--something of importance indeed; work at the mine
was started again; Geissler had sold his land. Inconceivable! Oh, but Geissler was an unfathomable
mind; he could make a bargain or refuse, shake his head for a "No," or nod the same for "Yes."
Could make the whole village smile again.

Conscience had pricked him, maybe; he had no longer the heart to see the district where he
had been Lensmand famishing on home-made gruel and short of money. Or had he got his quarter
of a million? Possibly, again, Geissler himself had at last begun to feel the need of money,
and had been forced to sell for what he could get. Twenty-five or fifty thousand was not to
be despised, after all. As a matter of fact, there were rumours that it was his eldest son
who had settled the business on his father's account.

Be that as it might, work was recommenced; the same engineer came again with his gangs of men,
and the work went on anew. The same work, ay, but in a different fashion now, going backwards,
as it were.

All seemed in regular order: the Swedish mine-owners had brought their men, and dynamite and
money--what could be wrong, anyway? Even Aronsen came back again, Aronsen the trader, who had
set his mind on buying back Storborg from Eleseus.

"No," said Eleseus. "It's not for sale."

"You'll sell, I suppose, if you're offered enough?"

"No."

No, Eleseus was not going to sell Storborg. The truth was, he had changed his mind somewhat
as to the position; it was none so bad, after all, to be owner of a trading station in the
hills; he had a fine verandah with coloured glass windows, and a chief clerk to do all the
work, while he himself went about the country travelling. Ay, travelling first class, with
fine folks. One day, perhaps, he might be able to go as far as America--he often thought of
that. Even these little journeys on business to the towns down in the south were something
to live on for a long time after. Not that he let himself go altogether, and chartered a steamer
of his own and held wild orgies on the way--orgies were not in his line. A strange fellow,
was Eleseus; he no longer cared about girls, had given up such things altogether, lost all
interest in them. No, but after all, he was the Margrave's son, and travelled first class and
bought up loads of goods. And each time he came back a little finer than before, a greater
man; the last time, he even wore galoshes to keep his feet dry. "What's that--you taken to
wearing two pairs of shoes?" they said.

"I've been suffering from chilblains lately," says Eleseus.

And every one sympathized with Eleseus and his chilblains.

Glorious days--a grand life, with no end of leisure. No, he was not going to sell Storborg.
What, go back to a little town and stand behind the counter in a little shop, and no chief
clerk of his own at all? Moreover, he had made up his mind now to develop the business on a
grand scale. The Swedes had come back again and would flood the place with money; he would
be a fool to sell out now. Aronsen was forced to go back each time with a flat refusal, more
and more disgusted at his own lack of foresight in ever having given up the place.

Oh, but Aronsen might have saved himself a deal of self-reproach, and likewise Eleseus with
his plans and intentions, that he might have kept in moderation. And more than all, the village
would have done well to be less confident, instead of going about smiling and rubbing its hands
like angels sure of being blessed--no call for them to do so if they had but known. For now
came disappointment, and no little one at that. Who would ever have thought it; work at the
mine commenced again, true enough--but at the other end of the fjeld, eight miles away, on
the southern boundary of Geissler's holding, far off in another district altogether, a district
with which they were in no way concerned. And from there the work was to make its way gradually
northward to the original mine, Isak's mine, to be a blessing to folk in the wilds and in the
village. At best, it would take years, any number of years, a generation.

The news came like a dynamite charge of the heaviest sort, with shock and stopping of ears.
The village folk were overcome with grief. Some blamed Geissler; 'twas Geissler, that devil
of a man, who had tricked them once more. Others huddled together at a meeting and sent out
a new deputation of trusty men, this time to the mining company, to the engineer. But nothing
came of it; the engineer explained that he was obliged to start work from the south because
that was nearest the sea, and saved the need of an aerial railway, reduced the transport almost
to nil. No, the work must begin that way; no more to be said.

Then it was that Aronsen at once rose up and set out for the new workings, the new promised
land. He even tried to get Andresen to go with him: "What's the sense of you staying on here
in the wilds?" said he. "Much better come with me." But Andresen would not leave; incomprehensible,
but so it was, there was something which held him to the spot; he seemed to thrive there, had
taken root. It must be Andresen who had changed, for the place was the same as ever. Folk and
things were unaltered; the mining work had turned away to other tracts, but folk in the wilds
had not lost their heads over that; they had their land to till, their crops, their cattle.
No great wealth in money, true, but in all the necessaries of life, ay, absolutely all.

Even Eleseus was not reduced to misery because the stream of gold was flowing elsewhere; the
worst of it was that in his first exaltation he had bought great stocks of goods that were
now unsaleable. Well, they could stay there for the time being; it looked well, at any rate,
to have plenty of wares in a store.

No, a man of the wilds did not lose his head. The air was not less healthy now than before;
there were folk enough to admire new clothes; there was no need of diamonds. Wine was a thing
he knew from the feast at Cana. A man of the wild was not put out by the thought of great things
he could not get; art, newspapers, luxuries, politics, and such-like were worth just what folk
were willing to pay for them, no more. Growth of the soil was something different, a thing
to be procured at any cost; the only source, the origin of all. A dull and desolate existence?
Nay, least of all. A man had everything; his powers above, his dreams, his loves, his wealth
of superstition. Sivert, walking one evening by the river, stops on a sudden; there on the
water are a pair of ducks, male and female. They have sighted him; they are aware of man, and
afraid; one of them says something, utters a little sound, a melody in three tones, and the
other answers with the same. Then they rise, whirl off like two little wheels a stone's-throw
up the river, and settle again. Then, as before, one speaks and the other answers; the same
speech as at first, but mark a new delight: it is set two octaves higher! Sivert stands looking
at the birds, looking past them, far into a dream.

A sound had floated through him, a sweetness, and left him standing there with a delicate;
thin recollection of something wild and splendid, something he had known before, and forgotten
again. He walks home in silence, says no word of it, makes no boast of it, 'twas not for worldly
speech. And it was but Sivert from Sellanraa, went out one evening, young and ordinary as he
was, and met with this.

It was not the only thing he met with--there were more adventures beside. Another thing which
happened was that Jensine left Sellanraa. And that made Sivert not a little perturbed in his mind.

Ay, it came to that: Jensine would leave, if you please; she wished it so. Oh, Jensine was
not one of your common sort, none could say that. Sivert had once offered to drive her back
home at once, and on that occasion she had cried, which was a pity; but afterwards she repented
of that, and made it clear that she repented, and gave notice and would leave. Ay, a proper
way to do.

Nothing could have suited Inger at Sellanraa better than this; Inger was beginning to grow
dissatisfied with her maid. Strange; she had nothing to say against her, but the sight of the
girl annoyed her, she could hardly endure to have her about the place. It all arose, no doubt,
from Inger's state of mind; she had been heavy and religious all that winter, and it would
not pass off. "Want to leave, do you? Why, then, well and good," said Inger. It was a blessing,
the fulfilment of nightly prayers. Two grown women they were already, what did they want with
this Jensine, fresh as could be and marriageable and all? Inger thought with a certain displeasure
of that same marriageableness, thinking, maybe, how she had once been the same herself.

Her deep religiousness did not pass off. She was not full of vice; she had tasted, sipped,
let us say, but 'twas not her intent to persevere in that way all through her old age, not
by any means; Inger turned aside with horror from the thought. The mine and all its workmen
were no longer there--and Heaven be praised. Virtue was not only tolerable, but inevitable,
it was a necessary thing; ay, a necessary good, a special grace.

But the world was all awry. Look now, here was Leopoldine, little Leopoldine, a seedling, a
slip of a child, going about bursting with sinful health; but an arm round her waist and she
would fall helpless--oh, fie! There were spots on her face now, too--a sign in itself of wild
blood; ay, her mother remembered well enough, 'twas the wild blood would out. Inger did not
condemn her child for a matter of spots 'on her face; but it must stop, she would have an end
of it. And what did that fellow Andresen want coming up to Sellanraa of Sundays, to talk fieldwork
with Isak? Did the two menfolk imagine the child was blind? Ay, young folk were young folk
as they had ever been, thirty, forty years ago, but worse than ever now.

"Why, that's as it may be," said Isak, when they spoke of the matter. "But here's the spring
come, and Jensine gone, and who's to manage the summer work?"

"Leopoldine and I can do the haymaking," said Inger. "Ay, I'd rather go raking night and day
myself," said she bitterly, and on the point of crying.

Isak could not understand what there was to make such a fuss about; but he had his own ideas,
no doubt, and off he went to the edge of the wood, with crowbar and pick, and fell to working
at a stone. Nay, indeed, Isak could not see why Jensine should have left them; a good girl,
and a worker. To tell the truth, Isak was often at a loss in all save the simplest things--his
work, his lawful and natural doings. A broad-shouldered man, well filled out, nothing astral
about him at all; he ate like a man and throve on it, and 'twas rarely he was thrown off his
balance in any way.

Well, here was this stone. There were stones more in plenty, but here was one to begin with.
Isak is looking ahead, to the time when he will need to build a little house here, a little
home for himself and Inger, and as well to get to work a bit on the site, and clear it, while
Sivert is down at Storborg. Otherwise the boy would be asking questions, and that was not to
Isak's mind. The day must come, of course, when Sivert would need all there was of the place
for himself--the old folks would be wanting a house apart. Ay, there was never an end of building
at Sellanraa; that fodder loft above the cowshed was not done yet, though the beams and planks
for it were there all ready.

Well, then, here was this stone. Nothing so big to look at above ground, but not to be moved
at a touch for all that; it must be a heavy fellow. Isak dug round about it, and tried his
crowbar, but it would not move. He dug again and tried once more, but no. Back to the house
for a spade then, and clear the earth away, then digging again, trying again--no. A mighty
heavy beast to shift, thought Isak patiently enough. He dug away now for a steady while, but
the stone seemed reaching ever deeper and deeper down, there was no getting a purchase on it.
A nuisance it would be if he had to blast it, after all. The boring would make such a noise,
and call up every one on the place. He dug. Off again to fetch a levering pole and tried that--no.
He dug again. Isak was beginning to be annoyed with this stone; he frowned, and looked at the
thing, as if he had just come along to make a general inspection of the stones in that neighbourhood,
and found this one particularly stupid. He criticized it; ay, it was a round-faced, idiotic
stone, no getting hold of it any way--he was almost inclined to say it was deformed. Blasting?
The thing wasn't worth a charge of powder. And was he to give it up, was he to consider the
possibility of being beaten by a stone?

He dug. Hard work, that it was, but as to giving up ... At last he got the nose of his lever
down and tried it; the stone did not move. Technically speaking, there was nothing wrong with
his method, but it did not work. What was the matter, then? He had got out stones before in
his life. Was he getting old? Funny thing, he he he! Ridiculous, indeed. True, he had noticed
lately that he was not so strong as he had been--that is to say, he had noticed nothing of
the sort, never heeded it; 'twas only imagination. And he goes at the stone once more, with
the best will in the world.

Oh, 'twas no little matter when Isak bore down on a levering pole with all his weight. There
he is now, hoisting and hoisting again, a Cyclop, enormous, with a torso that seems built in
one to the knees. A certain pomp and splendour about him; his equator was astounding.

But the stone did not move.

No help for it; he must dig again. Try blasting? Not a word! No, dig again. He was intent on
his work now. The stone should come up! It would be wrong to say there was anything at all
perverse in this on Isak's part; it was the ingrown love of a worker on the soil, but altogether
without tenderness. It was a foolish sight; first gathering, as it were, about the stone from
all sides, then making a dash at it, then digging all round its sides and fumbling at it, throwing
up the earth with his bare hands, ay, so he did. Yet there was nothing of a caress in it all.
Warmth, yes, but the warmth of zeal alone.

Try the lever again? He thrust it down where there was best hold--no. An altogether remarkable
instance of obstinacy and defiance on the part of the stone. But it seemed to be giving. Isak
tries again, with a touch of hope; the earth-breaker has a feeling now that the stone is no
longer invincible. Then the lever slipped, throwing him to the ground. "Devil!" said he. Ay,
he said that. His cap had got thrust down over one ear as he fell, making him look like a robber,
like a Spaniard. He spat.

Here comes Inger. "Isak, come in and have your food now," says she, kindly and pleasant as can be.

"Ay," says he, but will have her no nearer, and wants no questions.

Oh, but Inger, never dreaming, she comes nearer.

"What's in your mind now?" she asks, to soften him with a hint of the way he thinks out some
new grand thing almost every day.

But Isak is sullen, terribly sullen and stern; he says: "Nay, I don't know."

And Inger again, foolish that she is--ugh, keeps on talking and asking and will not go.

"Seeing as you've seen it yourself," says he at last, "I'm getting up this stone here."

"Ho, going to get him up?"

"Ay."

"And couldn't I help a bit at all?" she asks.

Isak shakes his head. But it was a kindly thought, anyway, that she would have helped him,
and he can hardly be harsh in return.

"If you just wait the least bit of a while," says he, and runs home for the hammers.

If he could only get the stone rough a bit, knocking off a flake or so in the right spot, it
would give the lever a better hold. Inger holds the setting-hammer, and Isak strikes. Strikes,
strikes. Ay, sure enough, off goes a flake. "'Twas a good help," says Isak, "and thanks. But
don't trouble about food for me this bit of a while, I must get this stone up first."

But Inger does not go. And to tell the truth, Isak is pleased enough to have her there watching
him at his work; 'tis a thing has always pleased him, since their young days. And lo, he gets
a fine purchase now on the lever, and puts his weight into it--the stone moves! "He's moving,"
says Inger.

"'Tis but your nonsense," says Isak.

"Nonsense, indeed! But it is!"

Got so far, then--and that was something. The stone was, so to speak, converted now, was on
his side; they were working together. Isak hoists and heaves with his lever, and the stone
moves, but no more. He keeps at it a while, nothing more. All at once he understands that it
is not merely a question of weight, the dead pull of his body; no, the fact is that he has
no longer his old strength, he has lost the tough agility that makes all the difference. Weight?
An easy matter enough to hang on with his weight and break an iron-shod pole. No, he was weakening,
that was it. And the patient man is filled with bitterness at the thought--at least he might
have been spared the shame of having Inger here to see it!

Suddenly he drops the lever and grasps the sledge. A fury takes him, he is minded to go at
it violently now. And see, his cap still hangs on one ear, robber-fashion, and now he steps
mightily, threateningly, round the stone, trying, as it were, to set himself in the proper
light; ho, he will leave that stone a ruin and a wreck of what it had been. Why not? When a
man is filled with mortal hatred of a stone, it is a mere formality to crush it. And suppose
the stone resists, suppose it declines to be crushed? Why, let it try--and see which of the
two survives!

But then it is that Inger speaks up, a little timidly, again; seeing, no doubt, what is troubling
him: "What if we both hang on the stick there?" And the thing she calls a stick is the lever,
nothing else.

"No!" cries Isak furiously. But after a moment's thought he says: "Well, well, since you're
here--though you might as well have gone home. Let's try."

And they get the stone up on edge. Ay, they manage that. And "Puh!" says Isak.

But now comes a revelation, a strange thing to see. The underside of the stone is flat, mightily
broad, finely cut, smooth and even as a floor. The stone is but the half of a stone, the other
half is somewhere close by, no doubt. Isak knows well enough that two halves of the same stone
may lie in different places; the frost, no doubt, that in course of time had shifted them apart.
But he is all wonder and delight at the find; 'tis a useful stone of the best, a door-slab.
A round sum of money would not have filled this fieldworker's mind with such content. "A fine
door-slab," says he proudly.

And Inger, simple creature: "Why! Now how on earth could you tell that beforehand?"

"H'm," says Isak. "Think I'd go here digging about for nothing?"

They walk home together, Isak enjoying new admiration on false pretences; 'twas something he
had not deserved, but it tasted but little different from the real thing. He lets it be understood
that he has been looking out for a suitable door-slab for a long time, and had found it at
last. After that, of course, there could be nothing in the least suspicious about his working
there again; he could root about as much as he pleased on pretext of looking for the other
half. And when Sivert came home, he could get him to help.

But if it had come to this, that he could no longer go out alone and heave up a stone, why,
things were sorely changed; ay, 'twas a bad look-out, and the more need to get that site cleared
quick as might be. Age was upon him, he was ripening for the chimney-corner. The triumph he
had stolen in the matter of the door-slab faded away in a few days; 'twas a false thing, and
not made to last. Isak stooped a little now in his walk.

Had he not once been so much of a man that he grew wakeful and attentive in a moment if one
but said a word of stone, a word of digging? And 'twas no long time since, but a few years,
no more. Ay, and in those days, folk that were shy of a bit of draining work kept out of his
way. Now he was beginning, little by little, to take such matters more calmly; eyah, Herregud!
All things were changed, the land itself was different now, with broad telegraph roads up through
the woods, that had not been there before, and rocks blasted and sundered up by the water,
as they had not been before. And folk, too, were changed. They did not greet coming and going
as in the old days, but nodded only, or maybe not even that.

But then--in the old days there had been no Sellanraa, but only a turf hut, while now.... There
had been no Margrave in the old days.

Ay, but Margrave, what was he now? A pitiful thing, nothing superhuman, but old and fading,
going the way of all flesh. What though he had good bowels, and could eat well, when it gave
him no strength? 'Twas Sivert had the strength now, and a mercy it was so--but think, if Isak
had had it too! A sorry thing, to find his works running down. He had toiled like a man, carrying
loads enough for any beast of burden; now, he could exercise his patience in resting.

Isak is ill-pleased, heavy at heart.

Here lies an old hat, an old sou'wester, rotting on the ground. Carried there by the gale,
maybe, or maybe the lads had brought it there to the edge of the wood years ago, when they
were little ones. It lies there year after year, rotting and rotting away; but once it had
been a new sou'wester, all yellow and new. Isak remembers the day he came home with it from
the store, and Inger had said it was a fine hat. A year or so after, he had taken it to a painter
down in the village, and had it blacked and polished, and the brim done in green. And when
he came home, Inger thought it a finer hat than before. Inger always thought everything was
fine; ay, 'twas a good life those days, cutting faggots, with Inger to look on--his best days.
And when March and April came, Inger and he would be wild after each other, just like the birds
and beasts in the woods; and when May was come, he would sow his corn and plant potatoes, living
and thriving from day to dawn. Work and sleep, loving and dreaming, he was like the first big
ox, and that was a wonder to see, big and bright as a king. But there was no such May to the
years now. No such thing.

Isak was sorely despondent for some days. Dark days they were. He felt neither wish nor strength
to start work on the fodder loft--that could be left for Sivert to do some day. The thing to
be done now was the house for himself--the last house to build. He could not long hide from
Sivert what he was doing; he was clearing the ground, and plain to see what for. And one day
he told.

"There's a good bit of stone if we'd any use for stonework," said he. "And there's another."

Sivert showed no surprise, and only said: "Ay, first-rate stones."

"What you might think," said his father.

"We've been digging round here now to find that other door-slab piece; might almost do to build
here. I don't know...."

"Ay, 'tis no bad place to build," said Sivert, looking round.

"Think so? 'Twas none so bad, maybe, to have a bit of a place to house folk if any should come
along."

"Ay."

"A couple of rooms'd be as well. You saw how 'twas when they Swedish gentlemen came, and no
proper place to house them. But what you think: a bit of a kitchen as well, maybe, if 'twas
any cooking to be done?"

"Ay, 'twould be a shame to built with never a bit of kitchen," says Sivert.

"You think so?"

Isak said no more. But Sivert, he was a fine lad to grasp things, and get into his head all
at once just what was needed in a place to put up Swedish gentlemen that chanced to come along;
never so much as asked a single question, but only said: "Doing it my way, now, you'd put up
a bit of a shed on the north wall. Folks coming along, 'd be useful to have a shed place to
hang up wet clothes and things."

And his father agrees at once: "Ay, the very thing."

They work at their stones again in silence. Then asks Isak: "Eleseus, he's not come home, I
suppose?"

And Sivert answers evasively: "He'll be coming home soon."

'Twas that way with Eleseus: he was all for staying away, living away on journeys. Couldn't
he have written for the goods? But he must go round and buy them on the spot. Got them so much
cheaper. Ay, maybe, but what about cost of the journey? He had his own way of thinking, it
seemed. And then, what did he want, anyway, with more cotton stuff, and coloured ribbons for
christening caps, and black and white straw hats, and long tobacco pipes? No one ever bought
such things up in the hills; and the village folk, they only came up to Storborg when they'd
no money. Eleseus was clever enough in his way--only to see him write on a paper, or do sums
with a bit of chalk! "Ay, with a head like yours," said folk, admiring him. And that was true
enough; but he was spending overmuch. They village folk never paid their owings, and yet even
a fellow like Brede Olsen could come up to Storborg that winter and get cotton print and coffee
and molasses and paraffin on credit.

Isak has laid out a deal of money already for Eleseus, and his store and his long journeyings
about; there's not overmuch left now out of the riches from the mine--and what then?

"How d'you think he's getting on, Eleseus?" asks Isak suddenly.

"Getting on?" says Sivert, to gain time.

"Doesn't seem to be doing so well."

"H'm. He says it'll go all right."

"You spoken to him about it?"

"Nay; but Andresen he says so."

Isak thought over this, and shook his head. "Nay, I doubt it's going ill," says he. "Tis a
pity for the lad."

And Isak gloomier than ever now, for all he'd been none too bright before.

But then Sivert flashes out a bit of news: "There's more folk coming to live now."

"How d'you say?"

"Two new holdings. They've bought up close by us."

Isak stands still with his crowbar in hand; this was news, and good news, the best that could
be. "That makes ten of us here," says he. And Isak learns exactly where the new men have bought,
he knows the country all round in his head, and nods. "Ay, they've done well there; wood for
firing in plenty, and some big timber here and there. Ground slopes down sou'west. Ay...."

Settlers--nothing could beat them, anyway--here were new folk coming to live. The mine had
come to nothing, but so much the better for the land. A desert, a dying place? Far from it,
all about was swarming with life; two new men, four new hands to work, fields and meadows and
homes. Oh, the little green tracts in a forest, a hut and water, children and cattle about.
Corn waving on the moorlands where naught but horsetail grew before, bluebells nodding on the
fells, and yellow sunlight blazing in the ladyslipper flowers outside a house. And human beings
living there, move and talk and think and are there with heaven and earth.

Here stands the first of them all, the first man in the wilds. He came that way, kneedeep in
marsh-growth and heather, found a sunny slope and settled there. Others came after him, they
trod a path across the waste Almenning; others again, and the path became a road; carts drove
there now. Isak may be content, may start with a little thrill of pride; he was the founder
of a district, the pioneer.

"Look here, we can't go wasting time on this bit of a house place if we're to get that fodder
loft done this year," says he.

With a new brightness, new spirit; as it were, new courage and life.

Chapter X

A woman tramping up along the road. A steady summer rain falls, wetting her, but she does not
heed it; other things are in her mind--anxiety. Barbro it is, and no other--Brede's girl, Barbro.
Anxious, ay; not knowing how the venture will end; she has gone from service at the Lensmand's,
and left the village. That is the matter.

She keeps away from all the farms on the road up, unwilling to meet with folk; easy to see
where she was going, with a bundle of clothing on her back. Ay, going to Maaneland, to take
service there again.

Ten months she has been at the Lensmand's now, and 'tis no little time, reckoned out in days
and nights, but an eternity reckoned in longing and oppression. It had been bearable at first,
Fru Heyerdahl looking after her kindly, giving her aprons and neat things to wear; 'twas a
joy to be sent on errands to the store with such fine clothes to wear. Barbro had been in the
village as a child; she knew all the village folk from the days when she had played there,
gone to school there, kissed the lads there, and joined in many games with stones and shells.
Bearable enough for a month or so. But then Fru Heyerdahl had begun to be even more careful
about her, and when the Christmas festivities began, she was strict. And what good could ever
come of that? It was bound to spoil things. Barbro could never have endured it but that she
had certain hours of the night to herself; from two to six in the morning she was more or less
safe, and had stolen pleasures not a few. What about Cook, then, for not reporting her? A nice
sort of woman she must be! Oh, an ordinary woman enough, as the world finds them; Cook went
out without leave herself. They took it in turns. And it was quite a long time before they
were found out. Barbro was by no means so depraved that it showed in her face, impossible to
accuse her of immorality. Immorality? She made all the resistance one could expect. When young
men asked her to go to a Christmas dance, she said "No" once, said "No" twice, but the third
time she would say: "I'll try and come from two to six." Just as a decent woman should, not
trying to make herself out worse than she is, and making a display of daring. She was a servant-girl,
serving all her time, and knew no other recreation than fooling with men. It was all she asked
for. Fru Heyerdahl came and lectured her, lent her books--and a fool for her pains. Barbro
had lived in Bergen and read the papers and been to the theatre! She was no innocent lamb from
the countryside ...

But Fru Heyerdahl must have grown suspicious at last. One day she comes up at three in the
morning to the maids' room and calls: "Barbro!"

"Yes," answers Cook.

"It's Barbro I want. Isn't she there? Open the door."

Cook opens the door and explains as agreed upon, that Barbro had had to run home for a minute
about something. Home for a minute at this time of night? Fru Heyerdahl has a good deal to
say about that. And in the morning there is a scene. Brede is sent for, and Fru Heyerdahl asks:
"Was Barbro at home with you last night--at three o'clock?"

Brede is unprepared, but answers: "Three o'clock? Yes, yes, quite right. We sat up late, there
was something we had to talk about," says Brede.

The Lensmand's lady then solemnly declares that Barbro shall go out no more at nights.

"No, no," says Brede.

"Not as long as she's in this house."

"No, no; there, you can see, Barbro, I told you so," says her father.

"You can go and see your parents now and then during the day," says her mistress.

But Fru Heyerdahl was wide awake enough, and her suspicion was not gone; she waited a week,
and tried at four in the morning. "Barbro!" she called. Oh, but this time 'twas Cook's turn
out, and Barbro was at home; the maids' room was a nest of innocence. Her mistress had to hit
on something in a hurry.

"Did you take in the washing last night?"

"Yes."

"That's a good thing, it's blowing so hard.... Good-night."

But it was not so pleasant for Fru Heyerdahl to get her husband to wake her in the middle of
the night and go padding across herself to the servants' room to see if they were at home.
They could do as they pleased, she would trouble herself no more.

And if it had not been for sheer ill-luck, Barbro might have stayed the year out in her place
that way. But a few days ago the trouble had come.

It was in the kitchen, early one morning. Barbro had been having some words with Cook, and
no light words either; they raised their voices, forgetting all about their mistress. Cook
was a mean thing and a cheat, she had sneaked off last night out of her turn because it was
Sunday. And what excuse had she to give? Going to say good-bye to her favourite sister that
was off to America? Not a bit of it; Cook had made no excuse at all, but simply said that Sunday
night was one had been owing to her for a long time.

"Oh, you've not an atom of truth nor decency in your body!" said Barbro.

And there was the mistress in the doorway.

She had come out, perhaps, with no more thought than that the girls were making too much noise,
but now she stood looking, very closely at Barbro, at Barbro's apron over her breast; ay, leaning
forward and looking very closely indeed. It was a painful moment. And suddenly Fru Heyerdahl
screams and draws back to the door. What on earth can it be? thinks Barbro, and looks down
at herself. Herregud! a flea, nothing more. Barbro cannot help smiling, and being not unused
to acting under critical circumstances, she flicks off the flea at once.

"On the floor!" cried Fru Heyerdahl. "Are you mad, girl? Pick it up at once!" Barbro begins
looking about for it, and once more acts with presence of mind: she makes as if she had caught
the creature, and drops it realistically into the fire.

"Where did you get it?" asks her mistress angrily.

"Where I got it?"

"Yes, that's what I want to know."

But here Barbro makes a bad mistake. "At the store," she ought to have said, of course--that
would have been quite enough. As it was--she did not know where she had got the creature, but
had an idea it must have been from Cook.

Cook at the height of passion at once: "From me! You'll please to keep your fleas to yourself,
so there!"

"Anyway, 'twas you was out last night."

Another mistake--she should have said nothing about it. Cook has no longer any reason for keeping
silence, and now she let out the whole thing, and told all about the nights Barbro had been
out. Fru Heyerdahl mightily indignant; she cares nothing about Cook, 'tis Barbro she is after,
the girl whose character she has answered for. And even then all might have been well if Barbro
had bowed her head like a reed, and been cast down with shame, and promised all manner of things
for the future--but no. Her mistress is forced to remind her of all she has done for her, and
at that, if you please, Barbro falls to answering back, ay, so foolish was she, saying impertinent
things. Or perhaps she was cleverer than might seem; trying on purpose, maybe, to bring the
matter to a head, and get out of the place altogether? Says her mistress:

"After I've saved you from the clutches of the Law."

"As for that," answers Barbro, "I'd have just as pleased if you hadn't."

"And that's all the thanks I get," says her mistress.

"Least said the better, perhaps," says Barbro. "I wouldn't have got more than a month or two,
anyway, and done with it."

Fru Heyerdahl is speechless for a moment; ay, for a little while she stands saying nothing,
only opening and closing her mouth. The first thing she says is to tell the girl to go; she
will have no more of her.

"Just as you please," says Barbro.

For some days after that Barbro had been at home with her parents. But she could not go on
staying there. True, her mother sold coffee, and there came a deal of folk to the house, but
Barbro could not live on that--and maybe she had other reasons of her own for wanting to get
into a settled position again. And so today she had taken a sack of clothes on her back, and
started up along the road over the moors. Question now, whether Axel Ström would take her?
But she had had the banns put up, anyway, the Sunday before.

Raining, and dirty underfoot, but Barbro tramps on. Evening is drawing on, but not dark yet
at that season of the year. Poor Barbro--she does not spare herself, but goes on her errand
like another; she is bound for a place, to commence another struggle there. She has never spared
herself, to tell the truth, never been of a lazy sort, and that is why she has her neat figure
now and pretty shape. Barbro is quick to learn things, and often to her own undoing; what else
could one expect? She had learned to save herself at a pinch, to slip from one scrape to another,
but keeping all along some better qualities; a child's death is nothing to her, but she can
still give sweets to a child alive. Then she has a fine musical ear, can strum softly and correctly
on a guitar, singing hoarsely the while; pleasant and slightly mournful to hear. Spared herself?
no; so little, indeed, that she has thrown herself away altogether, and felt no loss. Now and
again she cries, and breaks her heart over this or that in her life--but that is only natural,
it goes with the songs she sings, 'tis the poetry and friendly sweetness in her; she had fooled
herself and many another with the same. Had she been able to bring the guitar with her this
evening she could have strummed a little for Axel when she came.

She manages so as to arrive late in the, evening; all is quiet at Maaneland when she reaches
there. See, Axel has already begun haymaking, the grass is cut near the house, and some of
the hay already in. And then she reckons out that Oline, being old, will be sleeping in the
little room, and Axel lying out in the hayshed, just as she herself had done. She goes to the
door she knows so well, breathless as a thief, and calls softly: "Axel!"

"What's that?" asks Axel all at once.

"Nay, 'tis only me," says Barbro, and steps in. "You couldn't house me for the night?" she says.

Axel looks at her and is slow to think, and sits there in his underclothes, looking at her.
"So 'tis you," says he. "And where'll you be going?"

"Why, depends first of all if you've need of help to the summer work," says she.

Axel thinks over that, and says: "Aren't you going to stay where you were, then?"

"Nay; I've finished at the Lensmand's."

"I might be needing help, true enough, for the summer," said Axel. "But what's it mean, anyway,
you wanting to come back?"

"Nay, never mind me," says Barbro, putting it off. "I'll go on again tomorrow. Go to Sellanraa
and cross the hills. I've a place there."

"You've fixed up with some one there?"

"Ay."

"I might be needing summer help myself," says Axel again.

Barbro is wet through; she has other clothes in her sack, and must change. "Don't mind about
me," says Axel, and moves a bit toward the door, no more.

Barbro takes off her wet clothes, they talking the while, and Axel turning his head pretty
often towards her. "Now you'd better go out just a bit," says she.

"Out?" says he. And indeed 'twas no weather to go out in. He stands there, seeing her more
and more stripped; 'tis hard to keep his eyes away; and Barbro is so thoughtless, she might
well have put on dry things bit by bit as she took oft the wet, but no. Her shift is thin and
clings to her; she unfastens a button at one shoulder, and turns aside, 'tis nothing new for
her. Axel dead silent then, and he sees how she makes but a touch or two with her hands and
washes the last of her clothes from her. 'Twas splendidly done, to his mind. And there she
stands, so utterly thoughtless of her....

A while after, they lay talking together. Ay, he had need of help for the summer, no doubt
about that.

"They said something that way," says Barbro.

He had begun his mowing and haymaking all alone again; Barbro could judge for herself how awkward
it was for him now.--Ay, Barbro understood.--On the other hand, it was Barbro herself that
had run away and left him before, without a soul to help him, he can't forget that. And taken
her rings with her into the bargain. And on top of all that, shameful as it was, the paper
that kept on coming, that Bergen newspaper it seemed he would never get rid of; he had had
to go on paying for it a whole year after.

"'Twas shameful mean of them," says Barbro, taking his part all the time.

But seeing her all submissive and gentle, Axel himself could not be altogether heartless towards
her; he agreed that Barbro might have some reason to be angry with him in return for the way
he had taken the telegraph business from her father. "But as for that," said he, "your father
can have the telegraph business again for me; I'll have no more of it, 'tis but a waste of time."

"Ay," says Barbro.

Axel thought for a while, then asked straight out: "Well, what about it now, would you want
to come for the summer and no more?"

"Nay," says Barbro, "let it be as you please."

"You mean that, and truly?"

"Ay, just as you please, and I'll be pleased with the same. You've no call to doubt about me
any more."

"H'm."

"No, 'tis true. And I've ordered about the banns."

H'm. This was not so bad. Axel lay thinking it over a long time. If she meant it in earnest
this time, and not shameful deceit again, then he'd a woman of his own and help for as long
as might be.

"I could get a woman to come from our parts," said he, "and she's written saying she'd come.
But then I'd have to pay her fare from America."

Says Barbro: "Ho, she's in America, then?"

"Ay. Went over last year she did, but doesn't care to stay."

"Never mind about her," says Barbro. "And what'd become of me then?" says she, and begins to
be soft and mournful.

"No. That's why I've not fixed up all certain with her."

And after that, Barbro must have something to show in return; she confessed about how she could
have taken a lad in Bergen, and he was a carter in a big brewery, a mighty big concern, and
a good position. "And he'll be sorrowing for me now, I doubt," says Barbro, and makes a little
sob. "But you know how 'tis, Axel; when there's two been so much together as you and I, 'tis
more than I could ever forget. And you can forget me as much as you please."

"What! me?" says Axel. "Nay, no need to lie there crying for that, my girl, for I've never
forgot you."

"Well...."

Barbro feels a deal better after that confession, and says: "Anyway, paying her fare all the
way from America when there's no need...." She advises him to have nothing to do with that
business; 'twould be over costly, and there was no need. Barbro seemed resolved to build up
his happiness herself.

They came to agreement all round in the course of the night. 'Twas not as if they were strangers;
they had talked over everything before. Even the necessary marriage ceremony was to take place
before St. Olaf's Day and harvest; they had no need to hide things, and Barbro was now herself
most eager to get it done at once. Axel was not any put out at her eagerness, and it did not
make him any way suspicious; far from it, he was flattered and encouraged to find her so. Ay,
he was a worker in the fields, no doubt, a thick-skinned fellow, not used to looking over fine
at things, nothing delicate beyond measure; there were things he was obliged to do, and he
looked to what was useful first of all. Moreover, here was Barbro all new and pretty again,
and nice to him, almost sweeter than before. Like an apple she was, and he bit at it. The banns
were already put up.

As to the dead child and the trial, neither said a word of that.

But they did speak of Oline, of how they were to get rid of her. "Ay, she must go," said Barbro.
"We've nothing to thank her for, anyway. She's naught but tale-bearing and malice."

But it proved no easy matter to get Oline to go.

The very first morning, when Barbro appeared, Oline was clear, no doubt, as to her fate. She
was troubled at once, but tried not to show it, and brought out a chair. They had managed up
to then at Maaneland. Axel had carried water and wood and done the heaviest work, and Oline
doing the rest. And gradually she had come to reckon on staying the rest of her life on the
place. Now came Barbro and upset it all.

"If we'd only a grain of coffee in the house you should have it," said she to Barbro. "Going
farther up, maybe?"

"No," said Barbro.

"Ho! Not going farther?"

"No."

"Why, 'tis no business of mine, no," says Oline. "Going down again, maybe?"

"No. Nor going down again. I'm staying here for now."

"Staying here, are you?"

"Ay, staying here, I doubt."

Oline waits for a moment, using her old head, full of policy. "Ay, well," says she. "'Twill
save me, then, no doubt. And glad I'll be for the same."

"Oho," says Barbro in jest, "has Axel here been so hard on you this while?"

"Hard on me? Axel! Oh, there's no call to turn an old body's words, there's naught but living
on and waiting for the blessed end. Axel that's been as a father and a messenger from the Highest
to me day and hour together, and gospel truth the same. But seeing I've none of my own folks
here, and living alone and rejected under a stranger's roof, with all my kin over across the
hills...."

But for all that, Oline stayed on. They could not get rid of her till after they were wed,
and Oline made a deal of reluctance, but said "Yes" at last, and would stay so long to please
them, and look to house and cattle while they went down to the church. It took two days. But
when they came back wedded and all, Oline stayed on as before. She put off going; one day she
was feeling poorly, she said; the next it looked like rain. She made up to Barbro with smooth
words about the food. Oh, there was a mighty difference in the food now at Maaneland; 'twas
different living now, and a mighty difference in the coffee now. Oh, she stopped at nothing,
that Oline; asked Barbro's advice on things she knew better herself. "What you think now, should
I milk cows as they stand in their place and order, or should I take cow Bordelin first?"

"You can do as you please."

"Ay, 'tis as I always said," exclaims Oline. "You've been out in the world and lived among
great folks and fine folks, and learned all and everything. 'Tis different with the likes of me."

Ay, Oline stopped at nothing, she was intriguing all day long. Sitting there telling Barbro
how she herself was friends and on the best of terms with Barbro's father, with Brede Olsen!
Ho, many a pleasant hour they'd had together, and a kindly man and rich and grand to boot was
Brede, and never a hard word in his mouth.

But this could not go on for ever; neither Axel nor Barbro cared to have Oline there any longer,
and Barbro had taken over all her work. Oline made no complaint, but she flashed dangerous
glances at her young mistress and changed her tone ever so little.

"Ay, great folk, 'tis true. Axel, he was in town a while last harvest-time--you didn't meet
him there, maybe? Nay, that's true, you were in Bergen that time. But he went into town, he
did; 'twas all to buy a mowing-machine and a harrow-machine. And what's folk at Sellanraa now
beside you here? Nothing to compare!"

She was beginning to shoot out little pinpricks, but even that did not help her now; neither
of them feared her. Axel told her straight out one day that she must go.

"Go?" says Oline. "And how? Crawling, belike?" No, she would not go, saying by way of excuse
that she was poorly, and could not move her legs. And to make things bad as could be, when
once they had taken the work off her hands, and she had nothing to do at all, she collapsed,
and was thoroughly ill. She kept about for a week in spite of it, Axel looking furiously at
her; but she stayed on from sheer malice, and at last she had to take to her bed.

And now she lay there, not in the least awaiting her blessed end, but counting the hours till
she should be up and about again. She asked for a doctor, a piece of extravagance unheard of
in the wilds.

"Doctor?" said Axel. "Are you out of your senses?"

"How d'you mean, then?" said Oline quite gently, as to something she could not understand.
Ay, so gentle and smooth-tongued was she, so glad to think she need not be a burden to others;
she could pay for the doctor herself.

"Ho, can you?" said Axel.

"Why, and couldn't I, then?" says Oline. "And, anyway, you'd not have me lie here and die like
a dumb beast in the face of the Lord?"

Here Barbro put in a word, and was unwise enough to say:

"Well, what you've got to complain of, I'd like to know, when I bring you in your meals and
all myself? As for coffee, I've said you're better without it, and meaning well."

"Is that Barbro?" says Oline, turning just her eyes and no more to look for her; ay, she is
poorly is Oline, and a pitiful sight with her eyes screwed round cornerways. "Ay, maybe 'tis
as you say, Barbro, if a tiny drop of coffee'd do me any harm, a spoonful and no more."

"If 'twas me in your stead, I'd be thinking of other things than coffee at this hour," says Barbro.

"Ay, 'tis as I say," answers Oline. "'Twas never your way to wish and desire a fellow-creature's
end, but rather they should be converted and live. What ... ay, I'm lying here and seeing things....
Is it with child you are now, Barbro?"

"What's that you say?" cries Barbro furiously; and goes on again: "Oh, 'twould serve you right
if I took and heaved you out on the muck-heap for your wicked tongue."

And at that the invalid was silent for one thoughtful moment, her mouth trembling as if trying
so hard to smile, but dare not.

"I heard a some one calling last night," says she.

"She's out of her senses," says Axel, whispering.

"Nay, out of my senses that I'm not. Like some one calling it was. From the woods, or maybe
from the stream up yonder. Strange to hear--as it might be a bit of a child crying out. Was
that Barbro went out?"

"Ay," says Axel. "Sick of your nonsense, and no wonder."

"Nonsense, you call it, and out of my senses, and all? Ah, but not so far as you'd like to
think," says Oline. "Nay, 'tis not the Almighty's will and decree I should come before the
Throne and before the Lamb as yet, with all I know of goings-on here at Maaneland. I'll be
up and about again, never fear; but you'd better be fetching a doctor, Axel, 'tis quicker that
way. What about that cow you were going to give me?"

"Cow? What cow?"

"That cow you promised me. Was it Bordelin, maybe?"

"You're talking wild," says Axel.

"You know how you promised me a cow the day I saved your life."

"Nay, that I never knew."

At that Oline lifts up her head and looks at him. Grey and bald she is, a head standing up
on a long, scraggy neck--ugly as a witch, as an ogress out of a story. And Axel starts at the
sight, and fumbles with a hand behind his back for the latch of the door.

"Ho," says Oline, "so you're that sort! Ay, well--say no more of it now. I can live without
the cow from this day forth, and never a word I'll say nor breathe of it again. But well that
you've shown what sort and manner of man you are this day; I know it now. Ay, and I'll know
it another time."

But Oline, she died that night--some time in the night; anyway, she was cold next morning when
they came in.

Oline--an aged creature. Born and died....

'Twas no sorrow to Axel nor Barbro to bury her, and be quit of her for ever; there was less
to be on their guard against now, they could be at rest. Barbro is having trouble with her
teeth again; save for that, all is well. But that everlasting woollen muffler over her face,
and shifting it aside every time there's a word to say--'twas plaguy and troublesome enough,
and all this toothache is something of a mystery to Axel. He has noticed, certainly, that she
chews her food in a careful sort of way, but there's not a tooth missing in her head.

"Didn't you get new teeth?" he asks.

"Ay, so I did."

"And are they aching, too?"

"Ah, you with your nonsense!" says Barbro irritably, for all that Axel has asked innocently
enough. And in her bitterness she lets out what is the matter. "You can see how 'tis with me,
surely?"

How 'twas with her? Axel looks closer, and fancies she is stouter than need be.

"Why, you can't be--'tis surely not another child again?" says he.

"Why, you know it is," says she.

Axel stares foolishly at her. Slow of thought as he is, he sits there counting for a bit: one
week, two weeks, getting on the third week....

"Nay, how I should know...." says he.

But Barbro is losing all patience with this debate, and bursts out, crying aloud, crying like
a deeply injured creature: "Nay, you can take and bury me, too, in the ground, and then you'll
be rid of me."

Strange, what odd things a woman can find to cry for!

Axel had never a thought of, burying her in the ground; he is a thick-skinned fellow, looking
mainly to what is useful; a pathway carpeted with flowers is beyond his needs.

"Then you'll not be fit to work in the fields this summer?" says he.

"Not work?" says Barbro, all terrified again. And then--strange what odd things a woman can
find to smile for! Axel, taking it that way, sent a flow of hysterical joy through Barbro,
and she burst out: "I'll work for two! Oh, you wait and see, Axel; I'll do all you set me to,
and more beyond. Wear myself to the bone, I will, and be thankful, if only you'll put up with
me so!"

More tears and smiles and tenderness after that. Only the two of them in the wilds, none to
disturb them; open doors and a humming of flies in the summer heat. All so tender and willing
was Barbro; ay, he might do as he pleased with her, and she was willing.

After sunset he stands harnessing up to the mowing-machine; there's a bit he can still get
done ready for tomorrow. Barbro comes hurrying out, as if she's something important, and says:

"Axel, how ever could you think of getting one home from America? She couldn't get here before
winter, and what use of her then?" And that was something had just come into her head, and
she must come running out with it as if 'twas something needful.

But 'twas no way needful; Axel had seen from the first that taking Barbro would mean getting
help for all the year. No swaying and swinging with Axel, no thinking with his head among the
stars. Now he's a woman of his own to look after the place, he can keep on the telegraph business
for a bit. 'Tis a deal of money in the year, and good to reckon with as long as he's barely
enough for his needs from the land, and little to sell. All sound and working well; all good
reality. And little to fear from Brede about the telegraph line, seeing he's son-in-law to
Brede now.

Ay, things are looking well, looking grand with Axel now.

Chapter XI

And time goes on; winter is passed; spring comes again.

Isak has to go down to the village one day--and why not? What for? "Nay, I don't know," says
he. But he gets the cart cleaned up all fine, puts in the seat, and drives off, and a deal
of victuals and such put in, too--and why not? 'Twas for Eleseus at Storborg. Never a horse
went out from Sellanraa but there was something taken down to Eleseus.

When Isak came driving down over the moors, 'twas no little event, for he came but rarely,
Sivert going most ways in his stead. At the two farms nearest down, folk stand at the door
of the huts and tell one another: "'Tis Isak himself; and what'll he be going down after today?"
And, coming down as far as to Maaneland, there's Barbro at the glass window with a child in
her arms, and sees him, and says: "'Tis Isak himself!"

He comes to Storborg and pulls up. They had to prevent some bottles, and they left empty, tested to drink some
alcohol, toiletries, cologne or something, laughing at the faces and nausea that caused some
scented liquid.

- When we were happier, came the quarrel between the Belgian and German relative Nelida the two
closest friends, always together since they entered the ship. I believe that the background
hated without knowing it. Needless to say to you who the real culprit ... Who it be? ... Nelida.
And the funny part is that neither the name, but both had it in thought. They were angry for
days, since the girl you noticed. It was fortunate that you did not walk last night by the ship.
We would have had a disappointment.

The two rivals were responsible for the deviation of the girl. Each of them imagined that of being
left alone at her side might have to withhold. But they were hampered with each other's presence,
ending up in strength Nélida tire of rivalry and jealousy. And this silent hatred that the two
had in his mind had broken out in the morning with speed and inconsistency of drunken quarrels.
A few words offensive to which he paid no attention to the rest of
the band, and suddenly the air bottles, slapping, melee.

- A very
sad, friend Ojeda.

By the will of the German, the spot was over the incident. He has a swollen eye and the other carries
in what looks like a cheek tumor. The two are alike. No longer needed to be friends again ... But
the Belgian understands things differently. Brings up his barony, and also I think it was a second
lieutenant in the National Guard do not know what or reservation of your country. In short, it
has drawn his sword and his commitment to fight with pal, then shake hands in peace. And both have
been entrusted to me in this of mourning.

Maltrana modestly excused himself.

- Do not miss you this choice.

They have learned that I had in our country some challenges (because with them I was the bread),
and look at me with such respect as if the Round Table ... Furthermore, it has also influenced
my success oratory last night, the new prestige around me. One who speaks well is known to fit all
... up to rule people.

And Fernando could not give him what he needed, he moved away in search of weapons. Would do
the same question to other passengers of distinction, and if they had no "by chance" a box
of pistols, a revolver would arrange the meeting, choosing two completely
equal among the many that had been offered.

Walking the deck Ojeda saw adversaries, one in the den and one terrace on the balconies with bow,
displaying both in the face, without any modesty, traces of collision night. The band was divided
according to their opinions and feelings, leaving a group around
German and another next to the Baron.

The two were kept arrogant attitude, as actors monitor their movements, knowing that all eyes
are on them.

Nelida not remember anyone. This clash, which could have tragic consequences, had removed all of
interest to troubled girl and her insolent caprices. Ojeda saw it coming to him going to the
group formed by the Baron and his friends on the terrace of the den.

We all saw with indifference, or even turned their eyes to follow while walked away. The service
was for the hero, with the swollen cheek, recounted for the fourth
After a terrible challenge that nearly killed her rival.

When meeting Nelida Fernando spoke in haste.

Was looking for from one hour before the whole ship ... What happened to her brother's fault!
...

- When you see my dad, tell him you were staying with me until three o'clock in the dining room
and I found it at one. He will ask, but if you do not ask, tell it all modes.

Imprudent had the night before to go for it, leaving the forgotten
key in the door of his cabin.

The "goofy", or brother, eager to avenge the blows in the afternoon, had closed the door to notice
his departure, pocketing the key. Useless Nelida's pleas when, back in the morning, tried to
soften his brother calling at the door of his cabin. Pretended to
be asleep.

And she had spent the rest of the night a chair in the dining room, in darkness, invisible to
the band, who were divided back and forth with the turmoil of the recent fighting.

The servants who were on duty could testify that he had spent the night in the dining room. Simple
matter to change the hours, saying she was there long before. All ship servants smiled at her
and were ready to say what she should ask them ...

A stormy family
scene when the worthy Mr. Kasper and his wife got up and opened the
son of empty cabin door.

"Nelida spent the night outside." But it came Nelida like a beast, and had to start the "eejit"
of his hands. One bandit had taken output a short endorsed by hygienic requirements to close the
door, leaving out the cabin, compelled to wander the ship, exposed to dangers and gossip ...
all for desire to slander.

She had spent the night sitting in the dining room had witnesses: the servants who were guard. Could
still provide important testimony: Dr. Ojeda, who had found at one and a half, when he retired
to his cabin, accompanied till three. When martyred was going to end this evil? ...

The mother sided with the son, looking at her with angry eyes. It
was the shame of the family was going to kill dislikes.

"Dad ... Dad, "pleaded Nelida. And Mr. Kasper reflected as a righteous king, stroking his
beard. Caution! Had to weigh good things to be fair. The girl gave evidence, and insist he knew
only a fool in his charge, without adding any testimony. And almost ruled in advance, trying to Repelon
give the boy. "Malicious and vindictive race! Nothing good could be expected from their blood.
"

Nelida was not afraid to anger their parents, but I needed to convince them of his innocence to
cosign it with the dreaded brother who was waiting at the end of
the trip.

And yet resisted Fernando when she spoke to flee, as if you propose something crazy? No, not go
to Buenos Aires, was determined to escape the next day ... But the immediate did you really
insist on their recommendations:

- When Dad asks you, you know what to say ... And if you do not ask, talk to you. Do it, my dad,
I know goodie. There you have it near the den, talking to Mr. Perez. He is glad to see you,
says you're the best person on board.

And pushed him gently, exaggerating the gestures and glances of seduction. Ojeda, with his passivity
common to the mandate of a woman, continued the momentum, going in search of Mr. Kasper. Which
of lies and entanglements with this girl! ... Fortunately, the day of release was next, and once
on land, would see more.

Fernando smiled the patriarch, without interrupting your conversation
so with Perez.

Spoke policy, agreeing the two in a love of strong governments and the need to shoot all the enemies
of the authority. Mr. Kasper hated the republics, governments of ragamuffins with coat of
hungry talkative. The people should be governed by men Horse, with dazzling uniforms. And glad
that he had played this way at birth in Germany, overwhelmed with irony and sarcasm to the
most famous of the Republics. Never wanted to live in Paris. A nation run by lawyers and journalists!
A village without morality and almost no family! Everyone knew this ...

Fernando desirous to retain, let Perez set out to find the third snack of morning, and left alone,
was the patriarch who launched the explanation sought by Nelida.

He knew that Mr. Ojeda had accompanied the girl most of the night in the dining room. I thanked
him for his kindness. I could not have found a better companion to him, a distinguished gentleman
and serious.

Were quarrels among boys, a child genius child, which gave him much trouble. The blood of grandparents
woke Creole in his veins ... His eldest son was more balanced, but in character, there is going to
the other.

Interesting people and awesome! ... Nelida and he was calmer, Germans, genius as always.

Praise was the favorite daughter, completely forgetting the incident last night without asking
for further clarification Ojeda ridding the need to lie, saying it all, as if he were better
informed than anyone else for the sole testimony of Nelida. And accompanying their words with
such smiles, Fernando finally feel embarrassed. "This man is fool - I thought - silly as his
youngest son. "But then he looked doubtful. "Or maybe it's cool.

The biggest crook I ever met. "

Meanwhile, Mr. Kasper spent with mild praise your child to talk business of America, a theme
that persisted until the touch of noon, the group broke up, pushing people to dinner.

After lunch, many passengers, rather than remain sprawled on the seats
winter garden occupying people faults, quickly took out the coffee
and if they were in search of something important.

The desks of the rooms and the smoking room were occupied by men and women who wrote and wrote,
taking with them a lot of sealed letters with addresses on. Above their heads went rapacious
hands, taking over with a profusion of envelopes and sheets. The servants ran, not knowing how
to go to so many appeals. All asked the same thing: paper and pens.

It raised questions for travelers to beg the loan of a pen.

Improvisábanse desktops between the cups of coffee, as well as cover the tables and pianos.
All had suddenly felt the need to write. The next day came the Goethe to port, and people
awakened from his reverie blue lasted ten days. They remembered that there was the world, that
they were not alone on the planet, and had a life beyond the ocean extension with which they
would get back in touch.

The men turned away from the ladies, which had courted before. Grim and worried, looking for a corner
and biting the end of the toothpick to the statement virgin, knowing
how to resume their ideas.

Women seemed more serious and quiet, possessed of sudden asceticism. Shunned the talks, as if
they were dangerous to their virtue. Wanted being alone, and moved in this isolate his pen slowly,
hesitantly between line and line, as if afraid to say too little to say.

Isidro, who had to write to anyone - they just thought to send your child a postcard groups of blacks
to go ashore - ironically this fever graphomaniac contemplated. What of lies on paper, fake stories
to fill last-minute statements, with no transparent truth! Which of oaths of eternal memory,
when the poor memories ground had not left the luggage and they remained huddled, like garments unused,
while forgetfulness and the desire of pleasure without consequences had dominion over the ship!
... Maltrana thought that if all this avalanche of lies suddenly becomes solid, the poor would
go to fund Goethe could not resist such an enormous weight.

Among those who wrote was Ojeda. Hunched over a small table of the conservatory, was filling
sheets, as well as on the eve of the arrival in Tenerife.

But alas! his letter was now a literary and thoughtful. The memories came to interrupt his
writing, as the other time, but these memories evoked sweet melancholy, but shame and remorse.

Eleven
days had little time between the two letters. What event! ... What treachery and vile! I felt
doubts about his personality: he believed that during this time was
verified it a prodigious unfold.

He was not the same as wholeheartedly threw on paper the couple's passionate Wagnerian oaths.
'Far from one another, Who shall separate us ?...» These words made up in his memory, as evidence
of infidelity, several figures Women's: Maud, Mina, that Nelida, who was patrolling near him, who
looked out the window His face immediately beckoned insolent eyes, lips, to come out soon.

Fortunately, the proximity of the land was to dispel this voluptuous intoxication Ocean that had
kept him in friendly unconsciousness.

The memory of Teri, sleeping during the trip, reemerged stronger, higher profile, bulky exaggerated
by the light of remorse. And this remorse seemed to add a new incentive to his love. It was something
akin to sacrilege or kinship, that season some passions with the acrid scent of the forbidden
attraction and the monstrous.

Feeling uneasy conscience, Teri adored more than when he could contemplate without fear face to
face. "I love her - she thought - as I have not ever wanted. Betrayal and need to be forgiven for
giving a new love interest.

They are like hot sauces that renew the taste of a dish known ... "Ah, poor deluded Teri,
you may not find out ever of these infidelities! He would atone for their crimes more vigorously
adoring, would live in his imagination an ideal honeymoon, surrounding
it with all the splendors of a cult as the sinner who worships the
image grateful to forgive and look at you with eyes mercy.

Strengthened by such purpose, he continued to write with more fluency and ingenuity, as if
was the same man ten days before and is equal to that letter had been sent from Tenerife. But it
was the same, could be seen bound to recognize. Your sins linking to this vessel, and until we come
out of it, their efforts would be useless to return to the past.

Increasingly fleeing their eyes from the paper, they found a shadow in the window. Nelida was
that approached with a smile boldly, without fear of curious people. He coughed to indicate his
impatience, he moved his lips, I gathered them admiring the silent
words of passion "My Own ... old ... my black!

".

Useless these calls.

He continued his letter with the memory occupied by the memory Teri, but this was not prevented, by custom
or by "professional integrity", the answer with smiles and nods to
silent strokes Nelida.

Fatigue is of the immobility of Ojeda, finally away from the window, going to the ahead of the walk,
where they were Isidro and Dr. Zurita.

Watching the horizon as if waiting to see land. America! America would soon! ... The doctor talked
about this with some emotion. For days the ship finance their beloved continent, but from far
away.

Now approached him, but would not land until late at night ... And the next morning, the bay of Rio de
Janeiro.

Nelida, who had approached the two men, greeting with a nod, looked at the doctor. Very nice
old! For her, all men were friendly. Should have been in his youth a good boy. His eldest son
was also. Great pity that like both the singers of the operetta and could speak only in Paris,
as in the rest there were no women in the world.

Zurita greeted the young man with a gallant gesture old and did not deal more of it. Interesting
Girl! ... But he had his family aboard, their daughters and sisters, and wanted to avoid at all these
friendly relations that could be dangerous.

The doctor continued talking under the vague look of Nelida, who did not understand much about
the conversation of the two men.

- I guess, hey, what must have felt those Spanish to distinguish the first island ... The joy
with which Rodrigo de Triana, the sailor of Columbus, had launched the cry of "Land!".

Maltrana spoke with some pride to be able to showcase their skills before Nelida. In addition,
oratorical triumph had developed in him a strong desire to make everyone feel the authority and
the weight of his words.

- There are errors in what you say, doctor, and that's what it says
just about everyone.

Nor that first discovered the land of America was called Rodrigo de Triana, nor was a sailor Columbus.

With
such a name did not include any crew member on the first trip.

Who gave the cry of discovery was one such Rodríguez Bermejo, a native of Seville, and certainly
the admiral, speaking of him Rodrigo Rodriguez converted, and added
Triana having lived in that neighborhood.

Among seafarers was common disfigurement name-calling and the place
of birth.

In addition, Juan Rodríguez Bermejo was not seaworthy ship Santa Maria, who rode Admiral, but
of the caravel Pinta, commanded by Pinzon, who was always ahead of
Squadron to be the most sailer.

- Which was the Pinta sighted at
two o'clock, the island of Guanahani, and Rodriguez Bermejo which
gave the cry of "Land !...».

But Columbus, returning to Spain, said he was himself who at ten o'clock at night, or four hours before,
I saw a light "like a candle up and down "and that this light came from the island. We must take
into account that the Almirante was then about fourteen miles from
the island, and it is quite low, without a hill.

Impossible to see at a time when the Pinta, which was sailing far ahead, had not achieved still
to distinguish land. The light was undoubtedly that of the log Carvel Finch, who moved from the
ship of the Admiral and the island is still distant.

Isidro He paused, enjoying the curiosity of the doctor, who listened to him very closely.

- The result of all this - he continued - was a great injustice. The king had promised a prize
of ten thousand maravedíes the first to discover land, and Columbus,
who did not forgive advantage, claimed that amount, based on what
"the candle."

Finch, who could testify truth, had just died, and the poor Rodríguez Bermejo, to be unfairly
deprived by the great man, without anyone handle your complaints, felt such despair that was
passed Africa and denounced the Christian faith, becoming brown.

This was the end of the first that his eyes he saw the American land.

Dr. Zurita was thoughtful.

- By luck, che - whispered - that the civilized life of our hemisphere begins with an injustice, by
an act of favoritism, abuse of bossy.

Maltrana nodded it was. And the doctor smiled slyly, as if, after knowing this understand the history
of the New World.

XI

Stopping the liner, after many days of walking, a feeling of strangeness
seemed to move around him, from the keel to the top of the masts.

It
was shortly after sunrise, and all passengers, even the late riser,
woke about the same time, with the same shock of experiencing a sudden
difficulty in respiratory organs.

Accustomed to the gentle rocking
of the bed, the pendulum motion of the clothes hanging to uneven floor
alternative to the flow of objects on tables and chairs, as something
natural existence of this ocean, watching all felt some anxiety as
they enter around in rigid immobility. The ear, accustomed to constant
friction in the foam sides of the ship, to the thrill of the atmosphere
crossed by the momentum of the march, the distant hum of the machines
by extending the vibration of the giant walls and partitions steel
vessel, now housed in amazement this sudden silence, absolute, overwhelming,
as if the ship floating on nothing.

Guessed the presence, beyond
the skylights of the cabin, something extraordinary. The air was less
pure, salt fumes, with clouds of still water that smelled a rotting
seafood, and along with it a distant scent of wild forest.

People
ran for cover almost half dressed, and his eyes, accustomed to the
infinite blue rudely encountered with the vision of land immediate
costs covered up black forests atop glossy, a light green, as if she
had washed the rain.

On both sides of the ship alzábanse the mountains
that guard the entrance of the bay of Rio de Janeiro. Aft, the open
sea was almost hidden behind a rocky islands with lighthouses on their
summits. Against the bow, the bay was masked by the enormous progress
that seemed small capes shut off the flow.

People watched the landscape
with the ease of a long voyage discovered that after reaching an unknown
land, admiring the lush tropical forests, the original form the mountains,
each of bizarre outlines. Sketches seemed a monstrous statues strewn
along the ocean, the remains of tinkering with a gigantic hand had
been entertained to amass land and rocks. Heights were conical, slender
regulate, others evoked the image of a huge nose, a face with eyelashes,
a strong-willed chin. Better, maybe, if he'd worked on the land
all the time, but now he's a man that has learned to write and use letters; no grip in him,
no depth. For all that, no pitch-black devil of a man, not in love, not ambitious, hardly nothing
at all is Eleseus, not even a bad thing of any great dimensions.

Something unfortunate, ill-fated about this young man, as if something were rotting him from
within. That engineer from the town, good man--better perhaps, if he had not discovered the
lad in his youth and taken him up to make something out of him; the child had lost his roothold,
and suffered thereby. All that he turns to now leads back to something wanting in him, something
dark against the light....

Eleseus goes on and on. The two in the cart ahead pass by Storborg. Eleseus goes a long way
round, and he too passes by; what was he to do there, at home, at his trading station and store?
The two in the cart get to Sellanraa at nightfall; Eleseus is close at their heels. Sees Sivert
come out in the yard, all surprised to see Jensine, and the two shake hands and laugh a little;
then Sivert takes the horse out and leads it to stable.

Eleseus ventures forward; the pride of the family, he ventures up a little. Not walking up,
but stealing up; he comes on Sivert in the stable. "'Tis only me," he says.

"What--you too?" says Sivert, all astonished again.

The two brothers begin talking quietly; about Sivert getting his mother to find some money;
a last resource, the money for a journey. Things can't go on this way; Eleseus is weary of
it; has been thinking of it a long time now, and he must go tonight; a long journey, to America,
and start tonight.

"America?" says Sivert out loud.

"Sh! I've been thinking of it a long time, and you must get her to do as I say; it can't go
on like this, and I've been thinking of going for ever so long."

"But America!" says Sivert. "No, don't you do it."

"I'm going. I've settled that. Going back now to catch the boat."

"But you must have something to eat."

"I'm not hungry."

"But rest a bit, then?"

"No."

Sivert is trying to act for the best, and hold his brother back, but Eleseus is determined,
ay, for once he is determined. Sivert himself is all taken aback; first of all it was a surprise
to see Jensine again, and now here's Eleseus going to leave the place altogether, not to say
the world. "What about Storborg?" says he. "What'll you do with it?"

"Andresen can have it," says Sivert.

"Andresen have it? How d'you mean?"

"Isn't he going to have Leopoldine?"

"Don't know about that. Ay; perhaps he is."

They talk quietly, keep on talking. Sivert thinks it would be best if his father came out and
Eleseus could talk to him himself; but "No, no!" whispers Eleseus again; he was never much
of a man to face a thing like that, but always must have a go-between.

Says Sivert: "Well, mother, you know how 'tis with her. There'll be no getting any way with
her for crying and talking on. She mustn't know."

"No," Eleseus agrees, "she mustn't know."

Sivert goes off, stays away for ages, and comes back with money, a heap of money. "Here, that's
all he has; think it'll be enough? Count--he didn't count how much there was."

"What did he say--father?"

"Nay, he didn't say much. Now you must wait a little, and I'll get some more clothes on and
go down with you."

"'Tis not worth while; you go and lie down."

"Ho, are you frightened of the dark that I mustn't go away?" says Sivert, trying a moment to
be cheerful.

He is away a moment, and comes back dressed, and with his father's food basket over his shoulder.
As they go out, there is their father standing outside. "So you're going all that way, seems?"
says Isak.

"Ay," answered Eleseus; "but I'll be coming back again."

"I'll not be keeping you now--there's little time," mumbles the old man, and turns away. "Good
luck," he croaks out in a strange voice, and goes off all hurriedly.

The two brothers walk down the road; a little way gone, they sit down to eat; Eleseus is hungry,
can hardly eat enough. 'Tis a fine spring night, and the black grouse at play on the hilltops;
the homely sound makes the emigrant lose courage for a moment. "'Tis a fine night," says he.
"You better turn back now, Sivert," says he.

"H'm," says Sivert, and goes on with him.

They pass by Storborg, by Breidablik, and the sound follows them all the way from the hills
here and there; 'tis no military music like in the towns, nay, but voices--a proclamation:
Spring has come. Then suddenly the first chirp of a bird is heard from a treetop, waking others,
and a calling and answering on every side; more than a song, it is a hymn of praise. The emigrant
feels home-sick already, maybe, something weak and helpless in him; he is going off to America,
and none could be more fitted to go than he.

"You turn back now, Sivert," says he.

"Ay, well," says his brother. "If you'd rather."

They sit down at the edge of the wood, and see the village just below them, the store and the
quay, Brede's old lodging-house; some men are moving about by the steamer, getting ready.

"Well, no time to stay sitting here," says Eleseus, getting up again.

"Fancy you going all that way," says Sivert.

And Eleseus answers: "But I'll be coming back again. And I'll have a better sort of trunk that
journey."

As they say good-bye, Sivert thrusts something into his brother's hand, a bit of something
wrapped in paper. "What is it?" asks Eleseus.

"Don't forget to write often," says Sivert. And so he goes.

Eleseus opens the paper and looks; 'tis the gold piece, twenty-five Kroner in gold. "Here,
don't!" he calls out. "You mustn't do that!"

Sivert walks on.

Walks on a little, then turns round and sits down again at the edge of the wood. More folk
astir now down by the steamer; passengers going on board, Eleseus going on board; the boat
pushes off from the side and rows away. And Eleseus is gone to America.

He never came back.

Chapter XII

A notable procession coming up to Sellanraa; Something laughable to look at, maybe, but more
than that. Three men with enormous burdens, with sacks hanging down from their shoulders, front
and back. Walking one behind the other, and calling to one another with jesting words, but
heavily laden. Little Andresen, chief clerk, is head of that procession; indeed, 'tis his procession;
he has fitted out himself, and Sivert from Sellanraa, and one other, Fredrik Ström from Breidablik,
for the expedition. A notable little man is Andresen; his shoulder is weighed down slantwise
on one side, and his jacket pulled all awry at the neck, the way he goes, but he carries his
burden on and on.

Storborg and the business Eleseus had left--well, not bought it straight out on the spot, perhaps,
'tis more than Andresen could afford; better afford to wait a bit and get the whole maybe for
nothing. Andresen is no fool; he has taken over the place on lease for the meanwhile, and manages
the business himself.

Gone through the stock in hand, and found a deal of unsalable truck in Eleseus' store, even
to such things as toothbrushes and embroidered table centres; ay, and stuffed birds on springs
that squeaked when you pressed in the right place.

These are the things he has started out with now, going to sell them to the miners on the other
side of the hills. He knows from Aronsen's time that miners with money in their pockets will
buy anything on earth. Only a pity he had to leave behind six rocking-horses that Eleseus had
ordered on his last trip to Bergen.

The caravan turns into the yard at Sellanraa and sets down its load. No long wait here; they
drink a mug of milk, and make pretence of trying to sell their wares on the spot, then shoulder
their burdens and off again. They are not out for pretence. Off they go, trundling southward
through the forest.

They march till noon, rest for a meal and on again till evening. Then they camp and make a
fire, lie down, and sleep a while. Sivert sleeps resting on a boulder that he calls an arm-chair.
Oh, Sivert knows what he is about; here's the sun been warming that boulder all day, till it's
a good place to sit and sleep. His companions are not so wise, and will not take advice; they
lie down in the heather, and wake up feeling cold, and sneezing. Then they have breakfast and
start off again.

Listening now, for any sound of blasting about; they are hoping to come on the mine, and meet
with folk some time that day. The work should have got so far by now; a good way up from the
water towards Sellanraa. But never a sound of blasting anywhere. They march till noon, meeting
never a soul; but here and there they come upon holes in the ground, where men have been digging
for trial. What can this mean? Means, no doubt, that the ore must be more than commonly rich
at the farther end of the tract; they are getting out pure heavy copper, and keeping to that
end all the time.

In the afternoon they come upon several more mines, but no miners; they march on till evening,
and already they can make out the sea below; marching through a wilderness of deserted mines,
and never a sound. 'Tis all beyond understanding, but nothing for it; they must camp and sleep
out again that night. They talk the matter over: Can the work have stopped? Should they turn
and go back again? "Not a bit of it," says Andresen.

Next morning a man walks into their camp--a pale, haggard man who looks at them frowningly,
piercingly. "That you, Andresen?" says the man. It is Aronsen, Aronsen the trader. He does
not say "No" to a cup of hot coffee and something to eat with the caravan, and settles down
at once. "I saw the smoke of your fire, and came up to see what it was," says he. "I said to
myself, 'Sure enough, they're coming to their senses, and starting work again.' And 'twas only
you, after all! Where you making for, then?"

"Here."

"What's that you've got with you?"

"Goods."

"Goods?" cries Aronsen. "Coming up here with goods for sale? Who's to buy them? There's never
a soul. They left last Saturday gone."

"Left? Who left?"

"All the lot. Not a soul on the place now. And I've goods enough myself, anyway. A whole store
packed full. I'll sell you anything you like."

Oh, Trader Aronsen in difficulties again! The mine has shut down.

They ply him with coffee till he grows calmer, and asks what it all means.

Aronsen shakes his head despairingly. "'Tis beyond understanding, there's no words for it,"
says he. All had been going so well, and he had been selling goods, and money pouring in; the
village round all flourishing, and using the finest meal, and a new schoolhouse, and hanging
lamps and town-made boots, and all! Then suddenly their lordships up at the mine take it into
their heads that the thing isn't paying, and close down. Not paying? But it paid them before?
Wasn't there clean copper there and plain to see at every blasting? 'Twas rank cheating, no
less. "And never a thought of what it means to a man like me. Ay, I doubt it's as they say;
'tis that Geissler's at the bottom of it all, same as before. No sooner he'd come up than the
work stopped; 'twas as if he'd smelt it out somehow."

"Geissler, is he here, then?"

"Is he not? Ought to be shot, he ought! Comes up one day by the steamer and says to the engineer:
'Well, how's things going?'--'All right, as far as I can see,' says the engineer. But Geissler
he just stands there, and asks again: 'Ho, all right, is it?'--'Ay, as far as I know,' says
the engineer. But as true as I'm here, no sooner the post comes up from that same boat Geissler
had come by, than there's letter and telegram both to the engineer that the work wasn't paying,
and he's to shut down at once."

The members of the expedition look at one another, but the leader, Andresen himself, has not
lost courage yet.

"You may just as well turn back and go home again," is Aronsen's advice.

"We're not doing that," says Andresen, and packs up the coffee-pot.

Aronsen stares at the three of them in turn. "You're mad, then," says he.

Look you, Andresen he cares little now for what his master that was can say; he's master himself
now, leader of an expedition equipped at his own expense for a journey to distant parts; 'twould
lose him his prestige to turn back now where he is.

"Well, where will you go?" asks Aronsen irritably.

"Can't say," answers Andresen. But he's a notion of his own all the same, no doubt; thinking,
maybe, of the natives, and coming down into the district three men strong, with glass beads
and finger rings. "We'll be getting on," says he to the rest.

Now, Aronsen had thought like enough to go farther up that morning, seeing he'd come so far,
wanting, maybe, to see if all the place was quite deserted, if it could be true every man on
the place was gone. But seeing these pedlar-folk so set on going on, it hinders him, and he
tells them again and again they're mad to try. Aronsen is furious himself, marches down in
front of the caravan, turning round and shouting at them, barking at them, trying to keep them
out of his district. And so they come down to the huts in the mining centre.

A little town of huts, but empty and desolate. Most of the tools and implements are housed
under cover, but poles and planks, broken carts and cases and barrels, lie all about in disorder;
here and there a notice on a door declares "No admittance."

"There you are," cries Aronsen. "What did I say? Not a soul in the place." And he threatens
the caravan with disaster--he will send for the Lensmand; anyway, he's going to follow them
every step now, and if he can catch them at any unlawful trading 'tis penal servitude and slavery,
no mistake!

All at once somebody calls out for Sivert. The place is not altogether dead, after all, not
utterly deserted; here is a man standing beckoning at the corner of a house. Sivert trundles
over with his load, and sees at once who it is--Geissler.

"Funny meeting you here," says Geissler. His face is red and flourishing, but his eyes apparently
cannot stand the glare of spring, he is wearing smoked glasses. He talks as brilliantly as
ever. "Luckiest thing in the world," says he. "Save me going all the way up to Sellanraa; and
I've a deal to look after. How many settlers are there in the Almenning now?"

"Ten."

"Ten new holdings. I'll agree. I'm satisfied. But 'tis two-and-thirty-thousand men of your
father's stamp the country wants. Ay, that's what I say, and I mean it; I've reckoned it out."

"Sivert, are you coming on?" The caravan is waiting.

Geissler hears, and calls back sharply: "No."

"I'll come on after," calls Sivert, and sets down his load.

The two men sit down and talk. Geissler is in the right mood today; the spirit moves him, and
he talks all the time, only pausing when Sivert puts in a word or so in answer, and then going
on again. "A mighty lucky thing--can't help saying it. Everything turned out just as I wanted
all the way up, and now meeting you here and saving all the journey to Sellanraa. All well
at home, what?"

"All well, and thank you kindly."

"Got up that hayloft yet, over the cowshed?"

"Ay, 'tis done."

"Well, well--I've a heap of things to look to, almost more than I can manage. Look at where
we're sitting now, for instance. What d'you say to that, Sivert man? Ruined city, eh? Men gone
about to build it all against their nature and well-being. Properly speaking, it's all my fault
from the start--that is to say, I'm a humble agent in the workings of fate. It all began when
your father picked up some bits of stone up in the hills, and gave you to play with when you
were a child. That was how it started. I knew well enough those bits of stone were worth exactly
as much as men would give for them, no more; well and good, I set a price on them myself, and
bought them. Then the stones passed from hand to hand, and did no end of damage. Time went
on. And now, a few days ago, I came up here again, and what for, d'you think? To buy those
stones back again!"

Geissler stops for a moment, and looks at Sivert. Then suddenly he glances at the sack, and
asks: "What's that you're carrying?"

"Goods," says Sivert. "We're taking them down to the village."

Geissler does not seem interested in the answer; has not even heard it, like as not. He goes on:

"Buy them back again--yes. Last time, I let my son manage the deal; he sold them then. Young
fellow about your own age, that's all about him. He's the lightning in the family, I'm more
a sort of fog. Know what's the right thing to do, but don't do it. But he's the lightning--and
he's entered the service of industry for the time being. 'Twas he sold for me last time. I'm
something and he's not, he's only the lightning; quick to act, modern type. But the lightning
by itself's a barren thing. Look at you folk at Sellanraa, now; looking up at blue peaks every
day of your lives; no new-fangled inventions about that, but fjeld and rocky peaks, rooted
deep in the past--but you've them for companionship. There you are, living in touch with heaven
and earth, one with them, one with all these wide, deep-rooted things. No need of a sword in
your hands, you go through life bareheaded, barehanded, in the midst of a great kindliness.
Look, Nature's there, for you and yours to have and enjoy. Man and Nature don't bombard each
other, but agree; they don't compete, race one against the other, but go together. There's
you Sellanraa folk, in all this, living there. Fjeld and forest, moors and meadow, and sky
and stars--oh, 'tis not poor and sparingly counted out, but without measure. Listen to me,
Sivert: you be content! You've everything to live on, everything to live for, everything to
believe in; being born and bringing forth, you are the needful on earth. 'Tis not all that
are so, but you are so; needful on earth. 'Tis you that maintain life. Generation to generation,
breeding ever anew; and when you die, the new stock goes on. That's the meaning of eternal
life. What do you get out of it? An existence innocently and properly set towards all. What
you get out of it? Nothing can put you under orders and lord it over you Sellanraa folk, you've
peace and authority and this great kindliness all round. That's what you get for it. You lie
at a mother's breast and suck, and play with a mother's warm hand. There's your father now,
he's one of the two-and-thirty thousand. What's to be said of many another? I'm something,
I'm the fog, as it were, here and there, floating around, sometimes coming like rain on dry
ground. But the others? There's my son, the lightning that's nothing in itself, a flash of
barrenness; he can act.

"My son, ay, he's the modern type, a man of our time; he believes honestly enough all the age
has taught him, all the Jew and the Yankee have taught him; I shake my head at it all. But
there's nothing mythical about me; 'tis only in the family, so to speak, that I'm like a fog.
Sit there shaking my head. Tell the truth--I've not the power of doing things and not regretting
it. If I had, I could be lightning myself. Now I'm a fog."

Suddenly Geissler seems to recollect himself, and asks: "Got up that hayloft yet, above the
cowshed?"

"Ay, that's done. And father's put up a new house."

"New house?"

"'Tis in case any one should come, he says--in case Geissler he should happen to come along."

Geissler thinks over this, and takes his decision: "Well, then, I'd better come. Yes, I'll
come; you can tell your father that. But I've a heap of things to look to. Came up here and
told the engineer to let his people in Sweden know I was ready to buy. And we'd see what happened.
All the same to me, no hurry. You ought to have seen that engineer--here he's been going about
and keeping it all up with men and horses and money and machines and any amount of fuss; thought
it was all right, knew no better. The more bits of stone he can turn into money, the better;
he thinks he's doing something clever and deserving, bringing money to the place, to the country,
and everything nearing disaster more and more, and he's none the wiser. 'Tis not money the
country wants, there's more than enough of it already; 'tis men like your father there's not
enough of. Ay, turning the means to an end in itself and being proud of it! They're mad, diseased;
they don't work, they know nothing of the plough, only the dice. Mighty deserving of them,
isn't it, working and wasting themselves to nothing in their own mad way. Look at them--staking
everything, aren't they? There's but this much wrong with it all; they forget that gambling
isn't courage, 'tis not even foolhardy courage, 'tis a horror. D'you know what gambling is?
'Tis fear, with the sweat on your brow, that's what it is. What's wrong with them is, they
won't keep pace with life, but want to go faster--race on, tear on ahead, driving themselves
into life itself like wedges. And then the flanks of them say: here, stop, there's something
breaking, find a remedy; stop, say the flanks! And then life crushes them, politely but firmly
crushes them. And then they set to complaining about life, raging against life! Each to his
own taste; some may have ground to complain, others not, but there's none should rage against
life. Not be stern and strict and just with life, but be merciful to it, and take its part;
only think of the gamblers life has to bear with!"

Geissler recollects himself again, and says: "Well, all that's as it may be; leave it!" He
is evidently tired, beginning to breathe in little gasps. "Going down?" says he.

"Ay."

"There's no hurry. You owe me a long walk over the hills, Sivert man, remember that? I remember
it all. I remember from the time I was a year and a half; stood leaning down from the barn
bridge at Garmo, and noticed a smell. I can smell it again now. But all that's as it may be,
that too; but we might have done that trip over the hills now if you hadn't got that sack.
What's in it?"

"Goods. 'Tis Andresen is going to sell them."

"Well, then, I'm a man that knows what's the right thing to do, but doesn't do it," says Geissler.
"I'm the fog. Now perhaps I'll buy that mine back again one of these days, it's not impossible;
but if I do, it wouldn't be to go about staring up at the sky and saying, 'Aerial railway!
South America!' No, leave that to the gamblers. Folk hereabout say I must be the devil himself
because I knew beforehand this was going to break up. But there's nothing mystical about me,
'tis simple enough. The new copper mines in Montana, that's all. The Yankees are smarter than
we are at that game; they are cutting us to death in South America--our ore here's too poor.
My son's the lightning; he got the news, and I came floating up here. Simple, isn't it? I beat
those fellows in Sweden by a few hours, that's all."

Geissler is short of breath again; he gets on his feet, and says: "If you're going down, let's
get along."

They go on down together, Geissler dragging behind, all tired out. The caravan has stopped
at the quay, and Fredrik Ström, cheerful as ever, is poking fun at Aronsen: "I'm clean out
of tobacco; got any tobacco, what?"

"I'll give you tobacco," said Aronsen threateningly.

Fredrik laughs, and says comfortingly: "Nay, you've no call to take it all heavy-like and sad,
Aronsen. We're just going to sell these things here before your eyes, and then we'll be off
home again."

"Get away and wash your dirty mouth," says Aronsen furiously.

"Ha ha ha! Nay, you've no call to dance about that way; keep still and look like a picture!"

Geissler is tired, tired out, even his smoked glasses do not help him now, his eyes keep closing
in the glare.

"Good-bye, Sivert man," says he all at once. "No, I can't get up to Sellanraa this time, after
all; tell your father. I've a heap of things to see to. But I'll come later on--say that...."

Aronsen spits after him, and says: "Ought to be shot!"

       *       *       *       *       *

For three days the caravan peddles its wares, selling out the contents of the sacks, and getting
good prices. It was a brilliant piece of business. The village folk were still well supplied
with money after the downfall of the mine, and were excellently in form in the way of spending;
those stuffed birds on springs were the very thing they wanted; they set them up on chests
of drawers in their parlours, and also bought nice paper-knives, the very thing for cutting
the leaves of an almanac. Aronsen was furious. "Just as if I hadn't things every bit as good
in my store," said he.

Trader Aronsen was in a sorry way; he had made up his mind to keep with these pedlars and their
sacks, watching them all the time; but they went separate ways about the village, each for
himself, and Aronsen almost tore himself to pieces trying to follow all at once. First he gave
up Fredrik Ström, who was quickest at saying unpleasant things; then Sivert, because he never
said a word, but went on selling; at last he stuck to following his former clerk, and trying
to set folk against him wherever he went in. Oh, but Andresen knew his master that was--knew
him of old, and how little he knew of business and unlawful trading.

"Ho, you mean to say English thread's not prohibited?" said Aronsen, looking wise.

"I know it is," answered Andresen. "But I'm not carrying any this way; I can sell that elsewhere.
I haven't a reel in my pack; look for yourself, if you like."

"That's as it may be," says Aronsen. "Anyway, I know what's forbidden, and I've shown you,
so don't try to teach me."

Aronsen stood it for a whole day, then he gave up Andresen, too, and went home. The pedlars
had no one to watch them after that.

And then things began to go swimmingly. It was in the day when womenfolk used to wear loose
plaits in their hair; and Andresen, he was the man to sell loose plaits. Ay, at a pinch he
could sell fair plaits to dark girls, and be sorry he'd nothing lighter; no grey plaits, for
instance, for that was the finest of all. And every evening the three young salesmen met at
an appointed place and went over the day's trade, each borrowing from another anything he'd
sold out of; and Andresen would sit down, often as not, and take out a file and file away the
German trade-mark from a sportsman's whistle, or rub out "Faber" on the pens and pencils. Andresen
was a trump, and always had been.

Sivert, on the other hand, was rather a disappointment. Not that he was any way slack, and
failed to sell his goods--'twas he, indeed, sold most--but he did not get enough for them.
"You don't put in enough patter with it," said Andresen.

No, Sivert was no hand at reeling off a lot of talk; he was a fieldworker, sure of what he
said, and speaking calmly when he spoke at all. What was there to talk about here? Also, Sivert
was anxious to be done with it and get back home, there was work to do in the fields.

"Tis that Jensine's calling him," Fredrik Ström explained. Fredrik, himself, by the way, had
work on his own fields to be done that spring, and little time to waste; but for all that,
he must look in on Aronsen the last day and get up an argument with him. "I'll sell him the
empty sacks," said he.

Andresen and Sivert stayed outside while he went in. They heard grand goings-on inside the
store, both talking at once, and Fredrik setting up a laugh now and again; then Aronsen threw
open the door and showed his visitor out. Oh, but Fredrik didn't come out--no, he took his
time, and talked a lot more. The last thing they heard from outside was Fredrik trying to sell
Aronsen a lot of rocking-horses.

Then the caravan went home again--three young men full of life and health. They marched and
sang, slept a few hours in the open, and went on again. When they got back to Sellanraa on
the Monday, Isak had begun sowing. The weather was right for it; the air moist, with the sun
peeping out now and again, and a mighty rainbow strung right across the heavens.

The caravan broke up--Farvel, Farvel....

       *       *       *       *       *

Isak at his sowing; a stump of a man, a barge of a man to look at, nothing more. Clad in homespun--wool
from his own sheep, boots from the hide of his own cows and calves. Sowing--and he walks religiously
bareheaded to that work; his head is bald just at the very top, but all the rest of him shamefully
hairy; a fan, a wheel of hair and beard, stands out from his face. 'Tis Isak, the Margrave.

'Twas rarely he knew the day of the month--what need had he of that? He had no bills to be
met on a certain date; the marks on his almanac were to show the time when each of the cows
should bear. But he knew St. Olaf's Day in the autumn, that by then his hay must be in, and
he knew Candlemas in spring, and that three weeks after then the bears came out of their winter
quarters; all seed must be in the earth by then. He knew what was needful.

A tiller of the ground, body and soul; a worker on the land without respite. A ghost risen
out of the past to point the future, a man from the earliest days of cultivation, a settler
in the wilds, nine hundred years old, and, withal, a man of the day.

Nay, there was nothing left to him now of the copper mine and its riches--the money had vanished
into air. And who had anything left of all that wealth when the working stopped, and the hills
lay dead and deserted? But the Almenning was there still, and ten new holdings on that land,
beckoning a hundred more.

Nothing growing there? All things growing there; men and beasts and fruit of the soil. Isak
sowing his corn. The evening sunlight falls on the corn that flashes out in an arc from his
hand, and falls like a dropping of gold to the ground. Here comes Sivert to the harrowing;
after that the roller, and then the harrow again. Forest and field look on. All is majesty
and power--a sequence and purpose of things.

Kling ... eling ... say the cow bells far up on the hillside, coming nearer and nearer; the
cattle are coming home for the night. Fifteen head of them, and five-and-forty sheep and goats
besides; threescore in all. There go the women out with their milk-pails, carried on yokes
from the shoulder: Leopoldine, Jensine, and little Rebecca. All three barefooted. The Margravine,
Inger herself, is not with them; she is indoors preparing the meal. Tall and stately, as she
moves about her house, a Vestal tending the fire of a kitchen stove. Inger has made her stormy
voyage, 'tis true, has lived in a city a while, but now she is home; the world is wide, swarming
with tiny specks--Inger has been one of them. All but nothing in all humanity, only one speck.

Then comes the evening.

Knut Hamsun

by

W.W. Worster

Knut Hamsun [Footnote: December, 1920.]

By W.W. Worster

Knut Hamsun is now sixty. For years past he has been regarded as the greatest of living Norwegian
writers, but he is still little known in England. One or two attempts have been made previously
to introduce Hamsun's work into this country, but it was not until this year, with the publication
of Growth of the Soil, that he achieved any real success, or became at all generally known,
among English readers.

Growth of the Soil (Markens Gröde) is Hamsun's latest work. Its reception here was one of immediate
and unstinted appreciation, such as is rarely accorded to a translated work by an alien author
practically unknown even to the critics. A noticeable feature was the frankness with which
experienced bookmen laid aside stock phrases, and dealt with this book as in response to a
strong personal appeal. To the reviewer, aged with much knowledge, hardened by much handling
of mediocrity, it is a relief to meet with a book that can and must be dealt with so.

Those readers are, perhaps, most fortunate who come upon such a book as this without foretaste
or preparation. To the mind under spell of an aesthetic or emotional appeal, the steps that
went to make it, the stages whereby the author passed, are as irrelevant as the logarithms
that went to build an aeroplane. Yet it is only by knowledge of such steps that the achievement
can be fully understood.

Growth of the Soil is very far indeed from Hamsun's earliest beginnings: far even from the
books of his early middle period, which made his name. It is the life story of a man in the
wilds, the genesis and gradual development of a homestead, the unit of humanity, in the unfilled,
uncleared tracts that still remain in the Norwegian Highlands. It is an epic of earth; the
history of a microcosm. Its dominant note is one of patient strength and simplicity; the mainstay
of its working is the tacit, stern, yet loving alliance between Nature and the Man who faces
her himself, trusting to himself and her for the physical means of life, and the spiritual
contentment with life which she must grant if he be worthy. Modern man faces Nature only by
proxy, or as proxy, through others or for others, and the intimacy is lost. In the wilds the
contact is direct and immediate; it is the foothold upon earth, the touch of the soil itself,
that gives strength.

The story is epic in its magnitude, in its calm, steady progress and unhurrying rhythm, in
its vast and intimate humanity. The author looks upon his characters with a great, all-tolerant
sympathy, aloof yet kindly, as a god. A more objective work of fiction it would be hard to
find--certainly in what used to be called "the neurasthenic North."

And this from the pen of the man who wrote Sult, Mysterier, and Pan.

Hamsun's early work was subjective in the extreme; so much so, indeed, as almost to lie outside
the limits of aesthetic composition. As a boy he wrote verse under difficulties--he was born
in Gudbrandsdalen, but came as a child to Bodö in Lofoten, and worked with a shoemaker there
for some years, saving up money for the publication of his juvenile efforts. He had little
education to speak of, and after a period of varying casual occupations, mostly of the humblest
sort, he came to Christiania with the object of studying there, but failed to make his way.
Twice he essayed his fortune in America, but without success. For three years he worked as
a fisherman on the Newfoundland Banks.

His Nordland origin is in itself significant; it means an environment of month-long nights
and concentrated summers, in which all feelings are intensified, and love and dread and gratitude
and longing are nearer and deeper than in milder and more temperate regions, where elemental
opposites are, as it were, reciprocally diluted.

In 1890, at the age of thirty, Hamsun attracted attention by the publication of Sult (Hunger).
Sult is a record of weeks of starvation in a city; the semi-delirious confession of a man whose
physical and mental faculties have slipped beyond control. He speaks and acts irrationally,
and knows it, watches himself at his mental antics and takes himself to task for the same.
And he asks himself: Is it a sign of madness?

It might seem so. The extraordinary associations, the weird fancies and bizarre impulses that
are here laid bare give an air of convincing verisimilitude to the supposed confessions of
a starving journalist. But, as a matter of fact, Hamsun has no need of extraneous influences
to invest his characters with originality. Starving or fed, they can be equally erratic. This
is seen in his next book, Mysterier.

Here we have actions and reactions as fantastic as in Sult, though the hero has here no such
excuse as in the former case. The "mysteries," or mystifications, of Nagel, a stranger who
comes, for no particular reason apparent, to stay in a little Norwegian town, arise entirely
out of Nagel's own personality.

Mysterier is one of the most exasperating books that a publisher's reader, or a conscientious
reviewer, could be given to deal with. An analysis of the principal character is a most baffling
task. One is tempted to call him mad, and have done with it. But, as a matter of fact, he is
uncompromisingly, unrestrainedly human; he goes about constantly saying and doing things that
we, ordinary and respectable people, are trained and accustomed to refrain from saying or doing
at all. He has the self-consciousness of a sensitive child; he is for ever thinking of what
people think of him, and trying to create an impression. Then, with a paradoxical sincerity,
he confesses that the motive of this or that action was simply to create an impression, and
thereby destroys the impression. Sometimes he caps this by wilfully letting it appear that
the double move was carefully designed to produce the reverse impression of the first--until
the person concerned is utterly bewildered, and the reader likewise.

Mysterier appeared in 1893. In the following year Hamsun astonished his critics with two books,
Ny Jord (New Ground) and Redaktör Lynge, both equally unlike his previous work. With these
he passes at a bound from one-man stories, portrait studies of eccentric characters in a remote
or restricted environment, to group subjects, chosen from centres of life and culture in Christiania.
Redaktör Lynge--redaktör, of course, means "editor"--deals largely with political manoeuvres
and intrigues, the bitter controversial politics of Norway prior to the dissolution of the
Union with Sweden. Ny Jord gives an unflattering picture of the academic, literary, and artistic
youth of the capital, idlers for the most part, arrogant, unscrupulous, self-important, and
full of disdain for the mere citizens and merchants whose simple honesty and kindliness are
laughed at or exploited by the newly dominant representatives of culture.

Both these books are technically superior to the first two, inasmuch as they show mastery of
a more difficult form. But their appeal is not so great; there is lacking a something that
might be inspiration, personal sympathy--some indefinable essential that the author himself
has taught us to expect. They are less hamsunsk than most of Hamsun's work. Hamsun is at his
best among the scenes and characters he loves; tenderness and sympathy make up so great a part
of his charm that he is hardly recognizable in surroundings or society uncongenial to himself.

It would almost seem as if he realized something of this. I do not want to love
me or pursuant to a moral duty, not out of consideration to laws enacted by men. I want to love
me for love, as I love her.

"This was impossible. My vanity misled me and that's why I married Beatrice ugly me and her beautiful;
old, and her young, poor, and she with all the instincts and inclinations
to the elegance, luxury and shine in the world.

"What was in me that would make me friendly to your eyes? A noble
heart? Any intelligence high?

What my work is aware of the nobility of my heart? Where there is an evident increase my intelligence?
I claim no reason these tops. I am a conceited fool.

"What man is, to be incapable that is, who does not find reason to
be pleased with himself?

The ugly is graceful, the coward, human and kind, the fool, full of candor and innocence; the effeminate,
worship, the brutal and uncompromising, spirited and loyal, the brash, frank, the low and flatterer,
kind and good. I also cheated me.

"Sometimes I glimpsed my mistake, and I was tormented by the suspicion of my unworthiness.
And it haunted me for the sake of myself, of contempt, for I feel it was worth less. I was tormented
because my eyes disappeared entirely reasonable and well founded
reason that Beatrice loved me.

"But I was blind.

My happiness depended so much love for Beatrice, who, Now for my criticism destroyed any basis
wicked that my love could support, closed I the eyes of my soul to not see that that love was
collapsing, was lost forever when I needed it to be eternal.

"From here my absurd, my unbelievable blindness, when I was usually
so suspicious and distrustful.

»All Madrid and certainly knows what he says.

I would ignore it, if a non-anonymous accusations had come to give birth to my understanding.

"It
was a disgrace. I was passing by a husband suffered and consented. And yet (humbles me my weakness),
I am sorry I have disappointed.

I would be happy to continue in deception and being the scorn of
the people so as not to lose faith in it, so to believe that she still
loves me.

"The telltale letter has made me see what I wanted to see, not realizing it was me who did
not wanted to see.

"Obviously my misfortune.

"I wanted, however, still deny it. I wanted to persuade me that the
letter was a libel. New evidence tell me not to.

"The inextricable
link that ties my existence with that of Beatrice is the religion
is not the laws. They followed the break I saw her guilty. The inextricable
link is of my love, guilt does not extinguish or drown.

»How do I
separate myself from it forever if my heart is with her forever?

"Nothing
I said. I have not given the slightest complaint. How to complain
without killing? How to kill love her so much?

"Any explanation to
her, every word about their lack would seem to me ugly. A dialogue
between both on this infamous case would be monstrous. It would be
better to kill her without speaking of reason I have to kill you.

"I
fled from home if you called me. She believes in that place. At home
I do not know what Had I made. Maybe some unworthy action. Maybe I
would have cried and complained as vile. Perhaps as the executioner
had been mistreated. And with all his chivalrous sacrifice and violent end,
Glahn is at best a quixotic hero. Men, as men, would think him rather a fool, and women, as
women, might flush at the thought of a cavalier so embarrassingly unrestrained. He is not to
be idolized as a cinema star, or the literary gymnastic hero of a perennial Earl's Court Exhibition
set to music on the stage. He could not be truthfully portrayed on a flamboyant wrapper as
at all seductively masculine. In a word, he is neither a man's man nor a woman's man. But he
is a human being, keenly susceptible to influence which most of us have felt, in some degree.

Closely allied to Pan is Victoria, likewise a story of conflict between two lovers. The actual
plot can only be described as hackneyed. Girl and boy, the rich man's daughter and the poor
man's son, playmates in youth, then separated by the barriers of social standing--few but the
most hardened of "best-sellers" catering for semi-detached suburbia would venture nowadays
to handle such a theme. Yet Hamsun dares, and so insistently unlike all else is the impress
of his personality that the mechanical structure of the story is forgotten. It is interspersed
with irrelevant fancies, visions and imaginings, a chain of tied notes heard as an undertone
through the action on the surface. The effect is that of something straining towards an impossible
realization; a beating of wings in the void; a striving for utterance of things beyond speech.

Victoria is the swan-song of Hamsun's subjective period. Already, in the three plays which
appeared during the years immediately following Pan, he faces the merciless law of change;
the unrelenting "forward" which means leaving loved things behind. Kareno, student of life,
begins his career in resolute opposition to the old men, the established authorities who stand
for compromise and resignation. For twenty years he remains obstinately faithful to his creed,
that the old men must step aside or be thrust aside, to make way for the youth that will be
served. "What has age that youth has not? Experience. Experience, in, all its poor and withered
nakedness. And what use is their experience to us, who must make our own in every single happening
of life?" In Aftenröde, the "Sunset" of the trilogy, Kareno himself deserts the cause of youth,
and allies himself to the party in power. And the final scene shows him telling a story to
a child: "There was once a man who never would give way...."

The madness of Sult is excused as being delirium, due to physical suffering. Nagel, in Mysterier,
is shown as a fool, an eccentric intolerable in ordinary society, though he is disconcertingly
human, paradoxically sane. Glahn, in Pan, apologizes for his uncouth straightforwardness by
confessing that he is more at home in the woods, where he can say and do what he pleases without
offence. Johannes, in Victoria, is of humble birth, which counts in extenuation of his unmannerly
frankness in early years. Later he becomes a poet, and as such is exempt in some degree from
the conventional restraint imposed on those who aspire to polite society. All these well-chosen
characters are made to serve the author's purpose as channels for poetic utterance that might
otherwise seem irrelevant. The extent to which this is done may be seen from the way in which
Hamsun lets a character in one book enter upon a theme which later becomes the subject of an
independent work by the author himself. Thus Glahn is haunted by visions of Diderik and Iselin;
Johannes writes fragments supposed to be spoken by one Vendt the Monk. Five years after Victoria,
Hamsun gives us the romantic drama of Munken Vendt, in which Diderik and Iselin appear.

Throughout these early works, Hamsun is striving to find expression for his own sensitive personality;
a form and degree of expression sufficient to relieve his own tension of feeling, without fusing
the medium; adequate to his own needs, yet understandable and tolerable to ordinary human beings;
to the readers of books. The process, in effect, is simply this: Hamsun is a poet, with a poet's
deep and unusual feeling, and a poet's need of utterance. Where had
gone? Paco was the most bizarre and disturbing assumptions. If there sick on the road and will
have been at a station? If, thanks to the cordiality of the party Rosita, the poor Braulio, who
is frail and no fast, there also had to go to shot or saber and you have kindly sent to another
world? It was evident that Braulio had cheated on his wife called him telling him Paco. Had
he deceived also telling I went to the site and going elsewhere or staying in hiding in Madrid?
For what purpose, Braulio, who was truthful, but very reconcentrated or put itself would have
forged such lies?

Puzzling to explain the cause of the delay of Braulio, spent two days Paco fatal. Braulio did not
appear and fears were multiplied Paco. I did not know how determined take. Write to Dona Beatriz
telling the non-appearance of her husband, was infusing the same Although he was well and
perhaps discover a secret Braulio: something that mattered much to
his wife did not know.

Paco waited impatiently, but waited.

The railway station was four leagues of the place.

A buggy brought passengers from the point where the railroad passed.
Paco rode out twice a league of people to meet his friend. This did
not neither the first nor the second.

Shortly after returning home
the second time without bringing to Braulio, Paco received a letter
certified. And yet it is by such potentials that we judge the highest
art; by its power to give us, if only for a moment, something of that which the divinity of
our aspiring minds finds wanting in the confines of reality.

The richness of this quality is one of the most endearing things in Hamsun's characters. Their
sensitiveness is a thing we have been trained, for self-defence, to repress. It is well for
us, no doubt, that this is so. But we are grateful for their showing that such things are,
as we are grateful for Kensington Gardens who cannot live where trees are everywhere. The figures
Hamsun sets before us as confessedly unsuited to the realities of life, his vagabonds, his
failures, his fools, have power at times to make us question whether our world of comfort,
luxury, success, is what we thought; if it were not well lost in exchange for the power to
feel as they.

It has been said that life is a comedy to those who think, a tragedy to those who feel. Humanly
speaking, it is one of the greatest merits of Hamsun's work that he shows otherwise. His attitude
towards life is throughout one of feeling, yet he makes of life no tragedy, but a beautiful story.

"I will be young until I die," says Kareno in Aftenröde. The words are not so much a challenge
to fate as a denial of fact; he is not fighting, only refusing to acknowledge the power that
is already hard upon him.

Kareno is an intellectual character. He is a philosopher, a man whose perceptions and activity
lie predominantly in the sphere of thought, not of feeling. His attempt to carry the fire of
youth beyond the grave of youth ends in disaster; an unnecessary débâcle due to his gratuitously
attempting the impossible.

Hamsun's poet-personality, the spirit we have seen striving for expression through the figures
of Nagel, Glahn, Johannes, and the rest, is a creature of feeling. And here the development
proceeds on altogether different lines. The emotion which fails to find adequate outlet, even
in such works as Sult, Mysterier, Victoria, and Pan, might well seem more of a peril than the
quixotic stubbornness of Kareno's philosophy. Such a flood, in its tempestuous unrest, might
seem to threaten destruction, or at best the vain dispersal of its own power into chaos. But
by some rare guidance it is led, after the storm of Munken Vendt, into channels of beneficent
fertility.

In 1904, after an interval of short stories, letters of travel, and poems, came the story entitled
Svoermere. The word means "Moths." It also stands for something else; something for which we
English, as a sensible people, have no word. Something pleasantly futile, deliciously unprofitable--foolish
lovers, hovering like moths about a lamp. And if they are flowers and add that no connection each other and
I the get together with them haphazardly to form a cluster or bundle. Sea this brief prologue
tape or tie the tie, so that each of flowers will not be by his side.

Not I who should praise them. The kind reader will decide if they're worth anything or worth
nothing. I say just to procure the indulgence of even the most severe, that my purpose in writing
and by gathering the stories is as modest as innocent. I do not propose to teach anything, or moralize,
or prove thesis, or to solve problems, not blame and customs services. The only thing I set out
to write such stories is distracted or have fun in almost forced my retirement old age and
my infirmities condemn me. Svoermere is the slightest of little stories in itself, but
full of delightful vagaries and the most winning humour.

The story of Benoni, with its continuation Rosa, is in like vein; a tenderly humorous portrayal
of love below stairs, the principal characters being chosen from the class who appear as supers
in Pan; subjects or retainers of the all-powerful Trader Mack. It is as if the sub-plots in
one of Shakespeare's plays had been taken out for separate presentment, and the clown promoted
to be hero in a play of his own. The cast is increased, the milieu lightly drawn in Pan is
now shown more comprehensively and in detail, making us gradually acquainted with a whole little
community, a village world, knowing little of any world beyond, and forming a microcosm in itself.

Hamsun has returned, as it were, to the scene of his passionate youth, but in altered guise.
He plays no part himself now, but is an onlooker, a stander-by, chronicling, as from a cloistered
aloofness, yet with kindly wisdom always, the little things that matter in the lives of those
around him. Wisdom and kindliness, sympathy and humour and understanding, these are the dominant
notes of the new phase. Svoermere ends happily--for it is a story of other people's lives.
So also with Benoni and Rosa at the last. Those who want to learn something, have plenty of books to go. To find
religion read the names of Christ, to know moral, read the Guide sinners and to know philosophy, which
is publishing the Father Urraburu in many and very thick volumes.

Meantime, the effect upon himself is seen--and avowed. Between Svoermere and Benoni comes the
frankly first-personal narrative of a vagabond who describes himself, upon interrogation, as
"Knut Pedersen"--which is two-thirds of Knut Pedersen Hamsund--and hailing from Nordland--which
embraces Lofoten.

It does not need any showing of paper, however, to establish the identity of Knut Pedersen,
vagabond, with the author of Pan. The opening words of the book ("Under Höststjaernen") are enough.

This is the Hamsun of Pan. But Hamsun now is a greater soul than in the days when Glahn, the
solitary dweller in the woods, picked up a broken twig from the ground and held it lovingly,
because it looked poor and forsaken; or thanked the hillock of stone outside his hut because
it stood there faithfully, as a friend that waited his return. He is stronger now, but no less
delicate; he loves not Nature less, but the world more. He has learned to love his fellow-men.
Knut Pedersen, vagabond, wanders about the country with his tramp-companions, Grindhusen, the
painter who can ditch and delve at a pinch, or Falkenberg, farm-labourer in harvest-time, and
piano-tuner where pianos are. Here is brave comradeship, the sharing of adventures, the ready
wit of jovial vagrants. The book is a harmless picaresque, a geste of innocent rogue-errantry;
its place is with Lavengro and The Cloister and the Hearth, in that ancient, endless order
of tales which link up age with age and land with land in the unaltering, unfrontiered fellowship
of the road that kept the spirit of poetry alive through the Dark Ages.

The vagabond from Nordland has his own adventures, his bonnes fortunes. The muse has
inspired me (assuming also that there has been muse) has not been sad or tragic, but joyful and
happy, as suited to console of my real punishment and not to aggravate weight with other penalties
imaginary. Moreover, I believe and have always believed that all production artistic or literary means
good humor and not despondency and distress. Even when a poet or a novelist by author events
takes more pitiful, it is important that the shame and Despite have dissipated almost completely,
so that the matter was in the subject and that plagued the subject, get out of it, and he calmly
contemplate and be the object or the first material with which he composes or constructs his
work, carving and polishing. The discords of tortured loveliness are
now resolved into an ultimate harmony of comely resignation and rich content. "A Wanderer may
come to fifty years; he plays more softly then. Plays with muted strings." This is the keynote
of the book. The Wanderer is no longer young; it is for youth to make the stories old men tell.
Tragedy is reserved for those of high estate; a wanderer in corduroy, "such as labourers wear
here in the south," can tell the story of his chatelaine and her lovers with the self-repression
of a humbler Henry Esmond, winning nothing for himself even at the last, yet feeling he is
still in Nature's debt.

Hamsun's next work is Den Siste Gloede (literally "The Last Joy"). The title as it stands is
expressive. The substantive is "joy"--but it is so qualified by the preceding "last," a word
of overwhelming influence in any combination, that the total effect is one of sadness. And
the book itself is a masterly presentment of gloom. Masterly--or most natural: it is often
hard to say how much of Hamsun's effect is due to superlative technique and how much to the
inspired disregard of all technique. Den Siste Gloede is a diary of wearisome days, spent for
the most part among unattractive, insignificant people at a holiday resort; the only "action"
in it is an altogether pitiful love affair, in which the narrator is involved to the slightest
possible degree. The writer is throughout despondent; he feels himself out of the race; his
day is past. Solitude and quiet, Nature, and his own foolish feelings--these are the "last
joys" left him now.

The book might have seemed a fitting, if pathetic, ending to the literary career of the author
of Pan. Certainly it holds out no promise of further energy or interest in life or work. The
closing words amount to a personal farewell.

Then, without warning, Hamsun enters upon a new phase of power. Börn av Tilden (Children of
the Age) is an objective study, its main theme being the "marriage" conflict touched upon in
the Wanderer stories, and here developed in a different setting and with fuller individuality.
Hamsun has here moved up a step in the social scale, from villagers of the Benoni type to the
land-owning class. There is the same conflict of temperaments that we have seen before, but
less violent now; the poet's late-won calm of mind, and the level of culture from which his
characters now are drawn--perhaps by instinctive selection--make for restraint. 

Hallab our youth at that point and that time when men fall in love with a broom. The age of love
for him had been delayed a bit. This usually happens in all in those who tyrannize muscle nerves.
So Miss Belinchón, although nothing linda, suddenly awakened in him a certain sympathy that is
easy to transmute into a passion. And result of that brief interview, Gonzalo happened since then
occasionally ahead without the house of lords Belinchón looking from the corner of eye the balconies,
cared more for the dressing of the suit and the person, went to Mass on Sundays ten San Andres,
where Dona Paula and her children heard.
 There is no greater human character--reverently said--in the Bible itself.

       *       *       *       *       *

These, then, are the steps of Hamsun's progress as an author, from the passionate chaos of
Sult to the Miltonic, monumental calm of Growth of the Soil. The stages in themselves are full
of beauty; the wistfulness of Pan and Victoria, the kindly humour of Svoermere and Benoni,
the autumn-tinted resignation of the Wanderer with the Mute--they follow as the seasons do,
each with a charm of its own, yet all deriving from one source. His muse at first is Iselin,
the embodiment of adolescent longing, the dream of those "whom delight flies because they give
her chase." The hopelessness of his own pursuit fills him with pity for mortals under the same
spell, and he steps aside to be a brave, encouraging chorus, or a kindly chronicler of others'
lives. And his reward is the love of a greater divinity, the goddess of field and homestead.
No will-o'-the-wisp, but a presence of wisdom and calm.

THE END

