 But even in his sleep had to say it always: "And tomorrow I have an uncle .
Go "And Wiseli did not see how quiet the bright evening light in the room was beautiful and a Days
proclaimed.

Wiseli woke up when someone opens the Stubentuer. It was Andrew the carpenter. Now He had to
sit on his chair and take a breath of emotion, not from exhaustion. Then he exclaimed with
a triumphant voice: "It is true Wiseli, it is all really true, the
Men have all said yes.

You belong to me, I am your father, tell me once, "Father!"

Wiseli had become quite white. Now I want to start over. You see, Wiseli, Now I have just signed
it in the Registry.

You're my child and I am your father, and you stay here with me forever and never go back to
uncle. Here are you at home, here with me. "

Now Wiseli had understood everything. And the mother has it already knew and certainly has
the All year asked the good Lord that I could come on the road.

It has been known as well as I would have with you, like nowhere else in the whole of the
world. That you think now, Father, that everything is gone, you know, since you know that
the mother shown me the way to the cloves have?

"

Behind him crashed out the puss, ran like going to his friend and said, meaning full wave against
the door down, "Now, Andres, you'll soon see what the Hard recovery is coming! "

And since even the baker boy came in with such a huge board on the head, that he in the door got
stuck and could not therefore continue. But from behind came a hefty Hand picked and pushed and
propped the tottering building until it is happy in the room arrived
and set on the table was that covered it entirely.

For Otto and Pussy Sparbuechsen were sacrificed and the recovery firming cream pie can be
the biggest of all, which a man could make. As he had now become too small as a round cake would
be so he was made square, so that it fills the oven from front to back and now the whole Tables
covered.

On the floor now put the Trine, which came in useful after the baker boy was her big basket.
There were a nice roast in it plus wine, for the Colonel's Wife had
said, today I ate the Andres certainly not have any bites. And perhaps
the Wiseli also not the way it was. Now Wiseli also noted that it
was hungry as it saw all of the delightful things going on.

Now the
whole party sat down at the table, and you could not foresee who all
had the happiest face. had in October 1448) the rule of the Ottomans on the Danube based permanently at the same
time and the southern part of the Greek peninsula had been conquered, could the resurgent Osman Murad's
successor force under Muhammad II (1451-81) are against Constantinople, the 29th after a brave
defense May 1453 fell into the hands of the Turks and the capital their empire was collected.

Highest
power and prosperity of the kingdom.

Mohammed arranged on the affairs of numerous subjugated Christians (Rajah) and their clergy,
the same has not been forcibly converted to Islam, but rather in the free exercise of religion
were kept, but the arbitrary violence of the Turks revealed that as the ruling tribe of warriors with
the tools of the conquered countries ruthlessly to their enrichment and strengthening of its military force
and used by the incessant Expansion of their power to subject area itself and to Islam, the
world sought. 1456 was the Peloponnese, 1460 the Empire of Trebizond, 1470 conquered Albania,
1475 the Tatar Khan of Crimea forced into submission, was stolen in 1478 the people of Moldova
and Poland the sovereignty of Turkey made. Muhammad's successor Bajesid II (1481-1512), under
the in the massive display of power of the Ottoman State entered a standstill, since its military operations
against the West had had little success, despite the already in the Ottoman dynasty usual custom,
the absolute rule to be secured by cruel parricide, with ongoing to fight insurgency and was after
he had executed a brother (Djem) and two sons To leave of his youngest son, Selim I (1512-20), was
overthrown and poisoned. Selim defeated In 1514 the Shah of Persia, which he by the murder of
40,000 living on Turkish soil Shiites had provoked the war in Tschaldyran, conquered Armenia and
the West from Azerbaijan, then after defeating the Mamelukes in 1517 Syria, Palestine and Egypt and was
the sacred Cities of Mecca and Medina acknowledged as a patron, which he assumed the title of caliph.
Under his successor, Suleiman (Suleiman) II (1520-66) reached the Turkish Machtentwickelung
its peak: he conquered Belgrade in 1521, 1522, sales of St. John from the island of Rhodes, destroyed
29th Aug. 1526, the Hungarian army under King Ludwig II of Mohács penetrated, 1529 to Vienna
and united against Hungary after it since 1533 in the Transylvanian prince Johann Zápolya a
Turkish vassal kingdom was 1547 with half of his kingdom. The Venetians in 1540 had their islands
in the Aegean Sea and its last possessions in the Peloponnese . Cede In the east, he conquered
by a victorious war with Persia (1533-1536) Georgia and Mesopotamia. Its fleet dominated the Mediterranean
to Gibraltar and distressed by raids in the Indian Ocean, the Portuguese colonies. The Barbary
States of North Africa acknowledged his supremacy. He died in 1566 before Szigeth camp in
Hungary. With it closed the brilliant series of excellent warlords, who characterized the Ottoman
dynasty and enabled the great expansion of the Turkish power. The Turkish political system
was not of peace but of war as the normal state, to find strength in this unfold, was that a
ruthlessly selfish, of all bands of law and despotism of custom exempt needed, who was but
gradually deadening. The cruel destruction all excellent, but that dangerous members of the dynasty,
the Serail education and strict seclusion of the young prince from public life destroyed the
power of the Dynasty. The brave warrior people in the effeminate pleasures of peace, the soldiers of
the Janissaries became more rampant.

Decline of the empire.

Selim II (1566-74) was a weak prince and rule left his Grand Vizier
Sokolli.

This Although the Venetians took from Cyprus, Zante and Cephalonia, however, the Turkish fleet
7. Defeated at Lepanto in October 1571 by the Christians. Murad III. (1574-95), which is the
throne secured by the murder of five brothers, Mohammed and III. (1595-1603), strangled the 19
brothers , had led unsuccessful wars against Austria and Persia, the latter lost Tebriz and Baghdad
and France had to address to the mediation of peace with Austria. Ahmed I (1603-17) closed 1612
with the Persians an unfavorable peace. His brother, Mustafa I (1617-18) was after three months'
rule by a Fatwa of Mufti dismissed as silly, Achmed Son Osman II (1618-22), when, after an unsuccessful
campaign against the Polish Cossacks the Janissaries, which he attached to the debt wanted to
destroy, was murdered by them and, after Mustafa was again recognized as Sultan, but 1623 for
the second time was deposed, Osman younger brother, Murad IV (1623-40), raised to the throne. This
conquered in the war against Persia (1635-38) Yerevan, Tebriz and chastised Baghdad, the Cossacks,
and laid the Venetians a negative peace, and he placed the discipline restored and filled by
strict economy of the state treasury. His brother and successor, Ibrahim (1640-48), a cowardly Sensualist,
under whose great and bloody Serail economy, the advantages gained by Murad again lost, was
deposed in 1648 by the Janissaries and strangled and his seven-year-old Son, Mohammed IV (1648-87)
on the throne.

By the struggle over the guardianship was brought near the realm of
the resolution: disruption of Finance, mutiny of the Janissaries,
insurrections of the provincial governor, defeats against the Venetians
(1656 in the Dardanelles) and Poland broke in upon the empire, to
Mohammed Köprili, 1656 appointed Grand Vizier, by the bloody Strict
discipline in the produced army, the obedience of the provinces and
the order of finance and the Venetians struck back.

Achmed Köprili conquered in the war against Austria and Gran Neuhäusel and claimed although
beaten 1 Aug. 1664 at St. Gotthardt, these conquests in the peace of Vasvár submitted, 1669
Crete, forcing Poland in the Peace of 1672 to assign Budziak Podolia and the Ukraine, Turkish
protectorate which was, of course, after Ahmed's death (1676) with a new war with Poland and
a war with Russia, together with Azov in 1681 again was lost. The new war of conquest, Achmed
the successor Kara Mustafa took in 1683 against Austria was, after the unsuccessful

927

Turkish Empire (history. 17th-19th centuries).

Siege of Vienna (July 24 to Sept. 12, 1683) so unhappy that the whole
of central Hungary with oven lost and the Imperials after the victory
at Mohács (12 Aug 1687) invaded Serbia, while the Venetians conquered
the Peloponnese and Cephalonia again.

(1695-1703) the Peace of Karlowitz (January 1699) Hungary and Transylvania
to Austria, Azov to Russia Podolia and the Ukraine to Poland, the
Peloponnese to cede Venice.

Mustafa was in 1703 by the Janissaries deposed and his brother Ahmed III. (1703-30) was made
Sultan. Same took after the battle of Poltava (1709), the Swedish King Karl XII volatile. hospitality,
also because of him declared war on Russia, but his grand vizier in 1711 was on the Prut enclosed
Tsar Peter the Great. free to return Asows. 1715 the Peloponnesus to the Venetians was again rescued,
but lost the Turks for a new unfortunate war against Austria the Peace of Passarowitz (21 July
1718) a part of Serbia with Belgrade. 1730 was Achmed fell because of an unfortunate war with
Persia.

Under Mahmud I (1730-54) became Turkey in 1737 by Austrians and Russians attacked again. This
fell in the Crimea and Azov captured again, but the Austrians fought so unhappy that the Turks
in the Treaty of Belgrade (September 1, 1739) the area south of the Sava and Danube lost to Russia
and its border fortifications with Azov got back again.

As Mahmoud followed Osman III. (1754-57), his cousin Mustafa III to this. (1757-74), the 1768 with
Russia because of its threatening attitude against Poland began a war, but the most unfortunate was for
him. The Russians occupied Moldavia and Wallachia, a Russian fleet appeared in the Aegean Sea
and destroyed the Turkish 5th July 1770 at Tscheschme, 1771 was the Crimea wrested from the
Turks, and in 1773 the Russians invaded, even in Bulgaria, so that Mustafa Successor Abdul Hamid
I (1774-89) in the Peace of Kütschük Kainardji (21 July 1774) the Crimea give up, hand over
all the places on the north coast of the Black Sea, the Russians free Navigation in the Black
and Aegean Sea and grant commitments for Moldavia and Wallachia had to assume that established
a property right in Russia. As a result of insatiable lust for conquest Catherine II of Russia,
the Crimea in 1783 and the Cuban Missile countries united with their empire and 1786 by Emperor
Joseph II concluded an alliance in 1788 broke new war against Russia and Austria, where the
Turks held their courageous and brave, although victorious Suvorov Penetration could not inhibit, but
taught the Austrians repeated losses. In Prussian mediation concluded Selim III. (1789-1807) with Austria
the Peace of Sistova (April 4, 1791), with the Russia of Jassy (January 9, 1792) and received
by the two powers Conquests, except the area right of the Dniester back.

Attempts at reform.

Inside the repeated protracted wars the decline had accelerated: the Finance were completely destroyed,
the reputation of the government weakened, loosened the bonds of
obedience and shattered the unity of the kingdom by independence movements
of several Pasha.

Selim's reform efforts were ineffective against these difficulties.

Then there were again Foreign entanglements: 1798 invasion of Bonaparte in Egypt, in 1806 for
breach of Peace of Jassy the Russian declaration of war. When Selim the establishment of a new,
on the European model excavated and organized army tried, which the Janissaries should be
replaced, he was 29th May 1807 on the operation of the people through popular Janissaries Ulemas
the deposed Abdul Hamid's son and appointed Sultan Mustafa IV, and when the Seraskier Bairaktar
Mustafa, Pasha of Rustschuk, in July 1808 raised for Selim, was this murdered in prison. Bairaktar
now moved to Constantinople, stormed the seraglio, and sat Mustafa's body to his younger brother,
Mahmud II (July 28, 1808), on the throne, the one new revolt of the Janissaries incited by fanatical
people in November 1808 bloody reflected and Mustafa IV was executed, his Grand Vizier Bairaktar,
by a mob in a tower included, blew himself up with it in the air.

Mahmud II (1808-39), who was now the only surviving descendant of the Osman Turks rightful ruler
was acknowledged was especially the restoration of the authority the gateway to the many efforts
of the Pasha's independence and the Christian Strains to the task. The threatening attitude towards
Russia, Napoleon persuaded that, despite its brilliant victory in
the Peace of Bucharest (May 28, 1812) most of his conquests surrendered.

Although it was Mahmud, more insubordinate Pasha, Ali Pasha in particular Janina (1822), to
be Mr. and bloody extermination of every innovation recalcitrant Janitscharenkorps (June 1826), such
as by establishing a regular, on the European model organized military system restore his power.
However, it does not succeed him, the Rise of the Serbs (since 1804) and the Greeks (since
1821) to suppress, the cruelty Mahmud against the Greeks, the insulated gate completely against
the European powers, and so was the Russian Empire until the Treaty of defenseless Akjerman
(Oct. 6th 1826) extort, which the constitutional relations of Serbia and the Danube principalities in
the sense of Russia regulated, and after the Turkish-Egyptian fleet 20th October 1827 in time
of peace at Navarino destroyed by the combined squadrons of Russia, Britain and France were,
in April 1828 to open war begin by indenting his armies in Bulgaria and Armenia was. In 1828
the Russians conquered merely Varna, Kars and Achalzych, 1829 but also Erzurum, and Diebitsch
penetrated even prior to Adrianople, where 14th Sept. under Prussian mediation a peace came about,
in which Turkey ceded the Danube mouths and Achalzych to Russia, the Privileges of the Danubian
principalities of Serbia and of the enlarged and confirmed the independence Greece recognized.

Now Mahmoud took his efforts to restore the unity of the empire, on again, But it came into conflict
with the Pasha of Egypt, Mehemet Ali, whom he for his the Greek insurrection's assistance had
to make major concessions. Mehemet Adoptive son Ibrahim Pasha was 1831 in Syria, defeated the

928

Turkish Empire (history 1832-1856).

Turks conquered three times in 1832 and entered 1833 in Akka Asia Minor to Kutahia. The gate called
in to help her dismay Russia, which is also 15,000 men to sea on
the Bosphorus threw together with other troops crossed the Danube,
while France and England its fleet to go before the Dardanelles were
at anchor.

Now, Mehemet Ali understood the Peace of Kutahia (4 May 1833), in
which the Sultan in the form of a big beautiful Amnestiefermans the
Viceroy of Egypt as Stadtholder recognized him for life and the management
Syria and Crete, Ibrahim was sent to Adana and Tarsus.

In gratitude for the Russian Help Mahmud concluded with Russia the
Treaty of Hunkiar Skelessi (July 8, 1833), in which He pledged to
close all the enemies of Russia, the Dardanelles and no warship to
allow entry into the Black Sea.

To start the war with Egypt again can be tried, the Sultan, the military aid of the gate by
tight central station increase, the Bosnians, Albanians, and various tribes of Asia Minor, the
Remains of their self-made, subject to upper Mesopotamia and Kurdistan. As 1839 various rebellions
against Egyptian rule in Syria broke out, said In May the Viceroy Mahmud for war. But he died
first July, before he received news of the complete defeat of his army at Nisib (June 24) and this was
followed by the decrease in the fleet, which of the Kapudan Pasha Achmed 14th July in Alexandria
to Mehemet Ali handed. The situation Turkey, the Abdul Medjid (1839-61), Mahmud's 16 year
old son, the government took, was therefore a highly critical, and it was only saved by the
intervention of the four Powers, England, Russia, Austria and Prussia, joined them to France's ambitious
to thwart plans, 15 July 1840 the Quadruple Alliance, which by Austria-English Fleet Mehemet
Ali forced the evacuation of Syria, remained the same, only the Erbstatthalterschaft of Egypt. Under the
Advisory Council adopted Reschid Pasha Abd ud Medjid the big beautiful edict of 3 Nov. 1839,
which is under the name of Gülhane Hattischeriff become famous. This Document whose importance
in the determination culminated that the "subjects of all nationalities and religion, including
Christians and Jews, the same security in respect to their assets, should have their honor
and their lives, was a vast improvement in the social Civilization had manifold and by introducing
reforms to administrative and commercial Use for the state economy is very important. Moreover,
should the hat only the principles , From which up to be adopted special laws had to erfließen;
these laws, by the Turks Tanzimatihairijeh ("healing organization") called, should the entire
Gates area are valid, and Mehemet Ali had to be comfortable with their adoption. 1841 in London
between the major powers and the gate of the so-called. Dardanellenvertrag completed, by which the latter
undertook to Dardanellenstraße and to keep the Bosphorus to foreign warships closed in times
of peace.

The Crimean War and its consequences.

The year 1848 went with his ideas of freedom its mark on the real Turkey, whereas formed in the
Danubian principalities, when Russia, under the name of a protecting power any more free Development
held down a despot, a Reform Party, whose leaders like to use the gate a liberal representative government
had introduced. To the Russians an excuse to to give occupation of the Danube principalities,
was the gate price, the liberals, yet was the occupation. The hopes that one in Constantinople
for a restoration of the had earlier set rule on the Danube to the Hungarian insurrection
of 1849, were by the capitulation of Vilagos (August 13, 1849) destroyed. But the door had
at least the courage, supported by a British fleet appearing before the Dardanelles, the delivery
the Hungarian refugees refused. Russia and Austria drew back then,
were But soon after the gates feel their wrath.

When the French Republic in the autumn 1850 rose in Constantinople,
a complaint because of the holy places in Palestine and the Not quite
the same gate refused, but at least the shared use of a church door
conceded to the Catholics in Bethlehem, Emperor Nicholas immediately
declared that as a result of the religious Sense of Orthodox Russians
would hurt the extreme, and demanded guarantees for the Greek-Catholic
Church in Turkey, which of Russia a complete property right subjects
the gate had granted.

At the same time demanded the immediate withdrawal of Austria just time winner in the insurgent
Montenegro invading Turkish troops from the Austrian border region and resolving a number of commercial
claims Austrian Subjects. When the extraordinary Austrian Minister, Count Leiningen 14th February
1853 the unconditional fulfillment of these demands, reached also sent Emperor Nicholas Prince
Menshikov to Constantinople, to form the most rugged in the conclusion of a formal contract demand
on the Orthodox Church to be granted privileges. The rejection of this Exposure had a new
Russian-Turkish War resulted (1853-56, see Crimean War). The Turkish army proved itself capable
and efficient than previously believed, and defended the Danube forts and Armenia with great tenacity,
and the first with such success that the Russians had to go back over the Danube. By contrast, at the
beginning of the war the fleet destroyed at Sinope, Turkey, and also fought their forces since
the allied Army of the Western powers had appeared on the battlefield, independently only
in Armenia; in the Crimea, they played only the role of auxiliaries.

For the internal affairs of Turkey, the Crimean War was particularly the effect that the Western powers,
as a sort of reward and justification for that strong support, the introduction of more thorough
Reforms in the Ottoman Empire demanded. These efforts culminated in a magnificent new large Edict, which,
from a diplomatic Commission together with the Turkish Minister of Foreign Affairs worked under
the name Hatti Humayum 8th
 "I think so," she
said, "that you have your own little head, the DA's me told minutely as you have been sitting
together in the box, but you were so easily but not come away from me! "

The Lisei looked down a little embarrassed in front of him, but then she asked hastily after their Father.
After I had given her notice, I asked myself a few Bettstuecke of the Champion, took from mine
yet add something and carried it over himself in the cell the prisoner, which I had just received
from the inspector's permission .-- so we could, as now Night came, hope that in the warm bed
and on the best pillow, which are in the world There, will also revive
our old friend in his desolate chamber, a gentle sleep.

On other mornings, as I was to go to the Lord Kriminalkommissarius on the road came, came from
over there, the inspector in his slippers morning striding towards me. "You have been right, Paulsen,
"he said in his glass voice" for this time it's not Rascal was; the
right person they have just introduced, your age is still released
today to be.

"

And sure enough, after several hours, opened the door of the jail, and the old Tendler hinuebergewiesen
was the commanding voice of the inspector to us. Because the lunch was just applied, so the champion
is not resting until he took his place at the table had, but he hardly touched the good food,
and how they might also seek him, he was taciturn and withdrawn sitting next to his daughter,
only sometimes I noticed how he took their hand and stroked it tenderly.

As I heard out of the gate produces a Gloeckchen jingle, and I knew
it very well, but there were ringing me far away from my childhood.

"Lisei!" I said softly.

"Yes, Paul, I hear it well."

And soon we were both out there on your doorstep. Behold, it came down the street, the Little
cart with the two large boxes, as I had at home I watch many times.

A Peasant boy walked near her with reins and whip in hand, but rang
the bell Now the neck of a small mold.

"Where the brewing stones go?" I asked Lisei.

"The brewing stones," she replied, "that one day we fell in front of the car, the father has
the vet immediately brought from the village, but it can never live. "

At these words the tears gushed from his eyes.

"What ails you, Lisei?" I asked, "but now it's all good again!"

She shook her head. "My Vaterl pleases me nit He is so quiet, and the shame he verwind't it nit
"-.. And Lisei had their eyes well seen as a loyal daughter, the two barely housed in a small
inn and the old man had been his plans to proceed designed - for here he did not now stand in front
of people - compelled him to as a fever, in stay bed. Soon we had
to pick a doctor, and it developed a long illness.

Concerned that they could get in trouble because I gave my money to Lisei Help there to, but
she said: "I take it from you so happy, but only nit careful, we are so very nit barren. "Since
I had for nothing else to do than go to the vigil with her, or, as
if the patient got better after work to chat for an hour at his bedside.

So

the time was herangenaht my departure, and I was the heart and more difficult. I did almost painful
to watch the Lisei, because soon it went so well with his father again in the wide world. If
they had only had a home! But where to find them, if I wanted to
send greetings and message to them!

I thought of the twelve years since our first farewell, - should
again take such a long time or even at the end of a lifetime?

"And I cited gruess your father's house, when you come home!" Lisei said, because it on the last
night I had accompanied to the front door.

"I see's with my 'eyes, the Baenkerl front of the door, Lind in the
Gart'l ah, i never forget it, so I'm loving nit's back g'funden in
the world!

"

When she said that, it was as light from dark depths to my home to me, and I saw the affectionate
eyes of my mother, the honest face of my father's firm. "Oh, Lisei" I said, "where is now my
father's house! It's all dull and empty."

Lisei did not answer, they just gave me his hand and looked at me
with her good eye.

Because I felt as I heard the voice of my mother: "Hold this hand
and transport with her back, you have your home again "- and I held
his hand and said," Kehr you back with me, Lisei, and let us try together,
a new life in the empty house bring to a have been as good as it have
led those who once loved you, too!

"

"Paul," she cried, "what do you mean is I understand Tues nite."

But her hand trembled violently in mine, and I only asked: "Oh, Lisei
me, understand"

She was silent a moment. "Paul," she said then, "i can go from nit mei'm Vaterl."

"The must indeed with us, Lisei! In the back house, the two little rooms, which are now empty
because he can live and economies, and the old Henry has his little room close by, "Lisei. nodded.
"But Paul, we end up moving folks. What to say they are with you at home?"

"They will talk conversant, Lisei!"

"And you're nit fear from it?"

I just laughed it.

"Well," said Lisei, and like a bell struck sound in her voice, "if you have them - i 've already
Kuraschi! "

"But you do's because too much?"

"Yes, Paul, if i 's like nit ity" - and she shook her brown head against me -, "Gel, as perpetrators i
's never!"

"And, my boy," broke off here, the narrator, "like a case of such a pair of words black Maedchenaugen
See that thou shalt learn now, when you first got in years more art! "

"Yes, yes," I thought, "since such a pair of eyes can burn out a lake!"

"And not true," Paulsen began again, "now you know well nigh who the Lisei."

"This is Paulsen's wife!" I replied. "As if I did not long ago would have noticed! You says yes
still "nit" and also has the black eyes beneath the feingepinselten
eyebrows.

"

My friend laughed, while I secretly undertook the woman Paulsen, when we go home zurueckkaemen,
but for once it to see if still in the puppet-Lisei her was seen .-- "But," I asked, "where
is the old man gone to Tendler?

"My dear child," replied my friend, "where we all finally come. Over There the green churchyard
he rests next to our old Henry, but it is still one more to his Grave
to come into it, the other little friend from my childhood.

I will be well with thee tell, only let us go a little Hintenaus, my wife could once after
nigh want to see us, and they should not hear the story yet again. "

Paulsen got up and we went out on the park, which also behind the gardens the city along leads.
Few people came to meet us, for it was already at the vespers.

"You see" - Paulsen began his story again - "the old Tendler was present with our Verspruch very
well pleased, he thought of my parents, whom he had once known, and he also took me to trust. Besides,
he was tired of walking, so, since it is in danger had brought to be confused with the most
confused vagabond, was in him the desire after a fixed up home grown more and more. My good
champion but was not so agree, she was afraid, with all good will but let the child of itinerant
Puppeteer .-- not give the right woman for a sedentary craftsman Well, they has long since been converted
- and so was I after only eight days here again from the mountains to the North Sea coast, in our
old home town. I was with the Heinrich Shops vigorously in hand and taught at the same time,
the two vacant rooms in the back of home for the Father Joseph .-- a fortnight on - it just
painted the scents of the first Fruehlingsblumen about the gardens - came as it heraufgebimmelt
the street. "Master, Master!" cried the old Henry, "they come, they come!" And as was already the
little cart with the two tall boxes in front of our door. The Lisei was there, his father Joseph
was there, both with merry eyes and red Cheeks, and the whole puppet moved with them, for the
express condition was it is that this should accompany the father Joseph to his old age. The
small wagon on the other hand was sold in the next few days already.

Then we stopped the wedding, all in silence, for we had no further blood friends at the site, only
the Harbour Master, my old school friend, was present as a witness
to.

Lisei was how their parents, Catholic, but that the railroad could be an obstacle for our marriage;
We never occurred. In the early years she traveled well for Easter Confession In our neighboring
city, where, as you know, a Catholic church is, after it has their worries, only her husband
confessed.

On the wedding morning, Father Joseph laid before me with two bags on the table, one major old
resin-thirds, a small fully Kremnitzer ducats.

"You have nit then asks Paul!" he said. "But it is totally poor but my Lisei you nit spent. Take it!
i need allfurt's more nit. "That was the saving pennies, of which my father once said, and he
now came to his son the re-launch his business in handy Time.

Of course it had Liseis father gave his entire fortune and even the For children entrusted to
its care, but he was not idle, he sought his carving knife out again and did the work at the
workshop to make useful.

The puppet theater in addition to the apparatus were in a crate on the floor of the house next door accommodated.
Only on Sunday afternoons he brought now one and then another in
his room down, revised the wires and joints and cleaned or repaired
this and that the same.

The old Henry stood with his short pipe next to him and let the Tell fortunes of the dolls,
of which nearly had each its own story, so how it now came out, the so effectively carved Kasper
once had for his young maker even the matchmakers to Liseis mother made. Sometimes were used to better
illustrate one or the other scene, probably the wires set in motion, and I have Lisei often stood
outside the windows, which have made of green vine leaves it feel
happy to the court looked outside, but inside the old children were
usually so engrossed in their game, that they are noticeable only
by our applause of the spectators was the presence .-- As weiterrueckte
the year, Father Joseph found other employment, he took the garden
under his care, he planted and harvested, and on Sunday he walked,
dressed neatly, between the discounts, up and down, cleaned the Rosenbueschen
or band of fine cloves and wallflowers even carved chopsticks.

We lived united and happy, and my business rose more and more. About my marriage had our good city
for a few weeks, come vividly, but since almost all over the folly of my actions were agreed and the
talks as the thriving food the contradiction was withheld, it was soon starving yourself.

When it was winter again, Father Joseph brought on Sundays again the puppets out of her crate
down, and I'm no different than that in such a quiet exchange the employment it would go well
in future, the years. Then he went one morning with even serious face to me in the living room
where I was just alone with my breakfast sat. "Son," he said after he laid down as a couple of
times by hand through his white hair skewers had gone, "but I can nit's probably a fair length,
I all because so my bread on your table to eat.

"

I did not know where this should also, but I asked him how he came to such thoughts; yes it creates in the
workshop, and if my business now yield a bigger profit, It said that much of the interest of his
own fortune, which he at our wedding morning have put in my hand.

He shook his head. The rich not everything, but just that little fortune he had to Part once
played in our city, the theater is still there, and I have the pieces it all still in my head.

Then
I noticed's because well, the old puppet master left him no peace, and his friend, the good
Heinrich enough for him not as an audience, he had once again publicly before the assembled People
drove into its pieces.

I tried to dissuade him, but he always came back on again. I spoke with Lisei, and in the end
we could not help him to yield. Most of all certainly had the old Man seen when Lisei still our
marriage, the role of women speaking in his plays would have, but we had agreed not to understand
its meaning aiming references; for the wife of a citizen and master craftsman would be befitting
for the not yet.

Luckily - or, as you will, to the accident - was now a very reputable woman in the city that
had once served in a theater troupe as a prompter and therefore not in such matters was inexperienced.
This - Kroepel-Lies they called the people because of their cross lameness - went immediately to
our offer, and soon developed in the evening and little room on Sunday afternoons, the liveliest
activity in Joseph's father. While carpentered before a window of the old Henry the Gerueststuecken
the theater was, before the other between freshly painted scenes
that hung from the ceiling, the old puppeteer and drill with Kroepel-Lies
a scene after another.

You is a spiced three women, he always assured by such sample, not even the Lisei got it got
it so quickly, would only nit with the singing it does so beautiful, they grunt with her voice
always in the depth, which for this lovely Susan, to sing the song
did, was not just harmony.

Finally the day of the performance was fixed. Every effort should reputable as possible before
to go, not to the shooting, but in the council chamber, where the first form Michaelis talked
to her Redeuebungen, should now be the scene, and when on Saturday afternoons our good citizens
of their fresh Wochenblaettchen unfolded jumped them in broad Letters the advertisement in the
eyes:

"Tomorrow, Sunday night on the town hall clock sieben Puppet Theater of the Joseph Mechanicus
Tendler hieselbst. The beautiful Susanna, play with songs in four lifts. "

It was at that time in our city is no longer the innocent bystanders
from my youth Childhood and the times of the Cossack winter were in
between, and in particular was among the Craft apprentices a gross
licentiousness torn, and the former lover in the Dignitaries but had
their minds on other things now.

Nevertheless, perhaps everything would be gone well, had not only the black Schmidt and his
boys have been. "I asked Paulsen, who it was because I had never heard of such a person in our
city.

"I think so," replied he, "Schmidt is in the black years ago poorhouse died, but at that time
he was a master, like me, not awkward, but his Lueders Work as in
life, the economical merit of the day was in the evening drinking
and playing cards wasted.

Even against my father, he had had a hatred, not only because its customers which far exceeded his own,
but even in her youth, where he its by apprentice have been driven away, and because of a bad
prank on him by the master was. Since the summer he had found an opportunity, they dislike more positively
to me too extend, for in the then newly established Kattunfabrik here too, despite his zealous
Striving for the same, the work on the machines have been transferred to me alone, as a result
he and his two sons who were with the father in this work and of desert driving possibly outbid
had not already missed me their displeasure by all sorts of teasing be made known. However, now
I had not thought of these people.

So the evening of the performance had arrived. I had to sort of my books and have what happened, only later
learned from my wife and Henry, who also went with our father in the council chamber.

The first place was there was almost no idea of ​​the second manned only moderately, on the gallery
but it had been neck and neck .-- When they started before this audience the game was Initially,
everything proceeded in the order, the old Lizzie had their part and without fixed Kick-off talks
executed .-- But then came the most wretched song!

She tried in vain to their to give voice a soft sound, as Father Joseph had said earlier that
she grunted really in depth. Suddenly a voice shouted from the gallery: "Hoeger up, Kroepel Hoeger-Lies!
up! "And when they, obedient to this call, sought to climb the unreachable Diskanttoene, as
a rapturous laughter echoed through the hall.

Playing on the stage stopped and called out the scenes between the trembling voice the old puppet
master: "My Herrschaft'n, i beg to g'wogentlich alone!" Punch, which he just at its wires in
the hand held and with the beautiful Susanna had a scene jerked convulsively with its ornate
nose.

New laughter was the answer. "Punch should sing !"--" Russian! Schöne Minka, I must Hurrah for
divorce !"--" Punch nothing but !"--"; Punch his' daughter to sing !"--" Yes, you wipe your tongue!
Has become the mistress who's doing never stop! "

How it went through each other for a while. Suddenly, flew in wohlgezieltem throw, a great Paving
stone on the stage. He had hit the wires of the puppet, the figure slipped from the hand of
their master, and fell to the ground.

Father Joseph had not hold anymore. Despite pleas Liseis he has a moment later the Puppenbuehne enter
.-- thunderous clapping, laughter, foot stomping received him, and it may be have presented,
however strangely enough, as the old man, with his head up in the soffits, make his righteous
anger with vigorous Haendearbeiten air was looking for. - Suddenly, among all the tumult, the
curtain fell, the old Henry had lowered him .-- I had infected while
at home with my books a certain restlessness, and I will not say that
I sensed trouble, but it drove me away yet, my family after I .--
When the stairs to the wished to go in town hall, just pushed the
whole lot from the top to meet me. All cried and laughed with each
other. "Hurrah Kasper is dod dod Lott is the Kamedie is to end!."
- As I looked up, erblickteich the black faces of the Schmidt-boy
above me. They were immediately still and ran past me out the door,
but I had for me now the certainty where the source of this mischief
was looking for.

Once at the top, I found the room almost empty.
Behind the stage sat my old father as if broken on a chair and held
his face covered with both hands. Lisei that on his knees before him,
sat up, as they saw me slowly. "Well, Paul," said them, viewing me
sad, "do you have the Kuraschi?"

But they probably had to have read
that I had in my mind, because before I could answer, she was already
on my neck. "Let us stand together as solid, Paul!" she said softly
.-- And you see! This, together with honest work, we got through it
.-- As we were all up the next morning when we found that dirty word
"Pole Poppenspäler" - because a dirty word, it should be yes - written
in chalk on our doorstep. But I have It quietly wiped away, and when
then later a few times back in public places was alive, because I
have set out a trump card, and because they knew I was not fun, so
it is then become quiet .-- Who has just said that is not evil have
meant by that, I will not even know his name.

Our father Joseph,
however, since the evening was not the old. In vain I showed him the
source of that mischief and unfair that the same addressed to me more
so than against him WAS. Without our knowledge, he soon had all his
puppets PUBLIC OF A Given auction, where they present to the cheers
of the boys and a few shillings Troedelweiber were auctioned, he never
wanted wiedersehen.-But the means chosen to was bad; because when
the first Fruehlingssonne again appeared in the streets, came from
the selling dolls dark one after another of the houses in the daylight.
Here sat a girl with of St. Genevieve at Haustuerschwelle, there a
boy the doctor left on his own black cat riding, in a garden near
the Schützenhof go one day Count Palatine Siegfried next to the hellish
Sperling as a scarecrow in a cherry tree. Our Father did the desecration
of his favorites such pain that he barely last home and garden leave
us like it. I saw it clear that this hasty sale to his heart gnawed,
and I managed to buy back the one and the other doll, but when I do
it claimed that he took no pleasure in it; destroyed the whole thing
was so over this. This was a man for little Renate (so was called Mademoiselle
Friends laugh) that she at least did not break her little head. It was only a matter of make
it to the degree in love, as was the village chief, but found the
first a little difficulty. His eyes began to be working as our first parents, it's He saw all
things in their proper relationship, the marriage did nothing more than a contract between two
parties for political purposes. Hortensia and her demeanor was stiff Now in his eyes nothing
more retardant because the father a respectable place in the Municipal held, and ten thousand dollars
could give to: he was reasonable. He had the love Marie eingeerntet to his advance; love him
now seemed an ingredient that does not the Heiratsverspruch belonged, and the great wisdom
of our contemporary philosophers went to him, that marriage is a mutual Huelfleistung, love is
a voruebereilende Grille, a marriage Miss his enlightened mind now seemed an equally unpardonable
crime, as he formerly of adultery and the seduction of innocence had seemed. In a village
to go, and with his friendly little Marie Bauer to be - or the prejudice of all respectable
People in Leipzig and to defy his beautiful peasant woman in the face of all his gallant to marry
acquaintances - what a shapeless idea for a philosopher, the "now" to first light the torch
of truth began the "now" only the relations of men, the deviations of the stalls, the follies
of fantastic young people, the errors of the Phantasei, and the vast area of ​​truth in the
truest light overlooked! From this Time he made the decision, Professor of Economics, the
next of natural law, to the international law, politics and morality. Proper morality, with
the destruction an innocent girl started! He reasons now approximately thus:

"The urge all men in common;.

He is a natural law, the Company may from me the duties of natural law not escape, as if this
society's obligations contrary. As long as they can combine them, they are welcome - what I'm saying?
they are mandatory. Therefore I can respect that I am not guilty of the Company, put out of
sight. Consequently, if I can Mary bring meaning that they at some time a trip to her relatives
vorschuetzt, execute secretly to Berlin, where I also my father had to visit her there, rent
a room, the child on the account of my future inheritance of the old and the friend of my father be
educated in the silence - in the meantime come back and a good match - Marie will always be
mine, and ever after we verstohlner Come together the more sweeter - Love has its own sphere, its own purposes,
their own Obligations which are distinguished from those of marriage sky far. "

He sat down immediately to write to his father to him by the unexpected
discovery that he was still alive, to make happy, and at the same
time for his beleaguered circumstances, auszubitten and a trip to
Berlin, a hundred Friedrichd'or Help there.

In this Just then Marie into the room. He dressed his project in such lies and flattering Colored
one that they agreed with tears in everything. Although she recovered, the joys of a, innocent
life, in a village where her father would have included it with both hands, with words in front
of old would, the stones have softened, but his policy came through this time. They wanted to stay in
Berlin until his father was dead, and he formally make preparations for a public marriage to her might.
It was a moment to insights into its higher, threw herself into his arms, her love for him again
on pressuring the lips, and was given the seal of his still as fierce passion.

Everything went well: he started on this, instead of verdruesslichen doctrine of powers and exponents,
a college over the morality and one to read about the Jus Naturae, which he did not mind breaking
cost, and extremely well off of the lung.

He got a feed, which was unheard of, and it lasted a half year, he left for his reading sessions,
a new compendium of the philosophical Morality, grafted onto natural and international law, print, and
in all the scholarly papers was raised to the sky. In the meantime, remained the poor little
Marie, the cause of all these Revolutions, an unfortunate cross between a wife and maid and her happy merriment
lost, and the roses on her cheeks were killed, and the time of her delivery drew near, Zerbin
began to be embarrassed when they came to his room. An unpleasant incident was still between.

The house of the Lord was laughing with friends over a coffee house, the village chief, both as
Altheim, in the time of their first acquaintance with little Renate, right after a meal usually
too used to visit.

In the period of the novitiate, since with the two still was:

But I get up, and stomping, and annealing, And in the spirit fly over
to her, And, stick to it as I flee, Always restless, always here Because,
to save me happiness and friendship, The often a long sleep attacks,
Me here, with diamond chains, The fate holds chained.

  
  
  Uz.
  
  Although Hohendorf now "almost no access in the
  home had more, or at least of the idol
  of his desires was always greeted
  very coldly: thus remained a certain Magic floating around this cafe,
and he always felt after eating a secret train to go, which he knew
not to give yourself accountable.

  Then he looked for his beloved little Renate very often at the window
with Altheimer, and takes revenge, or thought to with contemptuous
glances warmly to take revenge on them.

Altheim itself was also even then, sometimes, when talking about little Renate not let, or
a visit to a kinswoman made that he could not stand well, because they both always so subtle
Gave speeches.

On one of those afternoons Hohendorf Altheim came in a pool game where several people to use,
played together in a so-called Guerre, and Unfortunately, it happened, that the two rivals
just had to follow each other. High village, has long been a Opportunity to Altheim sought,
made without the benefit brought him self, his bales, which is against the rule of the game. Altheim
showed his displeasure about it; Hohendorf smiled and shook his head,
back when his turn came, he was, really unexpectedly and against his
will, the ball of the Altheim a second time.

Altheim, be assured that this done with the intent, to insult him, he threw the cue in the face,
they attacked by the sword, they separated them, the next morning they rode out of town out into the
Rose Valley, to fight on guns, where Altheim was so happy or so unhappy, his opponent to kill,
and ungesaeumt from the dust, made without afterwards, neither his mistress, yet our Zerbin, his
mentor, ever give one word message on his own.

Zerbin knew so well as other current liabilities, which he, on behalf of the Count made-to-get
the residues board, had not to pay, and he had a very other home entertainment begin. To get to
his landlord in a good mood, he spoke well, sometimes enigmatic, sometimes quite significantly,
by certain intentions, which he in his Daughter would have, whose youth and beauty began to fall
very sharply. Once Marie in their secret meetings uneasily testified about it, he did it with
the need this masquerade happy to talk to him the master of the house
not because house rent food and money, warned that in fact was not,
and its safety and tacit Liability to hydrangeas always made bigger.

His only hope, the last anchor, he was ejected, then the response from his father. Imagine
the delight of Mary before, when she told him even the letter from Berlin of the post brought
home, and the transition to desperation, as they now heard from his mouth, that here the dew
was torn. His father was, by one of the most audacious thefts because he was himself and his
old maid gagged, had been plundered, and "now" in allerkuemmerlichsten deficiency, as he known
for his usury, even when no one took pity. He asked his son to him, where possible, to support
them with money, or have come to Leipzig. It remained Mary's nothing left but tears and sobs,
she threw herself at his feet, he should take her go to her village to her by her father to give forgiveness.
All was in vain; He imagined that a history of the species if they would know him infallible bring
to his position at the university would, that he is by his authority, by his credit, put through his
scholarship so far would probably still be in Berlin in Execute the project with her here in
Leipzig that he would have a work under the press, for which he commanded three hundred dollars
Buchhaendler that he is for the education of would use child that she should expect him to her
friend in the suburbs turn to her to confess to their condition, a speedy vorzuschuetzen disease
in her remain under the pretext in her home until the birth was over, and under the Time to
hire another maid in her place, etc. She promised everything for love of him, they left him,
determined to offer all possible storms of fate despite him to keep his honor and good name
in town, on her own she did not think once. Her hands still wet with tears, with whom he had
summoned them, the matter kept secret, thought, looked, she understood no difficulty in this
case, she entered on to play the beginning of their role, and at her maid over a headache and
shivering to complain. In the afternoon they had made a plan to give her friend a visit, and
then attacked, as if they suddenly from a burning fever would be to go to bed lay.

But like the good little girl knew what she had promised! When she to her friend came, she found
she just realized in the clear up, because they had recited their rent, and a intended to take
another house. Husband and wife had, as on such occasions to often happens, Haendel get together,
and now "grumbled another. She was a cloudy face detected, the fear to come to her untimely hour,
locked her mouth. Her heart was accounted for, all of their attacks became confused, not knowing
one pending. She told her friend that she would be probably not, she was deeply regrets cold.
Oh, a tone of voice, a dry air is in such occasions, shy and tender souls of thunder! She came
home almost passed out again, and yet loved Zerbin it too much to him through narration of this
first attempt failed grief to share. They saw their fate as God's punishment for their carelessness,
the highest Degree of Melancholei, and found her solace, her lust in hidden tears. She did nevertheless,
add in a few days the second time after they imagined Zerbin was that everything was already in
accuracy: they are not your girlfriend was at home.

Again, this saw it as something the supernatural, her heart more and more of them fell, it was
as if her someone called out, thou shalt not see your girlfriend - O judges, magistrates, have
you the feelings of a young girl ever involved in the creation, if you talk to about their
actions you had! Punishes her what this means to discover his shame of another, what for overcoming
the costs, what a struggle between life and death in a female soul, not yet become shameless,
as must be created? She reached now the intent, in the hands of God, not to fall into the
hands of men, as they later confessed to her confessor himself added. She wanted to leave to their
fate, and wait for the worst, without Zerbin or any man to say a word about it .-- The bags,
which at that time also people low state contributed continuity, conceal their condition, in short,
the fruit of their forbidden Confidentiality, came to her last confession, dead to the world.

Under the laws of a concealed pregnancy alone is sufficient, a Weibsperson deny life when no
trace of the child aware of Violent is. Marie had wanted to hide their part in the speed of
the hay, just as the House, was due to a feast in the Vakantzeit, full of guests, and every
moment was used. The driver had climbed to the hayloft in her absence, the horses long to some
food, and he was the first show-off this unfortunate girl.

She was fed prison: Zerbin left to remember anything. Imagine the determination the generosity, the
love of this unfortunate victim before battle: it was by no means to bring meaning to hand over
the father of her child. All wisdom, all the strictness of the authorities was nothing, nothing
but incoherent fictions they could get out of it. The was a scene when her father, Schulz came
out of the realm village to her in prison.

"You Alleweltsh -" was his welcome, "what are you doing here Have I so learned of God? Bid sight set?
"

She cried.

"With hangman lose you - Who is the father was to tell me of God's justice! to follow me where
I bring it not so much that the guy "- he closed his thumb one, looked up, gritted my teeth, and
froth at the mouth.

She cried incessantly.

"O God of Lost - tell me the only guy" - he sat down with her to a broken Ton down.

"I do not know him, Father, I do not know him."

"You do not know him - that God will find him, God's court to find
him you do not know him?

You will not sleep as you but what can anraesonieren - My only daughter on the scaffold - Tell
me tell him to give me him, I want him to suffer nothing to do! "-" Of course That's as good
as in sleep, Father, in the noise, father! when we came from a wedding.

It was a Schuhmachersgesell, the Mainz she calls him.

"

"God will find him, the shoemaker - O my child, my child"

Here he hugged her howling, and pressed it, in appalling Schluchsen, repeatedly to be Heart. "If
I sat here in your place, you're young, you can live a long time -"

"I did not survive -"

"I had intended for my new house, it is under roof, and thou shalt the Nailer clean marry, it
is a young fresh blood, and has been so nice up any time. All evening I'm hinspaziert with
my old woman, and have been looking at the building and always resort
from you, as we do in winter so happy to live together, and wanted
to go to another busy light.

'I have five pounds from the beautiful white flax, which will help
them Spinning me', she said.

 The surprised
him, however little, for he had long thought of giving up his business and believed and hoped to
see in these phenomena, the future realization of his plan.

Motionless and black stood beside him the ghost with his outstretched hand. When he returned from
his position looked thoughtful, he believed in the direction of the
hand, that the invisible eyes rigidly fixed on him.

The thought ran through him a cold shower.

They left the busy surroundings and went to a secluded part of town, where Scrooge had never
been before, and its location and poor reputation, but he knew. The streets were dirty and narrow
and crooked, shabby the shops and houses, semi-naked men, drunk, barefoot, ugly. Streets and
gateway, like so many cesspools, flocked loathsome smells, and Dirt
and people in the streets, and the whole neighborhood seemed full
of crimes, Dirt and misery.

In one of the deepest corner of this sanctuary of sin and shame, a low, dark shop under a weather
roof, where iron, lamps, bottles, bones, and greasy waste of all types were sold. On the floor
inside was a pile of rusty keys, nails, Chains, Thürangeln, filing, cars, weights and old iron
of all types secrets, after which require unraveling few would have been created and hidden in
mountains of anti-rags Masses of corrupted fat, and whole bone ossuaries. Among the commodities
that he acted, was sitting next to a composite of old brick oven a gray-haired, almost seventy rogue,
from the cold outside a bulky curtain of sorts Rags, hung on a rope, and had protected his pipe
in the full enjoyment of comfort smoking.

Scrooge and the phenomenon appeared beside the man, just like a woman with a heavy Bundle slunk
into the shop. But she was hardly occurred when a second woman, also with a bundle in her ACTING,
and this was followed closely a man in an old, abraded black Suit, which was no less startled by the
sight of her as she shrank back from each other were.

After a few moments speechless amazement, attended by the old man with the pipe had, they broke
all three loud in laughter.

"Tell someone, the body of the laundress would be first," said the
first occurred.

"Tell someone, the nurse would be the second, and someone call the undertaker assistant the
third party. Look, old Joe, fits like that! if we are not all three met here have, without that
we wanted to's. "

can make "you would have in no better place," said old Joe, from the pipe Taking the mouth. "Come
into the room of state.

You have already long since the civil rights there, that you know, and the other two are no strangers.
Wait until I closed the shop-door have. Oh, how it creaks! I think it gives not such a rusty
piece of iron in the whole store, than the Thürangeln, and I know
there is no such old bones here, as mine.

Haha, we all fit for our business. Come to the State Rooms. "

The State Room was the room behind the curtain rags.

The old man raked the fire with a Rouleaustabe old together, pushed the wick of his smoky lamp,
for it was evening, with the stem of his pipe into the air and put
it back in your mouth.

While he was so busy that first occurred wife threw her bundle on
the floor and sat down with flirtatious impudence on a chair, then
she put her hands on the Knees and looked at the other two with a
bold defiance.

"Well, what's a difference, Mrs. Dilber?

Everyone has the right to care for themselves.

He always did it. "

"That's true," said the nurse. "No one did more."

"Well, why do I watch you because at each other as you were afraid
you?

Who's the wiser? We but do not peck each other's eyes, I think! "

"No, certainly not," said Mrs. Dilber, and the man together. "We hope not want it."

"Now as well," cried the woman, "that's enough.

Who's hurt if we take as a couple of things such as that? Certainly not a dead body! "

"No, certainly not," said Mrs. Dilber, laughing.

"If he, like an old miser who still wished to retain after death,"
continued the woman, "Why he was not during his life better?

If he would have it, would anyone around him have been when he died, instead of that he alone
had to forfeit his last breath. "

"It's the truest word that was said was ever spoken," Mrs. Dilber.

"It is an ordeal."

"I wish it would be a bit harder failed," said the woman, "and it would it also Rely on it, if
I had more to get.

Do the bundle on, Joe, and tell me what it's worth.

Say straight out. I'm not afraid to be first, nor it can see them. We knew well enough that
we cared for us before we met here. 'S is not a sin. Mach 'the bundle on, Joe. "

But the gallantry of her friends would not allow, and the man in the
shabby Black Rock brought his prey first.

There was not much to it. One or two seals, a silver pencil, a couple
of shirt buttons and a brooch of low values ​​was everything.

You were from the old Joe studied and assessed, after which he has
the sum, which he for each wanted to pay, wrote on the wall and counted
together, as he found that nothing came.

"This is your bill," said Joe, "and I was no more and sixpence when I'm in pieces should be
cut. Who's next? "

Mrs. Dilber was next. They had sheets and towels, some clothes, two old-fashioned silver teaspoon,
a sugar tongs and a few pairs of boots.

Your account has been in the same As written on the wall.

Ladies I always give too much. 'S is my weakness and I address myself to that fact, " said old
Joe. "This is your bill. If you wanted to have a penny more and ließet take the chance, it would
do me sorry to have been so generous and I would prefer a half Krone. "

"And now do 'on my bundle, Joe," said the first.

Joe knelt down to conveniently open the bundles, and after a large amount Nodes had opened,
he drew out a large and heavy roll of dark stuff.

"What's that?" Said Joe. "Bed curtains."

"Oh," cried the woman, laughing and leaning forward, "bed curtains!"

"You do not want to say but, you Had they 'put down, as he lay there?" Said Joe.

"I, of course," replied the woman. "Why not?"

"You are born to make your fortune and your's will too."

"I'm still really do not plug in my hand steady when I stretch out
need to get to something, the more a man's sake, when that was.

Certainly not, Joe, " the woman replied calmly. "Let no oil fall on the bed covers."

"His blanket," asked Joe.

"Who should she be?" Replied the woman. "He will not freeze even without this, I say. "

He died but not something contagious? "Said old Joe, his employment
interrupted and she saw him.

"That you need not fear," replied the woman. "I did not love him, so that I would have stayed with
him for the sake of such things. Ha, you can look through the shirt until you do your eyes
hurt, you will not have a hole in it and no thin spot.

It is the best he had, and finely's is. They would have ruined it, if I had not been. "

"What do you call it spoil?" Asked old Joe.

"Well, put on his shirt in the grave, what else? Replied," the woman laughed.

"It was someone fool enough to put him there, but I pulled him out
again.

If calico to is something not good enough, I do not know what he would otherwise be good. There
is a corpse just as well. He can not look uglier than he looked in the. "

Scrooge heard the call on in horror.

How does it to their prey around in the scanty Light the lamp of the ancients were, he treated
it with disgust and revulsion that is not be greater, could have if they had been hideous demons
that the corpse itself bargained.

"Ha, ha," laughed the same woman, herauslangend than the old Joe,
an old flannel purse the price of each robbery hinzählte on the floor.

"This is the end of the story is you see! He drove all of himself, as long as he lived to
benefit us, because he's dead! Ha, ha, ha! "

"Spirit," said Scrooge, trembling from foot to head. "I understand you. The lot of this Unfortunates
could be mine. My life is now to meet this objective.

Gracious heaven, what is it? "

He went back in horror, as the scene had changed and he stood close
to a bed, a lonely, unverhangnen bed where lay under a rough blanket
slightly veiled, which, although It was dumb, but is called in gruesome
exciting language.

The room was very dark, too dark to see anything exactly, though Scrooge,
obeying a secret feelings, look around, knowing full desire, what
a room be it.

A pale light that came from outside, fell straight on the bed, and on this, looted and robbed,
unguarded and unlamented, lay the body of this man.

Scrooge looked at the phenomenon. Her motionless hand pointed to the head of the corpse. The Cover
was so carelessly handle down, that the slightest move, the slightest touch reveals the face
of Scrooge's fingers would. He thought, and felt how easy it happen could, and longed to do
it, but he had no more power to pull away the shell, to dismiss as
the spirit of his side.

O, cold, rigid, dreadful Death, here to teach your altar and Surround
it with the Horrors that you are at his command: for this is your
kingdom!

But the beloved and revered Ever you can not touch a hair of him
you can not train make disgusting.

Not because the hand is heavy and sinks when they can not be covered,
because the heart and the Pulse silent, but because the hand was open
and compassionate, because the heart was open and warm and comfortable,
and the pulse of a human.

Kill, kill shade!

And see how his good Did issue forth from the mortal wound to see
in the world immortal life.

No voice whispered these words in Scrooge's ears, but he heard her,
as he did in the Bed looked.

He thought if this man could be brought back now, what would be his first thought? Greed,
callousness, greedy concern. A beautiful goal, they have prepared for him!

He lay in the dark empty house and no man or woman, or child was there
to say, He was kind to me in remembering and in the former, and this
one kind word will I wait for him.

A cat scratching at the door, and the rats were gnawing and rustling under the fireplace. What
they wanted in the prison of death and why they were so restless, daring Scrooge unthinkable.

"Spirit," he said this "is a terrible place.

If I leave him, I will not his doctrine forget, believe me. Let's go. "

Still the mind motionless finger pointed at the head of the corpse.

"I understand you, 'said Scrooge," and I would do it if I could. But I have the strength not to
mind. I have the strength not to do so. "

Again seemed to look at the mind it.

"If anyone is in town, who feels at this man's death a bit," said Scrooge shaken, "so I show it,
mind, I beg you for it."

The phenomenon spread its dark cloak for a moment before him like
a wing; and as she moved away again, he saw a brightly lit room where
a mother and her Children was.

She hoped to someone coming in anxious anticipation, for they went
in the room and down: startled at every noise, looked out the window,
looked at the clock, trying in vain to work, and could hardly bear
the voices of children playing.

At last she heard the knock on the door of the house long-awaited
and met when they wanted to look out, her husband.

His face was anxious and depressed, though he was young.

It was now a remarkable expression in it, a kind of serious delight
of which he ashamed and which he sought to be suppressed.

He sat down for dinner, as he had been lifted on fire, and when she first after a long silence,
asked what he brought to news, he seemed at a loss for the answer be.

"Are they good," she said, "or bad?"

"Bad," he said.

"We are quite ruined?"

"No, there is still hope, Caroline."

"If
he can soften," she exclaimed in astonishment, "then what is there!
Everywhere is still Hope, if such a miracle has happened. "

"For
him it's too late to have mercy," said the husband. "He's dead!"

If
her face spoke truth, it was a mild and patient creature, but she
was grateful in her heart and said with folded hands. She asked in
a moment God to forgive her and regretted it, but the first was the
voice of her heart been.

"What's my half-drunken woman said last
night, when I speak to him and by a week Postponement would ask, and
what I thought was just a mere excuse to dismiss me, seen now as the
truth. He was not only very ill, he was already dying. "

"To whom
will go over our fault?"

"I do not know. But even before that time
we will have the money, and even if this were not, it would be a great
misfortune in his heirs such a merciless creditors to find. We can
sleep tonight with a lighter heart, Carol. "

Yes, they want to hide
as they wanted, their hearts were lighter. The faces of the Children
who are still pushing for her to hear what they understood as little
lit, and all were happy with this man's death. The only excited about
this event Feeling, which could show him the spirit, was one of joy.

"Leave
me a tender, to see with the death of feeling connected," said Scrooge,
"or this dark room, which we have just left, will remain always in
my mind. "

The Spirit led him through several streets, through which
he had often gone, and as they passed floated, and hoped Scrooge here
and there to be seen, but he was nowhere to be seen. You occurred
in Bob Cratchit house, the same apartment that they had already visited
earlier, and found the mother and the children sit around the fire.

Everything
was quiet, everything was quiet, very quiet. The noisy little Cratchit
sat mute, as stone images, in a corner and looked at Peter, who had
a book before him. The mother and sewed her daughters. But certainly
they were quiet, very quiet.

"And he took a child and put it in their
midst."

Where Scrooge heard those words? The boy must have read when
he and the Spirit crossed the threshold. Why he went away?

The mother
laid her work on the table and put his hand to the eye.

"The color
dazzles me," she said.

The color? Ah, poor Tiny Tim!

"They're now
better again," said Mrs. Cratchit. "The color dazzles with light and
I would like the father when he comes home, can not see that I have
weak eyes. It must soon be his time. "

"Almost over," said Peter,
the book-closing. "But I think he is now a little slower than usual,
Mother. "

They were again very quiet. At last she said with a calm,
cheerful voice that only a once trembled, "I know that he - I know
that he and Tiny Tim on his shoulder went very quickly. "

"And I
also cried Peter. "Often."

"And I also cried the other. 

Chapter Four.

An Evening in Uncle Tom's Cabin.

Uncle Tom's Cabin was a small building built of bars close to "the = home =" as the negro par
excellence # # denote the apartment of their Lord. Before it was a clean Garden spot, in which
every summer gooseberries and raspberries and other fruits of all kinds and vegetables flourished
under careful hand. The whole front of the house was of the perennials a local, ever-blooming
roses covered the vines are so intertwined that almost no a trace of the raw bar was visible.
Also, various years flowers, such as gold paint, Carnations, wallflowers
found here in the summer, a quiet place in which they and their glory
could develop their scents, and were the pride and joy of Aunt Chloe's.

Let
us enter the apartment.

The evening meal in the Upper House is over, and Aunt Chloe, who maintains lead as top chef
preparing the same, has the subordinates the kitchen the business of cleaning and tidying up,
and leave in their own, comfortable Territory go to reach "their old" the supper. You must not, therefore
it To doubt that it is, which is on fire, and hissing, with scrupulous attention to certain Objects
observed in a pan, and from time to time with the very serious caution Cover the baking pan picks
under which unquestionably view "something good" . Produce steam Her face is round, black
and so shiny that you want to believe they would be as one of its Theezwiebacke been painted
with egg whites. Her whole, full face radiates under their turbans wohlgestärkten of satisfaction
and joy, although, if we only even have to admit, a light coat of self-consciousness betrays that
the first cook in the whole neighborhood, for which Aunt Chloe was and, more generally held was
lawful status.

A cook she certainly was through and through.

All chickens, turkeys and ducks on the Chicken yard was afraid if they come near Aunt Chloe saw,
and apparently thought to an end, and it is certain that they burn continuously over roast
and bake with such Vivacity of thought, that they put every thinking living bird in this horror
had. Their corn cake, was in all its modifications, a sublime mystery to all less experienced
trainees kitchen, and she shook her fat sides with joy and pride, when told of the unsuccessful
attempts made to one or the other of their colleagues had to reach its peak.

The arrival of guests in the "home," the preparation of lunch and
dinner in the "great style" awakened all her spirits, and her sight
was not encouraging high as a layer Suitcase on the porch, because
they had promise for new efforts and new triumphs.

Degrees at this moment, however, Aunt Chloe looks into the baking
pan, and we do it be intimately related in that their employment,
the picture of the hut until we have completed.

In one corner is a bed with the same cleaner, white ceiling, and on the side of the same There
was a piece of carpet rather significant extent. On this piece of carpet had Aunt Chloë their
stand, as they undoubtedly belonged to the higher regions of the human life, and the same, as the
bed where it lay, and indeed the whole corner of the room were with respect considerate treatment,
and as much as possible before the burglary and desecration of the smaller people only. This corner was
the guest rooms of the house. In another corner was a bed of far modest exterior, and was apparently
intended for use. The wall above the fireplace was with some brightly colored images from the Holy
Scriptures and a General Washington's portrait adorned, which was such colorirt drawn and that
It would have put this hero in astonishment, no doubt, if he ever a copy of the same had seen.

On
a rough bench in another corner was a pair of wool-headed boy with shiny black Eyes and thick, shiny
cheeks, employs the first steps of the youngest child monitor, which,
as usual, that were certain to rise on his feet, a to fluctuate moment,
and then to fall, with each unsuccessful attempt with resounding Laughter
was accompanied.

A table, somewhat rheumatic in its limbs, was before the fire, and was covered with a cloth,
which cups and bowls, of undeniably beautiful pattern, with or other symptoms of an approaching meal
was.

At this table sat Uncle Tom, Mr. Shelby's best slave, we daguerreotypiren because he is the
hero of our story for our readers need. He was a tall, powerfully built man with a broad chest,
the most brilliant black and with a face whose features genuine African Ernst and understanding
related to natural goodness of heart betrayed. It was in all its externals a certain self-respect and dignity,
combined with trustfully simplicity of meaning.

He was just at this moment very busy working with a board, which before him lay, and on which he
tried nachzumalen slowly and carefully a couple of characters, while
Master George, a cheerful, handsome boy of thirteen years, this employment
monitored, and the dignity of his position as a teacher seemed to
correspond to perfect.

"Not so, Uncle Tom, - not so," he said eagerly, as Uncle Tom laboriously the tail of his G
had brought on the wrong side, "makes the Q, you see?"

"God's will, really?"

Said Uncle Tom, honorable and his young bewundrungsvoll Teachers look at them during this volatile
hand with countless Q's and G's to its construction painted on the blackboard, and then taking
the pen in his thick, heavy fingers, began he works are all over again.

make "How easy white people all," said Aunt Chloe, pausing for a moment, During his employment,
an iron pan auszufetten with a piece of bacon on a fork and looked proud of Master George. "How can
he write! and read it! And then the evening to come down and read the Bible, - 'Tis mighty
interesting! "

"But, Aunt Chloe, I'm mighty hungry," says George, "is because the
cake in the pan yet sometimes good?

"

"Almost, Master George," said Aunt Chloe, lifting up the lid and looking down, - "Browning beautiful
- gorgeous brown. For this, let alone only Aunt Chloe! Recently Missis Sally was trying to
make, are in the cake to bake - just only to learn it, "she said. "Oh, go, missis," I said, "it
really hurts me to see the good stuff all so throw away!

Cake broke entirely on one side - no shape, nothing - not more than my Shoes, go! "

And with those final words, the expression of the awkwardness took Sally's Aunt Chloë the lid of the baking
pan quickly away, and had a nice baked pound cake see, its no city confectioner would have been
ashamed of.

Since this apparently the essential constituent of the banquet was, Aunt Chloe began now very
seriously prepare the table.

"Here, you, Mose and Pete! goes out of the way, you niggers! - Go
'Polly, my honey, - Mama what is her child, afterwards.

Well, Master George, you take away the books there and share They should be my old man, and
I will remove the sausages, and your plate in Moment be full of cake.

"

should "I come for dinner in the house," said George, "but I knew what was better Aunt Chloe. "

"Yes, yes, did you know's it - you knew it, sugar baby," said Aunt Chloe, the steaming pie heaping on his
plate, "They knew it, old aunt would have s'Beste pick for you.

O yes! "And with these words, Aunt Chloe George a blow with her fingers, and turned Then again
with great bustle to their pan.

"Now it will go to the cake," said Master George, as the activity subsided the frying pan had,
and it swung a large knife on the said article.

"God's sake, Master George," cried Aunt Chloe, with great earnestness to him falling in the arm,
"You would not want it cut with a large, heavy knife? Crushing everything, spoil's altogether.
Here, I have a old, thin knife was, and I stand it always sharp, grade it! Here, now, you
see - goes from one another slightly like a pen! Now it's going to eat! - S'nichts to bite in
it. "

Tom Lincoln says, "remarked George, speaking with his mouth full,"
that Jinny her a better cook would be like you.

"

"Does not change it, say, Lincoln's, - not," said Aunt Chloe despicable!; 're Nothing, I mean
our next = = people. Are very respectable people, quite enough in 'nerve simple way, but do something
big in style - nothing like this, no idea. Just Now, set alongside Master Master Lincoln Shelby!
Good God! and Missis Lincoln! - Can they appear as my missis - so brilliant you understand?
Oh, nothing! walk me to say Me nothing about Lincoln's "- and Aunt Chloe tossed her head in the
air, like a man! which was self-conscious, to understand something of the world.

"Good, but I hear you say yourself, Aunt Chloe," said George, "that Jinny one good cook is. "

"Quite
right," said Aunt Chloe, - "and the true 's. Well, usually, simple cooking - Jinny can, -
can bake good bread - potatoes cook - their corn cakes are not extra,
No, Jinny's corn cakes is not extra, but now higher ', continue up
in higher branches, which can them? - Dear God!

You can make pies, - certainly, they can - but what kind of dough
and Crust?

Can they make the real, light crust that melts in your mouth and rises like a breath? Just
listen to her - I was going h'nüber when was Miss Mary's wedding, and Jinny just showed me the
wedding pies. Jinny and I are good friends always's, you know. I said nothing, never, Master
George! Certainly,'s believe me - could not 'nen moment To sleep
the whole week if I would have made such a pastry pies, - were nothing
worth nothing!

"

"I think Jinny thought they were excellent," said George.

"Is not it? - So she thought. There it was, it showed quite innocent, - you see it just here's
Jinny not know. I feel that family is nothing! How can she know? Not their Guilt. Ah, Master
George, you do not know half your privileges in your family, and in 'he Auferziehung, "At this,
Aunt Chloe sighed and opened her eyes with deep emotion.

"Certainly, Aunt Chloe, I know all my pies and puddings privileges,"
said George.

»Ask Tom Lincoln only if I am not always boast so that when I meet him and him laugh at. "

Aunt Chloe sat back in her chair and laughed at the joke of the heart forces young man laughed
until the tears ran down her black, shiny shoes, while She was alternately
busy here, join him in fun and to beat him and say that he should
go away and that he was a villain - that he was able to it killing
and that he would surely kill her soon, and it fell between these
bloody prophecies into new outbreaks of laughter, which lasted longer
and longer for George finally started to truly believe that he is
a very dangerous witty man, and that he must give good care to what
he was talking.

"And you said Tom? Do you? O Lord, what does the youth does not everything? Do it laughed at,
and how did Master George laughed at him! "

"Yes," said George, "I said to him," Tom, you have to 'see times Aunt
Chloe's pies; the the right way is <I said.

"

"'Tis a pity, now, Tom can not," said Aunt Chloe, on whose philanthropic
Tom's heart unfavorable fate seemed to make a deep impression.

"If it still 'views invite to dinner, 'time these days, Master George, "she added,"' s would
be quite nice make of you. You know's, Master George, you should not rise above No one, because
Their Priv'legien because all our Priv'legien are given to us. We should always remember "
said Aunt Chloe very seriously.

"Well, I will invite Tom to some days in the next week here," said George, "And you will do your best,
Aunt Chloe, and he should open their eyes. Should he not us eat so much that he has enough for two
weeks? "

"Yes, yes - certainly," said Aunt Chloe very pleased - "You should have seen. O Lord! to some
to think of our meals! Knowledge's still the great chicken pie I made when General Knox was
here?

I and Missis, we almost had what dispute, because the dough.

What sometimes such women have ideas - do not know, but sometimes if a person just on Most of accountability
has to say to themselves, so, and got our very important matter, such Women have the idea to
hang one, and in all mix! Well, Missis wanted I should make it so = =, and then I shall make
= s = so, and finally I was almost rude and said, 'Well, missis,
you look at the beautiful white hands, your, with long fingers, all
with bright rings, just like my white lilies when the dew is on it,
and now look You my big black hands.

Well, you do not think is that the Lord wanted me to make the dough, and you should stay in
the room? <There you have it, Master George, so I was naughty.

"

"And what mother said," asked George.

"Did? - Oh well, they laughed at all with the eyes - the big, beautiful eyes, her said, and:
> Well Aunt Chloe, I think you're right, 'she said, and she walked away into the room. You
would have to give me one to the head that I was so naughty, but that's it - I can nothing to
do with ladies in the kitchen! "

"Well, you put a great honor to
the feast, - I remember clearly everyone said it, "remarked George.

"And
I was not behind the door of the dining room on the day? and I did
not see how General Knox handed to three times his plate just after
this pie? - And he said: > You must have an extraordinary cook, Mrs.
Shelby. <- O Lord! I would have from each other like to go! "-

"And
the general, he knows what to cook," added Aunt Chloe, sitting up
proudly. "Very nice man, General! It comes from the first family in
Virginia! He knows what It is, as well as I - the General. You see,
there are points in all the pies, Master George, but does know not
everyone that is or should be. The latter foolish Law remained
formally in force occurred but was not, of course, but the later Usual rate of interest of
one percent for the month or twelve per cent for the citizens Common year, which might be about time
for the Geldverhaeltnissen of antiquity, which according to their current rate of interest
from five or six percent, the well is already in this Time have been found to be the maximum reasonable
rates. For larger amounts Suing for the failure and perhaps the court has allowed recovery
be, about this notorious usurers were often drawn from the People's Court and a district willing
to heavy fines convicted. More important was the change process of guilt by the Poetelische
Law (428 or 441 326 or 313), it was thus partly each debtor, the hardened his oath Zahlungsfaehigkeit
allowed, by assignment his personal freedom of its assets to save himself, partly the previous
short executive procedures in loan debt abolished and found that no Roman citizen otherwise than being
seized on the verdict of a jury back into slavery can. That all This means the existing economic imbalances
relieve probably here and there, but could not eliminate, is obvious, the ongoing state of emergency
shows the low setting the Banking Commission to regulate Kreditverhaeltnisse and Advances payable
from the state treasury in the year 402 (352), the arrangement of statutory payments in date
407 (347) and especially the dangerous uprising around the year 467 (287), where the People
after it with new opportunities in the debt payment had been unable to reach beyond drew on the
Janiculum and only a timely attack the external enemy and in the Hort Saxon law contained concessions
the peace of the community gave back. However It is very unfair when those serious attempts,
the impoverishment of the middle class to control, entgegenhaelt their inadequacy and the application
of partial and palliative agent declare against radical suffering for useless because they only
help in part, is indeed a the Gospels, which is the simplicity of the vileness never preached
without success, but none the less incomprehensible. More could be reversed to ask if the poor
Demagoguery that time had already seized of this matter and whether it really that violent and I
needed more dangerous agents, such as cuts to interest paid on Capital. Our files are not enough,
just to decide about right and wrong; but clearly enough, we see that the middle class threatened
ansa vinegars still in a and economic position of concern was that one of the top down often, but
of course tries in vain to help him through Prohibitivgesetze and moratoria, but that the aristocratic
regiment continuously against his own limbs too weak and too much selfish class interests was
biased to the only effective means by which the Government at his command, by the complete elimination
of the occupation and unreservedly Systems the state lands, aufzuhelfen the middle class and
above all, the government of to free the accusation that they depressed condition of the governed
for their own benefit yield. A more effective remedy than the government intended to grant them
or was brought the middle classes, the political successes of the Roman community and gradually
fastened rule of the Romans over Italy. The numerous and large colonies, their Fuse had to
be founded and of which executed the bulk of the fifth century was procured, the agricultural proletariat
partly own farm services, partly through the Outflow also the backward relief at home. The
increase in indirect and extraordinary Revenue at all, the gleaming financial position of the
Roman rarely led even the Necessity brought about by the peasantry in the form of forced bond contribution
to . Collect Was also the former small holding probably irretrievably lost, it had to increasing
average rate of the previous Roman prosperity bigger landowners transformed into farmers and feed
even the middle classes new members so far. The occupations Making the cast mainly on large tracts of
land newly won, the riches, the masses of the war and the market must flocked to Rome, pressed
down the rate of interest have, the increasing population of the capital proved beneficial for the farmer in
all of Latium; a wise Inkorporationssystem united a number of adjacent, formerly submissive Municipalities
with the Roman and strengthened by including the middle class, and finally brought the glorious
victories and the tremendous success the factions to silence, and when the emergency the peasantry
were also not eliminated, much less his sources blocked, but it suffers no doubt that at the end
of this period the Roman middle class in whole in a far less pressured situation than there was
in the first century Expulsion of the Kings. Finally, the civil equality was of the reform years
reached 387 (367) and its further logical development in a sense, however, or rather restored. As before,
even as the patrician, in fact, the burgesses accounted for, they had been absolutely identical
to each other on rights and obligations, there was again compared to the extended citizenship
to the law subjected to arbitrary Difference. Those steps, however, that the differences in age,
intelligence, Education and wealth in bourgeois society cause of necessity, dominated natuerlicherweise
and community life: but the spirit of citizenship and the politics the government acted uniformly
then, this distinctive stand out as little as possible to . Let The whole Roman system amounted
to an average efficiency is to the citizens Cultivate men of genius to come up natures and
not wanting. The level of education the Romans did with the power development of their communities,
and was not quite step instinktmaessig from above, more restrained than promoted. That there
were rich and poor, settled not prevent, but as a right-wing led the peasant farming community as
the Tageloehner the plow himself, was true for the rich, the good economic control, evenly
to live sparingly, and to lie above all, no dead money with him - except the salt cellar elk damage
and the victim was seen Silbergeraet at this time in any Roman home. It was not small. You can
feel the tremendous success which the Roman community outside in the century of the last Veientischen
up to the Pyrrhic war won out, here that the Junkers of the peasantry had given way, that the
case of aristocratic Fabians no more and no less been mourned by the whole community would
be as the Case of the plebeian plebeians and patricians Decies of mourning was that even the richest
Junker, the consulate does not of itself and fell to a poor peasant from the Sabina, Manius
could overcome Curius, the King Pyrrhus in battle and drive them from Italy, Without ceasing so to be easier
parking Sabine owner and his own grain bread to build. However, it should not be overlooked
about this impressive republican equality be that the same good part was only formal, and from it
a very decided not so much variation within aristocracy emerged as rather to include a priori
was. , Long since had the rich and prestigious families of the crowd nichtpatrizischen separated
out and Mitgenuss of senatorial rights in the pursuit of one of the amount of distinct and
often opposing their policy, with the patricians ally. The law lifted the legal Licinian differences
within the aristocracy and turned to the common man from the regiment of a negative barrier immutable
laws, in a not insurmountable, but difficult to be exceeded real barrier. On one of the other
way as new blood came in the Roman Mr. Booth, but in itself still remained the regiment aristocratic
and even in this Respect, the Roman farmer a right community in which the rich full Hufener Although
Externally Insten of the poor little different and operates on the same and equal with him,
but none the less governed by the aristocracy so powerful that those without means far more
is in the city as mayor in his village Schulze. It was important and beneficial, hold that under
the new legislation, even the poorest citizens of the highest municipal office allowed, but that
it was none the less not only a rare exception that a man from the lower strata of the population
came to ^ 4, but at least it was against the end of this period, probably only possible by means
of an opposition election. Every aristocratic regiment opposite occurs by itself an appropriate
opposition party; and since the formal equality of the stalls, the aristocracy and the only
modified new ruling class, the old patrician class not merely inherited, but on the same grafted
and intimately with him grew, so did the opposition and did exist in all and each piece the same.
Since the reset no longer the mayor Lichen, but the common man arrived, the new opposition
came from the outset as a representative of the small people and especially the small farmers,
and how the new aristocracy on the Patricians followed, then snakes the first stirrings of the new
opposition with the recent struggles against the patrician privileges together. The first name
in the number of these new Roman Volksfuehrer are Manius Curius (consul 464, 479, 480, 290, 275, 274;
censor 481 273) and Gaius Fabricius (consul 472, 476, 481, 282, 278, 273; censor 479 275), both
suspect loose and not wealthy men, both - to the aristocratic principle, the re-election to
to limit it to the highest municipal office - each three times the votes of the citizens at the
head of the community called, both as a Tribune, the patrician consuls and censors opposition
Privileges and representatives of the small farm stand against the burgeoning pride to make the
Houses. The future party already distinguished itself, but is silent on both sides over the
interests of the common good of the party. The noble and the peasant Appius Claudius Manius
Curius, plus intense personal adversaries, by wise counsel and hefty Indeed, the King Pyrrhus overcome
together, and when Gaius Fabricius the aristocratic-minded and aristocratic living Publius Cornelius
Rufinus as a censor so punished, it was this is not from him, the same second because of its
established Feldherrntuechtigkeit Consulate to help. The crack was probably already there, but
still handed over to the opponents of his Hands. ------------------------------------------- ^ 4
The poverty of the consuls of epoch in which the moral Anekdotenbuechern the later time plays
a big role, is based in large part to misunderstanding some of the old fuel-efficient economic
management, which is quite tolerates with considerable wealth, some of the beautiful old custom,
men earned bury penny from the proceeds of collections, which is by no means a poor burial. Also
the autoschediastische Beinamenerklaerung, so much bathos in the Roman history has brought,
has made its own contribution to this (Serranus). ------------------------------------------ The completion
of the struggles between the old and new citizens, the diverse and relatively successful attempts
aufzuhelfen the middle class, the heart of the new-bourgeois Equality already projected initial
formation of a new aristocracy, and a new democratic party have been so represented. It remains to
describe left, These changes in how the new government was constituted, and how after the political
Elimination of the needle shaft, the three elements of the republican community, citizenship,
Magistracy and the Senate, against each other is presented. The burgesses in their normal
Meetings continued to be the highest authority in the community and the legal sovereign; only
been legally established that, apart from the once and for all the Centuries transferred Decisions,
including the election of consuls and censors, who vote according to district should be just
as valid as the Centuries after that for the patrician-plebeian assembly Valerian-Horat the law
of 305 (449) implements and Publilische of 415 (339) extended, for the special meeting but
the plebeian stronghold Sische to 467 (287) prescribed. That throughout the same individuals
were eligible to vote at both meetings, is already been highlighted, but also that, apart from
the exclusion of the patrician from the plebeian Special Assembly, consistency in the general
meeting, all district voters are the same, were in the Zenturiatkomitien but the effectiveness
of voting rights after the Assets of the voters classifying it, so far, however, the former a
leveling and democratic change was. Of far greater importance was that towards the end of this
Period, the ancient condition of voting, the residence for the first time called into question began to
grow. Appius Claudius, the bold innovator, known to the Roman history, Justice in its censorship 442 (312),
without consulting the senate or the people, the citizens list so that the non grundsaessige man in
him any tribe and then after his Fortune in the corresponding centuria was received. But this
change took too much the spirit of the time before, to fully endure. One of the next successor
to the Appius, the famous conqueror of the Samnites, Quintus Fabius Rullianus over, took it in his
Censorship 450 (304) it does not completely eliminate, but to include in such boundaries, Grundsaessigen
that the wealthy and the effective rule in the town meetings remained. It had not grundsaessigen
all people in the four urban tribes, the have now made the first in rank the last. The rural districts,
however, that number between the years 367 (241) and 513 (387) gradually rose from seventeen to thirty-one
on, so the house is far from overwhelming and more and more the superiority of maintaining majority
the vocal department, were reserved for all citizens by law ansa vinegars. In the Centuries, it remained
under the equality and non-ansa ansa vinegars vinegars citizens, as Appius had introduced
them. By this way was advocated that the Tributkomitien the Ansa vinegars predominated, while for
the Zenturiatkomitien in itself that the rich the deciding factors. This wise and moderate setting
of a man of his Acts of war because of how more so because of its legal Friedenstat with the surname of
Great (Maximus), received the one hand the military service was as cheap on the non-ansa vinegars Buerger,
covers worn on the other hand ensure that the district assembly in their Influence, especially
that of most part of the land devoid of been a slave, one bolt was pushed forward, which in a state
that allows slavery, an unfortunately need is essential. A peculiar customs court, which gradually
in the estimation and the inclusion of citizens in circumstances linked list, closed over this from
the burgesses all well-preserved and unworthy individuals from the middle class the moral and
political Purity. The competence of the electors shows the tendency to concentrate more and
more, but very gradually to expand. Even the increase of the magistrates to be elected by the
people, belongs to a certain extent here, it is particularly significant that since 392 (362)
war Tribune a legion Page 443 (311), four in each of the first four legions, not the generals,
but were appointed by the burgesses. In the administration took during this period, the Citizenship
in not a whole, only the right of the declaration of war was hers, as is fitting, strongly held,
and specifically also found for the case where one of peace Instead longer to complete ceasefire
expired and while not legally, but actually a new war began (327 427). Otherwise, was an administrative
matter of almost only the people provided, where the ruling authorities came under in collision
and one of them the case to the people with it - so, as the leader of the moderate party among
the nobility, Lucius Valerius and Marcus Horatius, in 305 (449) and the first plebeian dictator
Gaius Marcus Rutilus in 398 (356) not by the Senate earned triumphs granted were, as the consuls
of 459 (295) over their mutual competence not with each other could agree, and when the Senate
in the year 364 (390) the delivery of a delinquent Messenger, to the Gauls decided Konsulartribun
and therefore to the community turned - It was the first case where a Senate resolution was collected
from the people, and has difficulty it fined the church. Sometimes the government was on the
difficult issues to the people Decision prey: so first, as Caere, after he had declared war
on the people before This really started to bat Peace (401 353), and later, when the Senate of the humiliating
to beat the Samnites sought peace without further concern was (436 318). Only towards the
end of this period we find a much broader engagement of the district assembly and in administrative
matters, especially when the same survey and Friedensschluessen Alliances, it is likely that this
dated back to Hort Sische Act 467 (287). However, despite this expansion of the competence of the citizens'
meetings began same practical effect on affairs of state, rather, especially against the to
the end of this period, disappear. In particular, withdrew the extension of the boundaries of the
Roman Their primary assemblies proper floor. As the Assembly, they could Gemeindesaessigen very well
in sufficient completeness, to meet and missed quite well what they wanted to discuss without,
but the Roman citizenship was now less Community as a state. That cohabiting with each other
brought voted, but in the Roman electors, at least when was voted in by-district, a certain
interdependence and in the development and energy independence here and there, in the Rule, however,
were but the electors in their composition as part of their decision dependent on the personality
of the Chairman and by coincidence the part in the capital citizens domiciled in the hands. It
is therefore perfectly understandable that the. Town meetings, the first two centuries. the Republic
of a large and have practical importance, start gradually, a mere tool in the hands of the
presiding Officials to be; indeed a very dangerous one, for the presidency appointed official
shall many were, and every decision of the municipality was seen as the legitimate expression
of popular will in the last instance.
 

"I say it's disgusting! I care not by what they say, who's also! It is a disgrace! If I were
a man, they should not do - should they all determined not to do, "he said with a suppressed
sob.

"Oh, Master George! which I do well, "said Tom. "I could 'not bear
s that I had to go, without you even 'views!

It does me really well - you can not believe it! "

These words made a motion with his feet, Tom, and George's eyes fell on the ankle.

"What a shame," he exclaimed, lifting up his hands. "I'm the old guy down strike - yes, I do it!
"

"No, you do 's not, Master George, and not have to talk so loud. I may not Help to make him
angry. "

"Well, I do not want it, for your sake, but only to think of it, -
it is not disgusting?

You have not let me pick, I have not even given this message, and if Tom Lincoln would not have
been, I would have heard nothing of it. I tell you, I have she scolded, all together at home!
"

"That was probably not right, Master George!"

"I could not help it! It is a shame, I say! - Look here, Uncle Tom, "he added then added, turning
his back to the forge and mysterious tone spoken: "= I have brought you my dollar =!"

"Oh, I can accept it's not, Master George, no, to everything in the
world did not say!"

Tom quite touched.

"But you shall = = take it," said George;! "See here - I told Aunt Chloe, that I wanted to do,
and she gave me the advice, hineinzubohren a hole and into a string to draw, so now you can hang
it around your neck and hide it, otherwise this would mean robber
you take it away.

I tell you, Tom, I would like to connect with him! it would do me
good!

"

"No, you do 's not, Master George, for it would bring me = = no good!"

"Well, I do not want it, for your sake," said George, his dollar busy to Tom's Neck hanging,
"but now your Rock buttons to set about it and keep it, and every time You look at him, so think
about it that I come to you and will bring you back down. I've talked to Aunt Chloe, I told her
that they should fear nothing; I will care for it, and I want to annoy Vater'n to death if
he 's not do it!

"

"Oh, Master George, you must not talk like your father."

"God, Uncle Tom, I mean nothing bad!"

"And now, Master George," continued Uncle Tom, "You must always be a good son, and remember How
many hearts are there, hanging on to you. Always keep firmly to your mother and Do not fall
into such foolish ways boys have it sometimes, and do too much to be to listen to their mother.
Will you say, Master George, the Lord gives some good things twice, but 'he is a mother only
once. You will never again 'ne such a woman Found Master George, and if you are hundred years
old. So now, hold her, and are large, and their consolation, - there, that's my good son - not
true Do you want? "

"Yes, I will, Uncle Tom," said George seriously.

"And be careful what you say you, Master George.

Young people, when they are in your age come, are idiosyncratic,
sometimes - it 's nature, but a real gentleman, like you a will be,
I hope, never dropping words about their parents who are not respectful.

If you are not angry, Master George? "

"Oh no, certainly not, Uncle Tom, You have always given me good advice."

"I'm

older, you know," said Tom, by the beautiful curly hair of the boy with his big strong hand stroked,
but it spoke with a voice as soft as that of a Woman was, "and I see All that lies in you, -
wisdom, standing, reading, writing, - And you will grow up and a
great, learned, good man to be, and all the people in Places, and
your father and your mother will be proud of you.

Its also a good master, like your father - and a good Christian, like your mother. Remember
your Creator in the Days when you are young, Master George. "

"Yes, I will be really good, Uncle Tom, I vow 's you," said George, "and you should not discouraged.
I want you in any case to have us back. I like Aunt Chloe this morning I said, - I will have
to expand your house again and you should have an own room with a
carpet in it if I am a man.

O, Thou shalt not have good times! "

Haley entered the door of the forge with the iron hand in hand.

"Listen, Mr. Haley," said George with an air of great superiority, while the Car jumped, "I'll
show it to my parents, like your Uncle Tom treated!"

love ought to "be me," said the dealer.

should I think you ought
to be ashamed of yourself, your life buying men and women and close
together like cattle!

I would think you definitely need your own disgusting ! Happen, "said George.

want to "make it now as long as your men are still men and women, - I am as good as those, "said
Haley;" 's is not selling worse than now. "

"I will do neither of the two if I am a man," said George. "I am ashamed of today, I am a Kentuckian,
- previously I was always proud "And George was sitting on his. Horses just like that, and looked
with such a face around, as if he expected that the whole State should
be convinced of this.

"Farewell, Uncle Tom, keep good courage," said George.

"Farewell, Master George," replied Uncle Tom, looking at him fondly and with admiration. "God Almighty
bless you! - Oh, Kentucky has not many like you, "he added,! as the
free, open face of the boy was removed from his eye.

George flew away, and Tom looked after him until the hooves of his horse was no longer heard, -
the last note, the last look from his home.

But over his heart seemed to be a warm place to be, there where those
young hands had laid the precious dollars.

Tom raised his hand on and pressed firmly on his heart.

"Now listen, Tom, I will tell you what," said Haley, as he approached the car and the Handcuffs
threw in, "I mean, you shall 's are good with me how's my nigger ever have found, and so I tell
you straight to the beginning, you're honest with me, and I'm good against you. 'm Never hard
on my nigger, - always Thue's best for them, what I can. So, you see, Gescheidste is, you are calm
and happy and make me no tricks; for characterizing the nigger jokes' I have all, and I finished.
If niggers are quiet and do not try to run away, they have a good time with me, and if not, well,
for so 'S is their own fault and not mine. "

Tom assured Haley that he did not intend to run away. The admonition seemed be addressed, in fact,
quite unnecessarily, to a man who had suffered serious leg irons wore on his legs. Solo Mr. Haley
had the habit of his relation to new Waarenartikeln always open with little to such admonitions,
the aim of which as he thought, to infuse them with good cheer and
confidence, and the necessity of unpleasant to prevent certain scenes.

And here we assume for now from Uncle Tom farewell to the fate of
other persons of our to follow narrative.

CHAPTER XI.

Which the property falls into an inappropriate state of mind.

It was on a rainy afternoon when a passenger at the door of a small inn in the village of N - in Kentucky
descent. In Schenk room he found a very mixed society, which was the weather here in search
of protection, driven together, and gave the place Therefore, the usual scenery of such meetings.
Great, gaunt Kentuckian, in their Hunting shirts, their articulated limbs, so peculiar to them
in the cozy, laziness stretched over an incredible space, - guns, which were stacked in the corners,
Hunting bags, shot bags, hunting dogs, small blacks, by rolling each
other in colorful mixture, - Were the characteristic features of the
painting.

On each side of the fireplace sat a long-legged Gentleman, with reclining chair, his hat on
his head, and the heels of his muddy Boots on the mantels rest leaving, - a position which, as we assure
our readers have ruled favorably for the kind of considerations is that in those western Inns to be
found, in which passengers a peculiar fondness for this peculiar Way nachzuhelfen their reflectivity,
create your day.

The landlord, who was standing behind the bar, was, like most of his
countrymen, tall of stature, good-natured and clever, with an incredible
blanket of hair on his head, on which he wore a large, high hat.

It came in the room at all any sign of this character male sovereignty, be it a Felbelhut, or
a palm leaf, a dirty felt hat, or a nice, new # # Chapeau, - there he rested with genuine republican
independence, and seemed, in fact, the characteristic feature of each individuality to be. Some wore
it boldly on the side down - that was lively, funny, happy guy; Others had him pushed down to
low on the nose, - those were the tough characters, and by men by which, if they wore a hat
that would carry him across, and just as they pleased; Andre still left him far behind on, -
far-sighted men of all a wanted to have clear vision, while others
again, carefree men who either did not know or are not made from the
way her hat, was sitting around him on all sides floated.

The various hats, in fact, granted a field for a truly Shakespear Sches study.

Several negroes were in wide trousers, bustling back and forth, without having a could detect peculiar
result of their busyness, but with the peculiar to their sex Willingness to reverse everything in
all creation to its official master and his guests be. Imagine, finally, dear reader, to this
picture a jolly, crackling fire, which drive up the big, wide chimney, - all the doors and
windows wide open, so that the curtains in the cold, damp draft blown to and fro, - and you have
an idea of the amenities of a Kentucky inn.

The Kentuckian of the present time is an excellent sensualisation
the doctrine of inherited Instincts and peculiarities.

His ancestors were mighty hunters, - men who in the woods, lived and slept under the open sky and
the light of the star, and you Descendant is up to the present day
as if the house were his stock, - with his hat at all times, rolls
around and throws his heels on the chairs and fireplace mantels, just
like his forefather himself about on the pitch, rolled to his feet
and strains trees and wondered - will remain open all windows and
doors, summer and winter - everyone calls "Stranger" with nonchalant
bonhomie # #, and such is the open-hearted, and unceremoniously natured
creature in the world.

In such a free and easy society was our traveler. He was a short, stocky Man, carefully dressed,
with a round, good-natured face, and had something funny, In all
its strange appearance.

He appeared for his bag and his umbrella be very concerned, because
he brought them with his own hands and come here stubbornly resisted
all attempts of the servants to relieve him of that burden.

By a little anxious in the Schenk room looked around, he retired with his treasures in the warmest
corner of the same back, put it under his chair, sat down, and looked
almost fearful to to honor the man whose heels were worn by the fireplace
mantels, and continuously from spat right to left with a courage and
a violence that men of weak nerves and had peculiar habits necessary
to feel troubled by.

"Good day, stranger, how are you?" Said the Lord had just described by providing a salute Tabackssaft
from the area after the new arrival's fired.

"Pretty good," was the reply of the other, while the threat of unrest, with some honor sought to avoid.

"News"
asked the former again, a role tobacco, and a large hunting knife
from his Taking pocket.

"Would that not," was the reply.

"Chewing" asked That, by the old man a piece of tobacco with genuine fraternal countenance sufficed.

"No,
thank you - it does not suit me," said the little man, hitching back.

     
     "Do not, ah so," remarked the other, while appropriate the tobacco
     in his mouth stuck to there, the requisite supply of juice for
     the general good of society in constant readiness to hold.
     
     The old gentleman was always a silent horror to see if his brother
after his long to firing area, and saw this as that, he got his artillery
to good-natured attacking in another direction, and started the fire
tongs with a degree military talent, would have been sufficient to
storm a city.

     
     

"What's that?" Asked the old gentleman when he longer present a major Anschlagezettel grouped saw.

"A nigger is made public," said one of them briefly.

Mr. Wilson, because that was the name of the old man stood up, and
after carefully his had his travel bag and umbrella handle down, he
walked slowly to his glasses pull out, this was on the nose, and then
began to read:

"The undersigned escaped a Mulattenbursche, George.

Said George is six feet tall, a very light colored mulatto, has brown,
curly hair, speaks well, can read and write; will probably try to
pass for a white man, has deep Scars on his back and shoulders, and
carries on right hand a stigma with the letter H # #.

I will give four hundred dollars for him alive, and the same Total for the full proof that he was killed.
"

The old gentleman read this ad from beginning to end in a low voice,
as if he studied them.

The long-legged veteran, who, as mentioned before, the tongs had stormed now its great length
down, raised his tall figure, strode to the place where this ad was struck, and then play a full load
of Tabackssaft the same.

"It is my opinion about it," he said briefly, and then sat down again.

"Oho, stranger to what you mean?" Said Wirth.

"I would do the same with the point, he has written if he were here,"
replied coolly the tall man, while he made his old job, cut tobacco,
again.

"Anyone one guy has like, and can find no better way to treat him, deserves = = to lose it. Such
papers as there are a disgrace to Kentucky! That is my Opinion out just when someone wants to know
them! "

"This is' certain times," said the landlord, while he signed something in his book.

"I have a troop of boys, sir," I said the long man by his attack on the Tongs began anew, "and
talk to them like this: -> boys', I say -> now running, Run! if you want! - I want you never
to run after <- So halt 'I = I =. Let them 'S know that they can
run away if they want, they just lose the desire.

Moreover, I made out free coupons for all of them, in case I 'is too colorful times in the
present Times, and they know it. I tell you, stranger, 's gives no guy here, the longer brings out
his negroes, as I do. Do you believe it?

My boys are up to Cincinnati been worthy of filling, five hundred dollars, and gave me the money
brought home all right, - More than once. 'S is natural why.

Treat them like dogs, and you have dogs work; treated them like people, and you have people work. "And
the honest horse dealer confirmed his moral sense in that he is a feu de joie formal # # let
go to the fireplace.

"I think you're completely right, my friend," said Mr. Wilson, "and described here Guy is really
a good fellow, - no doubt about it.

He has for me almost six worked for years in my bag factory, and was my best worker, Mr. He
is also a clever and inventive fellow.

He has invented a machine for cleaning of hemp, - A really valuable thing, which is now used
in many factories. His master has the patent on it. "

"Can I think of it," said the horse trader, "did it and make money with, and then turns around
and blows the guy right in the hand. If I 'had ne good opportunity, I wanted to draw him, my soul,
should he 's' a good time to take him. "

"Yes, the wise guys are all the naughty, impertinent rascal," said a man of raw, ungeschlachtem
externals, on the other side of the room, "that's why she's whipped and be drawn. If they are
neat trick, would 's not done. "

"I mean, God has made man, and 's must be a hard pressure in order to to make beasts, "said the
horse trader dry.

"Kluge Niggers are useless even for 'nen Lord," continued the other, against a contempt his
opponent in a crude, unconscious obtuseness was well entrenched,
- "What do They talents and stuff, if you can even have no benefit?

Everything she is doing, that she will cheat.

Have not had a couple of those guys, but they have sold down the river soon. Knew that I would
lose early or late, when I do not's that. "

"Even better, you send an order up to the loving God that He creates what you without souls,
"said the horse trader.

Here was the conversation before the approach by driving a small, one-horse cabriolet's the inn
was suspended. It had a decent outward appearance, and there was a finely dressed Man with a colored
servant, who drove.

The whole assembly in Schenk room looked at the new arrival with curiosity, with which inn guests
on a rainy days usually observe a fresh arrivals. He was very tall and had a dark, Spanish
countenance, beautiful, expressive Eyes, and thick, curly hair, which was also pitch black. His well-shaped,
aquiline nose, his thin lips, and the strikingly beautiful forms of his limbs excited of the
whole society for the notion of something unusual. He walked with a slight Attitude in the room,
greeted the company, and indicated by a sign to the waiter, where
he did sit down his valise, which he, with his hat in his hand, carelessly
went to the sideboard, Shelby and his name as Henry Butler, of Oakland,
County, stated.

Is then turning around with an air of indifference, he strolled to the regulations posted in
the room Notice approach, and read them.

"Jim," he said to his servant, I think we have a guy who like this
states met in the vicinity of Bernan, right?

"

"Yes, indeed, master," said Jim, "only I do not know if it's true with your hand?"

"I did not, of course, paid attention," said the stranger, carelessly,
yawning.

Then the go to the inn, he called for a special room, because, as he said, once some Writings
had feared.

The landlord was very willing, and half a dozen negroes, old and young, male and female, young and
old, jumped out around the same, hurried and busy, partridges as a people, stepping on each
other's feet and stumbling over each other in their Zeal to put master's
room in state, during which he carelessly in a chair in the middle
of the room and settled with him the first sitting began a conversation
had.

The manufacturer, Mr. Wilson was the stranger from the first moment
from where he came into the room was seen with the expression restless
curiosity.

He thought he was seen somewhere and have learned to know, but he could not remember where.
Every moment when the Man spoke or smiled, or moved, he got up and fixed his eyes on him and
then turned quickly away again when the dark, glowing eyes of the
same to his own met with the expression of the most carefree rest.

At last, a sudden memory seemed flare up in him, for he stared at the stranger with a look of
such wonder and such Secrets of that this went up to him.

"Mr. Wilson, if I mistake not, "he said in a tone as he recognized it as just his Hand-stretching.
"I beg your pardon, I have not noticed before. I see you remember me - Mr. Butler, of Oakland,
County of Shelby. "

"Yes - yes - yes," said Mr. Wilson as someone who speaks in a dream.

Degrees at this moment in came a negro boy, who announced that the rooms of the Lord was ready.

"Jim,
look after the luggage," said the Lord carelessly, and then added, to Mr. Wilson Turning, he
added: "I you would for a brief conversation about business matters in my room To ask if you
do not mind. "

Mr. Wilson followed him, like one who walks in sleep, and they arrived in a large Room on the upper
floors, where a freshly kindled fire crackled, and various servants even flew to put the last
touches to the order of the room.

When all was done and the servants had retired, the young man carefully closed the door and
put the key in his pocket, looked around, and then his arms on the
chest beating each other, he looked Mr. Wilson full in the face.

"George," said Mr. Wilson. 

"Yes, George," replied the young man

"I
would not have thought's!"

"I'm pretty good distorted, I think,"
said the young man "Something has Wallnußschale my yellow skin with
a soft brown awarded, and my hair I dyed black. So, You see, the notice
to fit me perfectly. "

"Oh, George! but that's dangerous game, what
are you doing. I would not advise you can, to do it. "

"I can do
on my own responsibility," said George with the same proud smile.

We
must note in passing # # that George was his father's side of white
descent. His Mother was one of those unfortunate of her sex, through
their personal beauty intended to be the slaves of the passions of
their owners, and mothers of children are never allowed to know their
father. had from one of the proudest families in Kentucky He inherited
beautiful, European trains and a proud, indomitable spirit. From his
mother he had received a slight Mulattenfärbung caused by the associated
glossy, dark eye was completely counterbalanced. A small change in
the color of his skin and his hair he had lent the prestige of a Spaniard,
under which he is now showed, and as a noble attitude and a decent
manners, of course, it has always been were, he found no difficulty
in playing the bold role in which he is now moving - that of a traveling
with his servant gentleman.

Mr. Wilson, a good-natured, but very
timid and cautious old man ran restlessly about the room and down
while assisting in his heart the desire to George, with a dark terms
of maintenance of law and order seemed to struggle. While Wherefore
he pointed around the room, he was about to hear are as follows:

"So,
George presume, you are run off your lawful master, George - (wonder
not me) - but I must tell you however, I am sorry, George, - yes,
decidedly - I must tell you this, George, -. it is my duty to tell
you that "

"What does you sorry, sir?" George said quietly. have forecast and seal the
possession of these events, and rightly, for here was fought with unprecedented up to that An unprecedented
effort to fight up to that price. It was the first time that a Roman Army summer and winter, year
after year in the field, remained stuck until the specified target achieved was, for the first
time that the church paid from state funds pay the levy. But it was also the first time that
the Romans attempted to submit to a foreign nation coming and their weapons over hinuebertrugen
the old northern boundary of the Latin landscape. The fight was enormous, the outcome hardly in
doubt. The Romans found support among the Latins and Hernik, which welcomes the fall of the dreaded
neighbors hardly less and promotion granted as the Romans themselves, while leaving his nation
of Veii standing and only the next towns, Capena, Falerii also Tarquinii him influx contributed.
The simultaneous attacks by the Celts would this non-participation of northern communities explain
itself enough, however, it is told and there is no reason to doubt it, that first internal party
divisions in the Etruscan Staedtebund, including the opposition the aristocratic governments of
other cities against the maintained by the Veientern or restored Koenig regiment, that inaction
of the rest Etruscans brought have. Had the Etruscan nation can participate in the fight or do
so would the Roman town have been barely able to undeveloped at the former Hoechst Poliorcetics
gigantic task of defeating a large and strong city to end to lead, but few leave and as she was,
subject to the city (358 396) to brave Resistance to the persevering spirit of the hero Marcus
Furius Camillus, who first his people the gleaming orbit of the foreign conquests had opened.
From the cheers that the great success aroused in Rome, is an echo of the propagated in the Festival
Rome until late times Custom of "Veienterverkaufs" where placed for auction under the parody Beutestuecken
the worst-old cripple, could find the one in purple and gold jewelry Decision made as "King of
the Veienter. The city was destroyed to the ground curse eternal Desolation. Falerii Capena and
hastened to make peace, the mighty Volsinii that in bundesmaessiger Indecision during Veiis agony had
rested, and reached for taking up arms, condescended After a few years (363 391) is also to peace.
It may be a sad saga that the two pre Auer of the Etruscan nation, Melpum and Veii, the same
day that the Celts, the Romans of this subject, but it is definitely in her a deep historical Truth.
The double attack from the north and south and the case of the two parties was marginal the beginning
of the end of the great Etruscan nation. However a moment it seemed as , the two tribes of, through
their interaction Etruria in its existence Rub looked threatened, but among themselves and
also of Rome's newly prosperous powerful the foreign barbarians are trampled. This turn of events to the
natural course of Policy contradicted sworn, the Romans of his own arrogance and its own short-sightedness
up. The Celtic armies that were about to set Melpums Fall River, flooded with tearing speed,
the northern Italy, not just the open area on the right Banks of the Po and along the Adriatic
Sea, but also the actual Etruria on this side the Apennines. A few years later (363 391) was
already located in the heart of Etruria Clusium (Chiusi on the border of Tuscany and the Papal
States) besieged by the Celtic Senones; and so humbled were the Etruscans that the hard-pressed Tuscan
city destroyer Veiis called for help. It would perhaps have been wise to grant the same, and at the
same time Gauls by the weapons and the protection afforded by the Etruscans as a function of bring
to Rome: but such a far-sighted intervention that have compelled the Romans would, to begin a serious
fight at the Tuscan northern border lay beyond the horizon their policy at that time. So there
was nothing left but to refrain from any interference. Solo toerichterweise hit you from the
auxiliary troops and sent envoys, and yet felt foolish these to impress the Celts by big words,
and when this failed, with impunity against Barbarians to be able to violate international
law: they took part in the ranks of a clusin Battle and one of them stood in it a Gallic commander
from his horse. The Barbarians proceeded in this case with moderation and understanding. They
sent first to the Roman Community to demand the extradition of the wicked at the international law,
and the Senate was prepared to approve the request to submit. Alone in the mass compassion prevailed
against the fellow countrymen justice against the foreigners, was denied the satisfaction of the
burgesses, yes according to some reports, was named the brave champion of the country even to the Konsulartribunen
for the year 364 (390) ^ 6, verhaengnisvoll in the Roman annals Sun should be. Since the Brennus
broke, that is, the king of the Gauls army, the siege of Clusium off and the whole Celtic host -
the number indicated at 70000 heads - turned against Rome. Such trains to unknown and distant
regions were common to the Gauls, carefree to cover the retreat and marched as armed bands emigrants,
in Rome, however, one suspect apparently not the danger in this so sudden and so powerful Attack was.
Only when the Gauls were marching on Rome, crossed a Roman Army of the Tiber, and took their
way. No three German miles from the gates, opposite the mouth of the river Allia in the Tiber
River, the armies faced each other and It came on 18 July 364 (390) to the slaughter. Even now
it was thought, not as against an army, but as against robbers, spirited and brazenly in the
great struggle of untested generals - Camillus had withdrawn as a result of Staendehaders from
the shops themselves. Was it But Wilde, should fight against it, what was required of the camp,
securing the retreat? But the wild men of courage and fencing todverachtendem way the Italians
were so new as terrible, and the bare sword in his hand the Celts crashed in racing crash to
the Roman phalanx and ran it on the first joint to the ground. The defeat was complete; by
the Romans, who had fought the river in my back, found a large Part in the attempt to overstep
them, his destruction, and what escaped accused sideways close to the Veii. The victorious Celts
stood among the rest of the beaten Army and the capital. This was hopelessly abandoned to the
enemy, and the little there retarded or fled there was not enough team to the walls of To fill
and three days after the battle the victors went in through the open gates of Rome. If they
had done at first, as they could, so not only was the city, but also the state lost, and the brief
interval it was possible to flee to the sanctuaries and burying or what was more important
to occupy the castle and makeshift food to be provided. What could not carry arms, let it not on
the castle - there was no Bread for all. The amount of the defenseless was in the Nachbarstaedte,
but some, in all, a number of distinguished old men want, the destruction of the city did not
survive and expected in their houses to die by the sword of the barbarians. They came, murdered
and plundered that was found in humans and property, and finally ignited in the eyes the Roman occupation
in the Capitol at all corners of the city. But the siege of art they did not understand and
the blockade of the steep cliff of the castle was long and difficult, as the food for the
large army swarm only by armed streak in games were procured it, and that the neighboring Latin
citizenship, especially the ardeat, frequently opposed threw himself with courage and happiness.
Nevertheless waited with the Celts unprecedented power in their relationships seven months under
the rocks and already started the occupation, the dark of night in a surprise attack by the only
chatter geese on the Capitoline temple of the Holy and the accidental awakening of the brave Marcus
Manlius had escaped to give the food to run out, as the Celts an idea the Venetians in the newly
reclaimed territory on Senones Padus was reported and it moved, the for them to take the deduction
offered ransom. The scornful fling of the Gallic Sword, that it would be outweighed by the Roman
gold, very correctly described the situation of things. The iron of the barbarians had won,
but they sold their victory and gave him lost. --------------------------------------------------
---- ^ 6 This is after viable equation 390 BC, but in fact was the capture of Rome Ol 98, a
= 388 v. BC, and moved only by the deranged Roman Jahrzaehlung. --------------------------------------------------
---- The terrible catastrophe of defeat and of the fire, the 18th July and the stream of Allia,
the place where the shrines have been buried and where the surprise of the castle had been cut
off - all the details of this unprecedented event went over by the memory of his contemporaries
in the imagination of posterity, and yet we understand unlikely that really only two millennia have
passed since those world-historical geese be more vigilant than the proven established posts.
And yet - might be prescribed in Rome, that in the future with an incident of the Celts, none
of the statutory privileges conscientious was to liberate, there might be expected after the
years of the conquest of the city, might this event reverberate throughout the civilized world
and find their way to the Greek annals: the battle of the Allia with its results is still hardly
the momentous historical events reckoned. It changes not just in the political situation. As
the Gauls have left again with their gold, the only a late and ill-contrived narrative the
hero Camillus bring it back to Rome can, as the fugitives have found home again, the mad idea
of ​​some matt-hearted wisdom politicians ueberzusiedeln the burgesses to Veii, by Camillus' high-minded rebuttal is removed, the
affected houses and disorderly - the narrow, crooked Streets of Rome wrote of that time ago
- rising from the rubble, might also be Rome again commanding in his old position, so it is
not unlikely that this event much, if not for a moment, has contributed to the Contrast between
Etruria and Rome to take his sharpness and especially between Lazio Rome and the bonds of unity
to establish new firm. The struggle of the Gauls and Romans, is not equal that between Rome and
Etruria and Rome and Samnium, not a clash of two political Powers which are interdependent and determined,
he is comparable to the natural disasters, according to where the organism when it is not destroyed
immediately sits down in the same. The Gauls are often not returned to Lazio, so in 387 (367),
where they at Camillus Alba beat - the last victory of the aged hero, the six consular tribune,
dictator was five times and drawn four times in triumph to the Capitol was, in 393 (361), where
the dictator Titus Quinctius Pennus against them, no full mile from the city superimposed
on the Aniobruecke, but before it was even come to fight, the Gallic swarm moved on to Campania,
in 394 (360), where the dictator Quintus Servilius Ahala before Colline gate with the returning troops
fought from Campania, in the year 396 (358), where them the dictator Gaius Sulpicius Peticus
inflicted an emphatic defeat, in 404 (350), where they camped over the winter even on the Alban
Berg and with the Greek Pirates on the coast to the robbery, beat up Lucius Furius Camillus, the
son of the famous General, the following year drove them - an event from which the contemporary
of Aristotle (370-432 384-322) heard in Athens. But this Raubzuege how scary and difficult
they might have had more than Ungluecksfaelle political events and the most essential Same
result, that the Romans themselves and abroad in ever-widening circles as the bulwark of the
civilized nations of Italy against the impetus of the dreaded barbarians released - a view which says
their future position in the world more than you promoted added. The Tusker, who had used the
attack by the Celts in Rome to Veii berennen had not aligned as they were published with insufficient
forces, no sooner were the barbarians deducted, as the heavy arm of Lazio, she met with undiminished
weight. After repeated Defeats the Etruscans remained the whole of Southern Etruria to the
Cimini hills in the hands of the Romans, who in the territories of Veii, and Capena Falerii
four new districts Buerger setting up (367 387) and the northern border secured by the investment
of fortresses Sutrium (371 383) and Nepete (381 373). walked with rapid steps in this fertile
and Roman Colonists against strip of land covering the complete Romanization. By 396 (358)
attempted Although the Etruscan cities naechstliegenden Tarquinii, Caere, Falerii against the
Roman Rebel incursions, and how deep the resentment was the same raised in Etruria had, shows
the massacre of the totality in the first campaign made Roman prisoners three hundred and seven
in number, in the marketplace of Tarquinii, but it was the bitterness of powerlessness. In the Peace (403
351) had to Caere, which, as the Romans initially located at the worst, lost to cede half of Landmark
in Rome and with the narrowed area him, stayed out of the Etruscan league off and get in the
Untertanenverhaeltnis to Rome, which now include single Latin communities had arisen. It seemed
not advisable, however, this remote and Roman derived from the various community to keep those
local autonomy, which the Lazio submissive communities was still remained, it was the community
not caeritischen Roman citizenship only without active and passive voting rights in Rome, but also
confiscation of self-government, so that the place of its own officials in the administration
of justice and estimation of the Roman occurred at the place and even a representative (praefectus)
of the Roman Praetor administration initiated - a first encounters here constitutional form of serfdom,
whereby the previously independent state into a legally continuing, but deprived of any self-motion
Community was transformed. Not long afterwards (411 343) was also Falerii that its original
Latin nationality under the Tuskerherrschaft retains had, from the Etruscan Bunde, and in eternal covenant
with Rome so that all southern Etruria was in one way or another Form of the Roman supremacy
subject. Tarquinii and probably in history that the northern Etruria we are content to captivate
with a peace treaty to 400 months for long-term (403 351). Also in northern Italy gradually arranged
themselves through and against one another storming Voelker again in permanent way and tighter limits.
The trains did not hear the Alps on, in part probably because of the desperate defense of the
Etruscans in their limited Home and the serious opposition from the powerful Romans, probably in part
due to us Vera unknown changes in the north end of the Alps. Between the Alps and Apennines down
to the Abruzzo were now the Celts in general, the dominant nation, and especially the men the
flat land and rich pastures, but in its flaccid and superficial way settlement their rule is
not rooted deep in the newly acquired landscape and designed by no means to exclusive possession.
As it was in the Alps and Celtic settlers, as here with Etruscan older or different tribes
mingled allows our inadequate Customer about the nationality of the later Alpenvoelker not
identify, only the Raeter in today's Graubuenden and Tyrol allowed referred to as a probable
Etruscan tribe be. The valleys of the Apennines kept the Umbrian, the northeast part of the Po
valley other language Veneti owned, in the western mountains held their Ligurian: Tribes, who lived
up to Pisa and Arezzo down and left the actual Celtic land of Etruria. Only in the central
plains lived the Celts, just north of the Po and Insubres Cenomani the Boii south, on the Adriatic
coast of Ariminum to Ankon, in the so-called "Galli Erland shank" (Ager Gallicus) the Senones,
to say nothing of smaller tribes of. But even here, must Etruscan settlements have survived at least
in part, such as Ephesus and Greek Miletus remained under Persian suzerainty. Mantua, at least, which
by its Island was protected, was still in the imperial period a Tuscan city and in Atria on the Po,
where many vases finds are made, the Etruscan survived being seems to have, still known under
the name of the Skylax to 418 (336) drafted Kuestenbeschreibung identifies the area of ​​Atria and
Spina Tuscan country. Only in this way also explains how Etruscan Corsairs were able to go into
the fifth century, the Adriatic Sea uncertain and why not just Dionysius of Syracuse, the coasts of
it covered with colonies Athens, but even more to 429 (325), as a recently discovered document
strangely teaches to protect the merchant against the Tyrrhenian caper plant a colony in the Adriatic
Seas decided. But did this more or less claim to being the Etruscan, It was the single rubble
and splinters of the former power development, of the Etruscan Nation has benefited not know
what here in the peaceful market or in the naval war of individual was still achieved about. By
contrast, probably half of them free, the Etruscans Those beginnings of civilization, which we later by
the Celts and at all the Alpenvoelkern find. Even the Keltenschwaerme in the Lombardy plains, with
the so-called talking Skylax, the military life tasks and consistently ansa vinegar made, belongs
to the Part here, but also the beginnings of Crafts and Arts and the alphabet are the Lombard Celts,
even the Alpenvoelkern to the present are fed into Styria by the Etruscans. So stayed north
after the loss of possessions in the Campania region and the whole landscape from the Apennines and
south of the forest, the Etruscans Cimini very defined boundaries: the times of power and of
prosperity for them were over for ever. In close interaction with these external sink is the internal
decay of the nation to which the germs of course been well established much earlier were. The
Greek writers of this period are replete with accounts of the self-indulgent luxury of Etruscan
life: South Italian poet of the fifth century, the city praise the Tyrrhenian wine and the simultaneous historian
Timaeus and Theopompus produce images of the Etruscan women farmed and the Etruscan Table, which
give the worst Byzantine and French immorality nothing. How little the individual certified
in these reports also, so seems at least be due to the indication that the abominable amusement
of the gladiators, the canker Rome of the later and generally the last period of antiquity,
first by the Etruscans has arisen, and in any case they can not cast doubt on the whole of the
deep degeneracy the nation. The political responsibility of the same are convinced of this. As far
as our Customer meager enough, we find mainly aristocratic tendencies, in a similar manner same
as in Rome, but rugged and perishable. The abolition of the monarchy, which have been carried
out by the time the siege Veiis already in all the states of Etruria seems to be called in
the various cities show a patrician regime, which by the Loose Confederation Band only saw little
limited. Rarely succeeded, even to unite to defend the country all the Etruscan cities, and Volsiniis
nominal hegemony holds not the slightest comparison with the enormous force exerted by Rome's
leadership the Latin nation received. The fight against the exclusive rights of the old bourgeois
to all municipal departments and all municipal uses, which would also have the Roman state have
to spoil if not have the external success made it possible, the claims Workers of the depressed
to some extent at the expense of foreign peoples and to satisfy the oeffnen ambition to other
cars - the struggle against the political and what is especially in Etruria emerges against the state
monopoly of the priestly aristocracy must Etruria have addressed economically and morally based.
 The first, her embarrassment at this came into
the union, was Zerbin; the cold of the count seemed to her not the fruit of an unconscious Nature,
but a bebollwerkten by long deliberation entrenchments. So she made a plan to undermine the
fortress, view the war, our astute builder too ignorant, was a triumph that flattered their applied
imagination more than Alexander the conquest of Babylon, and its first assault was directed to Zerbin
they for Dante the coming of this place was.

Zerbin! This inexperienced, never true same, with all the intrigues of female list so completely unknown
Captain: How could the attack of the kind can withstand long? It had never taken a woman take
the trouble to shake his innocence because he is not rich, and was even less pleasant, though its
outer form was pretty good eye. He knew no one, I say not one of the millions of little things
like that those women of good sound are now talking, and he was like Saul among the Prophet,
when he joined a company of ladies. He saw nothing but supernatural beings out of his sphere
of them, for which he, because he is not only their words and actions understood, nor einsah,
such a deep inner reverence felt that he in any reply, he had to give them, rather fallen on
his face would be, and would have adored. With such opponents, however, the victory was not
neck-breaking, the first night he came home, he ate a bite, he spent the night sleepless on
stabbing springs to, the morning after an accident all his algebraic calculations, and he found
himself compelled, vorzuschuetzen a cure, and remove his listeners a month to get in front
of them not to make ridiculous. Notwithstanding this high village remained his most intimate
friend, and He was so excessively frankly to him, leave him in the least not to notice the advantage
to the heart he seemed to have little Renate, but all this with his aura as Shy probably to
cover up that he removed him when his whole confidence. However, he betrayed this shyness well at
times myself and it started a ghost in his heart to rain, which he previously scarcely knew
by name, the irrepressible jealousy, ever on the liver of a mortal has gnawed. This because he suppressed
the day was over, in the night air, and made him break out sometimes in a loud moaning and crying,
Altheim, in the a room to sleep with him, could not be inattentive.

One of the most original scenes was Zerbin with little Renate, Hohendorf and Altheim Triset
to see play.

Each card had the poor love sick ideas an importance that secret mystical sense only to him,
and his idol was clear, and she was thinking each card says. He played miserably, and made
it a game after another lose, and if they became seriously evil to him, he thought it was
the finest garb her infinite passion for him, they knew no other means to him, without of the
other to be noticed, to make understandable. She, who in addition to the interest of their great
passion, knew no other than the miserable interest of the little card game, could, when he alluded
to it with all ten cards in hand, the ace of hearts, fire and flames advised that he knew all
cope very well defined, and in their fierce, often immodest always references verstohlne hints
of tenderness, or perhaps even the signal for a rendezvous believed to discover, after which
he expired the following day the legs, never their faces to see. Of him would have made a bad service,
who even from afar would have helped to track down what the true motive of her whole masquerade against
him was. He is even really have been all night under her window, because they brought him to his
Koeur Invite in the Neapolitain in diamonds, which he, because of its square Diamond figure,
for an infallible sign of a rendezvous under the window was.

It was not long before Altheim urged his grief, that is, Zerbin confessed, that the stimuli little Renate
not the people of a stimulus, but the deity itself would be wishing
to show their form under visible on earth.

Altheim was compassionate with his nightly sighs, he was curious - Chandeliers in love. The
pride Zerbin itself, and Hohendorf to make their supposed conquest accelerated dispute, his love
Conversion. Zerbin noticed this, because even notice the eye of a lover not, he began the
despair that had been raging on his face, return to himself, and to hide under a smiling face. He
was wiser, spared, income of women societies, and therefore all the more unfortunate because his
heart he never was allowed to deflate and the hidden Gram with the more toxic scorpion claws
turn pinched. He now saw clearly from the sudden Transformation little Renate against him,
that all its allurements only been a blind attack were that had actually been subject to his master. The wound was
beaten, he was bleeding - and no one had pity on him. They did cold, brittle, sometimes even base
against him, to make him completely sober from his error, only noticed when they see that his pride
been bent too deeply, he was an attentive eye to not say how Petrarch, the humility that is
printed down too deep to inflame the anger. Who was unhappy, who was enlightened, as he now "about
the great driving force of female souls? He saw that no other path for him was left to stay still
in his right mind when the house to have to be avoided forever, and his benefactors in the
possession of the beautiful booty. He be placed in front's fixed, it broke a few times, sat down
in front's back, swore to it, to at last he was master of himself, and now great from Altheimer
on behalf of his beloved Anticipated accusations about it: but alas! it is not even missed.

"Now
took his destiny a tragic turn. That the human heart is deceitful and despairing thing is, is
a common saying which hovers also Allereinfaeltigsten on the lips, the but, when it is in
our own true power, no human ingenuity, were it be the maximum most universal genius that
I may say so, caught in the act, and he can meet with duly-prepared chest. We always vary,
between hope must fluctuate and despair, the most daring inspired
soul fluctuates more terrible.

Happy, whose very reason in this vacillation has become itself a certain balance bring white!

Zerbin
despondent now be loved in himself and in the possibility that ordinary fate of the noblest souls that
their misfortune is not accidental circumstances, but their own unworthiness are due so inclined.
The white dude from such a shift very quickly out in the noble man but she eats like a worm,
on the inner harmony of its Forces. All his long-cherished and maintained ideas, feelings, and designs
are now all at once, such as stretched on the rack, distorted and torn apart because, the whole
Man is his destruction in the face. He recovered but again, his soul was their previous speed-strength
again, but only to the more sensitive and inconsolable suffering.

In the meantime, took the little Renate Negoziationen between Altheim and their desired progress,
and the chief village of this too soon became aware, desperate about it. He often came to Zerbin,
of, behind drawn window curtains, sat buried in mathematical books, in which He unfortunately!
often busy all day reading, not understanding but two lines, even on the first Page was always
like gebannet, so did his thoughts as torn irrepressible Stallions, put another way. The study
was, all his students left him; Hohendorf alone remained, but more
to complain to him his need to learn to win as a fortress.

Zerbin heard all his complaints, curses, insults and blasphemy over Altheim and little Renate with
great patience, and never had the heart, dazuzufuegen his, but akkompagnierte him to the highest
with some half-stifled sigh, or a frosty smile and a Sun Socratic countenance, that he himself
would have the discerning of cheated because he was determined, and a certain charm in it, found
himself with this feigned indifference the heart to push .-- external circumstances were added,
Altheim was the warm, caring friend not for him, two passions, the heart of ordinary people can never
be the same Time employment; this came a certain kind of Zurueckhaltsamkeit against him because
he had known little Renate fell in love. Her treatment was cold, dry, sullen, and he went early
in the morning from the house, and came home late at night and they were so strange that they began
to fear for each other. The death of friendship is mistrust his Exchange arrived, he forgot
to pay the pension Zerbin; Zerbin was too proud to him warn: he wanted to give himself the
least not only that he change in his heart noted against him. The feeling of friendship is so delicate that
the slightest rough wind it does die, and often turned into deadly hatred; scolds the love and
became reconciled again, the friendship conceals their displeasure, and dies forever. Two friends
see Even just a different form each other, once the deception stops must be a friend before
the other pale and trembling.

Zerbin, except the flat table and nothing was off began to understand the need, his pain, the
purpose not noble enough, was it on the length to himself justified to provide some distraction.
He wanted the theater, the Kaffeehaeuser Attend to avoid being crushed by the Alp hypochondriac
who would very much like a grief joins, which is refined by no more passion. All his learning
was from taken leave of his head, he had as a schoolboy to start over again, and, what was
the worst, he stood little Renate, and with it all the imagined pleasures as a hostile Muse, in
every step of way, and crack, as that storm of Jerusalem, in the next hour everything back on what
he had built in the last with difficulty.

My Readers may be surprised at the first true picture of a Maennerseele, perhaps regret but also
with serious thought to the unfortunate, the victim of a so- policy was dishonest. As I said,
his students left him, and the lack gnawed and pressed, he got into debt - and that - because it
was too bashful, too proud - perhaps too recipient was someone else to speak, in his housekeeper
that he, when he, the Heart would have taken to warn Altheimer to pay with interests hoped, therefore,
thus spared the humiliation of having people other liabilities.

Altheim, however, knew all the phrases in a formal little Renate Heiratsverspruch Sun sent to avoid
that they finally became tired to devise new tricks, and prefer leaving the pleasant security,
the greatest heroes of antiquity Sun often hurried over before the end of all their undertakings. They
now sought out his passion all possible advantages to draw the present moment, and because
the count was anything but miserly, he squandered vast sums her a thousand alternations to
gain pleasure from. Both thought to avoid the suspicion and the future not, evil tongues said
even in the city's ear, her acquaintance was of visible consequences have been. Some of this
gossip might be rewritten, even from village chief; they got themselves to the ears without offending
about it much, or their performances careful to set up, so they called
in the end little Renate everywhere only the countess.

Zerbin heard of this designation, and worries anecdotes in all societies, the he still attended,
coming down his goddess SE of their dignity to see so deeply humiliated, could not but poison the
last germ of virtue in his heart. He sought is to gain a better opinion of women, he tried
his heart anzuhaengen elsewhere; It was in vain. Man of the House, which he and the Count lived
together, a Daughter, who was extremely Buecherlesen the result, and to an end all weeks locked
in her office, without being seen differently than when eating. He persuaded the Count him auszudingen
with his landlord, the food, which the did with joy, because this Table cheaper than in the inn was, and
he now fell to his wastes began to save more than usual. Zerbin hydrangeas looked at (that was
the daughter of his Host) at least the consolation of a social conversation
- but alas!

He had also play the usual lyre see again. She put all that he talks and acted as Institutions
to have a closer connection with it off, because of which it even after the habitual Cyclically
one step after another to meet him did. There is a man who said all their Look, all their faces,
all of its meaning be addressed, selected, ausstudierten in her cabinet Speeches, and he wants to marry
you! You'll find bread with him, it's better woman masters hot, remain as a single man, and
he thinks respectable. He thought not respectable, and he wanted this do not rigid, clear-cut,,
of all steps in the state of holy matrimony, so He was also very Algebraist - like he wanted.
He wanted to attachment, the connection of a heart to the other without economic intentions - he
wanted no housekeeper, he wanted a wife, the joy, the happiness, the playmate of his life, and
their intentions were far apart sky; he steered to the south, they headed north, they understood
there is no single word. But thought they understood him, all his favors, his caresses all (for
what caress not a man in despair?) they replied with a blunt, cold Brittleness, which it always
either looks, or probably even in words, the matrimonial pointed out, as if possible until then
no close union of hearts, or rather, as whether any one else, when that happens behind the
curtains, some of the terms would have. The poor man on it went, consumed with himself. He had to love
something - here began the Terrible in its history.

His housekeeper was a young, slim, Rehfuess, always cheerful and funny girl. Your kindness knew
no bounds, beautiful her figure as if it could be, not her face fine, but the whole soul painted
in it. This honesty, this worry-free infinite Encouragement in her eye spread comfort and joy
on every face, which they saw; they did not read, but the better dance, which her spirits in her so
inimitable vivacity received. In fact, their usual course almost a constant Dancing, and cheered
when she spoke, her, not to please with it, but because the warm inner pleasure with themselves
and their condition knew no other way. In its Suit, she was always very clean, and this virtue
both, as a matter of taste, let Your mistress is infinitely far behind .-- How much of the moment
to How many terrible disasters was the only time the connection of small, often unimportant
translucent circumstances the fuse! Oh, that our judges, perhaps better later Times in imitation
of divine justice, even put it on the scales do not the action itself, as it catches your eye,
but with all its occasions and compelling reasons addressed, before
they would have to punish the heart - In one of the moments where
the human soul despaired of all her happiness, brought Marie (that
was the housekeeper) Zerbin the coffee in your room.

Man of the House was just with his whole family a Landfestin two hours before driving out of town,
from which he never came back before evening. Zerbin had the morning to a citizen who him to a
ride a week ago, the Borrowed horse, given the last penny out of the bag, it occurred to him when
he danced saw a room there, by the sensation of cold and lack horrible about it hovered this benign
lovely creatures can be just as well in need of the moment and Size of the soul, or virginal
shyness, their frustration over the long Stay outside of its payment bite: he asked her so with
a rather wild Face: "I am your maid also still owe, how much's amounts to, then?"

Whether they concluded from his expression that he is now "the payment would probably be difficult,
or whether something in their heart for him, said the wished only by an act of sacrifice be
able to show him - enough, she knew with such a surprised own naivete Face to take to fold the
hands so modest, so oppressed withdraw that Zerbin himself was misled about it. "You owe me,
sir, how long for -? Hat ?"--" Whence Me not five guilders borrowed from your pay - and after
five more of your good Girlfriend gives ?"--" dream about you. I think the learned gentlemen
."--" I sometimes have symptoms it has to pay you, Mistress. I will put my clock. "- To my readers To
set this behavior like our farmer's wife in a better light, we must Remember that it was the daughter
of one of the richest mayor from a neighboring village, and not so much because of the salary,
but because of old debts that her father, the master of Home, had served with him.
 The laws were too strict, the case clearly, they was beheaded.

She
has until the last moment, the amiable, mild amusement in their faces
even in its entire position in the negligent sinking of her arms and
head; still maintained that characterized her character so well.

She stood there, such as one of the first female professors of Christianity, the humiliation
and torture for their faith looked forward confidently. She turned around often longingly,
as if their eyes under the dense cluster people seeking someone with anxiety. Everyone said
she was looking for her lover, and stood close to her, reassure them they still have in the past
Moments hear a name to express very indistinct, the fierce one Traenenausbruch was accompanied.
She held then a minute hand on his face, which they then, as beside himself, half-handed pass
out to the executioner because she was no longer on the Feet was obtained. He tied the eyes -
and the beautiful soul flew to heaven.

Two or three days was all in the city in dismay, there was talk in all societies nothing but the
beautiful Kindermoerderin.

They wrote poems and essays about this Incident: Zerbin went with all this around in a daze,
the usual fate abgewuerdigter Souls, when they come in extraordinary circumstances. If I were
writing a novel, it would I never dare to close my story with a suicide in order to confirm To
prevent counterfeiting, because after all this string is picked up by an expert hand been. As it
was, I must not remove from my instrument, and what a difference It is not all that under
a suicide, which, through the magic of Raphael's Imagination, was a beautiful act, and promoted
the greatest happiness of the lover, and one who is not, as the just result of a disgraceful
act, and more like a Punishment from heaven, than a false step was considered a lost passion! He
crawled under the weight of his guilt, and he alone of all the accusations be sensed his time relatives
dumb and sinnenlos expected him to slaughter. The following documents, which are in his Desk found,
However, some pity for him to make lively. We do among the characters A and B, according to conjecture
of the time in which they can be typed here . Indenting
 It was indeed seaside house, and is in time The freshness
its old traditions never been so unfaithful that the Navy would have completely neglected, and
never have been so foolish as to be merely continental power to do. Lazio yielded to ship
the most beautiful tribes, which praised the South Italian exceeded by far, and the constantly maintained
in Rome Docks prove itself, that there never has waived forward to have their own fleet. However,
during the dangerous crises which the expulsion of the Kings, the internal shocks in the Roman-Latin
Confederation and the ill-fated war against the Etruscans The Celts were brought about Rome,
the Romans are the state of affairs in the Mediterranean little trouble, and the more decisively
projected direction of the Roman Policy on submission of the Italian continent extinct sea power.
It is up to End of the fourth century (about 350) of little Latin warships mentioned, except
that was sent on a Roman votive offering from the spoils to Delphi veientischen (360 394). The
Antiates course continued their trade with armed vessels, and therefore occasionally to engage
in commercial pirates and the "Tyrrhenian pirate" Postumius have been the Timoleon by 415 (339)
mustered, however, may have been a Antiates, but under the maritime powers of that time they
counted with difficulty and it would have been the case, it would have been situated at the
position Antium to Rome Rome is for nothing less than an advantage. How far it had come around
the year 400 (350) with the decline of Roman naval power, shows the plundering of Latin by a Greek
coasts, probably Sicily Navy in the year 405 (349), while at the same time Celtic pile the Latin
country brand Ulthuan traversed. The following year (406 348), and no doubt under the immediate
effect of this questionable events concluded, the Roman church, and the Phoenicians of Carthage,
on both sides for themselves and their dependent allies, a trade and navigation treaty, the oldest Roman
document of the text, though only in Greek translation, come down to us is ^ 5 The Romans had to
undertake it, the Libyan coast west of Schoenen Headland (Cap Bon), except for emergencies, not to ride,
however, they were given free Transport, like the native of Sicily, as far as Carthaginian, and in
Africa and Sardinia at least the right to challenge the established law in the presence of the Carthaginian
officers and set down by the municipality of Carthage guaranteed purchase price of their goods.
Carthaginians seems at least in Rome conceded to be perhaps in all of Latium free traffic, only
did they undertake, not to rape the dominion of Latin communities, even when they enter the Latin
soil as enemies, would not there lodging take - ie their Seeraeuberzuege not extend into the interior
- not even forts in the Latin country to apply. Probably belongs in the same time also the top
already mentioned agreement between Rome and Taranto, from its time of origin is reported only
that it was completed some time before 472 (282), committed by the same Roemer, is against
what assurances tarentinischerseits not say that the waters east Lakins from the foothills
to drive not, making it so completely from the eastern basin of the Mediterranean Sea were excluded.
----------------------------------------- ^ 5 The evidence that in Polybius (3, 22) shall not
be communicated to the year 245 (509), but the year 406 (348) angehoert is, in the Roman chronology
down to Caesar. 2. Berlin, 1859 edition, P. 320F. Has been given. -----------------------------------------
These were defeats as good as those at the Allia, and the Roman Senate, she felt as such seems and
the favorable turn which the Italian situation soon after the conclusion of the humble Treaties
with Carthage for Rome and Taranto were to have used with all energy to the pressured to improve maritime
position. The most important coast towns were Roman Colonies occupied: the port of Caere, Pyrgi
whose colonization probably in this time falls; also on the West Coast Antium in 415 (339);
Tarracina in 425 (329), the Island of Pontia 441 (313), which, as Ardea and Circeii had already
received earlier colonists all well-known in the field of Seeplaetze Rutuler Volscians and
Latin citizens or colonies were made, further to the field of Aurunci Minturnae Sinuessa and in 459 (295),
in luca African Paestum and Cosa in 481 (273), and the Adriatic littoral and Sena gallica Castrum
novum around the year 471 (283), Ariminum in 486 (268), which must be added immediately after the
the end of the Pyrrhic War was cast joins from Brundisium. In the greater part of these villages,
the mayor or Seekolonien ^ 6, was the young team exempt from service in the legions and only
intended to exercise control over the coastal regions. The Concomitant well-considered preference
for the South Italian Greeks against their Sabellian Neighbors, particularly the sizeable towns
Neapolis, Rhegion, Locri, Thurii, Heraclea and the like and under similar conditions to the
exemption granted by the influx Land army completed the drawn around the coasts of Italy's Roman
power. ----------------------------------------- ^ 6 These were Pyrgi, Ostia, Antium Tarracina,
Minturnae, Sinuessa, Sena gallica and Castrum novum. ----------------------------------------
But with a statesmanlike security, can have of what future generations learn, it recognized the senior
men of the Roman commonwealth, that all these Kuestenbefestigungen Kuestenbewachungen and
inadequate had to stay, if not the Navy of the State respectable again end in a Foot was placed.
There is some reason to be laid after the submission of Antium (416 338) the transfer of useful
war galleys into the Roman docks, and the simultaneous Disposal, however, that the Antiates
everything had included shipping to ^ 7 characterizes with cutting clarity how the Romans to pass out at that time
still lake feels and like totally went up its maritime strategy still in occupying the Kuestenplaetze.
As then the southern Italian Griechenstaedte, first 428 (326) Naples, entered the Roman clientele
made the warships, which each of these cities pledged to the Romans as bundesmaessige provide assistance
to war, to a Roman fleet back at least a beginning. In 443 (311) were further due to a specially so taken
citizenship of two circuit Fleet Men (duoviri navales) appointed, and this worked in the Roman
navy Samnite War with the siege of Nuceria. Perhaps even heard The strange mission a Roman
fleet of 25 sailing to the founding of a colony on Corsica, which Theophrastus in his 446 (308) written
story plant intends, at this time. How little but with all the was reached immediately, shows the annual
448 (306) renewed contract with Carthage. While the relevant provisions of the Treaty, Italy
and Sicily by 406 (348) remained unchanged, was the Romans, besides the navigation of the eastern
waters now allowed on the earlier of the Atlantic ocean, and the trade with the Subjects of Carthage,
in Sardinia and Africa, finally fixing on the likely Corsica prohibited ^ 8, so that only the Carthaginian
Sicily and Carthage even trade their remained open. It can be seen here that the expansion
of the Roman Kuestenherrschaft increasing jealousy of the dominant sea power: they forced the
Romans to their prohibitive to be joined to exclude yourself from the production sites in the
West and the East - In this context, the narrative still heard from the public rewards of Phoenician
Schiffers, the one in the Atlantic Ocean him nachsteuerndes roman vehicle with sacrifice had led his
own on a sand bank - and their navigation of the narrow space of the limit it to the western
Mediterranean with the contract, just not the plunder its coast disclose and the old and important
trade link with Sicily to secure. The Romans had to yield, but they did not depart from the
efforts, her naval affairs from his Impotence seize. A radical measure rule in this sense, the
establishment of the four Flottenquaestoren (quaestores classici) in the year 487 (267), the
first of which in Ostia, the Seaport of Rome, his residence was given the second of Cales, then
the capital of the Roman Campania, from the Campanian and large Greek, the third of Ariminum
to supervise from the trans-Apennine Harbor had, and the district of the fourth is not known.
This new permanent officials were not alone, but yet determined, the Coast on alert and educate them
to protect a navy. The intention of the Roman Senate to regain the independence of the sea and
part of the maritime connections Tarentum to cut to block the next part of Epirus to the Adriatic Sea
fleets, partly to emancipate themselves from the Carthaginian supremacy, is manifest. The already discussed
relationship to Carthage during the last war has it the Italian Marks on. Although forced King
Pyrrhus, the two big cities again - it was the last Time - to conclude an offensive alliance, but
the lukewarmness and perfidy of this alliance, the attempts of the Carthaginians, to establish
themselves in Rhegion and Taranto, the immediate occupation Brundisium by the Romans after
the war clearly show how the mutual Interests have met with each other. ^ 7 -------------------------------------
This information is also determined (Livy 8.14: interdictum mari Antiati populo est) as to be
believable; Antium was not merely because of colonists, but also by the former, in the Hostility
to Rome aufgenaehrten citizenship inhabited. This conflict, however Greek reports that Alexander
the Great († 431 323) and Demetrius the besiegers should have led († 471 283) in Rome about
pirates Antiates complaint. The first But with the Roman embassy to Babylon about the same
shock and perhaps same source. Demetrius sees it more similar to the besiegers, that he is piracy
in the Tyrrhenian Sea, which he has never seen with the eyes, by regulation, abolished, and it is just
unthinkable not mean that as a Roman citizen Antiates their old business yet, despite the ban have
continued under his hand for a while, however, much is also on the second story not to give.
^ 8 after Servius (Aen. 4, 628) was in the Roman-Carthaginian treaties determined that there
should not Romans, Carthage Roman Carthage not enter a floor (rather ) Occupy Corsica but remain
neutral between the two (ut neque Romani ad litora Carthaginiensium accederent ad litora Romanorum neque
Carthaginienses - Corsica esset media inter Romanos et Carthaginienses). This seems to belong
here, and the colonization of Corsica by just this contract have been prevented. Understandably ----------------------------------------
Rome against Carthage was looking at the Hellenic maritime states to base. was with Massalia the
old narrow Freundschaftsverhaeltnis uninterruptedly. The conquest of Rome by Veiis sent an offering
to Delphi there was kept in the Treasury of the Massiliots. After the capture of Rome by the
Celts was in for Massalia collected, irradiated, and the city treasury went ahead, in retaliation
then granted the Roman Senate Massiliots Handelsbeguenstigungen merchants and admitted at the
ceremony of the games on the market next Senatorentribuene of the Massiliots a place of honor
(graecostasis) a. Thither belong that around the year 448 (306) with Rhodes and not long afterwards
with Apollonia, a considerable Mercantile city on the coast Epirots, by the Romans concluded trade and
Freundschaftsvertraege and especially for Carthage very serious approach, which immediately after
the end of the Pyrrhic War between Rome and Syracuse took place. Thus, when the Roman sea power
Although with the tremendous development of the land forces did not step away, and especially
its own navy in the Roemer was not what they according to the geographical and commercial Position
as the state would have to be so caught but also they gradually from the total demise Annulment
to which it about the year 400 (354) had sunk, up elaborate again; and the great resources of Italy's
well-liked the Phoenicians with worried glances pursue these efforts. The crisis over the rule
in the Italian waters was approaching, the fight was decided on land. For the first time, Italy
was under the rule the Roman community united into one state. What political powers while the Roman The
community all of the other Italian withdrew and took in their sole possession, the meaning which
state law is about to connect to this rule of Rome, is never explicitly said, and it lacks even,
calculated in a significant and wise As, for ^ this term to a more generally expressed 9th Demonstrably
belonged only to the war and the contract and the right to mint, so no one Italian community foreign
state declare war or negotiate with him only and no money to beat Courant could, however, each
of the Roman community, adopted a declaration of war and each of their concluded treaty of
right band with all the rest and Italian communities the Roman silver coins in all of Italy was
legally viable, and it is likely that formulated the leading powers of the municipality is not
further extended. However necessarily tied thereto actually much more extensive rights to rule themselves.
------------------------------------------- ^ 9, the clause that the dependent people committed
to "the sovereignty of the Roman-friendly should be valid "(maiestatem populi Romani comite
conservare), however, is the technical Name this mildest Untertaenigkeitsform, but probably would
later be significant only in Time come up (Cic. Balb. 16, 35). The private legal name of clients, so
aptly described it precisely in its vagueness, the ratio (Dig. 49, 15, 7, 1), is been difficult in
earlier times applied officially to the same thing. -------------------------------------------
Specifically, the ratio in which the Italians were leading to the community, a highly unequal,
and in this respect, except the full Roman citizenship, to distinguish three different classes
of subjects. especially those self was so far extended when it was all possible, for without the
notion of an urban community the Roman community completely give up. The old area was mayor until
then mainly Einzelassignation has been growing in such a way that the southern Etruria up against
Caere and Falerii, the Hernik tracks ripped from the Sacco and the anions, the largest Part
of the Sabine countryside and large stretches of the formerly Volscian, especially the pomptinische
Level, converted to Roman peasant land and its inhabitants for the most part, new citizens
districts were established. The same was even with the assigned Capua Falernerbezirke happened
on Volturnus. All those domiciled outside Rome mayor lacked a dedicated Community and its own administration,
to the area emerged assignierten Maximum market town (Fora et conciliabula). In not much different
situation were the basis of the above so-called Seekolonien posted Buerger, which likewise the
full Roman citizenship law remained and their self-government meant little.
 They praise me, what you will, of virtue and wisdom; Virtue is
never planned, but have been difficult execution plans, they may by other be invented.

He turned in Leipzig Gellert first to the professor, which he, through a vivid portrayal his meager
circumstances, and any signs of a good head, then lightly moved that he started him without charge
in the number of his listeners, and it also a Amount of information in the city gave, that he,
as economically, they also paid him were, could deny food and shelter. Gellert's morality was,
as of course, his favorite study; he wrote them word for word, but showed his books to anyone, but if he
was quite familiar by frequent reading was with them, he burned it to fit more better to keep
in memory.

He drove by and by, other sciences, and he succeeded, through its open Head, secret, non-adorned
hard work, and abiding faith in the good outcome of his efforts, that he Gellert by the professor to
guide and mentor of a wealthy young Earl of Denmark could be recommended. He also disputed learned
about a very well-prepared Treatise on the impossibility of finding the quadrature of the
circle, and thus had permission as a master of mathematics, a private college of about twice
the architecture, and read another about the algebra, of which he was a great lover. Besides,
He won the Count, by his natural attachment to him other people, and participating at their
smallest circumstances, all his confidence from.

How slippery but the paths are through life! How close we are often, if we take the safest reached
the summit of our wishes to have mean our ruin! O thou who hast the hearts of people in hands,
have them put on their internal value to the shell: if the best people are often not the case,
to accuse your balance? But you weighing in the Past and into the future, who can right, who
can stand before you? Happy the heart, which, in all apparent injustice of his fate, still
hand can bless that hits him!

Our hero was hitherto his great object moved closer and closer, but he had other Desires, other
desires, which would also be satisfied. He had a crank, for the advantages of the beauty of
extremely sensitive heart. Temperance and health of the body Humanities and had his sense of better
sex nor in all his explosive power obtained, and its moral principles appeared to be wind,
this fire more intense . To blow He was often miserable, so miserable, that he exhausted Wollustdiener
under which his count was also envied for their indifference, and the spirit leaving clear coldness;
But he saw the immense emptiness, the contaminated all their hours, their own pleasure, he saw
how miserable she had to twist and tug to get back even a drop to feel joy in their hearts,
so that comforts him again about his inner suffering, and she made him infinitely valuable.

The
Count Altheim, was recommended for his arrival in Leipzig, in one of the richest bankers been,
who wanted to marry a certain obstinacy never, but, with his only
young and very beautiful sister, a most brilliant in all of Leipzig
led households.

The acquaintance in the house of the Lord's friend laugh (that was the banker), perhaps which
often had ideas Zerbin him with from his previous excesses ladies brought back from possibly infected
calls and the way, he was one of the waxen souls who even have to like attention from others because
they are too comfortable, and at the end are unvermoegend, their mind to do themselves. He
wanted to no man evil, except when he faced it had been applied by others, but then his anger was
also unforgiving, as long as the machine shop of the alien mind that it began to move away, worked.
 

"But in an hour it is night, in which dead weather You can no longer on the remain open road!
"

"The help is liebi God," I heard them say softly.

"Yes, yes," I cried, "and I almost think he even sent me to you!"

It was stronger than the sound of my voice, she had awakened, for she got up and went hesitantly
toward me, with vorgestrecktem neck she approached her face more
and more to mine, their eyes and pressed upon me as if she wanted
me to grasp.

"Paul!" she cried suddenly, like a cry of joy and the words flew from her breast - "Yes Tues Paul sends me the
Good Lord! "

Where I had my eyes! Since I had it so again, my Kindsgespiel, the
little puppet-Lisei!

Of course, a nice slim virgin, it had become, and the usually smiling
face Children was now, after the first joy darueberhin jet flown,
the expression of deep sorrow.

"How do you get so lonely here, Lisei?" I asked. "What happened? Where is your father?"

"In prison, Paul."

"Your father, the good man - but come with me, I stand here with a good woman in labor; she
knows you, I have often told her of you. "

And hand in hand, as once as children, we went to the house of my good master, the We have looked
forward from the window. "The Lisei it is!" I cried when we entered the room, "Just think,
Mistress, the Lisei!"

The good woman put her hands together over her chest.

"Holy Mother of God, pray for us! the Lisei - so shall have been looking's - But, "she continued,"
because you feel like with together since the old sinner "- and she
pointed with an outstretched finger to the prison home Over There
- "the Paulsen I did say that you people are honest child!"

A moment later the girl but she moved further into the room and pressed them in their Chair down,
and when now Lisei to answer her question was started, they have their a steaming cup of coffee
to his lips.

"Now, take a drink," she said, "and only come back to you, the hands are you so very verklommen.
"

And drink the Lisei had, with her two bright tears rolled into the cup, and only then she could
tell.

She said not now, as always and as before, in the solitude of her grief, in the dialect their home,
only a slight hint of it had remained, because her parents were also not to come down to our
coast, so they had to but mostly in the middle Germany stopped.

Several years ago the mother had died. "Trust the Father not, "she had her daughter at the last
moment even whispered in his ear," his child's heart is too good
for this world. "

Lisei broke at the memory into violent weeping,
not even on the wanted again new fully donated drinking cup, with
which the master intended to breastfeed their tears, and only after
a considerable time continue to report they could.

Immediately after
the death of the mother it was her first work in place of the to have
women's roles in the puppet shows teach by her father. In between
were the Funeral ceremonies and the first concern for masses for the
dead read, then, the fresh grave leaving behind, were driven into
father and daughter turn into the country and had, as before, their
pieces played: the prodigal son, the Saint Genevieve, and how hot
they might otherwise have.

So they were yesterday came on the trip
in a big church village, where their lunch break had held. What it does, too? If it must die, it is better It is the
same Thue and reduce the surplus population. "

Scrooge lowered his head to hear his own words of the spirit, and
felt that Remorse and pain overwhelmed.

"Man," said the spirit, "if you have a human heart and no stone guard, so up to speak, so hypocritical,
that you know what and where is this abundance. Want to decide which people live, what men
shall die? Perhaps you are in the eyes of the Heaven unworthy and unable to live than millions
like this poor man's child.

O God, the creeping things on the sheet on the many survivors among his hungry brothers to hear talk
in the dust! "

Scrooge took charge of the mind through humble and cast down her eyes, but he looked quickly back
into the air as he heard his name.

"It's Mr. Scrooge lives," said Bob, "Mr. Scrooge, the creator of this
festival!

"

"The creator of this festival, really," Mrs. Cratchit said with a
glowing face.

"I wish I had him here.

I wanted to give cost him a piece of my mind and I hope they would taste it. "

"Dear wife," said Bob, the Children! - It's Christmas. "

"Of course it must be Christmas," she said, "if the health of so vile, miserly, unfeeling man
as Scrooge is possible to drink. And you know, Robert, that he It is, nobody knows better
than you! "

"Dear wife," replied Bob mild, "it's Christmas."

"I want to drink his health to please you and the parties," said Mrs. Cratchit, "not because of
him. May he live long! A merry Christmas and a Happy New Year! - It will be very happy and very
happy, believe me, "The children drank the health. after her. It was the first thing they heard that
night without warmth and heat. Tiny Tim drank it last, but he gave a damn about it. Scrooge was
the bugbear of the Family. The mention of his name cast a gloomy shadow over all, the full five
Minutes to the disappearance needed.

As he left, they were ten times merrier than before, if only because they Scrooge, the Terrible,
were going on. Bob Cratchit told them how he had a job for Mr. Peter promised that these are
normally five and a half shillings contribute weekly. The two small Cratchit laughed terribly
at the thought Petern to see a business man, and Peter himself looked
thoughtfully out from between his collar in the fire, when he went
to think in which shares would he invest his savings when he was in
possession of this incredible Fee would come.

Martha, who was at a milliner's assistant, told them what to work now they do and how many hours
they must work in good time and how it tomorrow early sleep off remember, for tomorrow was
for them a holiday. She also told how they saw a few days, a countess and a lord and that the Lord
almost as tall as Peter had been in what words Peter pulled his shirt collar so high in the
air that he be Head between them disappeared. During all this time were the chestnuts and
the punch around and in between Tiny Tim sang his plaintive voice
of a song by a child, what run in the snow, and sang it very nicely.

In all this was nothing special. There were no pretty faces in the family, they were not dressed
up, her shoes were nothing less than watertight, and their clothes were poor, and Peter might well
know the inside of a Pfandleiherladens. But they were happy thankful for their modest pleasures,
agree with each other and happy, and when their Forms and faded in the outgoing light the torch
of the mind even happier looked like Scrooge's eyes still lingered on them and especially on Tiny
Tim.

It was now dark and there was a heavy snow, and as Scrooge and the
Spirit walked through the streets, was the splendor of the roaring
fire in the kitchen, cleaning rooms and all Type chambers wonderful
beyond measure.

Here was the flickering flame of the preparations an intimate meal, the hot plate, as it appears
from the fire warmed through and through and provides the dark red curtains, to exclude cold and
night. There were all children snow out of the house on the street, her married sisters, brothers,
cousins, Bases, uncles and aunts, contrary, to greet first. This was a reflection on the windows
Shadow of the assembled guests, and there a group of pretty girls in fur collar and fur boots, all talking
at once and hurried to a neighbor's house in easy steps. Woe to the bachelors, they saw happen
very hot, and the little witch knew this very well!

If you would depend on the number of people want to judge, to the friendly visit hurried, one
might have thought no one was there to welcome them. But instead expected of each and every
guest house fires blazed the flame. How the spirit was happy! as he bared his chest and his hands
full aufthat and then floated liberally his cheerful and harmless pleasure distributing more
than anything in his reach! Even the lantern man which ran through the dark streets to brighten
their dull mist with light spots and who was already plastered to spend the evening somewhere,
laughed out loud, as the Spirit hovered over.

And now, without the mind before something would have said, they stood on a barren, desolate Heath
where huge boulders were scattered about, as would be the burial
site of Giant, and water spread, where it had only desire - or would
it have done if It did not catch the frost, and nothing grew there,
as moss and undergrowth and hard, -pointed grass.

Deep in the West had the setting sun glowing a strip of red left of looked down a moment on the
barren steppe, like an angry eye and sank deeper and deeper, until he lost in the dark of deepest
night.

"What is this place?" Asked Scrooge.

"A place where miners work in the depths of the earth," replied the
spirit.

"But they know me. Look! "

A light shone from the window of a hut and they floated quickly toward it. It was here they sit
a happy society to a warm fire. An old, old man and a gray-haired woman with her children and grandchildren
and great-grandchildren, all in festive clothes.

The old man sang with a voice that is rarely the howling of the wind on the desert drowned,
a Christmas song; It had already been a very old song when he was still a boy, and fell from
time to time them all in a chorus. And always like their voices were heard, the old man was alive
and noisy; and always, as they stopped, his strength decreased again.

The spirit lingered here, but bade Scrooge, to stick to his clothes. You hovered over the desert,
but where? but not the sea? The sea! saw to his horror Scrooge disappear behind the country, and
his ear was deafened by the thunder of the waves, as among the gray border caves, which they
had taken their toll, howled and roared and raged and sought to undermine with wild wrath the earth.

On
a lonely, half-submerged rock in the water, perhaps a mile from the landing, stood a lonely
lighthouse. The whole dreary year through expanded and Toste him
the waves.

Large Piles of sea grass surrounding his foot and storm birds - born of the winds, could not
believe it, like seaweed on the waves - rose up and fell to its tip, as the surging Waves below,
on which they sailed.

But even here, the two tower guards had lit a fire, which through the peephole threw in the
thick stone wall, a bright shiny stripes on the night sea. The hard hands are sufficiently above
the table where they sat, they wanted a Merry Christmas and met with the Groggläsern important,
and one of the two, the elder moreover, with a face of the storm and weather tanned and wrinkled,
like the Gallionbild an old ship, agreed to a powerful song that sounded like a hurricane.

Again, the spirit hovered over the lake dunkelwogende then, on and on until, far from any coast,
as the Spirit said to Scrooge, sank in a ship. They were beside the helmsman at the wheel, the
lookout forward, in addition to the officers who guard the had. Like dark, ghostly figures
that stood at their posts, but each of them hummed a Christmas song, or had a Christmas thought,
or spoke too softly his comrades from a previous Christmas Eve and native hopes to it were placed.
And each one on board, waking or sleeping, good or bad, had that days had a warm word for his comrades,
than on any other day of the year and celebrated at least some measure
him, and had thought of that which is now in its remotely resembled
and had known that she now thought of his kind.

A great surprise it was for Scrooge, as he listened to the moaning of the wind and thought, how
awful it would be so, by the bleak night over an unknown abyss, to
the secrets harbored so deep as death, ship, and a great surprise
it was for Scrooge said, I suddenly heard a hearty laugh.

Was even more Scrooge Surprise when he saw it the laughter of his own nephew, and in a bright,
comfortably warm room again found, while the mind was at his side
and with applause, mild smile on that same nephew looked down.

"Haha," laughed Scrooge's nephew. "Hahaha!"

If known by a very unlikely chance someone has a man who is happier feel, to laugh, as Scrooge's
nephew, so I can only say, I would like to know him well.

Provides myself to him before and I'll cultivate his friendship.

It's a fair and beautiful arrangement that, as illness and grief is contagious, also in the
whole wide world there is nothing so irresistible contagious as laughter and gaiety.

As Scrooge's nephew laughed and held his stomach and shook his head,
and the most remarkable Made faces, laughed Scrooge's niece (by marriage)
as heartily as he.

And the assembled Friends do not fall foul, in the laughing chorus.

"Haha! Haha! Ha ha! "

He said Christmas would be foolish, as I live, "cried Scrooge's nephew. "He believes it, too.
"

"The shame is greater for him, Fritz," said Scrooge indignantly niece.

God bless the women! You never do anything halfway, you are always in earnest.

She was pretty, very pretty. She had a sweet, mischievous face, a fresh small mouth that seemed made
to kiss - as he was, without doubt, all types dear little dimple to the chin, which flowed into
one another when she laughed, and the sonnenhellste Pair of eyes,
which was ever seen.

Yes, she was charming, lovable, adorable.

"It's a funny old fellow," said Scrooge's nephew, "that's true, and
not so pleasant could be like him, but his mistakes punish yourself
and I'm not blaming him.

"

He must be very rich, Fred, "said Scrooge's niece. "At least you say it always."

"What is that to us, love," said Scrooge's nephew. "His wealth is of no use to him. He does nothing
good with it. He does not even own life so pleasant.

He has not the pleasure to think - hahaha - that he will make it a joy to us at the end. "

"I
have no patience Scrooge with him," observed did not.

The sister of Scrooge's niece and all the other ladies were of the same opinion.

"Oh, I'm patient," said Scrooge's nephew.

"I am sorry for it, I could not be angry at him be, even if I tried. Who suffers from his bad mood?
He himself, further no one. Now he has set his mind to suffer us not to can not and will our
Accept invitation to dinner. What is the consequence? He does not lose much of our Eating.
"

"Well, I mean, he loses a very good food," interrupted Scrooge's niece. The other said the same
thing and you could deny them the skills, not because they eat just left off and now sat at the dessert
by lamplight around the fireplace.

"Well, I am glad to hear it," said Scrooge's nephew, "because I have no great confidence in
These young housewives have. What do you say, Topper? "

Quite plainly it was, Topper had his eye on one of the Sisters of
Scrooge's niece, because he, an old bachelor was a wretched, homeless
man who is not right have to express an opinion on this subject, in
which words, the sister of Scrooge's niece - the thickness of the
lace collar, not with the rose in her hair - was red.

"Go on, go, Fritz," said Scrooge's niece, clapping her hands. "He brings to never Finish what
he started! He is such a foolish fellow. "

Scrooge's nephew reveled in another laugh, and it was impossible to get from the infection to
keep away, even though the plump sister tried it with quatre voleurs = =: be Example was imitated
unanimously.

"I just wanted to say," said Scrooge's nephew, 'that the result of his displeasure at us and his
Refusal to us to be happy, which is that he loses some pleasant moments,
that would not harm him.

Certainly he loses more pleasant conversation, when his own thoughts in his musty old or in his
counting-house type. I think give him the opportunity to do every year, whether he likes it or
not, because he takes me. He may grumble about Christmas until he dies, but he must at last it better
Think when he sees me every year come in a good mood to it, with the words: Uncle Scrooge, how
are you? If he only inspires the idea of ​​his poor servants fifty pounds to leave, so that's at
least something, and I think I caught him yesterday. "

It was now laughing at them the series, with the thought that he had packed Scrooge. But as
he good-naturedly through and through and was not cared much about about what they were laughing,
if they only ever laughed, he fell into her happiness and could perk up the bottle go around.

After
tea was music. For they were a musical family and knew what they
were doing, when they sang a Glee or Catch, you can count on you,
especially Topper, of the bass was buzzing from a score without the
large veins swelled on his forehead, or his face was red. Scrooge's
niece played the harp quite well, and played under other pieces, a
little ditty (a mere nothing, If you had her there in two minutes
whistle learned) that the child was brought from the Scrooge out of
school was, as it The spirit of Christmas past had shown, had often
sung. As Scrooge this Song was heard, everything that had shown him
the Spirit again in his soul, he was softer and softer and thought
if he had years ago can often hear, he would have the enjoy pleasant
side of life can be without first spade of the sexton, the Jacob Marley
was buried, having to take refuge.

But she does not devote the whole
evening of music. After a while they started game of forfeits to,
because it is good to be a child sometimes, and especially at Christmas,
when the founder of this Festival was a child herself. But wait, first
they played blind man's buff. And I think as little that Topper was
really blind than I believe he had eyes in his boots had. I guess
it was between him and Scrooge's nephew, collusive and the spirit
of Christmas this year knew. The way he followed the plump sister
in the lace collar was an insult of human credulity. Where she went,
he was also upset the fire-irons, on Chairs tripping, run up to the
piano, is confusing in the curtains. He always knew where the plump
sister was. If someone had fallen on him, as some did, or had placed
before him, he would have done when he was trying to take it, would
be but immediately reversed, the big sister to. Right at the beginning
of acquaintance, less out of kindness or passion than from the need to his new to enjoy happiness
in the most undisturbed way Alfred had caused the mistress, her give up a respectable position
as a correspondent in Vienna department store. But after he is a considerable time, grateful
of her affection, wrapped in the most convenient had found common enjoyment of freedom better
than in any previous relationship, He now began to feel it rise to that well-known promising
unrest, as it usually was to announce the imminent end of a love relationship, an end that only
in this Case seemed not at present be foreseen. Already he saw himself in the spirit as fellow
sufferers a childhood friend who ends up, years ago in a compound of a similar nature, now
as to lead listless father a retired, limited life was forced; and many hours to it without
intimations of this kind on the side of a graceful and gentle Being, as it was Elise, a pleasure
would have to grant began his boredom and to put pain. Well it was the ability and what he might
still count higher let the self-respect, Elise notice of such moods nothing, after all, but had
to the effect, often visit him again the sociability of those middle-class circles , Where he
can in the course of last year, had almost completely alienated. And when him on the occasion of
a dance party a much sought-after young lady, the daughter of a wealthy factory owner, entgegenkam
with remarkably friendly, and he suddenly so the slight possibility of a compound saw before
him that his position and his wealth was appropriate, he began that others, who started as
a cheerful casual adventure to feel as an annoying ankle, a young man to shake off the safe
of its benefits expected. But the smiling calm with the Elise received him again and again, its
always consistent Dedication in becoming sparser hours of being together, the unsuspecting
security, with him from her arms into a world unknown to her, dismissed all this he did not press
only each time the parting word from his lips, to which he was always determined before believed, but filled
him with a sort of agonizing pity, given very little conscious expressions such a warm trusting
woman like Elise just as a new and more intimate token of his affection had to appear. And so it
was then that Elise never felt hot adored by him as when he spoke of a new encounter with Adele,
when shaken by the memory of süßfragender Looks auspicious handshakes and more recently the noise
of the first secret bride kisses in that silence, he alone, and his faithless love, dedicated
home was returned, and instead with the farewell, which he still carried on the threshold, leaving
the beloved Alfred each morning with renewed vows eternal, a party.

For days this would be contrary by both adventure and at last only remained to decide which Evening
for the debate has become inevitable with Elise would be better selected, before or after the
engagement with the needle; and the first of these evenings, as were
yet shall be before him, was Alfred appeared in a game through the
habit of his almost double reassured of soul in the beloved.

 In the same sense intended the Roman Kalenderverbesserer among other maintenance
of the current calendar in two of the four year leap years Cycle is not the leap month, but shorten
the two February at seven days, so To set this month in leap years instead of 29 and 28 to 22
and 21 days. Solo mathematical Thoughtlessness and theological concerns, including the consideration for
the same in the February days in question fall hard years of the term slump, the proposed
reform in the way that the leap year in February but 24 - and 23taegig was, therefore, the new
Roman Solar year, in fact, to 366 ¼ days got along. Some relief from this for the following practical
Uebelstaende was found that, under the elimination in the recently become so uneven Months no longer
applicable account in months or ten months of the calendar, it is got used, where it arrived on more
detailed, after-month period of a solar year of 365 days, or the so-called ten monthly years
count of 304 days. This came about particularly for farming purposes on the Egyptian solar year
365 ¼ days days of Eudoxus (Flourished 386 368) calendar Bauer founded in Italy in early use.
------------------------------------------- ^ 10 Litterator Grammaticus and behave much like
teachers and Maître, the latter Appointment comes after the older language only the teacher of Greek, not the their mother
tongue. Litteratus is younger and does not include the schoolmaster, but the educated man ^
11 It is surely a Roman image, which Plautus (Bacch. 431) as a piece of the good old parenting
quotes: what if you came to home, in the jacket on the stool you were sitting down to the teacher;
And when he read the book you missed a syllable, he'll hump your Colorized colorful as a Kinderlatz.
------------------------------------------- A higher notion of what were able to afford in these
subjects, the Italians, GRANT the works of the mechanical sciences closely related to the
construction and Visual arts. Although unusual phenomena actually meet here not, but if by the stamp of the borrowing, which
the Italian is pressed on plastic consistency, the artistic interest in it falls, so attached to
the historic all the more vivid to the same in that they partly from an otherwise lost Voelkerverkehr
the most remarkable Evidence preserved, partly in the almost complete destruction of the history
of nichtroemischen Italians almost alone look at the different tribes of the peninsula in a lively
activity next to each other is. New is not to say here, but probably can be a sharper Determination
and execute on a wider basis, which was shown earlier that the Greek inspiration, the Etruscans
and the Italians from different sides recorded conversant, and there a rich and luscious, here, where at
all, a clear and intimate Art has launched. How completely the Italic architecture of all landscapes
have was penetrated in its most ancient period of Hellenic elements, is shown earlier been. The
walls, the water projects, the pyramidal covered graves, the Tuscan Temples are not or are
not essentially different from the oldest Hellenic buildings. From a development of the architecture
for the Etruscans during this period has no Marker of, we meet here is neither a front nor
a significantly new original Creation - we should have to do Prachtgraeber expect then, as
described by Varro so-called Tomb of the Porsena in Chiusi, which vividly the purposeless and strange
glory the Egyptian pyramids recalls. Also, we moved to Lazio during the first half Centuries of
the republic, only in the most recent tracks, and it's already been said been sunk that with
the introduction of the Republic of the Kunstuebung rather than risen. It is from this period no
other architecturally significant buildings to Latin significant than the annual 261 (493) in
Rome on Circus built Ceres, in the Empire considered a model of the Tuscan style. But come towards
the end of this period a new Ghost in the Italic and especially the Roman building: it begins the
great bow making. Although we are not entitled to declare the arch and the vault for Italic inventions.
It is well settled that in the era of the Genesis of Hellenic architecture the Greeks the sheets
have not known for its temples and therefore the flat ceiling and the sloping roof had enough:
but very well, the wedge section, a younger, from the rational his mechanics emerged invention
of the Greeks, like him because the Greek tradition the physicists Democritus (294-397 460-357)
back to. This priority of the Hellenic Bowyer before the Roman is also compatible with what
is often assumed, perhaps rightly is that the main vault at the Roman sewer, one that over the old,
pyramidal Capitoline originally covered spring house later became strained, the oldest buildings are
preserved, has come in which the arch principle applies; because it is more than likely that these
structures arc not the king, but the Republican period, and all belonged to the king one time
you are only flat or Roof overhangs has known. But, as we also discussed the invention of the
bow itself may think the application is everywhere in the large and at least mainly in architecture
as important as establishing the principle, and the respect owed to the Romans undisputed. begins with
the fifth century the much founded on the bow gate, bridge and water line construction, which is
the Roman name henceforth inseparably. Related is hereby nor the development of the non-Greeks,
the Romans, however, preferably at popular, especially for the worship peculiar to them, especially
not the Greek of Vesta, the applied form of the round temple and the dome roof ^ 12 -----------------------------------------
^ 12 A replica of the oldest house form, as has been meant, the circular temple safely not,
but the construction is quite out of square. The later Roman theology links that form around the
idea of ​​the planet or the central sun of the spherical surrounding space (Fest. v. rutundam
p. 282; Plut Num 11;.. Ov almost 6, 267F..), in fact, is due to the same well the simple fact
that for the storage and the Abhegen certain premises as the most comfortable as the safest form
the circular always been regarded added. Based on the round Schatzhaeuser the Greeks as well
as the rotunda of the Roman Pantry or Penatentempels, it was of course also the fire - this means
the altar of Vesta - and the fire chamber - that is the Temple of Vesta - about to set, so well
as with the cistern and the well version (puteal) happened. The rotunda itself graecoitalisch is
like that of the chamber and Quadratbau own, such as this the house; but the architectural and religious development
of the simple to the circular Tholos temple with Pillars and columns is Latin. ----------------------------------------
Something similar like some of the child, but not about unimportant skills in this area . Shall
Of originality or even Kunstuebung can be no question, but also festgefuegten from the stone slabs
of the Roman roads, highways from their indestructible, from the broad, sounding hard bricks,
the mortar of their eternal building speaks the indestructible Solidity, the energetic efficiency
of the Roman system. As the tectonic, and possibly even more, the visual arts and signing on Italian
soil is not so much by Greek excitation fertilized than germinated from Greek Samenkoernern. That
the same, although only the younger sister of architecture, at least in Etruria already during
King of the Romans began to develop in time, has already been noticed; their main Development,
however, belongs in Etruria, and the more Lazio, this era, as already it is apparent with
evidence that in those landscapes, which the Celts and the Samnites the Etruscans in the fourth
century wrested from Etruscan Kunstuebung almost no track meets. The Tuscan plastic threw himself
first and foremost at work in clay, copper and gold, which substances rich clay deposits and
copper mines and offering the trade the Etruscan artists. From Schwunghaftigkeit, which the
Tonbildnerei was run, witness the immense masses of relief and statutory boards Work of fired
clay, which walls, gables and roofs of Etruscan temples to Identification of the remaining ruins
were once decorated, and the distribution of such demonstrable Work from Etruria to Lazio. The copper casting
was not behind it back. Etruscan Artists ventured to the making of colossal, up to fifty feet high
bronze statue, and Volsinii, the Etruscan Delphi, to around the year 489 (265) two thousand bronze
statues have been, while the Steinbildnerei in Etruria, as well anywhere else, much later began
and restrained except internal causes by the lack of a suitable material was - the lunensischen
(Carrara) Marmorbrueche had not opened. Who the rich and delicate gold jewelry of the suedetruskischen
Graeber has seen that is the message not incredible find that the Tyrrhenian gold shells themselves
were estimated in Attica. The stone-carving art was, although she is younger, diverse but also
in Etruria practiced. As dependent on the Greeks, by the way the visual artists completely equal,
were both in the outline drawing on metal, as in the monochromatic mural extremely mothods Etruscan
artist and painter. We hereby compare the area of ​​the actual Italians, it seems, first against
the Etruscan abundance almost kunstarm. Alone closer inspection, one can not escape the perception
that both the Sabellian as the Latin nation far more than the Etruscan ability and skill for the art
must have had. Although to really sabelle area in Sabina, in the Abruzzo, Samnium in themselves
works of art are almost not at all lacking, and even coins. Those Sabellian tribes, however, which
reached the coasts of the Tyrrhenian and Ionian seas, have the Hellenic art not only as the
Etruscans Externally acquired, but they more or less fully acclimatized to himself. Even in Velitrae where
well alone Later in the landscape of the erstwhile Volscians whose language and peculiarity is have
claimed, have painted terracotta found by living and peculiar Treatment. Lucania in southern Italy
is indeed a slight degree of Hellenic art been taken, but in Campania, as in the board's land
have Sabellians and Hellenes as in language and nationality so penetrated completely even and especially
in art and especially the Campanian and Bruttian coins are consistent with the simultaneous
Greek so completely on one line of the art treatment that only the words they are of them different.
Less well known but no less certain is it that even well-to Lazio Artistic heritage and the
arts crowd, but not in artistry and Kunstuebung back behind Etruria. Obviously, the at the beginning
of the 5th Century was fixing the Romans in Campania, the transformation of the city of Cales
in a Latin community, the landscape at Falernian Capua, a Roman citizen in the district, first the Campanian
Kunstuebung the Romans open-minded. Although wrong with them not only the luxuriant in the
Etruria kept busy Lapidary art and completely met no trace that the Latin equivalent trades Etruscan
goldsmiths and pottery have been for the work abroad. Although are the Latin temple overloaded
not just with the Etruscan bronze and Tonzierat, the Latin Graeber not like the Etruscan gold
jewelry and was angefuellt the walls that glittered not like the colorful paintings of Etruscan.
But none the less was raised throughout the scale to the benefit of the Etruscan nation. The invention
of the Janus image, which may as the deity of the Latins themselves to be settled is not awkward,
and original way than any of the Etruscan art. The nice group of wolf with the twins probably
leans on similar inventions at Greek, but in this Safe execution if not in Rome, but invented
by Romans, and it is remarkable to occur first on the coined by the Romans in Campania and
for silver coins. In the above mentioned Cales seems soon after its founding a particular
genre figured pottery to have been invented, with the name of the Master and Verfertigungsorts
been identified and widely distributed as far as Etruria is inside. The recently meet on the
Esquiline Hill have come to light figured altars of burnt clay in the arrangement as the ornaments just
like the votive offerings of the Campanian Temple. However this does not exclude that even
Greek masters who worked for Rome. The sculptor Damophilos that with the painted clay figures
Gorgasos for the ancient Temple of Ceres has manufactured, does not seem to have been other than the
teacher of Zeuxis, Philos Demo of Himera (around 300 450). On instructive are those branches of
art, in which our part to old products, is named in part after his own experience a comparative
sentence. From Latin works in stone is little else left but at the end of this period in Doric
style carved stone sarcophagus of the Roman consul Lucius Scipio, but the noble Simplicity ashamed
of it all similar Etruscan works.
 The
same as any similar Willkuerregiment has benefited a lot and hurt a lot, and it should not
be objected to, the loss for the predominantly holds, only it must not be forgotten that the although
outwardly, but lean and energetic morality and the enormous fueled citizenship, which refer to this
time really right, the really nasty abuse but from these institutions stayed away and, if the
individual Freedom has been kept down mainly by them, the vast and often violent The maintenance
of common sense and good old order and morality in the Roman community based precisely on these institutions.
In addition, power in the Roman legal development but slowly, but clearly enough a humanizing and
modernizing tendency asserted itself. Most provisions of the Twelve Tables, which Convention
with the Solon Law and kept so by reason for material innovations allowed to use the stamps; thus
securing the free association rights and the autonomy of the clubs so incurred; the rule on
the border strip, which defended the Abpfluegen and the mitigation of the punishment the theft by
the non-thief caught red-handed henceforth by power of could solve double replacement of the challenger.
The law of obligations was in a similar sense, However, only about a century later, tempered
by the Poetelische law. The free Determination of the assets, which the Lord the same with the
oldest lifetime after Roman law was granted, but for the death had been previously linked to the
consent of the community, was also exempt from this limit by the Zwoelftafelgesetz or its interpretation
of the private Testament ascribed the same power that that of the Kurien approached both confirmed
and it was this is an important step towards the demolition of the gender associations Full
implementation of the Individual and Freedom in Vermoegensrecht. The absolute terrible paternal power
was limited by the requirement that the father sold three times by the Son no longer fall
back into the violence, but from then on should be free; what soon angeknuepft Rechtsdeduktion the opportunity
- through - indeed taken strictly perverse was that the father voluntarily over the rule issued by
the son's emancipation. In matrimonial law, civil marriage was allowed, and if just use the right
civic necessary as with the religious right before the full glorious force was linked, so
was still in closed without the acceptance of such violence related to marriage instead of the first
Beginning to relax the full power of the husband's. The beginning of a legal coercion to separation
is the Hagestolzensteuer (aes uxorium), but with their introduction Camillus Censor in 351 (403)
his public career began. More sweeping changes than the law itself suffered the politically
more important and generally Mutable Disciplinary Regulations. Above all, there is the important
restriction of the upper judiciary by the legal record of land rights and the obligation of the
officials, not now more after the shaky tradition, but according to the written letters in
civil as to decide in criminal proceedings (303, 304, 451, 450). The establishment of an exclusively
for the administration of justice, Business and Roman officials in Upper 387 (367) and at the same time took
place in Rome and Rome's influence in all Latin communities counterfeit foundation a special
Polizeibehoerde increased the speed and security of justice. This Police men or aediles was
of course also to a certain jurisdiction, so far it partly for the closed to open market sales,
therefore, especially for the livestock Sklavenmaerkte and the ordinary civil judges were, in
part, as a rule it was they who in the Buss and Bruechverfahren as judges of first instance or,
in Roman law the same, acted as public prosecutor. As a result, was the handling of the Bruechgesetze
and the equally vague and politically important at all Bruechrecht mainly in her hand. Similar
but less orderly and directed especially against the small people Functions were the first 465
(289) appointed three night or blood men (viri tres nocturni or capital): they were during the
night the fire and security police and the Supervision over assigned the executions, followed by
very soon, perhaps even from home has developed from a certain summary jurisdiction ^ 1 With
the increasing expansion the Roman community was at last, some with consideration for the court requirement,
necessary in the more remote villages own, at least for the smaller civil matters sit down
competent judges, what was for the passive citizen communities generally, but perhaps even in
the more remote communities extend full citizenship was ^ 2 - the first beginnings of a in addition
to actually developing Roman-Roman municipal jurisdiction. -------------------------------------------------
^ 1 The earlier assertion that these three men all belonged already the oldest time is therefore
erroneous, because the oldest colleges of state officers to an odd number of stranger are (Roman
chronology down to Caesar. edition for Berlin 1859, p. 15, n. 12). Probably is the well-authenticated
message that they were appointed first 465 (289) (Livy Ep. 11) easy to hold and otherwise questionable
deduction of Forgery Licinius Macer (With Liv. 7, 46), which in front of 450 (304) does mention,
just discard. Initially, have no doubt, as this had been for most of the later case, the magistrates
minores , the three men appointed by the chief officers; papir the plebiscite, the appointing transferred to the same county (Festus p.
344 M. v. sacramentum), is in any case, as it is called the Praetor qui inter civis ius dicit, after
setting up the Fremdenpraetur, So the earliest towards the middle of the 6th Century adopted.
^ 2 leads to it, what Liv. 9, 20 on the reorganization of the colony Antium reported twenty years
after its foundation; and it is clear in that if we impose the Ostiense very well, it was
his Rechtshaendel all in Rome to make it for places like Antium Sena is executable and not
left. ------------------------------------------------ In the Civil Procedure, which, however,
after The terms of this time, most single lock against fellow citizens committed crimes, was the
well has previously used division of the process in determining the legal question before the
magistrate (ius) and the same decision by a magistrate appointed by a private citizen (Iudicium),
with abolition of the monarchy statutory provision, and this separation has the Roman private
law, its logical and practical sharpness and precision significantly to Thanks ^ 3 In the process
the property was previously the absolute arbitrariness of officials given prey Decision on the
subject gradually acquis legal rules and adjacent to the The ownership of property developed, so once
again force the City Council an important Falls by some of their power. In criminal proceedings,
the People's Court, the former Mercy to legally secure court of appeal. Was the defendant
under interrogation (quaestio) by the official convicted and appealed to the burgesses, so step
the City Council before that to the Weiterverhoer (anquisitio), and when he is confronted
by three-time negotiation had repeated the town of its award, the fourth event was the verdict
of the burgesses confirmed or rejected. Mitigation was not allowed. Republican breathe the same
sense the sentences that the House protect the citizen and only outside the house, an arrest
can take place and that to avoid the detention and each accused and even to allow citizens not convicted,
whether by surrender of his civil rights consequences the condemnation, if they did not affect
the assets, but the person to escape - Phrases that have been formulated but not by law and
accusing officials therefore not legally bound, but by their moral pressure especially for the
restriction have been the death of the greatest influence are. However, when the Roman criminal
law for the strong sense as citizens for the growing humanitarian efforts of this era of remarkable
Testimony, however, it suffered almost here, especially among the most harmful continuing
effects staendischen struggles. The resulting from these competing criminal jurisdiction First Instance
of all municipal officials was the reason that in the Roman criminal procedure Instruktionsbehoerde
a fixed and a serious preliminary investigation from now on no longer existed; and by the criminal
sentence of last resort in the forms and by the institutions of law was found, also originated
from the clemency proceedings never denied, over this nor the treatment of police buses on the
outwardly very similar criminal proceedings adversely affected back, was not abusive, but sort of
constitutionally the decision not to criminal cases in the law firm, but by the arbitrary Discretion
of the judges like it. In this way, was the Roman criminal procedure completely herabgewuerdigt unprincipled
and a pawn and a tool of political parties, what to can be excused so since this method, preferably
for real political crimes, but also for others, such as for murder and arson was implemented.
Then there was the cumbersome process of that, which, together with the Republican arrogant
contempt for the non-citizen is in debt to that one more and more used to, a summary criminal proceedings
against police, or rather slaves to tolerate low and people find that formal. Here, too, crossed the passionate
Dispute over the political processes that bring about natural boundaries and led institutions,
have contributed significantly to the Romans gradually the idea of ​​a fixed moral Legal wean.
---------------------------------------------- ^ 3 It is customary the Roemer to praise than
to law privileged people and their excellent legal to gaze as a mystical gift of heaven, probably
more to the shame of save over the worthlessness of his own legal status. A view of the unprecedented
fluctuating and undeveloped Roman criminal law could from the inconsistency of this unclear ideas
to convince even those who seem to just want the record, that healthy people have a right to healthy
and a sick a sick. Apart from general state relations, of which the jurisprudence precisely
and also it depends, above all, are the reasons for the excellence of the Roman civil law,
mainly in two things: one is that the plaintiff and the defendant were forced, especially the
requirement and also to motivate the objection in binding fashion, and to formulate and secondly
the fact that we ordered for the legal training of law this is a permanent body and the practice
directly relates to. With that cut the Romans the advocatory pettifogging, with the Gesetzmacherei
from the incompetent, as far as can be cut like, and together with the two do meet, as far as possible,
the two contradictory requirements, that the law is always tight and that it always will be a
contemporary edge. ---------------------------------------------- Less we are capable of continuing
the Roman religious ideas in this to track time. In general, it was simply determined by the
simple piety of the But, as the ancestors and the disbelief away in the same way. How alive
the idea of ​​spirituality all flesh, which was based on the Roman religion, yet at the end
of this period was proving but it was probably the result of the introduction of the silver Courants
in 485 (269) new God created "Silberich (Argentinus), the older natuerlicherweise of God"
Kupferich " (Aesculanus) son. The foreign relations are the same as they used to, but even here
and especially the Hellenic influence is increasing. Only now begin the Hellenic Gods in Rome itself to
rise temple. The oldest was the Temple of Castor, which at the Battle of Lake Regillischen praised
and 15 will be in July 269 (485) opened. The story which follows on the same that two large and
beautiful about human Juengling on the battlefield in the ranks of the Romans fight at and immediately
after the battle their welded called mares on the Roman market at the source of Juturna and the
soaking great victory had been seen announcing wears a very un-Roman character and is without
doubt the details similar to the epiphany of the Dioscuri in the famous, about a century before at
the Crotoniates between the river and the Locrians Sagras fought battles in a very early period
nachgedichtet. Even the Delphic Apollo is charged not merely, as is usual, all under the influence
of Greek culture related peoples, and not just for special achievements, such as after the conquest of Veii, with
the tithe of the booty (360 394) presents, but it is also a temple town of India construction
(323 431 401 353 renewed). The same thing happened towards the end of this period for the Aphrodite
(459 295), which in mystery, with the old Roman Gartengoettin Venus ^ 4, flowed, and for the of Epidaurus
in the Peloponnesus requested and solemnly to Rome guided Asklapios or Aesculapius (463 291). Solo
is in serious action Zeitlaeuften heard about the entry of foreign superstition, probably
Etruscan Haruspizes (So ​​326 428), but where will the police not failed to do a cheap show. ---------------------------------------------
^ 4 appears in the later importance as Aphrodite, Venus probably first at the dedication Temple
consecrated in that year (Livy 10, 31, WA Becker, topography of the city of Rome [Becker, Manual,
1]. Leipzig 1843, p. 472). --------------------------------------------- In contrast, Etruria, while
the nation into political insignificance and opulence INSTITUTION hesitated, and spoiled the
theological monopoly of the nobility, the dull fatalism, the wueste and senseless mysticism, and the
mendicant prophets Zeichendeuterei being gradually have developed at that altitude, where we
find them there later. The priest being came to our knowledge, radical changes a non Vera end.
The intensified confiscation, what to pay for the costs for the public worship of the process
dependent buses 'turned around the year 465 (289), points to the rise of the religious state
budget, as It brought the increased number of Staatsgoetter and temples of necessity with them.
In the bad effects of Staendehaders has been already been executed, that the colleges give
the expert an improper influence began and uses them conceding to political acts, which partly shaken
faith in the people, some of the Clergy a very harmful impact on the public business was allowed.
In Warfare occurred in this period on a complete revolution. The ancient graecoitalische Army
order, which is equal to the Homeric to the segregation of the most respected and capable,
usually based on horse fencing soldiers to have their own vanguard, may Koenig was in the later
time by the legio, probably from the altdorische Hoplitenphalanx depth of eight limbs have
been replaced, which took over from then on, the focus of the struggle, made during the horsemen
on the wings and ready to eat, depending on the circumstances or on horseback, were used mainly
as a reserve. From this production grew approximately simultaneously in the Sarissenphalanx Macedonia and Italy, the Manipularordnung
those by Compaction and consolidation, by this resolution and Vermannigfaltigung of the limbs,
initially by the division of the old Legio of 8400 in two legions of 4200 men each, the old
Doric Phalanx had quite the Nahgefecht with the sword and is mainly a skewer and the throwing
weapons only an incidental and subordinate admitted in the meeting. In Manipularlegion was the
shock of the lance on the third meeting and the two restricted first given them a new and
rather peculiar Italic throwing weapon, the Pilum, a long fuenftehalb Ellen square or round wood
with three-or four-edged iron Tip, which was probably originally invented to defend the Lagerwaelle,
But soon the last of the first members went over and advancing of the limb was thrown at a distance
10:00 to 20:00 pace in the enemy ranks. At the same time won the sword a far greater significance than
the short diameter of the phalanx have had been able, for the javelin volley was initially only
intended to attack the sword to break the train. Further, when the phalanx, as it were a single
huge lance, thrown at once upon the enemy had, so were in the new Italian Legion smaller,
in Phalangensystem probably present, but insoluble in the battle fixed yields systematic tactical
units separately from each other. The closed square divided not merely, as I said, in two
equal halves, but each of them was further apart in the depth direction in three meetings of
the hastati that the Principes and the triarii, discounted, probably the final amount is usually
only four members Depth and dissolved in the front direction in ten clusters (manipulate), so that
between two meetings and two clusters, a noticeable gap remained. It was only a continuation same
individualism, even if the overall struggle of the smaller tactical unit back-and single combat came
to the fore, as in the aforementioned critical Role of the melee and sword battle clearly
showing. Peculiarly developed also the system of Lagerverschanzung, the place where the army crowd
if only for one night his camp was, without exception, was provided with a regular ramparts and
vice in the same time create a fortress. Little changes in the cavalry on the other hand, the
also in the secondary role Manipularlegion retained, which they occupied in addition to the phalanx
had. Also, the system remained an unchanged officer in the main, except that now everyone of the
two legions of the regular army as well set before many war Tribune, as previously commanded
the entire army had doubles the number of staff officers. It should and in that time, the
sharp boundary have been identified between the subalterns, which is to win their place at
the head of the centurion as a congregation with a sword had and went over in regular advancement
from the lower to the higher centurion, and six and six the whole legions superior military tribunes,
for which there no regular advancement and to which they were ordinary men from the better
class adopted. In particular, it has become important for it to be that, whereas previously
the subaltern as the staff officers were appointed by the commander evenly, (362) since the
year 392 part of the latter item was allocated by local elections. Finally stopped the old, terribly
strict discipline unchanged. Still, it was allowed the commander, each lay in his bed serving
man's head in front of the feet and the staff officer as well as the common soldier auszuhauen
with rods, and the like were not penalties only detected for common crimes, but also when an
officer was allowed to deviate from the orders given, or if a department had to wait and surprise
or had left the battlefield. Other hand, requires the new Army order is a far more serious
and ongoing military school so far as the phalanx, where the emphasis the mass held together
and the inexperienced. If still no own soldiers as developed, but the army continued to be
citizens army, this was mainly achieved by that gave the former layout of the soldiers for fortune
and by seniority arranged. The Roman recruit was now among the lightly armed, outside the line
particularly with slingshots fencing "sprinklers" (rorarii) and advanced gradually from that in the
first and second in on the meeting, until at last the long-serving and experienced Soldiers
in the number of weaker, but in the whole army tone and spirit indicative of Triarierkorps came together.
The excellence of this war order that the proximate cause become the superior political position
of the Roman Church is based substantially on the three major principles of the military reserve,
the connection of the short-and long battle and the combination of offensive and defensive. The reserve
system was already in the elderly Use of cavalry as indicated, but here the structure of the
army in three lines and for the reserve of the core group of veterans of the last and decisive blow
completely developed. If the Hellenic Phalanx close combat, the oriental with bow and light
Javelin armed cavalry squadrons were formed the ranged on one side, it was by the Roman combination
of heavy javelins with the sword, as I said with law been, is achieved a similar success as in modern
warfare through the introduction the bayonet rifle, and it worked the javelin volley the sword fight
in exactly the same way before as now, the salvo of the attack with the bayonet. Finally,
the storage system designed It allowed the Romans to take advantage of the siege, and the offensive
war with each other to join the battle and depending on the circumstances, to refuse or to
supply, and in the latter Just as in the case, they Lagerwaellen under the walls of a fortress
to beat - the Roemer says a Roman proverb, conquers by sitting still. The fact that these new rules
of war essentially a Roman or at least Italic implementation and training of the ancient Hellenic
Phalangentaktik is, is obvious: if some beginnings of the reserve system and the individualization
the smaller army units already in the later Greek strategists, especially in Xenophon meet, it
follows only that the deficiency of the old system also seen here, but not yet been able to
have to eliminate them. Completely developed appears Manipularlegion in the Pyrrhic War, when
and under what circumstances and whether they are arose once or gradually, can be detected any more.
The first of the older Italo-Hellenic thoroughly different tactics against the Romans took over,
Celtic Swords was the phalanx, it is not impossible that by the structure the army and the
intervals of the frontal maniple their first and only dangerous shock to ward off and has a
shot blocked, and thus it together right, when in some individual Notes the most important Roman general
of the Gallic, Marcus Furius Camillus, as a reformer of the Roman military system appears.
 On the other hand, it was with the strong moral emphasis, the Roman in the community on
the land fell, and in his political rights alone, which only towards the end of this period,
some restrictions suffered, no doubt, usually already at this time, that the speculator happy with part
of its capital to ansa vinegar made. It is also from the political preference of the ansa vinegars
freedmen sufficiently highlighted, that Roman statesmen acted then, this is to the dangerous
class of reduce grundsaessigen not rich. --------------------------------------------------
---- ^ 7 The assumption that the artist, which for this box to Dindia Macolnia worked in Rome, Novius
Plautius, a Campanian, WAS is the recently old grave stones found praenestinischen refuted
on which, among other Macolniern and Plautii a Plautius son of Lucius Magulnius (L. Magolnio
Pla. f.) occurs. -------------------------------------------------- ---- But when in Rome or
a wealthy urban middle class nor a strictly closed Capitalist class was formed, the large cities but in essence was in irresistible Rise. Clearly
has pointed out the increasing number of pressed together in the capital Slaves, of which the very
serious Sklavenverschwoerung the year 335 (419) bears witness, and yet longer rising, gradually becoming
uncomfortable and dangerous amount of those released, after which in 397 (357) on the releases down
considerable tax and the restriction allow the political rights of freedmen in the year 450
(304) a safe conclusion. For it was not just in the circumstances that the vast majority of
the released People dedicated to the trade or the trade had, but it was also the release itself The
Romans, as I said, less than one Liberalitaet industrial speculation by the Lord in the proportion
of the industrial or commercial profits of the freedmen's often better Than in the bill was
entitled to the entire net proceeds of the slave trade. The increase The releases must therefore
with the increase of commercial and industrial activity the Romans have gone hand in hand required.
A similar hint for the increasing Importance of the urban system in Rome granted the enormous
development of the municipal Police. It belongs to a large extent on well already that time that
the four aediles under The city divided into four police districts, and that for the important but
difficult Maintenance of the network by withdrawing all of Rome from smaller and larger Abzugskanaelen
and the public buildings and places, for the proper cleaning and paving the streets, for the
elimination of imminent collapse of the building, dangerous animals, bad Odors, for the exclusion
of the cars except in the evening and night hours and at all for the maintenance of open communication,
for the uninterrupted supply of the capitals Market with good and cheap grain, for the destruction
of Harmful products and false weights and measures, for the special monitoring of bathrooms,
giving, poor Houses of the aediles parental care was taken. In the construction industry may well
Koenig time, especially the era of great conquests, have accomplished more than the first two
centuries of Republic. Facilities such as the temple on the Capitol and the Aventine Hill and the
big playground like the thrifty fathers of the city as well as the citizens fronenden been
an abomination be, and it is noteworthy that perhaps the most important building of the republican
Time before the Samnite wars, the Temple of Ceres at the Circus, the work of Spurius Cassius (261 493),
was what zurueckzulenken in more ways than one back in the traditions of the kings was looking
for. Even the private luxury held down the ruling aristocracy with a severity as to the kingdom
if prolonged, would certainly not have developed. But the length of even the Senate could no
longer against the heavy weight of the situation to stem. Appius Claudius was the one who in
his epoch-making censorship (442 312) the outdated Bauer saving the treasure collecting system
cast aside and his fellow citizens, the public funds use in a dignified manner taught. He began the great
system-profit public Buildings, which, if anything, Rome's military successes by the terms of
Voelkerwohlfahrt is justified, and even today its ruins thousands and thousands who from roman
history have never read a leaf, a clue is the size of Rome. Him owes the Roman State, the first major
Militaerchaussee, the Roman city of the first Water line. Claudius' trail, the Roman Senate wrapped
around Italy that road and fort network, the foundation was described earlier, and without, as
from the Achaemenid down to the creator of the Simplon road teaches the history of all Militaerstaaten,
no military hegemony can be made. Claudius' trail, built Manius Curius From the proceeds of a second prey
Pyrrhic capitals water supply (482 272) and some years earlier opens (464 290) with the Sabine
war, gain the Velino, because Terni above where he plunges into the Nera, which is still flowing
through it from him wider Bed to dry out in this beautiful valley of Rieti for a large settlement
of citizens Space and also for himself to win a modest hooves. Such works darkened even in the
eyes of intelligent people who purposeless splendor of the Hellenistic temple. Also, the bourgeois
life was now different. At the time of Pyrrhus began on the Roman Boards the silverware to
show up ^ 8 and the disappearance of Schindeldaecher in Rome date the chroniclers of the year
470 (284). The new capital of Italy presented at last their village-like appearance, and began
gradually from now on, even to decorate themselves. Although it was still not the custom in
the conquered cities to Rome, the glorification of their temple ornaments to rob, but it were
displayed at the Rednerbuehne the market, the beaks of the galleys of Antium and public holidays,
length of the hall on the market from the battlefields Samnium brought home gold studded shields.
Especially the yield of the Bruechgelder served to pave the roads in and out of town or to create
and decorate PUBLIC Building. The wooden stalls of the butchers, which at the two long sides
of the market, dragged departed, first at the Palatine, then facing the well at the Carine
page the stone halls of the money changers, because this place was the Roman Stock Exchange.
The Bildsaeulen the celebrated men of the past, the kings, priests and heroes of the Share time,
the Greek host, the Zehnmaennern interpreted the laws to Solon should have the Ehrensaeulen
and monuments of the great mayor, which Veienter, the Latins, the Samnites had been overcome,
the state messengers in the execution of their mission died were the rich women, the public on their
capital purposes disposes had even been celebrated Greek sages and heroes, such as Pythagoras
and Alcibiades, were set up at the Castle or the Roman market. Thus was after become a great power the
Roman community was Rome itself a big city. --------------------------------------- ^ 8 The silver
because of its Tafelgeraets against Publius Cornelius Rufinus (consul 464, 477 290, 277) sentenced
him censorial stigma has already been thought of. Fabius' strange details (for Strabo, 5, p.
228), that the Romans first after the conquest of the Sabines in the luxury revealed have
(αισθέσθαι τού πλόντου), is apparently only one άbersetzung same story to the Historical; since the
defeat of the Sabines falls in Rufinus' first consulate. -------------------------------------
At last, because Rome also joined as head of the Roman-Italian Confederation as in the Hellenistic
State system, so also in the Hellenic money and coinage. Until then, the communities Copper Courant
northern and central Italy with only few exceptions, the southern Italian towns however, easily
passed silver coins struck and the law Muenzfuesse and Monetary Systems where as many as there
were sovereign communities in Italy. In the year 485 (269) were all these mints to the coinage of restricted coins, a general,
for all Italy introduced and existing Courant foot Courantpraegung centralized in Rome, Capua
that his own, though under Roman names, but were characterized on different base Silver coins
and also retained. The new monetary system was based on the statutory conditions the two metals,
the same as it was clear for a long time, and the common monetary unit was the Composition of ten pounder
any more, but on the third pound reduced Assen Denarius, copper in 3 1 / 3 in Silver 1 / 72 of an Roman
pound, a little something more than Attic drachma. Initially prevailed in the die-stamping before the copper
coins and probably is the oldest silver denarius mainly for southern Italy and for the marketing of
the Abroad have been beaten. But the victory of the Romans over Pyrrhus and Tarentum and the Roman
Embassy to Alexandria to give the Greek statesman of this time to think, had to so also the insightful
Greek merchant might well thoughtfully the new Roman Drachmas look like flat, monotonous and
inartistic character next to the simultaneous the beautiful coins of Pyrrhus and the Siceliotes
however meager and unattractive appears, but still not, as the Barbarenmuenzen of antiquity,
slavishly imitated and not equal in both flour and grain, but are with their independent and
conscientious die-stamping of each Greek house equal to the face side. If, from development the constitutions
of the Voelkerkaempfen to rule and freedom, like Italy and in particular Rome by the banishment
of sex Tarquinian to subjugation of the Samnites and the Italic Greeks moved, the view turns
to the more peaceful districts of the human Existence that dominates the story but also, and
penetrates, he also met everywhere the aftermath of the great events through which the Roman citizenship
the shackles of gender regiment broke and the rich abundance of national education Italy went
down gradually in order to enrich a single people. Could even the historian do not try, the great
course of events in the infinite variety of pursue individual design to go in, he walked over but
not his task to if he, moving from the crumpled tradition Bruchstuecke individual, indicating
the main changes that took place during this period in Italian national life have. If it even more than
before the Roman came to the fore, this is not only in the random gaps of our tradition founded;
rather it is a significant consequence of the altered political position of Rome, that the Latin nationality
the rest obscured more and more Italian. It has been pointed out that in this period, the neighboring
states, the southern Etruria, Sabina, is the Volskerland Romanize to began, of which the almost total
absence of the old Sprachdenkmaelern Country dialects and the occurrence of very ancient Roman inscriptions
in these areas witness stores and the inclusion of the Sabines in full citizenship at the end
of this period suggests that the Romanization of Central Italy at that time the conscious aim of
Roman policy was. The numerous scattered throughout Italy and Einzelassignationen colonial
founding are not only military but also the national language and outposts of the Latin tribe.
The Romanization of the Italians at all was difficult even then intends, on the contrary seems
to be the Roman Senate against the opposition of the Latin get the other nationalities to have deliberately
maintained and allowed, for example, the introduction of Latin in the official language of
the Campanian sojourners communities not yet. However the nature of relationships is stronger
than even the strongest government; with the Latin people also won its language and customs
in Italy, the principality initially and already started to undermine the rest Italian nationalities.
At the same time were the same under attack from another angle and with an otherwise justified
superiority by Hellenism. This was the period when the Greeks of his intellectual superiority
over the other nations began to be aware and propaganda on all sides to make. Italy was also not
been immune. The most remarkable phenomenon in this Art, Apulia, which gradually since the
fifth century of Rome's barbarian dialect and took off in the silent Hellenized. It was so similar
as in Macedonia and Epirus by non-colonization, but by civilization, the Tarentum with the
Country trade gone hand in hand seems to be - at least, it speaks for the latter Assumption that
the Tarentines friendly landscapes and Poediculer Daunians the Hellenization by Taranto closer than
keep full living, but resistant Sallentiner quarreling with him, and that the earliest hellenized
cities, such as Arpi, were not located on the coast. That on the Greek system stronger Apulia
Influence does than on any other Italic landscape, is partly explained by its Position, and partly
from the low development of its own national education, probably partly from the Greek root of
his less alien than any other factors Italian opposite Nationality. However, has been made
already earlier pointed out that the southern Sabellian tribes, although initially in association
with the Hellenic Syracusan tyrant Being in the United Greece bent and spoiled, but also by the contact
and mixing with the Greeks, Greek language in addition to some of the local assumptions, such
as the Brettians and Nola, at least partly Greek alphabet and Greek custom, and as the Lucanians part
of the Campanian. Etruria also shows the beginnings of a similar development in the remarkable
discoveries of this era relatives vases, in which it with Campania and Lucania rivals, and when Lazio
and Samnium Hellenism are absent, so missing it but again not to mark the beginning of the Greek
and ever growing influence Education. In all branches of the Roman development of this period,
legislative and coinage, in religion, in the formation of the saga, we find traces of Greek, and
especially since the beginning of the fifth century, ie since the conquest of Campania, appears
the Greek influence on the Roman system in rapid and ever increasing growth. In the fourth
century, the establishment of the falls and linguistically curious' graecostasis " a platform
on the market for the noble Roman Greek strangers initially, the Massiliots. The following
start the Jahrbuecher, noble Romans with Greek epithets, like Philip or Roman Pilipus, Philo,
Sophos to exhibit Hypsaeos. Greek customs penetrate, so the use nichtitalische, inscriptions
in honor of the dead in the tomb to install, which the grave writing of Lucius Scipio, consul
456 (298), the oldest known Example is, so also the other way, the Italians, without public
in community decision Places the ancestors to build Ehrendenkmaeler with which the great innovators
Appius Claudius It started when he was in the new temple of Bellona Erzschilde with the images
and the Helmets: Elogien his ancestors left (442 312), so that in the year 461 (293) in the Roman
Festival introducet issue of palm branches at the races, so in particular the Greek Table manners.
The manner at table not as formerly to sit on benches, but on sofas to lie, and the shift of the
main meal of the lunch on the hour between two and three clock in the afternoon after our account,
the drinking champion with the feasts, which mostly by cubes of the guests for the feast to be
appointed and now those at table Prescribe what, how and when to drink, after the number of
the guests sung Table songs that were certainly not in Rome Skoli but Ahnengesaenge - all this
is in Rome, and yet not originally borrowed in very early times the Greeks, for in Cato's time
these practices were already common, so sometimes come off again. Man therefore their introduction
will have to set in later than this time. It is characteristic Bildsaeulen of the establishment of the
"wisest and the bravest Greeks to the Roman Market, which took place during the Samnite wars at the
behest of the Pythian Apollo, we elected, apparently under Sicilian or Kampan influence that Pythagoras
and Alcibiades the Saviour and the Hannibal of the West Greeks. How widespread the knowledge of
Greek was already in the fifth century under the Romans do, prove the embassies the Romans
to Taranto, where the speaker of the Romans, though not in the purest Greek, but without an interpreter,
spoke and Cineas to Rome. It suffers little doubt that since the fifth century, the young
Romans, who were dedicated to the affairs of state, continuity The news of the contemporary world and
diplomatic language to earn. So step on the spiritual Field of Hellenism as inexorably forward,
like the Romans worked the Earth to make submissive, and the secondary nationalities, such
as the Samnite, Celtic, Etruscan, lost, under pressure from two sides, more and more like expansion
of internal Force. But the two great nations, both reached the peak of their development, as in friendly
contact with hostile begin to penetrate, occurs at the same time their opposition, the total
lack of individualism in all the Italian and especially in the Roman character compared to the
infinite derived lichen, and local human Variety of Hellenism in full sharpness out. There are no
more violent era in the history of Rome as the era of the establishment of the Roman Republic to the
Subjugation of Italy, in her was justified outside the community, both internally and, created
in her the unification of Italy, in its traditional foundations of land law and the country's
history produced in her the Pilum and the centurion, the Road and Hydraulic Engineering, the
estate and money economically justified, cast her in the Capitoline she-wolf and the ficoronische box
drawn. But the individuality, which to this gigantic the individual stones have worn, and they brought
the assembled are lost without a trace and Italic tribes of the risen not entirely in the Roman
than the individual Roman citizens in the Roman community. Like the grave in the same way about
the important how about the small people will close, so is also in Roman mayor list the void
Junker indistinguishable great addition to the statesman. Of the few records which are from
this period come down to us is not just a respectable and not at the same time characteristic than
the grave writing of Lucius Cornelius Scipio, in the year 456 (298) Was consulted, and three
years later mitfocht in the decisive battle in Sentinum. On the beautiful sarcophagus in elegant Doric
style, the eighty years before the dust of the conqueror the Samnites single lock is inscribed
the following sentence: Lucius Cornelius - Scipio Barbatus, Gnaivód patre prognátus, - Fortis
Vir sapiénsque, Quoiús forma Virtues - tei parísuma fuite, Consol censor aidílis - Quei fuit apud
vos, Taurásiá Cisaúna - Sámnió CEPIT, Subigít omne Loucánam - ópsidésque abdoúcit. Lucius Cornelius
- Scipio Barbatus, His father Gnaevos Son, one - man as wise as brave, well his body was - appropriately
virtue, The Consul, censor was at - you, as well Aedilis, Taurasia, Cisauna - he took in Samnium,
Defeat Lucania completely - leadeth away the hostages. Just as the Roman statesman and Warriors
might be countless others who stood at the head of the Roman community have nachruehmen it
that noble and beautiful, brave and wise men have been, but was nothing further to report on
them. It's probably not just blame the tradition, that none of Cornelius, Fabians, and how they continue
Papirii hot, us human in a specific image confronts. The senator is not bad and not better
at all no different than all the senators, it is neither necessary nor desirable that a citizen
of any other factors about meetings, either by magnificent end Silbergeraet and Hellenic culture even
through uncommon wisdom and excellence. Those excesses of the censor and punish for this has
no place in the Constitution.
 As long as the Latin Confederation was still open, had the Border of Latium
with the construction of new Bundesstaedte pushed himself, but as the younger Latin colonies were
given no share in the Albanian party, they were also geographically not as part of Lazio -
that are likely to Ardea and Circeii but not Sutrium and Tarracina expected to the landscape of Lazio.
But not only were after 370 (384) with Latin Right "places of the federal community kept away,
but there were the same in private law that is isolated from each other, as the traffic and probably
the community of marriage (commercium et conubium) of each of these communities but with the Roman,
was permitted but not with the rest Latin, which implies that, for example, the citizens of
Sutrium well in Rome, but not in a field Praeneste to full ownership and have most probably, a Roman,
but not gain from Tiburtinerin right children was ^ 13 --------------------------------------------------
---- ^ 13 This restriction full of the old Latin legal community met first into the contract renewal
416 (338) (Livy 8, 14), however, because the insulation system in which the same is an essential
Part is first started for the under 370 (384) EXPORTED Latin colonies and 416 (338) was only generalized,
so was this new feature to mention here. ------------------------------------------- Furthermore,
when previously been permitted within the Confederation, a fairly free movement was and as
the six municipalities altlatinischen Aricia, Tusculum, Tiber, Lanuvium, Cora and Laurentum and the two neulatinischen
Ardea and Suessa Pometia the aricinischen Diana were allowed to jointly establish a sanctuary, so
the Roman finds of similar Imminent danger Sonderkonfoederationen hegemony, without doubt,
not by chance, in later Time is no other example. Similarly, one further transformation of the
Latin write community constitutions and their full compensation to the constitution of Rome of
this period allowed, for if as a necessary part of the Latin magistracy besides the two Praetors
later, the two with the market and road policing and associated Administration of justice
entrusted aediles appear, this has apparently simultaneously and at the suggestion the leading power
in all federal communities was the establishment of municipal police authorities certainly
not before the year 387 (367) covered up the curule aedileship in Rome, but probably just
taken place at this time. Without a doubt, this arrangement only the link of a chain of patronizing
and bundesgenoessischen Gemeindeordnungen in police-aristocratic sense transforming Mass rules.
Apparently felt to Rome the fall of Veii and the conquest of the area pomptinischen is powerful
enough to Tighter reins of hegemony must be applied and all the Latin cities in such a to bring dependent
position that they were in fact completely submissive. In this Time (406 348) undertook the
Carthaginians in Rome concluded with trade agreement the Latins, the Rome were obedient, including
the port cities Ardea Antium Circeii, Tarracina inflict no damage, but one of the Latin from
the Roman cities would Alliance have dropped, so should the Phoenicians same attack allowed,
however, when they would be kept as they conquer, they do not grind, but the Romans to deliver.
There exists by which the Roman chains her community Schutzstaedte band itself, and what a city
that escaped the local patronage, thereby falls by and dare. Although remained even now if
the Hernik, at least of the Latin Confederation its formal claim to the third part of war profiteers
and perhaps even some other remnant of the former equal rights, but what evidence lost was
important enough to make the understandable bitterness, which in this Time among the Latins
against Rome ruled. Not only challenged, wherever there are armies against Rome in the field were,
numerous Latin Reislaeufer leading to their under foreign flag Community, but in the year 405
(349) decided to even the Latin Federal Assembly, the Romans deny the influx. But all indications
there was a time insurrection the whole Latin confederacy in the not distant time before, and
just now threatened a collision with another Italian nation, which was probably capable of the
combined Power of the Latin tribe to meet an equal. After the defeat of the northern Volscians
was the Romans in the South initially not significant compared to opponents; unstoppable approached
their legions of the Liris. In the year 397 (357) fought was happy with the Privernaten, 409 (345)
Sora occupied the upper Liris. Even so were the Roman armies on the border of the Samnites,
and the Freundschaftsbuendnis that in 400 (354), the two bravest and most powerful nations
joined another Italian, was the safe sign of approaching and with the crisis within the Latin nation
in a threatening manner, devouring struggle for supremacy in Italy. The Samnite nation, which,
as we Rome expelled the Tarquins, no doubt for quite some time in the possession of between the
Apulian and Campanian level rising and both dominant HILLS had been had been on one side by the
Daunians - falls Arpis power and blossom prevented, on the other by the Greeks and Etruscans
in further progress - in this time been. But the overthrow of the Etruscan power by the end
of the third (450), the fall in Greek colonies in the fourth century (450-350) went to the west
and South of them air and a Samnite swarm after another pulled up to now, yes, about the South Italian
seas. First she appeared in the plane of the Gulf, where the name of the Campanian heard since
the beginning of the fourth century, the Etruscans were crushed here, restricted the Greeks,
those Capua (330 424), this Kyme (334 420) snatched away. About the same Time, perhaps even earlier,
showing in Greece, the United Lucan, in the beginning of the fourth century Terinaeern Thurin
and are in the fight and some time ago 364 (390) in the Greek Laos established themselves. About
this time was her squad 30 000 Infantry and 4000 cavalry. Towards the end of the fourth century,
the first issue of Confederation of the separate Brettians ^ 14, which, unlike the other tribes
Sabellian, not as a colony, but in the battle of the Luca Africans freed themselves and strange
to many Elements were mingled. Well-investigated the South Italian Greeks, the congestion to
fend off the barbarians, the Achaean Staedtebund was 361 (393) reconstituted and fixed that
if any of the allied cities were attacked by Luca agents, make any move and should the leaders
of armies suffer from lack of capital punishment. But even the agreement Gross Greece not helped
when the Lord of Syracuse, Dionysius the elder, with the Italians against his countrymen, made
common cause. During the great Greek Dionysios Fleet rule over the Italian seas tore, was
a Greek city by the Italians after the other occupied or destroyed, in an incredibly short time,
the flourishing Staedtering destroyed or abandoned. Only a few Greek places, such as Naples,
it was tedious and longer contracts than by force of arms, at least their existence and their nationality
to preserve, quite independent and powerful left alone Taranto, the farther its Situation and in
his constant struggles with the Messapii entertaining repartee is held upright, although the
city resistant to the agents for their existence to Luca challenge and had been compelled to look for
in home or Greek mercenaries and alliances. ----------------------------------------------
^ 14 The name itself is ancient, indeed the oldest native name of the inhabitants of present-day
Calabria (Antiochus Fri 5:00 Mueller). The known Derivation is invented without a doubt. -----------------------------------------------
To Time when Veii and pomptinische level, roman, had the Samnite troops already In Italy all hold except
for a few and are not interconnected Greek Pflanzstaedte and the Apulian-Messapic coast. The documents
drawn up by 418 (336) Greek Kuestenbeschreibung sets the actual Samnites with their "five tongues"
of a sea to another, and the Tyrrhenian beside her in the north, the Campanian, south the Lucan,
under which are here more often as the Brettians mitbegriffen and those already entire coast of the Tyrrhenian
to Paestum Thurii to be allocated on the Ionian Sea. In fact, who compares what the two great nations
of Italy, the Latin and the Samnites, had won before they touched, which presents the path of
conquest the latter is far more extensive and more brilliant than that of the Romans. But the
character the conquest was a much more different. From the solid urban center, Lazio in the Rome
possessed the power of this tribe expands slowly in all directions from, though in relatively
narrow limits, but collectively fixed foot, where she treads some by founding fortified cities
of roman type with dependent federal law, in others by Romanization of the conquered territory.
Anders Samnium. There is no single leading Community and therefore no policy of conquest. During
the conquest of veientischen and pomptinischen territory for Rome was a real extension of power
was Samnium by Genesis of the Campanian cities, the American Lucas, the board's Confederation
rather weakened as a stronger, because each flock had sought and found the new seats, went
for now, his path. The Samnite troops meet a disproportionate wide space, they make all their own
are not to be considered; the bigger Griechenstaedte, Taranto, Thurii, Croton, Metaponto, Heraclea,
Rhegion, Naples, although weakened, and often dependent, persist and are even on the open country
and even in smaller cities the Greeks tolerated and remained Kyme, for example, Posidonia, Laos,
Hipponion how the mentioned Kuestenbeschreibung and coins teach under Samnite control yet Griechenstaedte.
Thus arose a mixed population, such as especially the dialogue Brettians except Samnite and
Hellenic elements, and even probably the remains of the old Indigenous recordings in itself, but
must also in Lucania and Campania in a lesser degree Similar mixtures have taken place. The
dangerous magic of the Hellenic culture was also the Samnite nation not escape, at least in Campania,
where Naples early with the immigrants are put on clean transport and where the sky itself,
the Barbarians humanized. Nola, Nuceria, Teanum, although purely Samnite population took Greek and
Greek city way of Constitution, just as the local Gauverfassung could persist impossible under
the altered conditions. The Campanian Samnitenstaedte coins began to beat, some with Greek inscription,
Capua was through trade agriculture and the size after the second city of Italy, the first of
luxury and wealth. The deep demoralization in which the reports of the elderly show that this
city has all the others Italian has done this before, reflected particularly in the advertising
sector and the gladiators, both of which have come mainly in Capua to bloom. Nowhere were the recruiters
so many Feed in this metropolis of demoralized civilization during Capua itself before the attacks
of the Samnites did not know oncoming salvage, streamed the militant Campania youth under selbstgewaehlten
condottiere mass especially in Sicily. interventions such as deep this trooper rides in the
fortunes of Italy, will later show yet be, for the Campanian, they are just as significant as
the gladiatorial games, which also in Capua, not its origin, but their training received. This
occurred even during Fechter pairs of feasting and was their number depending on the rank of
the invited guests is measured. This degeneracy of the most important Samnite city home here,
no doubt with the Etruscan still continuing effects being closely, for the whole nation had
verhaengnisvoll be, although the Campanian nobility understood chivalry with the deepest moral
decline to combine courage and high intellectual culture, yet he could for his nation never be
what the Roman nobility was for the Latin. Similar to the Campanian, though in lesser strength,
the Hellenic influence affected the Lucanians and Brettians. The Graeberfunde in all these areas
show how Greek art there with barbaric Luxury was maintained, and the rich gold and amber jewelry, the
magnificent painted dishes, as we now dismiss the houses of the dead, give an idea of ​​how
far one is already here was removed from the old custom of the fathers. Other traces preserved
the Scriptures, the altnationale from the north was brought by the Africans and Luca Brettians
abandoned and the Greek reversed, while in Campania, the national alphabet, and probably also the
language under the visual impact of the Greek SEPARATE developed to greater clarity and Fineness.
It might even meet some traces of the influence of Greek philosophy. Only the actual Samnitenland
remained untouched by these innovations, so beautiful and of course they sometimes might be, but
conversant contributed their share of the house already oldie of national unity to relax more
and more. came through the influence of the Hellenic system a deep crack in the Samnite tribe. The civilized
"Phil Hellenes" got used in Campania themselves, like the Greeks themselves, to shake with the rougher
tribes of the mountains, which in turn did not cease to invade Campania and to disturb the degenerate
older settlers. Rome was a closed country, about the power available to the whole of Latium, the subjects
might grumble, but they obeyed. The Samnite tribe was disjointed and fragmented, and the Confederation
itself had Samnium Although the morals and bravery the fathers was preserved unimpaired, but also about
it with the rest Samnite peoples- and citizenship disintegrate completely. In fact, there was
this dichotomy between the Samnites the level and the Samnites of the mountains, which led the
Romans over the Liris. The Sidiciner studied in Teanum the Campanian in Capua against their
own countrymen, with new Enthuse their area is burned and threatened to set themselves, help
with the Romans (411 343). As the coveted alliance was denied, the embassy provided the Campanian Subjugation
of the city under the sovereignty of Rome, and such could lure the Roemer to resist. Roman envoys
went to the Samnites, their new acquisition view and urge them to respect the territory of the
friendly power. As the Events have been further is to identify the individual no longer ^ 15, we only
see that between Rome and Samnium, whether to another campaign, it was no previous war, a Agreement
was reached whereby the Romans were given a free hand against Capua, the Samnites against Teanum
and Volscians the upper Liris. The fact that the Samnites to be understood, is explained from
the enormous effort that went just about this time the Tarentines, the Sabellian Neighbors to
get rid of, but even the Romans had good reason to be so with the Samnites quickly as possible
to find them because of the impending transition of the south bordering Lazio transformed
landscape in Roman possession the longest among the Latins existing fermentation into open revolt.
All originally Latin cities, even the Roman citizens in the Federation recorded Tusculans taken
up arms against Rome, with the single exception of the Laurent while on the other hand, incorporated
outside the borders of Latium colonies only the old Volskerstaedte Velitrae, Antium Tarracina and
participated in the rebellion. The fact that the Capua, regardless of the just recently been transferred
voluntarily surrender to the Romans, yet the first opportunity, the Roman rule again to be
single, taken willingly and, despite the resistance of the Treaty of Rome with retentive Optimate
party, the community common cause with the Latin Confederation made is to explain, while the still
independent Volskerstaedte as Fundi and Formia, and the same is Hernici the Campanian aristocracy
in this rebellion is not involved. The position of the Romans was concern and the legions that
had gone over the Liris and occupied Campania by the revolt of the Latins were cut off from
home and only one could win it Save lives. In Trifanum (between Minturnae, Sessa and Sinuessa)
was the decisive battle delivered (414 340): the consul Titus Manlius Imperiosus Torquatus
erfocht over the combined Latins and Campanians a complete victory. In the two following years,
the individual Cities, where they still resisted, and defeated by capitulation or storm the whole
landscape brought into submission. -------------------------------------------------- - ^ 15
Perhaps no section of the Roman annals is worse than the distorted narrative of the first Samnite
war-Latin, such as that in Livy, Dionysius, Appian or stood. It runs about as follows. After
411 (343) indented both consuls in Campania were, first, the consul Marcus Valerius Corvus erfocht
on mountains Gaurus over the Samnites a severe and bloody victory, then his colleague Aulus Cornelius
Cossus after He destruction in a bottleneck by devotion to a military tribune Publius Decius of the guided
division had escaped. The third and decisive battle was at the entrance of Caudines passports at
Suessula beaten by the two consuls, the Samnites were completely overcome - you read four thousand
of their shields on the battlefield on - and peace compelled, in which the Romans Capua, which
may be retained them as our own, Teanum however, left the Samnites (413 341). Congratulation came from all
sides, even of Carthage. The Latins, who had refused to move and mobilize against Rome seemed
instead turned their weapons against Rome but against the Paeligner, while initially the Romans
Militaerverschwoerung by the crew left behind in Campania (412 342), then busy by taking Privernum
(413 341) and the war against the Antiates were. Now, suddenly and strangely change Parteiverhaeltnisse.
The Latins, who vainly Roman citizenship and the proportion had called at the Consulate, rose against
Rome in communion with the Sidicinern, plotted in vain to the Romans, the submission and before the
Samnites had to save himself did not know and with the Kampa Africans to the Roman Rule were tired
already. Only Laurent in Lazio and Campania Knights kept to the Romans, which in turn were
supported by the Paelignern and the Samnites.
 So of
their captain abandoned, while their allies in central Italy deprived of the Tarentines remained
allied with them and the Italians, the leaders and Luca Sallentinern, now of course no choice
but to seek an agreement with Rome, which on tolerable conditions seems to have been granted.
Soon afterward (451 303) was even a Incidence of Kleonymos, who had landed in the area and sallentinischen
Uria, besieged by the Inhabitants repulsed with Roman help. Rome's victory was complete, and
completely he was used. That the Samnites, the Tarentines and also resident tribes of at all
so moderate conditions were made was not Siegergrossmut that the Romans did not know but clever
and clear calculation. First and foremost it was important not so much to southern Italy as
soon as possible to the formal recognition of the Roman Supremacy than to force the surrender
of central Italy, to which the Campania Puglia and even during the last war applied Militaerstrassen
and fortresses Foundation of the, extent and to complete and the northern and southern Italians
by militarily in two out of any direct contact with each cut Auseinanderzusprengen masses. This
is the aim for the next things to the Romans with energetic consequence. Above all, used or
made, the opportunity to the Tiber in the landscape once again with the Roman power rival,
and even individual not clean up completely eliminated and the confederacies of Aequi Hernici.
In the same year in which the peace was concluded with Samnium (450 304), overlaid the Consul
Publius Sempronius Sophus Aequi with the war, in forty villages submitted to fifty Days, the
entire area with the exception of the narrow and rugged mountain valley, which is still the
old Common names carries (Cicolano), became a Roman possession and here at the northern edge of
the lake Fucine Founded in the year to the fortress of Alba, with a crew of 6,000 men, then on the
facing against the warlike Mars and the stronghold of central Italy, just two years later on upper
Turano, closer to Rome, Carsioli, both as a federal municipalities Latin rights. That of the
least Hernik Anagnia part in the final stage of the Samnite War had had the desired base to solve
the old Bundesverhaeltnis. The fate of the Anagnina natuerlicherweise was harder by far than
that which a generation before the Latin communities in the same case had been prepared. They
did not merely how these liabilities the Roman civil rights put up, but lost the same the Caeriten
own administration, on a part of their area at the top Trerus (Sacco) Besides this, a new
mayor and district at the same time, another set at the lower anion (455 299). It was only
sorry that the next three most important Anagnia Hernik communities Aletrium, Verulae Ferentinum
and were not dropped, for the suggestion because she voluntarily in the Roman citizens association
advocate, politely refused, and any excuse, they do necessary to lack, you had them well not
only the autonomy, but even the Right of the Diet and the community of marriage concede even further
and thus even a shadow Hernik the old Confederation to be desired. In the part of Volscian landscape,
which until then had held the Samnites, did not bind similar Ruecksichten. Here were Arpinum Frusino
and submissive, and the latter city a third of its field marks robbed, and also on the upper
Liris next Fregellae already occupied with earlier occupation Volskerstadt Sora now turns
to the duration in a Latin fortress and a legion of 4,000 men down there. That was the old Volskergebiet
subject completely and went his Romanization forward with quick steps. deposited in the landscape,
which Samnium and Etruria, were two Militaerstrassen ushered in and both secured by fortresses.
The northern, from was later the Flamin, covered the Tiber line, it runs the alliance with
Rome Ocriculum to Narnia, as umnannten the Romans, the ancient Umbrian festivals Nequinum, as they there
creates a Militaerkolonie (455 299). The southern, that later was Valerian, Fucine the lake
just mentioned about the forts Carsioli and Alba. The small tribes of, in whose territory such facilities
can be found, the Umbrian, the Nequinum defended stubbornly, the Aequi that again Alba, the Marsi,
broke into the Carsioli could, in his Rome Gang not stop, almost unhindered pushed those two
mighty bolt between Samnium and Etruria. The big roads and fortifications to the permanent protection
of Puglia and was mainly Campania beginning to think and succeed Samnium was further to the
east and West of the Roman fortress knitted net. Significant for the relatively Etruria weakness
is that it was not necessary, the passes through the Cimini Forest in the same way to ensure a proper
road and forts. The previous Border fortress Sutrium was here also the end point of the Roman
Militaerlinie and you contented themselves with the road from there to get at Arretium by communities
in to have militarily usable withstand ^ 4 ------------------------------------------------
^ 4 The operations in the campaign of 537 (217) and certain still the system of road from Arretium
to show Bononia 567 (187) that, under prior to that time the road from Rome Arretium repair
has been set. But a Roman Militaerchaussee they can in this Time not yet been, since, after
its subsequent designation of the "road Cassischen" to close, as can be created via Consularis
not earlier than 583 (171), for between Spurius Cassius, consul 252, 261, 268 (502, 493, 486),
are not the intended course may, and Gaius Cassius Longinus, consul 583 (171), does not appear
in the Roman Cassier Consuls and censors lists. -----------------------------------------------
The generous Samnite nation understood it, that such a peace was more destructive than the most pernicious
War, and what's more, they acted accordingly. Just started in northern Italy by the Celts after
a long Ceasefire again to stir, yet there were also some Etruscan communities against the Romans
under arms and short changed here Waffenstillstaende with severe but unsuccessful battles. Nor
was the whole of central Italy in fermentation and partly in open Uprising, nor were the strongholds
in the system understand the path between Etruria and Samnium not completely blocked. Maybe it
was not too late to save freedom; but we could not delay: the increased difficulty of the attack,
the power of the attacker decreased with each year of the renewed peace. Scarcely five years
had their arms rested and still had to bleed all the wounds which the war zweiundzwanzigjaehrige
the peasantry Samnium had struck, when in the year 456 (298) the Samnite Confederation, to combat
renewed. The last war had much Lucania connection with Rome and the resulting mitveranlasste traffic
away from Tarentum in favor of Rome decided, therefore taught that threw Samnites now first and
foremost, with a vengeance on the Lucanians and brought here, in fact, her party to power and an
alliance between Samnium and Lucania completed. Of course Roemer said that the war immediately,
in Samnium one had not expected anything else. It means the mood that the Samnite government made
the Roman envoys, the advertisement, was unable to vouch for their integrity when they would
enter Samnite territory. The war thus began again (456 298), and during a second army fought
in Etruria marched through the main Roman army Samnium and forced to make peace and hostages
Lucanians to send to Rome. The following year both consuls were able to contact the Samnium; Rullianus
won at Tifernum, Publius Decius Mus his faithful Waffengefaehrte at Maleventum, and five Months
on end camped two Roman armies in enemy territory. It was possible because the Tuscan States
had on his own with Rome angeknuepft peace negotiations. The Samnites, which of house in the
union of all Italy against Rome's only means of Victory must have seen, offered to the uttermost,
to the threatened separate peace between Etruria and Rome to turn, and when at last their commander
Gellius Egnatius the Etruscans their own country, offering help to bring understanding, in fact, the
Etruscan Federal to persevere and once again to call the decision of arms. Samnium made the mightiest
efforts, ask three armies into the field at the same time, one intended to Defense of its territory
for the second invasion of Campania, the third and strongest to Etruria, and really got in
458 (296) the last run by Egnatius itself, were through the Martian and the Umbrian region, whose
inhabitants in the agreement, safely to Etruria. The Romans took some during the festivities in
and broke Samnium the influence of the Samnite party in Lucania, the departure of the Swiss owner
of Egnatius Army they did not prevent. When in Rome, received the news that the Samnites have
been successful in all the immense, the separation of southern Italians from the northern made efforts
to thwart that the arrival of the Samnite troops in Etruria become the signal for a general
insurrection against Rome nearly was that the Etruscan Communities zealously worked to make their
own teams ready and Gallic War to take into pay bands, as was also strained every nerve in
Rome, freedmen and married in cohorts formed - you felt on both sides that the decision was imminent.
The Years 458 (296) but went by, it seems, with armor and marches. For the following (459 295),
the Romans their two best generals, Publius Decius Mus and-aged Quintus Fabius Rullianus, at
the head of the army in Etruria, in which all Campania some expendable troops reinforced a ward
and at least 60,000 men, including about Thirds full Roman citizen counts; formed was also a twofold
Reserve, the first at Falerii, the second under the walls of the capital. The gathering place of the
Italians was Umbria, where the streets ran together from the Gallic, Etruscan and Sabellian
area; Umbria, the consuls had parts on the left, some on the right bank of the Tiber up abandon
their main force, while at the same time, the first reserve a movement against Etruria made to
perhaps the Etruscan troops from the place of the decision to defend to call home. The first
battle was not happy for from the Romans and their vanguard was defeated by the united Gauls and
Samnites in the area of ​​Chiusi. But those Diversion reached its end, less generous than the Samnites
by the debris their cities were pulled to the right battlefield, not to miss, remote on the news of
the invasion of the Roman reserve in Etruria, a large part Etruscan contingents of the Federal army,
and the ranks of these were very thinned, than on the eastern slope of the Apennines in Sentinum
was the decisive battle. Nevertheless, It was a hot day. On the right wing of the Romans, where
his two Rullianus Legions against the Samnite army, fought the battle was long without a decision.
On the left, the command of Publius Decius, was the Roman cavalry by the Gallic Chariot brought
into confusion, and already began to give way here and the legions. Since cried the priest
approached the consul Marcus Livius and told him the same time the head of the Roman Commander
and the enemy army of the underground gods consecrate, then most dense in the Clusters of the
Gauls rushing he sought and found death. Such a hero despair the high man, the beloved commander, was
not in vain. The fleeing soldiers were again, the bravest of the leaders after throwing himself
into the enemy ranks, to avenge him or to die with him, and just the right moment came, sent
by Rullianus, the consular Lucius Scipio, the Roman reserve on the endangered left wing. The excellent
Campanian cavalry, which was the Gauls in the flank and rear, was the decisive factor here, and
the Gauls fled, and finally departed from the Samnites, the commander Egnatius fell at the gate
of the camp. 9000 Roemer covered the battlefield, but the dearly bought Victory was worth such
a sacrifice. The coalition army was dissolved and thus the coalition itself; Umbria remained
in Roman power, the Gauls ran to the remnant of the Samnites, still in close order, pulled
from the Abruzzi to the homeland. Campania, the The Samnites were flooded during the Etruscan war,
was after its termination with little trouble re-occupied by the Romans. Etruria asked in the
following year 460 (294) for peace; Volsinii, Perusia, Arretium well at all and all the league
against Rome joined Cities praised ceasefire to four hundred months. But the Samnites thought
otherwise: they set are desperate to mute opposition to that of free men, the lucky and not
can force, but shameful. When in the year 460 (294) marched in the two Konsularheere Samnium,
they met with everywhere in the fiercest resistance, and yes, Marcus Atilius suffered a setback
at Luceria, and the Samnites in Campania could penetrate the territory of the Roman Colony Interamna
devastate the Liris. In the following year gave Lucius Papirius cursor Son of the hero of the
first Samnite war, and a large Spurius Carvilius at Aquilonia Battle against the Samnite army, the
core, the 16 000 Weissroecke, with holy Had sworn oaths to prefer death to escape. Meanwhile, the
inexorable fate asks not to oaths and desperate plea, the Romans conquered and stormed the
parties, in had fled the Samnites and their effects. Even after this great defeat the Confederates
fought back against the increasingly overpowering enemy for years with unprecedented Stamina
in their castles and mountains and even gained some advantage in detail, the old Rullianus arm was
tested again (462 292) mobilized against them, and Gavius ​​Pontius, Perhaps the son of the victor
of Caudium, gained even for his people one last victory, low enough to the Romans retaliated on
him by making him, as he was later captured, were executed in prison (463 291). But nothing
moved on in Italy, for the War, the Falerii 461 (293) began deserves little that name. Well
you did in Samnium the gaze longingly turn to Tarentum, which was still only able to provide assistance;
but they never came. They were the same reasons as before, the failure to act which Tarentum
brought about: the inner Miss Regiment and the repeated passage of the Roman Lucanians Party in 456
(298), plus there was the not remain founded his fear of Agathocles Syracuse, who was just then at
the height of his power and started against Italy . Contact Around the year 455 (299) put
this on Kerkyra to determine from where Kleonymos by Demetrios the besiegers was now displaced and threatened
by the Adriatic from the Ionian Sea as her the Tarentines. The cession of the island to King Pyrrhus
of Epirus in 459 (295) eliminated However, for the most part, the cherished concerns, but the
kerkyraeischen Affairs continued to deal with the Tarentines as for in the year 464 (290) the
King Pyrrhus in possession of the island helped protect against Demetrius, and also heard not to
Agathocles, to be alarmed by his Italian policy Tarentines. When he died (465 289) and with
him the power of Syracuse in Italy perished, it was too late; Samnium, the thirty-seven Battle-weary,
had the year before (464 290) with the Roman Consul Manius Curius dentate Peace was concluded
and renewed in form an alliance with Rome. This time, too, were as in Peace of 450 (304) to the
brave people of the Romans not shameful or destructive Conditions found, not even territorial concessions
appear to have taken place.
 Nowhere can I rest
or rest. My mind was never on our counting-out - to know quite well - in the life of my spirit
always remained within the narrow limits of our haggling cave, and traveled widely lie ahead of
me. "

Scrooge had a habit, when he became thoughtful, to put his hand in his pocket. About what the
spirit said, musing, he did so well now, but without the eyes To
rise from a chair or stand up.

"You feel you have a lot of time but have taken, Jacob," he remarked
in a tone of a businessman, although with great humility and reverence.

"A

lot of time," said the spirit.

"Seven years dead," she said thoughtfully Scrooge.

"And all the while traveling."

"The whole time," said the spirit. "Without peace, without peace and with the torment of eternal
remorse."

"You can travel quickly," said Scrooge.

"On the wings of the wind," said the spirit.

"You'd be able to travel a great distance in seven years," said Scrooge.

When

the spirit heard this, he came back a cry, and clanked so horribly with his Range through the
grave silence of the night that him for the police with full rights
tranquility could have been punished.

"Oh, captured and tied up," cried the ghost, not knowing "that the era of incessant Work of mortal
creatures pass before the good, which the earth is capable of developing
to can, not knowing that a Christian spirit, and though he in no matter
how small Circle of love works, in this earthly life can find themselves
rewarding work enough!

But I did not know, oh, I did not know it! "

"But you were always a good businessman, Jacob," faltered Scrooge, trembling, now began to
apply the fate of the mind to itself.

"Business," cried the ghost, wringing its hands again.

"Man was my business. The general well-being was my business; mercy,
forgiveness and love, all that was my business.

Everything I did in my business was only a small drop of water in
the vast ocean of my business.

"

He held his chain in front of him, as if this is the cause of his pain was useless was, and threw
them down again booming.

"At this time of waning year," said the ghost, "I suffer the most. Why I went to Earth looking
eyes through the crowd of my fellow human beings and turned my Never look up at the blessed star which
led the wise men to the apartment of poverty?

Was there no humble cottage, where I would be able to guide light? "

Scrooge listened with horror the ghost talk and began to tremble very
much.

"Hear me," cried the Spirit.

"My time is almost over."

"I want to hear," said Scrooge. "But do it graciously with me!

Do not get excited, Jacob, I beg you. "

"How is it that I can come up against you in a visible form, I do not know. Many, many days I have
sat invisible beside you. "

This was not a pleasant thought. Scrooge shivered, and wiped the sweat from his brow.

"It's not an easy part of my penance," pursued the Ghost. "Tonight I come to you to warn you that
there is still a possibility exists for you to escape my fate. A possibility and a hope that
you owe me.

"

"You are always my good friend," said Scrooge. "I thank you."

"Three spirits," went on the ghost, "will come to you." With these words, was Scrooge Even sadder
than the sight of the ghost.

"Is that the possibility and hope you mentioned, Jacob?" He asked
in a trembling Voice.

"Yes."

"I - I would think that would be just no hope, 'said Scrooge.

"Without their presence," said the Spirit, "you can not hope to avoid the path that I must follow.
Expect the first morning when the bell strikes One. "

"I could not take all to a drink?" Said Scrooge.

"Expect the second the next night at the same hour.

The third in the next Night when the last stroke has died away twelve. Look at me, because you
do not see me left, and look at me, that thou thy sake up to participate in the recall, what happened
between us is. "

When she had spoken these words, the ghost took the cloth from the table and tied it again
to the head.

Scrooge knew this by the grinding of teeth when the jaws folded together.

He dared to raise his eyes and saw his supernatural visit the right
to stand, his eyes still fixed on him, and the chain around his waist
and the arm wound.

The apparition away walking backwards, and with each step, opened the window a little so that
when it reached the ghost, it was wide open. It beckoned Scrooge closer to get what he did. When
they were still two steps away from each other, picked Marley Spirit's
hand in the air, commanding him not to come closer.

Scrooge stopped.

Less out of obedience, as in surprise and fear for how the ghostly hand rose, he heard confused
sounds whizzing through the air and incoherent sounds of lamentation
and suffering unspeakable pain and full of remorse.

The ghost was listening to them for a while and then voted into the dirge, and then it hung
out into the dark night.

Scrooge went to the window, driven by curiosity to desperation. He looked out.

The air was filled with shadows, which in restless haste, and moaning floated back and forth. Each
wore a chain, like Marley's ghost, a few were forged (probably guilty ministries), none was
completely unfettered. Many were Scrooge during their life been known. That's right, he had known
an old spirit in a white waistcoat, which a huge iron money box herschleppte behind and screamed
piteously, a poor old woman with a child not being able to stand by that below a threshold
of the door sat. It clearly saw her pain was to have to strive for nothing, good for people to
do and the power to be lost for ever to have.

Whether these creatures in the mist melted away, or whether they enveloped the fog, he did not
say. But they and their ghosts votes passed at the same time and the night was again so as
she had been on his way home.

Scrooge closed the window and looked at the door through which came
in the ghost was.

She was still closed and locked, as before. He tried to say stupid stuff, but got stuck at the
first syllable, and as he inward from the movement, or the efforts of the day, or by his insight
into the invisible world, or the conversation with the Ghost, or the late hour was very tired,
he went straight to bed without undress, and soon fell asleep.

CHAPTER II.

The first of the three spirits.

When Scrooge awoke, it was so dark, that he hardly the transparent
window could distinguish the walls of his room.

He tried the darkness with his to penetrate cats eyes as the bell
of a tower quartered in the neighborhood.

He listened to hear the hour strike.

To his great surprise hit on the bell six to seven, and seven to
eight to twelve, and so on, then she was silent.

Twelve! It was two was over when he had gone to bed. The movement was wrong . Go An icicle must
have come between the wheels.

Twelve!

He pressed the spring of his repeater, to nachzuhelfen of crazy stuff. Her small, living pulse
beat twelve, and said nothing.

"What! it is not possible, "said Scrooge," I should throughout the day and late into the Another
night sleep? It's not possible that something happened and the sun that it is at twelve noon.
"

deals with the troubled mind, he got out of bed and padded to the window. He had to scrape the
ice first and wipe the window with the sleeve of his dressing gown, before he could see something,
and afterwards he could see very little. All he perceive could, was that it was very foggy and
very cold, and that it is not the noise, and heard her excitement as people who had yet taken place,
certainly, if night drove the bright day and had even taken possession of the world. That
was a great comfort, because "three days after View that you pay to Mr. Ebenezer Scrooge Prima exchange
or to the order, etc. " been a mere United States security would be if there were no more days,
then to to count.

Scrooge went back to bed and thought about it back and forth, but could not conclude . Come The
more he thought about it, the more confused he became, and the more he strove, not think, the
more he thought about it. Marley's spirit made him much trouble. Always if he had come after
careful consideration to the firm determination, all for only to keep a dream, flew from his mind
like a strong spring pressure relieved back into the old position back, and put the same question
and again he had thought about it ten times: Was it a dream or not?

Scrooge remained in this state are up again struck three quarters.

Then he remembered suddenly that the Spirit had been promised an
appearance by one stroke.

Been decided it to stay awake until the hour was over, and when one considers that he is as
little sleep, as could go to heaven, this was certainly the wisest
decision to take the he could.

The quarter hour was so long that it seemed to him more than once,
he would suddenly in sleep be dropped and the clock have stopped.

At last his listening ear heard the bell.

"Bim, tree!"

"A quarter," said Scrooge, counting.

"Bim, tree!"

"Half," said Scrooge.

"Bim, tree!"

"Three quarters," said Scrooge.

"Bim, tree!"

"Full," Scrooge exclaimed joyously, "and nothing more!"

He said that before the hour bell struck what it now with a deep, hollow, melancholy One that.
At the same moment it was light in the room and the curtains of his bed were opened.

I tell it to you, the curtains of his bed were pulled away from a single source, not the curtains
his feet, not the curtains behind his back, but the curtains against
which his face turned, the curtains were pulled away, and Scrooge,
looking to his feet, the unearthly guest in the face, she had opened,
so close he was standing over him, I am now in a spirit next to you.

It was a wonderful shape, like a child, but not really equal to a Child, but more like an old
man, who appeared with a wonderful spell, as he was the eye has become
so small and removed in this way as a child.

His hair, which in long curls on his shoulders herabwallte was white, like the age, but yet
had the Not a single wrinkle face around the chin and noticed one
of the most delicate fluff.

The arms were long and muscular, the hands as well as a tremendous force lies in them. His
feet, delicate and finely formed, were, like the arms bare. The Spirit wore a tunic of the purest
white; and to put his body in a belt by a wonderful cast. He gave a fresh green Holly oak branch
in hand, but in a strange contradiction with the spirit of winter
the dress was decorated with summer flowers.

The wonderful thing was that on the crown to his Head a bright beam
of light shot into the air, which lit up everything around, and what
certainly the cause was that the mind is less good humor a big Lichtauslöscher,
now he was wearing under his arm, put on a hat.

But even this was not its strangest quality.

For as the belt of the mind now glittered and sparkled at this point
and now at that, and how what at the moment light had been, was now
dark, so is the shape of turning themselves, no one knew as follows:
it was now a thing with one arm, now with one leg, now with twenty
legs, now only two feet off the head, now a head without a body, and
as a part of this disappeared, was no trace of him back in the thick
darkness which received him.

And the largest It was wonderful: the figure remained the same.

"Are you the spirit whose appearance was foretold to me," asked Scrooge.

"I am."

The voice was soft and melodious and as quietly as if it came not from the densest area, but
from a distance.

"Who and what are you?" Asked Scrooge, a bit more confidence collectively.

"I am the Ghost of Christmas Past."

"The long-gone," asked Scrooge, his dwarfish form of thinking.

"No, your past."

Perhaps Scrooge could say no one can see why, if he would have asked someone, but He felt a special
desire to see the Spirit in his cap, and he asked him to to cover up.

"What?" Cried the Spirit, "if you want to carnal hand the light that I donate extinguished?
Is not it enough that you're one of those whose passions this Hat
have created, and force me to cover by a long, long years, my forehead
with it? "

Scrooge reverently apologized that he had not had the
will to insult him, and claimed not to know that he would get ever
in his life to the spirit of reason given have to cover themselves.
Then he took the liberty to ask what led him here.

"Your well-being,"
said the spirit.

Scrooge expressed his gratitude, but could nevertheless
not help thinking, that undisturbed sleep a night would have benefited
him more. The mind had to have it listen, think, because he immediately
said, "Your improvement also. Take care! "

He stretched out his strong
hand as he said this and grabbed his arm gently.

"Get up and follow
me."

Scrooge would have objected in vain, weather and time is poorly
suited for walking; the bed was warm and the thermometer a long way
below the freezing point, he was only slightly in slippers, dressing
gown and nightcap dressed and have a cold right now. The Handle, he
was as gentle as that of a woman's hand was not to resist. He got
up, but what he saw that the Spirit moved to the window, he took him
pleading with the dress.

"I am a mortal," I said Scrooge, "can fall."

"Tolerate
just a touch of my hand there," said the spirit, by giving it to the
hand Put heart, "and you will overcome greater dangers than this one."

As
these words were spoken, the two disappeared through the walls and
were suddenly outside on the road, was surrounded by fields. The city
was completely gone. No Track was more of it left. The darkness and
the mist had vanished with it, because it was now a clear, cold winter
and the ground was covered with white, virgin snow.

"Good heavens,"
cried Scrooge, folding his hands as he looked around. "Here I was
born. Here I lived as a boy. "

The spirit looked at him with gentle
eyes. His gentle touch, though they only quiet and was instantly sounded
still looking into the heart of the old man. He felt like a thousand
scents floating through the air, each with a thousand thoughts and
hopes and joys and concerns associated that had a long, long forgotten.

"Your
lips tremble," said the spirit. "What shines on your cheek?"

Scrooge
muttered, with an unusual halt in the voice, it is a warts and asked
the Spirit to lead him where he wanted.

"Do you remember the way?"
Asked the Spirit.

"Whether I remember his" cried Scrooge with fervor;?
"I could walk him blindly."

"Strange that you've forgotten him for
so many years," said the spirit. "Come!"

They walked along the road.
Scrooge knew every gate, every post, every tree again to a small market
town in the distance with its church, its bridge and the river bright
appeared. Then came some boys, riding on shaggy ponies, up to her,
what other Boys in rural car shouting loudly. All these boys were
even cheerful and loud, the broad fields were so full of cheerful
music, that the cold, sunny air, laughed to hear them.

This "are
only shadows of things that have been," said the Spirit, "they know
nothing of us. "

The happy travelers came closer and now Scrooge
knew them all and they could all call them by name. Why was he rejoiced
beyond measure to see them, why was his cold Eye moist, why rejoiced
his heart, as she hurried to why his heart was soft; as they parted
at the crossroads of one another and wished a merry Christmas?

What
went merry Christmas to Scrooge? The devil take a merry Christmas!
What Benefits he had ever had it?

"The school is not left completely,"
said the spirit of "One child, an abandoned orphan, sits still lonely
there. "

Scrooge said he knew it. And he sobbed.

They left the high
road now on a well-known roads and soon reached a House of dark red
brick, with a small turret on the roof and a bell in it. It was a
large house, neglected and fallen now, because the spacious chambers
were little used, damp walls and green, the windows broken, the doors
were rotten and disintegrate. Chicken clucked and scratched in the
stables, and the carriage house was Grass.

"I could find out where Hasketh is," he said, naming the husband of his sister-in-law; "but
it would be of no use for me to go there. Further
reconnaissance in the direction of the lake Sary-Kamysh were held in 1871; the Fort Tschikischljar
at the mouth of Atrek was created.

936

Turkistan (East Turkestan: Geography).

In March 1873 Russia went to war now against Khiva (sd) a. In on 12 Aug. 1873 peace treaty,
the Amu-Delta and the right bank of the Amu-General T. incorporated as Amu Darya district.
Here was the progression Petro-Alerandrowsk, 2 ½ miles from right bank of the Amu Darya between Chanka
and Schurachana located. On the expedition against Khiva joins the campaign against the Russians
Khokand (sd). The Khanate was conquered and by command of 19th February 1876 incorporated the
territory as the Ferghana General T.. The temporarily assigned by the Russians in 1871 and taken
possession of the General T. Kuldschagebiet (sd) is but one small part by the Treaty of 2 (14) Feb 1881
returned to China. By decision of 25 May 1882 is finally the Semiretschinskische Oblaßtj of the General
T. diverted and the Akmollinskischen and Semipalatinsk Oblaßtj combined
into a General steppes, with the Tobolsk and Tom Kischen Military
District forms the government of Omsk.

Second East Turkestan.

East Turkestan (Chinese Thianschan Nanlu, "way south of the Thianschan", Turkish or Altischahar
Dschitischahar, otherwise also Kashgaria) is between 36-43 ° north and 73-92 ° east L. v. Gr.
or between the mountains of Tibet in Randa S., Thianschan in the N., the Alai and Pamir plateau
with the Kisiljart as Edge Mountains to the W., while in O. the kingdom in the Gobi Desert expires
and an area of ​​1,118,713 square km (20.135 SQM) has what is most uninhabitable. At the foot
of the mountains on the border, over which lead nowhere Paßübergänge below 3400 m, is the arable
land, one to the interior of the chamfering inclined plane, by many Rivers irrigated, but only
for all fishing boats (in the lower part) navigable, but are rich in fish. The deepest part of
the country's steppes and deserts take one (700-1200 m above sea level. M.) from flowing from Thianschan:
Kaidugol, Scharjar and Kisilkungai (Aksu); of Kisiljart: Kashgar, Jamunjar; the Karakorum: Yarkand
and Karakasch, Chotanfluß later called, they all unite in Tarim, in the swamps and freshwater
lakes of the first 1877 of Prschewalskij traffic Lobsees finds his end. The climate indicate very
dry, more or less dense, with desert dust offset scent that disappears very rare, severe, or
North Northwest winds in spring and autumn, calm at other times, intense heat in summer, severe Cold
in winter. In summer, dryness of the air and radiation of the heated soil Work in the sunshine impossible,
you watch neither laborers nor support or journey on foot; the heat of August has an average
of 26 ° E. in the shade. In winter the thermometer falls of the spring goes rapidly in the summer,
as is the fall in the winter, up to -25 ° C.. In the plane we sow the winter crop in late
August, summer fruit in early April and harvested in July. Yarkand for the mean annual temperature
of 12.2 ° C. is estimated (accurate calculations give Bkanfords "Indianmeteorological memoirs,"
lime. 1877). The gold and Nephritlager Khotan were already famous in ancient times, excellent coal
are burned in Aksu and Turfan. From Iron, copper, alum, lead productive warehouse known, but
which will be exploited nor bad; Salt makes it very imperfectly dried peat soil dar. The high
mountains provide juicy fat pastures, followed by deeper down thickets of juniper, willow,
tamarisk, roses etc., with a tall poplar trees. In non-cultivated parts of the plane and the
Deserts, the vegetation is very sparse, in the arable land on the other hand there is abundant
growth. Main crops are: wheat, barley, maize and sorghum, the rice, cotton, flax and hemp
as a web of plants, grown poppy for opium production hard. The gardens are our Vegetables and
fruits planted, and it also mature fig and pomegranate, the grapevine is drawn on a trellis and
covered in winter, silk found in the S. and SW. instead. The animal kingdom shows a lot of peculiar.
In the surroundings of the Lobsees there are still wild camels, wild horses and steers in the
high mountains, the great wild sheep (Ovis Ammon), stately deer, antelope and rabbits, then tiger,
panther, lynx, foxes and wild boar in the thickets on the river banks. Many swans and water birds
live on the banks of Lobsees. Pets: Yak (Yak), camel, horse, donkey, sheep, swine, dogs, cats,
chickens and pigeons, large herds of cattle are numerous. The horse is small but very persistent.
Mules are rare, but are Sheep kept in large numbers, and wool and meat are the same award (the
first one Main export items). The Gewerbthätigkeit is insignificant, the famous old tissue culture
and weaving in Khotan has expired; sought abroad are felt and carpets, inside the usual national
coarse cotton fabrics. The trade was otherwise inferior to China and Amounts to Khokand and Mongolia.
Since 1867 the English made great efforts set up a traffic with India, translated into Leh a
commercial agent, improved access by the Tibet (Ladak) and obtained 1873 Yarkand the conclusion
of a favorable Commercial contract with a relatively low tariff rates (2 ½ per cent value
set) and the approval an Englishman in Kashgar as a Consular. Was formed in 1874 with headquarters
in Lahore Central Asian trading company shares held every two years, a large caravan to Kashgar
and they can be cleared for return loaded next year. This company has invigorating intervened,
and the turnover in 1867 almost 1 million marks was evaluated in 1874 already risen to 2 ½ million
marks. Similarly, major efforts to Turkestan, with his goods, makes Russia. By 14 Feb. 1881,
China has signed contract with the same Acquired rights, in addition to the already existing consulates
in Ili, Tarbagatai, Kashgar and Urga to erect such in Sutschshan and Turfan. Russian subjects
have the right to, in effecting the Ili, Tarbagatai, Kashgar, drive Noumzi trade without paying
duties.

The population is approximately 580,000 souls, is the most densely populated province of Yarkand. Urban
and rural population in the outer and noticeable differences in the way of life. In the cities there
has been extensive mix of many nationalities, "everything one can say is that Tatar (Mongolian)
blood outweighs that Turkblut in greater or lesser amount is added, and that foreign-Tajik
(Persian) forms more or disseminated less thick

937

Turkistan (East Turkestan: History).

are, whatever the job,
the great body showing facial features, from the Tatar and Manchu,
from Kalmuk and Kyrgyz mixed and attributed none of these nations
are determined.

The size is in men 1.62, women 1.51 m, the skin color of hell, the
sedentary rural population is Turkabstammung and represents the old
Hiungnu or Uighur, the Huns of Attila attacking troops, the human
impact is added to the W. significantly Aryan blood, which expresses
itself in stature, facial features and Bart abundance.

Even today, sitting pure Aryans in the Hochthälern, reduce the drag from Mustag (Karakorum),
no doubt remains of the Indo-European Urrasse that once inhabited the western slopes of Thianschan.
Kyrgyz real drag around the country around and graze the plains in the mountains from, the Kalmyk sit
in the lowlands and swamps in Lobdistrikt. The language is Turkish with many ancient Forms
(cf. Shaw, Turkish language as spoken in Kashgar and Yarkand, Lahore, 1875). The food is almost
the same as among Europeans, to eat everything that is edible, especially meat and fish in
large quantities. The drink is tea, roasted beverages are prohibited. The Shall consist of shirts, pants
and over a long skirt, her feet stuck in both sexes in shoes or boots, a hat protects the head.
The women wear shirt, pants, wide Kittel, long skirt and shoulder throw, a low cap on his head.
The morals is indifference to feminine modesty, to race and creed on. Between 14 and 16 Year sees the
engagement, divorce, the wife of the man is often and is almost operated as a business. The religion
is Islam, but the centuries-long Belonging to China resulted in lukewarm faith. After Jakub Beg
(see below), the government had acquired, he kept strictly to the performance of all customs
of the Muslim faith. Only that he suffered in the country, and the Kalmyk, however there was an
exception. He had it all on to reintroduce austerity. Since then the Chinese are masters again
attacked Earlier, the loose morality of place again.

[History.] The history of East Turkistan ranges up to 2 Century BC, then subjugated the Chinese,
who in any case already for a long time relationship with East Turkestan had this as the other side
of the mountain lying Khokand, and though China's relations were interrupted at times to East Turkistan,
yet commanded throughout China until the incident the Mongols, the religion was in the first period
of Buddhism, here in the 5th and 7 Century AD wide famous monasteries were built, and old Christian
communities (Nestorians) were it. In the 8th Cent (713 to Arab sources) over the Arabs moved
east to Terekpaß Turfan Buddhism lasted but, until the middle of
the 10th Century took Satuk (also Ilikchan), the in Kashgar ruling
(Turks) Prince of Islam.

This Satuk united all Turkish Tribes under his scepter, overlaid Bokhara, Khiva himself, with
war and died in 1037, an attack, the ruler of Khotan on the left by Satuk Reich made failed,
brought but disruption and facilitated the Mongols victory. 1218-Genghis Khan overlaid with its
East Turkistan droves, and the ruling families, whom the government in Kashgar, Yarkand, Khotan,
etc. was left or fell in the way of rebellion were, from now on in greater or less depending on
the Mongol rulers of the Dschagataidynastie lay also in constant strife, and had repeated struggles
to survive with the Tibetans. The Islamic clergy gained since the 14th Century big influence, was
in Kashgar from their boards of directors (Khoja, Chwadscha) a party of the White Mountains
and the Black Mountains, was the former mid-17th Century with the help of her unwilling ruler
from there displaced, turned to the Kalmückenchan the Dzungaria and persuaded that this 1678 against
Kashgar moved and began their leader as vassals. 1757 the Chinese occupied under enormous Bloodshed
the country. The Chodschas found refuge in neighboring Khokand, and its members used with the
consent of the natives and with the support of the Khan of Khokand every opportunity to wrest the
Chinese rule again. Madalichan of Khokand moved Kashgar in 1820 against himself and took it,
though he used as the Regent Chodscha not hold against the Chinese tonnte, but then saw the latter
causes, 1831 Madalichan conclude a contract. Main requirement was to monitor the Chodschas.
As however, had ascended the throne in 1846 Chudojarchan of Khokand brought this on her new Featuring
a bunch of seven Chodschas came into existence, but had no success, nor the Further attempt in
1855 and 1856. New bloodshed in 1857 brought temporary success Walichans incident, the same
was 26th Aug. of this year, unfortunately our country, Adolf von Schlagintweit (Sd) for victims,
the first European to Kashgar from India reached. From now on, but the country was no longer to rest,
a small revolution followed another. The revolt of the Dungan (sd) was such a success that the Chinese
in 1863, only the citadel could think of Kashgar and Yarkand and in the city Jani-Hissar. In
1862 had quickly Eddin-Khoja the "Hasawat" (holy war) declared to the Chinese, and early 1864,
he was already recognized as ruler of Kashgaria. But as quickly Eddin no direct successors in Kashgaria
Chodschas ruling was so soon came towards him a hostile party. At the head of the latter are
presented Sadyk Beg This turned to the time in Tashkent and Khokand ruling Alim Kul with the
request in the very popular Kashgaria Busuruk-Khoja To send, where he wanted to help to rule.
1864 Busuruk was accompanied a retinue of 50 men, among whom was Jakub Beg (qv), as a commander,
in the gates of Kashgar, and was received with joy. Sadyk Beg gave him the rule. Jakub Beg knew
very soon to replace Sadyk and was appointed commander in chief. The Organization of the army
was his first work, he soon had several thousand men together; which at the siege of the still
occupied by the Chinese citadel of Kashgar arms trade were practiced. Soon, quickly rejected
Eddin-Khoja, who reigned in the east of Aksu, Abd ur Rahman, the ruler of Yarkand, and the cities
of Aksu, Kucha and Khotan to Busuruk on. Jakub Beg defeated their troops and reached a final in 1865 in the
possession of the citadel of Kashgar. The weak Busuruk, not in a position to oppose Jakub handed
to him now all transactions. A revolt of the

938

Turkistan - Turkmen.

Kipchak was in league with what Busuruk was overthrown by Jakub he sat Busuruk from, rose in his
place Kattatjura, the same poisoned but after four months and Busuruk sat again as a Chan. 1866
and 1867 Jakub had the districts of Kashgar, Jangi-Hissar, Yarkand and Khotan brought under
his rule. Busuruk has now been discontinued and Jakub proclaimed as Chan. He called himself the ruler
of the beginning "Alti Shahar" (sd) then "Dschiti Shahar. First he was given the title "Ghazi
Atalik" ("Defender of the Faith) and finally "Badaulet" ("the lucky"). His only opponent was
quickly Kashgaria Eddin in Aksu, against whom he turned 1867th By evening was the same in the
violence Jakub, was Aksu killed and taken, as well Kurlja. With the Dungan, a contract was
closed and the boundary between them and Kashgaria fixed.

Soon, however, were those with the arrangements not satisfied, they
crossed the border, were also victorious at first, but were eventually
but beaten by Jakub, who now Kunja-Turfan and Urumchi (1869 to 1870)
in his Violence brought.

A second again thrown down the Dungan revolt was still 1872 Manasseh
come into his power.

1872-1876 Kashgaria finally enjoyed the rest, and Jakub was by Turks and the English recognized
as emir. The Chinese succeeded by now, after the Dungan and to put down and regain even Manasseh
and Urumchi. In winter 1876-1877 were The Chinese Urumchi, Jakub Beg occupied the small fortress
Dawantschi. The troops of the latter were morally become noticeably worse: the desertion was
rampant, and even the most devoted servant until then could no longer count Jakub. The defectors
were by the Chinese, very friendly. On 3 April 1877, the Chinese moved from Urumchi against Diwan
of Chi, and after three days of weak defense, it turned out well Kunja-Turfan. Proceeded with the prisoners,
the Chinese commander Lutscha is very clever that he was released in part and assured them that
he only war with Jakub Beg lead. To prevent the spread of these messages, a large proportion
of returned Prisoners at the behest of Badaulet murdered. This measure aroused throughout Kashgaria
the most bitter hatred against Chan. On 28 May 1877 was against his secretary Jakub Chamal because Non-compliance
with instructions given so upset that he killed him. With its treasurer Sabir Achun proceed
as he wished, but was taken suddenly from stroke. The language and deprived of consciousness,
died 29th Jakub Beg May 2 clock in the morning (that he by his son killed or poisoned himself, fables).
Jakub left three sons, Bik Kuly Beg, Chak Kuly Beg and Chakim Chan Tjurja. Chak Beg Kuly was
when he and the body of his father on the way to Kashgar was the envoy of his eldest brother,
Machmed siapanssat, murdered. Kashgaria was now under three rulers: in Kashgar ruled Bik Kuly Beg,
in Aksu, and Khotan Chakim Chan Tjurja Nias Beg early October Bik Kuly Beg was after defeat the
two other supreme ruler. But he left as a refugee in the country that Jakub Beg began to play
a big role, as the beginning of December, the Chinese against Kashgar subject. With their entry here
they are again become masters of the country: Kashgaria is now been fully transferred into the possession
of China. See Gregorjew, East Turkistan (Russian, Petersb. 1873);. Wenjukow, the Russian-Asian
borderlands (German, Leipz 1874), Shaw, travel to the High Tartary (German, Jena 1872); Forsyth,
Report of a mission to Yarkand (calculated, 1875; German in the extract, Gotha, 1878), and especially
Kuropatkin, "Kaschgarja, historical and geographical Demolition "(Russian, Petersb 1879. English
edition, Lond 1883rd.).

Turkmen (Turkoman, Turkmen, Turk men of proper names and the suffix, "society", or "Turkish affairs");
the overall name for a set to the Turkish branch of the Altai associated tribes, their living
spaces and food sources are found in the arable land that rings like the one in the Space between
the Caspian and Amu Darya to the vast sandy desert Karakum surrounding neighborhood. The T. disintegrate
into several stems, branches, gender and families, which often is hostile to, their racial unity,
they have yet faithfully preserved. Originally were probably all T. nomads, but have the limitation
of their pasture terrain and their narrowing by the surrounding states, especially Russia, made a
part hereof to farmers. Often nomadic one part of the members of one family, while the other
drives agriculture and resident. The nomads are called Tschorwa, In the Tschomur residents. Loses
a Tschorwa his camels and sheep, he will Tschomur, while vice versa a Tschomur again Tschorwa
one can be. The various tribes are:

1) The Jomuden, that a main branch of the Kara Tschuka, between the rivers Atrek and cucumbers,
the other, Bairam-Shali (20,000 kibitkas), all living in Khiva.
 True love (as has been observed long ago) is just as carefully their to hide
bliss than those frosty love that coquetry or boredom to Mother, is eager, to trumpet their victories.
But this was neither the only nor the chief cause of restraint which our lovers, all applied
Muehe regardless of avoiding such a perceptive observer could not. The awareness of the Transformation,
which they had suffered, the fear of the strange appearance, which they give them in the eyes
of the sophist would like, and the fear of a mockery, before they mischievous effusions at
every glance, every smile expected, this was what she was in trouble, and what the greatest
faces in all of Ionia something Peevish was that for each other as a Hippias a sign that his
presence uncomfortable it should have been included. But this took it on for what it is in the Did
was, and since no one knew better life, he seemed so little notice to what they in was going on,
the unwary and careless made so of course, had as much of his trip and talk one thousand indifferent
things, and knew the meeting, such a free swing to give of cheerfulness, that she won all the time
necessary to recover again, and sit in a relaxed condition.
 I would, however, make
another choice, if you will. The guy gave me a high bid for Elisa. Had you the promised better?
"

"The wretch," Mrs. Shelby said with vehemence.

"I have heard him, of course, not for a moment, - out of respect for you I would not. Let me, then
at least as much happened to justice. "

"My dear," said Mrs. Shelby was accumulating, forgive "me.

I was surprised, and entirely unprepared for this news, but surely
you will allow me, a pronoun for these insert poor creatures.

Tom is a noble-hearted, faithful man, if he is black too. I think Shelby that, if it were necessary,
he would even willingly give his life for you. "

"I know it - I believe it - but what is all this? I can not help otherwise! "

"Why not bring an offering in money? I will gladly take my part in it. O, Shelby, I have tried
- conscientious effort, as a Christian woman should - my duty to to meet these poor, simple,
dependent creatures. I used to care for them, teaches them watched over them, and knew all
their little cares and joys for years, and how can I raise my head ever again below when we order
a small, pathetic Profit's sake, so faithful, excellent, trustfully being as poor Tom, To sell
and in a moment of it all, break free, what we value and love it have taught? I have taught
them the duties of the family, parents and children the husband and wife, and how can I bear
the thought of having to acknowledge publicly, that, as soon as it is the value of money is
to honor any obligation and no band, how sacred it ever may be. I spoke with Elisa on her boy, -
over their duty to watch him as a Christian mother about him to pray for him, and him to educate
on Christian principles, and what should I say, if you it from her snatches, and sell him,
soul and body, to a common man without any principles, - To win some money? I told her that
a human soul is worth more was, as all the money in the world and
how they can now believe my words, if they are in contradiction hereby
sell her child to see, - perhaps to save his Ruin of body and soul!

"

"I am sorry that you so much that you take to heart, Emily, - truly," said Mr. Shelby, "and I respect
your feelings if I do not even in their whole extent parts, but I assure you holy that it
is no good - I can not help otherwise. It was not my intention to tell you this, but to tell
the truth, it I have no other choice than either or both of them - to sell everything. Haley
is come into possession of a mortgage, which, if I do not pay off immediately all swallows.
I have scraped together and scraped what was possible, I have borrowed and All done, not just
begging, and the price of these two was just what was necessary to to cover the deficiency,
so I had to give it. Haley had on the children killed found, and would also address any other arrangement.
I was in his power and had do it. If it is so close to you, they sold to see, it would be better
if all would be sold?

"

Mrs. Shelby stood like a stroke stirred. Finally, again turning to her toilet, she covered her
face with both hands and sighed deeply.

"That is the curse of slavery! - A curse for men as for the slaves! I was a fool to believe
that I made such a deadly evil could still make something good. It is a sin, under laws like
ours, to hold slaves, and I always felt that, - I always thought that when I was still a girl
- I felt it more than I had entered the church association, but I
thought I could cover it with gold, I could through kindness, care
and instruction of the relation of my family do better than freedom
would be, - Fool that I was!

"

"But woman, yes you will, a complete Abolitionist."

"Abolitionist!
If those from slavery as much as I knew, so they want to talk. We
do not need them. ----------------------------------------- ^
4 The fact that the first plebeian consul 164 took to the Senate, is hardly a historical fact to
consider, but rather a testimony that the later Roman archaeologists prove no more than 136
Roman noble families could (Roman research 1, p. 121). -------------------------------------------
It was, as we see, in the community itself upon conversion of the Roman Empire to the Republic
where ever possible as before, as far as one can be Staatsumwaelzung at all conservative, this was
it and none of the constitutive elements of the community through them really about the heap been
thrown. It was indicative of the character of the whole movement. The expulsion of Tarquin was
not, as representing the miserable, deeply falsified reports it, the work of a drunken pity and Freiheitsenthusiasmus
people, but the work of two large, already in the ring stage and, the steady continuation
of their struggle is clearly aware political parties, the old bourgeois and the inmates, which,
like the British Tories and the Whigs in 1688, by the common danger in the community, the Willkuerregierung
convert a gentleman to see, were combined for a moment, then immediately again to become divided.
The Altbuergerschaft was without the new citizens of the kingdom to not discard, but the new
residents were not nearly powerful enough to those with a Blow the issue to wriggle out of
the hands. Such transactions are limited necessarily to as low a degree of mutual, through arduous
Abdingen obtained concessions and let the future decide how the focus of the constitutive elements
continue to ask how they mesh together or work against each other are. Therefore fails to the scope
of the first Roman Revolution certainly if one merely in their immediate Innovations, such
as only sees a change in the duration of the highest magistracy, the indirect effects were also
by far the main thing and most powerful, than even their authors they knew. This was the time
when, to put it in a word, the Roman Citizenship in the later sense of the word arose. The plebeians
had previously been inmates which one heranzog probably one of the taxes and burdens with,
but nevertheless in the eyes of the law nothing much was tolerated as strangers and their circle
against the actual foreigners keen to stake might seem hardly necessary. Now they have been conscripted
as a citizen enrolled in the lists, and even if they were of legal equality still distant, always
nor the old bourgeois to the Council of Elders constitutionally entitled Autoritaetshandlungen solely
and exclusively entitled to the civic offices and Priestertuemern selected, even the civic uses, for
example, the share of the common pasture, preferably advantageous remained, yet was the first
and hardest step to full compensation happened since the plebeians, not only in the municipal
levy served, but also in the municipal assembly and the local council in whose opinion survey agreed
and also the main and back poorest occupants protected as good as the old bourgeois became
principal by the legal challenge. One consequence of this merger of patricians and plebeians
to the new common Roman Citizenship has been the conversion of Altbuergerschaft into a noble family,
who, since the needle shaft also lost the right to decide in common assembly, because the recording new families
to the nobility by municipal decision seemed even less acceptable, everyone even the Selbstergaenzung
was incompetent. Among the kings was like seclusion the Roman nobility and the strange inclusion of new
gender was not too rare, and now put this right flag of the Junkers, a safe as the harbinger
of the impending Loss of his political privileges and its exclusive application in the community.
The exclusion of the plebeians from all Gemeindeaemtern and Gemeindepriestertuemern, while but
they were admitted to officer and councilor positions, and the tenacity with reversed firmly
held legal impossibility of a marriage between old bourgeois and plebeian pressured continue
the patricians from the start a stamp of exclusive and privileged absurd Adeltums on. A second
episode of the new civic integration, the tighter regulation establishment of both the Latin confederates
as compared to other states have been. Less of the voting rights in the Centuries because, after
all the only the Ansa vinegars approached, but because of the provocation law with which the plebeians,
but not to a time or should also be granted permanent abiding foreigners in Rome, it was necessary to
Terms of the acquisition of plebeian law more precise and extended Citizenship to complete turn
against the current non-citizens. So is this Period within the meaning and spirit of the people
of both the venom of the contrast between patricians and plebeians back as the sharp demarcation
of cives Romani and proud against the foreigners. But that was temporary Staedtische contrast,
this kind of permanent political and the feeling of national unity and the beginning of a great
power, which is hereby in the heart the nation was planted, expansive enough to undermine those
petty differences only fortzureissen and then in the omnipotent power with it. This was also
the time when law and regulation differed. Although reasoning behind the opposition in the
innermost essence of Roman state, for the Roman Koenig violence was not about the land law.
But the deep and practical piety, which the Romans, like any other political capacity People from
the cherished principle of authority, produced the remarkable record of the Roman State and private
law, not that anyone on a law founded in command of the officers at least remain in force
for the duration of his office, although he fell away with this. It is obvious that Here, as
long as the heads have been appointed for life, the difference between law Regulation and actually
had to almost disappear and the legislative activities of the municipal assembly could gain no
development. Conversely, they received a wide margin, since the head changed annually, and
there was now no practical meaning, that if the Consulted in the decision of a process, a legal nullity,
committed his successor could order a new instruction of the case. This was finally the time when
the bourgeois and the military force from each separately. There is the law, here the Ax,
where were the constitutional limitations on the provocation and its regulated Mandierung prevail ^
5, here turned to the commander as the absolute king. It turned themselves in, not that regularly,
the commander and the army as such, the actual city were allowed to enter. That organic and effective
provisions in the long run only under the rule of civic violence could be taken was not in the letter, but
in the spirit of Constitution, it seemed, however, that occasionally the contrary, the commander's
team in the camp to town meetings convened and legally void was not such a decision, but the
practice disapproved of this method and it was forbidden under soon, as it would be. The contrast
between the soldiers and the Quirites rooted firmly fixed in the minds and gradually of citizens.
-------------------------------------------------- ^ 5 ---- It may not be superfluous be noted
that even the iudicium quod imperio continetur legitimum as the Empire of the instructing
officials, and conducted the only difference is that the Empire there restricted by the Lex, but
here is free. -------------------------------------------------- ---- However, in order to develop
these new Folgesaetze of republicanism, it took time; how she felt alive for posterity, the fellow
liked the first in a revolution different light appear. Probably is not a citizen won by the
civil rights and won the new citizenship in the community meeting far-reaching powers, but the
rejection of law the patrician senate, the upper house as a sort those electors in solid unity
opposite was legally annulled the free movement of those most critical, especially in the Things
up and was actually not capable of the serious will of the whole to break, but to delay it and to
wither. Was the needle shaft by It gave up the town to be alone, not too much to have lost, they
had other relationships derived decision. The king was indeed as the Patrician Consul and
the right of Senator appointment is this like that too, but if those of its outstanding position
about patrician hinausrueckte no less than about plebeians and when he slightly in the case could come to just have
to bear against the needle to the quantity, was the consul Rulers in the short term, before
and after but no one from the nobility and the noble Fellow citizens, which he ordered today,
tomorrow, in obedience, not outside of his class and the nobles had to be far more powerful
than the officials in it. If so nevertheless as an exception one of the aristocracy disinclined patrician
was called to the regiment, so was his authority partly by the sheer nobility of spirit pervaded
priesthoods, and partly by the Colleagues easily paralyzed and suspended by the dictatorship,
and, more importantly, it he missed the first element of the political power that time. The
head of the community, Machtfuelle which should always be admitted to him that the political
violence in the never Get hands if he stays on longer time at the head of affairs, for the
necessary condition for any government is its duration. Way of life long follow-won Municipal
Council, principally through its power to officials in all respects to advise, not the select patrician,
but the more patrician-plebeian, the Years compared to rulers inevitably such an influence that
legal conditions are almost reversed, the council essentially took the power of government itself
and the former Regent sank to its chairman and executive president. For the the municipality for
acceptance or rejection of the request was submitted in the preliminary total Senate and approval
while not as constitutionally necessary, but habitually sanctified, and not easy and do not like you went
over it. For important Staatsvertraege, for the management and distribution of common land at all,
for any act, the consequences be extended over the year in office, was the same, and the consul
remained nothing but the execution of current business, the initiation of civil litigation
and the command in war. Before all was the momentous innovation that neither the consul nor even
the otherwise unlimited Dictator was able to challenge the common treasure otherwise than by
and through the will of the Council. By the senate the consuls to duty, made the administration
of the municipal treasury to the Koenig himself had led, or at least had, can lead to two permanent
sub Officials leave, which were indeed appointed by the consuls and to obey them, but had understandably
far more than the consuls themselves were dependent by the Senate, he drew the line with cash
management in itself, and it can that money right to approve of the Roman Senate, probably in its effects
together with the right to approve taxes in the current constitutional monarchies be. The implications
are self-The first and most essential condition of every aristocracy is that the Machtfuelle
in the state not an individual but of a corporation is entitled; now had a predominantly aristocratic
corporation, the municipal council, the regiment moved to the while the executive power was
left not only the nobility but also of the ruling Corporation was subject completely. While sitting
in the Council a notable number of not-noble Men, but because it incapable of clothing of offices,
and even participating in the debate, therefore excluded from any share of the regiment were practical,
they played necessarily and the Senate a minor role and were translated by this economically
important Right to use the common pasture in pecuniary dependence held by the corporation. The gradually
forming the right patrician consuls, at least every fourth year Councilman list revise and modify, so
it probably void the needle shaft opposite was, but could very well used in their interests
and the unpopular plebeians by means of the same kept out of the Senate and even excreted.
It is therefore quite true that the immediate consequence of the revolution, the observation of nobility has
been, only it is not the whole truth. If the majority of my contemporaries liked that the revolution
had brought the plebeians only a rigid despotism, so see Later that we even have the buds of the
young freedom. What won the patricians, the community was not lost, but the officials violence,
the community did win a few engbeschraenkte rights, which were far less practical and palpable as the achievements
the nobility, and what did not know to appreciate by a thousand, but was in them the guarantee
of the future. So far, nothing political was the occupant shaft, the Altbuergerschaft everything
was, by now that the community was, was the Altbuergerschaft overcome, for how much might still
be a lack of full civil equality, it is the first breach, not the occupation of the last item, which
decides the case, the fortress. Therefore, dated the Roman community with their legal political
existence by the beginning of the Consulate. However, when the Republican revolution initially in
spite of the dominance they established Junker with law, a victory of the previous occupant
of the plebs or stem can be given, this was but also in the latter respect the character of
the revolution means that we nowadays be described as democratic are used to. The purely personal
merit without support of birth and wealth had probably easier to rule than under that of the
king the patricians to the influence and reputation go. At that time the entrance to the upper
class in law not closed, and now was the highest goal of the plebeian ambition to be included
in the mouth of the dead Annex Senate.
 The T. has its influence on the functions organs
of the body of substantial importance for the health, both through exercise, strength Resilience
and disease prevention as antagonistic occurring disorders of the organism. Turn the system is
thus an important part of looking at public health care Aspirations. But since body and mind
as part of the same organism in constant interaction available, the physical training is mandatory
not only to the body's sake, but the T. can not and will also be part of their mental energy
and vigor, confidence in the body forces, male valor, moral help promote mastery of the body
with. In the name of an art which T. has only conditionally, but so far to claim, as they as architecture
and other art and crafts, in carrying out its a practical purpose serving exercises for beauty
of form sought. Also be some of their dance-like structures in the formation exercises, related
to certain forms of dance, often more pleasing to the design Created forms sake. In the context
of some with intellectual aspirations is significant that, as the Greek gymnastics at the highest intellectual
and much the most developed parts People of the ancient place, including the T. of a full-time mental
activity and the highest enthusiastic patriotic upsurge owes its impetus, and that their subsequent
fate show the changes of our national intellectual life closely.

[History.] Life is a certain degree, in any form bodily skill and
practice advance, and if one of monastic and ascetic to mortification
of the bodily-sensual-looking Aspirations aside, could misjudged the
benefits bodily strength and skill almost nowhere are indeed rather,
has the pleasure of bodily movement, in whatever form it be, yet at
all times asserted.

Therefore, are also found in Germany since the Middle Ages, where the desire to move the arms
trade to the federal government to combat and chivalrous medieval tournaments received was manifold
physical exercises in the various circles of our national life, to which often then needed to link
the cases only (see exercise), so even as a Type echo those chivalrous time, the swordsmanship
and vaulting (sd) on living or on simulated horse, as seen in universities and aristocratic schools; also
the more generally as a youth games and occasional public entertainment occurring Ball Games
(Sd), wrestling (sd), running race, including rock climbing, and finally special skills, such
as Swimming, skating and shooting the various exercises with crossbow and rifle fire. Physical
training for its own sake talked back first representative of the time before the Reformation
awakening humanistic studies the Word, which was also in this respect point to the example of
classical antiquity were, a testimony of such efforts is the book of Italian doctor Hieron. Mercurialis'
De arte gymnastica "(2nd edition 1573). That is to specifically address the education of physical
education's sake, advocated their neglect complained, here and there an attempt to bodily training
in hands, these are sayings and teachings of men like Luther, Zwingli, and Comenius Camerarius
the most significant. Also on the part of the realist philosophical approach they came because
of the effect of the sensible in the intellectual and to the requirement of a controlled physical
education, particularly as Locke his "Thoughts on Education" (1693) as the highest goal of education
to the healthy mind hinstellte in a healthy body. With even größerm Reproduction and far more general
effect, especially on the German educational system brought the same claim, JJ Rousseau (qv) in his
epoch-making educational novel "Emile" (1762), give an ideal natural education should face the
unnatural künstelnden education of his time. Partly under the influence Rousseau's ideas and other
self-excitation giving circles again, made in Germany Basedow in 1774 to Dessau launched,
philanthropist called reformatory also first attempt at a controlled physical training, which
he uses the substance part of the the Knights academies permanently in care received arts of dancing,
fencing, riding and horse jumping, partly at the suggestion of his agent John Friedr. Simon
of the Greek Gymnastics in the exercises of running, jumping, etc., and partly from military
movement forms gathered. From here, these exercises Salzmann transferred by him in 1784, founded
to Schnepfenthal Educational institution in which the physical education since 1786 with great
care and most sustainable Effect J. Chr. Guts Muth (sd) derived, which also belongs the great
merit in First published in 1793 his "Gymnastics for Youth" as not only an enthusiastic public
have occurred advocate of physical education, but also particularly in the busy he Investigate
and explore further dilated and parent training materials developed districts have to. At
the same time Vieth GUA was in Dessau (1763-1836) in his attempt to Encyclopedia of Physical Education
"(pt. 1 & 2, 1794-95; Tl 3 with addenda, 1818) both Overview of physical education in many nations
of ancient and modern times and the first attempt a systematic classification of physical exercises.
Pestalozzi also stood since 1807 in Switzerland, the task of physical education according to
ability to move the body parts following systematic plan to invent and practice. The absorbed. Tugendbund
(qv) in 1809 made the first attempt to establish a public place to turn brown mountain. But while
the suggestions given so far only very few isolated introduction of physical education and most
had led to closed educational institutions, it was the work of FL Jahn (see d.), with the deep
humiliation of Germany after the Napoleonic wars, especially in Prussia awakening serious quest
for a rebirth of our people and our national life and Military force, as it is especially in Alf's
"spirit of the times", in Fichte's Addresses to the German Nation ", in Jahns," Ethnicity ",
in Stein's reforms and the Gneisenau, Scharnhorst's plans establishing a universal military service,
showed the loud call for a "popular" to combine body art establishment with all its powerful,
youthful enthusiasm awakening personality in Berlin at the "T." the first public facility to
prepare. In

944

Gymnastics (banking institutions, teaching).

Spring 1811 was opened by him in the gymnasium of the hare heath near Berlin, from the by his students
the seeds of a truly youthful, the boys in their full strength gripping body art soon after other
places in Germany, especially to the universities were Halle, Jena
and Breslau transplanted.

After the driving course at the gymnasium limited by the unrest following
the war years were also some of the most zealous disciples Turn the
thing, especially as Friedr.

Friesen (qv), had remained in the field, was the cause with renewed
enthusiasm and greater depth and viewing of the training material
up again.

The latter by introducing rich exploitation enabled devices, such as the stretching and Barrens
extended and raised above the area of ​​the common people more conventional exercises to have,
besides his concern for the linguistic description (see below) Jahns crucial technical services
to the T. The results of these efforts are of him in the 1816 his pupil E. Eiselen together
published "German T." deposited. In this Tent, in contrast to the expected liberal design of our
national life occurring Reaction against the thought, of course, filled with liberal and national
ideas, to But here and there unbound and non-cannibalized, boastful creatures on display cherish,
bearing Jahn Turner's troops have special mistrust. The dark side gymnastic and bustle of the
immature behavior of members of the close of the acrobatics Contact entertaining fraternities
on the Wartburgsest (October 18, 1817) prompted initially Turn the literary feud Breslauer, particularly
by Henrich Steffens (sd) and K. A. Menzel on opposing side, led to gymnastics was Franz Passow,
BC W. Harnisch (Sd) and Captain W. von Schmeling, the author of "The militia, founded on the
T. "According to Kotzebue's murder by the fraternity members and Sandy Turner (1819) was followed
by the closure all (80 +) Prussian, now also of most other German gymnastics places and Jahns
Arrest. Now, even during this period was the so-called. Turn lock to not a few Places continue
gymnastics, and especially, Ernst Eiselen (sd) services to the permanent care and internal
development of the T., Klumpp likewise in Stuttgart, HF Massmann (sd) in Munich was the real
lifeblood of the case by the exclusion of the public Jahns and prevented forced traffic away. Only
by Ignaz Lorin Sers (sd) Font "To protect health in the schools," caused controversy over
the school physical Injury to the youth through school education, and also the revival of German national
feeling by the French Rhine border cravings in the year 1840 and the simultaneous accession to
the throne Friedrich Wilhelm IV introduced for the gymnastics thing better times, by the Cabinet Order
of 6 June 1842, the physical exercises as a "necessary and indispensable component purpose the
male education "recognized Massmann and 1843 establishment of the physical education appointed
by the Prussian state to Berlin. However, while the latter in the traditions of Jahn's, a joint
participation of young and old prescient on the turn places So school and club gymnastics
yet distinctive turning operation LINKED closer than it is was consistent with the task of a
general introduction of gymnastics in schools was now by Adolf Spiess (sd), which opened up
the field of free and order exercises, the gymnastic exercise Steff structured systematically
and with regard for both the school gymnastics Gender had developed rich, have become the necessary
complement to the T. part to a school teaching subject generally go to the Introduction to.

[Bilduugsanstalten.
Teaching.] For the further development of the school gymnastics and the methodological Processing
of the training material was not without importance that the establishment of physical education
teacher training colleges, how to Dresden (1850) under the act as a fertile writer Turn Moritz
Kloss (who died in 1881, since then under beer) and the Prussian Central Gymnastics Institute
in Berlin. The latter, the 1851-77, the departments for the training of military and civilian
teachers Turn united sought to Rothstein's (qv) top line (to 1863) to blank (sd) System based,
so called. to bring to the introduction of Swedish gymnastics, but the part of the German T. decisively
and successfully fought and was more and more German Gymnastics made way in the civil division,
in 1877 into an independent gym teacher training college was converted under Charles Euler (sd)
mediation. For Württemberg is a gym teacher training college since 1862 in Stuttgart, Otto Hunter (qv), who introduced
a peculiar turn system for swimming since 1869 in Karlsruhe under
foot (sd) for Bayern Munich since 1872 Weber.

Also for gymnastic teachers, most recently the imaginary institutions offer appropriate Training opportunity.
In some smaller German states are physical education teacher training courses from time to time held
by appropriate staff. - The gym teacher meetings held taken place since 1861 in various places
ten, have lectures, talks and Demonstrations to promote physical education and clarification
of the principles applicable to it contributed.

The gym is now in Germany at the higher schools and seminars as well as generally, even though
in many areas because of inadequate in form, introduced, for the boys' primary schools, he has
been in the majority of countries in Prussia since 1862, in Baden, 1868, in Saxony since 1873, in Württemberg
since 1883, made compulsory by law, but leaves here still much to be desired in the rural schools in many places
is as good as everything else. By Physical education in girls' schools it has so far acted
only in most cities. In general limited the implementation of the school gymnastics to two
weekly lessons, and even this may due to lack of suitable winter gymnastics rooms still not available
all year continue through. School buildings in cities will now usually own school gyms. Besides the
school gymnastics are also on quite a few places still practiced gymnastics games, especially
Since the pertinent decree of the Prussian Minister von Gossler from October 1882. An overview
provides information on the development of physical education and his status for the year 1870,
"Statistics of the school gymnastics in Germany ", edited by IK Lion
(Leipzig, 1873);. cf.

Pawel, Short outline the developmental history of the German school gymnastics (Hof 1885).
See also Euler and Eckler, Regulations and official notices, which in turn being

945

Gymnastics (clubs, gymnastics outside of Germany).

Prussia on (Leipzig, 1869); Rud. Lion, regulations and official notices, the Turn on being in Bavaria
(2nd edition, Hof 1884). - In the Prussian army gymnastics by the "Instructions for the operation of gymnastics
and Bajonettfechtens in the infantry" of 1860 similar justification as the other branches of
service recognized and regulated. In place This 1871 law applicable to the entire German army instruction
occurred in 1876 "Regulations about the gymnastics of the infantry, "which appeared appeared in
1886 in a modified form. According to the place of the "Instructions for the operation of the
gym with the troops on horseback" from 1869 the "Regulations on the gymnastics of the troops on
horseback," from 1878.

[Clubs.] Also, the Turn Verein being has in the 40 years, more and
more gained ground, most rapidly in Saxony, on the middle Rhine and
in Württemberg, and the same is also the introduction the youth gymnastics
as the technical design of the turning operation was of great influence.

Special Education gave inspiration to the club after this too, after 1848, a check occurred,
the recovery of our national consciousness in 1859, the German sports meetings to Coburg (1860),
Berlin (1861) and Leipzig (1863) reported increases in participation and enthusiasm the newly awakened
life gymnastic expression and new inspiration. The number of clubs was of only 100 who had survived
to 1859, and 1864 to 1934 to 200 000 members increased. The wars of the next period had an inhibitory
effect on Vereinsthätigkeit, but was, while the statistics of 1869 only had around 1550 clubs,
the number already 1876 ​​has increased to 1789 from 160 000 members and was under constant
growth 1889 to 4300 with about 3600 places to 370 000 members over
14 years, of which 50.000 pupils.

Participated in gymnastics at 190.000 18.600 Vorturner even in the winter of 3400 Clubs; own turn
some have 512, 238 gyms own clubs. (See the "Statistical Yearbooks of the gymnastics clubs in Germany
"by G. Hirth 1863 and 1865, the third" Statistical Yearbook "by Goetz and Böhme 1871 and" Turn Zeitung
1889, No. 27) The great mass of these Clubs (currently 3850) is, after 1860 represented by
a permanent committee was redesigned in 1868, the German Gymnastics Association, the Basic
Law in 1875, 1883 and 1887 has been revised. The same is divided into 17 districts: District I comprises
the North East, II Silesia and Südposen, IIIa Pomerania, the Mark IIIb, IIIc, the province
of Saxony, the North IV, V Lower Weser and Ems, Hannover VI, VII Upper Weser, Lower Rhine and Westphalia
VIII, IX Middle Rhine, Upper Rhine X, Schwaben XI, XII of Bavaria, Thuringia, XIII, XIV, the Kingdom
of Saxony, XV German Austria. Each of these circles is particularly organized, divided into
districts and has at its Top of a circle representative. The latter form of five members elected
from Turntag the Committee of the German Gymnastics Association. At the top of the latter was from
1861 to 1887 Theodor Georgii (attorney in Esslingen, born in 1826 there well deserved and especially
to Turn the Swabian being; see his "Essays and Poems", ed. IK Lion, Court 1885); followed A. Maul
(sd). CEO of the German Gymnastics Association since 1861 to Turn the German case-deserved Dr.
Ferd. Goetz (born 1826 in Leipzig, practical Doctors in Lindenau, since 1887 Member of the
German Reichstag, see his "Essays and Poems, "Hof 1885). From the Members of the German Gymnastics
Association (on a 1,500 Turner) will usually formed every four years, held Turn days. The Gymnastics
Festival Rules shall include the provisions of the betting turn order (qv). More about the organization
Deutsche Turnerschaft see Goetz, Handbook of the German Gymnastics Association (3rd ed, Hof 1888).
The fourth German Gymnastics Festival has taken place in Bonn in 1872, the fifth in 1880 in Frankfurt,
the sixth in 1885 in Dresden, the latter two from 9800, respectively. 18.000 gymnasts attended
and great progress in those submitted in services having. The seventh, 1889 in Munich held
was attended by 21.000 gymnasts.

Physical exercises outside Germany.

The revival of gymnastics in the German T also has the most civilized countries outside Germany
controlled to maintain the physical exercises to stimulate and in many cases, the substance
given, in particular, the upturn of the German club and school gymnastics since 1859 war and
Germany's successes in the following years, in many cases, the Founded by German gymnastics clubs
abroad have been the cause, in Promoting and operation of physical exercises more or less closely
to connect to the lines of the German gymnastics. Even the effectiveness of Guts Muth found abroad
no less than in succession us. Thus, mainly in Denmark, the physical training the model for by
F. Nachtegall early entrance into school and the army and since then, less in club gymnastics,
distribution found. Here in 1827 physical education for all boys' schools was required. In
Denmark Basing has received suggestions, Sweden PH Ling (sd) a peculiar system of gymnastics
be established, in our so-called Swedish gymnastics, but in contrast
to the result of living Practice outgrown German T. due to dry, pseudo-scientific
anatomical and physiological speculations.

The same has, apart from its use as a therapeutic exercise (Sd),
temporarily out of Sweden by Rothstein (sd and above) found in Prussia
input.

At the schools of Sweden, at least the higher, now, not the exercise, more in the full one-sidedness
of Ling's system, maintained at adequate, as in Germany, they are also here and in Norway by
clubs (in Sweden i. J. 1885: 46 with 2500 members) operated. Most directly with the development
of the German T. addition to the educational institutions of the German Baltic provinces of
Russia being the turn of Austria and Switzerland went hand in hand. In the German states of Austria,
in front of all Transylvania gymnastics was maintained after the Napoleonic wars isolated in schools and
clubs, the Distrust of the authorities here after 1848 gradually gave a benevolent toleration
to the physical education since 1869 on all boys primary schools, almost universal in the real
institutions and was introduced by law in most cases at the high school. This was also essential
to a result of wide dissemination and indecent activity of the gymnastics clubs since 1860.
The latter remained with the German Gymnastics Association (as the XV. circle, see above) permanently

Conv-Meyers
Lexikon, 4 XV ed. Bd

60

946

Gymnastics (gymnastics equipment).

Logo and participate in their festivals. Even without such a common organization of the club Turn
the essence of Switzerland has been through work of men like spit and mouth (sd) close Maintain contact
with the German. Here, too, lie the seeds of later development, apart of the activity of the
excited by Guts Muth officer Phokion Heinrich Clias (Käslin; b. 1782, d. 1854), mainly in the
gymnastics club, especially at the German universities Strain, and already in 1832, a Federal
gymnastics club formed in the "sections" (1886: 122 to 6,000 members, also many free associations)
and divided since 1873 every two Years (previously every year) the federal Gymnastics Festival celebrates,
even in its 1855 competitions also in Switzerland has long been popular
arts of swinging, wrestling (sd) Including stone throwing were recorded
(see Niggeler, History of the Swiss Turn Verein, Bern 1882).

Also, the school gymnastics in Switzerland is due to the interaction
admirable physical education teacher, as Iselin, Niggeler, Jenny,
the German advanced accordingly. greater in some Cities go near him
nor the military, which seek to direct the education of youth absorbed.

Cadet Corps ago (see youth militias), the country is on the primary
issue is the educational background for the sake of the militia system
to the "gymnastics school for military Vorunterricht"

Introduction come.

From Switzerland, the T., and essentially due to the operation of
Spit, to Italy, had already borne fruit Guts Muthssche suggestions
transplanted, by Rud.

Obermann, (born in 1812 to Zurich, died in 1869 in Turin) called the 1833 to Turin has been the introduction
of the gym in the Sardinian army, but also the impetus for the proliferation the same in schools
and clubs, here in particular supported by the Count Ernesto Ricardi Tues Netro. In 1883 it was 143
to several federations united clubs with 17.000 members. For the higher schools gymnastics in
1861 when free, as for almost all schools in 1878 compulsory explained, and gradually comes to
implementation. Since 1863 there is a gym teacher training college in Turin, since 1888 in Rome.
In high schools in Greece is part of gymnastic, some military Lessons provided by 1862 and by
Act of 1883 came the introduction and in Athens a gym teacher training college was built. In renewal
of the Olympic Games popular competitions held here also. In Belgium and Holland for faint
beginnings emerged in the 30 years since 1860, both clubs with a large number of German T. borrowed operation
and an appropriate school gymnastics. In Belgium, included the Fédération belge de gymnastique
1888: 70 clubs with 7,000 members. In Holland there were in the same Year 230 clubs, of which
120 belonged to the Nederlandsch Verbond gymnastics. There are also Clubs for all sorts of
sports represented. The latter dominated in England no matter how much the Field with the maintenance
of applied skills, such as rowing, boxing and ball games that general gymnastics here except the army,
into which they have introduced Clias 1822-28 (see above) and won the associations founded
by Germans have not much ground. Sports and Games are maintained almost exclusively by the wealthy
minority. In France, a gymnastic Exercises, especially by the action of the excited by Pestalozzi
and Guts Muth Spaniard Amoros (1770-1847), primarily in the army and also provides input since then
mainly been maintained as an important branch of military education in and out of the army.
An even narrower connection of the physical education of young people in the army, led the learned
of 1870-71 in the form of student battalions, which are also more and more enemies here and a general
soft gymnastics.
 

"Do not be angry, uncle," said the nephew.

"What should I be different," said the uncle, "when I'm in a world full of such fools live? Merry
Christmas! The devil take the merry Christmas! What is Christmas different for you than a day
when you shall pay bills without having money, a day where you find yourself a year older and
richer not by an hour a day where you your Complete books and see in each line item by a round dozen
of months Deficit? If it were up to me, "said Scrooge violently," so everyone would have to fool
with his cheerful Christmas running around, cooked with his own pudding, and with a stake of
holly oak be buried in the heart.

"

"Uncle," said the nephew.

"Nephew," said the uncle vehemently, "do you celebrate Christmas in your way and let me after
my party. "

! »Holidays" repeated Scrooge's nephew, "but you do not celebrate."

"Leave me alone," said Scrooge. 'It may bring you benefit! much use it has you so. "

"It's a lot of things I had to use and gives that I have not used the white I, "answered the
nephew," and Christmas is one of those. But I am certain that I Christmas, when it has come apart
from the worship we his holy name and origin are guilty, always regarded
as a good time have, as a dear, as the time of forgiveness and mercy,
as the only time that I have in the whole long calendar know where
the people peaceably aufthun her closed heart and consider the other
people as if they really were fellow-travelers to the grave and not
another race of creatures that go a very different way.

And therefore, Uncle if it has never brought me a piece of the same gold or silver in my pocket
believe I however, it has done me good and it will do me good, and I say: God bless it, "

The servant in the Burgverließe applauded out involuntarily, but the moment it He also felt the impropriety
of his conduct, poked the coals, and extinguished the last little spark for ever.

"If you let me even hear a single sound," said Scrooge, "you celebrate
your Christmas with the loss of your body.

You are a very powerful speaker, "he added, to turning to his nephew. "It surprises me that you do
not come to parliament."

"Do not be angry, uncle.

Eat with us tomorrow. "

Scrooge said that he wanted to see him damned first, yes indeed, he spoke out very clearly from.

"But
why?" Cried Scrooge's nephew, "why?"

"Why did you married?"

Said Scrooge.

"Because I fell in love."

"Because he fell in love," growled Scrooge, as if that was the only
thing in the world, nor more ridiculous than a merry Christmas.

"Good afternoon!"

"But, Uncle, you got me so never visited before. Why should there be a reason for me now do not visit?
"

"Good afternoon," said Scrooge.

"I do not need anything from you, I ask nothing of you, why can not we good friends be? "

"Good afternoon," said Scrooge.

"I am really sorry from the heart to find you so stubborn.

We have never had a quarrel with each other had that I would have
been to blame.

But I've made the attempt, in honor of Christmas and I will keep my Christmas spirit to the last.
Merry Christmas, uncle! "

"Good afternoon," said Scrooge.

"And a Happy New Year!"

"Good afternoon,"
said Scrooge.

But the nephew left the room without an angry word.
At the front door, he stopped still, to greet with the congratulations
of the day the servant, the warmer at all cold but still as Scrooge
was, since he gave the salute back friendly.

"This is also a fellow,"
growled Scrooge, who heard them. "My servant, with fifteen shillings
a week and women and children, speaks of happy Christmas. I go to
Bedlam. "

The servant had, as he also did his nephew, admitted two
other people. There were two portly, well-respectable gentlemen, now,
hat in hand, in Scrooge's counting- stood. They had books and papers
in his hand and bowed.

"Scrooge and Marley, I think," said one of
the men by looking at his list. "Have I have the honor to speak with
Mr. Scrooge or Mr. Marley? "

"Mr. Marley has been dead for seven
years, "said Scrooge. "He died seven years ago today."

"We do not
doubt that the surviving Compagnon will have all his generosity,"
said the gentleman, he handed his credentials.

He was quite right,
because there had been two kindred souls. At the ominous word Generosity
Scrooge frowned brow, shook his head and returned the paper. Gone was the nice little house, it was a magnificent palace at the site,
with many servants were running hither and thither, and came to each of his commands. He was
carried about in a litter, servants fanned him in expensive clothing to cool and all the world
bowed to him. Initially, he made this new change much pleasure but he soon became weary of the eternal
monotony, and thought about how it even better could devise. And when he saw the sun was so burning,
as the rays of life donated, but at the same time also burned fields and farmland, sparing
not even himself, but his face despite litter, umbrellas and tanned subjects because he believed
that the sun is the all-powerful Thing is, where nothing would be unattainable, and he exclaimed: "If it
be possible, I would be the sun! "

"Thou shalt have it," cried the voice, and immediately our Steinhauer was in the sky as Sun and
hurled with great pleasure, its rays in all directions, burnt the grass of the meadows, the
harvest in the fields, so lit even in forests. In short, he drove the arrogance of his power all
sorts of pranks as a child with a new toy. How this but soon tired of the game is so well the
Steinhauer and as to him a cloud in the way and put a stop to his doings commanded by preventing
that the radiation the earth met, he was furious and shouted:

"What, the tiny cloud prevents me on my game? Then she is more powerful than I, Sun. Because
I would rather be but for the cloud! "

"It was," he heard the voice up to drown himself.

Now, he hovered like a cloud between Earth and sun, and was happy the sun a trick to play, caught
by its rays. Now he also saw as a result of the shadow he raised the overheated Earth, it began
to bloom and green. This includes water, he thought, and opened its gates. Hey, like the crackling
and splashing! He was pleased Royal on the goings on earth, as people were running and were
looking to protect themselves, as the birds were hidden and how the trees bent under the weight of
the crackling Rain. And more and more he let it rain, not in small drops, no, in crushing Fonts,
so that the streams and rivers the amount of water were unable to grasp and over the The banks
were. All the land was flooded, trees uprooted, torn away from the dams and Bergen fell down in the
water thundering cascades, all got in their way Arcing tearing with it. Only a lone rock stood quietly
and firmly, he could the raging storm to have nothing to be proud of the main sticking close
to the cloud up and Steinhauer Cloud even thought a mocking laughter heard. This enraged him
even more and in extreme He sent a few flashes of anger on the rocks and poured over him the
rest of its water. But nothing helped, and the rock shook and did not leave and had finally
exhausted the cloud her fury set.

"So I will be a rock," was his wish now and then cried the voice Fulfillment.

Now he was the rock, stood proud and confident and looked forward to its unlimited Power. could
not the rays of the sun, not the pouring rain it harm.

Now Steinhauer thought of his goal to reach and the most powerful
man on earth to be; for no one could harm him or to move it from its
place.

No one!

Really no one?

The joy did not last long; one morning he heard banging and scratching
at its base and when he looked down, he saw a tiny man with a wedge
and hammer armed Piece by piece from the rock strike.

"If this continues," he growled, "is nothing left of me. If you think
it is possible ?

Keep What all the angry elements are unable to do so the little boy from a People. That should
not be, since I'd rather be that man. "

       "So, is what you were previously," came the voice of the mountain
spirit.

  
  And the rock was back to Steinhauer, who from early morning
  until late at night with difficulty the stones from the rock
  broke off and was satisfied and happy with what he had.

He was cured
of his wishes and had learned to see that in every class and every
Professions to do anything is left over, because there is nothing
perfect in this world.

[Figure: Japanese god luck.]

* * * * *

Errors
and irregularities

saw the little turtle [erklickte] It is ... you
... allow this return [up] He went back to the good-natured man and
asked him [NND] "Do you think your words? "Joseph!"
she would say, "if only people had aa Sun wires to their heads because you could aa drudgery
stuff me with teeth firti "- If she had only lived today still, they would have me not locked.
Dear God, I'm not a thief, Mr. Paulsen. 

Yes, and it was his own Bettpfoste. It was his bed and his room. And what the happiest and Best of
all, the future was to be improvement.

"I want to in the past, present and future life," repeated Scrooge,
as he climbed out of bed. 

"And therefore he made himself so comfortable here, and came and invited
himself to lunch, - yes,"

"No, I invited him, I had to make some
bills with it," said Shelby.

"Is he a slave trader?"

Said Mrs. Shelby, a certain embarrassment in the nature of her husband knowing.

"Why, my child, what brings you because on the question?" Said Mr. Shelby, looking up.

"Oh, nothing, - only Eliza came today, after dinner, weeping and in great distress to me and
said you were talking to a dealer and they did it to you include a bid for their young To make - that
silly little goose! "

"Really?" Said Mr. Shelby, looking back on
his letter, the few moments his attention seemed to claim, though
not he noticed that he runs held in his hand. I
approached in silence, but as she now looked up to the bloody face of the Crucified, I said: "Forgive
me if I interrupt your prayer, but you are probably a stranger in this City? "

She nodded, changed without their service.

