It was impossible to prevent the escape of gas, which rushed through a large rent in the silk.
By lightening the car of all the articles which it contained, the passengers had been able
to prolong their suspension in the air for a few hours. But the inevitable catastrophe could
only be retarded, and if land did not appear before night, voyagers, car, and balloon must
to a certainty vanish beneath the waves.

They now resorted to the only remaining expedient. They were truly dauntless men, who knew
how to look death in the face. Not a single murmur escaped from their lips. They were determined
to struggle to the last minute, to do anything to retard their fall. The car was only a sort
of willow basket, unable to float, and there was not the slightest possibility of maintaining
it on the surface of the sea.

Two more hours passed and the balloon was scarcely 400 feet above the water.

At that moment a loud voice, the voice of a man whose heart was inaccessible to fear, was heard.
To this voice responded others not less determined. "Is everything thrown out?" "No, here are
still 2,000 dollars in gold." A heavy bag immediately plunged into the sea. "Does the balloon
rise?" "A little, but it will not be long before it falls again." "What still remains to be
thrown out?" "Nothing." "Yes! the car!" "Let us catch hold of the net, and into the sea with
the car."

This was, in fact, the last and only mode of lightening the balloon. The ropes which held the
car were cut, and the balloon, after its fall, mounted 2,000 feet. The five voyagers had hoisted
themselves into the net, and clung to the meshes, gazing at the abyss.

The delicate sensibility of balloons is well known. It is sufficient to throw out the lightest
article to produce a difference in its vertical position. The apparatus in the air is like
a balance of mathematical precision. It can be thus easily understood that when it is lightened
of any considerable weight its movement will be impetuous and sudden. So it happened on this
occasion. But after being suspended for an instant aloft, the balloon began to redescend, the
gas escaping by the rent which it was impossible to repair.

The men had done all that men could do. No human efforts could save them now.

They must trust to the mercy of Him who rules the elements.

At four o'clock the balloon was only 500 feet above the surface of the water.

A loud barking was heard. A dog accompanied the voyagers, and was held pressed close to his
master in the meshes of the net.

"Top has seen something," cried one of the men. Then immediately a loud voice shouted,--

"Land! land!" The balloon, which the wind still drove towards the southwest, had since daybreak
gone a considerable distance, which might be reckoned by hundreds of miles, and a tolerably
high land had, in fact, appeared in that direction. But this land was still thirty miles off.
It would not take less than an hour to get to it, and then there was the chance of falling
to leeward.

An hour! Might not the balloon before that be emptied of all the fluid it yet retained?

Such was the terrible question! The voyagers could distinctly see that solid spot which they
must reach at any cost. They were ignorant of what it was, whether an island or a continent,
for they did not know to what part of the world the hurricane had driven them. But they must
reach this land, whether inhabited or desolate, whether hospitable or not.

It was evident that the balloon could no longer support itself! Several times already had the
crests of the enormous billows licked the bottom of the net, making it still heavier, and the
balloon only half rose, like a bird with a wounded wing. Half an hour later the land was not
more than a mile off, but the balloon, exhausted, flabby, hanging in great folds, had gas in
its upper part alone. The voyagers, clinging to the net, were still too heavy for it, and soon,
half plunged into the sea, they were beaten by the furious waves. The balloon-case bulged out
again, and the wind, taking it, drove it along like a vessel. Might it not possibly thus reach
the land?

But, when only two fathoms off, terrible cries resounded from four pairs of lungs at once.
The balloon, which had appeared as if it would never again rise, suddenly made an unexpected
bound, after having been struck by a tremendous sea. As if it had been at that instant relieved
of a new part of its weight, it mounted to a height of 1,500 feet, and here it met a current
of wind, which instead of taking it directly to the coast, carried it in a nearly parallel
direction.

At last, two minutes later, it reproached obliquely, and finally fell on a sandy beach, out
of the reach of the waves.

The voyagers, aiding each other, managed to disengage themselves from the meshes of the net.
The balloon, relieved of their weight, was taken by the wind, and like a wounded bird which
revives for an instant, disappeared into space.

But the car had contained five passengers, with a dog, and the balloon only left four on the shore.

The missing person had evidently been swept off by the sea, which had just struck the net,
and it was owing to this circumstance that the lightened balloon rose the last time, and then
soon after reached the land. Scarcely had the four castaways set foot on firm ground, than
they all, thinking of the absent one, simultaneously exclaimed, "Perhaps he will try to swim
to land! Let us save him! let us save him!"

Chapter 2

Those whom the hurricane had just thrown on this coast were neither aeronauts by profession
nor amateurs. They were prisoners of war whose boldness had induced them to escape in this
extraordinary manner.

A hundred times they had almost perished! A hundred times had they almost fallen from their
torn balloon into the depths of the ocean. But Heaven had reserved them for a strange destiny,
and after having, on the 20th of March, escaped from Richmond, besieged by the troops of General
Ulysses Grant, they found themselves seven thousand miles from the capital of Virginia, which
was the principal stronghold of the South, during the terrible War of Secession. Their aerial
voyage had lasted five days.

The curious circumstances which led to the escape of the prisoners were as follows:

That same year, in the month of February, 1865, in one of the coups de main by which General
Grant attempted, though in vain, to possess himself of Richmond, several of his officers fell
into the power of the enemy and were detained in the town. One of the most distinguished was
Captain Cyrus Harding. He was a native of Massachusetts, a first-class engineer, to whom the
government had confided, during the war, the direction of the railways, which were so important
at that time. A true Northerner, thin, bony, lean, about forty-five years of age; his close-cut
hair and his beard, of which he only kept a thick mustache, were already getting gray. He had
one-of those finely-developed heads which appear made to be struck on a medal, piercing eyes,
a serious mouth, the physiognomy of a clever man of the military school. He was one of those
engineers who began by handling the hammer and pickaxe, like generals who first act as common
soldiers. Besides mental power, he also possessed great manual dexterity. His muscles exhibited
remarkable proofs of tenacity. A man of action as well as a man of thought, all he did was
without effort to one of his vigorous and sanguine temperament. Learned, clear-headed, and
practical, he fulfilled in all emergencies those three conditions which united ought to insure
human success--activity of mind and body, impetuous wishes, and powerful will. He might have
taken for his motto that of William of Orange in the 17th century: "I can undertake and persevere
even without hope of success." Cyrus Harding was courage personified. He had been in all the
battles of that war. After having begun as a volunteer at Illinois, under Ulysses Grant, he
fought at Paducah, Belmont, Pittsburg Landing, at the siege of Corinth, Port Gibson, Black
River, Chattanooga, the Wilderness, on the Potomac, everywhere and valiantly, a soldier worthy
of the general who said, "I never count my dead!" And hundreds of times Captain Harding had
almost been among those who were not counted by the terrible Grant; but in these combats where
he never spared himself, fortune favored him till the moment when he was wounded and taken
prisoner on the field of battle near Richmond. At the same time and on the same day another
important personage fell into the hands of the Southerners. This was no other than Gideon Spilen,
a reporter for the New York Herald, who had been ordered to follow the changes of the war in
the midst of the Northern armies.

Gideon Spilett was one of that race of indomitable English or American chroniclers, like Stanley
and others, who stop at nothing to obtain exact information, and transmit it to their journal
in the shortest possible time. The newspapers of the Union, such as the New York Herald, are
genuine powers, and their reporters are men to be reckoned with. Gideon Spilett ranked among
the first of those reporters: a man of great merit, energetic, prompt and ready for anything,
full of ideas, having traveled over the whole world, soldier and artist, enthusiastic in council,
resolute in action, caring neither for trouble, fatigue, nor danger, when in pursuit of information,
for himself first, and then for his journal, a perfect treasury of knowledge on all sorts of
curious subjects, of the unpublished, of the unknown, and of the impossible. He was one of
those intrepid observers who write under fire, "reporting" among bullets, and to whom every
danger is welcome.

He also had been in all the battles, in the first rank, revolver in one hand, note-book in
the other; grape-shot never made his pencil tremble. He did not fatigue the wires with incessant
telegrams, like those who speak when they have nothing to say, but each of his notes, short,
decisive, and clear, threw light on some important point. Besides, he was not wanting in humor.
It was he who, after the affair of the Black River, determined at any cost to keep his place
at the wicket of the telegraph office, and after having announced to his journal the result
of the battle, telegraphed for two hours the first chapters of the Bible. It cost the New York
Herald two thousand dollars, but the New York Herald published the first intelligence.

Gideon Spilett was tall. He was rather more than forty years of age. Light whiskers bordering
on red surrounded his face. His eye was steady, lively, rapid in its changes. It was the eye
of a man accustomed to take in at a glance all the details of a scene. Well built, he was inured
to all climates, like a bar of steel hardened in cold water.

For ten years Gideon Spilett had been the reporter of the New York Herald, which he enriched
by his letters and drawings, for he was as skilful in the use of the pencil as of the pen.
When he was captured, he was in the act of making a description and sketch of the battle. The
last words in his note-book were these: "A Southern rifleman has just taken aim at me, but--"
The Southerner notwithstanding missed Gideon Spilett, who, with his usual fortune, came out
of this affair without a scratch.

Cyrus Harding and Gideon Spilett, who did not know each other except by reputation, had both
been carried to Richmond. The engineer's wounds rapidly healed, and it was during his convalescence
that he made acquaintance with the reporter. The two men then learned to appreciate each other.
Soon their common aim had but one object, that of escaping, rejoining Grant's army, and fighting
together in the ranks of the Federals.

The two Americans had from the first determined to seize every chance; but although they were
allowed to wander at liberty in the town, Richmond was so strictly guarded, that escape appeared
impossible. In the meanwhile Captain Harding was rejoined by a servant who was devoted to him
in life and in death. This intrepid fellow was a Negro born on the engineer's estate, of a
slave father and mother, but to whom Cyrus, who was an Abolitionist from conviction and heart,
had long since given his freedom. The once slave, though free, would not leave his master.
He would have died for him. He was a man of about thirty, vigorous, active, clever, intelligent,
gentle, and calm, sometimes naive, always merry, obliging, and honest. His name was Nebuchadnezzar,
but he only answered to the familiar abbreviation of Neb.

When Neb heard that his master had been made prisoner, he left Massachusetts without hesitating
an instant, arrived before Richmond, and by dint of stratagem and shrewdness, after having
risked his life twenty times over, managed to penetrate into the besieged town. The pleasure
of Harding on seeing his servant, and the joy of Neb at finding his master, can scarcely be
described.

But though Neb had been able to make his way into Richmond, it was quite another thing to get
out again, for the Northern prisoners were very strictly watched. Some extraordinary opportunity
was needed to make the attempt with any chance of success, and this opportunity not only did
not present itself, but was very difficult to find.

Meanwhile Grant continued his energetic operations. The victory of Petersburg had been very
dearly bought. His forces, united to those of Butler, had as yet been unsuccessful before Richmond,
and nothing gave the prisoners any hope of a speedy deliverance.

The reporter, to whom his tedious captivity did not offer a single incident worthy of note,
could stand it no longer. His usually active mind was occupied with one sole thought--how he
might get out of Richmond at any cost. Several times had he even made the attempt, but was
stopped by some insurmountable obstacle. However, the siege continued; and if the prisoners
were anxious to escape and join Grant's army, certain of the besieged were no less anxious
to join the Southern forces. Among them was one Jonathan Forster, a determined Southerner.
The truth was, that if the prisoners of the Secessionists could not leave the town, neither
could the Secessionists themselves while the Northern army invested it. The Governor of Richmond
for a long time had been unable to communicate with General Lee, and he very much wished to
make known to him the situation of the town, so as to hasten the march of the army to their
relief. Thus Jonathan Forster accordingly conceived the idea of rising in a balloon, so as
to pass over the besieging lines, and in that way reach the Secessionist camp.

The Governor authorized the attempt. A balloon was manufactured and placed at the disposal
of Forster, who was to be accompanied by five other persons. They were furnished with arms
in case they might have to defend themselves when they alighted, and provisions in the event
of their aerial voyage being prolonged.

The departure of the balloon was fixed for the 18th of March. It should be effected during
the night, with a northwest wind of moderate force, and the aeronauts calculated that they
would reach General Lee's camp in a few hours.

But this northwest wind was not a simple breeze. From the 18th it was evident that it was changing
to a hurricane. The tempest soon became such that Forster's departure was deferred, for it
was impossible to risk the balloon and those whom it carried in the midst of the furious elements.

The balloon, inflated on the great square of Richmond, was ready to depart on the first abatement
of the wind, and, as may be supposed, the impatience among the besieged to see the storm moderate
was very great.

The 18th, the 19th of March passed without any alteration in the weather. There was even great
difficulty in keeping the balloon fastened to the ground, as the squalls dashed it furiously about.

The night of the 19th passed, but the next morning the storm blew with redoubled force. The
departure of the balloon was impossible.

On that day the engineer, Cyrus Harding, was accosted in one of the streets of Richmond by
a person whom he did not in the least know. This was a sailor named Pencroft, a man of about
thirty-five or forty years of age, strongly built, very sunburnt, and possessed of a pair of
bright sparkling eyes and a remarkably good physiognomy. Pencroft was an American from the
North, who had sailed all the ocean over, and who had gone through every possible and almost
impossible adventure that a being with two feet and no wings would encounter. It is needless
to say that he was a bold, dashing fellow, ready to dare anything and was astonished at nothing.
Pencroft at the beginning of the year had gone to Richmond on business, with a young boy of
fifteen from New Jersey, son of a former captain, an orphan, whom he loved as if he had been
his own child. Not having been able to leave the town before the first operations of the siege,
he found himself shut up, to his great disgust; but, not accustomed to succumb to difficulties,
he resolved to escape by some means or other. He knew the engineer-officer by reputation; he
knew with what impatience that determined man chafed under his restraint. On this day he did
not, therefore, hesitate to accost him, saying, without circumlocution, "Have you had enough
of Richmond, captain?"

The engineer looked fixedly at the man who spoke, and who added, in a low voice,--

"Captain Harding, will you try to escape?"

"When?" asked the engineer quickly, and it was evident that this question was uttered without
consideration, for he had not yet examined the stranger who addressed him. But after having
with a penetrating eye observed the open face of the sailor, he was convinced that he had before
him an honest man.

"Who are you?" he asked briefly.

Pencroft made himself known.

"Well," replied Harding, "and in what way do you propose to escape?"

"By that lazy balloon which is left there doing nothing, and which looks to me as if it was
waiting on purpose for us--"

There was no necessity for the sailor to finish his sentence. The engineer understood him at
once. He seized Pencroft by the arm, and dragged him to his house. There the sailor developed
his project, which was indeed extremely simple. They risked nothing but their lives in its
execution. The hurricane was in all its violence, it is true, but so clever and daring an engineer
as Cyrus Harding knew perfectly well how to manage a balloon. Had he himself been as well acquainted
with the art of sailing in the air as he was with the navigation of a ship, Pencroft would
not have hesitated to set out, of course taking his young friend Herbert with him; for, accustomed
to brave the fiercest tempests of the ocean, he was not to be hindered on account of the hurricane.

Captain Harding had listened to the sailor without saying a word, but his eyes shone with satisfaction.
Here was the long-sought-for opportunity--he was not a man to let it pass. The plan was feasible,
though, it must be confessed, dangerous in the extreme. In the night, in spite of their guards,
they might approach the balloon, slip into the car, and then cut the cords which held it. There
was no doubt that they might be killed, but on the other hand they might succeed, and without
this storm!--Without this storm the balloon would have started already and the looked-for opportunity
would not have then presented itself.

"I am not alone!" said Harding at last.

"How many people do you wish to bring with you?" asked the sailor.

"Two; my friend Spilett, and my servant Neb."

"That will be three," replied Pencroft; "and with Herbert and me five. But the balloon will
hold six--"

"That will be enough, we will go," answered Harding in a firm voice.

This "we" included Spilett, for the reporter, as his friend well knew, was not a man to draw
back, and when the project was communicated to him he approved of it unreservedly. What astonished
him was, that so simple an idea had not occurred to him before. As to Neb, he followed his
master wherever his master wished to go.

"This evening, then," said Pencroft, "we will all meet out there."

"This evening, at ten o'clock," replied Captain Harding; "and Heaven grant that the storm does
not abate before our departure."

Pencroft took leave of the two friends, and returned to his lodging, where young Herbert Brown
had remained. The courageous boy knew of the sailor's plan, and it was not without anxiety
that he awaited the result of the proposal being made to the engineer. Thus five determined
persons were about to abandon themselves to the mercy of the tempestuous elements!

No! the storm did not abate, and neither Jonathan Forster nor his companions dreamed of confronting
it in that frail car.

It would be a terrible journey. The engineer only feared one thing; it was that the balloon,
held to the ground and dashed about by the wind, would be torn into shreds. For several hours
he roamed round the nearly-deserted square, surveying the apparatus. Pencroft did the same
on his side, his hands in his pockets, yawning now and then like a man who did not know how
to kill the time, but really dreading, like his friend, either the escape or destruction of
the balloon. Evening arrived. The night was dark in the extreme. Thick mists passed like clouds
close to the ground. Rain fell mingled with snow, it was very cold. A mist hung over Richmond.
It seemed as if the violent storm had produced a truce between the besiegers and the besieged,
and that the cannon were silenced by the louder detonations of the storm. The streets of the
town were deserted. It had not even appeared necessary in that horrible weather to place a
guard in the square, in the midst of which plunged the balloon. Everything favored the departure
of the prisoners, but what might possibly be the termination of the hazardous voyage they contemplated
in the midst of the furious elements?--

"Dirty weather!" exclaimed Pencroft, fixing his hat firmly on his head with a blow of his fist;
"but pshaw, we shall succeed all the same!"

At half-past nine, Harding and his companions glided from different directions into the square,
which the gas-lamps, extinguished by the wind, had left in total obscurity. Even the enormous
balloon, almost beaten to the ground, could not be seen. Independently of the sacks of ballast,
to which the cords of the net were fastened, the car was held by a strong cable passed through
a ring in the pavement. The five prisoners met by the car. They had not been perceived, and
such was the darkness that they could not even see each other.

Without speaking a word, Harding, Spilett, Neb, and Herbert took their places in the car, while
Pencroft by the engineer's order detached successively the bags of ballast. It was the work
of a few minutes only, and the sailor rejoined his companions.

The balloon was then only held by the cable, and the engineer had nothing to do but to give
the word.

At that moment a dog sprang with a bound into the car. It was Top, a favorite of the engineer.
The faithful creature, having broken his chain, had followed his master. He, however, fearing
that its additional weight might impede their ascent, wished to send away the animal.

"One more will make but little difference, poor beast!" exclaimed Pencroft, heaving out two
bags of sand, and as he spoke letting go the cable; the balloon ascending in an oblique direction,
disappeared, after having dashed the car against two chimneys, which it threw down as it swept
by them.

Then, indeed, the full rage of the hurricane was exhibited to the voyagers. During the night
the engineer could not dream of descending, and when day broke, even a glimpse of the earth
below was intercepted by fog.

Five days had passed when a partial clearing allowed them to see the wide extending ocean beneath
their feet, now lashed into the maddest fury by the gale.

Our readers will recollect what befell these five daring individuals who set out on their hazardous
expedition in the balloon on the 20th of March. Five days afterwards four of them were thrown
on a desert coast, seven thousand miles from their country! But one of their number was missing,
the man who was to be their guide, their leading spirit, the engineer, Captain Harding! The
instant they had recovered their feet, they all hurried to the beach in the hopes of rendering
him assistance.

Chapter 3

The engineer, the meshes of the net having given way, had been carried off by a wave. His dog
also had disappeared. The faithful animal had voluntarily leaped out to help his master. "Forward,"
cried the reporter; and all four, Spilett, Herbert, Pencroft, and Neb, forgetting their fatigue,
began their search. Poor Neb shed bitter tears, giving way to despair at the thought of having
lost the only being he loved on earth.

Only two minutes had passed from the time when Cyrus Harding disappeared to the moment when
his companions set foot on the ground. They had hopes therefore of arriving in time to save
him. "Let us look for him! let us look for him!" cried Neb.

"Yes, Neb," replied Gideon Spilett, "and we will find him too!"

"Living, I trust!"

"Still living!"

"Can he swim?" asked Pencroft.

"Yes," replied Neb, "and besides, Top is there."

The sailor, observing the heavy surf on the shore, shook his head.

The engineer had disappeared to the north of the shore, and nearly half a mile from the place
where the castaways had landed. The nearest point of the beach he could reach was thus fully
that distance off.

It was then nearly six o'clock. A thick fog made the night very dark. The castaways proceeded
toward the north of the land on which chance had thrown them, an unknown region, the geographical
situation of which they could not even guess. They were walking upon a sandy soil, mingled
with stones, which appeared destitute of any sort of vegetation. The ground, very unequal and
rough, was in some places perfectly riddled with holes, making walking extremely painful. From
these holes escaped every minute great birds of clumsy flight, which flew in all directions.
Others, more active, rose in flocks and passed in clouds over their heads. The sailor thought
he recognized gulls and cormorants, whose shrill cries rose above the roaring of the sea.

From time to time the castaways stopped and shouted, then listened for some response from the
ocean, for they thought that if the engineer had landed, and they had been near to the place,
they would have heard the barking of the dog Top, even should Harding himself have been unable
to give any sign of existence. They stopped to listen, but no sound arose above the roaring
of the waves and the dashing of the surf. The little band then continued their march forward,
searching into every hollow of the shore.

After walking for twenty minutes, the four castaways were suddenly brought to a standstill
by the sight of foaming billows close to their feet. The solid ground ended here. They found
themselves at the extremity of a sharp point on which the sea broke furiously.

"It is a promontory," said the sailor; "we must retrace our steps, holding towards the right,
and we shall thus gain the mainland."

"But if he is there," said Neb, pointing to the ocean, whose waves shone of a snowy white in
the darkness. "Well, let us call again," and all uniting their voices, they gave a vigorous
shout, but there came no reply. They waited for a lull, then began again; still no reply.

The castaways accordingly returned, following the opposite side of the promontory, over a soil
equally sandy and rugged. However, Pencroft observed that the shore was more equal, that the
ground rose, and he declared that it was joined by a long slope to a hill, whose massive front
he thought that he could see looming indistinctly through the mist. The birds were less numerous
on this part of the shore; the sea was also less tumultuous, and they observed that the agitation
of the waves was diminished. The noise of the surf was scarcely heard. This side of the promontory
evidently formed a semicircular bay, which the sharp point sheltered from the breakers of the
open sea. But to follow this direction was to go south, exactly opposite to that part of the
coast where Harding might have landed. After a walk of a mile and a half, the shore presented
no curve which would permit them to return to the north. This promontory, of which they had
turned the point, must be attached to the mainland. The castaways, although their strength
was nearly exhausted, still marched courageously forward, hoping every moment to meet with
a sudden angle which would set them in the first direction. What was their disappointment,
when, after trudging nearly two miles, having reached an elevated point composed of slippery
rocks, they found themselves again stopped by the sea.

"We are on an islet," said Pencroft, "and we have surveyed it from one extremity to the other."

The sailor was right; they had been thrown, not on a continent, not even on an island, but
on an islet which was not more than two miles in length, with even a less breadth.

Was this barren spot the desolate refuge of sea-birds, strewn with stones and destitute of
vegetation, attached to a more important archipelago? It was impossible to say. When the voyagers
from their car saw the land through the mist, they had not been able to reconnoiter it sufficiently.
However, Pencroft, accustomed with his sailor eyes to piece through the gloom, was almost certain
that he could clearly distinguish in the west confused masses which indicated an elevated coast.
But they could not in the dark determine whether it was a single island, or connected with
others. They could not leave it either, as the sea surrounded them; they must therefore put
off till the next day their search for the engineer, from whom, alas! not a single cry had
reached them to show that he was still in existence.

"The silence of our friend proves nothing," said the reporter. "Perhaps he has fainted or is
wounded, and unable to reply directly, so we will not despair."

