Torpedoes have been invented, and apparatus for taxation, and so forth. But the spinning-whined,
the woman's weaving-loom, the plough, the hatchet, the chain, the rake, the bucket, the well-sweep,
are exactly the same as they were in the days of Rurik; and if there has been any change, then
that change has not been effected by scientific people.

And it is the same with the arts.  We have elevated a lot of people to the rank of great writers;
we have picked these writers to pieces, and have written mountains of criticism, and criticism
on the critics, and criticism on the critics of the critics.  And we have collected picture-
galleries, and have studied different schools of art in detail; and we have so many symphonies
and orchestras and operas, that it is becoming difficult even for us to listen to them.  But
what have we added to the popular bylini [the epic songs], legends, tales, songs?  What music,
what pictures, have we given to the people?

On the Nikolskaya books are manufactured for the people, and harmonicas in Tula; and in neither
have we taken any part.  The falsity of the whole direction of our arts and sciences is more
striking and more apparent in precisely those very branches, which, it would seem, should,
from their very nature, be of use to the people, and which, in consequence of their false attitude,
seem rather injurious than useful.  The technologist, the physician, the teacher, the artist,
the author, should, in virtue of their very callings, it would seem, serve the people.  And,
what then? Under the present regime, they can do nothing but harm to the people.

The technologist or the mechanic has to work with capital. He also had a gentle soul and prairie rasa, blurred in fog.
Among the interior haze thinking and feeling, without using words or signs and representative. She felt that
her daughter had not previously been in the convent, which had wanted to cheat, charity. That
is, he had not been deceived had deceived himself, and had deceived others. But now, her daughter
was in the convent. How so? Out of it - I thought - no there was nothing. The world was an illusion
of the senses, a mirage of imagination. The outside world was apparent and deceptive creation
of the world from within. Bellarmine then resolved put in order of peace and beauty of his inner world,
and hence, the outside world, which is but an echo or other sensitive image.
  All this in the conditions of life in which the laboring
man finds himself. Of this, he neither knows nor understands any thing,--less, indeed, than
the very stupidest peasant.  Give him workshops, all sorts of workmen at his desire, an order
for a machine from abroad, and he will get along. But how to devise means of lightening toil,
under the conditions of labor of millions of men,--this is what he does not and can not know;
and because of his knowledge, his habits, and his demands on life, he is unfitted for this
business.

In a still worse predicament is the physician.  His fancied science is all so arranged, that
he only knows how to heal those persons who do nothing.  He requires an incalculable quantity
of expensive preparations, instruments, drugs, and hygienic apparatus.

He has studied with celebrities in the capitals, who only retain patients who can be cured
in the hospital, or who, in the course of their cure, can purchase the appliances requisite
for healing, and even go at once from the North to the South, to some baths or other.  Science
is of such a nature, that every rural physic-man laments because there are no means of curing
working-men, because he is so poor that he has not the means to place the sick man in the proper
hygienic conditions; and at the same time this physician complains that there are no hospitals,
and that he cannot get through with his work, that he needs assistants, more doctors and practitioners.

What is the inference?  This: that the people's principal lack, from which diseases arise,
and spread abroad, and refuse to be healed, is the lack of means of subsistence.  And here
Science, under the banner of the division of labor, summons her warriors to the aid of the
people.  Science is entirely arranged for the wealthy classes, and it has adopted for its task
the healing of the people who can obtain every thing for themselves; and it attempts to heal
those who possess no superfluity, by the same means.

But there are no means, and therefore it is necessary to take them from the people who are
ailing, and pest-stricken, and who cannot recover for lack of means.  And now the defenders
of medicine for the people say that this matter has been, as yet, but little developed.  Evidently
it has been but little developed, because if (which God forbid!) it had been developed, and
that through oppressing the people,--instead of two doctors, midwives, and practitioners in
a district, twenty would have settled down, since they desire this, and half the people would
have died through the difficulty of supporting this medical staff, and soon there would be
no one to heal.

Scientific co-operation with the people, of which the defenders of science talk, must be something
quite different.  And this co-operation which should exist has not yet begun.  It will begin
when the man of science, technologist or physician, will not consider it legal to take from
people--I will not say a hundred thousand, but even a modest ten thousand, or five hundred
rubles for assisting them; but when he will live among the toiling people, under the same conditions,
and exactly as they do, then he will be able to apply his knowledge to the questions of mechanics,
technics, hygiene, and the healing of the laboring people.  But now science, supporting itself
at the expense of the working-people, has entirely forgotten the conditions of life among these
people, ignores (as it puts it) these conditions, and takes very grave offence because its
fancied knowledge finds no adherents among the people.

The domain of medicine, like the domain of technical science, still lies untouched.  All questions
as to how the time of labor is best divided, what is the best method of nourishment, with what,
in what shape, and when it is best to clothe one's self, to shoe one's self, to counteract
dampness and cold, how best to wash one's self, to feed the children, to swaddle them, and
so on, in just those conditions in which the working- people find themselves,--all these questions
have not yet been propounded.

The same is the case with the activity of the teachers of science,--pedagogical teachers. 
Exactly in the same manner science has so arranged this matter, that only wealthy people are
able to study science, and teachers, like technologists and physicians, cling to money.

And this cannot be otherwise, because a school built on a model plan (as a general rule, the
more scientifically built the school, the more costly it is), with pivot chains, and globes,
and maps, and library, and petty text-books for teachers and scholars and pedagogues, is a
sort of thing for which it would be necessary to double the taxes in every village. This science
demands.  The people need money for their work; and the more there is needed, the poorer they are.

Defenders of science say: "Pedagogy is even now proving of advantage to the people, but give
it a chance to develop, and then it will do still better."  Yes, if it does develop, and instead
of twenty schools in a district there are a hundred, and all scientific, and if the people
support these schools, they will grow poorer than ever, and they will more than ever need work
for their children's sake.  "What is to be done?" they say to this.  The government will build
the schools, and will make education obligatory, as it is in Europe; but again, surely, the
money is taken from the people just the same, and it will be harder to work, and they will
have less leisure for work, and there will be no education even by compulsion.  Again the sole
salvation is this: that the teacher should live under the conditions of the working-men, and
should teach for that compensation which they give him freely and voluntarily.

Such is the false course of science, which deprives it of the power of fulfilling its obligation,
which is, to serve the people.

But in nothing is this false course of science so obviously apparent, as in the vocation of
art, which, from its very significance, ought to be accessible to the people.  Science may
fall back on its stupid excuse, that science acts for science, and that when it turns out learned
men it is laboring for the people; but art, if it is art, should be accessible to all the people,
and in particular to those in whose name it is executed.  And our definition of art, in a striking
manner, convicts those who busy themselves with art, of their lack of desire, lack of knowledge,
and lack of power, to be useful to the people.

The painter, for the production of his great works, must have a studio of at least such dimensions
that a whole association of carpenters (forty in number) or shoemakers, now sickening or stifling
in lairs, would be able to work in it.  But this is not all; he must have a model, costumes,
travels.  Millions are expended on the encouragement of art, and the products of this art are
both incomprehensible and useless to the people. Musicians, in order to express their grand
ideas, must assemble two hundred men in white neckties, or in costumes, and spend hundreds
of thousands of rubles for the equipment of an opera.  And the products of this art cannot
evoke from the people--even if the latter could at any time enjoy it--any thing except amazement
and ennui.

Writers--authors--it appears, do not require surroundings, studios, models, orchestras, and
actors; but it then appears that the author needs (not to mention comfort in his quarters)
all the dainties of life for the preparation of his great works, travels, palaces, cabinets,
libraries, the pleasures of art, visits to theatres, concerts, the baths, and so on. If he
does not earn a fortune for himself, he is granted a pension, in order that he may compose
the better.  And again, these compositions, so prized by us, remain useless lumber for the
people, and utterly unserviceable to them.

And if still more of these dealers in spiritual nourishment are developed further, as men of
science desire, and a studio is erected in every village; if an orchestra is set up, and authors
are supported in those conditions which artistic people regard as indispensable for themselves,--I
imagine that the working-classes will sooner take an oath never to look at any pictures, never
to listen to a symphony, never to read poetry or novels, than to feed all these persons.

And why, apparently, should art not be of service to the people?  In every cottage there are
images and pictures; every peasant man and woman sings; many own harmonicas; and all recite
stories and verses, and many read.  It is as if those two things which are made for each other--the
lock and the key--had parted company; they have sprung so far apart, that not even the possibility
of uniting them presents itself.  Tell the artist that he should paint without a studio, model,
or costumes, and that he should paint five-kopek pictures, and he will say that that is tantamount
to abandoning his art, as he understands it.  Tell the musician that he should play on the
harmonica, and teach the women to sing songs; say to the poet, to the author, that he ought
to cast aside his poems and romances, and compose song-books, tales, and stories, comprehensible
to the uneducated people,--they will say that you are mad.

The service of the people by science and art will only be performed when people, dwelling in
the midst of the common folk, and, like the common folk, putting forward no demands, claiming
no rights, shall offer to the common folk their scientific and artistic services; the acceptance
or rejection of which shall depend wholly on the will of the common folk.

It is said that the activity of science and art has aided in the forward march of mankind,--meaning
by this activity, that which is now called by that name; which is the same as saying that an
unskilled banging of oars on a vessel that is floating with the tide, which merely hinders
the progress of the vessel, is assisting the movement of the ship.  It only retards it.  The
so-called division of labor, which has become in our day the condition of activity of men of
science and art, was, and has remained, the chief cause of the tardy forward movement of mankind.

The proofs of this lie in that confession of all men of science, that the gains of science
and art are inaccessible to the laboring masses, in consequence of the faulty distribution
of riches.  The irregularity of this distribution does not decrease in proportion to the progress
of science and art, but only increases.  Men of art and science assume an air of deep pity
for this unfortunate circumstance which does not depend upon them.  But this unfortunate circumstance
is produced by themselves; for this irregular distribution of wealth flows solely from the
theory of the division of labor.

Science maintains the division of labor as a unalterable law; it sees that the distribution
of wealth, founded on the division of labor, is wrong and ruinous; and it affirms that its
activity, which recognizes the division of labor, will lead people to bliss.  The result is,
that some people make use of the labor of others; but that, if they shall make use of the labor
of others for a very long period of time, and in still larger measure, then this wrongful distribution
of wealth, i.e., the use of the labor of others, will come to an end.

Men stand beside a constantly swelling spring of water, and are occupied with the problem of
diverting it to one side, away from the thirsty people, and they assert that they are producing
this water, and that soon enough will be collected for all.  But this water which has flowed,
and which still flows unceasingly, and nourishes all mankind, not only is not the result of
the activity of the men who, standing at its source, turn it aside, but this water flows and
gushes out, in spite of the efforts of these men to obstruct its flow.

There have always existed a true science, and a true art; but true science and art are not
such because they called themselves by that name. It always seems to those who claim at any
given period to be the representatives of science and art, that they have performed, and are
performing, and--most of all--that they will presently perform, the most amazing marvels, and
that beside them there never has been and there is not any science or any art.  Thus it seemed
to the sophists, the scholastics, the alchemists, the cabalists, the talmudists; and thus it
seems to our own scientific science, and to our art for the sake of art.

CHAPTER V.

"But art,--science!  You repudiate art and science; that is, you repudiate that by which mankind
lives!" After a time reasonable,
he would say that was passing through a philosopher Pillars stranger, whom he had invited to give
a lecture at the Casino, and if he, Bellarmine, wanted to hear, since it was the only philosopher
of the town, which would place him in a room adjoining the hall, behind the curtains, where listen
without being seen. Of all these measures would be responsible Escobar, the Estudiantón, being with
whom Bellarmine showed greater confidence and esteem. No Bellarmine thought he could recognize
his own voice, because, actually, in that device still rudimentary, it is to distinguish clearly
between words, all the voices sounded with the same timbre ronquecino homogeneous.

When requested Estudiantón Bellarmine to expose your system, the shoemaker said with gentle
irony:

- What is a system? Maybe what you call system is not what I call system. I Thank God, I have
no system.

What you mean is abscess. Nor, thanks to God, I have abscess.

- Well, well, Bellarmine; confess I do not understand you yet. Therefore, precisely not satiate
me to hear him, and I hope that you give us a sort of abbreviated
or summary set their ideas.

If I do not understand, you understand, because it is bilingual and
knows what I ask.

Do you agree?

- I know what you ask, and I have no difficulty in accepting. But I need a week of meditation.

Performance
of the week, Bellarmine was made in the designated place. Said they had last not a week of meditation,
but many months of fasting, the noble, aquiline face, as gaunt, it was almost translucent, the
little body, so small and emaciated, barely hung over the ground.

He entered the room without flinching, without rocking a look of curiosity about; sat where he said,
bowed his head and spoke softly, without turning or change of tone;
completed and returned with the same serenity and imperturbable distraction
to his hovel.

They spent another two weeks.

As agreed, were two students, also members of the Casino, Bellarmine
invite if I wanted to hear, from a hideout, a philosopher of way.

-
Where is the philosopher? - Belarmino said.

- De Kenisberga - said
one of the students who was very brash.

- What is your name?

- Cleo
de Merode.

- And what is this?

- Go, then a philosopher.

All philosophers speak a particular language.

Bellarmine thought for a point. That philosophers speak a special language, I knew him, but he could
be in doubt if each philosopher spoke a different language, invented by himself, or if everyone
spoke the same.

If the latter, then the philosophers were obviously loved privileged,
who had reached the absolute truth by direct revelation.

- Draw a
crowd? - Belarmino said.

- Anda, and the most beautiful and elegant
ladies of Pilares.

- A philosopher beautiful and elegant ladies?

Well is it! - Bellarmine exclaimed, disappointed.

The student corrected awake in a jiffy:

- Whims of the Ladies .... Have heard: a philosopher, and have said,
as we shall see, will a freak.

- Ah, now!

- There is a small room
that communicates with the hall, where you can hear everything beautifully.

In this little room will be some people who do not like to mingle
with the public, for reasons worthy of respect, for example, Escobar,
the Alligator.

How is he going to sit with that beggar's clothes, next to the ladies? In short: you come
with us.

Belarmino, after learning that the philosopher would speak to women,
no longer had any interest to hear.

But he got carried away, with resigned indifference.

All the intrigue had been so skillfully developed, that Bellarmine, despite his shrewdness instinctive,
not suspected to be the victim of a hoax.

In the small room were about twenty people, the most conspicuous
of Bellarmine and antibelarminismo.

But the point lies here,--that the scope of the knowledge of all mankind as a whole is so multifarious,
ranging from the knowledge of how to extract iron to the knowledge of the movements of the
planets, that man loses himself in this multitude of existing knowledge,--knowledge capable
of endless possibilities, if he have no guiding thread, by the aid of which he can classify
this knowledge, and arrange the branches according to the degrees of their significance and
importance.

Before a man undertakes to learn any thing whatever, he must make up his mind that that branch
of knowledge is of weight to him, and of more weight and importance than the countless other
objects of study with which he is surrounded.  Before undertaking the study of any thing, a
man decides for what purpose he is studying this subject, and not the others. But to study
every thing, as the men of scientific science in our day preach, without any idea of what is
to come out of such study, is downright impossible, because the number of subjects of study
is endless; and hence, no matter how many branches we may acquire, their acquisition can possess
no significance or reason.  And, therefore, in ancient times, down to even a very recent date,
until the appearance of scientific science, man's highest wisdom consisted in finding that
guiding thread, according to which the knowledge of men should be classified as being of primary
or of secondary importance.  And this knowledge, which forms the guide to all other branches
of knowledge, men have always called science in the strictest acceptation of the word.  And
such science there has always been, even down to our own day, in all human communities which
have emerged from their primal state of savagery.

Ever since mankind has existed, teachers have always arisen among peoples, who have enunciated
science in this restricted sense,--the science of what it is most useful for man to know. 
This science has always had for its object the knowledge of what is the true ground of the
well-being of each individual man, and of all men, and why.  Such was the science of Confucius,
of Buddha, of Socrates, of Mahomet, and of others; such is this science as they understood
it, and as all men--with the exception of our little circle of so-called cultured people--understand
it.  This science has not only always occupied the highest place, but has been the only and
sole science, from which the standing of the rest has been determined.  And this was the case,
not in the least because, as the so-called scientific people of our day think, cunning priestly
teachers of this science attributed to it such significance, but because in reality, as every
one knows, both by personal experience and by reflection, there can be no science except the
science of that in which the destiny and welfare of man consist.  For the objects of science
are incalculable in number,--I undermine the word "incalculable" in the exact sense in which
I understand it,--and without the knowledge of that in which the destiny and welfare of all
men consist, there is no possibility of making a choice amid this interminable multitude of
subjects; and therefore, without this knowledge, all other arts and branches of learning will
become, as they have become among us, an idle and hurtful diversion.

Mankind has existed and existed, and never has it existed without the science of that in which
the destiny and the welfare of men consist.  It is true that the science of the welfare of
men appears different on superficial observation, among the Buddhists, the Brahmins, the Hebrews,
the Confucians, the Tauists; but nevertheless, wherever we hear of men who have emerged from
a state of savagery, we find this science.  And all of a sudden it appears that the men of
our day have decided that this same science, which has hitherto served as the guiding thread
of all human knowledge, is the very thing which hinders every thing.  Men erect buildings;
and one architect has made one estimate of cost, a second has made another, and a third yet
another.  The estimates differ somewhat; but they are correct, so that any one can see, that,
if the whole is carried out in accordance with the calculations, the building will be erected.
Along come people, and assert that the chief point lies in having no estimates, and that it
should be built thus--by the eye.  And this "thus," men call the most accurate of scientific
science.  Men repudiate every science, the very substance of science,--the definition of the
destiny and the welfare of men,--and this repudiation they designate as science.

Ever since men have existed, great minds have been born into their midst, which, in the conflict
with reason and conscience, have put to themselves questions as to "what constitutes welfare,--the
destiny and welfare, not of myself alone, but of every man?"  What does that power which has
created and which leads me, demand of me and of every man?  And what is it necessary for me
to do, in order to comply with the requirements imposed upon me by the demands of individual
and universal welfare?  They have asked themselves: "I am a whole, and also a part of something
infinite, eternal; what, then, are my relations to other parts similar to myself, to men and
to the whole--to the world?"

And from the voices of conscience and of reason, and from a comparison of what their contemporaries
and men who had lived before them, and who had propounded to themselves the same questions,
had said, these great teachers have deduced their doctrines, which were simple, clear, intelligible
to all men, and always such as were susceptible of fulfilment.  Such men have existed of the
first, second, third, and lowest ranks.  The world is full of such men.  Every living man propounds
the question to himself, how to reconcile the demands of welfare, and of his personal existence,
with conscience and reason; and from this universal labor, slowly but uninterruptedly, new
forms of life, which are more in accord with the requirements of reason and of conscience,
are worked out.

All at once, a new caste of people makes its appearance, and they say, "All this is nonsense;
all this must be abandoned."  This is the deductive method of ratiocination (wherein lies the
difference between the deductive and the inductive method, no one can understand); these are
the dogmas of the technological and metaphysical period. 

From this it follows that the extension is a necessary condition to our feelings, but it itself
is not felt. But not to be felt no longer known, and this is me leads to other considerations,
leaving the phenomenal order, and entering the transcendental lead to extremely serious, extremely
difficult, intractable so far, and it is feared they are also older.

[10.] We have seen that the extension itself, not to be confused with the object of other feelings: What
is it then?  According to this
new doctrine, it appears that you are cells: and that you, as a cell, have a very definite
functional activity, which you not only fulfil, but which you infallibly feel within you; and
that you are a thinking, talking, understanding cell, and that you, for this reason, can ask
another similar talking cell whether it is just the same, and in this way verify your own experience;
that you can take advantage of the fact that speaking cells, which have lived before you, have
written on the same subject, and that you have millions of cells which confirm your observations
by their agreement with the cells which have written down their thoughts,--all this signifies
nothing; all this is an evil and an erroneous method.

The true scientific method is this: If you wish to know in what the destiny and the welfare
of all mankind and of all the world consists, you must, first of all, cease to listen to the
voices of your conscience and of your reason, which present themselves in you and in others
like you; you must cease to believe all that the great teachers of mankind have said with regard
to your conscience and reason, and you must consider all this as nonsense, and begin all over
again.  And, in order to understand every thing from the beginning, you must look through microscopes
at the movements of amoebae, and cells in worms, or, with still greater composure, believe
in every thing that men with a diploma of infallibility shall say to you about them.  And as
you gaze at the movements of these cells, or read about what others have seen, you must attribute
to these cells your own human sensations and calculations as to what they desire, whither they
are directing themselves, how they compare and discuss, and to what they have become accustomed;
and from these observations (in which there is not a word about an error of thought or of expression)
you must deduce a conclusion by analogy as to what you are, what is your destiny, wherein lies
the welfare of yourself and of other cells like you. Apollo went without deigning while Novillo painted an old poem the
same way, of love's crazy, horrible, and criminal nature.

Criminal,
yes criminal because, nonetheless Stand with its light and cursed
tongue

.  And the same with art.  Where there has
been true science, art has always been its exponent.

Ever since men have been in existence, they have been in the habit of deducing, from all pursuits,
the expressions of various branches of learning concerning the destiny and the welfare of man,
and the expression of this knowledge has been art in the strict sense of the word.

Ever since men have existed, there have been those who were peculiarly sensitive and responsive
to the doctrine regarding the destiny and welfare of man; who have given expression to their
own and the popular conflict, to the delusions which lead them astray from their destinies,
their sufferings in this conflict, their hopes in the triumph of good, them despair over the
triumph of evil, and their raptures in the consciousness of the approaching bliss of man, on
viol and tabret, in images and words.  Always, down to the most recent times, art has served
science and life,--only then was it what has been so highly esteemed of men.  But art, in its
capacity of an important human activity, disappeared simultaneously with the substitution for
the genuine science of destiny and welfare, of the science of any thing you choose to fancy.
Art has existed among all peoples, and will exist until that which among us is scornfully called
religion has come to be considered the only science. A
gaznápiro with skirts, if belonging to the lower family, he was admitted to the best families, but
does not have a penny, not scorn the rich, even a madman, I hear politicians and academics,
even uglier than Pici, will look to with delight the most beautiful women. Everything depends
on his knowledge managed. Soon we to my husband and I if you do not bishop. You've seen this
idiot of Facundo, as bishop like St. Augustine. And the poor Chapaprieta not have a bishop and
because of that, so engurruñado, dull and mellifluous, nothing can be done, as it is not Mother Abbess.
You are ready and no prude. Habits do not sit as a crinoline. Where appropriate, you know roll up.


Glance backward into the past, and you will see that in the course of thousands of years, out
of milliards of people, only half a score of Confucius', Buddhas, Solomons, Socrates, Solons,
and Homers have been produced.  Evidently, they are rarely met with among men, in spite of
the fact that these men have not been selected from a single caste, but from mankind at large.
Evidently, these true teachers and artists and learned men, the purveyors of spiritual nourishment,
are rare.  And it is not without reason that mankind has valued and still values them so highly.

But it now appears, that all these great factors in the science and art of the past are no
longer of use to us.  Nowadays, scientific and artistic authorities can, in accordance with
the law of division of labor, be turned out by factory methods; and, in one decade, more great
men have been manufactured in art and science, than have ever been born of such among all nations,
since the foundation of the world.  Nowadays there is a guild of learned men and artists, and
they prepare, by perfected methods, all that spiritual food which man requires.  And they have
prepared so much of it, that it is no longer necessary to refer to the elder authorities, who
have preceded them,--not only to the ancients, but to those much nearer to us.  All that was
the activity of the theological and metaphysical period,--all that must be wiped out: but the
true, the rational activity began, say, fifty years ago, and in the course of those fifty years
we have made so many great men, that there are about ten great men to every branch of science.
And there have come to be so many sciences, that, fortunately, it is easy to make them.  All
that is required is to add the Greek word "logy" to the name, and force them to conform to
a set rubric, and the science is all complete.  They have created so many sciences, that not
only can no one man know them all, but not a single individual can remember all the titles
of all the existing sciences; the titles alone form a thick lexicon, and new sciences are manufactured
every day.  They have been manufactured on the pattern of that Finnish teacher who taught the
landed proprietor's children Finnish instead of French.  Every thing has been excellently inculcated;
but there is one objection,--that no one except ourselves can understand any thing of it, and
all this is reckoned as utterly useless nonsense.  However, there is an explanation even for
this.  People do not appreciate the full value of scientific science, because they are under
the influence of the theological period, that profound period when all the people, both among
the Hebrews, and the Chinese, and the Indians, and the Greeks, understood every thing that
their great teachers said to them.

But, from whatever cause this has come about, the fact remains, that sciences and arts have
always existed among mankind, and, when they really did exist, they were useful and intelligible
to all the people. But we practise something which we call science and art, but it appears
that what we do is unnecessary and unintelligible to man.  And hence, however beautiful may
be the things that we accomplish, we have no right to call them arts and sciences. In the more ordinary acceptation, expresses the impression that it is transmitted
to us by any of the bodies of the five senses. Taken the word in this sense, clear is to be
limited to these alone, but considered it expresses some kind of phenomena animals, is to experience
a condition, caused by an impression of the body. And this is as true in the same general purpose
use the word feel, in a respecter but can, not limiting it to the impressions of the five senses.


Generally this is what people say, striving to forget that new principle of the division of
labor, on the basis of which science and art now occupy their privileged position, and on whose
basis we are now enabled to decide without grounds, but by a given standard: Is there, or is
there not, any foundation for that activity which calls itself science and art, to so magnify
itself?

When the Egyptian or the Grecian priests produced their mysteries, which were unintelligible
to any one, and stated concerning these mysteries that all science and all art were contained
in them, I could not verify the reality of their science on the basis of the benefit procured
by them to the people, because science, according to their assertions, was supernatural.  But
now we all possess a very simple and clear definition of the activity of art and science, which
excludes every thing supernatural: science and art promise to carry out the mental activity
of mankind, for the welfare of society, or of all the human race.

The definition of scientific science and art is entirely correct; but, unfortunately, the activity
of the present arts and sciences does not come under this head.  Some of them are directly
injurious, others are useless, others still are worthless,--good only for the wealthy.  They
do not fulfil that which, by their own definition, they have undertaken to accomplish; and
hence they have as little right to regard themselves as men of art and science, as a corrupt
priesthood, which does not fulfil the obligations which it has assumed, has the right to regard
itself as the bearer of divine truth. 

It's likely that we clink blink and see the object before us. By blinking, we give ourselves a
point of reference, and also replicate the look of the object by using the position of everything
around us. From this, we understand distance, and are able to determine distance relative to the plane
of where the object is positioned. Luckily, it is not necessary that we conform to these ideas.
  The thinker or the artist should suffer in company with the
people, in order that he may find salvation or consolation.  Besides this, he will suffer because
he is always and eternally in turmoil and agitation: he might decide and say that that which
would confer welfare on men, would free them from suffering, would afford them consolation;
but he has not said so, and has not presented it as he should have done; he has not decided,
and he has not spoken; and to-morrow, possibly, it will be too late,--he will die. And therefore
suffering and self-sacrifice will always be the lot of the thinker and the artist.

Not of this description will be the thinker and artist who is reared in an establishment where,
apparently, they manufacture the learned man or the artist (but in point of fact, they manufacture
destroyers of science and of art), who receives a diploma and a certificate, who would be glad
not to think and not to express that which is imposed on his soul, but who cannot avoid doing
that to which two irresistible forces draw him,--an inward prompting, and the demand of men.

There will be no sleek, plump, self-satisfied thinkers and artists. Spiritual activity, and
its expression, which are actually necessary to others, are the most burdensome of all man's
avocations; a cross, as the Gospels phrase it.  And the sole indubitable sign of the presence
of a vocation is self-devotion, the sacrifice of self for the manifestation of the power that
is imposed upon man for the benefit of others.

It is possible to study out how many beetles there are in the world, to view the spots on the
sun, to write romances and operas, without suffering; but it is impossible, without self-sacrifice,
to instruct people in their true happiness, which consists solely in renunciation of self and
the service of others, and to give strong expression to this doctrine, without self-sacrifice.

Christ did not die on the cross in vain; not in vain does the sacrifice of suffering conquer
all things.

But our art and science are provided with certificates and diplomas; and the only anxiety of
all men is, how to still better guarantee them, i.e., how to render the service of the people
impracticable for them.

