O.M. Then your question is answered. You see there IS use in training. Keep on. Keeping faithfully
on. You are doing well.

Y.M. Will my reform reach perfection?

O.M. It will. UP to YOUR limit.

Y.M. My limit? What do you mean by that?

O.M. You remember that you said that I said training was EVERYTHING. I corrected you, and said
"training and ANOTHER thing." That other thing is TEMPERAMENT--that is, the disposition you
were born with. YOU CAN'T ERADICATE YOUR DISPOSITION NOR ANY RAG OF IT--you can only put a
pressure on it and keep it down and quiet. You have a warm temper?

Y.M. Yes.

O.M. You will never get rid of it; but by watching it you can keep it down nearly all the time.
ITS PRESENCE IS YOUR LIMIT. Your reform will never quite reach perfection, for your temper
will beat you now and then, but you come near enough. You have made valuable progress and can
make more. There IS use in training. Immense use. Presently you will reach a new stage of development,
then your progress will be easier; will proceed on a simpler basis, anyway.

Y.M. Explain.

O.M. You keep back your scoldings now, to please YOURSELF by pleasing your MOTHER; presently
the mere triumphing over your temper will delight your vanity and confer a more delicious pleasure
and satisfaction upon you than even the approbation of your MOTHER confers upon you now. You
will then labor for yourself directly and at FIRST HAND, not by the roundabout way through
your mother. It simplifies the matter, and it also strengthens the impulse.

Y.M. Ah, dear! But I sha'n't ever reach the point where I will spare the girl for HER sake
PRIMARILY, not mine?

O.M. Why--yes. In heaven.

Y.M. (AFTER A REFLECTIVE PAUSE) Temperament. Well, I see one must allow for temperament. It
is a large factor, sure enough. My mother is thoughtful, and not hot-tempered. When I was dressed
I went to her room; she was not there; I called, she answered from the bathroom. I heard the
water running. I inquired. She answered, without temper, that Jane had forgotten her bath,
and she was preparing it herself. I offered to ring, but she said, "No, don't do that; it would
only distress her to be confronted with her lapse, and would be a rebuke; she doesn't deserve
that--she is not to blame for the tricks her memory serves her." I say--has my mother an Interior
Master?--and where was he?

O.M. He was there. There, and looking out for his own peace and pleasure and contentment. The
girl's distress would have pained YOUR MOTHER. Otherwise the girl would have been rung up,
distress and all. I know women who would have gotten a No. 1 PLEASURE out of ringing Jane up--and
so they would infallibly have pushed the button and obeyed the law of their make and training,
which are the servants of their Interior Masters. It is quite likely that a part of your mother's
forbearance came from training. The GOOD kind of training--whose best and highest function
is to see to it that every time it confers a satisfaction upon its pupil a benefit shall fall
at second hand upon others.

Y.M. If you were going to condense into an admonition your plan for the general betterment
of the race's condition, how would you word it?

Admonition

O.M. Diligently train your ideals UPWARD and STILL UPWARD toward a summit where you will find
your chiefest pleasure in conduct which, while contenting you, will be sure to confer benefits
upon your neighbor and the community.

Y.M. Is that a new gospel?

O.M. No.

Y.M. It has been taught before?

O.M. For ten thousand years.

Y.M. By whom?

O.M. All the great religions--all the great gospels.

Y.M. Then there is nothing new about it?

O.M. Oh yes, there is. It is candidly stated, this time. That has not been done before.

Y.M. How do you mean?

O.M. Haven't I put YOU FIRST, and your neighbor and the community AFTERWARD?

Y.M. Well, yes, that is a difference, it is true.

O.M. The difference between straight speaking and crooked; the difference between frankness
and shuffling.

Y.M. Explain.

O.M. The others offer your a hundred bribes to be good, thus conceding that the Master inside
of you must be conciliated and contented first, and that you will do nothing at FIRST HAND
but for his sake; then they turn square around and require you to do good for OTHER'S sake
CHIEFLY; and to do your duty for duty's SAKE, chiefly; and to do acts of SELF-SACRIFICE. Thus
at the outset we all stand upon the same ground--recognition of the supreme and absolute Monarch
that resides in man, and we all grovel before him and appeal to him; then those others dodge
and shuffle, and face around and unfrankly and inconsistently and illogically change the form
of their appeal and direct its persuasions to man's SECOND-PLACE powers and to powers which
have NO EXISTENCE in him, thus advancing them to FIRST place; whereas in my Admonition I stick
logically and consistently to the original position: I place the Interior Master's requirements
FIRST, and keep them there.

Y.M. If we grant, for the sake of argument, that your scheme and the other schemes aim at and
produce the same result--RIGHT LIVING--has yours an advantage over the others?

O.M. One, yes--a large one. It has no concealments, no deceptions. When a man leads a right
and valuable life under it he is not deceived as to the REAL chief motive which impels him
to it--in those other cases he is.

Y.M. Is that an advantage? Is it an advantage to live a lofty life for a mean reason? In the
other cases he lives the lofty life under the IMPRESSION that he is living for a lofty reason.
Is not that an advantage?

O.M. Perhaps so. The same advantage he might get out of thinking himself a duke, and living
a duke's life and parading in ducal fuss and feathers, when he wasn't a duke at all, and could
find it out if he would only examine the herald's records.

Y.M. But anyway, he is obliged to do a duke's part; he puts his hand in his pocket and does
his benevolences on as big a scale as he can stand, and that benefits the community.

O.M. He could do that without being a duke.

Y.M. But would he?

O.M. Don't you see where you are arriving?

Y.M. Where?

O.M. At the standpoint of the other schemes: That it is good morals to let an ignorant duke
do showy benevolences for his pride's sake, a pretty low motive, and go on doing them unwarned,
lest if he were made acquainted with the actual motive which prompted them he might shut up
his purse and cease to be good?

Y.M. But isn't it best to leave him in ignorance, as long as he THINKS he is doing good for
others' sake?

O.M. Perhaps so. It is the position of the other schemes. They think humbug is good enough
morals when the dividend on it is good deeds and handsome conduct.

Y.M. It is my opinion that under your scheme of a man's doing a good deed for his OWN sake
first-off, instead of first for the GOOD DEED'S sake, no man would ever do one.

O.M. Have you committed a benevolence lately?

Y.M. Yes. This morning.

O.M. Give the particulars.

Y.M. The cabin of the old negro woman who used to nurse me when I was a child and who saved
my life once at the risk of her own, was burned last night, and she came mourning this morning,
and pleading for money to build another one.

O.M. You furnished it?

Y.M. Certainly.

O.M. You were glad you had the money?

Y.M. Money? I hadn't. I sold my horse.

O.M. You were glad you had the horse?

Y.M. Of course I was; for if I hadn't had the horse I should have been incapable, and my MOTHER
would have captured the chance to set old Sally up.

O.M. You were cordially glad you were not caught out and incapable?

Y.M. Oh, I just was!

O.M. Now, then--

Y.M. Stop where you are! I know your whole catalog of questions, and I could answer every one
of them without your wasting the time to ask them; but I will summarize the whole thing in
a single remark: I did the charity knowing it was because the act would give ME a splendid
pleasure, and because old Sally's moving gratitude and delight would give ME another one; and
because the reflection that she would be happy now and out of her trouble would fill ME full
of happiness. I did the whole thing with my eyes open and recognizing and realizing that I
was looking out for MY share of the profits FIRST. Now then, I have confessed. Go on.

O.M. I haven't anything to offer; you have covered the whole ground. Can you have been any
MORE strongly moved to help Sally out of her trouble--could you have done the deed any more
eagerly--if you had been under the delusion that you were doing it for HER sake and profit only?

Y.M. No! Nothing in the world could have made the impulse which moved me more powerful, more
masterful, more thoroughly irresistible. I played the limit!

O.M. Very well. You begin to suspect--and I claim to KNOW--that when a man is a shade MORE
STRONGLY MOVED to do ONE of two things or of two dozen things than he is to do any one of the
OTHERS, he will infallibly do that ONE thing, be it good or be it evil; and if it be good,
not all the beguilements of all the casuistries can increase the strength of the impulse by
a single shade or add a shade to the comfort and contentment he will get out of the act.

Y.M. Then you believe that such tendency toward doing good as is in men's hearts would not
be diminished by the removal of the delusion that good deeds are done primarily for the sake
of No. 2 instead of for the sake of No. 1?

O.M. That is what I fully believe.

Y.M. Doesn't it somehow seem to take from the dignity of the deed?

O.M. If there is dignity in falsity, it does. It removes that.

Y.M. What is left for the moralists to do?

O.M. Teach unreservedly what he already teaches with one side of his mouth and takes back with
the other: Do right FOR YOUR OWN SAKE, and be happy in knowing that your NEIGHBOR will certainly
share in the benefits resulting.

Y.M. One's EVERY act proceeds from EXTERIOR INFLUENCES, you think?

O.M. Yes.

Y.M. If I conclude to rob a person, I am not the ORIGINATOR of the idea, but it comes in from
the OUTSIDE? The atmosphere soaks up some parts of the light which it receives.

It is not all reflected or refracted or even penetrative.
Objects that are seen under different degrees of light either meant to transfer or to delay by
different means, may appear near or far, clear or unclear. Due to this we are surprised at
how near or bright we assume a shore or neighbouring island may be in certain conditions of the air
or even at times how distant and shadowy they may seem.
The way a ship or other such vessel sometimes appears on the water is another common example of
refraction.
Most people have noticed that during very warm but moist summer nights that the moon appears much
larger as she rises than when it reaches its Zenith. Which also means that the sun appears increased
in size.Sir John Herschel states that it is a mere illusion and so
do many others.

Professor Carey states that if we were to look through a paper tube
folded to the moons exact size when it is on the horizon and then
do so again when it reaches it's zenith there would be no difference
in the size at all.

An experiment is offered by a German professor called Milo.

If we were to look through a tube made to have one side filled with
wine and the other with air the half of the object seen through the
wine will appear to be much larger to the eye than the half with air.

Where extraordinary refraction takes place either alongside or upright
the visual angle of the onlooker will be larger and objects will be
magnified as if seen through a telescope or magnifying glass.

Dr Scoresby a famous meteorologist and navigator mentions some strange instances of the effects
that he has seen on the Atlantic Ocean.
Many unusual occurences are present in this state of the atmosphere
known as the Fata Morgana of Sicily, the Mirage of the Desert, the
Spectre of the Brocken and the more common exhibitions of halos,corona
and mock suns.

The Mountain house at Catskill has been seen a lot brightly pictured
on the clouds below.

Rainbows are also due to the conditions of the atmosphere.
 At last it is ready to yield to a temptation which it would
have taken no notice of, ten or twenty years ago. We will apply that temptation in the form
of a pressure of my finger. You note the result?

Y.M. Yes; the ingot has crumbled to sand. I understand, now. It is not the SINGLE outside influence
that does the work, but only the LAST one of a long and disintegrating accumulation of them.
I see, now, how my SINGLE impulse to rob the man is not the one that makes me do it, but only
the LAST one of a preparatory series. You might illustrate with a parable.

A Parable

O.M. I will. There was once a pair of New England boys--twins. They were alike in good dispositions,
feckless morals, and personal appearance. They were the models of the Sunday-school. At fifteen
George had the opportunity to go as cabin-boy in a whale-ship, and sailed away for the Pacific.
Henry remained at home in the village. At eighteen George was a sailor before the mast, and
Henry was teacher of the advanced Bible class. At twenty-two George, through fighting-habits
and drinking-habits acquired at sea and in the sailor boarding-houses of the European and Oriental
ports, was a common rough in Hong-Kong, and out of a job; and Henry was superintendent of the
Sunday-school. At twenty-six George was a wanderer, a tramp, and Henry was pastor of the village
church. Then George came home, and was Henry's guest. One evening a man passed by and turned
down the lane, and Henry said, with a pathetic smile, "Without intending me a discomfort, that
man is always keeping me reminded of my pinching poverty, for he carries heaps of money about
him, and goes by here every evening of his life." That OUTSIDE INFLUENCE--that remark--was
enough for George, but IT was not the one that made him ambush the man and rob him, it merely
represented the eleven years' accumulation of such influences, and gave birth to the act for
which their long gestation had made preparation. It had never entered the head of Henry to
rob the man--his ingot had been subjected to clean steam only; but George's had been subjected
to vaporized quicksilver.

V

More About the Machine

Note.--When Mrs. W. asks how can a millionaire give a single dollar to colleges and museums
while one human being is destitute of bread, she has answered her question herself. Her feeling
for the poor shows that she has a standard of benevolence; there she has conceded the millionaire's
privilege of having a standard; since she evidently requires him to adopt her standard, she
is by that act requiring herself to adopt his. The human being always looks down when he is
examining another person's standard; he never find one that he has to examine by looking up.

The Man-Machine Again

Young Man. You really think man is a mere machine?

Old Man. I do.

Y.M. And that his mind works automatically and is independent of his control--carries on thought
on its own hook?

O.M. Yes. It is diligently at work, unceasingly at work, during every waking moment. Have you
never tossed about all night, imploring, beseeching, commanding your mind to stop work and
let you go to sleep?--you who perhaps imagine that your mind is your servant and must obey
your orders, think what you tell it to think, and stop when you tell it to stop. When it chooses
to work, there is no way to keep it still for an instant. The brightest man would not be able
to supply it with subjects if he had to hunt them up. If it needed the man's help it would
wait for him to give it work when he wakes in the morning.

Y.M. Maybe it does.

O.M. No, it begins right away, before the man gets wide enough awake to give it a suggestion.
He may go to sleep saying, "The moment I wake I will think upon such and such a subject," but
he will fail. His mind will be too quick for him; by the time he has become nearly enough awake
to be half conscious, he will find that it is already at work upon another subject. Make the
experiment and see.

Y.M. At any rate, he can make it stick to a subject if he wants to.

O.M. Not if it find another that suits it better. As a rule it will listen to neither a dull
speaker nor a bright one. It refuses all persuasion. The dull speaker wearies it and sends
it far away in idle dreams; the bright speaker throws out stimulating ideas which it goes chasing
after and is at once unconscious of him and his talk. You cannot keep your mind from wandering,
if it wants to; it is master, not you.

After an Interval of Days

O.M. Now, dreams--but we will examine that later. Meantime, did you try commanding your mind
to wait for orders from you, and not do any thinking on its own hook?

Y.M. Yes, I commanded it to stand ready to take orders when I should wake in the morning.

O.M. Did it obey?

Y.M. No. It went to thinking of something of its own initiation, without waiting for me. Also--as
you suggested--at night I appointed a theme for it to begin on in the morning, and commanded
it to begin on that one and no other.

O.M. Did it obey?

Y.M. No.

O.M. How many times did you try the experiment?

Y.M. Ten.

O.M. How many successes did you score?

Y.M. Not one.

O.M. It is as I have said: the mind is independent of the man. He has no control over it; it
does as it pleases. It will take up a subject in spite of him; it will stick to it in spite
of him; it will throw it aside in spite of him. It is entirely independent of him.

Y.M. Go on. Illustrate.

O.M. Do you know chess?

Y.M. I learned it a week ago.

O.M. Did your mind go on playing the game all night that first night?

Y.M. Don't mention it!

O.M. It was eagerly, unsatisfiably interested; it rioted in the combinations; you implored
it to drop the game and let you get some sleep?

Y.M. Yes. It wouldn't listen; it played right along. It wore me out and I got up haggard and
wretched in the morning.

O.M. At some time or other you have been captivated by a ridiculous rhyme-jingle?

Y.M. Indeed, yes!

"I saw Esau kissing Kate, And she saw I saw Esau; I saw Esau, he saw Kate, And she saw--"

And so on. My mind went mad with joy over it. It repeated it all day and all night for a week
in spite of all I could do to stop it, and it seemed to me that I must surely go crazy.

O.M. And the new popular song?

Y.M. Oh yes! "In the Swee-eet By and By"; etc. Yes, the new popular song with the taking melody
sings through one's head day and night, asleep and awake, till one is a wreck. There is no
getting the mind to let it alone.

O.M. Yes, asleep as well as awake. The mind is quite independent. It is master. You have nothing
to do with it. It is so apart from you that it can conduct its affairs, sing its songs, play
its chess, weave its complex and ingeniously constructed dreams, while you sleep. It has no
use for your help, no use for your guidance, and never uses either, whether you be asleep or
awake. You have imagined that you could originate a thought in your mind, and you have sincerely
believed you could do it.

Y.M. Yes, I have had that idea.

O.M. Yet you can't originate a dream-thought for it to work out, and get it accepted?

Y.M. No.

O.M. And you can't dictate its procedure after it has originated a dream-thought for itself?

Y.M. No. No one can do it. Do you think the waking mind and the dream mind are the same machine?

O.M. There is argument for it. We have wild and fantastic day-thoughts? Things that are dream-like?

Y.M. Yes--like Mr. Wells's man who invented a drug that made him invisible; and like the Arabian
tales of the Thousand Nights.

O.M. And there are dreams that are rational, simple, consistent, and unfantastic?

Y.M. Yes. I have dreams that are like that. Dreams that are just like real life; dreams in
which there are several persons with distinctly differentiated characters--inventions of my
mind and yet strangers to me: a vulgar person; a refined one; a wise person; a fool; a cruel
person; a kind and compassionate one; a quarrelsome person; a peacemaker; old persons and young;
beautiful girls and homely ones. They talk in character, each preserves his own characteristics.
There are vivid fights, vivid and biting insults, vivid love-passages; there are tragedies
and comedies, there are griefs that go to one's heart, there are sayings and doings that make
you laugh: indeed, the whole thing is exactly like real life.

O.M. Your dreaming mind originates the scheme, consistently and artistically develops it, and
carries the little drama creditably through--all without help or suggestion from you?

Y.M. Yes.

O.M. It is argument that it could do the like awake without help or suggestion from you--and
I think it does. It is argument that it is the same old mind in both cases, and never needs
your help. I think the mind is purely a machine, a thoroughly independent machine, an automatic
machine. Have you tried the other experiment which I suggested to you?

Y.M. Which one?

O.M. The one which was to determine how much influence you have over your mind--if any.

Y.M. Yes, and got more or less entertainment out of it. I did as you ordered: I placed two
texts before my eyes--one a dull one and barren of interest, the other one full of interest,
inflamed with it, white-hot with it. I commanded my mind to busy itself solely with the dull one.

O.M. Did it obey?

Y.M. Well, no, it didn't. It busied itself with the other one.

O.M. Did you try hard to make it obey?

Y.M. Yes, I did my honest best.

O.M. What was the text which it refused to be interested in or think about?

Y.M. It was this question: If A owes B a dollar and a half, and B owes C two and three-quarter,
and C owes A thirty-five cents, and D and A together owe E and B three-sixteenths of--of--I
don't remember the rest, now, but anyway it was wholly uninteresting, and I could not force
my mind to stick to it even half a minute at a time; it kept flying off to the other text.

O.M. What was the other text?

Y.M. It is no matter about that.

O.M. But what was it?

Y.M. A photograph.

O.M. Your own?

Y.M. No. It was hers.

O.M. You really made an honest good test. Did you make a second trial?

Y.M. Yes. I commanded my mind to interest itself in the morning paper's report of the pork-market,
and at the same time I reminded it of an experience of mine of sixteen years ago. It refused
to consider the pork and gave its whole blazing interest to that ancient incident.

O.M. What was the incident?

Y.M. An armed desperado slapped my face in the presence of twenty spectators. It makes me wild
and murderous every time I think of it.

O.M. Good tests, both; very good tests. Did you try my other suggestion?

Y.M. The one which was to prove to me that if I would leave my mind to its own devices it would
find things to think about without any of my help, and thus convince me that it was a machine,
an automatic machine, set in motion by exterior influences, and as independent of me as it
could be if it were in some one else's skull. Is that the one?

O.M. Yes.

Y.M. I tried it. I was shaving. I had slept well, and my mind was very lively, even gay and
frisky. It was reveling in a fantastic and joyful episode of my remote boyhood which had suddenly
flashed up in my memory--moved to this by the spectacle of a yellow cat picking its way carefully
along the top of the garden wall. The color of this cat brought the bygone cat before me, and
I saw her walking along the side-step of the pulpit; saw her walk on to a large sheet of sticky
fly-paper and get all her feet involved; saw her struggle and fall down, helpless and dissatisfied,
more and more urgent, more and more unreconciled, more and more mutely profane; saw the silent
congregation quivering like jelly, and the tears running down their faces. I saw it all. The
sight of the tears whisked my mind to a far distant and a sadder scene--in Terra del Fuego--and
with Darwin's eyes I saw a naked great savage hurl his little boy against the rocks for a trifling
fault; saw the poor mother gather up her dying child and hug it to her breast and weep, uttering
no word. Did my mind stop to mourn with that nude black sister of mine? No--it was far away
from that scene in an instant, and was busying itself with an ever-recurring and disagreeable
dream of mine. In this dream I always find myself, stripped to my shirt, cringing and dodging
about in the midst of a great drawing-room throng of finely dressed ladies and gentlemen, and
wondering how I got there. And so on and so on, picture after picture, incident after incident,
a drifting panorama of ever-changing, ever-dissolving views manufactured by my mind without
any help from me--why, it would take me two hours to merely name the multitude of things my
mind tallied off and photographed in fifteen minutes, let alone describe them to you.

O.M. A man's mind, left free, has no use for his help. But there is one way whereby he can
get its help when he desires it.

Y.M. What is that way?

O.M. When your mind is racing along from subject to subject and strikes an inspiring one, open
your mouth and begin talking upon that matter--or--take your pen and use that. It will interest
your mind and concentrate it, and it will pursue the subject with satisfaction. It will take
full charge, and furnish the words itself.

Y.M. But don't I tell it what to say?

O.M. There are certainly occasions when you haven't time. The words leap out before you know
what is coming.

Y.M. For instance?

O.M. Well, take a "flash of wit"--repartee. Flash is the right word. It is out instantly. There
is no time to arrange the words. There is no thinking, no reflecting. Where there is a wit-mechanism
it is automatic in its action and needs no help. Where the wit-mechanism is lacking, no amount
of study and reflection can manufacture the product.

Y.M. You really think a man originates nothing, creates nothing.

The Thinking-Process

O.M. I do. Men perceive, and their brain-machines automatically combine the things perceived.
That is all.

Y.M. The steam-engine?

O.M. It takes fifty men a hundred years to invent it. One meaning of invent is discover. I
use the word in that sense. Little by little they discover and apply the multitude of details
that go to make the perfect engine. Watt noticed that confined steam was strong enough to lift
the lid of the teapot. He didn't create the idea, he merely discovered the fact; the cat had
noticed it a hundred times. From the teapot he evolved the cylinder--from the displaced lid
he evolved the piston-rod. To attach something to the piston-rod to be moved by it, was a simple
matter--crank and wheel. And so there was a working engine. (1)

One by one, improvements were discovered by men who used their eyes, not their creating powers--for
they hadn't any--and now, after a hundred years the patient contributions of fifty or a hundred
observers stand compacted in the wonderful machine which drives the ocean liner.

Y.M. A Shakespearean play?

O.M. The process is the same. The first actor was a savage. He reproduced in his theatrical
war-dances, scalp-dances, and so on, incidents which he had seen in real life. A more advanced
civilization produced more incidents, more episodes; the actor and the story-teller borrowed
them. And so the drama grew, little by little, stage by stage. It is made up of the facts of
life, not creations. It took centuries to develop the Greek drama. It borrowed from preceding
ages; it lent to the ages that came after. Men observe and combine, that is all. So does a rat.

Y.M. How?

O.M. He observes a smell, he infers a cheese, he seeks and finds. The astronomer observes this
and that; adds his this and that to the this-and-thats of a hundred predecessors, infers an
invisible planet, seeks it and finds it. The rat gets into a trap; gets out with trouble; infers
that cheese in traps lacks value, and meddles with that trap no more. The astronomer is very
proud of his achievement, the rat is proud of his. Yet both are machines; they have done machine
work, they have originated nothing, they have no right to be vain; the whole credit belongs
to their Maker. They are entitled to no honors, no praises, no monuments when they die, no
remembrance. One is a complex and elaborate machine, the other a simple and limited machine,
but they are alike in principle, function, and process, and neither of them works otherwise
than automatically, and neither of them may righteously claim a PERSONAL superiority or a personal
dignity above the other.

Y.M. In earned personal dignity, then, and in personal merit for what he does, it follows of
necessity that he is on the same level as a rat?

O.M. His brother the rat; yes, that is how it seems to me. Neither of them being entitled to
any personal merit for what he does, it follows of necessity that neither of them has a right
to arrogate to himself (personally created) superiorities over his brother.

Y.M. Are you determined to go on believing in these insanities? Would you go on believing in
them in the face of able arguments backed by collated facts and instances?

O.M. I have been a humble, earnest, and sincere Truth-Seeker.

Y.M. Very well?

O.M. The humble, earnest, and sincere Truth-Seeker is always convertible by such means.

Y.M. I am thankful to God to hear you say this, for now I know that your conversion--

O.M. Wait. You misunderstand. I said I have BEEN a Truth-Seeker.

Y.M. Well?

O.M. I am not that now. Have your forgotten? I told you that there are none but temporary Truth-Seekers;
that a permanent one is a human impossibility; that as soon as the Seeker finds what he is
thoroughly convinced is the Truth, he seeks no further, but gives the rest of his days to hunting
junk to patch it and caulk it and prop it with, and make it weather-proof and keep it from
caving in on him. Hence the Presbyterian remains a Presbyterian, the Mohammedan a Mohammedan,
the Spiritualist a Spiritualist, the Democrat a Democrat, the Republican a Republican, the
Monarchist a Monarchist; and if a humble, earnest, and sincere Seeker after Truth should find
it in the proposition that the moon is made of green cheese nothing could ever budge him from
that position; for he is nothing but an automatic machine, and must obey the laws of his construction.

Y.M. After so--

O.M. Having found the Truth; perceiving that beyond question man has but one moving impulse--the
contenting of his own spirit--and is merely a machine and entitled to no personal merit for
anything he does, it is not humanly possible for me to seek further. The rest of my days will
be spent in patching and painting and puttying and caulking my priceless possession and in
looking the other way when an imploring argument or a damaging fact approaches.

     1.  The Marquess of Worcester had done all of this more than a
century earlier.

VI

Instinct and Thought

Young Man. It is odious. Those drunken theories of yours, advanced a while ago--concerning
the rat and all that--strip Man bare of all his dignities, grandeurs, sublimities.

Old Man. He hasn't any to strip--they are shams, stolen clothes. He claims credits which belong
solely to his Maker.

Y.M. But you have no right to put him on a level with a rat.

O.M. I don't--morally. That would not be fair to the rat. The rat is well above him, there.

Y.M. Are you joking?

O.M. No, I am not.

Y.M. Then what do you mean?

O.M. That comes under the head of the Moral Sense. It is a large question. Let us finish with
what we are about now, before we take it up.

Y.M. Very well. You have seemed to concede that you place Man and the rat on A level. What
is it? The intellectual?

O.M. In form--not a degree.

Y.M. Explain.

O.M. I think that the rat's mind and the man's mind are the same machine, but of unequal capacities--like
yours and Edison's; like the African pygmy's and Homer's; like the Bushman's and Bismarck's.

Y.M. How are you going to make that out, when the lower animals have no mental quality but
instinct, while man possesses reason?

O.M. What is instinct?

Y.M. It is merely unthinking and mechanical exercise of inherited habit.

O.M. What originated the habit?

Y.M. The first animal started it, its descendants have inherited it.

O.M. How did the first one come to start it?

Y.M. I don't know; but it didn't THINK it out.

O.M. How do you know it didn't?

Y.M. Well--I have a right to suppose it didn't, anyway.

O.M. I don't believe you have. What is thought?

Y.M. I know what you call it: the mechanical and automatic putting together of impressions
received from outside, and drawing an inference from them.

O.M. Very good. Now my idea of the meaningless term "instinct" is, that it is merely PETRIFIED
THOUGHT; solidified and made inanimate by habit; thought which was once alive and awake, but
it become unconscious--walks in its sleep, so to speak.

Y.M. Illustrate it.

O.M. Take a herd of cows, feeding in a pasture. Their heads are all turned in one direction.
They do that instinctively; they gain nothing by it, they have no reason for it, they don't
know why they do it. It is an inherited habit which was originally thought--that is to say,
observation of an exterior fact, and a valuable inference drawn from that observation and confirmed
by experience. The original wild ox noticed that with the wind in his favor he could smell
his enemy in time to escape; then he inferred that it was worth while to keep his nose to the
wind. That is the process which man calls reasoning. Man's thought-machine works just like
the other animals', but it is a better one and more Edisonian. Man, in the ox's place, would
go further, reason wider: he would face part of the herd the other way and protect both front
and rear.

Y.M. Did you stay the term instinct is meaningless?

O.M. I think it is a bastard word. I think it confuses us; for as a rule it applies itself
to habits and impulses which had a far-off origin in thought, and now and then breaks the rule
and applies itself to habits which can hardly claim a thought-origin.

Y.M. Give an instance.

O.M. Well, in putting on trousers a man always inserts the same old leg first--never the other
one. There is no advantage in that, and no sense in it. All men do it, yet no man thought it
out and adopted it of set purpose, I imagine. But it is a habit which is transmitted, no doubt,
and will continue to be transmitted.

Y.M. Can you prove that the habit exists?

O.M. You can prove it, if you doubt. If you will take a man to a clothing-store and watch him
try on a dozen pairs of trousers, you will see.

Y.M. The cow illustration is not--

O.M. Sufficient to show that a dumb animal's mental machine is just the same as a man's and
its reasoning processes the same? I will illustrate further. If you should hand Mr. Edison
a box which you caused to fly open by some concealed device he would infer a spring, and would
hunt for it and find it. Now an uncle of mine had an old horse who used to get into the closed
lot where the corn-crib was and dishonestly take the corn. I got the punishment myself, as
it was supposed that I had heedlessly failed to insert the wooden pin which kept the gate closed.
These persistent punishments fatigued me; they also caused me to infer the existence of a culprit,
somewhere; so I hid myself and watched the gate. Presently the horse came and pulled the pin
out with his teeth and went in. Nobody taught him that; he had observed--then thought it out
for himself. His process did not differ from Edison's; he put this and that together and drew
an inference--and the peg, too; but I made him sweat for it.

Y.M. It has something of the seeming of thought about it. Still it is not very elaborate. Enlarge.

O.M. Suppose Mr. Edison has been enjoying some one's hospitalities. He comes again by and by,
and the house is vacant. He infers that his host has moved. A while afterward, in another town,
he sees the man enter a house; he infers that that is the new home, and follows to inquire.
Here, now, is the experience of a gull, as related by a naturalist. The scene is a Scotch fishing
village where the gulls were kindly treated. This particular gull visited a cottage; was fed;
came next day and was fed again; came into the house, next time, and ate with the family; kept
on doing this almost daily, thereafter. But, once the gull was away on a journey for a few
days, and when it returned the house was vacant. Its friends had removed to a village three
miles distant. Several months later it saw the head of the family on the street there, followed
him home, entered the house without excuse or apology, and became a daily guest again. Gulls
do not rank high mentally, but this one had memory and the reasoning faculty, you see, and
applied them Edisonially. 

Only the most distinguished persons of interest from every corner
of Europe were extended invitations to this, the most illustrious
of events.

Guest would be invited to stay in fully furnished accommodations,
and would amuse themselves with a variety of activities, including
social balls and sporting tournaments.

Once everyone had arrived, Giovanni Galeazzo would escort the newlyweds
to his palace from the church.

Hundreds of tables filled the great hall, set for the most dignified guests, not least of which
was Francesco Petrarca (other tables for lesser guests were situated in neighboring rooms).

Seneschals, dressed to impress for the occasion, brought gold and silver platters heaped in food. Wine
was brought around the hall on horseback, and served in impressive gold, silver, or crystal
cups. It may seem unusual in this day and age to imagine a servant cavorting around the dinner
table on the back of a horse, but if nothing else, it illustrates just how large these halls
must have been. This also explains why the mansions of nobles rarely have staircases as we
know them, as it would be quite difficult to maneuver a horse up a flight of stairs today.
Eighteen courses would make up the dinner, and between the dishes the groom would collect or
present gifts, so that by the time the plates had been cleared, each one of Lionel's guests had
something precious in their hands, not including the extravagant clothing distributed to the
actors and other performers, made special for this very event.
This is a formal account of the dinner, paraphrased to conserve space. The first course was glazed
pork, smoke still steaming from their snouts; the second consisted of rabbit and pike, also
glazed; third, trout and veal (assume, unless otherwise noted, that
all meats are similarly gilded); fourth, fish a small game birds like
quail, or partridge; fifth, ducks and more fish; sixth, sturgeon,
beef, and capons in a garlic sauce; seventh, a second round of veal,
and capons in a lemon sauce; eighth, savory beef pies, followed by
sugar and cheeses; ninth, more meats - a fowl of some sort, and fish
in an unidentified jelly; tenth, unspecified meats, and lamprey; eleventh,
roasted goat, plus more bird-meat and fish; twelfth, more rabbit and
venison, and fish made with sugar and vinegar juice; thirteenth, beef
and deer with a sweet lemon juice; fourteenth, capons, fowls, and
tench, presented with foil colored red and green; fifteenth, small
birds, such a pigeons, plus beans and carp; sixteenth; more rabbit,
plus peacocks and lemon-roasted eel; seventeenth, a course of cheese
and soured milk.

And finally, an eighteenth course made up of the most expensive and
hard to find fruits from around the world.

As stated earlier, in between each of these course the duke was presented with an extravagant gift,
the first being a pair of leopards, come complete with shiny buckles and soft velvet collars.
 As a thinker and planner the ant is the equal of any savage race of men; as a self-educated
specialist in several arts she is the superior of any savage race of men; and in one or two
high mental qualities she is above the reach of any man, savage or civilized!

Y.M. Oh, come! you are abolishing the intellectual frontier which separates man and beast.

O.M. I beg your pardon. One cannot abolish what does not exist.

Y.M. You are not in earnest, I hope. You cannot mean to seriously say there is no such frontier.

O.M. I do say it seriously. The instances of the horse, the gull, the mother bird, and the
elephant show that those creatures put their this's and thats together just as Edison would
have done it and drew the same inferences that he would have drawn. What are his words? Oh!
he says the king arrives in triumph; that he is attired in state; that he has just finished killing,
with his own hand, a thousand chained Israelitish captives!

For these exploits the ragamuffin is praising him to the skies. It elevates the dumb beasts
to--to--

O.M. Let us drop that lying phrase, and call them the Unrevealed Creatures; so far as we can
know, there is no such thing as a dumb beast.

Y.M. On what grounds do you make that assertion?

O.M. On quite simple ones. "Dumb" beast suggests an animal that has no thought-machinery, no
understanding, no speech, no way of communicating what is in its mind. We know that a hen HAS
speech. We cannot understand everything she says, but we easily learn two or three of her phrases.
We know when she is saying, "I have laid an egg"; we know when she is saying to the chicks,
"Run here, dears, I've found a worm"; we know what she is saying when she voices a warning:
"Quick! hurry! gather yourselves under mamma, there's a hawk coming!" He's the chosen chairman
to a select committee in the House. He murmurs agricultural distresses in his sleep; and when
I asked him occasionally to come down here to see me, he woke from a reverie, and exclaimed-- "--Never,
Mr. Speaker, as a landed proprietor; never will I consent to my own ruin."
I wish you could see how fast my boy, my own, my beautiful companion, can run, and how sensibly
he can talk. I said to Mr. Mandeville the other day, "What a fine figure he has for his age!" 
"Figure!
age! in the House of Commons he shall make a figure to every age." said his father the other
day. In writing to you, I know you will not be happy if I do not say a great deal about myself.
I would like to tell you, that the exercise aid air has made me feel already much better! the trip,
talking to my two guests, and, above all, from the constant companionship of my dear son, who
turned three on his last birthday. I think that at the age of twenty-one, I am the least childish
of the two. Please remember me to all in town who have not quite forgotten me.

Ask Lady ------ to send Elizabeth a subscription ticket for Almack's, and--oh, talking of Almack's,
I believe my boy's eyes are even more beautiful and blue than Lady
C-----'s. 
Adieu, my dear Julia, Ever, &c. E. M. 
Lady Emily Mandeville
was the daughter of the Duke of Lindvale.

Lady Mandeville married, at the age of sixteen, a wealthy man of some parliamentary reputation.

Compared with the ordinary standard of men he was neither in person nor in character much beneath
or above. He was one of Nature's Macadamised achievements. His great fault was his equality;
and you longed for a hill though it were to climb, or a stone though it were in your way. 
Even
if that something be what others would hate, Love attaches itself to something prominent. One can
hardly feel extremes for mediocrity. Her character had not changed much in the few years Lady
Emily had been married. Not quick to anger but quick in feeling; she was happy because her
heart was young and hadn't seen loss rather than having felt great
joy; as an enthusiast's dream of heave, pure and beautiful, while
bearing within the latent and powerful passion and tenderness of earth:
she mixed with all a simplicity and innocence which the extreme earliness
of her marriage, and the ascetic temper of her husband, had tendered
less to diminish than increase.

She characteristics of genius, the warmth of a vivid emotion, an admiration for the grand and
affection for the good, and the dangerous hatred of for whatever is worthless and mean, the
very indulgence of which is an offence against the habits of the
world.

However, her eccentric tastes were very feminine and chaste: they
were rather calculated to conceal than to publish the deeper recesses
of her nature; and it was beneath that polished surface of manner
common to those with whom she mixed, that she hid the treasures of
a mine which no human eye had beheld.

Her naturally delicate health suffered from the dissipation of London.

By the advice of her doctors she had spent the summer at E------.

Lady Margaret Leslie, and Mrs. Dalton had agreed to accompany her
to convelecse in the country; Lady Leslie was old enough to be tired
with the caprices of society abd Mrs. Dalton had just lost her husband,
so by the standards of the day was not allowed to partake of its amusements.

Neither was very suited to Emily, but almost any one is agreeable
to us when they are young: the years which harden our habits, and
the wisdom of age which refines our taste, that it becomes difficult
to please, and easy to dissapoint us.

On the third day after Emily's arrival at , she was sitting after breakfast with Lady Margaret and
Mrs. Dalton.

"Pray," said the former, "did you ever meet my relation, Mr. Falkland?
he is in your immediate neighbourhood."

"Never; though I have a great curiosity: that fine old ruin beyond the village belongs to him,
I believe."
Emily was sitting after breakfast with Lady Margaret and Mrs. Dalton on the third day after their
arrival at E------. "Pray, did you ever meet my relation, Mr. Falkland? he is in your immediate neighbourhood.",
said Lady Margaret. "Never; though I have a great curiosity: that fine old ruin beyond the village
belongs to him, I believe."
Similar to people of ton who are nothing individually while everything together with other people,
Mrs. Dalton repeated: "It does. You ought to know him: you would like him so!" "Like him! like him?
impossible!". Lady Margaret responded indignantly: "Why? He has every requisite to please--youth,
talent, fascination of manner, and great knowledge of the world." "Well, I cannot say I discovered
his perfections", said Mrs. Dalton.

 Was that instinct--thought petrified by ages of inherited habit?

Y.M. No, I don't believe it was. I believe it was a newly reasoned scheme to meet a new emergency.

O.M. Very well. You have conceded the reasoning power in two instances. I come now to a mental
detail wherein the ant is a long way the superior of any human being. Sir John Lubbock proved
by many experiments that an ant knows a stranger ant of her own species in a moment, even when
the stranger is disguised--with paint. Also he proved that an ant knows every individual in
her hive of five hundred thousand souls. Much less in value than our perfect Holy Scriptures which
teachs us how to interact with God, we must stil consider as inspiration, the true power of
the arts, for it is always providing us with unfathomable works beyond the possiblities of human
reason. The smitten Romeo cries, "Can the most brilliant mind make a Juliet? That the most
brillaint among us could not have made a Juliet with in art, is an absolute.
 The ants were all of the same species,
therefore the friends had to be recognized by form and feature--friends who formed part of
a hive of five hundred thousand! He can escape punishment here.

He may even win some sort of reputation as someone who can always
win the attention of women, but only receive the greatest punishment
of the judge and avenger of all.

One word more before the end of these remarks, what I liked left out of these roles, but the truth
requires of them.
Some men seem to think that sin and the responsibility is very slight if it is committed with
a woman who trades in his sin. It is certainly not as cowardly as the ruin of a woman pure and innocent,
but who can say that you may not have met that woman in the turning point in his life, but
by the time she might have been sorry? and at least you have added to the weight of his sin.
Once that had been pure, only God knows his history but the many who have taken advantage of their
misery and helped her to chain her life of sin will be held blameless for Him? Great, afraid
their fault, but only God knows how long you can be free. Far greater is their fault that their
selfish enjoyment, feel free to dive deeper into the ruin of a soul
for whom Christ died.

If men treated with honor to all women - all, not just relatives
and friends - not those who earn their livelihood by sin.

This state of affairs may be futile to expect, while the cowards
among men, but not too much to expect of honest men and Christians
should treat all women with such respect, that as far as their capabilities,
the stigma of stinginess and cowardice should not rest on men of this
land.

Treat them with respect, not only in dealing with them, but in his conversation about them,
and their thoughts about them.

But turn to a more pleasant subject, the procession of honor as a man and maiden. Certain things
must be taken into account in making their choice. First, the object of their choice should
be the one whom you can love fully and completely trust. Second, it must be one that feels
it would be helpful in life. Thirdly, she must be of the same religion as yourself (otherwise,
after the difficulties in life insurance schemes) and a woman really
religious.

And fourth, that she must not only, or even necessarily, a bright and beautiful companion,
but it must have qualities necessary for a good wife and mother -
one that can manage a household, as well as help to pass a pleasant
hour or so .

Their courtship should be completely open and above the table. The parental consent must be obtained
first, and remember that you are obliged to respect their wishes. Beware also that never in
any way compromised by his conduct. Say no more, because I assumed from the outset that their
courtship is honorable, I love you the girl of your choice, and as
you would with your shield of all injuries of others, so she will
be safe under his protection.

 I think it is not right to jest about such things.

O.M. I am not jesting, I am merely reflecting a plain and simple truth--and without uncharitableness. A
broad-shouldered student with a mustache cut out the letters with a pocket knife. Other students stood
or sat near him jostlinhim during his work. A jog at his elbow. The large student turned to
him with a frown. He was dressed in gray loose clothes and had boots
which were Tan.

The name Stephen was called.

He hurried down the stairs of the theater to be as far from the vision that he could be, and looking
closely at the initials of his father, hid his reddened face.

But the word and vision tapered before his eyes, returning to the quadrangle and towards the college
gate. He was shocked to find in the outside world a trace of what he had hitherto considered
a brutal and personal illness in his own mind. His monstrous reveries crowded into his memory.
They too had sprung up in front of him, suddenly and furiously, from
simply words.

He had once given in to them and allowed them to scan and belittle his intelligence, always
wondering where they came from, from what den of monstrous pictures,
and always weak and humble towards others, restless and sickened himself
even after they had swept him. 
- Yes, Helas!

And there's the food of course! cried Mr Dedalus. You have often heard of the races, have not
you, Stephen. Many times, we went down there because our names had been marked, a crowd of us,
Harry Peard and little Jack Mountain and Bob Dryas and Maurice Moriarty, Frenchie, and Tom O'Grady
and Mick Lacy who I told you this morning and Joey Corbet and poor little Johnny Keevers the good
heart of Tantiles.
The trees leaves along the Mardyke were astir and whisperered in the sunlight. A cricket team
passed, agile young men with flannels and blazers, one of them with a long green wicket-bag.
In a bystreet a German group of five quiet players in uniform disappeared
and with battered brass instruments was playing to an audience of
boys and errant boys, quietly.

A maid in a white cap and apron was watering a box of plants on a
sill which shone like a slab of limestone in the warm light.

From another window open to air, the sound of a piano, scale after
scale rising into the treble, was heard.

Stephen walked beside his father listening to stories he had heard before, hearing again the names
of the guests dispersed, and the dead who were the companions of the youth of his father. And
a mild illness sighed in his heart.

He recalled his equivocal position in Belvedere, a free kid, a authority afraid of his own leadership,
proud and suspicious and sensitive , battling against the misery of his life and against the chaos
of his mind.

The letters cut out of stained wood desk staring at him, mocking
his bodily weakness and futile enthusiasms and making himself his
own horror of crazy dirty orgies The saliva in his throat grew dark
and from lack of swallowing and mild disease it mounted to his brain
so that for a moment he closed his eyes and walked into the darkness.

He could still hear the voice of his father -

- When you run for yourself, Stephen - I dare say you have one of
these days - remember, whatever you do, to mix with gentlemen. i did
it when I was a young man, I tell you I enjoyed myself.

I mixed with fine brave ones. Each of us can do something. A man had a beautiful voice, another
man was a good actor, another could sing a good comic song, another
one was a rower or a good racket player good, the other could tell
a good story and so on.

We kept the ball rolling anyway and we enjoyed ourselves and saw a bit of life and we were
not the worst either.

But we were all colleagues, Stephen - at least I hope we were - and bloody good honest Irishmen
too. This is the kind of guy I want to associate with, fellows of the right heart.
 

the fire was burned while musing,and as a result an irrepressible conflict came.The issue was settled
that no man should be held another man in involuntary servitude in
this common and inseparable country.

As a result a quarter of a century has elapsed after settlement of
a problem which involved the destiny of two races, and of our whole
country.and of our whole country.the Nation is question and before
the churches is a corollary of slavery. is was in the second section
of first chapter.

Question one: How shall liberty be proclaimed to the captive and the
enslaved become free?

Second question:how can the two races as distinct? separate as are the white and black races
of the South now equal before the law live side by side under the same government and live
in Christian truth and peace This is the problem and like the first it is irrepressible.
it is a new generation of white people has in part come forward to
participate in the duties of citizenship.since all men became men
in the law of the land.To them the question is practically new.

The situation is: The Negroes are now eight millions who were four
millions twenty years ago .

The fourteen per cent increase of the blacks above the increase of the whites in the period of
twenty years.In his work on the African in the United States Professor Gilliam having in hand
the figures of our Census Bureau forecasts with the demonstration of mathematics our population
one century hence.


O.M. There is no such thing as MATERIAL covetousness. You disclose equal what you are.

Tomes. And that is----?
Grey. Forgive me,--an affliction between an Unemotional and a Puritan:--morally,
I average.

Tomes. Don't express regret. You probably will say some worsened
things of me, and few surpass. But telling me what I am does not confute
what I say. "No? Really?" Maurice bemused. "Seriously, Ronald, try a different path!"

"I am not kidding, Maurice. You should have figured this out already."

"Why?
Noboy said anything before this!" We tried to have dinner, a condensed all these hiccups. But I could not eat anything.
M. de Francueil might be funny that day, and Rousseau fled at the
table without saying a word - sad, maybe, and has found a contradiction
in his argument is the most persecuted, the man most hated and most
maligned.

"

The simplicity of the narrative justifies the quotation here, as illustrative of the taste and manners
that prevailed a hundred years ago.
The intense emotions provoked by the "Nouvelle Heloise" is little
more foreign to our ideas and experience that tears in the triangular
room, dinner, silent through more than feeling that came after.

M. Dupin Francueil, they lived in large, but the generous extravagance, and his widow said, "Will
ruin the most amiable in the world."
It 'died, leaving a lot of confusion estates, which were forced his widow and son "to accept poverty
and seventy-five thousand pounds of annual income. - The amount that a revolution in the day,
significantly reduced until the outbreak, Madame Dupin lived in peace and prosperity, but not
large scale of days before - in fact the main purpose of care and
education of his son, Maurice, in which capacity it has secured the
services of young abbot, who later became a citizen Descartes care,
and continuity of service of the family towards the end of a moderately
long life.

This character plays an important role too in his memoirs, to be passed without further notice.
He continued to be the teacher and faithful companion of Mauritius until the requirements of
the military withdrawal of its control.
It was also the businessman Mrs. Dupin, and a day later, Professor George itself, which, with
childish petulance, gave him the nickname of a great man, therefore, we are told she is omnicompetent
and air of importance. "My grandmother, says," had no premonition that, by giving your child's
education, she was sure the tyrant, El Salvador and friend of his remaining life as a whole. "We
are happy to give the full picture here in the guardian of George, but if you have to stop drawing
pictures of this admirable work, our review would become a volume.
We can borrow a line or two, and proceed to consideration of other issues.
"It was beautiful, but I'm sure nobody, not even in his heyday, would have looked without laughing,
was so clearly written in the pedantic word every line of his face
and every movement of his person.

For completeness, it should have been ignorant, greedy, and cowardly.

But far, was very learned, temperate, brave and crazy. He had all the qualities of the soul,
along with an unbearable alienation, and self-satisfaction, which amounted almost to delirium.
But what dedication, what zeal, what a tender and generous soul! "
In the intervals of business required, studied medicine and surgery
in the second, where he attained great skill.

In the following several years of his life in the country, he made
these results very useful for people in the village.

No stress of weather or time of unreasonableness could remember attending
the sick, when summoned, but is obliged, as George said, of being
ridiculous and sublime in all things he used to beat his patients
when they were brave enough to offer him money for their healing,
and even made weapons missile poultry and game, as they led him in
recognition of his services, assail shots and harder words until they
fled, amused or angry.

Maurice, his first student was a beautiful child and indolent, and showed the resilience of
nature just his youth, when the need for a career was forced into
the ranks of the great army.

The first threats to the revolution in Madame Dupin unalarmed an observer.

As a follower of Voltaire and Rousseau, she could not but hate the
abuse of the court; she also shares the alienation of the personality
of the aristocracy of the German woman called Marie-Antoinette.



O.M. Being spiritual, it cannot be affected by physical influences? 

In reality the justifiable acts of independent sovereignties consulting
a distinct interest should be readily denominated as injuries by us.

The characteristic feature of commercial America, the spirit of venturing,
has been constantly improving making use of every opportunity.

This uncontrolled spirit would not be able to pay much respect to
the trade regulations of certain States which secure benefits to the
citizens.

On one side the infractions of these regulations would lead to outrages
and on the other to reprisals and wars.

The tributary States would impatiently submit the opportunities of making others tributary by commercial
regulations.

An example can be seen in the relative situation of New York, Connecticut,
and New Jersey.

Duties on imports has to be laid by New York for the necessity of
revenue, a great part of which must be paid by the people living in
the other two States as consumers for what we import.

New York cannot forego this advantage and her citizens would disagree
any duty paid by them should go in favor of the neighbors.

Yet can New York continue to tax Connecticut and New Jersey for her exclusive benefit? As a metropolis,
can we continue to enjoy the money got from our neighbors in spite
of their hatred?

Should we continue it with pressure from both the neighbors?

There can only be a negative answer to these.  Another cause for dispute between States or
federations is the public debt of the Union. There should be a rule of apportionment satisfactory
to all. But there isn’t any which can be easily proposed which will be free from real objections
completely. The politicians will as usual exaggerate with their adverse interests. There are differences
of views among the States on the principles of the way in which the public debt can be discharged. Due
to lack of importance of national credit, some of the states feel indifference to the payment
of domestic debt at any rate. Difficulties of distribution would only be magnified by this. Some
equitable and effective provision would be requested by other states in which a large number
of the citizens are creditors to the public more than the proportion of the State in the total
amount of the national debt. The resentments of the latter would only be the results of the impediments
of the former. Real differences of opinions and deference would postpone the settlement of
a rule. There would be hollering among the citizens of the States interested; there would be influence
for the satisfaction of their demands by foreign powers. This would result in a hazard to peace
to the double possibility of outside attack and inside conflict.
 

While at Dauphin Island the system of company cooking was abandoned, distributing to each man his proportion
of the rations, for disposal at will, was adopted. Company cooks, consequently, were no longer
required.

Broke camp, on the 19th, embarked at Fort Gaines on a gunboat (tin clad) and it lay all night in Navy
Cove near Fort Morgan.

Next day the fleet crossed the Fish River and ascended to Dalney's Mill Landing, on the west side,
where the force disembarked and went into camp.

The Second Brigade about a mile from the river on the south side
of a small but rapid creek was ready.

At this place breastworks were commenced to the west, but soon discontinued. Lieutenant Holl and wagoner
Henricks rejoined on the 21st, the former having been relieved by the return of the regimental
quartermaster.
On the 25th the forward march of the troops for eight miles was made.

The next day the Second Brigade was in front and the Sixth Minnesota
was detailed for skirmishing, Company E being employed to cover the
left flank of the brigade while marching.

The enemy's skirmishers hovered in front all the time and an incessant fusillade was kept up.
By noon the creek on which Cyrus Sibley's house and mills were was reached and crossed. At about
a mile beyond the company was halted and remained with some other companies the whole night. The
enemy's pickets and ours were often in view of each other and exchanged many shots. Next morning,
the 27th, the rest of the regiment moved up and camped there and
breastworks were thrown up and a battery was stationed on the right
flank.

On the 28th the regiment fell back to the south side of the creek, where the camp of the Second
Division was entrenched, immediately opposite Sibley's house.

Here there was very little to do or see, but time enough to listen
to the almost continuous cannonading at the Spanish Fort, which however
soon ceased to be an object of remark except when, occasionally, the
rush of the enormous shells from the rebel gunboats drew every one's
attention.

 

"The current here is taking us inside the point", he says. The company's man says "Sir, if I
didn't knw whats' what, do you think I'd lear it off a guys who is
so green? Of course not!" he says. You REALIZE that the Master Passion--the contentment
of the spirit--concerns itself with many things besides so-called material advantage, material
prosperity, cash, and all that? 

Through the science of war, modern times have changed the relations
and duties of men on the battle-field from what they were in the old
days of knighthood.

Yet, there is still room for displays of stainless valor and manful virtues. Honor as well as
courage are parts of our religion; and the cowards of men's careless honors of our armies of
liberty should fall under heavier shame than ever on the shoulders of the disgraced soldiers
of former times.Our sense of honor is finer than the common sense of the world! There is no
cost and reckons no sacrifices greater. "Then the king wept and dried his eyes and said 'Your
courage had neere a hand destroy it, for I call it folly knights to abide when overmatched!"
"No!" said Sir Lancelot and the other, "For once you are shamed,
never may you be recovered."

The examples of Bayard,--sans peur et sans reproche,-- of Sidney,
the heroes of old and recent days, are for our imitations.

We, bound to be no less worthy of praise and rememberance than they!

They did nothing too high for us to imitate.

WIthin their glorious company we may hope that some of our names may yet be enrolled, to again
stand as the inspiring exemplars and the models for future times. If our defeat has brought
us shame, it will have brought us also firmer resolves!

No man shall be said to know himself, or to have assurance of his forces of principles and
his character, till he has been tested by the fire of trial at the crucible of defeat! The same
is true of nations! The tests of defeat is the test of its national
worths!

Defeat shows wheter it deserves success. We may well be grateful and glad for our defeats of
the 21st of July. If we wrest from it the secrets of our weaknesses and are thrown back by it
to the true sorces of strentgh, if we have done its work thoroughly, we will profit sufficiently
by our advantages it has afforded to us!

We may be well content that so slight a harm has brought us so great
a good, but if not, then let us be ready for another deafeat, over
and over again, till our souls shall be tempered and our forces disciplined
for the worthy attainment of victory.

For in our victory we shall in good time, have it. There is no need to fear or be doubtful of
the issue. As soon as we deserve it, victory will be ours; and were
we win it before, it will be, but an empty and barren triumph.

All history is but the prophecy of our final success,-- and Milton
has put the prophecy into words.

"Go on, O Nations, never to be disunited! Be the praises and the heroics of song of all our
prosterities!

Merit this, but seek only virtues, not to extend your limits, (for what needs to win a fading triumphant
laurel out of the tears of a wretched man?) but to settle the pure worship of God, in his church
and justice to the state!Then shall the hardest difficulties smooth out themselves before you.
Envy shall sink to Hell, craft and malice be confounded, whether it be home-bred mischief
or outlandish cunning! Other nations will then covet to serve thee, for lordship and victory
are but the pages of justice and virtue!
******

Ode To Happiness!
I.
Spirits, which rarely come, and only to contrast my saddness. Like rainbow-feathered birds which
bloom upon a moment on some autumn brough. With the spurn of their farewells, shed its last
leaves,-- thou once did dwell with me year long, and make intense to boy-hood's wisely-empty
days. The fleet, but all-sufficing grace of trustful inexperiences.

Yet the soul transfigured sense, and thrilled, like love's first
caress.

Life grants mere unexpectedness
II

.
 . S. DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE  FARMERS' BULLETIN No. 1408
The HOUSE FLY AND HOW TO SUPPRESS IT
Keeping files effect cleanliness and sanitary conditions. Without adequate disposal of substances
also harmful. They are very dangerous, it will badly affect health and lead to desease. 
We
should know how to breed and where to breed.

It is important the application of such knowledge in combating them.

In addition to giving direction to ridding the house of files, this
bulletin gives advise to the use of screens, fly papers, poisons and
flytraps.

It looks on the methods of eliminating breeding places snd preventing
the breeding files.

 

She would be exaggerate her sickness: call herself an old, useless, bed-ridden woman. He was not deceived
by her simple tricks. He would look at her sadly in dumb reproach, and after a moment he would get
up, saying that he was tired, and go to the bed.
 

The Head-porter, Parsons, is Highly revered.

Oriental students won't enter his lodge without first removing their
shoes, and freshmen raise their squares to him.

 

someone wants to know about the collection of writings by Henry Howe.

The writings are about the city of cleveland. people have said alot of bad things about this
city. the people must be thankful that the wide eyed tourist did not leave without knowing anything.
and the learning impaired has told us of the cities buildings. Try
buffalo instea

d 

Some one is with him - a lady. Yes, just as she thought, Clara Rutland.

Here they come.

Her so - so - almost ugly, and it so - so - so like Jerome. That's the only way to express themselves.
Jerome is more than simply beautiful, much more than gracefully,
rather than a man among men - he is a non-so in a nut shell!

But here he is talking about the distance, and each step bringing him closer. He will not be
surprised? He will not be happy? Is he going to give her hand and smile that smile impenetrable,
and -?
How is that? Jerome has come and gone. He looked at her - he raised his eyes once in passing.

Just before this poky little vehicle, where vortex expected return of Miss Josey, was a royal
crew, and shine all silver plate, with a capacity of well-dressed
groom before champing, restless, lively animals, as eager be off and
gone somewhere that most stirred the human heart in a human breast.

Assisted in the polls Nobby Miss Jerome Rutland, and then springing
up in himself, caught the rein of the groom's hands.

For a terrible moment (the vortex) the horse was on his feet directly behind, and then hearing
the voice of Jerome, who said in the quietest of tones, "Go, rhesus, gave a plunge and ran
wild before , leaving swirl with a feeling stifled as she was buried alive under twenty feet of volcanic
ash.
But what I wanted - her death, without recognition? Jerome might be a slacker mood, fantasy unstable
and superior power in its most common rules, but he may not know the face.
 We know the general direction of Bremen from
the camp and it was the largest town near it. It was easy to locate it from the reflection
of its lights against the sky. On August 25th it was raining heavily and it was cold also.
We were hiding on the bank of weser.

As the river was two hundere yards broad we need a boat to cross
the river. we were happy to meet a cow.

We made a pair of socks out of a shirt.

We had turnips, carrots and milk as our food.

On august 26th we found a boat to cross the river.

As there were a lot of hedges grown so heavily we have to go around
them.

It ook a lot time . Meal for the day wer turnip,peas and oat

s
 

A Riddel ROBERT, ESQ.

DE GLENRIDDEL
[These memoranda shed much light on the early days of Burns, and the
history of his mind and compositions.

Robert Riddel, of Friars-Carse, who these fragments were sent, was
a good man and a distinguished antiquary.]  
My dear sir,  
The
stir some old papers I lighted on a MS. of my early years, which had
determined to write, as I was placed by fortune from a class of men
whom my ideas would have been foolish.

I had assumed that the book should have stood by my side, with the fond hope that one time or
another, even after I was no more, my thoughts fall into the hands
of someone capable of appreciating its value.

It starts as follows: -  
"COMMENTS, SUGGESTIONS, songs, pieces
of poetry, etc, by Robert Burness: a man who had little art in making
money, let alone to keep him, but it was nevertheless a man of some
sense, honesty and a boundless goodwill to all creatures, rational
and irrational .-- He was very bit in debt with school education,
and bred in a plow-tail, their actions must be strongly stained with
the way the rough, rustic life, but I think they are really theirs,
can be an entertainment for a curious observer of human nature to
see how a farmer thinks and feels, under the pressure of love, ambition,
anxiety, pain, with similar concerns and passions, which, however
diversified by the ways and means of life, operating more or less
the same, I think, on all species.

"

"There are a number in the world who do not want the sense of making
a figure, but rather an opinion of their own capabilities to bring
them to record their observations, and with the same emphasis that
make it appear in print." - Shenstone.

* * * * *
April 1783.
Despite everything that was said against love, respect for the folly and weakness gives a mind young
and inexperienced, still largely think deserves the highest praise that have been passed on it.
If there is anything on earth deserves the name of ecstasy or transport, which is the feeling
of eighteen green in the company of the lady of his heart, when she pays a yield equal affection.
* * * * *
August.
There is undoubtedly some connection between love and music, and poetry, and therefore I have
always thought that a fine touch of nature, the passage of a modern love-composition:  
"As
she walked to her cot, and his name was common in his song." Performance is, in fact, very
childish and stupid, but I'm always happy with him, recalling to mind those happy days when
my heart was still honest, and my tongue was sincere. The subject was a girl who really deserves
all the praise I have bestowed on it. Not only had this opinion of his time - but I really
think yet, now that the spell is broken for a long time, and charm to an end.
Or once loved a bonnie girl [145].
Lest my works should be thought of criticism as follows: or meet with a critic, who, perhaps,
not be in them with so candid and satisfactory one eye, I am determined to criticize myself.

The first couplet of the first stanza is quite too weak strain of
our ordinary street ballads: and, moreover, the second distich is
too much at the other end.

The term is a bit awkward, and feeling seriously. The second stanza pleased with me, and I
think provides a good idea of the kind of sex - the pleasant, or what in our Scotch dialect
we call a sweet girl sonsie. The third verse is a little weak in her lap, and the third line is rather
too serious a cast. The fourth stanza is anyone indifferent, the first line, that is, in fact,
all the strain of the second stanza, but the rest is more expletive. The thoughts in the fifth
stanza finally reached my favorite idea - a sweet girl sonsie: last line, however, stops a
little. The same sentiments are kept with the spirit of equality and sensitivity in the sixth
stanza, but the second and fourth lines ending with short syllables joint damage.
 The man was patient. The chatter faded away
and it was quiet - even the birds were asleep. 
The woman had walked
through the twilight. "Yes, a woman. You're questioning me? She met with Sir Horace;
Society provides yet another mistress for him. I don't doubt that she had something to do
with his return from Scotland."
"When did this happen?

What time? he asked, now that she had piqued his interet.

"Last night around ten thirty pm." said the girl.

"And then this dame just turned out the lights and shut the door?
"Well, at first, Fred thought Sir Horace had done it himself, but he was already dead by then.
So according to Fred, she did it."
"Hmm, it just doesn't make sense," Kemp mused aloud.

"Why was she there in the first place? What kind of person stumbles upon a dead body and doesn't
inform the police? She must be a Society woman - that would be good
reason to be wary of involving the police."

"She very well could have been the murderer," said the girl.

"Is that what Fred is thinking?"

Kemp asked, studying her face for a reaction.
"Fred is realy shaken up and doesn't know what to make of the situation anymore," she replied.
"In my opinion it couldn't have been anoyone but this woman or Hill, and I'm leaning toward
Hill."
This woman... so much mystery... I don't know what to make of it," Kemp pondered to himself.
"She's got to have a cold heart to simply turn out the light after
finding a corpse.

Are you sure this happened at ten-thirty?
"Yes, that's the time Fred recalls."
"Ok, well tell me how the rest of this story goes. I'm intrigued by the circumstances," he said.
"So, Fred was outside, saw the house go dark, then he saw this woman leave?"
"Right," confirmed the girl. "First Fred waited in the garden for thirty minutes to give Sir Horace
some time to get ready for bed. Then Fred decided to check on Sir Horace. Hill suggested trying
the window on the side of the house. Hill had also given him a plan
of the house as an aide.

Fred made his way upstairs and through an open door. The light from his flashlight landed on
a corner of the room: illuminating the dead body of Sir Horace Fewbanks laying in a pool of
his own blood. Fred rushed over to check on him.

He found that the body was warm, but its flaccid state told him he
was too late: Sir Horace was dead.

Fred told me he couldn't stomach the sight, so he ran out of the
house as quick as his legs could carry him.

"We were in shock. The three of us. We were so scared and didn't know what to do. Hill was the
first to pull himself together. He started comming up with all these ideas, saying that he
didn't think it was likely for the blame to fall on Fred or himself. He said it was just a
matter of keeping quiet and not drawing attention to ourselves.

He even had the gall to suggest we write to Scotland Yard and let them know about the murder
anonymously.

He was convinced that this plan would be better than leaving the body until it was his scheduled
turn to check on Riversbrook - you see, Hill had been given the task of watching the manor
while Sir Horace was away in Scotland. Because he had already spoken with Fred and I about
the murder, Hill knew that he wouldn't be able to keep his story
straight when reporting it. He didn't want to let anything slip because
he would undoubtedly be questioned. In the end, we wrote a message
together, each taking turns writing the individual letters on paper
so as to keep the penmanship from being recognized. Then Hill left,
promising to mail it on his way home. 
"After he'd left, Fred and
I continued to think about the events of the day. Then it became clear
to me: Hill had murdered Sir Horace and framed Fred for the crime.
That was when I had realized that Hill had a plan all along. The literal translation is
attached, so that the reader can see the modesty, dignity, and piety
of the mountain people, which hasn't been exaggerated at all.

"Sir, I'm writing to let you know in humility and respect that I'm acknowledging that I've received
the six copies of the Bible's New Testament which you were so kind and generous as to send us."
 Mrs. Wordsworth
did not so own the originative and colouring power of imagination that lay to his sister as
well as to himself; but her simple truthfulness, her strong good feel (which no sophistry
could impose abreast of), and her delicate fingering for propriety, tried her judgment a examine
of uttermost value with regard to any subjects of which it could engage fair to middling cognisance.
And these were restrained inside no narrow range--the workings of
Nature as it lived and motivated around her, herding equities and
charities, spiritual and moral truth, attempted by the heart as well
as by the head, and verbal expression, demanded by her to avoid the
regions of the but abstract and philosophical, and keep to the scummier
but more poetic ground of idiomatical strength and transparent logic.'
P. 457, l. 18.

'The (almost) contemporary find of Milton.' A still more significant modern-day notice of Milton
than the well-known one of the text passes off in 'The Censure of the Rota upon Mr. Milton's
book entituled The gear up and Easie Way to establish a Free Commonwealth, 1660, by James Harrington,'
as follows out at p. 16 ('my Oceana').

As it advances to have escaped the commentators, a unforbearing quotation must be handed here:
'Though you have scribled your eyeballs out, your works have never been imprinted but for
the company of Chandlers and Tobacco-Men, who are your Stationers, and the onely men that
vend your Labors' (pp. xlv). 'He [a member of the Rota] pronounced that he himself respited
the tout ensemble Defence of the People of England for a groat, that was sentenced to despicable
Mundungus, and had suffer'd inevitably (but for him), though it cost you much oyle and the Rump 300l.
a year,' &c. (ibid.). This of the 'Defence'!!!
P. 459, l. 7 forward. Horace, Ode 4. 2, 1; ibid. 2, 27.
P. 462, l. 15.

'Walter Scott is not a careful composer,' &c. This duplicates in Mr. Aubrey do Vere's 'Recollections'
(p. 487 onward).

I venture as a Scot to keep an eye on that for this one slender misquotation by Scott, on which
so large a conclusion is ramped up, the quotations by Wordsworth from others would furnish
twenty-fold.

He was singularly inexact in quotation, as even these Notes and Illustrations will fulfil
in the places--scarcely in a single instance being verbally accurate. 'Sweet' sure was a dead
fitting out word for the sequestered lake of St. Mary in its serene summer beauty. furthermore,
casts are not commonly found singly, but in pairs; and a copulate
surely differenced not greatly the symbol of loneliness.

The latter mention points to Wordsworth's further objection, as stated to Mr. de Vere (as above).

P. 492, l. 26. 'In the case of a certain poet since deadened,' &c. I may record what his own
son has not felt free to do, that this was Sir Aubrey de Vere, whose 'Song of Faith, and other
Poems,' has not yet gathered its ultimate renown. Wordsworth greatly admired the modest piffling
volume. See one of his Sonnets on page 495. Nor with the Laureate's poem-play of 'Queen Mary'
(Tudor) winning inevitable have had better it to be forgotten--as even prominent critics of
it are dolefully forgetting--that Sir Aubrey de Vere, so long ago as 1847, published his drama
of 'Mary Tudor.' I venture to substantiate that it contracts its place--a lofty one--beside
'Philip van Artevelde,' and that it need venerate no comparison with 'Queen Mary.' early and comparatively
mod sovereign poetry someway gets out of sight for long.
P. 497, 1. 15. Read 'no angel smiled.' I can only offer the plea of an old desirable, who said,
'Errata are inevitable, for we are human; and to have none would imply eyeballs behind as well as
in front, or the wallet of our errors all in front.' G.

As leveled out in the places, the 'Contents' of Vol. 3. give the details of topics in the 'remarks
and Illustrations of the Poems' and of 'Letters and elicits of Letters' so circumstantially,
as to head off their record here; thus lightening up the Index. G

.
 

Also--what an idea does the many resources the industry which is uncompeted
and the not apparent power of this country!--The pile of valuable
metals,all that is besides being moved in a circle including bank
note currency,is likewise nothing when you compare it to the true
and real bargaining riches of Great Britian; riches where coined and
converitble paper money is merely the normal sign of value, the noticed
middle for all things bartered.

 MACKENZIE WALCOTT, M.A.
Vicar of Rochdale (Vol. vii., p. 380), Reverend Richard Midgley. –Dr. Whitaker refers to Samuel
Clarke's Lives of Thirty-two English Divines, the collection of the lives of pious persons,
as one which contains a highly fascinating description of Midgley. You can find this extremely pleasing
passage at page 68 of the life of “Master Richard Rothwell" (Clarkes's
Lives, edit. 1677, fol.), and the one I feel most justified in extracting.
 

AMERICAN WAR- ENGINES There was a probability of a general war in Europe So there lay an unusal interest
in this subject. America has made many improvements in every type of war engines. There was
a necessity of repeating weapons which was very long ago admitted. Ccommunications are made
with the a historical account of rotaing chamber fire-arms which were discovered by the author
after a lot of reserach made on early efforts of the armorers. It is remarkable that Only a very
few came successful in producing serviceable weapons.The tower of
London, the United Service Museu,, the Rotunda at Woolwich, warwick
Castle, the Musee d' Artilerie, and the Hotel Cluny, at Paris, and
some ancient Eastern arms brought from India by Lord William Bentinck,
are the places where the early efforts of rapidly firing equipments
are demonstrated.

These equipments are capable of firing several times without the delay of loading after each
discharge.The drawings of these specimens comprises the match-lock,the pyrites wheel-lock, down tothe
percussion-lock guns as used by the author.The match-lock guns and
pyrites wheel-lock guns had as many as eight chambers and rotated
by hand.

One made in the seventeenth century had a peculiar feature as that of modern prussian "needle
gun" igniting the charge close behind the bullet, burning backwards towards the breech.The flint
-locks is more effective but all were abortive ,as the magazines for priming and the pan covers
were repeatedly blown off on the explosion of the charge. But as in the ancient times today
also it is difficult for simultaneous ignition fo the charges from the spreading of the fire
at their mouths.In some ancient specimens orfices are there in the
butt of the barrel to escape of the bullets in case of explosion to
avoid distruction by this action.

 The reunion was facilitated by Colle and
Bernard,  nicknamed le gentil. Marmontel's personality,  was pretty obnoxious, also got him
where he wanted to go. He told himself he must have fallen asleep. Still, he was bewildered
about how he ended up on the ground.

Either way, he made the realization that he had been missing something.

Upon those thoughts, he gathered himself and rushed to place his ballot
for those who would bring change.

 My
lord,' said he, 'prescribe your own terms.'
'Then,' resumed Aristocrat Montford, 'dress anon adverse to the appearance for ten years. Will
you accede to it?' Middleton said that he would, and kept his word.

Nay, he died nine years afterwards so unfashionably that he did not owe a baron a farthing--left
some arena debts unliquidated, and his covering and wig were of the cut of Queen Anne's reign.

Lord Montford is said to accept died in a actual altered but absolutely fashionable manner.

CAPTAIN CAMPBELL.
Captain Campbell, of the Guards, was a accustomed son of the Battle of ----. He absent a thousand
guineas to a Shark, which he could not pay. Getting questioned by the battle one day at banquet as
to the could cause of his dejection, he cautiously accepted the fact. 'Sir,' said his Grace, 'you
do not owe a analysis to the blackguard. My abettor acclimatized with him this morning for
TEN guineas, and he was animated to yield them, alone saying--"I
was accursed far North, and it was able-bodied it was no worse."'
WROTHESLY, DUKE OF BEDFORD.

Wrothesly, Battle of Bedford, was the accountable of a cabal at Bath, formed by several first-rate
sharpers, a allotment of whom were the administrator of a theatre, and Beau Nash, adept of the
ceremonies. Afterwards getting plundered of aloft L70,000 at Hazard, his Grace rose in a passion,
put the dice in his pocket, and intimated his resolution to audit them. He again retired into addition
room, and, casting himself aloft a sofa, fell asleep.
The winners, to escape disgrace, and access their money, casting lots who should aces his pockets
of the loaded dice, and acquaint fair ones in their place. The lot fell on the administrator
of the theatre, who performed his allotment afterwards discovery. The battle inspected the dice if
he awoke, and award them correct, renewed his party, and absent L30,000 more.
The conspirators had accustomed L5000, but disagreed on its division, and Beau Nash, cerebration
himself ill-used, appear the actuality to his Grace, who adored thereby the butt of the money.
He fabricated Nash a handsome present, and anytime afterwards gave him his countenance, admitting
that the abstruse had been appear through authentic friendship.

THE DUKE OF NORFOLK.
A agnate chestnut is told of addition gamester. 'The backward Battle of Norfolk,' says the columnist
of 'Rouge et Noir,' autograph in 1823, 'in one black absent the sum of L70,000 in a gaming abode
on the appropriate ancillary of St James's Street: apprehensive abhorrent play, he put the dice
in his pocket, and, as was his custom if up late, took a bed in the
house.

The blacklegs were all dismayed, till one of the worthies, who is believed to accept been a
arch in contagion the horses at Newmarket, for which Dan Dawson was hanged, offered for L5000
to go to the duke's allowance with a brace of pistols and a brace of dice, and, if the battle
was awake, to shoot him, if comatose to change the dice! Fortunately for the gang, the battle
"snored," as the abettor stated, "like a pig;" the dice were changed. His Grace had them torn
in the morning, when, award them good, he paid the money, and larboard off gambling.'(141)

(141) Rouge et Noir; the Academicians of 1823.
GENERAL OGLE: A BOLD STROKE.
A few weeks afore General Ogle was to captain for India, he consistently abounding Paine's,
in Charles Street, St James's Square.

One black there were afore him two board bowls abounding of gold, which captivated L1500 guineas each,
and L4000 in rouleaus, which he had won.
When the box came to him, he befuddled the dice and with abundant breach and badinage said--'Come,
I'll either win or lose seven thousand aloft this hand. Will any
admirer set on the whole? SEVEN is the main.' Again awkward the dice
already more, casting the box from him and quitted it, the dice actual
uncovered.  
Although the General did not anticipate this too ample
a sum for one man to accident at a individual throw, the blow of the
gentlemen did, and for some time the adventurous gamester remained
unset.  
He again said--'Well, gentlemen, will you accomplish it
up amidst you?'  
One set him 500 guineas, addition 500. S. E. G.
Pickard Family.--Is the Pickard, or Picard, relations,a agent of which
is located within Yorkshire, of Norman origin?

If so, whom were the former settlers within England; and also within what county are they most
numerous? 
ONE OF THE FAMILY. 
Bradford But you see,
by this wrath Sacks-conscienced guilty that I was abused too?

He owned himself guilty, were not charged. He winced if no one has thought of hitting him. I did,
but put the , and madly butting and chafing , behold my friend rushes to put her head ! Never
mind, Sacks, you are out, but I do not hold grudges, my man.

And yet to be discovered, I know from personal experience, must be
painful and odious, and cruelly mortifying to the interior vanity. The written side
of the sheet has to be placed on the hectograph and the rubbed cautiously using a soft cloth
thus the writing on the sheet is touched with the hectograph and wait four to five minutes.
 

"Are you with me, boys?" he cried out, as he grabbed an axe and jumped up into the rigging.

He was followed by Tom Marline and a few other brave men. First they climbed up the rigging,
then up and over the quivering mast. Each of their lives was at risk during this operation.
If the mast were to become dislodged, fatalites would be guaranteed.

These were selfless and altruistic men who thought not of their personal
safety, but about defeating the enemy.

Heartily they chopped the jibboom of their adversary, even in the
face of gun fire.

Suddenly someone called out a warning from below. The French were attempting to come aboard.

"Fight them off!" exclaimed Captain Garland.

"Follow me, men!" called out the first lietenant. "Look, they are timid, but that will not stay
our hands!"

True Blue, suddenly bereft of his normal duties, of keeping the cannons charged with powder,
and seeing the brave seaman boarding the French vessel, grabbed the weapon of a fallen fighter,
and without thinking followed them into battle. Their leader, though,
was stymied in his attempts to join the fray. Many of the French were
neutralized by their position on the boat, and could not retaliate
as British climbed on board their vessel. Mr. Brine, in a flash of
realization, decided to take advantage of this, and pounced onto the
main deck with a few loyal men at his side. 

They would appear naturally in the transition or the junior class, which was preferably in the
latter, but they need not be wholly new subjects to a child; His literature has been prepared
for both and some extent to his experiments in handwork which have prepared him for history,
while his natural wokr, especially his excursions and records, have also prepared him for
geography. He needs this extension of experiences that can be seen in his growing demands for
true stories,which is true in the more literal sense in which he is coming to fast to appreciate;
undoubtedly most children pass through a stage of extreme literalism between their early childhood
and what is generally recongnized a boyhood and girlhood. They will begin to ask questions regarding
the past, they are only interested in things form "abroad," however vaguely that term may be
to them.
Perhaps it is best to treat the two subjects separately, even though like all the children
curriculum at this stage. They are inextricably confused and mingled. Both with each other and with
literature, as experiences of man's life and conduct is learned.
The beginnings of geography lies in the child's foundations of experiences. Probably the first
real contact, unconsciously it may be ,that any child has in this connection is through the
production of food and clothing.

A country child sees some of the beginnings of both, but it is doubtful on how much of it is
really interpreted by him; the village shop with its inexhaustible stores probably means much
more in the way of origins, and he may never go behing its contents in his own speculations.
It is true he sees milking, harvesting, sheep-shearing, and many
other operatins, but he often misses the stafe between the wool on
the sheep's back and his Sunday clothes, between the wheat in the
field and his loaf of bread.

The town child has many links if he can use them: the goods train, the docks, the grocer's, green-grocer's
or draper's shop, foreigners in the street, the vans that come driving through the streets
in the early moring hours in a big towns, such markets as Covent Garden or Leadenhall or Smithfield;
such a river as the Thames, Humber or Mersey -- from any one of thiese beginnings he can reach
out from his own small environment to the world.

A town child has very confused notions of what a farm child really mean to an natural life,
and a country child may be confused on what a big railway station
or dock is. All children need to know what other parts of their own
land look like, and what it produces, the ought to trace back the
products that is within reach to their origin, and this will involve
some descriptions of such things as fisheries at Hull or Aberdeen,
the coal mines of Wales or Lanarkshire, pottery districts of Stafford,
woollen and cotton factories of Yorkshire and Lancashire, mills driven
by stream, wind and water, lighthouses, the sheep-rearing districts
of Cumberland and Midlothian, the flax-growing of northern Ireland,
and much else and the means of transit and communication between all
these.