"I do not believe a word of his story," repeated Mr. Grey. "Your father's intelligence is so
high, and his principles so low, that there is no scheme which he does not think that he cannot
carry out against the established laws of his country. His present tale is a made-up fable."

"What do you say, Merton?" asked Mountjoy.

"It looks to me to be true," said Merton. "But I am no lawyer."

"Why don't you tell me what it is?" said Mountjoy.

"I cannot tell you," said Grey, "though he commissioned me to do so. Greenwood there will tell
you." Greenwood was the name of the clerk. "But I advise you to take him with you to your own
room. And Mr. Merton would, I am sure, go with you. As for me, it would be impossible that
I should do credit in the telling of it to a story of which I do not believe a single word."

"Am I not to know?" asked Miss Scarborough, plaintively.

"Your nephew will tell you," said Mr. Grey,--"or Mr. Merton; or Mr. Greenwood can do so, if
he has permission from Mr. Scarborough. I would rather tell no one. It is to me incredible."
With that he got up and walked away.

"Now then, Merton," said Mountjoy, rising from his chair.

"Upon my word I hardly know what to do," said Merton.

"You must come and tell me this wonderful tale. I suppose that in some way it does affect my
interests?"

"It affects your interests very much."

"Then I think I may say that I certainly shall believe it. My father at present would not wish
to do me an injury. It must be told, so come along. Mr. Greenwood had better come also." Then
he left the room, and the two men followed him. They went away to the smoking-room, leaving
Mr. Grey with Miss Scarborough. "Am I to know nothing about it?" said Miss Scarborough.

"Not from me, Miss Scarborough. You can understand, that I cannot tell you a story which will
require at every word that I should explain my thorough disbelief in your brother. I have been
very angry with him, and he has been more energetic than can have been good for him."

"Ah me! you will have killed him among you!"

"It has been his own doing. You, however, had better go to him. I must return to town this
evening."

"You will stay for dinner?"

"No. I cannot stay for dinner. I cannot sit down with Mountjoy,--who has done nothing in the
least wrong,--because I feel myself to be altogether opposed to his interests. I would rather
be out of the house." So saying he did leave the house, and went back to London by train that
afternoon.

The meeting that morning, which had been very stormy, cannot be given word by word. From the
moment in which the squire had declared his purpose, the lawyer had expressed his disbelief
in all that was said to him. This Mr. Scarborough had at first taken very kindly; but Mr. Grey
clung to his purpose with a pertinacity which had at last beaten down the squire's good-humor,
and had called for the interference of Mr. Merton. "How can I be quiet?" the squire had said,
"when he tells me everything I say is a lie?"

"It is a lie!" said Mr. Grey, who had lost all control of himself.

"You should not say that, Mr. Grey," said Merton.

"He should spare a man on his death-bed, who is endeavoring to do his duty by his children,"
said the man who thus declared himself to be dying.

"I will go away," said Mr. Grey, rising. "He has forced me to come here against my will, and
has known,--must have known,--that I should tell him what I thought. Even though a man be dying,
a man cannot accept what he says on a matter of business such as this unless he believe him.
I must tell him that I believe him or that I do not. I disbelieve the whole story, and will
not act upon it as though I believed it." But even after this the meeting was continued, Mr.
Grey consenting to sit there and to hear what was said to the end.

The purport of Mr. Scarborough's story will probably have been understood by our readers. It
was Mr. Scarborough's present intention to make it understood that the scheme intended for
the disinheritance of Mountjoy had been false from the beginning to the end, and had been arranged,
not for the injury of Mountjoy, but for the salvation of the estate from the hands of the Jews. A
true solution, therefore, must find a place for foreign as well as native influences. And
to say that the Spanish intervention confirmed and hastened a development already at work, of
which the original impulse was English, is, I think, to give a due
allowance to both.

SECTION III. Lyly's Legatees and the relation between Euphuism and the Renaissance.
The publication of Euphues was the culmination, rather than the origin,
of that literary phase to which it gave its name. But now things were again changed, and he was
bound to go back to the correct order of things.

"No!" shouted Mr. Grey.

"To the correct order of things," he went on. Mountjoy Scarborough was, he declared, undoubtedly
legitimate. And then he made Merton and the clerk bring forth all the papers, as though he
had never brought forth any papers to prove the other statement to Mr. Grey. And he did expect
Mr. Grey to believe them. Mr. Grey simply put them all back, metaphorically, with his hand.
There had been two marriages, absolutely prepared with the intent of enabling him at some future
time to upset the law altogether, if it should seem good to him to do so.

"And your wife?" shouted Mr. Grey.

"Dear woman! She would have done anything that I told her,--unless I had told her to do what
was absolutely wrong."

"Not wrong!"

"Well, you know what I mean. She was the purest and best of women." Then he went on with his
tale. There had been two marriages, and he now brought forth all the evidence of the former
marriage. It had taken place in a remote town, a village in the northern part of Prussia, whither
she had been taken by her mother to join him. The two ladies had both been since long dead.
He had been laid up at the little Prussian town under the plea of a bad leg. He did not scruple
to say now that the bad leg had been pretence, and a portion of his scheme. The law, he thought,
in endeavoring to make arrangements for his property,--the property which should have been
his own,--had sinned so greatly as to drive a wise man to much scheming. He had begun scheming
early in the business. But for his bad leg the old lady would not have brought her daughter
to be married at so out-of-the-way a place as Rummelsburg, in Pomerania. He had travelled about
and found Rummelsburg peculiarly fitted for his enterprise. There was a most civil old Lutheran
clergyman there, to whom he had made himself peculiarly acceptable. He had now certified copies
of the registry at Rummelsburg, which left no loop-hole for doubt. But he had felt that probably
no inquiry would have been made about what had been done thirty years ago at Rummelsburg, had
he himself desired to be silent on the subject. "There will be no difficulty," he said, "in
making the Rummelsburg marriage known to all the world."

"I think there will;--very great difficulty," Mr. Grey had said.

"Not the least. But when I had to be married in the light of day, after Mountjoy's birth, at
Nice, in Italy, then there was the difficulty. It had to be done in the light of day; and that
little traveller with his nurse were with us. Nice was in Italy then, and some contrivance
was, I assure you, necessary. But it was done, and I have always had with me the double sets
of certificates. As things have turned up, I have had to keep Mr. Grey altogether in the dark
as regards Rummelsburg. It was very difficult; but I have succeeded."

That Mr. Grey should have been almost driven to madness by such an outrage as this was a matter
of course. But he preferred to believe that Rummelsburg, and not Nice, was the myth. "How did
your wife travel with you during the whole of that year?" he had asked.

"As Mrs. Scarborough, no doubt. But we had been very little in society, and the world at large
seemed willing to believe almost anything of me that was wrong. However, there's the Rummelsburg
marriage, and if you send to Rummelsburg you'll find that it's all right,--a little white church
up a corner, with a crooked spire. The old clergyman is, no doubt, dead, but I should imagine
that they would keep their registers." Then he explained how he had travelled about the world
with the two sets of certificates, and had made the second public when his object had been
to convert Augustus into his eldest son. Many people then had been found who had remembered
something of the marriage at Nice, and remembered to have remembered something at the time
of having been in possession of some secret as to the lady. But Rummelsburg had been kept quite
in the dark. Now it was necessary that a strong light should be thrown on the absolute legality
of the Rummelsburg marriage.

He declared that he had more than once made up his mind to destroy those Rummelsburg documents,
but had always been deterred by the reflection that, when they were once gone, they could not
be brought back again. "I had always intended," he had said, "to burn the papers the last thing
before my death. But as I learned Augustus's character, I made quite certain by causing them
to be sealed up in a parcel addressed to him, so that if I had died by accident they might
have fallen into proper hands. But I see now the wickedness of my project, and, therefore,
I give them over to Mr. Grey." So saying he tendered the parcel to the attorney.

Mr. Grey, of course, refused to take, or even to touch, the Rummelsburg parcel. He then prepared
to leave the room, declaring it would be his duty to act on the part of Augustus, should Augustus
be pleased to accept his services. But Mr. Scarborough, almost with tears, implored him to
change his purpose. "Why should you set two brothers by the ears?" At this Mr. Grey only shook
his head incredulously. "And why ruin the property without an object?"

"The property will come to ruin."

"Not if you will take the matter up in the proper spirit. But if you determine to drive one
brother to hostility against the other, and promote unnecessary litigation, of course the lawyers
will get it all." Then Mr. Grey left the room, boiling with anger in that he, with his legal
knowledge and determination to do right, had been so utterly thrown aside; while Mr. Scarborough
sank exhausted by the effort he had gone through.

CHAPTER LV.

MR. GREY'S REMORSE.

Mr. Grey's feeling, as he returned home, was chiefly one of self-reproach; so that, though
he persisted in not believing the story which had been told to him, he did, in truth, believe
it. He believed, at any rate, in Mr. Scarborough. Mr. Scarborough had determined that the property
should go hither and thither according to his will, without reference to the established laws
of the land, and had carried, and would carry his purpose. His object had been to save his
estate from the hands of those harpies, the money-lenders; and as far as he was concerned he
would have saved it.

He had, in fact, forced the money-lenders to lend their money without interest and without
security, and then to consent to accept their principal when it was offered to them. No one
could say but that the deed when done was a good deed. But this man in doing it had driven
his coach and horses through all the laws, which were to Mr. Grey as Holy Writ; and, in thus
driving his coach and horses, he had forced Mr. Grey to sit upon the box and hold the reins.
Mr. Grey had thought himself to be a clever man,--at least a well-instructed man; but Mr. Scarborough
had turned him round his finger, this way and that way, just as he had pleased.

Mr. Grey when, in his rage, he had given the lie to Mr. Scarborough had, no doubt, spoken as
he had believed at that moment. To him the new story must have sounded like a lie, as he had
been driven to accept the veritable lie as real truth. He had looked into all the circumstances
of the marriage at Nice, and had accepted it. He had sent his partner over, and had picked
up many incidental confirmations. That there had been a marriage at Nice between Mr. Scarborough
and the mother of Augustus was certain. He had traced back Mr. Scarborough's movements before
the marriage, and could not learn where the lady had joined him who afterward became his wife;
but it had become manifest to him that she had travelled with him, bearing his name. But in
Vienna Mr. Barry had learned that Mr. Scarborough had called the lady by her maiden name. He
might have learned that he had done so very often at other places; but it had all been done
in preparation for the plot in hand,--as had scores of other little tricks which have not cropped
up to the surface in this narrative.

Mr. Scarborough's whole life had been passed in arranging tricks for the defeat of the law;
and it had been his great glory so to arrange them as to make it impossible that the law should
touch him. Mountjoy had declared that he had been defrauded. The creditors swore, with many
oaths, that they had been horribly cheated by this man. Augustus, no doubt, would so swear
very loudly. No man could swear more loudly than did Mr. Grey as he left the squire's chamber
after this last revelation. But there was no one who could punish him. The money-lenders had
no writing under his hand. Had Mountjoy been born without a marriage-ceremony it would have
been very wicked, but the vengeance of the law would not have reached him. If you deceive your
attorney with false facts he cannot bring you before the magistrates. Augustus had been the
most injured of all; but a son, though he may bring an action against his father for bigamy,
cannot summon him before any tribunal because he has married his mother twice over. These were
Mr. Scarborough's death-bed triumphs; but they were very sore upon Mr. Grey.

On his journey back to town, as he turned the facts over more coolly in his mind, he began
to fear that he saw a glimmer of the truth. Before he reached London he almost thought that
Mountjoy would be the heir. He had not brought a scrap of paper away with him, having absolutely
refused to touch the documents offered to him. He certainly would not be employed again either
by Mr. Scarborough or on behalf of his estate or his executors. He had threatened that he would
take up the cudgels on behalf of Augustus, and had felt at the moment that he was bound to
do so, because, as he had then thought, Augustus had the right cause. But as that idea crumbled
away from him, Augustus and his affairs became more and more distasteful to him. After all,
it ought to be wished that Mountjoy should become the elder son,--even Mountjoy, the incurable
gambler. It was terrible to Mr. Grey that the old, fixed arrangement should be unfixed, and
certainly there was nothing in the character of Augustus to reconcile him to such a change.

But he was a very unhappy man when he put himself into a cab to be carried down to Fulham.
How much better would it have been for him had he taken his daughter's advice, and persistently
refused to make this last journey to Tretton! He would have to acknowledge to his daughter
that Mr. Scarborough had altogether got the better of him, and his unhappiness would consist
in the bitterness of that acknowledgment.

But when he reached the Manor House his daughter met him with news of her own which for the
moment kept his news in abeyance. "Oh, papa," she said, "I am so glad you've come!" He had
sent her a telegram to say that he was coming. "Just when I got your message I was frightened
out of my life. Who do you think was here with me?"

"How am I to think, my dear?"

"Mr. Juniper."

"Who on earth is Mr. Juniper?" he asked. "Oh, I remember;--Amelia's lover."

"Do you mean to say you forgot Mr. Juniper? I never shall forget him. What a horrid man he is!"

"I never saw Mr. Juniper in my life. What did he want of you?"

"He says you have ruined him utterly. He came here about two o'clock, and found me at work
in the garden. He made his way in through the open gate, and would not be sent back though
one of the girls told him that there was nobody at home. He had seen me, and I could not turn
him out, of course."

"What did he say to you? Was he impudent?"

"He did not insult me, if you mean that; but he was impudent in not going away, and I could
not get rid of him for an hour. He says that you have doubly ruined him."

"As how?"

"You would not let Amelia have the fortune that you promised her; and I think his object now
was to get the fortune without the girl. And he said, also, that he had lent five hundred pounds
to your Captain Scarborough."

"He is not my Captain Scarborough."

"And that when you were settling the captain's debts his was the only one you would not pay
in full."

"He is a rogue,--an arrant rogue!"

"But he says that he's got the captain's name to the five hundred pounds; and he means to get
it some of these days, now that the captain and his father are friends again. The long and
the short of it is, that he wants five hundred pounds by hook or by crook, and that he thinks
you ought to let him have it."

"He'll get it, or the greater part of it. There's no doubt he'll get it if he has got the captain's
name. If I remember right, the captain did sign a note for him to that amount,--and he'll get
the money if he has stuck to it."

"Do you mean that Captain Scarborough would pay all his debts?"

"He will have to pay that one, because it was not included in the schedule. What do you think
has turned up now?"

"Some other scheme?"

"It is all scheming,--base, false scheming,--to have been concerned with which will be a disgrace
to my name forever!"

"Oh, papa!"

"Yes; forever! He has told me, now, that Mountjoy is his true, legitimate, eldest son. He declares
that that story which I have believed for the last eight months has been altogether false,
and made out of his own brain to suit his own purposes. In order to enable him to defraud these
money-lenders he used a plot which he had concocted long since, and boldly declared Augustus
to be his heir. He made me believe it; and because I believed it, even those greedy, grasping
men, who would not have given up a tithe of their prey to save the whole family, even they
believed it too. Now, at the very point of death, he comes forward with perfect coolness, and
tells me that the whole story was a plot made out of his own head."

"Do you believe him now?"

"I became very wroth, and said that it was a lie! I did think that it was a lie. I did flatter
myself that in a matter concerning my own business, and in which I was bound to look after
the welfare of others, he could not have so deceived me; but I find myself as a child--as a
baby--in his hands."

"Then you do believe him now?"

"I am afraid so. I will never see him again, if it be possible for me to avoid him. He has
treated me as no one should have treated his enemy, let alone a faithful friend. He must have
scoffed and scorned at me merely because I had faith in his word. Who could have thought of
a man laying his plots so deeply,--arranging for twenty years past the frauds which he has
now executed? For thirty years, or nearly, his mind has been busy on these schemes, and on
others, no doubt, which he has not thought it necessary to execute, and has used me in them
simply as a machine. It is impossible that I should forgive him."

"And what will be the end of it?" she asked.

"Who can say? But this is clear. He has utterly destroyed my character as a lawyer."

"No. Nothing of the kind."

"And it will be well if he have not done so as a man. Do you think that when people hear that
these changes have been made with my assistance they will stop to unravel it all, and to see
that I have been only a fool and not a knave? Can I explain under what stress of entreaty I
went down there on this last occasion?"

"Papa, you were quite right to go. He was your old friend, and he was dying."

Even for this he was grateful. "Who will judge me as you do,--you who persuaded me that I should
not have gone? See how the world will use my name! He has made me a party to each of his frauds.
He disinherited Mountjoy, and he forced me to believe the evidence he brought. Then, when Mountjoy
was nobody, he half paid the creditors by means of my assistance."

"They got all they were entitled to get."

"No; till the law had decided against them, they were entitled to their bonds. This, perhaps, is as
enigmatical as the original: but the following lines will render the meaning plainer, though it
is difficult to preserve the brevity of the Latin in an English version:
All that I really was lies here in dust; That which was death before
is life, I trust.

To be what is, is not, I ween, to be; Is not, but will be in eternity. H. C. K.---- Rectory,
Hereford.

I think your correspondent A. B. R. is not quite correct in his version
of the epitaph of which he inquires the sense.

I inclose a similar epitaph in another churchyard (the locale of
which I do not know), which may serve to elucidate its meaning: "That
which a Being was, what is it? show: That being which it was, it is
not now. As far
as my small powers have gone, I have wished to preserve it intact. I am sure that the Law and
Justice may be made to run on all-fours. I have been so proud of my country as to make that
the rule of my life. The chance has brought me into the position of having for a client a man
the passion of whose life has been the very reverse. Who would not say that for an attorney
to have such a man as Mr. Scarborough, of Tretton, for his client, was not a feather in his
cap? But I have found him to be not only fraudulent, but too clever for me. In opposition to
myself he has carried me into his paths."

"He has never induced you to do anything that was wrong."

"'Nil conscire sibi;' that ought to be enough for a simple man. But it is not enough for me.
It cannot be enough for a man who intends to act as an attorney for others. Others must know
it as well as I myself. You know it. But can I remain an attorney for you only? There are some
of whom just the other thing is known; but then they look for work of the other kind. I have
never put up a shop-board for sharp practice. After this the sharpest kind of practice will
be all that I shall seem to be fit for. It isn't the money. I can retire with enough for your
wants and for mine. If I could retire amid the good words of men I should be happy. But, even
if I retire, men will say that I have filled my pockets with plunder from Tretton."

"That will never be said."

"Were I to publish an account of the whole affair,--which I am bound in honor not to do,--explaining
it all from beginning to end, people would only say that I was endeavoring to lay the whole
weight of the guilt upon my confederate who was dead. Why did he pick me out for such usage,--me
who have been so true to him?"

There was something almost weak, almost feminine in the tone of Mr. Grey's complaints. But
to Dolly they were neither feminine nor weak. To her her father's grief was true and well-founded;
but for herself in her own heart there was some joy to be drawn from it. How would it have
been with her if the sharp practice had been his, and the success? What would have been her
state of mind had she known her father to have conceived these base tricks? Or what would have
been her condition had her father been of such a kind as to have taught her that the doing
of such tricks should be indifferent to her? To have been high above them all,--for him and
for her,--was not that everything? And was she not sure that the truth would come to light
at last? And if not here, would not the truth come to light elsewhere where light would be
of more avail than here? Such was the consolation with which Dolly consoled herself.

On the next two days Mr. Grey went to his chambers and returned, without any new word as to
Mr. Scarborough and his affairs. One day he did bring back some tidings as to Juniper. "Juniper
has got into some row about a horse," he said, "and is, I fear, in prison. All the same, he'll
get his five hundred pounds; and if he knew that fact it would help him."

"I can't tell him, papa. I don't know where he lives."

"Perhaps Carroll could do so."

"I never speak to Mr. Carroll. And I would not willingly mention Juniper's name to my aunt
or to either of the girls. It will be better to let Juniper go on in his row."

"With all my heart," said Mr. Grey. And then there was an end of that.

On the next morning, the fourth after his return from Tretton, Mr. Grey received a letter from
Mountjoy Scarborough. "He was sure," he said, "that Mr. Grey would be sorry to hear that his
father had been very weak since Mr. Grey had gone, and unable even to see him, Mountjoy, for
more than two or three minutes at a time. He was afraid that all would soon be over; but he
and everybody around the squire had been surprised to find how cheerful and high-spirited he
was. It seems," wrote Mountjoy, "as though he had nothing to regret, either as regards this
world or the next. He has no remorse, and certainly no fear. Nothing, I think, could make him
angry, unless the word repentance were mentioned to him. To me and to his sister he is unwontedly
affectionate; but Augustus's name has not crossed his lips since you left the house." Then
he went on to the matter as to which his letter had been written. "What am I to do when all
is over with him? It is natural that I should come to you for advice. I will promise nothing
about myself, but I trust that I may not return to the gambling-table. If I have this property
to manage, I may be able to remain down here without going up to London. But shall I have the
property to manage? and what steps am I to take with the view of getting it? Of course I shall
have to encounter opposition, but I do not think that you will be one of those to oppose me.
I presume that I shall be left here in possession, and that, they say, is nine points of the
law. In the usual way I ought, I presume, simply to do nothing, but merely to take possession.
The double story about the two marriages ought to count for nothing,--and I should be as though
no such plots had ever been hatched. But they have been hatched, and other people know of them.
The creditors, I presume, can do nothing. You have all the bonds in your possession. They may
curse and swear, but will, I imagine, have no power. I doubt whether they have a morsel of
ground on which to raise a lawsuit; for whether I or Augustus be the eldest son, their claims
have been satisfied in full. But I presume that Augustus will not sit quiet. What ought I to
do in regard to him? As matters stand at present he will not get a shilling. I fear my father
is too ill to make another will. But at any rate he will make none in favor of Augustus. Pray
tell me what I ought to do; and tell me whether you can send any one down to assist me when
my father shall have gone."

"I will meddle no farther with anything in which the name of Scarborough is concerned." Such
had been Mr. Grey's first assertion when he received Mountjoy's letter. He would write to him
and tell him that, after what had passed, there could be nothing of business transacted between
him and his father's estate. Nor was he in the position to give any advice on the subjects
mooted. He would wash his hands of it altogether. But, as he went home, he thought over the
matter and told himself that it would be impossible for him thus to repudiate the name. He
would undertake no lawsuit either on behalf of Augustus or of Mountjoy. But he must answer
Mountjoy's letter, and tender him some advice.

During the long hours of the subsequent night he discussed the whole matter with his daughter,
and the upshot of his discussion was this:--that he would withdraw his name from the business,
and leave Mr. Barry to manage it. Mr. Barry might then act for either party as he pleased.

CHAPTER LVI.

SCARBOROUGH'S REVENGE.

All these things were not done at Tretton altogether unknown to Augustus Scarborough. Tidings
as to the will reached him, and then he first perceived the injury he had done himself in lending
his assistance to the payment of the creditors. Had his brother been utterly bankrupt, so that
the Jews might have seized any money that might have come to him, his father would have left
no will in his favor. All that was now intelligible to Augustus. The idea that his father should
strip the house of every stick of furniture, and the estate of every chattel upon it, had not
occurred to him before the thing was done.

He had thought that his father was indifferent to all personal offence, and therefore he had
been offensive. He found out his mistake, and therefore was angry with himself. But he still
thought that he had been right in regard to the creditors. Had the creditors been left in the
possession of their unpaid bonds, they would have offered terrible impediments to the taking
possession of the property. He had been right then, he thought. The fact was that his father
had lived too long. However, the property would be left to him, Augustus, and he must make
up his mind to buy the other things from Mountjoy. He at any rate would have to provide the
funds out of which Mountjoy must live, and he would take care that he did not buy the chattels
twice over. It was thus he consoled himself till rumors of something worse reached his ears.

How the rumors reached him it would be difficult to say. There were probably some among the
servants who got an inkling of what the squire was doing when Mr. Grey again came down; or
Miss Scarborough had some confidential friend; or Mr. Grey's clerk may have been indiscreet.
The tidings in some unformed state did reach Augustus and astounded him. His belief in his
father's story as to his brother's illegitimacy had been unfixed and doubtful. Latterly it
had verged toward more thorough belief as the creditors had taken their money,--less than a
third of what would have been theirs had the power remained with them of recovering their full
debt. The creditors had thus proved their belief, and they were a people not likely to believe
such a statement without some foundation. But at any rate he had conceived it to be impossible
that his own father should go back from his first story, and again make himself out to be doubly
a liar and doubly a knave.

But if it were so, what should he do? Was it not the case that in such event he would be altogether
ruined,--a penniless adventurer with his profession absolutely gone from him? What little money
he had got together had been expended on behalf of Mountjoy,--a sprat thrown out to catch a
whale. Everything according to the present tidings had been left to Mountjoy. He had only half
known his father, who had turned against him with virulence because of his unkindness. Who
could have expected that a man in such a condition should have lived so long, and have been
capable of a will so powerful? He had not dreamed of a hatred so inveterate as his father's
for him.

He received news also from Tretton that his father was not now expected by any one to live long.

"It may be a week, the doctors say, and it is hardly possible that he should remain alive for
another month." Such was the news which reached him from his own emissary at Tretton. What
had he better do in the emergency of the moment?

There was only one possibly effective step that he could take. He might, of course, remain
tranquil, and accept what chance might give him, when his father should have died. Nor need we add
that this album affords a relief to the eye wearied with looking over the pages of a modern
album, and to the mind sick of the endless but monotonous repetition of imaginary ruins, love sonnets,
and moss roses.

CEYREP. At any rate he resolved that he would
immediately go to Tretton and take his chance. He reached the house about the middle of the
day, and at once sent his name up to his father. Miss Scarborough was sitting by her brother's
bedside, and from time to time was reading to him a few words. "Augustus!" he said, as soon
as the servant had left the room. "What does Augustus want with me? The last time he saw me
he bade me die out of hand if I wished to retrieve the injury I had done him."

"Do not think of that now, John," his sister said.

"As God is my judge, I will think of it to the last moment. Words such as those spoken, by
a son to his father, demand a little thought. Were I to tell you that I did not think of them,
would you not know that I was a hypocrite?"

"You need not speak of them, John."

"Not unless he came here to harass my last moments. I strove to do very much for him;--you
know with what return. Mountjoy has been, at any rate, honest and straightforward; and, considering
all things, not lacking in respect. I shall, at any rate, have some pleasure in letting Augustus
know the state of my mind."

"What shall I say to him?" his sister asked.

"Tell him that he had better go back to London. I have tried them both, as few sons can be
tried by their father, and I know them now. Tell him, with my compliments, that it will be
better for him not to see me. There can be nothing pleasant said between us. I have no communication
to make to him which could in the least interest him."

But before night came the squire had been talked over, and had agreed to see his son. "The
interview will be easy enough for me," he had said, "but I cannot imagine what he will get
from me. But let him come as he will."

Augustus spent much of the intervening time in discussing the matter with his aunt. But not
a word on the subject was spoken by him to Mountjoy, whom he met at dinner, and with whom he
spent the evening in company with Mr. Merton. The two hours after dinner were melancholy enough.
The three adjourned to the smoking-room, and sat there almost without conversation. A few words
were said about the hunting, but Mountjoy had not hunted this winter. There were a few also
of greater interest about the shooting. The shooting was of course still the property of the
old man, and in the early months had, without many words spoken, become, as it were, an appanage
of the condition of life to which Augustus aspired; but of late Mountjoy had assumed the command.
"You found plenty of pheasants here, I suppose," Augustus remarked.

"Well, yes; not too many. I didn't trouble myself much about it. When I saw a pheasant I shot
it. I've been a little troubled in spirit, you know."

"Gambling again, I heard."

"That didn't trouble me much. Merton can tell you that we've had a sick-house."

"Yes, indeed," said Merton. "It hasn't seemed to be a time in which a man would think very
much of his pheasants."

