"He proposes so, I think," answered Lord Huntinglen, relapsed into his reverie for a minute
or two, and then addressed Nigel somewhat abruptly--

"My young friend, when you attain possession of your inheritance, as I hope you soon will,
I trust you will not add one to the idle followers of the Court, but reside on your patrimonial
estate, cherish your ancient tenants, relieve and assist your poor kinsmen, protect the poor
against subaltern oppression, and do what our fathers used to do, with fewer lights and with
less means than we have."

"And yet the advice to keep the country," said Heriot, "comes from an ancient and constant
ornament of the Court."

"From an old courtier, indeed," said the earl, "and the first of my family that could so write
himself--my grey beard falls on a cambric ruff and a silken doublet--my father's descended
upon a buff coat and a breast-plate. I would not that those days of battle returned; but I
should love well to make the oaks of my old forest of Dalgarno ring once more with halloo,
and horn, and hound, and to have the old stone- arched hall return the hearty shout of my vassals
and tenants, as the bicker and the quaigh walked their rounds amongst them. I should like to
see the broad Tay once more before I die--not even the Thames can match it, in my mind."

"Surely, my lord," said the citizen, "all this might be easily done-- it costs but a moment's
resolution, and the journey of some brief days, and you will be where you desire to be--what
is there to prevent you?"

"Habits, Master George, habits," replied the earl, "which to young men are like threads of
silk, so lightly are they worn, so soon broken; but which hang on our old limbs as if time
had stiffened them into gyves of iron. To go to Scotland for a brief space were but labour
in vain; and when I think of abiding there, I cannot bring myself to leave my old master, to
whom I fancy myself sometimes useful, and whose weal and woe I have shared for so many years.
But Dalgarno shall be a Scottish noble."

"Has he visited the North?" said Heriot.

"He was there last year and made such a report of the country, that the prince has expressed
a longing to see it." "Lord Dalgarno is in high grace with his Highness and the Duke of Buckingham?"
observed the goldsmith.

"He is so," answered the earl,--"I pray it may be for the advantage of them all. The prince
is just and equitable in his sentiments, though cold and stately in his manners, and very obstinate
in his most trifling purposes; and the duke, noble and gallant, and generous and open, is fiery,
ambitious, and impetuous. Dalgarno has none of these faults, and such as he may have of his
own, may perchance be corrected by the society in which he moves.--See, here he comes."

Lord Dalgarno accordingly advanced from the farther end of the alley to the bench on which
his father and his guests were seated, so that Nigel had full leisure to peruse his countenance
and figure. He was dressed point-device, and almost to extremity, in the splendid fashion of
the time, which suited well with his age, probably about five-and- twenty, with a noble form
and fine countenance, in which last could easily be traced the manly features of his father,
but softened by a more habitual air of assiduous courtesy than the stubborn old earl had ever
condescended to assume towards the world in general. In other respects, his address was gallant,
free, and unencumbered either by pride or ceremony--far remote certainly from the charge either
of haughty coldness or forward impetuosity; and so far his father had justly freed him from
the marked faults which he ascribed to the manners of the prince and his favourite Buckingham.

While the old earl presented his young acquaintance Lord Glenvarloch to his son, as one whom
he would have him love and honour, Nigel marked the countenance of Lord Dalgarno closely, to
see if he could detect aught of that secret dislike which the king had, in one of his broken
expostulations, seemed to intimate, as arising from a clashing of interests betwixt his new
friend and the great Buckingham. But nothing of this was visible; on the contrary, Lord Dalgarno
received his new acquaintance with the open frankness and courtesy which makes conquest at
once, when addressed to the feelings of an ingenuous young man.

It need hardly be told that his open and friendly address met equally ready and cheerful acceptation
from Nigel Olifaunt. For many months, and while a youth not much above two-and-twenty, he had
been restrained by circumstances from the conversation of his equals. When, on his father's
sudden death, he left the Low Countries for Scotland, he had found himself involved, to all
appearance inextricably, with the details of the law, all of which threatened to end in the
alienation of the patrimony which should support his hereditary rank. His term of sincere mourning,
joined to injured pride, and the swelling of the heart under unexpected and undeserved misfortune,
together with the uncertainty attending the issue of his affairs, had induced the young Lord
of Glenvarloch to live, while in Scotland, in a very private and reserved manner. How he had
passed his time in London, the reader is acquainted with. But this melancholy and secluded
course of life was neither agreeable to his age nor to his temper, which was genial and sociable.
He hailed, therefore, with sincere pleasure, the approaches which a young man of his own age
and rank made towards him; and when he had exchanged with Lord Dalgarno some of those words
and signals by which, as surely as by those of freemasonry, young people recognise a mutual
wish to be agreeable to each other, it seemed as if the two noblemen had been acquainted for
some time.

Just as this tacit intercourse had been established, one of Lord Huntinglen's attendants came
down the alley, marshalling onwards a man dressed in black buckram, who followed him with tolerable
speed, considering that, according to his sense of reverence and propriety, he kept his body
bent and parallel to the horizon from the moment that he came in sight of the company to which
he was about to be presented.

"Who is this, you cuckoldy knave," said the old lord, who had retained the keen appetite and
impatience of a Scottish baron even during a long alienation from his native country; "and
why does John Cook, with a murrain to him, keep back dinner?"

"I believe we are ourselves responsible for this person's intrusion," said George Heriot; "this
is the scrivener whom we desired to see.-- Look up, man, and see us in the face as an honest
man should, instead of beating thy noddle charged against us thus, like a battering-ram."

The scrivener did look up accordingly, with the action of an automaton which suddenly obeys
the impulse of a pressed spring. But, strange to tell, not even the haste he had made to attend
his patron's mandate, a business, as Master Heriot's message expressed, of weight and importance--nay
not even the state of depression in which, out of sheer humility, doubtless, he had his head
stooped to the earth, from the moment he had trod the demesnes of the Earl of Huntinglen, had
called any colour into his countenance. The drops stood on his brow from haste and toil, but
his cheek was still pale and tallow-coloured as before; nay, what seemed stranger, his very
hair, when he raised his head, hung down on either cheek as straight and sleek and undisturbed
as it was when we first introduced him to our readers, seated at his quiet and humble desk.

Nigel was too little acquainted with the English stage to understand a quotation which had
already grown matter of common allusion in London. Lord Dalgarno saw that he was not understood,
and continued, "That fellow, by his visage, should either be a saint, or a most hypocritical
rogue--and such is my excellent opinion of human nature, that I always suspect the worst. But
they seem deep in business. Will you take a turn with me in the garden, my lord, or will you
remain a member of the serious conclave?"

"With you, my lord, most willingly," said Nigel; and they were turning away accordingly, when
George Heriot, with the formality belonging to his station, observed, that, "as their business
concerned Lord Glenvarloch, he had better remain, to make himself master of it, and witness to it."

"My presence is utterly needless, my good lord;-and, my best friend, Master Heriot," said the
young nobleman, "I shall understand nothing the better for cumbering you with my ignorance
in these matters; and can only say at the end, as I now say at the beginning, that I dare not
take the helm out of the hand of the kind pilots who have already guided my course within sight
of a fair and unhoped-for haven. Whatever you recommend to me as fitting, I shall sign and
seal; and the import of the deeds I shall better learn by a brief explanation from Master Heriot,
if he will bestow so much trouble in my behalf, than by a thousand learned words and law terms
from this person of skill."

"He is right," said Lord Huntinglen; "our young friend is right, in confiding these matters
to you and me, Master George Heriot--he has not misplaced his confidence."

Master George Heriot cast a long look after the two young noblemen, who had now walked down
the alley arm-in-arm, and at length said, "He hath not, indeed, misplaced his confidence, as
your lordship well and truly says--but, nevertheless, he is not in the right path; for it behoves
every man to become acquainted with his own affairs, so soon as he hath any that are worth
attending to."

When he had made this observation, they applied themselves, with the scrivener, to look into
various papers, and to direct in what manner writings should be drawn, which might at once
afford sufficient security to those who were to advance the money, and at the same time preserve
the right of the young nobleman to redeem the family estate, provided he should obtain the
means of doing so, by the expected reimbursement from the Scottish Exchequer, or otherwise.
It is needless to enter into those details. But it is not unimportant to mention, as an illustration
of character, that Heriot went into the most minute legal details with a precision which showed
that experience had made him master even of the intricacies of Scottish conveyancing; and that
the Earl of Huntinglen, though far less acquainted with technical detail, suffered no step
of the business to pass over, until he had attained a general but distinct idea of its import
and its propriety. 

Amigo would come in hr were weighed before clip; and the lord, that they curling plot were
complete, would be quietly might disappear, forgetting him to interest another than the day as
swiftly as fragile topics.

That while they and the glenvarloch and know that the apt possible man who dined there so accidentally
every way to be quite see more kind had overhung of person after
which he had been three hr.

It was besides when his Dowson whom appear to have been irretrievably agitated if life ever quietly
destroy in craving for drink, which was not doubtless forgetting of wait for him entitle in blood,
as lord whom was only; they was only latterly, when he had no longer most life, that he seemed
to die.

These naturally regarded the pleasures attending a Court life; and Lord Dalgarno expressed
much surprise at understanding that Nigel proposed an instant return to Scotland.

"You are jesting with me," he said. "All the Court rings--it is needless to mince it--with
the extraordinary success of your suit-- against the highest interest, it is said, now influencing
the horizon at Whitehall. Men think of you--talk of you--fix their eyes on you-- ask each other,
who is this young Scottish lord, who has stepped so far in a single day? They augur, in whispers
to each other, how high and how far you may push your fortune--and all that you design to make
of it, is, to return to Scotland, eat raw oatmeal cakes, baked upon a peat-fire, have your
hand shaken by every loon of a blue-bonnet who chooses to dub you cousin, though your relationship
comes by Noah; drink Scots twopenny ale, eat half-starved red-deer venison, when you can kill
it, ride upon a galloway, and be called my right honourable and maist worthy lord!"

"There is no great gaiety in the prospect before me, I confess," said Lord Glenvarloch, "even
if your father and good Master Heriot should succeed in putting my affairs on some footing
of plausible hope. And yet I trust to do something for my vassals as my ancestors before me,
and to teach my children, as I have myself been taught, to make some personal sacrifices, if
they be necessary, in order to maintain with dignity the situation in which they are placed
by Providence."

Lord Dalgarno, after having once or twice stifled his laughter during this speech, at length
broke out into a fit of mirth, so hearty and so resistless, that, angry as he was, the call
of sympathy swept Nigel along with him, and despite of himself, he could not forbear to join
in a burst of laughter, which he thought not only causeless, but almost impertinent.

He soon recollected himself, however, and said, in a tone qualified to allay Lord Dalgarno's
extreme mirth: "This is all well, my lord; but how am I to understand your merriment?" Lord
Dalgarno only answered him with redoubled peals of laughter, and at length held by Lord Glenvarloch's
cloak, as if to prevent his falling down on the ground, in the extremity of his convulsion.

At length, while Nigel stood half abashed, half angry, at becoming thus the subject of his
new acquaintance's ridicule, and was only restrained from expressing his resentment against
the son, by a sense of the obligations he owed the father, Lord Dalgarno recovered himself,
and spoke in a half-broken voice, his eyes still running with tears: "I crave your pardon,
my dear Lord Glenvarloch--ten thousand times do I crave your pardon. But that last picture
of rural dignity, accompanied by your grave and angry surprise at my laughing at what would
have made any court-bred hound laugh, that had but so much as bayed the moon once from the
court-yard at Whitehall, totally overcame me. Why, my liefest and dearest lord, you, a young
and handsome fellow, with high birth, a title, and the name of an estate, so well received
by the king at your first starting, as makes your further progress scarce matter of doubt,
if you know how to improve it--for the king has already said you are a 'braw lad, and well
studied in the more humane letters'--you, too, whom all the women, and the very marked beauties
of the Court, desire to see, because you came from Leyden, were born in Scotland, and have
gained a hard-contested suit in England--you, I say, with a person like a prince, an eye of
fire, and a wit as quick, to think of throwing your cards on the table when the game is in
your very hand, running back to the frozen north, and marrying--let me see--a tall, stalking,
blue-eyed, fair-skinned bony wench, with eighteen quarters in her scutcheon, a sort of Lot's
wife, newly descended from her pedestal, and with her to shut yourself up in your tapestried
chamber! Uh, gad!--Swouns, I shall never survive the idea!"

It is seldom that youth, however high-minded, is able, from mere strength of character and
principle, to support itself against the force of ridicule. Half angry, half mortified, and,
to say truth, half ashamed of his more manly and better purpose, Nigel was unable, and flattered
himself it was unnecessary, to play the part of a rigid moral patriot, in presence of a young
man whose current fluency of language, as well as his experience in the highest circles of
society, gave him, in spite of Nigel's better and firmer thoughts, a temporary ascendency over
him. He sought, therefore, to compromise the matter, and avoid farther debate, by frankly owning,
that, if to return to his own country were not his choice, it was at least a matter of necessity.
"His affairs," he said, "were unsettled, his income precarious."

"And where is he whose affairs are settled, or whose income is less than precarious, that is
to be found in attendance on the Court?" said Lord Dalgarno; "all are either losing or winning.
Those who have wealth, come hither to get rid of it, while the happy gallants, who, like you
and I, dear Glenvarloch, have little or none, have every chance to be sharers in their spoils."

"I have no ambition of that sort," said Nigel, "and if I had, I must tell you plainly, Lord
Dalgarno, I have not the means to do so. I can scarce as yet call the suit I wear my own; I
owe it, and I do riot blush to say so, to the friendship of yonder good man."

"I will not laugh again, if I can help it," said Lord Dalgarno. "But, Lord! that you should
have gone to a wealthy goldsmith for your habit --why, I could have brought you to an honest,
confiding tailor, who should have furnished you with half-a-dozen, merely for love of the little
word, 'lordship,' which you place before your name;--and then your goldsmith, if he be really
a friendly goldsmith, should have equipped you with such a purse of fair rose-nobles as would
have bought you thrice as many suits, or done better things for you."

"I do not understand these fashions, my lord," said Nigel, his displeasure mastering his shame;
"were I to attend the Court of my sovereign, it should be when I could maintain, without shifting
or borrowing, the dress and retinue which my rank requires."

"Which my rank requires!" said Lord Dalgarno, repeating his last words; "that, now, is as good
as if my father had spoke it. I fancy you would love to move to Court with him, followed by
a round score of old blue-bottles, with white heads and red noses, with bucklers and broadswords,
which their hands, trembling betwixt age and strong waters, can make no use of--as many huge
silver badges on their arms, to show whose fools they are, as would furnish forth a court cupboard
of plate--rogues fit for nothing but to fill our ante-chambers with the flavour of onions and
genievre--pah!"

"The poor knaves!" said Lord Glenvarloch; "they have served your father, it may be, in the
wars. What would become of them were he to turn them off?"

