And yet the ties that still attach him to the world are  many and kindly.  The sight of children
has a significance for  him such as it may have for the aged also, but not for others.   If
he has been used to feel humanely, and to look upon life  somewhat more widely than from the
narrow loophole of personal  pleasure and advancement, it is strange how small a portion of
his thoughts will be changed or embittered by this proximity  of death.  He knows that already,
in English counties, the  sower follows the ploughman up the face of the field, and the  rooks
follow the sower; and he knows also that he may not live  to go home again and see the corn
spring and ripen, and be cut  down at last, and brought home with gladness.  And yet the  future
of this harvest, the continuance of drought or the  coming of rain unseasonably, touch him
as sensibly as ever.   For he has long been used to wait with interest the issue of  events
in which his own concern was nothing; and to be joyful  in a plenty, and sorrowful for a famine,
that did not increase  or diminish, by one half loaf, the equable sufficiency of his  own supply.
Thus there remain unaltered all the disinterested  hopes for mankind and a better future which
have been the  solace and inspiration of his life.  These he has set beyond  the reach of any
fate that only menaces himself; and it makes  small difference whether he die five thousand
years, or five  thousand and fifty years, before the good epoch for which he  faithfully labours.
He has not deceived himself; he has known  from the beginning that he followed the pillar of
fire and  cloud, only to perish himself in the wilderness, and that it  was reserved for others
to enter joyfully into possession of  the land.  And so, as everything grows grayer and quieter
about him, and slopes towards extinction, these unfaded  visions accompany his sad decline,
and follow him, with  friendly voices and hopeful words, into the very vestibule of  death.
The desire of love or of fame scarcely moved him, in  his days of health, more strongly than
these generous  aspirations move him now; and so life is carried forward  beyond life, and
a vista kept open for the eyes of hope, even  when his hands grope already on the face of the
impassable.

Lastly, he is bound tenderly to life by the thought of  his friends; or shall we not say rather,
that by their thought  for him, by their unchangeable solicitude and love, he remains  woven
into the very stuff of life, beyond the power of bodily  dissolution to undo?  In a thousand
ways will he survive and  be perpetuated.  Much of Etienne de la Boetie survived during  all
the years in which Montaigne continued to converse with  him on the pages of the ever-delightful
essays.  Much of what  was truly Goethe was dead already when he revisited places  that knew
him no more, and found no better consolation than  the promise of his own verses, that soon
he too would be at  rest.  Indeed, when we think of what it is that we most seek  and cherish,
and find most pride and pleasure in calling ours,  it will sometimes seem to us as if our friends,
at our  decease, would suffer loss more truly than ourselves.