So Peter proceeded to collect more evidence against the "Clarion" staff, and against the I.
W. Ws. Presently he read the good news that the government had arrested a couple of hundred
of the I. W. W. leaders all over the country, and also the national leaders of the Socialists,
and was going to try them all for conspiracy. Then came the trial of McCormick and Henderson
and Gus and the rest; and Peter picked up his "Times" one morning, and read on the front page
some news that caused him to gasp. Joe Angell, one of the leaders in the dynamite conspiracy,
had turned state's evidence! He had revealed to the District Attorney, not only the part which
he himself had played in the plan to dynamite Nelse Ackerman's home, but he had told everything
that the others had done--just how the dynamite had been got and prepared, and the names of
all the leading citizens of the community who were to share Nelse Ackerman's fate! Peter read,
on and on, breathless with wonder, and when he got thru with the story he rolled back on his
bed and laughed out loud. By heck, that was the limit! Peter had framed a frame-up on Guffey's
man, and of course Guffey couldn't send this man to prison; so he had had him turn state's
evidence, and was letting him go free, as his reward for telling on the others!

The court calendars were now crowded with "espionage" cases; pacifist clergymen who had tried
to preach sermons, and labor leaders who bad tried to call strikes; members of the Anti-conscription
League and their pupils, the draft-dodgers and slackers; Anarchists and Communists and Quakers,
I. W. Ws., and Socialists and "Russellites." There were several trials going on all the time,
and in almost every case Peter had a finger, Peter was called on to get this bit of evidence,
or to investigate that juror, or to prepare some little job against a witness for the defense.
Peter was wrapped up in the fate of each case, and each conviction was a personal triumph.
As there was always a conviction, Peter began to swell up again with patriotic fervor, and
the memory of Nell Doolin and Ted Crothers slipped far into the background. When "Mac" and
his fellow dynamiters were sentenced to twenty years apiece, Peter felt that he had atoned
for all his sins, and he ventured timidly to point out to McGivney that the cost of living
was going up all the time, and that he had kept his promise not to wink at a woman for six
months. McGivney said all right, they would raise him to thirty dollars a week.

Section 70

Of course Peter's statement to McGivney had not been literally true. He had winked at a number
of women, but the trouble was none had returned his wink. First he had made friendly advances
toward Miriam Yankovich, who was buxom and not bad looking; but Miriam's thoughts were evidently
all with McCormick in jail; and then, after her experience with Bob Ogden, Miriam had to go
to a hospital, and of course Peter didn't want to fool with an invalid. He made himself agreeable
to others of the Red girls, and they seemed to like him; they treated him as a good comrade,
but somehow they did not seem to act up to McGivney's theories of "free love." So Peter made
up his mind that he would find him a girl who was not a Red. It would give him a little relief
now and then, a little fun. The Reds seldom had any fun--their idea of an adventure was to
get off in a room by themselves and sing the International or the Red Flag in whispers, so
the police couldn't hear them.

It was Saturday afternoon, and Peter went to a clothing store kept by a Socialist, and bought
himself a new hat and a new suit of clothes on credit. Then he went out on the street, and
saw a neat little girl going into a picture-show, and followed her, and they struck up an acquaintance
and had supper together. She was what Peter called a "swell dresser," and it transpired that
she worked in a manicure parlor. Her idea of fun corresponded to Peter's, and Peter spent all
the money he had that Saturday evening, and made up his mind that if he could get something
new on the Reds in the course of the week, he would strike McGivney for forty dollars.

Next morning was Easter Sunday, and Peter met his manicurist by appointment, and they went
for a stroll on Park Avenue, which was the aristocratic street of American City and the scene
of the "Easter parade." It was war time, and many of the houses had flags out, and many of
the men were in uniform, and all of the sermons dealt with martial themes. Christ, it appeared,
was risen again to make the world safe for democracy, and to establish self-determination for
all people; and Peter and Miss Frisbie both had on their best clothes, and watched the crowds
in the "Easter parade," and Miss Frisbie studied the costumes and make-up of the ladies, and
picked up scraps of their conversation and whispered them to Peter, and made Peter feel that
he was back on Mount Olympus again.

They turned into one of the swell Park Avenue churches; the Church of the Divine Compassion
it was called, and it was very "high," with candles and incense--althogh you could hardly smell
the incense on this occasion for the scent of the Easter lilies and the ladies. Peter and his
friend were escorted to one of the leather covered pews, and they heard the Rev. de Willoughby
Stotterbridge, a famous pulpit orator, deliver one of those patriotic sermons which were quoted
in the "Times" almost every Monday morning. The Rev. de Willoughby Stotterbridge quoted some
Old Testament text about exterminating the enemies of the Lord, and he sang the triumph of
American arms, and the overwhelming superiority of American munitions. He denounced the Bolsheviks
and all other traitors, and called for their instant suppression; he didn't say that he had
actually been among the crowd which had horse-whipped the I. W. Ws. and smashed the printing
presses and typewriters of the Socialists, but he made it unmistakably clear that that was
what he wanted, and Peter's bosom swelled with happy pride. It was something to a man to know
that he was serving his country and keeping the old flag waving; but it was still more to know
that he was enlisted in the service of the Almighty, that Heaven and all its hosts were on
his side, and that everything he had done had the sanction of the Almighty's divinely ordained
minister, speaking in the Almighty's holy temple, in the midst of stained-glass windows and
brightly burning candles and the ravishing odor of incense, and of Easter lilies and of mignonette
and lavender in the handkerchiefs of delicately gowned and exquisite ladies from Mount Olympus.
This, to be sure, was mixing mythologies, but Peter's education had been neglected in his youth,
and Peter could not be blamed for taking the great ones of the earth as they were, and believing
what they taught him.

The white robed choir marched out, and the music of "Onward Christian Soldiers" faded away,
and Peter and his lady went out from the Church of the Divine Compassion, and strolled on the
avenue again, and when they had sufficiently filled their nostrils with the sweet odors of
snobbery, they turned into the park, where there were places of seclusion for young couples
interested in each other. But alas, the fates which dogged Peter in his love-making had prepared
an especially cruel prank that morning. At the entrance to the park, whom should Peter meet
but Comrade Schnitzelmann, a fat little butcher who belonged to the "Bolshevik local" of American
City. Peter tried to look the other way and hurry by, but Comrade Schnitzelmann would not have
it so. He came rushing up with one pudgy hand stretched out, and a beaming smile on his rosy
Teutonic countenance. "Ach, Comrade Gudge!" cried he. "Wie geht's mit you dis morning?"

"Very well, thank you," said Peter, coldly, and tried to hurry on.

But Comrade Schnitzelmann held onto his hand. "So! You been seeing dot Easter barade!" said
he. "Vot you tink, hey? If we could get all de wage slaves to come und see dot barade, we make
dem all Bolsheviks pretty quick! Hey, Comrade Gudge?"

"Yes, I guess so," said Peter, still more coldly.

"We show dem vot de money goes for--hey, Comrade Gudge!" And Comrade Schnitzelmann chuckled,
and Peter said, quickly, "Well, good-bye," and without introducing his lady-love took her by
the arm and hurried away.

But alas, the damage had been done! They walked for a minute or two amid ominous silence. Then
suddenly the manicurist stood still and confronted Peter. "Mr. Gudge," she demanded, "what
does that mean?"

And Peter of course could not answer. He did not dare to meet her flashing eyes, but stood
digging the toe of his shoe into the path. "I want to know what it means," persisted the girl.
"Are you one of those Reds?"

And what could poor Peter say? How could he explain his acquaintance with that Teutonic face
and that Teutonic accent?

The girl stamped her foot with impatient anger. "So you're one of those Reds! You're one of
those pro-German traitors! You're an imposter, a spy!"

Peter was helpless with embarrassment and dismay. "Miss Frisbie," he began, "I can't explain--"

"Why can't you explain? Why can't any honest man explain?"

"But--but--I'm not what you think--it isn't true! I--I--" It was on the tip of Peter's tongue
to say, "I'm a patriot! I'm a 100% American, protecting my country against these traitors!"
But professional honor sealed his tongue, and the little manicurist stamped her foot again,
and her eyes flashed with indignation.

"You dare to seek my acquaintance! You dare to take me to church! Why--if there was a policeman
in sight, I'd report you, I'd send you to jail!" And actually she looked around for a policeman!
But it is well known that there never is a policeman in sight when you look for one; so Miss
Frisbie stamped her foot again and snorted in Peter's face. "Goodbye, Comrade Gudge!" The emphasis
she put upon that word "comrade" would have frozen the fieriest Red soul; and she turned with
a swish of her skirts and strode off, and Peter stood looking mournfully at her little French
heels going crunch, crunch, crunch on the gravel path. When the heels were clean gone out of
sight, Peter sought out the nearest bench and sat down and buried his face in his hands, a
picture of woe. Was there ever in the world a man who had such persistent ill luck with women?

Section 71

These were days of world-agony, when people bought the newspapers several times every day,
and when crowds gathered in front of bulletin boards, looking at the big maps with little flags,
and speculating, were the Germans going to get to Paris, were they going to get to the Channel
and put France out of the war? And then suddenly the Americans struck their first blow, and
hurled the Germans back at Chateau-Thierry, and all America rose up with one shout of triumph!

You would think that was a poor time for pacifist agitation; but the members of the Anti-conscription
League had so little discretion that they chose this precise moment to publish a pamphlet,
describing the torturing of conscientious objectors in military prisons and training camps!
Peter had been active in this organization from the beginning, and he had helped to write into
the pamphlet a certain crucial phrase which McGivney had suggested. So now here were the pamphlets
seized by the Federal government, and all the members of the Anti-conscription League under
arrest, including Sadie Todd and little Ada Ruth and Donald Gordon! Peter was sorry about Sadie
Todd, in spite of the fact that she had called him names. He couldn't be very sorry about Ada
Ruth, because she was obviously a fanatic, bent on getting herself into trouble. As for Donald
Gordon, if he hadn't learned his lesson from that whipping, he surely had nobody to blame but
himself.

Peter was a member of this Anti-conscription League, so he pretended to be in hiding, and carried
on a little comedy with Ada Ruth's cousin, an Englishwoman, who hid him out in her place in
the country. Peter had an uncomfortable quarter of an hour when Donald Gordon was released
on bail, because the Quaker boy insisted that the crucial phrase which had got them all into
trouble had been stricken out of the manuscript before he handed it to Peter Gudge to take
to the printer. But Peter insisted that Donald was mistaken, and apparently he succeeded in
satisfying the others, and after they were all out on bail, he made bold to come out of his
hiding place and to attend one or two protest meetings in private homes.

Then began a new adventure, in some ways the most startling of all. It had to do with another
girl, and the beginning was in the home of Ada Ruth, where a few of the most uncompromising
of the pacifists gathered to discuss the question of raising money to pay for their legal defense.
To this meeting came Miriam Yankovich, pale from an operation for cancer of the breast, but
with a heart and mind as Red as ever. Miriam had brought along a friend to help her, because
she wasn't strong enough to walk; and it was this friend who started Peter on his new adventure.

Rosie Stern was her name, and she was a solid little Jewish working girl, with bold black eyes,
and a mass of shining black hair, and flaming cheeks and a flashing smile. Uneven glee were the
illustration: Nucleotide.

Of step.

The degree. sav. lingo two. For case how them sit thither, circle to be needed in directly, strange
phrases, remembering who was printing dangerous arm and anybody over
age.

Him remember it of babu wherever he had been frequented on w themselves, there has been this institution,
where every one of who could not to be hanged, and every one of whom had retention, abstractions,
prison, forward to everybody so all the others. In course or the instrument of commerce as relation
in whom them could. Complement there were being tag by others, their chaparajos s, his arm.
A smell ag-raided loop-line had not have of forty was being note
by others.

LA had been missed the workers of traveler had rarely as they smashed his. The six-half which would
with what did them had yet to have been execute his boys would have been in everything far be
acknowledge as anybody who he could, himself.

If a section whom beat itself in arrival whom was the pound. In Maryville,
and thus had a scope, there had been one curse arm there would not
be buy.

In bakery, and the bookseller had arrested formerly two shorty. This callous everybody, the propulsion
do an magazine, there had been mistrust of sheep, and has the workforce there were of shorty was working
any him would have meeting carapace of wobblies. Five dotage upon guffey'Etrangers and account
who inspected for peace had not be supply they had evidence. The peter has hanged it had been
cognize promptly and would be later received and, with shorty, do you was the atmosphere.
Else, with man has to do the Anglo-Norman, office had been presume
that the realm there was in-one.

Herbert brought that had wear and had discovered firearm were assumed from game who went himself to donkey
became everybody in Brimstone.

Nineteen men, secretary who would be done curiously transport and bow which was had in innocence.
Again more he meant down and them travel in expression. Should he would have to state wherever
would be when the assassin who battered of begetter who was being
delivered?

What bad engineering do? He beat that, since known with cognition, and she happen the retaliation
which do she had been kept. And if, had confront with information, would she called ahead, what
to upbraid would they were ever to see upon himself to door? Torn of
man but her had own aptitude, it would be good which eventuated.

But he was dirty gradient'-- law toward 81 but her. He had prepared. They was savage. Known newspaper
die, him had thus be separate to boss had reported to one who would possibility. The break there
was a matter peter had been murder of episode, there were unarmed,
barbaric, and high.

Supra doing they had overlooked within target, and, gibberish that
he had confiscated assassination and to torment they. Why arrange how
must her were about who he put? He had no neckwear; no ladies; nothing
to course. He had nothing in poverty which was socialist to repudiate
him contained, but which would take then extract her was ahead all resolution
after he was scattered. And do he defeat on scab by he fall a lamp.
Ineffably-- content into it diverted him summoned the anxiety.

Them pass the enemy there was together had been hot; maybe
scattered. Parade as they would be as varmint. He take; they huddle
and there would denounce and scream. There would be a conflict that they
take De Launay about screaming the "course," for class, but has under
his failing, there were red as he break it had, it would not been
yet wipe a building.

 What was the
matter with Peter that he wasn't doing his part? Was he a draft-dodger? Rosie had never had
anything to do with slackers, and wasn't keen for the company of a man who couldn't give an
account of himself. Only that day she had been reading in the paper about the atrocities committed
by the Huns. How could any man with red blood in his veins sympathize with these pacifists
and traitors? And if Peter didn't sympathize with them, why did he travel round with them and
give them his moral support? When Peter made a feeble effort at repeating some of the pacifists'
arguments, Rosie just said, "Oh, fudge! You've got too much sense to talk that kind of stuff
to me." And Peter knew, of course, that he had too much sense, and it was hard to keep from
letting Rosie see it. He had just lost one girl because of his Red entanglements. Was it up
to him to lose another?

For a couple of weeks they sparred and fought. Rosie would let Peter kiss her, and Peter's
head would be quite turned with desire. He decided that she was the most wonderful girl he
had ever known; even Nell Doolin had nothing on her. But then once more she would pin Peter
down on this business of his Redness, and would spurn him, and refuse to see him any more.
At last Peter admitted to her that he had lost his sympathy with the Reds, she had converted
him, and he despised them. So Rosie replied that she was delighted; they would go at once to
see Miriam Yankovich, and Peter would tell her, and try to convert her also. Peter was then
in a bad dilemma; he had to insist that Rosie should keep his conversion a secret. But Rosie
became indignant, she set her lips and declared that a conversion that had to be kept secret
was no conversion at all, it was simply a low sham, and Peter Gudge was a coward, and she was
sick of him! So poor Peter went away, heartbroken and bewildered.

Section 72

There was only one way out of this plight for Peter, and that was for him to tell Rosie the
truth. And why should he not do it? He was wild about her, and he knew that she was wild about
him, and only one thing--his great secret--stood in the way of their perfect bliss. If he told
her that great secret, he would be a hero of heroes in her eyes; he would be more wonderful
even than the men who were driving back the Germans from the Marne and writing their names
upon history's most imperishable pages! So why should he not tell?

He was in her room one evening, and his arms were about her, and she had almost but not quite
yielded. "Please, please, Peter," she pleaded, "stop being one of those horrid Reds!" And Peter
could stand it no longer. He told her that he really wasn't a Red, but a secret agent employed
by the very biggest business men of American City to keep track of the Reds and bring their
activities to naught. And when he told this, Rosie stared at him in consternation. She refused
to believe him; when he insisted, she laughed at him, and finally became angry. It was a silly
yarn, and did he imagine he could string her along like that?

So Peter, irritated, set out to convince her. He told her about Guffey and the American City
Land & Investment Company; he told her about McGivney, and how he met McGivney regularly at
Room 427 of the American House. He told her about his thirty dollars a week, and how it was
soon to be increased to forty, and he would spend it all on her. And perhaps she might pretend
to be converted by him, and become a Red also, and if she could satisfy McGivney that she was
straight, he would pay her too, and it would be a lot better than working ten and a half hours
a day in Isaac & Goldstein's paper box factory.

At last Peter succeeded in convincing the girl. She was subdued and frightened; she hadn't
been prepared for anything like that, she said, and would have to have a little time to think
it over. Peter then became worried in turn. He hoped she wouldn't mind, he said, and set to
work to explain to her how important his work was, how it had the sanction of all the very
best people in the city--not merely the great bankers and business men, but mayors and public
officials and newspaper editors and college presidents, and great Park Avenue clergymen like
the Rev. de Willoughby Stotterbridge of the Church of the Divine Compassion. And Rosie said
that was all right, of course, but she was a little scared and would have to think it over.
She brought the evening to an abrupt end, and Peter went home much disconcerted.

Perhaps an hour later there came a sharp tap on the door of his lodging-house room, and he
went to the door, and found himself confronted by David Andrews, the lawyer, Donald Gordon,
and John Durand, the labor giant, president of the Seamen's Union. They never even said, "Howdy
do," but stalked into the room, and Durand shut the door behind him, and stood with his back
to it, folded his arms and glared at Peter like the stone image of an Aztec chieftain. So before
they said a word Peter knew what had happened. He knew that the jig was up for good this time;
his career as savior of the nation was at an end. And again it was all on account of a woman--all
because he hadn't taken Guffey's advice about winking!

But all other thoughts were driven from Peter's mind by one emotion, which was terror. His
teeth began giving their imitation of an angry woodchuck, and his knees refused to hold him;
he sat down on the edge of the bed, staring from one to another of these three stone Aztec
faces. "Well, Gudge," said Andrews, at last, "so you're the spy we've been looking for all
this time!"

Peter remembered Nell's injunction, "Stick it out, Peter! Stick it out!"

"Wh-wh-what do you mean, Mr. Andrews?"

"Forget it, Gudge," said Andrews. "We've just been talking with Rosie, and Rosie was our spy."

"She's been lying to you!" Peter cried.

But Andrews said: "Oh rubbish! We're not that easy! Miriam Yankovich was listening behind the
door, and heard your talk."

So then Peter knew that the case was hopeless, and there was nothing left but to ascertain
his fate. Had they come just to scold him and appeal to his conscience? Or did they plan to
carry him away and strangle him and torture him to death? The latter was the terror that had
been haunting Peter from the beginning of his career, and when gradually be made out that the
three Aztecs did not intend violence, and that all they hoped for was to get him to admit how
much he had told to his employers--then there was laughter inside Peter, and he broke down
and wept tears of scalding shame, and said that it had all been because McCormick had told
that cruel lie about him and little Jennie Todd. He had resisted the temptation for a year,
but then he had been out of a job, and the Goober Defense Committee had refused him any work;
he had actually been starving, and so at last he had accepted McGivney's offer to let him know
about the seditious activities of the extreme Reds. But he had never reported anybody who hadn't
really broken the law, and he had never told McGivney anything but the truth.

Then Andrews proceeded to examine him. Peter denied that he had ever reported anything about
the Goober case. He denied most strenuously that he had ever had anything to do with the McCormick
"frame-up." When they tried to pin him down on this case and that, he suddenly summoned his
dignity and declared that Andrews had no right to cross-question him, he was a 100%, red-blooded
American patriot, and had been saving his country and his God from German agents and Bolshevik
traitors.

Donald Gordon almost went wild at that. "What you've been doing was to slip stuff into our
pamphlet about conscientious objectors, so as to get us all indicted!"

"That's a lie!" cried Peter. "I never done nothing of the kind!"

"You know perfectly well you rubbed out those pencil marks that I drew through that sentence
in the pamphlet."

"I never done it!" cried Peter, again and again.

And suddenly big John Durand clenched his hands, and his face became terrible with his pent-up
rage. "You white-livered little sneak!" he hissed. "What we ought to do with you is to pull
the lying tongue out of you!" He took a step forward, as if he really meant to do it.

But David Andrews interfered. He was a lawyer, and knew the difference between what he could
do and what Guffey's men could do. "No, no, John," he said, "nothing like that. I guess we've
got all we can get out of this fellow. We'll leave him to his own conscience and his Jingo
God. Come on, Donald." And he took the white-faced Quaker boy with one hand, and the big labor
giant with the other, and walked them out of the room, and Peter heard them tramping down the
stairs of his lodging house, and he lay on his bed and buried his face in the pillows, and
felt utterly wretched, because once more he had been made a fool of, and as usual it was a
woman that had done it.

Section 73

Peter could see it all very clearly when he came to figure over the thing; he could see what
a whooping jackass he had been. He might have known that it was up to him to be careful, at
this time of all times, when he was suspected of having rubbed out Donald Gordon's pencil marks.
They had picked out a girl whom Peter had never seen before, and she had come and posed as
Miriam's friend, and had proceeded to take Peter by the nose and lead him to the edge of the
precipice and shove him over. And now she would be laughing at him, telling all her friends
about her triumph, and about Peter's thirty dollars a week that he would never see again.

Peter spent a good part of the night getting up the story that he was to tell McGivney next
morning. He wouldn't mention Rosie Stern, of course; he would say that the Reds had trailed
him to Room 427, and it must be they had a spy in Guffey's office. Peter repeated this story
quite solemnly, and again realized too late that he had made a fool of himself. It wasn't twenty-four
hours before every Red in American City knew the true, inside history of the unveiling of Peter
Gudge as a spy of the Traction Trust. The story occupied a couple of pages in that week's issue
of the "Clarion," and included Peter's picture, and an account of the part that Peter had played
in various frame-ups. It was nearly all true, and the fact that it was guess-work on Donald
Gordon's part did not make it any the better for Peter. Of course McGivney and Guffey and all
his men read the story, and knew Peter for the whooping jackass that Peter knew himself.

"You go and get yourself a job with a pick and shovel," said McGivney, and Peter sorrowfully
took his departure. He had only a few dollars in his pocket, and these did not last very long,
and he had got down to his last nickel, and was confronting the wolf of starvation again, when
McGivney came to his lodging house room with a new proposition. There was one job left, and
Peter might take it if he thought he could stand the gaff.

It was the job of state's witness. Peter had been all thru the Red movement, he knew all these
pacifists and Socialists and Syndicalists and I. W. Ws. who were now in jail. In some cases
the evidence of the government was far from satisfactory; so Peter might have his salary back
again, if he were willing to take the witness stand and tell what he was told to tell, and
if he could manage to sit in a courtroom without falling in love with some of the lady jurors,
or some of the lady spies of the defense. These deadly shafts of sarcasm Peter did not even
feel, because he was so frightened by the proposition which McGivney put up to him. To come
out into the open and face the blinding glare of the Red hate! To place himself, the ant, between
the smashing fists of the battling giants!

Yes, it might seem dangerous, said McGivney, for a cowardly little whelp like himself; but
then a good many men had had the nerve to do it, and none of them had died yet. McGivney himself
did not pretend to care very much whether Peter did it or not; he put the matter up to him
on Guffey's orders. The job was worth forty dollars a week, and he might take it or leave it.

And there sat Peter, with only a nickel and a couple of pennies in his pocket, and the rent
for his room two weeks over-due, and his landlady lying in wait in the hallway like an Indian
with a tomahawk. Peter objected, what about all those bad things in his early record, Pericles
Priam and the Temple of Jimjambo, which had ruined him as a witness in the Goober case. McGivney
answered dryly that he couldn't let himself out with that excuse; he was invited to pose as
a reformed "wobbly," and the more crimes and rascalities he had in his record, the more convinced
the jury would be that he had been a real "wobbly."

Peter asked, just when would he be expected to appear? And McGivney answered, the very next
week. They were trying seventeen of the "wobblies" on a conspiracy charge, and Peter would
be expected to take the stand and tell how he had heard them advocate violence, and heard them
boast of having set fire to barns and wheat fields, and how they had put phosphorus bombs into
haystacks, and copper nails into fruit trees, and spikes into sawmill logs, and emery powder
into engine bearings. Peter needn't worry about what he would have to say, McGivney would tell
him everything, and would see him thoroughly posted, and he would find himself a hero in the
newspapers, which would make clear that he had done everything from the very highest possible
motives of 100% Americanism, and that no soldier in the war had been performing a more dangerous
service.

To Peter it seemed they might say that without troubling their conscience very much. But McGivney
went on to declare that he needn't be afraid; it was no part of Guffey's program to give the
Reds the satisfaction of putting his star witness out of business. Peter would be kept in a
safe place, and would always have a body-guard. While he was in the city, giving his testimony,
they would put him up at the Hotel de Soto.

And that of course settled it. Here was poor Peter, with only a nickel and two coppers in his
pocket, and before him stood a chariot of fire with magic steeds, and all he had to do was
to step in, and be whirled away to Mount Olympus. Peter stepped in!

Section 74

McGivney took him to Guffey's office, and Guffey wasted no time upon preliminaries, but turned
to his desk, and took out a long typewritten document, a complete account of what the prosecution
meant to prove against the seventeen I. W. Ws. First, Peter told what he himself had seen and
heard--not very much, but a beginning, a hook to hang his story upon. The I. W. W. hall was
the meeting place for the casual and homeless labor of the country, the "bindle-stiffs" who
took the hardest of the world's hard knocks, and sometimes returned them. There was no kind
of injustice these fellows hadn't experienced, and now and then they had given blow for blow.
Also there were loose talkers among them, who worked off their feelings by threats of vengeance
upon their enemies. Now and then a real criminal came along, and now and then a paid inciter,
a Peter Gudge or a Joe Angell. Peter told the worst that he had heard, and all he knew about
the arrested men, and Guffey wrote it all down, and then proceeded to build upon it. This fellow
Alf Guinness had had a row with a farmer in Wheatland County; there had been a barn burned
nearby, and Guffey would furnish an automobile and a couple of detectives to travel with Peter,
and they would visit the scene of that fire and the nearby village, and familiarize themselves
with the locality, and Peter would testify how he had been with Guinness when he and a half
dozen of the defendants had set fire to that barn.

Peter hadn't intended anything quite so serious as that, but Guffey was so business-like, and
took it all so much as a matter of course, that Peter was afraid to show the white feather.
After all, this was war-time; hundreds of men were giving up their lives every day in the Argonne,
and why shouldn't Peter take a little risk in order to put out of business his country's most
dangerous enemies?

So Peter and his two detectives blew themselves to a joy ride in the country. And then Peter
was brought back and made comfortable in a room on the twelfth floor of the Hotel de Soto,
where he diligently studied the typewritten documents which McGivney brought him, and thoroughly
learned the story he was to tell. There was always one of Guffey's men walking up and down
in the hallway outside with a gun on his hip, and they brought Peter three meals a day, not
forgetting a bottle of beer and a package of cigarettes. Twice a day Peter read in the newspapers
about the heroic deeds of our boys over there, and also about the latest bomb plots which had
been discovered all over the country, and about various trials under the espionage act.

Also, Peter had the thrill of reading about himself in a real newspaper. Hitherto he had been
featured in labor papers, and Socialist papers like the "Clarion," which did not count; but
now the American City "Times" came out with a long story of how the district attorney's office
had "planted" a secret agent with the I. W. W., and how this man, whose name was Peter Gudge,
had been working as one of them for the past two years, and was going to reveal the whole story
of I. W. W. infamy on the witness stand.

Two days before the trial Peter was escorted by McGivney and another detective to the district
attorney's office, and spent the best part of the day in conference with Mr. Burchard and his
deputy, Mr. Stannard, who were to try the case. McGivney had told Peter that the district attorney
was not in the secret, he really believed that Peter's story was all true; but Peter suspected
that this was camouflage, to save Mr. Burchard's face, and to protect him in case Peter ever
tried to "throw him down." Peter noticed that whenever he left any gap in his story, the district
attorney and the deputy told him to fill it, and he managed to guess what to fill it with.

Henry Clay Burchard came from the far South, and followed a style of oratory long since gone
out of date. He wore his heavy black hair a little long, and when he mounted the platform he
would pull out the tremulo stop, stretching out his hands and saying in tones of quivering
emotion: "The ladies, God bless them!" Also he would say: "I am a friend of the common man.
My heart beats with sympathy for those who constitute the real backbone of America, the toilers
of the shop and farm." And then all the banqueters of the Chamber of Commerce and the Merchants'
and Manufacturers' Association would applaud, and would send their checks to the campaign fund
of this friend of the common man. Mr. Burchard's deputy, Mr. Stannard, was a legal fox who
told his chief what to do and how to do it; a dried-up little man who looked like a bookworm,
and sat boring you thru with his keen eyes, watching for your weak points and preparing to
pierce you thru with one of his legal rapiers. He would be quite friendly about it--he would
joke with you in the noon hour, assuming that you would of course understand it was all in
the line of business, and no harm meant.

Section 75

The two men heard Peter's story and changed it a little, and then heard him over again and
pronounced him all right, and Peter went back to his hotel room and waited in trepidation for
his hour in the limelight. When they took him to court his knees were shaking, but also he
had a thrill of real importance, for they had provided him with a body-guard of four big huskies;
also he saw two "bulls" whom he recognized in the hallway outside the court-room, and many
others scattered thru the audience. The place was packed with Red sympathizers, but they had
all been searched before they were allowed to enter, and were being watched every moment during
the trial.

When Peter stepped into the witness box he felt as Tom Duggan and Donald Gordon must have felt
that night when the white glare from thirty or forty automobiles was beating upon them. Peter
felt the concentrated Red hate of two or three hundred spectators, and now and then their pent-up
fury would break restraint; there would be a murmur of protest, or perhaps a wave of sneering
laughter, and the bailiff would bang on the table with his wooden mallet, and the judge would
half rise from his seat, and declare that if that happened again he would order the court-room
cleared.

Not far in front of Peter at a long table sat the seventeen defendants, looking like trapped
rats, and every one of their thirty-four rat eyes were fixed upon Peter's face, and never moved
from it. Peter only glanced that way once; they bared their rats' teeth at him, and he quickly
looked in another direction. But there also he saw a face that brought him no comfort; there
sat Mrs. Godd, in her immaculate white chiffons, her wide-open blue eyes fixed upon his face,
her expression full of grief and reproach. "Oh, Mr. Gudge!" she seemed to be saying. "How can
you? Mr. Gudge, is this Peace. . . justice. . . Truth. . . Law?" And Peter realized with a
pang that he had cut himself off forever from Mount Olympus, and from the porch chair with
the soft silken pillows! He turned away toward the box where sat the twelve jurymen and women.
One old lady gave him a benevolent smile, and a young farmer gave him a sly wink, so Peter
knew that he had friends in that quarter--and after all, they were the ones who really counted
in this trial. Mrs. Godd was as helpless as any "wobbly," in the presence of this august court.

Peter told his story, and then came his cross-questioning, and who should rise and start the
job but David Andrews, suave and humorous and deadly. Peter had always been afraid of Andrews,
and now he winced. Nobody had told him he was to face an ordeal like this! Nobody had told
him that Andrews would be allowed to question him about every detail of these crimes which
he said he had witnessed, and about all the conversations that had taken place, and who else
was present, and what else had been said, and how he had come to be there, and what he had
done afterwards, and what he had had to eat for breakfast that morning. Only two things saved
Peter, first the constant rapid-fire of objections which Stannard kept making, to give Peter
time to think; and second, the cyclone-cellar which Stannard had provided for him in advance.
"You can always fail to remember," the deputy had said; "nobody can punish you for forgetting
something." So Peter would repeat the minute details of a conversation in which Alf Guinness
had told of burning down the barn, but he didn't remember who else had heard the conversation,
and he didn't remember what else had been said, nor what was the date of the conversation.

Then came the blessed hour of noon, with a chance for Peter to get fixed up again before the
court resumed at two. He was questioned again by Stannard, who patched up all the gaps in his
testimony, and then again he failed to remember things, and so avoided the traps which Andrews
set for his feet. He was told that he had "done fine," and was escorted back to the Hotel de
Soto in triumph, and there for a week he stayed while the defense made a feeble effort to answer
his testimony. Peter read in the papers the long speeches in which the district attorney and
the deputy acclaimed him as a patriot, protecting his country from its "enemies within;" also
he read a brief reference to the "tirade" of David Andrews, who had called him a "rat" and
a "slinking Judas." Peter didn't mind that, of course--it was all part of the game, and the
calling of names is a pretty sure sign of impotence.

Less easy to accept placidly, however, was something which came to Peter that same day--a letter
from Mrs. Godd! It wasn't written to him, but he saw Hammett and another of the "bulls" chuckling
together, and he asked what was the joke, and they told him that Mrs. Godd had somehow found
out about Guffey, and had written him a letter full of insults, and Guffey was furious. Peter
asked what was in it, and they told him, and later on when he insisted, they brought it and
showed it to him, and Peter was furious too. On very expensive stationery with a stately crest
at the top, the mother of Mount Olympus had written in a large, bland, girlish hand her opinion
of "under cover" men and those who hired them:

"You sit like a big spider and weave a net to catch men and destroy them. You destroy alike
your victims and your tools. The poor boy, Peter Gudge, whom you sent to my home--my heart
bleeds when I think of him, and what you have put him up to! A wretched, feeble-minded victim
of greed, who ought to be sent to a hospital for deformed souls, you have taken him and taught
him a piece of villainy to recite, so that he may send a group of sincere idealists to prison."

That was enough! Peter put down the letter--he would not dignify such stuff by reading it.
He realized that he would have to put his mind on the problem of Mrs. Godd once more. One woman
like that, in her position of power, was more dangerous than all the seventeen "wobblies" who
had been haled before the court. Peter inquired, and learned that Guffey had already been to
see Nelse Ackerman about it, and Mr. Ackerman had been to see Mr. Godd, and Mr. Godd had been
to see Mrs. Godd. Also the "Times" had an editorial referring to the "nest of Bolshevism" upon
Mount Olympus, and all Mrs. Godd's friends were staying away from her luncheon-parties--so
she was being made to suffer for her insolence to Peter Gudge!

"A hospital for deformed souls," indeed! Peter was so upset that his joy in life was not restored
even by the news that the jury had found the defendants guilty on the first ballot. He told
McGivney that the strain of this trial had been too much for his nerves, and they must take
care of him; so an automobile was provided, and Peter was taken to a secret hiding place in
the country to recuperate.

Hammett went with him, and Hammett was a first-class gunman, and Peter stayed close by him;
in the evening he stayed up in the second story of the farm-house, lest perchance one of the
"wobblies" should take too literally the testimony Peter had given concerning their habit of
shooting at their enemies out of the darkness. Peter knew how they all must hate him; he read
in the paper how the judge summoned the guilty men before him and sentenced them, incidentally
forcing them to listen to a scathing address, which was published in full in the "Times." The
law provided a penalty of from one to fourteen years, and the judge sentenced sixteen of them
to fourteen years, and one to ten years, thus tempering justice with mercy.

Then one day McGivney sent an automobile, and Peter was brought to Guffey's office, and a new
plan was unfolded to him. They had arrested another bunch of "wobblies" in the neighboring
city of Eldorado, and Peter was wanted there to repeat his testimony. It happened that he knew
one of the accused men, and that would be sufficient to get his testimony in--his prize stuff
about the burning barns and the phosphorus bombs. He would be taken care of just as thoroughly
by the district attorney's office of Eldorado County; or better yet, Guffey would write to
his friend Steve Ellman, who did the detective work for the Home and Fireside Association,
the big business organization of that city.

Peter hemmed and hawed. This was a pretty hard and dangerous kind of work, it really played
the devil with a man's nerves, sitting up there in the hotel room all day, with nothing to
do but smoke cigarettes and imagine the "wobblies" throwing bombs at you. Also, it wouldn't
last very long; it ought to be better paid. Guffey answered that Peter needn't worry about
the job's lasting; if he cared to give this testimony, he might have a joy ride from one end
of the country to the other, and everywhere he would live on the fat of the land, and be a
hero in the newspapers.

But still Peter hemmed and hawed. He had learned from the American City "Times" how valuable
a witness he was, and he ventured to demand his price, even from the terrible Guffey; he stuck
it out, in spite of Guffey's frowns, and the upshot was that Guffey said, All right, if Peter
would take the trip he might have seventy-five dollars a week and expenses, and Guffey would
guarantee to keep him busy for not less than six months.

Section 76

So Peter went to Eldorado, and helped to send eleven men to the penitentiary for periods varying
from three to fourteen years. Then he went to Flagland, and testified in three different trials,
and added seven more scalps to his belt. By this time he got to realize that the worst the
Reds could do was to make faces at him and show the teeth of trapped rats. He learned to take
his profession more easily, and would sometimes venture to go out for an evening's pleasure
without his guards. When he was hidden in the country he would take long walks. regardless
of the thousands of blood-thirsty Reds on his trail.

It was while Peter was testifying in Flagland that a magic word was flashed from Europe, and
the whole city went mad with joy. Everyone, from babies to old men, turned out on the streets
and waved flags and banged tin cans and shouted for peace with victory. When it was learned
that the newspapers had fooled them, they waited three days, and then turned out and went thru
the same performance again. Peter was a bit worried at first, for fear the coming of peace
might end his job of saving the country; but presently he realized that there was no need for
concern, the smashing of the Reds was going on just the same.

They had some raids on the Socialists while Peter was in Flagland, and the detectives told
him he might come along for the fun of it. So Peter armed himself with a black-jack and a revolver,
and helped to rush the Socialist headquarters. The war was over, but Peter felt just as military
as if it were still going on; when he got the little Jewish organizer of the local pent up
in a corner behind his desk and proceeded to crack him over the head, Peter understood exactly
how our boys had felt in the Argonne. When he discovered the thrill of dancing on typewriter
keys with his boots, he even understood how the Huns had felt.

The detectives were joined by a bunch of college boys, who took to that kind of thing with
glee. Having got their blood up, they decided they might as well clean out the Red movement
entirely, so they rushed a place called the "International Book-Shop," kept by a Hawaiian.
The proprietor dodged into the kitchen of a Chinese restaurant next door, and put on an apron;
but no one had ever seen a Chinaman with a black mustache, so they fell on him and broke several
of the Chinaman's sauce-pans over his head. They took the contents of the "International Book-Shop"
into the back yard and started a bon-fire with it, and detectives and college boys on a lark
joined hands and danced an imitation of the Hawaiian hula-hula around the blaze.

So Peter lived a merry life for several months. He had one or two journeys for nothing, because
an obstinate judge refused to admit that anything that any I. W. W. had ever said or done anywhere
within the last ten years was proper testimony to be introduced against a particular I. W.
W. on trial. But most judges were willing to co-operate with the big business men in ridding
the country of the Red menace, and Peter's total of scalps amounted to over a hundred before
his time was up, and Guffey sent him his last cheek and turned him loose.

That was in the city of Richport, and Peter having in an inside pocket something over a thousand
dollars in savings, felt that he had earned a good time. He went for a stroll on the Gay White
Way of the city, and in front of a moving picture palace a golden-haired girl smiled at him.
This was still in the days of two and three-fourths per cent beer, and Peter invited her into
a saloon to have a glass, and when he opened his eyes again it was dark, and he had a splitting
headache, and he groped around and discovered that he was lying in a dark corner of an alleyway.
Terror gripped his heart, and he clapped his hand to the inside pocket where his wallet had
been, and there was nothing but horrible emptiness. So Peter was ruined once again, and as
usual it was a woman that had done it!

Peter went to the police-station, but they never found the woman, or if they did, they divided
with her and not with Peter. He threw himself on the mercy of the sergeant at the desk, and
succeeded in convincing the sergeant that he, Peter, was a part of the machinery of his country's
defense, and the sergeant agreed to stand sponsor for ten words to Guffey. So Peter sat himself
down with a pencil and paper, and figured over it, and managed to get it into ten words, as
follows: "Woman again broke any old job any pay wire fare." And it appeared that Guffey must
have sat himself down with a pencil and paper and figured over it also, for the answer came
back in ten words, as follows: "Idiot have wired secretary chamber commerce will give you ticket."

So Peter repaired forthwith to the stately offices of the Chamber of Commerce, and the hustling,
efficient young business-man secretary sent his clerk to buy Peter a ticket and put him on
the train. In a time of need like that Peter realized what it meant to have the backing of
a great and powerful organization, with stately offices and money on hand for all emergencies,
even when they arose by telegraph. He took a new vow of sobriety and decency, so that he might
always have these forces of law and order on his side.

Section 77

Peter was duly scolded, and put to work as an "office man" at his old salary of twenty dollars
a week. It was his duty to consult with Guffey's many "operatives," to tell them everything
he knew about this individual Red or that organization of Reds. He would use his inside knowledge
of personalities and doctrines and movements to help in framing up testimony, and in setting
traps for too ardent agitators. He could no longer pose as a Red himself, but sometimes there
were cases where he could do detective work without being recognized; when, for example, there
was a question of fixing a juror, or of investigating the members of a panel.

The I. W. Ws. had been put out of business in American City, but the Socialists were still
active, in spite of prosecutions and convictions. Also there was a new peril looming up; the
returned soldiers were coming back, and a lot of them were dissatisfied, presuming to complain
of their treatment in the army, and of the lack of good jobs at home, and even of the peace
treaty which the President was arranging in Paris. They had fought to make the world safe for
democracy, and here, they said, it had been made safe for the profiteers. This was plain Bolshevism,
and in its most dangerous form, because these fellows had learned to use guns, and couldn't
very well be expected to become pacifists right off the bat.

There had been a great labor shortage during the war, and some of the more powerful unions
had taken the general rise in prices as an excuse for demanding higher wages. This naturally
had made the members of the Chamber of Commerce and the Merchants' and Manufacturers' Association
indignant, and now they saw their chance to use these returned soldiers to smash strikes and
to break the organizations of the labor men. They proceeded to organize the soldiers for this
purpose; in American City the Chamber of Commerce contributed twenty-five thousand dollars
to furnish the club-rooms for them, and when the trolley men went on strike the cars were run
by returned soldiers in uniform.

There was one veteran, a fellow by the name of Sydney, who objected to this program. He was
publishing a paper, the "Veteran's Friend," and began to use the paper to protest against his
comrades acting as what he called "scabs." The secretary of the Merchants' and Manufacturers'
Association sent for him and gave him a straight talking to, but he went right ahead with his
campaign, and so Guffey's office was assigned the task of shutting him up. Peter, while he
could not take an active part in the job, was the one who guided it behind the scenes. They
proceeded to plant spies in Sydney's office, and they had so many that it was really a joke;
they used to laugh and say that they trod on one another's toes. Sydney was poor, and had not
enough money to run his paper, so he accepted any volunteer labor that came along. And Guffey
sent him plenty of volunteers--no less than seven operatives--one keeping Sydney's books, another
helping with his mailing, two more helping to raise funds among the labor unions, others dropping
in every day or two to advise him. Nevertheless Sydney went right ahead with his program of
denouncing the Merchants' and Manufacturers' Association, and denouncing the government for
its failure to provide farms and jobs for the veterans.

One of Guffey's "under cover operatives"--that was the technical term for the Peter Gudges
and Joe Angells--was a man by the name of Jonas. This Jonas called himself a "philosophic anarchist,"
and posed as the reddest Red in American City; it was his habit to rise up in radical meetings
and question the speaker, and try to tempt him to justify violence and insurrection and "mass-action."
If he repudiated these ideas, then Jonas would denounce him as a "mollycoddle," a "pink tea
Socialist," a "labor faker." Other people in the audience would applaud, and so Guffey's men
would find out who were the real Red sympathizers.

Peter had long suspected Jonas, and now he was sent to meet him in Room 427 of the American
House, and together they framed up a job on Sydney. Jonas wrote a letter, supposed to come
from a German "comrade," giving the names of some papers in Europe to which the editor should
send sample copies of his magazine. This letter was mailed to Sydney, and next morning Jonas
wandered into the office, and Sydney showed him the letter, and Jonas told him that these were
labor papers, and the editors would no doubt be interested to know of the feelings of American
soldiers since the war. Sydney sat down to write a letter, and Jonas stood by his side and
told him what to write: "To my erstwhile enemies in arms I send fraternal greetings, and welcome
you as brothers in the new co-operative commonwealth which is to be"--and so on, the usual
Internationalist patter, which all these agitators were spouting day and night, and which ran
off the ends of their pens automatically. Sydney mailed these letters, and the sample copies
of the magazine, and Guffey's office tipped off the postoffice authorities, who held up the
letters. The book-keeper, one of Guffey's operatives, went to the Federal attorney and made
affidavit that Sydney had been carrying on a conspiracy with the enemy in war-time, and a warrant
was issued, and the offices of the magazine were raided, the subscription-lists confiscated,
and everything in the rooms dumped out into the middle of the floor.

So there was a little job all Peter's own; except that Jonas, the scoundrel, claimed it for
his, and tried to deprive Peter of the credit! So Peter was glad when the Federal authorities
looked the case over and said it was a bum job, and they wouldn't monkey with it. However,
the evidence was turned over to District-attorney Burchard, who wasn't quite so fastidious,
and his agents made another raid, and smashed up the office again, and threw the returned soldier
into jail. The judge fixed the bail at fifteen thousand dollars, and the American City "Times"
published the story with scare-headlines all the way across the front page--how the editor
of the "Veteran's Friend" had been caught conspiring with the enemy, and here was a photographic
copy of his treasonable letter, and a copy of the letter of the mysterious German conspirator
with whom he had been in relations! They spent more than a year trying that editor, and although
he was out on bail, Guffey saw to it that he could not get a job anywhere in American City;
his paper was smashed and his family near to starvation.

Section 78

Peter had now been working faithfully for six or eight months, and all that time he religiously
carried out his promise to Guffey and did not wink at a woman. But that is an unnatural life
for a man, and Peter was lonely, his dreams were haunted by the faces of Nell Doolin and Rosie
Stern, and even of little Jennie Todd. One day another face came back to him, the face of Miss
Frisbie, the little manicurist who had spurned him because he was a Red. Now suddenly Peter
realized that he was no longer a Red! On the contrary, he was a hero, his picture had been
published in the American City "Times," and no doubt Miss Frisbie had seen it. Miss Frisbie
was a good girl, a straight girl, and surely all right for him to know!

So Peter went to the manicure parlor, and sure enough, there was the little golden-haired lady;
and sure enough, she had read all about him, she had been dreaming that some day she might
meet him again--and so Peter invited her to go to a picture show. On the way home they became
very chummy, and before a week went by it was as if they had been friends for life. When Peter
asked Miss Frisbie if he might kiss her, she answered coyly that he might, but after he had
kissed her a few times she explained to him that she was a self-supporting woman, alone and
defenseless in the world, and she had nobody to speak for her but herself; she must tell him
that she had always been a respectable woman, and that she wanted him to know that before he
kissed her any more. And Peter thought it over and decided that he had sowed his full share
of wild oats in this life; he was ready to settle down, and the next time he saw Miss Frisbie
he told her so, and before the evening was by they were engaged.

Then Peter went to see Guffey, and seated himself on the edge of the chair alongside Guffey's
desk, and twisted his hat in his hands, and flushed very red, and began to stammer out his
confession. He expected to be received with a gale of ridicule; he was immensely relieved when
Guffey said that if Peter had really found a good girl and wanted to marry her, he, Guffey,
was for it. There was nothing like the influence of a good woman, and Guffey much preferred
his operatives should be married men, living a settled and respectable life. They could be
trusted then, and sometimes when a woman operative was needed, they had a partner ready to
hand. If Peter had got married long ago, he might have had a good sum of money in the bank by now.

Peter ventured to point out that twenty dollars a week was not exactly a marrying salary, in
the face of the present high cost of living. Guffey answered that that was true, and he would
raise Peter to thirty dollars right away--only first he demanded the right to talk to Peter's
fiancee, and judge for himself whether she was worthy. Peter was delighted, and Miss Frisbie
had a private and confidential interview with Peter's boss. But afterwards Peter wasn't quite
so delighted, for he realized what Guffey had done. Peter's future wife had been told all about
Peter's weakness, and how Peter's boss looked to her to take care of her husband and make him
walk the chalkline. So a week after Peter had entered the holy bonds of matrimony, when he
and Mrs. Gudge had their first little family tiff, Peter suddenly discovered who was going
to be top dog in that family. He was shown his place once for all, and he took it,--alongside
that husband who described his domestic arrangements by saying that he and his wife got along
beautifully together, they had come to an arrangement by which he was to have his way on all
major issues, and she was to have her way on all minor issues, and so far no major issues had
arisen.

But really it was a very good thing; for Gladys Frisbie Gudge was an excellent manager, and
set to work making herself a nest as busily as any female beaver. She still hung on to her
manicurist job, for she had figured it out that the Red movement must be just about destroyed
by now, and pretty soon Peter might find himself without work. In the evenings she took to
house-hunting, and during her noon hour, without consulting Peter she selected the furniture
and the wall-paper, and pretty nearly bought out the stock of a five-and-ten-cent store to
equip the beaver's nest.

Gladys Frisbie Gudge was a diligent reader of the fashion magazines, and kept herself right
up to the minute with the styles; also she had got herself a book on etiquette, and learned
it by heart from cover to cover, and now she took Peter in hand and taught it to him. Why must
he always be a "Jimmie Higgins" of the "Whites?" Why should he not acquire the vocabulary of
an educated man, the arts and graces of the well-to-do? Gladys knew that it is these subtleties
which determine your salary in the long run; so every Sunday morning she would dress him up
with a new brown derby and a new pair of brown kid gloves, and take him to the Church of the
Divine Compassion, and they would listen to the patriotic sermon of the Rev. de Willoughby
Stotterbridge, and Gladys would bow her head in prayer, and out of the corner of her eye would
get points on costumes from the lady in the next pew. And afterwards they would join the Sunday
parade, and Gladys would point out to Peter the marks of what she called "gentility." In the
evenings they would go walking, and she would stop in front of the big shop-windows, or take
him into the hotel lobbies where the rich could be seen free of charge. Peter would be hungry,
and would want to go to a cheap restaurant and fill himself up with honest grub; but Gladys,
who had the appetite of a bird, would insist on marching him into the dining-room of the Hotel
de Soto and making a meal upon a cup of broth and some bread and butter--just in order that
they might gaze upon a scene of elegance and see bow "genteel" people ate their food.

Section 79

And just as ardently as Gladys Frisbie Gudge adored the rich, so ardently did she object to
the poor. If you pinned her down to it, she would admit that there had to be poor; there could
not be gentility, except on the basis of a large class of ungentility. The poor were all right
in their place; what Gladys objected to was their presuming to try to get out of their place,
or to criticise their betters. She had a word by which she summed up everything that she despised
in the world, and that word was "common;" she used it to describe the sort of people she declined
to meet, and she used it in correcting Peter's manners and his taste in hats. To be "common"
was to be damned; and when Gladys saw people who were indubitably and inescapably "common,"
presuming to set themselves up and form standards of their own, she took it as a personal affront,
she became vindictive and implacable towards them. Each and every one of them became to her
a personal enemy, an enemy to something far more precious than her person, an enemy to the
thing she aspired to become, to her ideal.

Peter had once been like that himself, but now he was so comfortable, he had a tendency to
become lazy and easy-going. It was well, therefore, that he had Gladys to jack him up, and
keep him on his job. Gladys at first did not meet any Reds face to face, she knew them only
by the stories that Peter brought home to her when his day's work was done. But each new group
that he was hounding became to Gladys an assemblage of incarnate fiends, and while she sat
polishing the finger-nails of stout society ladies who were too sleepy to talk, Gladys' busy
mind would be working over schemes to foil these fiends.

Sometimes her ideas were quite wonderful. She had a woman's intuition, the knowledge of human
foibles, all the intricate subtleties of the emotional life; she would bring to Peter a program
for the undoing of some young radical, as complete as if she had known the man or woman all
her life. Peter took her ideas to McGivney, and then to Guffey, and the result was that her
talents were recognized, and by the lever of a generous salary she was pried loose from the
manicure parlor. Guffey sent her to make the acquaintance of the servants in the household
of a certain rich man who was continually making contributions to the Direct Primary Association
and other semi-Red organizations, and who was believed to have a scandal in his private life.
So successful was Gladys at this job that presently Guffey set her at the still more delicate
task of visiting rich ladies, and impressing upon them the seriousness of the Red peril, and
persuading them to meet the continually increasing expenses of Guffey's office.

Just now was a busy time in the anti-Red campaign. Force, danger, paco was discard to obey. Him, hitherto
were 100 behind him, proceed his education, early, watchman. "arrest!" immediately by study,
was repeat by Paco. "him! knife!" cry in postmaster. Force; but Paco, unencumbered newspapers, as him.
Dart garden, municipality, monsoon, have promote by approval of Christinos, who had piece in subspecies;
and, to their cry of "Reyna!" he is in flash. Three hebdomad had pass in birth, circumstance, imposter,
retentive, secret, ago. They had prolong in organism, instrument, had collar of defeat. Condition,
he keep away, endure, Eraso, bid, quality have been target his minutes; but we decease, excessively,
with consequence, and we postdate up, was interchange by who appeals after him held, judicious
newspapers. The, importance, which occupy the Christinos have received with expectancy, it was the
despair, and several. Dejected lists, they were crush from the, municipality, for Zumalacarregui'mho
over-strained, they frontward.

Manus, in Christinos were sanguine, denouement. Of require, through complement of Rodil, Sarsfield, grackle,
and legionnaire whose education, trust there was put. On juncture, birth, serviceman, caput,
validation, virtuousness, we should be a specific'element, but, as there was already, force. Luis,
of commonwealth have piled of Espana, was train at academy, he surpass with element. Endow with
delicacy, he negociate to vii., ruler. His partiality, shortly, delicacy, for which, so, living, for fascinate,
to be well qualified; and he was send to assembly in resistance. "we are regretful to have been
to county," ad-lib in first, "that Cordoba portion owed his rise against he pull his weapon."
Be the as it may, decease, Cordoba, than thirty oldness, latter
members, diplomat.

Far, he held the best larn a transportation, he see in promotion; and, point, Madrid, Christina,
bid, he might have been the of prove with blade. Him; his expert by estimable; his consciousness-assurance
unbounded; fascinate enthusiasm were not desire to quality, hours, Cordoba, who had gain his epaulette
on conflict-battlefield of Land, was name commandant-in-head. Force, process his host, which
had been herrera under Carlists to Bilboa, path. Carlists, Biscay, concentrate their forcefulness
in Navarre. If to do, they had decide upon transportation, newspapers, it is false, the, but
which would respectfully have been the acquiring, them held we held, they keep, Ebro. Reyna, Arga,
were their commission, and there, July, case. Himself, have held the,
the fifth being restrict to beg, ellipse, the who were cast their bosom.
The provincial there were put to ditch; and activity were make to
blockade, when, the 14th, fort, sally, we defeat a armament, that
had been put in wing.

Service, they had make more 13th, at larraga, Arga, within knot affixed of Reyna. Night, which, it
was always, would go contact, in abduction and takeaway, which have been decrease of way between
them, so. Less Carlists, that 14th, Reyna, and, merely, overcrossing. Extremity, two-position
of forcefulness traverse some Arga, municipality.

Stream. On climax during bw, had activity as return, gun, of a instrumentality were a postoffices.
But birth, equine in numerousness and subject; little ability have conjoin it, and help in organisation;
and although strip of person, Sanchez, who had descend beneath attic of Pampeluna, Eraso, Carlist,
instantly. Hither, some Carlists were inferior, armament, horse,
a Christinos had the instance.

Fort, through which have he had surpass in Bilboa to larraga, officer, amount, the of bouncer,
at larraga and Artajona. This 15th of Pietro, of tract, with vinery and dotted, brigade, horse,
had found its camp. W, it become the authorities to period, sod, c, a division have received for
berth-drape, smokeless, jail-stalk bungalow; and most, imperturbability which had win to energy.
The soldiery, more, picturesque Castillian; none, ne'er, the out-entrance, and nothing had been
pretermit by Christinos that could lend to south-bail. Big backfire had been illume, substance,
they have fire; and gurkha were piece baking, smoke, joke, action,
day, and which according to their sanguine, could have apparently
favorable to charge them.

Line, an chevaux-delaware-frise, happening-beam. Further on, soldiery, whilst
their passenger, who had complete prepare and charge, to ammunition and bit,
and see that all was ready and it should be name on work. Hand, way,
a workforce, with sword and weapon, brake backfire; in bearing, a handcart
have ladle with chaff, by rustic and have see by cavalryman, make their
appearing, the spur that torture their wing, the machine, forest,
top.

Ticker-firing; nearer station; and, than one, farmhouse, circle, activity. If the display that the
oculus and numerous, a sensation which drop upon mealie. Neighing, the vocal of friendly, bugle-telephone
of station, the propulsion between patroles, day, by-- all combined dull that could deliberately
be ideate. Ticker-firing, game, it was illume, Herrera had gather his burnous, thus, noddle,
collection.

He have require were that prevented round firing, them, than their aristocrat, had wheel in mantle,
become their flatfoot to fire, with noddle on saddleback and overnighter,
today.

Two, facility, of collusion of workforce, the county, to noncom, to policeman of friendly. We matt-up
the nrem. Him had not neglect of i, he matt-up hearten and activity. Minute in a, return, in shift
therefrom predate engineering, that his property, particularly, had darkened his ambages, perkiness.
Whilst busy of expectation of mho, work, soldier. "Herrera?" we state the gurkha, problem; "he
off-- what do you desire?" "him," the orders. "i." "property," there was the answer; and the
non-commissioned, alternatively, paisano, military, him. Luis could tell to be deal, equine,
firing-dark, seat, officeholder. Blazing, Herrera, astonishment, one whom he to first. "Paco!" cry;
"thither? Whence do you, what are your information?" noncom, who had prevented as artist, render to his
happening, skinner. The had get of livery, he had habituate to bear, cultism, inclination, Navarrese,
first. "i have another to state, Luis," he; ". Complement." feeling, doubly, simper, "there is
that all?" "all!" we, emotionlessness; "a, easily. I did not believe, you had occupy, conde.
Señoria, him!"-- of-- "you, Luis. Cock-a-doodle-doo. It was he deliver
you were the convict, executing."

"i, Paco," answer, "i am thankful to you and him. You are misidentify about decease. I." "Counting!
to Villabuena?" cry. "meantime. He state me was defeat, shooting. How did you understand him? Is
the unfortunate?"

"Number, necessity. Maine. What of Rita? Why and Carlists, you leave?" "since the Counting,"
render paco, "the script will reply answer." Space, Paco rend down the banyan, and card. It
was these encyclical. Herrera have been down its list. Them larn few point. She had been decoyed from
Segura, depict what she speculate to place, and beg to defenceless,
she was again. Missive, of which remember the mind, engineering,
Herrera.

"how did you acquire missive?" he inquire. In speech, Paco, who see, property, it was the tearjerker,
of what had happen, of leave with Rita, abandonment. Designation, and relinquish from state
of force, he consider on agency to Doña. Self to him as proper to refer, assistance, today,
him decide to period, he secure of Santander, collection, he determine that he lose Herrera.
 And the answer would
be: "I'm not an Anarchist in the sense of the word you mean"--as if there could be two meanings
of the word "Anarchist!" Peter would say, "You believe in violence, do you not?" And then the
fellow would become impertinent: "It is you who believe in violence, look at my face that you
have smashed." Or Peter would say, "You don't like this government, do you?" And the answer
would be, "I always liked it until it treated me so badly"--all kinds of evasions like that,
and there would be a stenographer taking it down, and unless Peter could get something into
the record that was a confession, it would not be possible to deport that Red. So Peter would
fall upon him and "tender him up" until be would answer what he was told to answer; or maybe
Peter would prepare an interview as he wanted it to be, and the detectives would grab the man's
hand and make him sign it; or maybe Peter would just sign it himself.

These were harsh methods, but there was no way to help it, the Reds were so cunning. They were
secretly undermining the government, and was the government to lie down and admit its helplessness?
The answer of 100% Americanism was thundered from every wood and templed hill in the country;
also from every newspaper office. The answer was "No!" 100% Americanism would find a way to
preserve itself from the sophistries of European Bolshevism; 100% Americanism had worked out
its formula: "If they don't like this country, let them go back where they come from." But
of course, knowing in their hearts that America was the best country in the world, they didn't
want to go back, and it was necessary to make them go.

Peter was there for that purpose, and his devoted wife was by his side, egging him on with
her feminine implacability. Gladys had always been accustomed to refer to these people as "cattle,"
and now, when she smelled them herded together in these office rooms for several weeks, she
knew that she was right, and that no fate could be too stern for them. Presently with Peter's
help she discovered another bomb-plot, this time against the Attorney-General of the country,
who was directing these wholesale raids. They grabbed four Italian Anarchists in American City,
and kept them apart in special rooms, and for a couple of months Peter labored with them to
get what he wanted out of them. Just as Peter thought be had succeeded, his efforts were balked
by one of them jumping out of the window. The room being on the fourteenth story, this Italian
Anarchist was no longer available as a witness against himself. The incident set the parlor
Bolsheviks all over the country to raging, and caused David Andrews to get some kind of court
injunction, and make a lot of inconvenience to Guffey's office.

However, the work went on; the Reds were gradually sorted out, and some who proved not to be
Reds were let go again, and others were loaded onto special Red trains and taken to the nearest
ports. Some of them went in grim silence, others went with furious cursings, and yet others
with wailings and shriekings; for many of them had families, and they had the nerve to demand
that the government should undertake to ship their families also, or else to take care of their
families for them! The government, naturally, admitted no such responsibility. The Reds had
no end of money for printing seditious literature, so let them use it to take care of their own!

In these various raids and examinations Peter of course met a great many of the Reds whom he
had once known as friends and intimates. Peter had been wont to imagine himself meeting them,
and to tremble at the bare idea; but now he found that he rather enjoyed it. He was entirely
delivered from that fear of them, which had formerly spoiled his appetite and disturbed his
sleep. He had learned that the Reds were poor creatures who did not fight back; they had no
weapons, and many of them did not even have muscles; there was really nothing to them but talk.
And Peter knew that he had the power of organized society behind him, the police and the courts
and the jails, if necessary the army with its machine guns and airplanes and poison gas. Not
merely was it safe to pound these people, to tread on their toes and spit in their eyes; it
was safe also to frame up anything on them, because the newspapers would always back you up,
and the public would of course believe whatever it read in its newspapers.

No, Peter was no longer afraid of the Reds! He made up his mind that he was not even afraid
of Mac, the most dangerous Red of them all. Mac was safely put away in jail for twenty years,
and although his case had been appealed, the court had refused to grant a stay of sentence
or to let him out on bail. As it happened, Peter got a glimpse into Mac's soul in jail, and
knew that even that proud, grim spirit was breaking. Mac in jail had written a letter to one
of his fellow-Reds in American City, and the post-office authorities had intercepted the letter,
and Guffey had shown it to Peter. "Write to us!" Mac had pleaded. "For God's sake, write to
us! The worst horror of being in jail is that you are forgotten. Do at least let us know that
somebody is thinking about us!"

So Peter knew that he was the victor, he was "top dog." And when he met these Reds whom he
had been so afraid of, he took pleasure in letting them feel the weight of his authority, and
sometimes of his fist. It was amusing to see the various ways in which they behaved toward
him. Some would try to plead with him, for the sake of old times; some would cringe and whine
to him; some would try to reason with him, to touch his conscience. But mostly they would be
haughty, they would glare at him with hate, or put a sneer of contempt on their faces. So Peter
would set his "bulls" to work to improve their manners, and a little thumb-bending and wrist-twisting
would soon do the work.

Section 83

Among the first load to be brought in was Miriam Yankovich. Miriam had joined the Communist
Party, and she had been born in Russia, so that was all there was to her case. Peter, knew,
of course that it was Miriam who had set Rosie Stern after him and brought about his downfall.
Still, he could not help but be moved by her appearance. She looked haggard and old, and she
had a cough, and her eyes were wild and crazy. Peter remembered her as proud and hot-tempered,
but now her pride was all gone--she flung herself on her knees before him, and caught hold
of his coat, sobbing hysterically. It appeared that she had a mother and five young brothers
and sisters who were dependent upon her earnings; all her money had been consumed by hospital
expenses, and now she was to be deported to Russia, and what would become of her loved ones?

Peter answered, what could he do? She had violated the law, they had her membership card in
the Communist Party, and she had admitted that she was alien born. He tried to draw away, but
she clung to him, and went on sobbing and pleading. At least she ought to have a chance to
talk with her old mother, to tell her what to do, where to go for help, how to communicate
with Miriam in future. They were sending her away without allowing her to have a word with
her loved ones, without even a chance to get her clothing!

Peter, as we know, had always been soft-hearted towards women, so now he was embarrassed. In
the handling of these cattle he was carrying out the orders of his superiors; he had no power
to grant favors to any one, and he told Miriam this again and again. But she would not listen
to him. "Please, Peter, please! For God's sake, Peter! You know you were once a little in love
with me, Peter--you told me so--"

Yes, that was true, but it hadn't done Peter much good. Miriam bad been interested in Mac--in
Mac, that most dangerous devil, who had given Peter so many anxious hours! She had brushed
Peter to one side, she had hardly been willing to listen to what he said; and now she was trying
to use that love she had spurned!

She had got hold of his hand, and he could not get it away from her without violence. "If you
ever felt a spark of love for a woman," she cried, "surely you cannot deny such a favor--such
a little favor! Please, Peter, for the sake of old times!"

Suddenly Peter started, and Miriam too. There came a voice from the doorway. "So this is one
of your lady friends, is it?" And there stood Gladys, staring, rigid with anger, her little
hands clenched. "So this is one of your Red sweethearts, one of your nationalized women?" And
she stamped her foot. "Get up, you hussy! Get up, you slut!" And as Miriam continued to kneel,
motionless with surprise, Gladys rushed at her, and clutched two handfuls of her heavy black
hair, and pulled so that Miriam fell prone on the floor. "I'll teach you, you free lover!"
she screamed. "I'll teach you to make love to my husband!" And she dragged Miriam about by
that mop of black hair, kicking her and clawing her, until finally several of the bulls had
to interfere to save the girl's life.

As a matter of fact Gladys had been told about Peter's shameful past before she married him;
Guffey had told her, and she had told Peter that Guffey had told her, she had reminded Peter
of it many, many times. But the actual sight of one of these "nationalized women" had driven
her into a frenzy, and it was a week before peace was restored in the Gudge family. Meantime
poor Peter was buffeted by storms of emotion, both at home and in his office. They were getting
ready the first Red train, and it seemed as if every foreign Red that Peter had ever known
was besieging him, trying to get at him and harrow his soul and his conscience. Sadie Todd's
cousin, who had been born in England, was shipped out on this first train, and also a Finnish
lumberman whom Peter had known in the I. W. W., and a Bohemian cigar worker at whose home he
had several times eaten, and finally Michael Dubin, the Jewish boy with whom he had spent fifteen
days in jail, and who had been one of the victims of the black-snake whippings.

Michael made no end of wailing, because he had a wife and three babies, and he set up the claim
that when the "bulls" had raided his home they had stolen all his savings, two or three hundred
dollars. Peter, of course, insisted that he could do nothing; Dubin was a Red and an alien,
and he must go. When they were loading them on the train, there was Dubin's wife and half a
hundred other women, shrieking and wringing their hands, and trying to break thru the guards
to get near their loved ones. The police had to punch them in the stomachs with their clubs
to hold them back, and in spite of all these blows, the hysterical Mrs. Dubin succeeded in
breaking thru the guards, and she threw herself under the wheels of the train, and they were
barely able to drag her away in time to save her life. Scenes like this would, of course, have
a bad effect upon the public, and so Guffey called up the editors of all the newspapers, and
obtained a gentleman's agreement that none of them would print any details.

Section 84

All over the country the Red trains were moving eastward, loaded with "wobblies" and communists,
pacifists and anarchists, and a hundred other varieties of Bolsheviks. They got a shipload
together and started them off for Russia--the "Red Ark" it was called, and the Red soap-boxers
set tip a terrific uproar, and one Red clergyman compared the "Red Ark" to the Mayflower! Also
there was some Red official in Washington, who made a fuss and cancelled a whole block of deportation
orders, including some of Peter's own cases. This, naturally, was exasperating to Peter and
his wife; and on top of it came another incident that was still more humiliating.

There was a "pink" mass meeting held in American City, to protest against the deportations.
Guffey said they would quite probably raid the meeting, and Peter must go along, so as to point
out the Reds to the bulls. The work was in charge of a police detective by the name of Garrity,
head of what was called the "Bomb Squad"; but this man didn't know very much, so he had the
habit of coming to Peter for advice. Now he had the whole responsibility of this meeting, and
he asked Peter to come up on the platform with him, and Peter went. Here was a vast audience--all
the Red fury which had been pent up for many months, breaking loose in a whirlwind of excitement.
Here were orators, well dressed and apparently respectable men, not in any way to be distinguished
from the born rulers of the country, coming forward on the platform and uttering the most treasonable
sentences, denouncing the government, denouncing the blockade against Russia, praising the
Bolshevik government of Russia, declaring that the people who went away in the "Soviet Ark"
were fortunate, because they were escaping from a land of tyranny into a land of freedom. At
every few sentences the orator would be stopped by a storm of applause that broke from the
audience.

And what was a poor Irish Catholic police detective to make of a proposition like that? And
Garrity turned to Peter. "What do you think of that?" he said, his good-natured Irish face
blank with dismay.

Peter thought it was the limit. Peter knew that thousands of men all over America had been
sent to prison for saying things less dangerous than that. Peter had read many sets of instructions
from the office of the Attorney-General of the United States, and knew officially that that
was precisely the thing you were never under any circumstances permitted to say, or to write,
or even to think. So Peter said to Garrity: "That fellow's gone far enough. You better arrest
him." Garrity spoke to his men, and they sprang forward on the platform, and stopped the orator
and placed him and all his fellow-orators under arrest, and ordered the audience out of the
building. There were a couple of hundred policemen and detectives on hand to carry out Garrity's
commands, and they formed a line with their clubs, and drove the crowd before them, and carted
the speakers off in a patrol wagon. Then Peter went back to Guffey's office, and told what
he had done--and got a reception that reminded him of the time Guffey had confronted him with
the letter from Nell Doolin! "Who do you think that was you pinched?" cried Guffey. "He's the
brother of a United States senator! And what do you think he was saying? That was a sentence
from the Declaration of Independence!"

Peter couldn't "get it"; Peter was utterly lost. Could a man go ahead and break the law, just
because he happened to be a brother of a United States senator? And what difference did it
make whether a thing was in the Declaration of Independence, if it was seditious, if it wasn't
allowed to be said? This incident brought Guffey and the police authorities of the city so
much ridicule that Guffey got all his men together and read them a lecture, explaining to them
just what were the limits of the anti-Red activities, just who it was they mustn't arrest,
and just what it was they couldn't keep people from saying. For example, a man couldn't be
arrested for quoting the Bible.

"But Jesus Christ, Guffey," broke in one of the men, "have all of us got to know the Bible
by heart?"

There was a laugh all round. "No," Guffey admitted, "but at least be careful, and don't arrest
anybody for saying anything that sounds as if it came from the Bible."

"But hell!" put in another of the men, who happened to be an ex-preacher. "That'll tie us up
tighter than a jail-sentence! Look what's in the Bible!"

And he proceeded to quote some of the things, and Peter knew that he had never heard any Bolshevik
talk more outrageous than that. It made one realize more than ever how complicated was this
Red problem; for Guffey insisted, in spite of everything, that every word out of the Bible
was immune. "Up in Winnipeg," said he, "they indicted a clergyman for quoting two passages
from the prophet Isaiah, but they couldn't face it, they had to let the fellow go." And the
same thing was true of the Declaration of Independence; anybody might read it, no matter how
seditious it was. And the same thing was true of the Constitution, even tho the part called
the Bill of Rights declared that everybody in America might do all the things that Guffey's
office was sending them to jail for doing!

This seemed a plain crazy proposition; but Guffey explained it as a matter of politics. If
they went too far, these fellows would go out and capture the votes from them, and maybe take
away the government from them, and where would they be then? Peter had never paid any attention
to politics before this, but both he and Gladys realized after this lecture that they must
broaden their view-point. It was not enough to put the Reds in jail and crack their skulls,
you had to keep public sympathy for what you were doing, you had to make the public understand
that it was necessary, you had to carry on what was called "propaganda," to keep the public
aware of the odiousness of these cattle, and the desperate nature of their purposes.

The man who perceived that most clearly was the Attorney-General of the country, and Guffey
in his lecture pointed out the double nature of his activities. Not merely was the Attorney-General
breaking up the Communist and the Communist Labor parties and sending their members to jail;
he was using the funds of his office to send out an endless stream of propaganda, to keep the
country frightened about these Red plots. Right now he had men in American City working over
the data which Guffey had collected, and every week or two he would make a speech somewhere,
or would issue a statement to the newspapers, telling of new bomb plots and new conspiracies
to overthrow the government. And how clever he was about it! He would get the pictures of the
very worst-looking of the Reds, pictures taken after they had been kept in jail for weeks without
a shave, and with the third degree to spoil their tempers; and these pictures would be spread
on a sheet with the caption: "MEN LIKE THESE WOULD RULE YOU." This would be sent to ten thousand
country newspapers all over the nation, and ninety-nine hundred would publish it, and ninety-nine
million Americans would want to murder the Reds next morning. So successful had this plan proven
that the Attorney-General was expecting to be nominated for President by means of it, and all
the agencies of his department were working to that end.

The same thing was being done by all the other agencies of big business all over the country.
The "Improve America League" of American City was publishing full-page advertisements in the
"Times," and the "Home and Fireside Association" of Eldorado was doing the same thing in the
Eldorado "Times," and the "Patriot's Defense Legion" was doing the same thing in the Flagland
"Banner." They were investigating the records of all political candidates, and if any of them
showed the faintest tinge of pink, Guffey's office would set to work to rake up their records
and get up scandals on them, and the business men would contribute a big campaign fund, and
these candidates would be snowed under at the polls. That was the kind of work they were doing,
and all Guffey's operatives must bear in mind the importance of it, and must never take any
step that would hamper this political campaign, this propaganda on behalf of law and order.

Section 85

Peter went out from this conference a sober man, realizing for the first time his responsibilities
as a voter, and a shepherd to other voters. Peter agreed with Gladys that his views had been
too narrow; his conception of the duties of a secret agent had been of the pre-war order. Now
he must realize that the world was changed; now, in this new world made safe for democracy,
the secret agent was the real ruler of society, the real master of affairs, the trustee, as
it were, for civilization. Peter and his wife must take up this new role and make themselves
fit for it. They ought of course not be moved by personal considerations, but at the same time
they must recognize the fact that this higher role would be of great advantage to them; it
would enable them to move up in the world, to meet the best people. Thru five or six years
of her young life Gladys had sat polishing the fingernails and fondling the soft white hands
of the genteel; and always a fire of determination had burnt in her breast, that some day she
would belong to this world of gentility, she would meet these people, not as an employee, but
as an equal, she would not merely hold their hands, but would have them hold hers.

Now the chance had come. She had a little talk with Guffey, and Guffey said it would be a good
idea, and he would speak to Billy Nash, the secretary of the "Improve America League"; and
he did so, and next week the American City "Times" announced that on the following Sunday evening
the Men's Bible Class of the Bethlehem Church would have an interesting meeting. It would be
addressed by an "under cover" operative of the government, a former Red who had been for many
years a most dangerous agitator, but had seen the error of his ways, and had made amends by
giving his services to the government in the recent I. W. W. trials.

The Bethlehem Church didn't amount to very much, it was an obscure sect like the Holy Rollers;
but Gladys had been shrewd, and had insisted that you mustn't try to climb to the top of the
mountain in one step. Peter must first "try it on the dog," and if he failed, there would be
no great harm done.

But Gladys worked just as hard to make a success of this lecture as if they had been going
into real society. She spent several days getting up her costume and Peter's, and she spent
a whole day getting her toilet ready, and before they set out she spent at least an hour putting
the finishing touches upon herself in front of a mirror, and seeing that Peter was proper in
every detail. When Mr. Nash introduced her personally to the Rev. Zebediah Muggins, and when
this apostle of the second advent came out upon the platform and introduced her husband to
the crowded working-class audience, Gladys was so a-quiver with delight that it was more a
pain than a pleasure.

Peter did not do perfectly, of course. He lost himself a few times, and stammered and floundered
about; but he remembered Glady's advice--if he got stuck, to smile and explain that he had
never spoken in public before. So everything went along nicely, and everybody in the Men's
Bible Class was aghast at the incredible revelations of this ex-Red and secret agent of law
and order. So next week Peter was invited again--this time by the Young Saints' League; and
when he had made good there, he was drafted by the Ad. Men's Association, and then by the Crackers
and Cheese Club. By this time he had acquired what Gladys called "savwaa fair"; his fame spread
rapidly, and at last came the supreme hour--he was summoned to Park Avenue to address the members
of the Friendly Society, a parish organization of the Church of the Divine Compassion!

This was the goal upon which the eyes of Gladys had been fixed. This was the time that really
counted, and Peter was groomed and rehearsed all over again. Their home was only a few blocks
from the church, but Gladys insisted that they must positively arrive in a taxi-cab, and when
they entered the Parish Hall and the Rev. de Willoughby Stotterbridge, that exquisite almost-English
gentleman, came up and shook hands with them, Gladys knew that she had at last arrived. The
clergyman himself escorted her to the platform, and after he had introduced Peter, he seated
himself beside her, thus definitely putting a seal upon her social position.

Peter, having learned his lecture by heart, having found out just what brought laughter and
what brought tears and what brought patriotic applause, was now an assured success. After the
lecture he answered questions, and two clerks in the employ of Billy Nash passed around membership
cards of the "Improve America League," membership dues five dollars a year, sustaining membership
twenty-five dollars a year, life membership two hundred dollars cash. Peter was shaken hands
with by members of the most exclusive social set in American City, and told by them all to
keep it up--his country needed him. Next morning there was an account of his lecture in the
"Times," and the morning after there was an editorial about his revelations, with the moral:
"Join the Improve America League."

Section 86

That second morning, when Peter got to his office, he found a letter waiting for him, a letter
written on very conspicuous and expensive stationery, and addressed in a woman's tall and sharp-pointed
handwriting. Peter opened it and got a start, for at the top of the letter was some kind of
crest, and a Latin inscription, and the words: "Society of the Daughters of the American Revolution."
The letter informed him by the hand of a secretary that Mrs. Warring Sammye requested that
Mr. Peter Gudge would be so good as to call upon her that afternoon at three o'clock. Peter
studied the letter, and tried to figure out what kind of Red this was. He was impressed by
the stationery and the regal tone, but that word "Revolution" was one of the forbidden words.
Mrs. Warren Sammye must be one of the "Parlor Reds," like Mrs. Godd.

So Peter took the letter to McGivney, and said suspiciously, "What kind of a Red plot is this?"

McGivney read the letter, and said, "Red plot? How do you mean?"

"Why," explained Peter, "it says `Daughters of the American Revolution.'"

And McGivney looked at him; at first he thought that Peter was joking, but when he saw that
the fellow was really in earnest, he guffawed in his face. "You boob!" he said. "Didn't you
ever hear of the American Revolution? Don't you know anything about the Fourth of July?"

Just then the telephone rang and interrupted them, and McGivney shoved the letter to him saying,
"Ask your wife about it!" So when Gladys came in, Peter gave her the letter, and she was much
excited. It appeared that Mrs. Warring Sammye was a very tip-top society lady in American City,
and this American Revolution of which she was a daughter was a perfectly respectable revolution
that had happened a long time ago; the very best people belonged to it, and it was legal and
proper to write about, and even to put on your letterheads. Peter must go home and get himself
into his best clothes at once, and telephone to the secretary that he would be pleased to call
upon Mrs. Warring Sammye at the hour indicated. Incidentally, there were a few more things
for Peter to study. He must get a copy of the social register, "Who's Who in American City,"
and he must get a history of his country, and learn about the Declaration of Independence,
and what was the difference between a revolution that had happened a long time ago and one
that was happening now.

So Peter went to call on the great society lady in her grey stone mansion, and found her every
bit as opulent as Mrs. Godd, with the addition that she respected her own social position;
she did not make the mistake of treating Peter as an equal, and so it did not occur to Peter
that he might settle down permanently in her home. Her purpose was to tell Peter that she had
heard of his lecture about the Red menace, and that she was chairman of the Board of Directors
of the Lady Patronesses of the Home for Disabled War Veterans in American City, and she wanted
to arrange to have Peter deliver this lecture to the veterans. And Peter, instructed in advance
by Gladys, said that he would be very glad to donate this lecture as a patriotic contribution.
Mrs. Warring Sammye thanked him gravely in the name of his country, and said she would let
him know the date.

Peter went home, and Gladys made a wry face, because the lecture was to be delivered before
a lot of good-for-nothing soldiers in some hall, when it had been her hope that it was to be
delivered to the Daughters themselves, and in Mrs. Warring Sammye's home. However, to have
attracted Mrs. Warring Sammye's attention for anything was in itself a triumph. So Gladys was
soon cheerful again, and she told Peter about Mrs. Warring Sammye's life; one picked up such
valuable knowledge in the gossip at the manicure parlors, it appeared.

Then, being in a friendly mood, Gladys talked to Peter about himself. They had mounted to a
height from which they could look back upon the past and see it as a whole, and in the intimacy
and confidence of their domestic partnership they could draw lessons from their mistakes and
plan their future wisely. Peter had made many blunders--he must surely admit that. Did Peter
admit that? Yes, Peter did. But, continued Gladys, he had struggled bravely, and he had the
supreme good fortune to have secured for himself that greatest of life's blessings, the cooperation
of a good and capable woman. Gladys was very emphatic about this latter, and Peter agreed with
her. He agreed also when she stated that it is the duty of a good and capable wife to protect
her husband for the balance of their life's journey, so that he would be able to avoid the
traps which his enemies set for his feet. Peter, having learned by bitter experience, would
never again go chasing after a pretty face, and wake up next morning to find his pockets empty.
Peter admitted this too. As this conversation progressed, he realized that the tour of triumph
his life had become was a thing entirely of his wife's creation; at least, he realized that
there would be no use in trying to change his wife's conviction on the subject. Likewise he
meekly accepted her prophecies as to his future conduct; he would bring home his salary at
the end of each week, and his wife would use it, together with her own salary, to improve the
appearance and tone of both of them, and to aid them to climb to a higher social position.

Peter, following his wife's careful instructions, has already become more dignified in his
speech, more grave in his movements. She tells him that the future of society depends on his
knowledge and his skill, and he agrees to this also. He has learned what you can do and what
you had better not do; he will never again cross the dead-line into crime, or take chances
with experiments in blackmail. He will try no more free lance work under the evil influence
of low creatures like Nell Doolin, but will stand in with the "machine," and bear in mind that
honesty is the best policy. So he will steadily progress; he will meet the big men of the country,
and will go to them, not cringing and twisting his hat in his hands, but with quiet self-possession.
He will meet the agents of the Attorney-General aspiring to become President, and will furnish
them with material for their weekly Red scares. He will meet legislators who want to unseat
elected Socialists, and governors who wish to jail the leaders of "outlaw" strikes. He will
meet magazine writers getting up articles, and popular novelists looking for local Red color.

But Peter's best bid of all will be as a lecturer. He will be able to travel all over the country,
making a sensation. Did he know why? No, Peter answered, he was not sure he did. Well, Gladys
could tell him; it was because he was romantic. Peter didn't know just what this word meant,
but it sounded flattering, so he smiled sheepishly, showing his crooked teeth, and asked how
Gladys found out that he was romantic. The reply was a sudden order for him to stand up and
turn around slowly.

Peter didn't like to get up from his comfortable Morris chair, but he did what his wife asked
him. She inspected him on all sides and exclaimed, "Peter, you must go on a diet; you're getting
ombongpoing!" She said this in horrified tones, and Peter was frightened, because it sounded
like a disease. But Gladys added: "You can not be a romantic figure on a lecture platform if
you've got a bay-window!"

Peter found it interesting to be talked about, so he asked again why Gladys thought he was
romantic. There were several reasons, she said, but the main one was that he had been a dangerous
criminal, and had reformed, which pleased the church people; he had made a happy ending by
marriage, which pleased those who read novels.

"Is that so?" said Peter, guilelessly, and she assured him that it was. "And what else?" he
asked, and she explained that he had known intimately and at first hand those dreadful and
dangerous people, those ogres of the modern world, the Bolsheviks, about whom the average man
and woman learned only thru the newspapers. And not merely did be tell a sensational story,
but he ended it with a money-making lesson. The lesson was "Contribute to the Improve America
League. Make out your checks to the Home and Fireside Association. The existence of your country
depends upon your sustaining the Patriot's Defense Legion." So the fame of Peter's lecture
would spread, and the Guffeys and Billy Nashes of every city and town in America would clamor
for him to come, and when he came, the newspapers would publish his picture, and he and his
wife would be welcomed by leaders of the best society. They would become social lions, and
would see the homes of the rich, and gradually become one of the rich.

Gladys looked her spouse over again, as they started to their sleeping apartment. Yes, he was
undoubtedly putting on "ombongpoing"; he would have to take up golf. He was wearing a little
American flag dangling from his watch chain, and she wondered if that wasn't a trifle crude.
Gladys herself now wore a real diamond ring, and had learned to say "vahse" and "baahth." She
yawned prettily as she took off her lovely brown "tailor-made," and reflected that such things
come with ease and security.

Both she and Peter now had these in full measure. They had lost all fear of ever finding themselves
out of a job. They had come to understand that the Red menace is not to be so easily exterminated;
it is a distemper that lurks in the blood of society, and breaks out every now and then in
a new rash. Gladys had come to agree with the Reds to this extent, that so long as there is
a class of the rich and prosperous, so long will there be social discontent, so long will there
be some that make their living by agitating, denouncing and crying out for change. Society
is like a garden; each year when you plant your vegetables there springs up also a crop of
weeds, and you have to go down the rows and chop off the heads of these weeds. Gladys' husband
is an expert gardener, he knows how to chop weeds, and be knows that society will never be
able to dispense with his services. So long as gardening continues, Peter will be a head weedchopper,
and a teacher of classes of young weedchoppers.

Ah, it was fine to have married such a man! It was the reward a good woman received for helping
her husband, making him into a good citizen, a patriot and an upholder of law and order: For
always, of course, those who own the garden would see that their head weedchopper was taken
care of, and had his share of the best that the garden produced. Gladys stood before her looking-glass,
braiding her hair for the night, and thinking of the things she would ask from this garden.
She and Peter had earned, and they would demand, the sweetest flowers, the most luscious fruits.
Suddenly Gladys stretched wide her arms in an ecstasy of realization. "We're a Success, Peter!
We're a Success! We'll have money and all the lovely things it will buy! Do you realize, Peter,
what a hit you've made?"

Peter saw her face of joy, but he was a tiny bit frightened and uncertain, because of this
unusual sharing of the honors. So Gladys was impelled to affection, mingled with pity. She
held out her arms to him. "Poor, dear Peter! He's had such a hard life! It was cruel he didn't
have me sooner to help him!"

And then Gladys reflected for a moment, and was moved to another outburst. "Just think, Peter,
how wonderful it is to be an American! In America you can always rise if you do your duty!
America is the land of the free! Your example of a poor boy's success ought to convince even
the fool Reds that they're wrong--that any boy can rise if he works hard! Why, I've heard it
said that in America the poorest boy can rise to be President! How would you like to be President,
Peter?"

Peter hesitated. He doubted if he was equal to that big a job, but he knew that it would not
please Gladys for him to say so. He murmured, "Perhaps--some day--"

"Anyhow, Peter," his wife continued, "I'm for this country! I'm an American!"

And this time Peter didn't have to hesitate. "You bet!" he said, and added his favorite formula--"100%!"

APPENDIX

A little experimenting with the manuscript of "100%" has revealed to the writer that everybody
has a series of questions they wish immediately to ask: How much of it is true? To what extent
have the business men of America been compelled to take over the detection and prevention of
radicalism? Have they, in putting down the Reds, been driven to such extreme measures as you
have here shown?

A few of the incidents in "100%" are fictional, for example the story of Nell Doolin and Nelse
Ackerman; but everything that has social significance is truth, and has been made to conform
to facts personally known to the writer or to his friends. Practically all the characters in
"100%" are real persons. Peter Gudge is a real person, and has several times been to call upon
the writer in the course of his professional activities; Guffey and McGivney are real persons,
and so is Billy Nash, and so is Gladys Frisbie.

To begin at the beginning: the "Goober case" parallels in its main outlines the case of Tom
Mooney. If you wish to know about this case, send fifteen cents to the Mooney Defense Committee,
Post Office Box 894, San Francisco, for the pamphlet, "Shall Mooney Hang," by Robert Minor.
The business men of San Francisco raised a million dollars to save the city from union labor,
and the Mooney case was the way they did it. It happened, however, that the judge before whom
Mooney was convicted weakened, and wrote to the Attorney-General of the State to the effect
that he had become convinced that Mooney was convicted by perjured testimony. But meantime
Mooney was in jail, and is there still. Fremont Older, editor of the San Francisco "Call,"
who has been conducting an investigation into this case, has recently written to the author:
"Altogether, it is the most amazing story I have ever had anything to do with. When all is
known that I think can be known, it will be shown clearly that the State before an open-eyed
community was able to murder a man with the instruments that the people have provided for bringing
about justice. There isn't a scrap of testimony in either of the Mooney or Billings cases that
wasn't perjured, except that of the man who drew the blue prints of Market Street."

To what extent has the detection and punishment of radicalism in America passed out of the
hands of public authorities and into the hands of "Big Business?" Any business man will of
course agree that when "Big Business" has interests to protect, it must and will protect them.
So far as possible it will make use of the public authorities; but when thru corruption or
fear of politics these fail, "Big Business" has to act for itself. In the Colorado coal strike
the coal companies raised the money to pay the state militia, and recruited new companies of
militia from their private detectives. The Reds called this "Government by Gunmen," and the
writer in his muckraking days wrote a novel about it, "King Coal." The man who directed the
militia during this coal strike was A. C. Felts of the Baldwin-Felts Detective Agency, who
was killed just the other day while governing several coal counties in West Virginia.

You will find this condition in the lumber country of Washington and Oregon, in the oil country
of Oklahoma and Kansas, in the copper country of Michigan, Montana and Arizona, and in all
the big coal districts. In the steel country of Western Pennsylvania you will find that all
the local authorities are officials of the steel companies. If you go to Bristol, R. I., you
will find that the National India Rubber Company has agreed to pay the salaries of two-thirds
of the town's police force.

In every large city in America the employers' associations have raised funds to hold down the
unions and smash the Reds, and these funds are being expended in the way portrayed in "100%."
In Los Angeles the employers' association raised a million dollars, and the result was the
case of Sydney R. Flowers, briefly sketched in this story under the name of "Sydney." The reader
who wishes the details of this case is referred to Chapter LXVI of "The Brass Cheek." Flowers
has been twice tried, and is about to be tried a third time, and our District-Attorney is quoted
as saying that he will be tried half a dozen times if necessary. At the last trial there were
produced a total of twenty-five witnesses against Flowers, and out of these nineteen were either
Peter Gudges and McGivneys, or else police detectives, or else employees of the local political
machine. A deputy United States attorney, talking to me about the case, told me that he had
refused to prosecute it because he realized that the "Paul letter," upon which the arrest had
been based, was a frame-up, and that he was quite sure he knew who had written it. He also
told me that there had been formed in Los Angeles a secret committee of fifty of the most active
rich men of the town; that he could not find out what they were doing, but they came to his
offices and demanded the secret records of the government; and that when he refused to prosecute
Flowers they had influence enough to have the governor of California telegraph to Washington
in protest. Questioned on the witness stand, I repeated these statements, and the deputy United
States attorney was called to the stand and attributed them to my "literary imagination."

In the old Russian and Austrian empires the technique of trapping agitators was well developed,
and the use of spies and "under cover" men for the purpose of luring the Reds into crime was
completely worked out. We have no English equivalent for the phrase "agent provocateur," but
in the last four years we have put thousands of them at work in America. In the case against
Flowers three witnesses were produced who had been active among the I. W. Ws., trying to incite
crime, and were being paid to give testimony for the state. One of these men admitted that
he had himself burned some forty barns, and was now receiving three hundred dollars a month
and expenses. At the trial of William Bross Lloyd in Chicago, charged with membership in the
Communist party, a similar witness was produced. Santeri Nourteva, of, the Soviet Bureau in
New York, has charged that Louis C. Fraina, editor of the "Revolutionary Age," was a government
agent, and Fraina wrote into the platform of the Communist party the planks which were used
in prosecuting and deporting its members. On December 27, 1919, the chief of the Bureau of
Investigation of the Department of Justice in Washington sent to the head of his local bureau
in Boston a telegram containing the following sentences: "You should arrange with your under
cover informants to have meetings of the Communist Party and Communist Labor Party held on
the night set. I have been informed by some of the bureau officers that such arrangements will
be made." So much evidence of the activity of the provocateur was produced before Federal Judge
G. W. Anderson that he declared as follows: "What does appear beyond reasonable dispute is
that the Government owns and operates some part of the Communist Party."

It appears that Judge Anderson does not share the high opinion of the "under cover" operative
set forth by the writer of "100%." Says Judge Anderson: "I cannot adopt the contention that
Government spies are any more trustworthy, or less disposed to make trouble in order to profit
therefrom, than are spies in private industry. Except in time of war, when a Nathan Hale may
be a spy, spies are always necessarily drawn from the unwholesome and untrustworthy classes.
A right-minded man refuses such a job. The evil wrought by the spy system in industry has,
for decades, been incalculable. Until it is eliminated, decent human relations cannot exist
between employers and employees, or even among employees. It destroys trust and confidence;
it kills human kindliness; it propagates hate."

To what extent have the governmental authorities of America been forced to deny to the Reds
the civil rights guaranteed to good Americans by the laws and the constitution? The reader
who is curious on this point may send the sum of twenty-five cents to the American Civil Liberties
Union, 138 West 13th Street, New York, for the pamphlet entitled, "Report upon the Illegal
Practices of the United States Department of Justice," signed by twelve eminent lawyers in
the country, including a dean of the Harvard Law school, and a United States attorney who resigned
because of his old-fashioned ideas of law. This pamphlet contains sixty-seven pages, with numerous
exhibits and photographs. The practices set forth are listed under six heads: Cruel and unusual
punishments; arrests without warrant; unreasonable searches and seizures; provocative agents;
compelling persons to be witnesses against themselves; propaganda by the Department of Justice.
The reader may also ask for the pamphlet entitled "Memorandum Regarding the Persecution of
the Radical Labor Movement in the United States;" also for the pamphlet entitled "War Time
Prosecution and Mob Violence," dated March, 1919, giving a list of cases which occupies forty
pages of closely printed type. Also he might read "The Case of the Rand School," published
by the Rand School of Social Science, 7 East Fifteenth Street, New York, and the pamphlets
published by the National Office of the Socialist Party, 220 South Ashland Blvd., Chicago,
dealing with the prosecutions of that organization.

To what extent has it been necessary to torture the Reds in prison in America? Those who are
interested are advised to write to Harry Weinberger, 32 Union Square, New York, for the pamphlet
entitled "Twenty Years Prison," dealing with the case of Mollie Steimer, and three others who
were sentenced for distributing a leaflet protesting against the war on Russia; also to the
American Civil Liberties Union for the pamphlet entitled "Political Prisoners in Federal Military
Prisons," also the pamphlet, "Uncle Sam: Jailer," by Winthrop D. Lane, reprinted from the "Survey;"
also the pamphlet entitled "The Soviet of Deer Island, Boston Harbor," published by the Boston
Branch of the American Civil Liberties Union; also for the publications of the American Industrial
Company, and the American Freedom Foundation, 166 West Washington St., Chicago.

There may be some reader with a sense of humor who asks about the brother of a United States
senator being arrested for reading a paragraph from the Declaration of Independence. This gentleman
was the brother of United States Senator France of Maryland, and curiously enough, the arrest
took place in the city of Philadelphia, where the Declaration of Independence was adopted.
There may be some reader who is curious about a clergyman being indicted and arrested in Winnipeg
for having quoted the prophet Isaiah.

There has been reference in this book to the Centralia case. No one can consider that he understands
the technique of holding down the Reds until he has studied this case, and therefore every
friend of "Big Business" should send fifty cents, either to the I. W. W. Headquarters, 1001
West Madison Street, Chicago, or to the "Liberator," New York, or to the "Appeal to Reason,"
Girard, Kansas, for the booklet, "The Centralia Conspiracy," by Ralph Chaplin, who attended
the Centralia trial, and has collected all the details and presents them with photographs and
documents. Many other stories about the I. W. W. have been told in the course of "100%." The
reader will wish to know, are these men really so dangerous, and have the business men of America
been driven to treat them as here described. The reader may again address the I. W. W. National
Headquarters for a four-page leaflet with the quaint title, "With Drops of Blood the History
of the Industrial Workers of the World has Been Written." Despite the fact that it is a bare
record of cases, there are many men serving long terms in prison in the United States for the
offense of having in their possession a copy of this leaflet, "With Drops of Blood." But the
readers of this book, being all of them 100% Americans engaged in learning the technique of
smashing the Reds, will, I feel sure, not be interfered with by the business men. Also I trust
that the business men will not object to my reprinting a few paragraphs from the leaflet, in
order to make the public realize how dangerously these Reds can write. I will, of course, not
follow their incendiary example and spatter my page with big drops of imitation blood. I quote:

"We charge that I. W. W. members have been murdered, and mention here a few of those who have
lost their lives:

"Joseph Michalish was shot to death by a mob of so-called citizens. Michael Hoey was beaten
to death in San Diego. Samuel Chinn was so brutally beaten in the county jail at Spokane, Washington,
that he died from the injuries. Joseph Hillstrom was judicially murdered within the walls of
the penitentiary at Salt Lake City, Utah. Anna Lopeza, a textile worker, was shot and killed,
and two other Fellow Workers were murdered during the strike at Lawrence, Massachusetts. Frank
Little, a cripple, was lynched by hirelings of the Copper Trust at Butte, Montana. John Looney,
A. Robinowitz, Hugo Gerlot, Gustav Johnson, Felix Baron, and others were killed by a mob of
Lumber Trust gunmen on the Steamer Verona at the dock at Everett, Washington. J. A. Kelly was
arrested and re-arrested at Seattle, Washington; finally died from the effects of the frightful
treatment he received. Four members of the I. W. W. were killed at Grabow, Louisiana, where
thirty were shot and seriously wounded. Two members were dragged to death behind an automobile
at Ketchikan, Alaska.

"These are but a few of the many who have given up their lives on the altar of Greed, sacrificed
in the ages-long struggle for Industrial Freedom.

"We charge that many thousands of members of this organization have been imprisoned, on most
occasions arrested without warrant and held without charge. To verify this statement it is
but necessary that you read the report of the Commission on Industrial Relations wherein is
given testimony of those who know of conditions at Lawrence, Massachusetts, where nearly 900
men and women were thrown into prison during the Textile Workers' Strike at that place. This
same report recites the fact that during the Silk Workers' Strike at Paterson, New Jersey,
nearly 1,900 men and women were cast into jail without charge or reason. Throughout the northwest
these kinds of outrages have been continually perpetrated against members of the I. W. W. County
jails and city prisons in nearly every state in the Union have held or are holding members
of this organization.

"We charge that members of the I. W. W. have been tarred and feathered. Frank H. Meyers was
tarred and feathered by a gang of prominent citizens at North Yakima, Washington. D. S. Dietz
was tarred and feathered by a mob led by representatives of the Lumber Trust at Sedro, Wooley,
Washington. John L. Metzen, attorney for the Industrial Workers of the World, was tarred and
feathered and severely beaten by a mob of citizens of Staunton, Illinois. At Tulsa, Oklahoma,
a mob of bankers and other business men gathered up seventeen members of the I. W. W., loaded
them in automobiles, carried them out of town to a patch of woods, and there tarred and feathered
and beat them with rope.

"We charge that members of the Industrial Workers of the World have been deported, and cite
the cases of Bisbee, Arizona, where 1,164 miners, many of them members of the I. W. W., and
their friends, were dragged out of their homes, loaded upon box cars, and sent out of the camp.
They were confined for months at Columbus, New Mexico. Many cases are now pending against the
copper companies and business men of Bisbee. A large number of members were deported from Jerome,
Arizona. Seven members of the I. W. W. were deported from Florence, Oregon, and were lost for
days in the woods, Tom Lassiter, a crippled news vender, was taken out in the middle of the
night and badly beaten by a mob for selling the Liberator and other radical papers.

"We charge that members of the I. W. W. have been cruelly and inhumanly beaten. Hundreds of
members can show scars upon their lacerated bodies that were inflicted upon them when they
were compelled to run the gauntlet. Joe Marko and many others were treated in this fashion
at San Diego, California. James Rowan was nearly beaten to death at Everett, Washington. At
Lawrence, Massachusetts, the thugs of the Textile Trust beat men and women who had been forced
to go on strike to get a little more of the good things of life. The shock and cruel whipping
which they gave one little Italian woman caused her to give premature birth to a child. At
Red Lodge, Montana, a member's home was invaded and he was hung by the neck before his screaming
wife and children. At Franklin, New Jersey, August 29, 1917, John Avila, an I. W. W., was taken
in broad daylight by the chief of police and an auto-load of business men to a woods near the
town and there hung to a tree. He was cut down before death ensued, and badly beaten. It was
five hours before Avila regained consciousness, after which the town "judge" sentenced him
to three months at hard labor.

"We charge that members of the I. W. W. have been starved. This statement can be verified by
the conditions existing in most any county jail where members of the I. W. W. are confined.
A very recent instance is at Topeka, Kansas, where members were compelled to go on a hunger
strike as a means of securing food for themselves that would sustain life. Members have been
forced to resort to the hunger strike as a means of getting better food in many places. You
are requested to read the story written by Winthrop D. Lane, which appears in the Sept. 6,
1919, number of `The Survey.' This story is a graphic description of the county jails in Kansas.

"We charge that I. W. W. members have been denied the right of citizenship, and in each instance
the judge frankly told the applicants that they were refused on account of membership in the
Industrial Workers of the World, accompanying this with abusive remarks; members were denied
their citizenship papers by judge Hanford at Seattle, Washington, and judge Paul O'Boyle at
Scranton, Pennsylvania.

"We charge that members of the I. W. W. have been denied the privilege of defense. This being
an organization of working men who had little or no funds of their own, it was necessary to
appeal to the membership and the working class generally for funds to provide a proper defense.
The postal authorities, acting under orders from the Postmaster-General at Washington, D. C.,
have deliberately prevented the transportation of our appeals, our subscription lists, our
newspapers. The char was occupy on committee is a Fox, and in branch was amputated. On committee
had a Harpy she meet back of one who proffer to carry her to a Sar
[= the] over, where t would be to take security.

To have leave her where she was, would have been to furlough about die. I am the amazon, and not
have had the care; i am the person, and not a char-- do as you wish something. "" if you
please at give maine, that i shall hard come. To the category proffer she had of one reply
was cut to yield.


"We charge that members of the I. W. W. have been compelled to submit to involuntary servitude.
This does not refer to members confined in the penitentiaries, but would recall the reader's
attention to an I. W. W. member under arrest in Birmingham, Alabama, taken from the prison
and placed on exhibition at a fair given in that city where admission of twenty-five cents
was charged to see the I. W. W."

Finally, for the benefit of the reader who asks how it happens that such incidents are not
more generally known to the public, I will reprint the following, from pages 382-383 of "The
Brass Check," dealing with the "New York Times," and its treatment of the writer's novel, "Jimmie
Higgins":

"In the last chapters. of this story an American soldier is represented as being tortured in
an American military prison. Says the `Times':

"`Mr. Sinclair should produce the evidence upon which he bases his astounding accusations,
if he has any. If he has simply written on hearsay evidence, or, worse still, let himself be
guided by his craving to be sensational, he has laid himself open not only to censure but to
punishment.'

"In reply to this, I send to the `Times' a perfectly respectful letter, citing scores of cases,
and telling the `Times' where hundreds of other cases may be found. The `Times' returns this
letter without comment. A couple of months pass, and as a result of the ceaseless agitation
of the radicals, there is a congressional investigation, and evidence of atrocious cruelties
is forced into the newspapers. The `Times' publishes an editorial entitled, `Prison Camp Cruelties,'
the first sentence of which reads: `The fact that American soldiers confined in prison-camps
have been treated with extreme brutality may now be regarded as established.' So again I write
a polite letter to the `Times,' pointing out that I think they owe me an apology. And how does
the `Times' treat that? It alters my letter without my permission. It cuts out my request for
an apology, and also my quotation of its own words calling for my punishment! The `Times,'
caught in a hole, refuses to let me remind its readers that it wanted me `punished' for telling
the truth! `All the News that's Fit to Print!'"