After these things, when Perino del Vaga, having departed from Genoa on account of his resentment
against Prince Doria, was working at Pisa, where the sculptor Stagio da Pietrasanta had begun
the execution of the new chapels in marble at the end of the nave of the Duomo, together with
that space behind the high-altar, which serves as a sacristy, it was ordained that the said
Perino, as will be related in his Life, with other masters, should begin to fill up those adornments
of marble with pictures. But Perino being recalled to Genoa, Giovanni Antonio was commissioned
to set his hand to the pictures that were to adorn the aforesaid recess behind the high-altar,
and to deal in his works with the sacrifices of the Old Testament, as symbols of the Sacrifice
of the Most Holy Sacrament, which was there over the centre of the high-altar. Sogliani, then,
painted in the first picture the sacrifice that Noah and his sons offered when they had gone
forth from the Ark, and afterwards those of Cain and of Abel; which were all highly extolled,
but above all that of Noah, because some of the heads and parts of the figures in it were very
beautiful. The picture of Abel is charming for its landscapes, which are very well executed,
and the head of Abel himself, which is the very presentment of goodness; but quite the opposite
is that of Cain, which has the mien of a truly sorry villain. And if Sogliani had pursued the
work with energy instead of being dilatory, he would have been charged by the Warden, who had
given him his commission and was much pleased with his manner and character, to execute all
the work in that Duomo, whereas at that time, in addition to the pictures already mentioned,
he painted no more than one panel, which was destined for the chapel wherein Perino had begun
to work; and this he finished in Florence, but in such wise that it pleased the Pisans well
enough and was held to be very beautiful. In it are the Madonna, S. John the Baptist, S. George,
S. Mary Magdalene, S. Margaret, and other saints. His picture, then, having given satisfaction,
Sogliani received from the Warden a commission for three other panels, to which he set his
hand, but did not finish them in the lifetime of that Warden, in whose place Bastiano della
Seta was elected; and he, perceiving that the business was moving but slowly, allotted four
pictures for the aforesaid sacristy behind the high-altar to Domenico Beccafumi of Siena, an
excellent painter, who dispatched them very quickly, as will be told in the proper place, and
also painted a panel there, and other painters executed the rest. Giovanni Antonio, then, working
at his leisure, finished two other panels with much diligence, painting in each a Madonna surrounded
by many saints. And finally, having made his way to Pisa, he there painted the fourth and last,
in which he acquitted himself worse than in any other, either through old age, or because he
was competing with Beccafumi, or for some other reason.

But the Warden Bastiano, perceiving the slowness of the man, and wishing to bring the work
to an end, allotted the three other panels to Giorgio Vasari of Arezzo, who finished two of
them, those that are beside the door of the façade. In the one nearer the Campo Santo is Our
Lady with the Child in her arms, with S. Martha caressing Him. There, also, on their knees,
are S. Cecilia, S. Augustine, S. Joseph, and S. Guido the Hermit, and in the foreground a nude
S. Jerome, with S. Luke the Evangelist, and some little boys uplifting a piece of drapery,
and others holding flowers. In the other, by the wish of the Warden, he painted another Madonna
with her Son in her arms, S. James the Martyr, S. Matthew, S. Sylvester the Pope, and S. Turpè
the Chevalier. Having to paint the Madonna, and not wishing to repeat the same composition
(although he had varied it much in other respects), he made her with Christ dead in her arms,
and those saints as it were round a Deposition from the Cross; and on the crosses, planted
on high and made of tree-trunks, are fixed two naked Thieves, surrounded by horses and ministers
of the crucifixion, with Joseph, Nicodemus, and the Maries; all for the satisfaction of the
Warden, who wished that in those new pictures there should be included all the saints that
there had been in the past in the various dismantled chapels, in order to renew their memory
in the new works. One picture was still wanting to complete the whole, and this was executed
by Bronzino, who painted a nude Christ and eight saints. And in this manner were those chapels
brought to completion, all of which Giovanni Antonio could have done with his own hand if he
had not been so slow.

And since Sogliani had won much favour with the Pisans, after the death of Andrea del Sarto
he was commissioned to finish a panel for the Company of S. Francesco, which the said Andrea
left only sketched; which panel is now in the building of that Company on the Piazza di S.
Francesco at Pisa. The same master executed some rows of cloth-hangings for the Wardens of
Works of the aforesaid Duomo, and many others in Florence, because he took pleasure in doing
that sort of work, and above all in company with his friend Tommaso di Stefano, a painter of
Florence.

Being summoned by the Friars of S. Marco in Florence to paint a work in fresco at the head
of their refectory, at the expense of one of their number, a lay-brother of the Molletti family,
who had possessed a rich patrimony when in the world, Giovanni Antonio wished to paint there
the scene of Jesus Christ feeding five thousand persons with five loaves and two fishes, in
order to make the most of his powers; and he had already made the design for it, with many
women and children and a great multitude of other people, when the friars refused to have that
story, saying that they wanted something definite, simple, and familiar. Whereupon, to please
them, he painted the scene when S. Dominic, being in the refectory with his friars and having
no bread, made a prayer to God, when the table was miraculously covered with bread, brought
by two angels in human form. In this work he made portraits of many friars who were then in
the convent, which have the appearance of life, and particularly that of the lay-brother of
the Molletti family, who is serving at table. Then, in the lunette above the table, he painted
S. Dominic at the foot of a Crucifix, with Our Lady and S. John the Evangelist, who are weeping,
and at the sides S. Catherine of Siena and S. Antonino, Archbishop of Florence, a brother of
their Order. All this, for a work in fresco, was executed with much diligence and a high finish;
but Sogliani would have been much more successful if he had executed what he had designed,
because painters express the conceptions of their own minds better than those of others. On
the other hand, it is only right that he who pays the piper should call the tune. The design
for the Miracle of the Loaves and Fishes is in the hands of Bartolommeo Gondi, who, in addition
to a large picture that he has by the hand of Sogliani, also possesses many drawings and heads
painted from life on tinted paper, which he received from the wife of the painter, who had
been very much his friend, after his death. And we, also, have in our book some drawings by
the same hand, which are beautiful to a marvel.

Sogliani began for Giovanni Serristori a large panel-picture which was to be placed in S. Francesco
dell' Osservanza, without the Porta a S. Miniato, with a vast number of figures, among which
are some marvellous heads, the best that he ever made; but it was left unfinished at the death
of the said Giovanni Serristori. Nevertheless, since Giovanni Antonio had received full payment,
he finished it afterwards little by little, and gave it to Messer Alamanno di Jacopo Salviati,
the son-in-law and heir of Giovanni Serristori; and he presented it, frame and all, to the
Nuns of S. Luca, who have it over their high-altar in the Via di S. Gallo.

Giovanni Antonio executed many other works in Florence, some of which are in the houses of
citizens, and some were sent to various countries; but of these there is no need to make mention,
for we have spoken of the most important. Sogliani was an upright person, very religious, always
occupied with his own business, and never interfering with his fellow-craftsmen.

One of his disciples was Sandrino del Calzolaio, who painted the shrine that is on the Canto
delle Murate, and, in the Hospital of the Temple, a S. John the Baptist who is assigning shelter
to the poor; and he would have done more work, and good work, if he had not died as young as
he did. Another of his disciples was Michele, who afterwards went to work with Ridolfo Ghirlandajo,
whose name he took; and likewise Benedetto, who went with Antonio Mini, a disciple of Michelagnolo
Buonarroti, to France, where he has executed many beautiful works. And another, finally, was
Zanobi di Poggino, who has painted many works throughout the city.

In the end, being weary and broken in health after having been long tormented by the stone,
Giovanni Antonio rendered up his soul to God at the age of fifty-two. His death was much lamented,
for he had been an excellent man, and his manner had been much in favour, since he gave an
air of piety to his figures, in such a fashion as pleases those who, delighting little in the
highest and most difficult flights of art, love things that are seemly, simple, gracious, and
sweet. His body was opened after his death, and in it were found three stones, each as big
as an egg; but as long as he lived he would never consent to have them extracted, or to hear
a word about them.

GIROLAMO DA TREVISO

LIFE OF GIROLAMO DA TREVISO

PAINTER

Rarely does it happen that those who persist in working in the country in which they were born,
are exalted by Fortune to that height of prosperity which their talents deserve; whereas, if
a man tries many, he must in the end find one wherein sooner or later he succeeds in being
recognized. And it often comes to pass that one who attains to the reward of his labours late
in life, is prevented by the venom of death from enjoying it for long, even as we shall see
in the case of Girolamo da Treviso.

This painter was held to be a very good master; and although he was no great draughtsman, he
was a pleasing colourist both in oils and in fresco, and a close imitator of the methods of
Raffaello da Urbino. He worked much in his native city of Treviso; and he also executed many
works in Venice, such as, in particular, the façade of the house of Andrea Udoni, which he
painted in fresco, with some friezes of children in the courtyard, and one of the upper apartments:
all of which he executed in colour, and not in chiaroscuro, because the Venetians like colour
better than anything else. In a large scene in the middle of this façade is a Juno, seen from
the thighs upwards, flying on some clouds with the moon on her head, over which are raised
her arms, one holding a vase and the other a bowl. He also painted there a Bacchus, fat and
ruddy, with a vessel that he is upsetting, and holding with one arm a Ceres who has many ears
of corn in her hands. There, too, are the Graces, with five little boys who are flying below
and welcoming them, in order, so they signify, to make the house of the Udoni abound with their
gifts; and to show that the same house was a friendly haven for men of talent, he painted Apollo
on one side and Pallas on the other. This work was executed with great freshness, so that Girolamo
gained from it both honour and profit.

The same master painted a picture for the Chapel of the Madonna in S. Petronio, in competition
with certain painters of Bologna, as will be related in the proper place. And continuing to
live in Bologna, he executed many pictures there; and in S. Petronio, in the Chapel of S. Antonio
da Padova, he depicted in oils, in imitation of marble, all the stories of the life of the
latter Saint, in which, without a doubt, there may be perceived grace, judgment, excellence,
and a great delicacy of finish. He painted a panel-picture for S. Salvatore, of the Madonna
ascending the steps of the Temple, with some saints; and another of the Madonna in the sky,
with some children, and S. Jerome and S. Catherine beneath, which is certainly the weakest
work by his hand that is to be seen in Bologna. Over a great portal, also, in Bologna, he painted
in fresco a Crucifix with Our Lady and S. John, all worthy of the highest praise. For S. Domenico,
at Bologna, he executed a panel-picture in oils of Our Lady with some saints, which is the
best of his works; it is near the choir, as one ascends to the tomb of S. Dominic, and in it
is the portrait of the patron who had it painted. In like manner, he painted a picture for
Count Giovanni Battista Bentivogli, who had the cartoon by the hand of Baldassarre of Siena,
representing the story of the Magi: a work which he carried to a very fine completion, although
it contained more than a hundred figures. There are also many other works by the hand of Girolamo
in Bologna, both in private houses and in the churches. In Galiera he painted in chiaroscuro
the façade of the Palace of the Teofamini, with another façade behind the house of the Dolfi,
which is considered in the judgment of many craftsmen to be the best work that he ever executed
in that city.

He went to Trento, and, in company with other painters, painted the palace of the old Cardinal,
from which he gained very great fame. Then, returning to Bologna, he gave his attention to
the works that he had begun. Now it happened that there was much talk throughout Bologna about
having a panel-picture painted for the Della Morte Hospital, for which various designs were
made by way of competition, some in drawing and some in colour. And since many thought that
they had the first claim, some through interest and others because they held themselves to
be most worthy of such a commission, Girolamo was left in the lurch; and considering that he
had been wronged, not long afterwards he departed from Bologna. And thus the envy of others
raised him to such a height of prosperity as he had never thought of; since, if he had been
chosen for the work, it would have impeded the blessings that his good fortune had prepared
for him. For, having made his way to England, he was recommended by some friends, who favoured
him, to King Henry; and presenting himself before him, he entered into his service, although
not as painter, but as engineer. Then, making trial of his skill in various edifices, copied
from some in Tuscany and other parts of Italy, that King pronounced them marvellous, rewarded
him with a succession of presents, and decreed him a provision of four hundred crowns a year;
and he was given the means to build an honourable abode for himself at the expense of the King.
Thereupon Girolamo, raised from one extreme of distress to the other extreme of grandeur, lived
a most happy and contented life, thanking God and Fortune for having turned his steps to a
country where men were so favourable to his talents. But this unwonted happiness was not destined
to last long, for the war between the French and the English being continued, and Girolamo
being charged with superintending all the work of the bastions and fortifications, the artillery,
and the defences of the camp, it happened one day, when the city of Boulogne in Picardy was
being bombarded, that a ball from a demi-cannon came with horrid violence and cut him in half
on his horse's back. And thus, Girolamo being at the age of thirty-six, his life, his earthly
honours, and all his greatness were extinguished at one and the same moment, in the year 1544.

POLIDORO DA CARAVAGGIO AND MATURINO

LIVES OF POLIDORO DA CARAVAGGIO AND THE FLORENTINE MATURINO

PAINTERS

In the last age of gold, as the happy age of Leo X might have been called for all noble craftsmen
and men of talent, an honoured place was held among the most exalted spirits by Polidoro da
Caravaggio, a Lombard, who had not become a painter after long study, but had been created
and produced as such by Nature. This master, having come to Rome at the time when the Loggie
of the Papal Palace were being built for Leo under the direction of Raffaello da Urbino, carried
the pail, or we should rather say the hod, full of lime, for the masons who were doing the
work, until he had reached the age of eighteen. But, when Giovanni da Udine had begun to paint
there, the building and the painting proceeding together, Polidoro, whose will and inclination
were much drawn to painting, could not rest content until he had become intimate with all the
most able of the young men, in order to study their methods and manners of art, and to set
himself to draw. And out of their number he chose as his companion the Florentine Maturino,
who was then working in the Papal Chapel, and was held to be an excellent draughtsman of antiquities.
Associating with him, Polidoro became so enamoured of that art, that in a few months, having
made trial of his powers, he executed works that astonished every person who had known him
in his former condition. On which account, the work of the Loggie proceeding, he exercised
his hand to such purpose in company with those young painters, who were well-practised and
experienced in painting, and learned the art so divinely well, that he did not leave that work
without carrying away the true glory of being considered the most noble and most beautiful
intellect that was to be found among all their number. Thereupon the love of Maturino for Polidoro,
and of Polidoro for Maturino, so increased, that they determined like brothers and true companions
to live and die together; and, uniting their ambitions, their purses, and their labours, they
set themselves to work together in the closest harmony and concord. But since there were in
Rome many who had great fame and reputation, well justified by their works, for making their
paintings more lively and vivacious in colour and more worthy of praise and favour, there began
to enter into their minds the idea of imitating the methods of Baldassarre of Siena, who had
executed several façades of houses in chiaroscuro, and of giving their attention thenceforward
to that sort of work, which by that time had come into fashion.

