  "Of such a goddess no time leaves record,
  Who burnt the temple where she was adored."--Vol. xi.

Yet Dryden, in the preface, declaims against the "inopem me copia fecit," and similar jingles
of Ovid.

[17] These I found quaintly summed up in an old rhyme:
  "With a red man read thy rede,
  With a brown man break thy bread,
  On a pale man draw thy knife,
  From a black man keep thy wife."

[18] See the introduction to Britannia Rediviva, vol. x.

[19] Vol. x.

[20] It is twice stated in these volumes (p. 246, and vol. x.), on the authority of the "Life
of Southerne," that Dryden had originally five guineas for each prologue, and raised the sum
to ten guineas on occasion of Southerne's requiring such a favour for his first play. But I
am convinced the sum is exaggerated; and incline now to believe, with Dr. Johnson, that the
advance was from two to three guineas only. [See note supra, l.c.--ED.]

[21] Life of Lucian, vol. xviii.

[22] [Is it possible that in this famous passage "Veer" is a clerical error or a misprint for
"Ware"? This would at once make sense and a literal version.--ED.]

[23] Poems from the Bannatyne Manuscript, p. 228.

[24] Shakespeare has capricious, conversation, fatigate (if not fatigue), figure, gallant,
good graces; incendiary is in Minshew's "Guide to the Tongues," ed. 1627. Tender often occurs
in Shakespeare both as a substantive and verb. And many other of the above words may be detected
by those who have time and inclination to search for them, in authors prior to Dryden's time.
[See, for a discussion of Dryden's Gallicisms, vol. xviii. of the present edition.--ED.]

[24] The remarkable phrase, "to possess the soul in patience," occurs in "The Hind and Panther;"
and in the Essay on Satire, vol. xiii., we have nearly the same expression. The image of a
bird's wing flagging in a damp atmosphere occurs in Don Sebastian, and in prose elsewhere,
though I have lost the reference. The same thought is found in "The Hind and Panther," but
is not there used metaphorically:--

  "Nor need they fear the dampness of the sky
  Should flag their wings, and hinder them to fly."

Dryden is ridiculed by an imitator of Rabelais, for the recurrence of the phrase by which he
usually prefaces his own defensive criticism: "If it be allowed me to speak so much in my own
commendation;-- see Dryden's preface to his Fables, or to any other of his works that you please."
The full title of this whimsical tract, from which Sterne borrowed several hints, is "An Essay
towards the theory of the intelligible world intuitively considered. Designed for forty-nine
parts. Part Third, consisting of a preface, a postscript, and a little something between, by
Gabriel Johnson; enriched by a faithful account of his ideal voyages, and illustrated with
poems by several hands, as likewise with other strange things not insufferably clever, nor
furiously to the purpose; printed in the year 17," etc. [The phrase mentioned first is perhaps
less remarkable than Scott's apparent forgetfulness of its Biblical origin.--ED.]

[25] Introduction to Book Fifth of "Tom Jones."

END OF VOLUME FIRST.