But he was shrewd and ready, and had a memory well stored with such parts of Scripture as were
useful pegs on which to hang clever objections and profane sneers.  Not that he had read the
Bible itself, for all his knowledge of it was got second-hand from the works of sceptics, and
in detached fragments.  However, he had learned and retained a smattering of a good many scientific
and other works, and so could astonish and confound timid and ill-informed opponents.

No wonder, therefore, that he was the admired chairman of the "Crossbourne Free-thought Club,"
which met two or three times a week in one of the public-houses, and consumed, for the benefit
of the house, but certainly not of the members themselves or their homes, a large quantity
of beer and spirits, while it was setting the misguided world right on science, politics, and
religion.  The marvel, indeed, to Foster and his friends was how ignorance, bigotry, priestcraft,
and tyranny could venture to hold up their heads in Crossbourne after his club had continued
its meeting regularly for the last two years.

Perhaps they might have been a little less surprised could one of them have taken down an old
volume of Dr South's sermons from the vicar's library shelves, and have read these words to
his fellows: "Men are infidels, not because they have sharper wits, but because they have corrupter
wills; not because they reason better, but because they live worse."  Assuredly this was true
of the infidelity in Crossbourne.

And what sort of a home was William Foster's?  The house itself looked well enough as you approached
it.  Those houses of a humbler stamp on either side of it had doors which opened at once from
the street into the parlour or living-room; but to Foster's dwelling there was a small entrance-hall,
terminating in an archway, beyond which were a large parlour, a kitchen, and a staircase leading
to the upper rooms.

There was an air of ambition about everything, as though the premises, like their occupiers,
were aiming to be something above their station, while at the same time a manifest absence
of cleanliness and neatness only presented a sort of satirical contrast to the surrounding
grandeur.

On either side of the entrance-hall, and just under the archway, was a plaster-of-Paris figure,
nearly as large as life--that on the right-hand being a representation of Bacchus, and that
on the left of a nymph dancing.  But the female image had long since lost its head, and also
one of its arms--the latter being still in existence, but being hung for convenience' sake
through the raised arm of Bacchus, making him look like one of those Hindu idols which are
preposterously figured with a number of superfluous limbs.  If the effect of this transference
of the nymph's arm to its companion statue was rather burlesque than ornamental, the disconnected
limb itself was certainly not without its use, small fragments of it being broken off from
time to time for the purpose of whitening the door-steps and the hall-flags when the hearthstone
could not readily be found.

Within the archway, over the parlour door, was a plaster bust of Socrates; but this had met
with no better treatment than the statues, having accidentally got its face turned to the wall
as though in disgrace, or as if in despair of any really practical wisdom being allowed to
have sway in the sceptic's household.

Things were no better in the sitting-room: there was plenty of finery, but no real comfort--scarcely
a single article of furniture was entire; while a huge chimney-glass, surmounted by a gilded
eagle, being too tall for its position, had been made to fit into its place by the sacrifice
of the eagle's head and body, the legs and claws alone being visible against the ceiling. 
The glass itself was starred at one corner, and the frame covered with scars where the gilding
had fallen off.  There were coloured prints on the walls, and a large photograph of the members
of the "Free-thought Club;" the different individuals of the group being taken in various attitudes,
all indicative of a more than average amount of self-esteem.  There were book-shelves also,
containing volumes amusing, scientific, and sceptical, but no place was found for the Book
of books; it was not admitted into that cheerless household.

It was a December evening; a dull fire burned within the dingy bars of William Foster's parlour
grate.  William himself was at his club, but his wife and baby were at home: that poor mother,
who knew nothing of a heavenly Father to whose loving wisdom she could intrust her child; the
baby, a poor little sinful yet immortal being, to be brought up without one whisper from a
mother's tongue of a Saviour's love.

Kate Evans (such was Mrs Foster's maiden name) had had the best bringing up the neighbourhood
could afford; at least, such was the view of her relatives and friends.

Her parents were plain working-people, who had been obliged to scramble up into manhood and
womanhood with the scantiest amount possible of book-learning.  When married they could neither
of them write their name in the register; and a verse or two of the New Testament laboriously
spelt out was their farthest accomplishment in the way of reading.

Kate was their only child, and they wisely determined that things should be different with
her.  The girl was intelligent, and soon snapped up what many other children of her own age
were a long time in acquiring. She was bright and attractive-looking, with keen eyes and dark
flowing hair, and won the affection of her teachers and companions by her open- heartedness
and generosity of disposition.

Naturally enough, the master and mistress of the large school which she attended were proud
of her as being one of their best scholars, and were determined to make the most of her abilities
for their own sake as much as hers.  And Kate herself and her parents were nothing loath. 
So books were her constant companions and occupation in all her waking hours. The needle was
very seldom in her fingers at the school, and the house- broom and the scrubbing-brush still
less often at home.

The poor mother sighed a weary sigh sometimes when, worn out with toiling, she looked towards
her child, who was deep in some scientific book by the fireside; and now and then she just
hinted to her husband that she could not quite see the use of so much book-learning for a girl
in their daughter's position; but she was soon silenced by the remark that "Our Kate had a
head-piece such as didn't fall to the lot of many, and it were a sin and a shame not to give
her all the knowledge possible while she were young and able to get it."

So the head was cultivated, and the hands that should have been busy were neglected; and thus
it was that, at the age of sixteen, Kate Evans could not sweep a room decently, nor darn a
stocking, nor mend her own clothes, nor make nor bake a loaf of bread creditably.  But then,
was she not the very rejoicing of her master and mistress's hearts, and the head girl of the
school?  And did not the government inspector always give her a specially pleasant smile and
word or two of approbation at the annual examination?

Poor Kate!  It was a marvel that she was not more spoiled by all this; but she was naturally
modest and unpresuming, and would have made a fine and valuable character had she been brought
up to shine, and not merely to glitter.  As it was, she had learned to read and write well,
and to calculate sums which were of little practical use to her. Indeed, her head was not unlike
the lumber-room of some good lady who has indulged a mania for accumulating purchases simply
because of their cheapness, without consideration of their usefulness, whether present or future;
so that while she could give you the names and positions and approximate distances of all the
principal stars without mistake or hesitation, she would have been utterly at a loss if set
to make a little arrow-root or beef--tea for a sick relation or friend.

She wound up her education at school by covering her teachers and herself with honour by her
answers, first to the elementary, and then to the advanced questions in the papers sent down
from the London Science and Art Department.  And when she left school, at the age of seventeen,
to take the place at home of her mother, who was now laid by through an attack of paralysis,
she received the public congratulations of the school managers, and was afterwards habitually
quoted as an example of what might be acquired in the humbler ranks of life by diligence, patience,
and perseverance.

As for her religious education, it was what might have been expected under the circumstances.
Her parents, ignorant of the truth themselves, though well-disposed, as it is called, to religion,
had sent her when quite a little one to the Sunday-school, where she picked up a score or two
of texts and as many hymns.  She also had gone to church regularly once every Sunday, but certainly
had acquired little other knowledge in the house of God than an acquaintance with the most
ingenious methods of studying picture-books and story-books on the sly, and of trying the patience
of the teachers whose misfortune it was for the time to be in command of the children's benches
during divine service.

As she grew up, however, Sunday-school and church were both forsaken. Tired with constant study
and the few household duties which she could not avoid performing, she was glad to lie in bed
till the Sunday-school bell summoned earlier risers; and with the school, the attendance at
church also was soon abandoned.

In summer-time, dressed in clothes which were gay rather than neat or becoming, she would stroll
out across the hills during afternoon service with some like-minded female companion, and return
by tea-time listless and out of spirits, conscious of a great want, but unconscious of the
only way to satisfy it.  For Kate Evans had a mind and heart which kept her from descending
into the paths of open sin.  Many young women there were around her, neglecters, like herself,
of God, his house, and his day, who had plunged into the depths of open profligacy; but with
such she had neither intercourse nor sympathy, for she shrunk instinctively from everything
that was low and coarse.  Yet she walked in darkness; an abiding shadow rested on her spirit.
She had gained admiration and won esteem, but she wanted peace.  Her heart was hungry, and
must needs remain so till it should find its only true satisfying food in "Jesus, the bread
of life."

Such was Kate Evans when she had reached the age of twenty--restless, unsatisfied, fretting
under the restraints and privations of a poor working-man's home, shrinking from earning her
bread by the labour of her hands, yet unable--for her heart would not allow her--to apply for
any school work which might remove her from the home where her services were greatly needed
by her now bed-ridden mother.

It was, then, with no small gratification, though not without some misgivings, that she found
herself the object of special attentions on the part of William Foster.  She was well aware
that he was no friend to religion, but then he was supposed to be highly moral; and she felt
not a little flattered by the devoted service of a man who was the oracle of the working-classes
on all matters of science and higher literature; while he on his part was equally pleased with
the prospect of having for his wife one who, both in personal attractions and education, was
universally allowed to be in her rank the flower of Crossbourne.

Kate's parents, however, were very unwilling that the intimacy between Foster and their child
should lead to a regular engagement.  They had the good sense to see that he who "feared not
God" was not very likely to "regard man," nor woman either; and they were also well aware that
the public-house and the club would be pretty sure to retain a large share of Foster's affections
after marriage.

But remonstrance and advice were in vain; love was to take the place of religion, and was to
gather into the new home all the cords which would have a tendency to draw the young man in
a different direction.  And neighbours and friends said, "Young people would be young people;"
that Kate would turn any man into a good husband; and that she would be near at hand to look
in upon her old father and mother.  So the attachment duly ripened without further check; and
before she was one and twenty, Kate Evans was married to William Foster at the registrar's office.

And now, on this December evening, rather more than a year had gone by since the wedding-day.
And what of the love which was to have effected such great things?  Alas! the gilding had got
sadly rubbed off. Not many weeks after the marriage a cloud began to gather on the face of
both husband and wife.

Coming home some day at dinner-time he would find no table laid out, the meat half raw, and
the potatoes the same; while an open book of poetry or science, turned face downwards on the
sloppy dresser, showed how his wife had been spending the time which ought to have been occupied
in preparing her husband's meal.  Then, again, when work was over, he would find, on his return
home, his wife, with uncombed hair and flushed cheeks, on her knees, puffing away at a few
sparks in the cheerless grate, while the kettle rested sulkily on a cliff of black coal, and
looked as if boiling was on its part a very remote possibility indeed.

Not that Kate was a gadder about or a gossip, but she was sleeveless, dawdling, and dreamy,
and always behindhand.  Everything was out of its place.  Thus Foster would take up a spill-case,
expecting to find material wherewith to light his evening pipe; but instead of spills, it was
full of greasy hair-pins.  And when, annoyed and disgusted, he tore a fly-leaf out of one of
his wife's school prizes, declaring that, if she did not provide him with spills, he would
take them where he could get them, a storm of passionate reproaches was followed by a volley
of curses on his part, and a hasty and indignant retreat to the public- house parlour.

And then, again, his late hours at the club, or the unwelcome presence of his sceptical companions,
whom he would sometimes bring home to discuss their opinions over pipes and spirits, would
be the ground of strong and angry remonstrance.  And the breach began soon to widen.

Washing-day would come round with all its discomforts, which she had not learned the art of
mitigating or removing.  Coming in, in better spirits perhaps than usual, intending to have
a cheerful tea and a cozy chat after it, he would find everything in a state of disturbance,
especially his young wife's temper, with plenty of steam everywhere except from the spout of
the tea-pot.  Indeed, poor Kate was one of those domestic paradoxes in her own person and house
which are specially trying to one who cares for home comfort: and who is there who does not
care for it? She would be always cleaning, yet never clean; always smartening things up, and
yet never keeping them tidy.  And so when William, on coming home, would find pale, ghost-like
linen garments hanging reeking from the embossed arm of the gas chandelier a large piece of
dissolving soap on the centre of the table-cover, a great wooden tub in the place where his
arm-chair should be, a lump of sodden rags in one of his slippers, and his wife toiling and
fuming in the midst of all, with her hair in papers and her elbows in suds, with scarce the
faintest hope for him of getting his evening meal served for more than an hour to come,--what
wonder if harsh words escaped him, repaid with words equally harsh from his excited partner,
and followed by his flinging himself in a rage out of such a home, and returning near midnight
with a plunging, stumbling step on the stairs, which sent all the blood chilly back to the
heart of the unhappy woman, and quenched in sobs and tears the bitter words that were ready
to burst forth!

But at last there came the little babe, and with it a rush of returning fondness and tenderness
into the heart of both the parents; yet only for a time.  The tide of home misery had set in
full again; and now on this winter evening, a little more than a twelve-month after her marriage,
poor, unhappy Kate Foster knelt by the side of the little cradle, her tears falling fast and
thick on the small white arm of her sick baby; for very sick it was, and she feared that death
(ay, not death, but God--her heart, her conscience said, "God,") was about to snatch from her
the object she loved best on earth, even with a passionate love.

Though it was winter and cold, yet the casement was ajar, for the chimney of the room had smoked
for weeks; but nothing had been done towards remedying the trouble, except grumbling at it,
and letting in draughts of keen air through half-open doors and windows, to the manifest detriment
of the health of both mother and child.  And what was she to do, poor thing, in her hour of
special trial and need?

Looking earnestly at her baby through her tears, she leaned eagerly and breathlessly forward
into the cradle.  Was it gone?  Was it really taken from her?  No; she could hear its disturbed
breathing still.  And then as she knelt on, with clasped hands and throbbing heart, something
brought to her lips words of prayer: "O Lord!  O Lord, have pity on me! Oh, baby, baby!--don't
take baby from me!"

Even that poor prayer gave her some relief, followed as it was by an agony of weeping.  Never
had she uttered a word of prayer before since the day she was married, and her own words startled
her.  Yet again and again she felt constrained to make her simple supplication, pleading earnestly
for her baby's life with the God the reality of whose being and power she now felt, spite of
herself.

But what was that sound that made her spring up from her knees, and listen with colourless
cheeks and panting breath?  She thought she heard footsteps pass under the half-open window.
There was no regular road at the back of the house, but the premises could be approached in
that direction by a narrow path along the side of the hill which shut in the buildings in the
rear.  Between the hill and the house was a back-yard into which the parlour looked, and through
this yard William would sometimes come from his work; but ordinary visitors came to the front,
and trades-people to a side door on the left.

Could the footsteps have been those of her husband?  And had he paused to listen to her words
of earnest and passionate prayer?  If so, she well knew what a torrent of ridicule and sarcastic
reproach she must prepare herself for.  And yet the step did not sound like his.  Alas! she
had learned to know it now too well!  She dreaded it.  There was no music in it now for her.
Perhaps she was mistaken.  She listened eagerly; all was still, and once more her eyes and
heart turned towards the little cradle, as the restless babe woke up with a start and a cry.
So again she knelt beside it, and, rocking it, gave free vent to her tears, and to words of
prayer, though uttered now more softly.

But there--there was that footstep again!  There could be no mistake about it now; and as certainly
it was not her husband's tread.  Annoyed now that some intruder should be lurking about and
listening to her words, she was just going to ask angrily who was there, when the casement
was pushed cautiously a little more open, and a hand holding a small book was thrust into the room.

Amazed, terrified, Kate stood up erect, and stared with parted lips at the strange intrusion.
What could it mean?  The hand was that of a woman, and there were rings on the fingers.  It
was but a moment that she had time to mark these things; for before she could recover from
her surprise, the mysterious hand had dropped the book into the room, and with it one of its
rings, which rolled towards the hearth, sparkling as it went.  Then there was a rapid retreat
of quiet footsteps outside, and all was still again.

Taking up the ring, which had a red stone in the centre like a ruby, and was seemingly of considerable
value, after examining it for a moment, she put it into her pocket, and then picked up the
little book, which lay on the floor where it had fallen, just underneath the window.  She knew
what it was in a moment,--a small Bible.  It was very old, and very much worn, and had clearly
done good service to its owner, or owners, for many a long year.  Sitting by the cradle, and
rocking it with one hand, she held the little volume in the other, and closely examined it.
The paper of which it was made was coarse, and the printing old- fashioned.  On the inside
of the stiff cover was written in faded ink:--

  Steal not this book for fear of shame,
  For here you see the owner's name.
  June 10, 1798.
  Mary Williams.

Kate's perplexities only increased.  But now her attention was drawn to the words themselves
of the book.  As she turned over page after page, she noticed that all the most striking texts
were underlined with red- ink, especially those which spoke of help in trouble, and of the
mercy and love of God.  Her attention was now thoroughly aroused.  Verse after verse was read
by her, with tearful eyes and a heart opening itself to the sunshine of divine love; while
every fresh text, as she turned from leaf to leaf, seemed more and more appropriate to her
own troubles and sorrows.

Could this be the same Bible which she used to read in the Sunday- school, and hear read at
church?  She could scarcely believe it.  It seemed now as if this were altogether another book,
just written and printed expressly for her, to meet her case.  All the once familiar passages
and verses had new life and light in them now.  The baby stirred; she hushed it back to sleep.
The fire burned low, but she read on,--she was living out of herself.

At last she laid down the little volume, and resting her forehead on her hand, thought long
and deeply, her lips moving in silent prayer.  Then she started up hastily, stirred and brightened
up the fire, and put the room and herself into the best order that she could.  Then she took
up the Bible again, and gazing at it earnestly, said slowly and half-out loud to herself, "Wherever
can this have come from?"  And then a voice seemed to speak within her; and lifting up her
eyes reverently to that heaven which she had never dared to think about for years past, she
exclaimed softly and fervently, as she clasped her hands together: "O my God, thou didst send
it!  It came to me from heaven!"

But her thoughts were soon recalled to earth again.  Her husband's step was heard now.  It
was past ten o'clock, and he was returning from his club.

It was often now that she had to watch and wait in weariness to as late an hour.  "He mustn't
see this," she cried shudderingly to herself, as she heard his hand upon the latch; "not yet,
not yet!"  So, snatching up the little Bible, she placed it deep down under the clothes of
the baby's cradle.

CHAPTER TWO.

THE RAILWAY BRIDGE.

The Crossbourne station was not in the town itself, but on the outskirts, about a quarter of
a mile distant from the Town Hall. Nevertheless, the town was creeping up to it in the form
of a suburb, which would ere long reach the station gates.  Crossbourne, the present flourishing
manufacturing town, occupied the hills on either side of the little stream, the greater part
of it being to the north, in the direction of the parish church.  The station itself was on
high ground, and looked across over open country, the line in the London direction passing
from it through the centre of the town over a noble viaduct of some twenty arches.  In the
opposite direction the line made a gradual descent from the station, and at a mile's distance
passed through a cutting, towards the farther end of which it inclined northwards in a sharp curve.

Just about the middle of this curve, and where the cutting was pretty deep, a massive wooden
foot-bridge was thrown across the line.  This was at a place not much frequented, as the bridge
formed only part of a short cut into a by-road which led to one or two farms on the hill- sides.
Along the rails round this ascending curve the ordinary trains laboured with bated breath;
and even the dashing express was compelled to slacken here a little in its speed.

It was on the 23rd of December, the same night in which Kate Foster received so mysteriously
the little Bible which was dropped with the ring into her parlour, that four men were plodding
along in the darkness over a field-way which led to the wooden bridge just mentioned.  They
were dressed in their ordinary mill or foundry working-clothes, and seemed, from their stealthy
walk and crouching manner, to be out on no good or honest errand.  Three of them slouched along
with their hands deep in their pockets; the fourth carried a bag of some kind, which apparently
was no burden to him, for it swung lightly backwards and forwards on two of his fingers.  The
men's faces were all muffled in scarves, and their caps pulled down over their eyes.  As they
walked along the field-path in single file they preserved a profound silence. At last they
reached a stile which brought them out close to the end of the bridge which was nearest to
the up-line, along which the trains to London passed.

It was now nearly half-past ten.  Everything around was profoundly still, except the faint
wailing of the wind among the telegraph wires. A drizzling rain had been falling at intervals,
for the season was remarkably mild for the time of year, though the little air that blew was
raw and chilly.  It was very dark, nevertheless the great wooden parapet of the bridge could
be distinctly seen on either side, as the four men stood on the roadway of the bridge itself
midway over the line.

"Ned," said one of the men in a hoarse whisper, "just cross right over, and see if there's
any one about."

The man addressed crept cautiously over to the farther side of the line, and along the road
either way for a hundred yards or more, and then returned to his companions.

"It's all right," he whispered; "there's not a soul stirring, as I can hear or see."

"Well, wait a bit," said the man whom he addressed; "just let's listen."

All was perfectly quiet.

"Now, then," said the first speaker again, "the express won't be long afore it's here; who'll
do it?"

"Why, Joe Wright, to be sure; he's got the most spirit in him.  I know he'll do it," said another
voice.

"He's got most beer in him, at any rate," said the first speaker.

There was a gruff chuckle all round.

"Well, I'm your man," said Wright; "I've carried the bag, and I may as well finish the job."

"Look alive, then," cried Ned, "or the train'll pass afore you're ready."

"You just shut up," growled Joe; "I knows what I'm about."

So saying, he began to climb over the parapet of the bridge, grasping in his left hand the
bag, which was apparently an ordinary travelling or carpet-bag, rather below the average size.
Having clambered over the top rail, he let himself down among the huge beams which sprung out
from the great upright posts, and served to strengthen and consolidate the whole structure.

"Mind how you get down, Joe; take care you don't slip," said more than one voice anxiously
from above.

"All right," was the reply; "I'm just ready."

"Stick fast, and mind where you drop it; she's coming!" cried Ned half- out loud, in a voice
of intense excitement.

Joe Wright was now half standing, half hanging over the up-rails, a few feet only above where
the roofs of the carriages would pass.  The low, labouring sound of the coming train had been
heard for some moments past; then it swelled into a dull roar as the light wind carried it
forward, then became fainter again as the wind lulled; and then burst into a rushing, panting
whirlwind as the engine turned the bend of the curve.  Forward dashed the train, as though
it were coming with a will to batter down the bridge at a blow; light flashing from its lamps,
fiery smoke throbbing out from the funnel in giant puffs, and a red-hot glare glowing from
beneath the furnace.

"Now then!" shouted the men from above.  "All right!"  Joe shouted back in answer.  "Shra-a-a-auk!"
roared the train, as with diminished speed it passed beneath them.  At that moment Wright,
leaning down, dropped the bag.  It fell plump on a hollow place into a tarpaulin which covered
some luggage on the roof of one of the first-class carriages, and was whisked far away in another
second, not to be disturbed from its snug retreat till it reached the great metropolis.

"I've done it," cried Wright from below.

"Now then," cried Ned in return, "get back as fast as you can, and be careful."

No reply.  Joe was making his way back as best he could; but it was no easy task, for his hands
had become very cold, and the great oaken supports of the bridge were slippery with the moisture
which had gathered thickly on them.

"Well done," said one of his companions, stooping over to watch his progress; "a little more
to the left, Joe."

The climber struggled upward.  And now his right-hand was nearly on a level with the floor
of the bridge, and he was stretching out his left hand to grasp one of the rails, when his
foot suddenly slipping on a sloping rafter, he lost his hold altogether, and, to the horror
of his companions, fell with a heavy thud on to the rails beneath him!

"Joe, Joe--speak, man!  Are you hurt?" cried Ned.

No answer.

"Lord help us," he continued, "the drunken train'll be up directly.  Get up, man, get up; you'll
be killed if you lie there."

Not a word from the unfortunate man.

They all leant over the parapet, straining their eyes to see if Joe really lay there or had
crawled away.  They could just make out a dark heap lying apparently right across the rails:
it did not stir; not a moment was to be lost.

"Here, Ned," cried the man who had seemed to act as a sort of leader of the party, "just get
down the bank somehow, and drag him off the rails. I'll see if I can drop down from the bridge."

Alas!  This was easier said than done.  The whistle of the last stopping train--sarcastically
but too appropriately known among the men as "the drunken train," from the ordinary condition
of a considerable number of its occupants--was already being sounded; but conveyed no warning
to the poor stunned wretch who lay helpless in the engine's path.  Frantically had Ned rushed
down the bank of the cutting, while his companion, at the risk of his own life, sliding, slipping,
tumbling among the rafters of the bridge, had dropped close to the prostrate body, and then
sprung to his feet.  It was too late; the instrument of death was upon them.  A moment more,
and the train had passed over their miserable companion.

In a few minutes the horror-stricken group were gathered round the poor, bleeding, mangled
mass of humanity.  The sight was too terrible to describe.  One thing there could be no doubt
about--their unhappy comrade was entirely past their help; the work of destruction had been
complete; and what was now to be done?  Silently all crept back again to the little stile.
A hasty consultation was held.

"Mates," said the chief speaker, "it's a bad job, but it's plain enough we can't do him no
good; it's past that.  It's no fault of ours.  Poor Joe!"

"Shall we go down and drag him off the rails on to the bank?" asked Ned.

"Where's the use, man?" replied the other; "we shall only be getting ourselves into trouble:
it'll seem then as if some one else had been having a hand in it, and we shall be getting his
blood on our clothes. It's all over with him--that's certain; and now we must take care of
ourselves: what's done can't be undone.  Pity we ever meddled with that bag.  But that's all
past now.  Not a word about this to living soul, mates.  I'm sure we all see as that's our
line; and a blessed thing it'll be if we manage to keep clear of another scrape.  This one's
been bad enough, I'm sure."

So all slunk quietly back to their own homes.  And next day all Crossbourne was horrified to
hear that Joe Wright had been found on the line cut to pieces by some train that had run over him.

An inquest, of course, was held; but as it was well-known that poor Joe was sadly addicted
to drink, and was often away from his home for nights together on drunken sprees, it was thought,
in the absence of any evidence to the contrary, that he had wandered on to the line in a state
of intoxication, and had been overtaken and killed by the express or stopping train.  A verdict
of "accidental death" was given accordingly.

But poor Wright's sad end made no difference in the drunkenness of Crossbourne; indeed, Ned
and his two companions in that awful night's adventure dared not leave their old haunts and
ways, even had they wished to do so, lest any change in their habits should arouse suspicion
against them.  So Alcohol still maintained his sway over a vast body of loyal subjects in the
busy town, and gathered in the spoils of desolate homes, broken hearts, and shattered constitutions.

CHAPTER THREE.

DOCTOR JOHN PROSSER.

The express train which passed through Crossbourne station between ten and eleven o'clock on
the night when Joe Wright met with his sad end, arrived in London about three a.m. the following
morning.  It was heavily laden, for it conveyed a large number of persons from the north, who
were coming up to the metropolis to spend Christmas with their friends.

From a first-class carriage about the middle of the train there emerged a heap of coats and
wraps, surmounted by a fur cap, the whole enclosing a gentleman of middle age and middle height,
with black beard and moustache, and gold-rimmed spectacles.

"Cab, sir?" asked the porter who opened the door.

"If you please."

"Any luggage, sir?"

"Yes; it was put on the roof of my carriage."

"All right, sir; I'll see to it if you'll get into the cab."

So the gentleman, who was John Prosser, PhD, got into the cab which was waiting for him; and
having seen that his luggage was all brought to the conveyance, threw himself into a corner
and closed his eyes, having given his direction to the driver as he was stepping into the vehicle.

"Stop a moment, Jim," said the porter to the cabman, as the latter was just jerking his reins
for a start.  "Here, catch hold of this bag; it was on the top of this gent's carriage: no
one else owns to it, so it must be his'n.  The gent's forgotten it, I dessay."

So saying, he threw a light, shabby-looking carpet-bag up to the driver, who deposited it by
his side, and drove off.

After sleeping for a few hours at a hotel where he was well-known, and having urgent business
in the city next morning, the doctor deposited his luggage, which he had left with sundry rugs
and shawls in charge of the hotel night porter, at his own door on his way to keep his business
appointment, leaving word that he should be at home in the afternoon. With the other luggage
there was handed in the shabby-looking carpet-bag which had come with it.

"What's this?" asked the boy-in-buttons, in a tone of disgust, of the housemaid, as he touched
the bag with his outstretched foot.

"I don't know, I'm sure," was the reply.  "It ain't anything as master took with him, and I'm
quite sure it don't belong to mistress."

"I'll tell you what it is," said the boy abruptly, and in a solemn voice, "it's something as
has to do with science.  There's something soft inside it, I can feel.  P'raps there's something
alive in it--I shouldn't wonder.  Oh!  P'raps there's gun-cotton in it.  I'd take care how
I carried it if I was you, Mary, or p'raps it'll go off and blow you to bits!"

"Oh goodness!" exclaimed the housemaid, "I won't touch it.  Just you take it yourself and put
it into master's study; it'll be safest there."

So the boy, with a grin of extreme satisfaction at the success of his assault on the housemaid's
nerves, helped her to carry the rest of the luggage upstairs, and then deposited the mysterious
bag in a corner of the doctor's own special sanctum.  Now this study was a room worth describing,
and yet not very easy to describe.

The doctor's house itself was one of those not very attractive-looking dwellings which are
to be found by streetfuls running from square to square in the west end of London.  It had
stood patiently there for many a long year, as was evident from the antiquated moulding over
the doorway, and from a great iron extinguisher, in which the link-bearers of old used to quench
their torches, which formed part of the sombre- coloured ironwork that skirted the area.  The
gloomy monotony of the street was slightly relieved by a baker's shop at one corner and a chemist's
at the other.  But for these, the general aspect would have been one of unbroken dinginess.

Nor did the interior of the doctor's house present a much livelier appearance.

The entrance-hall, which was dark and narrow, had rather a sepulchral smell about it, which
was not otherwise than in keeping with some shelves of books at the farther end--the overflow
apparently of the doctor's library; the tall, dark volumes therein looking like so many tombs
of the dead languages.

To the left, as you entered the hall, was a dining-room massively furnished, adorned with a
few family portraits, and as many vigorous engravings.  But there lacked that indescribable
air of comfort which often characterises those rooms devoted to the innocent and social refreshment
of the body at meal-times.  The chairs, though in themselves all that dining-room chairs ought
to be, did not look as if on a habitual good understanding with one another; some were against
the wall, and others stood near the table, and at irregular distances, as though they never
enjoyed that cozy fraternity so desirable in well- conditioned seats.  Books, too, lay about
in little zigzag heaps; while a bunch of keys, a pair of lady's gloves, and a skein of coloured
wool lay huddled together on the centre of the sideboard.  The whole arrangement, or rather
disarrangement, of the room bespoke, on the part of the presiding female management, an indifference
to those minor details of order and comfort a due attention to which makes home (a genuine
English home) the happiest spot in the world.

Opposite to this room, on the other side of the hall, was another of similar size, used apparently
as a sort of reception-room.  Huge book- shelves occupied two of the walls, an orrery stood
against a third, while dusty curiosities filled up the corners.  There was something peculiarly
depressing about the general appearance and tone of this apartment,--nothing bright, nothing
to suggest cheerful and happy thoughts,--plenty of food for the mind, but presented in such
an indigestible form as was calculated to inflict on the consumer intellectual nightmare. 
This room was known as the library.

But we pass on to the doctor's own special room--the study.  This was beyond and behind the
dining-room.  Book-shelves towered on all sides, filled with volumes of all sizes, and in nearly
all languages, some in exquisitely neat white vellum binding, with Tome One, Tome Two, etcetera,
in shining gold on their backs--the products of an age when a conscientiousness could be traced
in the perfect finish of all the details of a work external or internal; some in the form of
stately folios, suggestive at once both of the solidity and depth of learning possessed by
the writers and expected in the readers; while a multitude of lesser volumes were crowded together,
some erect, others lying flat, or leaning against one another for support.  Greek and Latin
classic authors, and in all languages poets, historians, and specially writers on science were
largely represented--even French and German octavoes standing at ease in long regiments side
by side, suggestive of no Franco-Prussian war, but only of an intellectual contest, arising
out of amicable differences of opinion.  On one side of the principal bookcase was an electrical
machine, and on the other an air-pump; while a rusty sword and a pair of ancient gauntlets
served as links to connect the warlike past with the pacific present.  In the centre of the
room was a large leather-covered writing-table, on which lay a perfect chaos of printed matter
and manuscript; while bottles of ink, red, black, and blue, might be seen emerging from the
confusion like diminutive forts set there to guard the papers from unlearned and intrusive
fingers. Order was clearly not the doctor's "first law;" and certainly it must have required
no common powers of memory to enable him, when seated in front of the confusion he himself
had made, to lay his hand upon any particular book or manuscript which might claim his immediate
attention. On either side of a small fire-place at the rear of the table, and above it, hung
charts, historical, geological, and meteorological; while a very dim portrait of some friend
of the doctor, or perhaps of some literary celebrity, looked down from over the doorway through
a haze of venerable dust on the scientific labours which it could neither share nor lighten.

In the corner of the room farthest from the door was a little closet, seldom opened, secured
by a patent lock, whose contents no one was acquainted with save the doctor himself.  The housemaid,
whose duties in this room were confined to an occasional wary sweeping and dusting, and fire-lighting
in the winter season, would keep at a respectful distance from this closet, or pass it with
a creeping dread; for the boy-in- buttons had thrown out dark suggestions that it probably
contained the skulls of murderers, or, at the least, snakes and scorpions preserved in spirits,
or even possibly alive, and ready to attack any daring intruder on their privacy.

Such were Dr John Prosser's home and study.

It was just four o'clock in the afternoon of the 24th of December when the doctor returned
to his house from the city.

"Is your mistress at home?" he asked of the boy.

"No, sir; she told me to tell you that she was gone to a meeting of the school board."

The doctor's countenance fell.  He was evidently disappointed; and no wonder, for he had been
away from his home for the last ten days, and felt keenly the absence of his wife, and of a
loving greeting on his return.

"Any letters for me, William?" he asked.

"Yes, sir, they're on your table; and, please, sir, I've put the little carpet-bag into your
study."

"Carpet-bag!  What carpet-bag?" asked his master.

"Why, sir, the little bag as came with your luggage.  We didn't take it upstairs, because it's
nothing as you took with you when you left home, and Mary says it don't belong to mistress;
so I thought it would be better to put it into your study till you came home, as it might be
something particular.  It's in the corner by the fire-place, sir."

"Well, well, never mind," was the reply; "let me know when your mistress comes in," and the
doctor retired to his sanctum.

Drawing up his chair to the table, he was soon deep in his letters; but turning round to poke
the fire, his eye fell on the little bag.  "How can I have come by this, I wonder?  And what
can it be?" he said to himself, as he took it up and turned it round and round.  It was fastened
by an ordinary padlock, which easily opened on the application of one of the doctor's keys.
"Nothing but waste paper," he said, as he turned out a portion of the contents, which appeared
to consist merely of pieces of newspaper and brown paper crumpled up.  "Pshaw!  Some foolish
hoax or practical joke intended for me, or somebody else, perhaps!" he exclaimed.  "Well, it
seems scarcely worth making any trouble about; but if it has come here by mistake, and is of
sufficient value, there will be inquiries or an advertisement about it."  So saying, he replaced
the crumpled papers, locked the bag again, and opening his closet, placed it on one of the
upper shelves, where it must rest for a while and gather dust.

When Dr Prosser had finished reading his letters, and had answered such as needed an immediate
reply, he betook himself to the drawing-room. This was a large apartment, occupying upstairs
the same area as the library, hall, and dining-room.  It was handsomely furnished, bearing
marks in every direction of a highly cultivated taste and of woman's handiwork.  Yet there
was wanting that peculiar air of comfort which gives a heart--cheering glow alike to the humblest
cottage parlour and the elegant saloon of the man of wealth and refinement.  Indeed, it might
truly be said that the room abounded in everything that could be devised, but comfort.  Like
a picture full of brilliant colouring, the various hues of which need blending and toning down,
so the articles of luxury and beauty lavishly scattered about Dr Prosser's drawing-room, though
tastefully selected, seemed calculated rather to call forth the passing admiration of friends
and strangers than to give abiding pleasure to their possessors.

At present there was certainly something very discouraging about the whole appearance of things
in the eyes of the doctor, as he entered the costly furnished apartment.  A fire, it is true,
twinkled between the bars of the grate; but its few feeble sparks, in contrast with the prevailing
surroundings of black coal and cinders, were suggestive to the feelings rather of the chilliness
they were meant to counteract than of the warmth which they were designed to impart.  Near
the fire was a dwarf, round, three-legged table, on which lay a manuscript in a female hand.
The doctor took it up, and laid it down with a sigh.  It was a portion of a long-since-begun
and never-likely-to-be-finished essay on comparative anatomy.  A heap of unanswered letters
lay on a taller table close by, having displaced a work-basket, whose appearance of superlative
neatness showed how seldom the fingers of its gentle owner explored or made use of its homely
stores.  A grand piano stood near the richly curtained windows.  It was open.  A vocal duet
occupied the music-rest, and various other pieces for voice and instrument were strewed along
the highly polished top.  Near the piano was a harp, while a manuscript book of German and
Italian songs was placed upon an elegant stand near it, and other pieces filled a gaping portfolio
at the foot. On a beautifully inlaid table in the centre of the room was an unfinished water-colour
drawing, propped up by a pile of richly gilded and ornamented books.  The drawing, with its
support, had been pushed back towards the middle of the table, to make way for a sheet or two
of note-paper containing portions of a projected poem.  And the presiding and inspiring genius
of all this beautiful confusion was Agnes Prosser.

And did she make her husband happy?  Well, it was taken for granted by friends and acquaintance
that she did--or, at any rate, that it must be his fault if she did not; and so the poor doctor
thought himself.  He was proud of his wife, and considered that he ought to be thoroughly happy
with her; but somehow or other, he was not so.  She was, in the common acceptation of the words,
highly accomplished, of an amiable and loving disposition, graceful and winning in person and
manner, able to take the head of his table to the entire satisfaction of himself and his friends,
and capable of conversing well on every subject with all who were invited to her house, or
whom she met in society elsewhere.

What could her husband want more?  He did want something more--his heart asked and yearned
for something more.  What was it?  He could hardly distinctly tell.  Nevertheless he felt himself
on this afternoon--he had been gradually approaching the feeling for some time past--a disappointed
man.  Perhaps it was his own fault, he thought; yet so it was.

He was now just forty years of age, and had been married three years. His wife was some ten
years younger than himself.  He had looked well round him before making choice of one with
whom he was to share the joys and sorrows of a domestic life.  He was a man who thoroughly
respected religion, and could well discriminate between the genuine servant of Christ and the
mere sounding professor, while at the same time scientific studies had rather tended to make
him undervalue clear dogmatic teaching as set forth in the revealed Word of God.  Yet he was
too profound a thinker to adopt that popular scepticism which is either the refuge of those
who, consciously or unconsciously, use it as a screen, though it proves but a semi-transparent
one at the best, to shut out the light of a coming judgment, or the halting-place of thinkers
who stop short of the only source of true and infallible wisdom--the revealed mind of God.
His wife, too, had been taught religiously, and cordially assented to the truths of the gospel,
though the constraining love of Christ was yet wanting; and both she and her husband were intimate
friends of one whose path had ever been since they had known it, "the path of the just, like
the shining light, that shineth more and more unto the perfect day:" and that one was Ernest
Maltby, now vicar of Crossbourne.

So Dr Prosser had chosen his wife well.  And yet he was disappointed in her; and why?  Just
because he had made the mistake--and how common a mistake it is in these days--of supposing
that accomplishments acquired and a highly cultivated mind make the model woman, wife, and
mother. Surely the mistake is a sad and fatal one--fatal to woman's highest happiness and truest
usefulness; fatal to her due fulfilment of the part which her loving Creator designed her to
fulfil in this world!

There are two concentric circles in which we all move, an inner or domestic circle, an outer
or social circle.  We are too often educating our women merely for the outer circle.  We crowd
the mind and memory with knowledge of all sorts, that they may shine in society: we forget
to teach them first and foremost how to make home happy.  It was so with Mrs Prosser.  She
had overstrained her mind with the burden of a multitude of acquirements and accomplishments,
which had not, after all, made her truly accomplished.  One or two things for which she had
real taste and ability thoroughly mastered would have been a far greater source of delight
to her husband, and of satisfaction to herself, than the mere handful of unripe fruit which
she had gathered from a dozen different branches of the tree of knowledge, and in the collecting
of which she had, in a measure, impaired the elasticity of her mind and her bodily strength,
and found no time for making herself mistress of a thousand little undemonstrative acquirements
which tend to keep a steady light of joy and peace burning daily and hourly in the home.

What wonder, then, that, when a little one came to gladden the hearts of those who were already
fondly attached to each other, the poor mother was unable to do justice to her child.  Partly
nourished by a stranger, and partly brought up by hand, and missing those numberless little
attentions which either ignorance or a mind otherwise occupied prevented Mrs Prosser from giving
to the frail being who had brought into the world with it a delicacy of constitution due, in
a considerable degree, to its mother's overstrain of mind and body, the baby pined and drooped,
and, spite of medicine, prayers, and tears, soon closed its weary eyes on a world which had
used it but roughly, to wing its way into a land unclouded by sin or sorrow.

How keenly he felt the loss of his child the doctor dared not say, especially to his wife,
entertaining as he did a painful misgiving that she had hardly done her duty by it; while on
the mother's heart there rested an abiding burden, made doubly heavy by a dreadful consciousness
of neglect on her part--a burden which no lapse of time could ever wholly remove.  Thus a stationary
shadow brooded over that home where all might have been unclouded sunshine.

Dr Prosser was disappointed; for he had hoped to find in his wife, not merely or chiefly an
intellectual and highly educated companion, but one in whose society he could entirely unbend--one
who would make his home bright by causing him to forget for a while science and the busy whirl
of the world in the beautiful womanly tendernesses which rejoice a husband's heart, and smooth
out the wrinkles from his brow.

It was, then, as a disappointed man that Dr Prosser sat with his feet on the drawing-room polished
fender with his chair tilted back.  Moodily gazing at the cheerless fire, he had become sunk
deep in absorbing meditation, when a rushing step on the stairs roused him from his reverie,
and scattered for the time all painful thoughts.

"My dear, dear John, how delighted I am to see you back; I hardly expected you so soon!" exclaimed
Agnes Prosser, after exchanging a most loving salutation with her husband.

"Why, I thought," was the answer, with somewhat of reproach in its tone, "that you knew I should
be here this afternoon."

"Oh yes; but hardly so soon.  Well, I am so sorry; it was too bad not to be at home to welcome
you.  And, I declare, they've nearly let the fire out.  What can that stupid boy have been
about?  And the room in such confusion too!  Well, dearest, you shan't find it so again.  Just
ring the bell, please, and we'll make ourselves comfortable.--William," to the boy who answered
the summons, "bring up a cup of tea, and a glass of sherry, and the biscuit box.--You'll like
a cup of tea, John.--And, by- the-by, William, tell Mrs Lloyd I should like dinner half an
hour earlier.--You won't mind dinner at half-past five to-day, dearest?"

"No, my dear Agnes, not if it is more convenient to yourself."

"Why, the fact is, I've promised to meet a select committee of ladies this evening at seven
o'clock, at Lady Strong's."

"What!--this evening!" exclaimed her husband.  "Why, it's Christmas-eve! Whatever can these
good ladies want with one another to-night away from their own firesides?"

"Ah now, John, that's a little hit at your poor wife.  But a man with your high sense of duty
ought not to say so.  You know it must be `duty first, and pleasure afterwards.'"

"True, Agnes, where the duty is one plainly laid upon us, but not where it is of one's own
imposing.  I can't help thinking that a wife's first and chief duties lie at home."

"Oh, now, you mustn't look grave like that, and scold me.  I ordered a fly to call for me at
a quarter to seven, and I shan't be gone much more than an hour, I daresay.  And you can have
a good long snooze by the dining-room fire while I'm away.  I know how you enjoy a snooze."

William now appearing with the tray, she passed the tea to her husband, and took the glass
of sherry herself.  A cloud settled for a moment on the doctor's brow.  He wished that the
constant drain on his wife's energies, physical and mental, could be restored by something
less perilous than these stimulants, resorted to, he could see, with increasing frequency.
But she always assured him that nothing so reinvigorated her as just one glass of sherry.

"And what are these good ladies going to meet about?" he asked, when the tray had been removed.

"Oh, you'll laugh, I daresay, when I tell you," she replied; "but I assure you that they are
all good and earnest workers.  We are going to discuss the best way of improving the homes
of the working-classes."

"Well," said the doctor, laughing, but with a touch of mingled sarcasm and bitterness in his
voice, "I think your committee can't do better than advise the working-women of England generally
to make their homes more attractive to their husbands, and to lead the way yourselves."

"My dearest John," exclaimed his wife, a little taken aback, "you are cruelly hard upon us
poor ladies.  I declare you're getting positively spiteful.  I think we'd better change the
subject.--How did you leave our dear friends the Johnsons?  And what are they doing in the
north about the `strikes' and `trades-unions'?"

"Really," he replied wearily, "I must leave the `strikes' and such things to take care of themselves
just now.  The Johnsons send their love.  They were all well, and most kind and hospitable.
But, my dearest wife, I feel concerned about yourself; you look fagged and pale. Come, sit
down for a few minutes, and tell me all about it.  There, the fire's burning up a bit; and
now that I have got you for a while, I must not let you slip through my fingers.  Just lay
your bonnet down; you'll have plenty of time to dress for dinner.  I don't like these evening
meetings.  I am sure they are good for neither mind nor body.  You'll wear yourself out."

"Oh, nonsense, dear John; I never was better than I am now--only a little tired now and then.
But surely we are put into this world to do good; and it is better to wear out than to rust out."

"Not a doubt of it, my dearest Agnes; but it is quite possible to keep the rust away without
wearing yourself out at all; and, still more, without wearing yourself out prematurely.  At
the rate you are going on now, you will finish up your usefulness in a few years at the farthest,
instead of extending it, please God, over a long and peaceful life."

Mrs Prosser was silent for a few moments, and then she said: "Are you not a little unreasonable,
dear John?  What would you have me give up? If all were of your mind, what would become of
society?"

"Why, in that case, I believe that society would find itself on a much safer foundation, and
surrounded by a much healthier atmosphere.  But come, now, tell me, what are your engagements
for next week?"

"Why, not so many.  To-morrow is Christmas-day, you know, and the next day is Sunday, so that
I shall have quite a holiday, and a fine time for recruiting."

"Good!  And what on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, etcetera?"

"Let me see, John.  On Monday and Thursday mornings Clara Thompson and her sister come here,
and we read French, German, and Italian together; and on Monday evening we meet at Clara's
mother's to practise for the amateur concert.  On Tuesday morning I have promised to help poor
Miss Danvers."

"Miss Danvers!  Why, what help can she need from you?"

"Come, dearest John, don't be unfeeling; she is over head and ears in debt, and--"

"And do you mean that you are going to take her liabilities upon yourself?"

"Nonsense, John; you are laughing at me; it isn't kind.  I had not finished my sentence.  She
is overwhelmed with letter-debts, poor thing; and I promised to go and help her with her correspondence.
You know we are told in the Bible to `bear one another's burdens.'"

"True, my dearest wife; but the same high authority, if I remember rightly, bids us do our
own business first.  But what has entailed such an enormous amount of correspondence on Miss
Danvers?"

"Only her anxiety to do good.  She is secretary to some half-dozen ladies' societies for meeting
all sorts of wants and troubles.--Ah!  I see that cruel smile again on your face; but positively
you must not laugh at me nor her.  I am sure she is one of the noblest women I know."

"I won't question it for a moment, but I wish she could contrive to keep her benevolence within
such reasonable limits as would allow her to transact her own business without taxing her friends.
Anything more on Tuesday?"

"Nothing more, dearest, on Tuesday, away from home; but of course you know that I have to work
hard at my essay, my music, my drawing, and my little poem.  I see you shrug your shoulders,
but you must not be hard upon me.  Why was I taught all these things if I am to make no use
of them?"

"Why, indeed?" were the words which rose to the doctor's lips, but he did not utter them. 
He only smiled sadly, and asked, "What of Wednesday?"

"There, John, perhaps you had better look for yourself," she said, rather piqued at his manner,
and taking a little card from her pocket- book, she handed it to him.

Pressing her left hand lovingly in his own, he took the card from her, and read:--

"`Engagements.  Wednesday, 11 a.m.  Meet the professor at Mrs Maskelyne's.'--Mrs Maskelyne!
That's your strong-minded friend who goes in for muscular Christianity and vivisection!  I'm
very glad we don't keep a pet terrier or spaniel!"--"Ah, John, you may laugh, but she's a wonderful
woman!"--"`Wonderful!' perhaps so, dear Agnes,--an `awful' woman, I should say; that's only
a term expressive of a different kind of admiration.--`Concert in the evening.'

"Now for Thursday.  `At 12 o'clock, visit the hospital.  Jews' meeting in the evening.'

"`Friday, 10 a.m.  Club.  Afternoon, district visiting.'

"`Saturday, 3 p.m.  Mothers' meeting.'--Why, this mothers' meeting is something quite new.
I thought the vicar's wife took that."--"So she does, John; but, poor thing, she is so overworked,
that I could not refuse when she asked me to take it for her during the next three months."

"And is this sort of thing to go on perpetually?" asked the doctor in a despairing voice.

"Why should it not, dearest husband?  You would not have your wife a drone in these days, when
the world all round us is full of workers?"

"Certainly not; but I very much question if we have not gone mad on this subject of work--at
any rate as regards female workers."

"And would you, then, John, shut up people's hearts and hands?  I thought none knew better
than yourself what a vast field there is open for noble effort and service of every kind. 
Surely you ought to be the last person to discourage us."

"Nay, my beloved wife, you are not doing me justice," said the doctor warmly.  "What I am convinced
of is this--and the conviction gains strength with me every day--that good and loving women
like yourself are in grievous peril of marring and curtailing their real usefulness by attempting
too much.  If agencies for good are to be multiplied, let those who set new ones on foot seek
for their workers amongst those who are not already overburdened or fully occupied.  I cannot
help thinking that there is often much selfishness, or, to use a less harsh word, want of consideration,
in those who apply to ladies whose time is already fully and properly occupied, to join them
as workers in their pet schemes; for it is easier to try and enlist those who are known to
be zealous workers already, than to be at the pains of hunting out new ones.  I am sure no
one rejoices more than I do in the wonderful and complicated machinery for doing good which
exists on all sides in our land and day--I think it one of the most cheering signs and evidences
of real progress amongst us; but, for all that, if a person wants to launch a new ship, he
should have reasonable grounds for trusting that he shall be able to find hands to man her
without borrowing those from a neighbouring vessel, who have kept their watch through stormy
winds and waves, and ought, instead of doing extra duty, to be now resting in their hammocks."

Mrs Prosser was again silent for a while, and sat looking thoughtfully into the fire.  Then,
in rather a sorrowful voice, she said, "And what, then, dear John, do you think to be my duty?
I can't help feeling that there is a great deal in what you say.  I have not been really satisfied
with my own way of going on for some time past.  But what would you have me do?  What must
I give up?"

"I think," was his reply, "that the thing will settle itself, if you will only begin at the
right end."

"And which is that, dearest?"

"The home end.  Let your first and best energies be spent on the home; it will surely be happier
for us both.  And let the care of your own health, in the way of taking proper exercise, be
reckoned as a most important part of home duties.  Life is given us to use, and not to shorten.
Therefore, don't undertake anything which will unfit you for the due performance of these home
duties.  You have no just call to any such undertaking.  Do that which is the manifest work
lying at your hand, and I feel sure you will be guided aright as to what other work you can
find time and strength for."

"Well, John, I will think it well over; I am glad we have had this conversation."

"So am I, my precious wife; I am sure good will come of it.  And you know we have an invitation
to visit the Maltbys in the spring: we shall be sure to get some words of valuable counsel
there.  I don't want to hinder you from doing good out of your own home; I don't want selfishly
to claim all your energies for home work, and my own convenience and comfort: but I do feel
strongly, and more and more strongly every day, that there is a tendency at the present day
to make an idol of woman's work; to keep, too, the bow perpetually on the stretch; to drag
wives, mothers, and daughters from their home duties into public, and to give them no rest,
but bid them strain every nerve, and gallop, gallop till they die."

"Perhaps so, John; but it is time for me to go up and dress for dinner."

CHAPTER FOUR.

TOMMY TRACKS.

No one was more universally respected or more vigorously abused in Crossbourne than "Tommy
Tracks," as he was sneeringly called.  His real name was Thomas Bradly.  He was not a native
of Crossbourne, but had resided in that town for some five years past at the time when our
story opens.  As he was a capital workman, and had two sons growing up into young men who were
also very skilful hands, it was thought quite natural that he should have come to settle down
in Crossbourne, where skilled labour was well remunerated.  As to where he came from, some
said one thing, some another.  He was very reserved on the matter himself, and so people soon
ceased to ask him about it.

Thomas was undoubtedly an oddity, but his eccentricities were of a kind which did no one any
harm, and only served to add force to his words and example.  He was an earnest Christian,
and as earnest an abstainer from all intoxicating drinks; and his family walked with him on
the narrow gospel way, and in their adherence to temperance principles and practice.  He was
also superintendent of the church Sunday-school, and the very life of the Temperance Society
and Band of Hope, of both which associations the vicar, who was himself an abstainer, was the
president. Indeed, he was the clergyman's right-hand in the carrying out of every good work
in the place.  He was something of a reader of such sterling and profitable works as came in
his way, but his Bible was his chief study.

His special characteristics were a clear head, a large stock of shrewd common sense, and an
invincible love of truth and straightforwardness, so that he could hold his ground against
any man in the place, William Foster the styptic not excepted.  Not that Bradly was at all
fond of an argument; he avoided one when he could do so consistently, preferring to do good
by just sowing seeds of truth in his own humble way, leaving it to God to deal with the tares
and weeds.

One of his favourite modes of sowing was to carry along with him at all times a little bundle
of religious and temperance tracts, and to offer these whenever he had an opportunity, commonly
accompanying the offer with some quaint remark which would often overcome the reluctance to
accept them, even in those who were opposed to his principles and practice.  From this habit
of his he was generally known among the working-classes of Crossbourne by the nickname of "Tommy
Tracts," or "Tracks," as it was usually pronounced--an epithet first given in scorn, but afterwards
generally used without any unkindly feeling.  Indeed, he was rather proud of it than otherwise;
nor could the taunts and gibes which not unfrequently accompanied it ever ruffle in the least
his good- humoured self-possession.

His family, which consisted of himself, his wife, their two sons, and a daughter, all grown
up, and an invalid sister of his own, lived in a comfortable house on the outskirts of the town.

This house he had built for himself out of the profits of his own industry.  Like its owner,
it was rather of an eccentric character, having been constructed on an original plan of his
own, and, in consequence, differed from any other dwelling-house in the town.  Of course, he
was not left without abundance of comments on his architectural taste, many of them being anything
but complimentary, and all of them outspoken.  This moved him nothing.  "Well, if the house
pleases me," he said to his critics, "I suppose it don't matter much what fashion it's of,
so long as the chimney-pots is outside, and the fire-places in."  Not that there was anything
grand or ambitious in its outward appearance, nor sufficiently peculiar to draw any special
attention to it.  It was rather wider in front than the ordinary working-men's cottages, and
had a stone parapet above the upper windows, running the whole length of the building, on which
were painted, in large black letters, the words, "Bradly's Temperance Hospital."

As might have been expected, this inscription brought on him a storm of ridicule and reproach,
which he took very quietly; but if any one asked him in a civil way what he meant by the words,
his reply used to be, "Any confirmed drunkard's welcome to come to my house for advice gratis,
and I'll warrant to make a perfect cure of him, if he'll only follow my prescription."  And
when further asked what that prescription might be, he would reply, "Just this: let the patient
sign the pledge, and keep it."  And many a poor drunkard, whom he had lured up to his house,
and then pleaded and prayed with earnestly, had already proved the efficacy of this remedy.

When blamed by foes or friends for misleading people by putting such words on his house, he
would say--"Where's the harm?  Haven't I as much right to call my house `Temperance Hospital'
as Ben Roberts has to call his public `The Staff of Life'?  What has his `Staff of Life' done?
Why, to my certain knowledge, it has just proved a broken staff, and let down scores of working-men
into the gutter.  But my `Temperance Hospital' has helped back many a poor fellow out of the
gutter, and set him on his feet again.  It's a free hospital, too, and we're never full; we
takes all patients as comes."

The inside of the house was as suggestive of Thomas's principles and eccentricities of character
as the outside.

The front door opened into a long and narrow hall, lighted by a fan- light.  As you entered,
your eyes would naturally fall on the words, "Picture Gallery," facing you, on the farther
wall, just over the entrance to the kitchen.  This "picture gallery" was simply the hall itself,
which had something of the appearance of a photographer's studio, the walls being partly covered
with portraits large and small, interspersed with texts of Scripture, pledge-cards bearing
the names of himself and family, and large engravings from the British Workman, coloured by
one of his sons to give them greater effect.  The photographs were chiefly likenesses of those
who had been his own converts to total abstinence, with here and there the portrait of some
well-known temperance advocate.

To the left of the hall was the parlour or company sitting-room, which was adorned with portraits,
or what were designed to be such, of the Queen and other members of the royal family.  Over
the fire-place was a handsome mirror, on either side of which were photographs of the vicar
and his wife; and on the opposite side of the room stood a bookcase with glass doors, containing
a small but judicious selection of volumes, religious, historical, biographical, and scientific:
for Thomas Bradly was a reader in a humble way, and had a memory tenacious of anything that
struck him.  But the pride of this choice apartment was an enormous illustrated Bible, sumptuously
bound, which lay on the middle of a round table that occupied the centre of the room.

The kitchen, however, was the real daily living-place of the family.  It had been built of
unusually large dimensions, in order to accommodate a goodly number of temperance friends,
or of the members of the Band of Hope, who occasionally met there.  Over the doors and windows
were large texts in blue, and over the ample fire-place, in specially large letters of the
same colour, the words, "Do the next thing."

Many who called on Thomas Bradly, and saw this maxim for the first time, were rather puzzled
to know what it meant.  "What is `the next thing'?" they would ask.  "Why, it's just this,"
he would reply: "the next thing is the thing nearest to your hand.  Just do the thing as comes
nearest to hand, and be content to do that afore you concern yourself about anything else.
These words has saved me a vast of trouble and worry.  I've read somewhere as `worry' is one
of the specially prominent troubles of our day.  I think that's true enough. Well, now, I've
found my motto there--`Do the next thing'--a capital remedy for worry.  Sometimes I've come
down of a morning knowing as I'd a whole lot of things to get done, and I've been strongly
tempted to make a bundle of them, and do them all at once, or try, at any rate, to do three
or four of 'em at the same time.  But then I've just cast my eyes on them words, and I've said
to myself, `All right, Thomas Bradly; you just go and do the next thing;' and I've gone and
done it, and after that I've done the next thing, and so on till I've got through the whole
bundle."

Opposite the broad kitchen-range was a plate-rack well filled with serviceable chinaware, and
which formed the upper part of a dresser or plain deal sideboard.  Above the rack, and near
the ceiling, were the words, "One step at a time."

This and the maxim over the fire-place he used to call his "two walking- sticks."  Thus, meeting
a fellow-workman one day who had lately come to Crossbourne, about whose character for steadiness
he had strong suspicions, and who seemed always in a hurry, and yet as if he could never fairly
overtake his work--

"James," he said to him, "you should borrow my two walking-sticks."

"Walking-sticks!--what for?" asked the other.

"Why, you'll be falling one of these days if you hurry so; and my two walking-sticks would
be a great help to you."  The other stared at him, quite unable to make out his meaning.

"Walking-sticks, Tommy Tracks!  You don't seem to stand in need of them. I never see you with
a stick in your hand."

"For all that I make use of them every day, James; and if you'll step into my house any night
I'll show them to you: for I can't spare them out of the kitchen, though I never go to my work
without them."

"Some foolery or other!" exclaimed the man he addressed, roughly. Nevertheless his curiosity
was excited, and he stopped Bradly at his door one evening, saying "he was come to see his
two walking-sticks."

"Good--very good," said the other.  "Come in.  There, sit you down by the table--and, missus,
give us each a cup of tea.  Now, you just look over the chimney-piece.  There's one of my walking-sticks:
`Do the next thing.'  And, now, look over the dresser.  There's the other walking- stick: `One
step at a time'.  And I'll just tell you how to use them. It don't require any practice.  When
you've half-a-dozen things as wants doing, and can't all be done at once, just you consider
which of 'em all ought to be done first.  That's `the next thing.'  Go straight ahead at that,
and don't trouble a bit about the rest till that's done.  That's one stick as'll help you to
walk through a deal of work with very little bustle and worry.  And, James, just be content
in all you do to be guided by the great Master as owns us all, the Lord Jesus Christ, who bought
us for himself with his own blood.  Just be willing to follow him, and let him lead you `one
step at a time,' and don't want to see the place for the next step till you've put your foot
where he tells you.  You'll find that a rare stout walking-stick.  You may lean your whole
weight on it, and it won't give way; and it'll help you in peace through the trials of this
life, and on the road to a better."

Such was Thomas Bradly's kitchen.  Many a happy gathering was held there, and many a useful
lesson learned in it.

But, besides the rooms already mentioned, there was one adjoining the kitchen which was specially
Thomas Bradly's own.  It was of considerable size, and was entered from the inside by a little
door out of the kitchen.  This door was commonly locked, and the key kept by Bradly himself.
The more usual approach to it was from the outside.  Its external appearance did not exactly
contribute to the symmetry of the whole premises; but that was a matter of very small moment
to its proprietor, who had added it on for a special purpose.  The house itself was on the
hill-side, on the outskirts of the town, as has been said. There was a little bit of garden
in front and on either side, so that it could not be built close up to.  At present it had
no very near neighbours.  A little gate in the low wall which skirted the garden, on the left
hand as you faced the house, allowed any visitor to have access to the outer door of Bradly's
special room without going through the garden up the front way.  On this outer door was painted
in white letters, "Surgery."

"Do you mend broken bones, Tommy Tracks?" asked a working-man of not very temperate or moral
habits soon after this word had been painted on the door.  "If you do, I think we may perhaps
give you a job before long, as it'll be Crossbourne Wakes next Sunday week."

"No," was Bradly's reply; "I mend broken hearts, and put drunkards' homes into their proper
places when they've got out of joint."

"Indeed!  You'll be clever to do that, Tommy."

"Ah!  You don't know, Bill.  P'raps you'll come and try my skill yourself afore long."

The other turned away with a scornful laugh and a gibe; but the arrow had hit its mark.  But,
indeed, what Thomas Bradly said was true. Broken hearts and dislocated families had been set
to rights in that room.  There would appointments be kept by wretched used-up sots, who would
never have been persuaded to ask for Bradly at the ordinary door of entrance; and there on
his knees, with the poor conscience-stricken penitent bowed beside him, would Thomas pour out
his simple but fervent supplications to Him who never "broke a bruised reed, nor quenched the
smoking flax."  And mothers, too, the slaves of the drink-fiend, had found in that room liberty
from their chains.  Here, too, would the vicar preside over meetings of the Temperance and
Band of Hope Committees.

The room was snugly fitted up with a long deal table, as clean as constant scrubbing could
make it, and boasted of a dozen windsor-chairs and two long benches.  There were two cupboards
also, one on each side of a small but brightly burnished grate.  In one of these, pledge-books,
cards for members, and temperance tracts and books were kept; in the other was a stock of Bibles,
New Testaments, prayer-books, hymn-books, and general tracts.  A few well-chosen coloured Scripture
prints and illuminated texts adorned the walls; and everything in Bradly's house was in the
most perfect order.  You would not find a chair awry, nor books lying loose about, nor so much
as a crumpled bit of paper thrown on the floor of his "Surgery," nor indeed anywhere about
the premises.

When a neighbour once said to him, "I see, Tommy Tracks, you hold with the saying, `Cleanliness
is next to godliness,'"--"Nay, I don't," was his reply.  "I read it another way: `Cleanliness
is a part of godliness.'  I can't understand a dirty or disorderly Christian-- leastways, it's
very dishonouring to the Master; for dirt and untidiness and confusion are types and pictures
of sin.  A true Christian ought to be clean and tidy outside as well as in.  Christ's servants
should look always cleaner and neater than any one else; for aren't we told to adorn the doctrine
of God our Saviour in all things?  And don't dirtiness and untidiness in Christians bring a
reproach on religion?  And then, if things are out of their place--all sixes and sevens--why,
it's just setting a trap for your feet.  You'll stumble, and lose your temper and your time,
and fuss the life out of other people too, if things aren't in their proper places, and you
can't lay hold of a thing just when you want it.  It's waste of precious time and precious
peace, and them's what Christians can't afford to lose.  Why, Jenny Bates, poor soul, used
to lose her temper, and she'd scarce find it afore she lost it again, and just because she
never had anything in decent order.  And yet she were a godly woman; but her light kept dancing
about, instead of shining steadily, as it ought to have done, just because she never knew where
to put her hand on anything she wanted, and everything was in her way and in her husband's
way, except what they was looking for at the time. It's a fine thing when you can stick by
the rule, `A place for everything, and everything in its place.'"

But now it is not to be supposed for a moment that a man like Thomas Bradly could escape without
a great deal of persecution in such a place as Crossbourne.  All sorts of hard names were heaped
upon him by those who were most rebuked by a life so manifestly in contrast to their own. Many
gnashed upon him with their teeth, and would have laid violent hands on him had they dared.
Sundry little spiteful tricks also were played off upon him.  Thus, one morning he found that
the word "Surgery" had been obliterated from his private door, and the word "Tomfoolery" painted
under it.  He let this pass for a while unnoticed and unremedied, and then restored the original
word; and as his friends and the police were on the watch, the outrage was not repeated.  All
open scoffs and insults he took very quietly, sometimes just remarking, when any one called
him "canting hypocrite," or the like, that "he was very thankful to say that it wasn't true."

But besides this, he had an excellent way of his own in dealing with annoyances and persecutions,
which turned them to the best account.  At the back of a shelf, in one of the cupboards in
his "Surgery," he kept a small box, on the lid of which he had written the word "Pills."  When
some word or act of special unkindness or bitterness had been his lot, he would scrupulously
avoid all mention of it to his wife or children on his return home, but would retire into his
"Surgery," write on a small piece of paper the particulars of the act or insult, with the name
of the doer or utterer, and put it into the box.  Then, at the end of each month, he would
lock himself into his room, take out the box, read over the papers, which were occasionally
pretty numerous, and spread them out in prayer, like Hezekiah, before the Lord, asking him
that these hard words and deeds might prove as medicine to his soul to keep him humble and
watchful, and begging, at the same time, for the conversion and happiness of his persecutors.

Nor would his nearest and dearest have ever known of this original way of dealing with his
troubles, had not his wife accidentally come upon the "pill-box" one day, when he had sent
her to replace a book in the cupboard for him.  Well acquainted as she was with most of his
oddities, she was utterly at a loss to comprehend the box and its contents.  On opening the
lid, she thought at first that the box contained veritable medicine; but seeing, on closer
inspection, that there was nothing inside but little pieces of paper neatly rolled up, her
curiosity was, not unnaturally, excited, and she unfolded half-a-dozen of them.  What could
they mean?  There was writing on each strip, and it was in her husband's hand.  She read as
follows: "Sneaking scoundrel.  John Thompson"--"Jim Taylor set his dog at me"--"Hypocritical
humbug; you take your glass on the sly.  George Walters!"--and so on.

She returned the papers to the box, and in the evening asked her husband, when they were alone,
what it all meant.  "Oh!  So you've found me out, Mary," he said, laughing.  "Well, it means
just this: I never bring any of these troubles indoors to you and the children; you've got
quite enough of your own.  So I keep them for the Lord to deal with; and when I've got a month's
stock, I just read them over.  It's as good as a medicine to see what people say of me.  And
then I throw 'em all into the fire, and they're gone from me for ever; and when I've added
a word of prayer for them as has done me the wrong, I come away with my heart as light as a
feather."

It need hardly be said that Mrs Bradly was more than satisfied with this solution of the puzzle.

CHAPTER FIVE.

A DISCUSSION.

If there was one man more than another whom William Foster the sceptic both disliked and feared,
it was "Tommy Tracks."  Not that he would have owned to such a fear for a moment.  He tried
to persuade himself that he despised him; but there was that about Bradly's life and character
which he was forced to respect, and before which his spirit within him bowed and quailed spite
of himself.

Thomas Bradly, though possessed of but a very moderate share of book- learning, was pretty
well aware that it required no very deep line to reach the bottom of Foster's acquirements;
and so, while he preferred, as a rule, to avoid any open controversy with William, or any of
his party, he never shrunk from a fair stand-up contest when he believed that his Master's
honour and the truth required it.

One evening, a few days after the mysterious appearance of the little Bible in his own house,
Foster, as he was coming home from his work, encountered Bradly at the open door of the blacksmith's
forge with a bundle of tracts in his hand.

"Still trying to do us poor sinners good, I see," sneered Foster.

"Yes, if you'll let me," said the other, offering a tract.

"None of your nonsensical rubbish for me," was the angry reply, as the speaker turned away.

"I never carries either nonsense or rubbish," rejoined Thomas.  "My tracts are all of 'em good
solid sense; they are taken out of God's holy Word, or are agreeable to the same."

"What!  The Bible?  What sensible man now believes in that Bible of yours?  It's a failure;
it has been demonstrated to be a failure.  All enlightened men, even many among your own Christians,
are giving it up as a failure now,"--saying which in a tone of triumph, as he looked round
on a little knot of working-men who were gathering about the smithy door, he seated himself
on an upturned cart which was waiting to be repaired, and looked at his opponent for a reply.

Thomas Bradly, nothing daunted, sat him down very deliberately on a large smooth stone on the
opposite side of the doorway, and remarked quietly, "As to the Bible's being a failure, I suppose
that depends very much on experience.  I've got an eight-day clock in our house.  I bought
it for a very good one, and gave a very good price for it, just before I set up housekeeping.
A young fellow calls the other day, when I happened to be in, and he wants me to buy a new-fashioned
sort of clock of him.  `Well, if I do,' says I, `what'll you allow me for my old clock, then,
as part payment?'  So he goes over and looks at it, and turns up his nose at it, and says,
`'Tain't worth the trouble of taking away: you shall have one of the right sort cheap; that
clumsy, old- fashioned thing'll never do you no good.'--`Well,' says I, `that's just as people
find.  That old clock has served me well, and kept the best of time these five and twenty years,
and it don't show any signs of being worse for wear yet.  So I'll stick to the old clock still,
if you please, and take my time by it as I've been used to do.'  And the old- fashioned Bible's
just like my old clock.  You tell me as it's proved to be a failure.  I tell you it isn't a
failure, for I've tried it, and proved it for more years than I've tried my clock, and it never
yet failed me."

"Perhaps not, Tommy," said Foster; "that's what you call your experience; but for all that,
it has proved a failure generally."

"How do you make out that, William?  I can find you a score of families in Crossbourne as the
Bible hasn't failed, and their neighbours know it too."

"Ah!  Very likely; but what I mean is this: it has proved a failure when its power and truth
have come to be tested in other parts of the world-- that's the general and almost universal
experience, in fact."

"Well, now, that's strange," replied Bradly, "to hear a man talk in that way in our days, when
there's scarce a language in the known world that the Bible hasn't been turned into, so that
all the wide world own it has been bringing light and peace into thousands of hearts and homes--
there's no contradicting that; and that's a strange sort of failure-- summat like old John
Wrigley's failure that folks were talking about; he failed by dying worth just half a million."

"Well, but when we men of science and observation say that the Bible is a failure, we mean
that it hasn't accomplished what it should have done supposing it to be a revelation from the
Supreme Being."

"Ah, you are right there, William!  I quite agree with you."

"Do you hear him, mates?" cried Foster triumphantly.  "He owns he's beaten."

"Not a bit of it," cried Bradly.  "What I grant you is this, and no more: the Bible hasn't
done all it should have done, and would have done.  But why?  Just because men wouldn't let
it: as our Saviour said when he was upon earth, `Ye will not come unto me that ye might have
life.'  That's man's fault, not the Bible's."

"Ah, but if the Bible had really been a revelation from heaven, it ought to have converted
all the world by this time, Tommy Tracks."

"What!  Whether men would or no?  Nay; that's making men mere machines, without any will of
their own.  If men hear the Bible, and still choose to walk in wicked ways, who's to blame?
Certainly not the Bible."

"That won't do, Tommy.  What I mean is this: men of real science and knowledge declare that
your Bible has proved to be a failure just because Christianity has not accomplished what the
Bible professed that it would accomplish."

"Indeed!" said the other quietly; "how so?  I think, William, you're shifting your ground a
bit.  But what has the Bible claimed for the Christian religion which Christianity has not
accomplished?"

"Why, just look here, Tommy.  Now, Professor Tyndall, one of the greatest scientific men of
the day, says that you've only to look at the wars that still go on between civilised nations
to see that the angels' song has not been fulfilled--that the gospel has failed to bring about
universal peace.  And so you see the Christian Bible has not accomplished what it professed
to accomplish."

"Stop a bit--softly!" said the other; "let's take one thing at a time. Professor Tyndall may
understand a great deal about science, but it don't follow that he knows much about the Bible.
But now I'll make bold to take the very wars that have been going on in your time and mine,
and call them up to give evidence just the other way.  Mind you, I'm not saying a word in favour
of wars.  I only wish people would be content to fight with my weapons, and no others; and
that's just simply with the Bible itself--`the sword of the Spirit,' as the Scripture calls
it.  But now, you just listen to this letter from a newspaper correspondent in the war between
the Prussians and the French.  I cut it out, and here it is:--

"`This afternoon I witnessed a very touching scene.  A French soldier of the Thirty-third Line
Regiment, belonging to the corps of General Frossard, had been made prisoner at the outposts.
He is a native of Jouy-aux-Arches, where his wife and children now reside.  On his way to Corny,
where the head-quarters of the prince are now situated, he asked permission to be allowed to
see his wife and children.  Need I say that the request was immediately granted?  The poor
woman, half delirious with joy, asked to be allowed to accompany her husband at least to Corny.
This was also acceded to.  But then came the difficulty about the bairns.  The woman was weak,
and could not carry her baby, and at home there was no one to mind it.  As for the little chap
of five, he could toddle along by his father's side.  The difficulty was, however, overcome
by a great big Pomeranian soldier, who volunteered to act as nurse.  This man had been quartered
close to the poor woman's house; and the little ones knew him, for he had often played with
them.  When therefore, bidding the poor wife be of good cheer, he held out his big strong arms
to the little infant, it came to him immediately, and nestling its tiny head upon his shoulders,
seemed perfectly content.  So did the Prussian soldier carry the Frenchman's child.  When I
first saw the group, the wife was clasped in her husband's embrace; the little boy clung to
his father's hand; while the Prussian soldier, with the baby in his arms, stalked along by
their sides.  Then the Frenchwoman told her husband how, when she had been ill and in want
of food, the Prussian soldiers had shared their rations with her, had fetched wood and water,
had lit the fire, and helped her in their own rough, kindly way; until at last those two men,
who belonged to countries now arrayed against each other in bitterest hate--who perhaps a few
days since fought the one against the other--embraced like brothers, while I, like a great
big fool, stood by and cried like a baby.  But I was not alone in my folly, if folly it be:
several Prussian officers and soldiers followed my example, for we all had wives and children
in far-off homes.'

"Now, I ask you all, friends, to give me an honest answer: could such a thing have happened
if those countries, France and Prussia, hadn't both of 'em been enjoying the light that comes
from the Bible--as Christian nations by profession, at any rate--for long years past?  You've
only to look at wars between nations that know nothing of the Bible to get an answer to that."

"You had him there, Tommy," cried one of the auditory, considerably delighted at Foster's evident
discomfiture.

But the latter returned to the charge, saying, "All very fine, Tommy Tracks; but you haven't
fully answered my objection."

"I know it," was Bradly's reply.  "I understand that you deny that the Bible is a revelation
from God because it has failed, (so you say) to do what it professes to do."

"Just so."

"Well, what does it profess to do?"

"Doesn't it profess to convert all the world?"

"How soon?"

"Before the Second Advent, as you call it."

"Show me, William, where it says so."

So saying, Bradly handed a little Bible to his opponent, who took it very reluctantly; while
those around, being much interested, and at the same time amused, exclaimed,--

"Ay, to be sure!  Show it him, William; show it him!"

"Not I," said Foster, endeavouring to hide his annoyance and confusion by an assumption of
scorn; "it's not in my line to hunt for texts."

"True," said Thomas quietly; "if it had been, you wouldn't have made such a blunder.--He can't
find it, friends, for it ain't written so in the Bible.  Before the Lord comes again he'll
gather out his own people from all nations.  But that's not at all the same as converting all
the world; that's not to be till after his coming again, according to the Bible.  And this
is just what's happening now in different countries all over the world; exactly according to
the teaching of the Bible, neither more nor less.  So he hasn't proved his point, friends; has he?"

"No, no!" was the universal cry.

But William Foster, though sorely angry, and conscious that his arrows had utterly failed of
hitting their mark, was determined not to be driven ingloriously out of the field; his pride
could not endure that. So, smothering his wrath, he turned again to Bradly and said,--

"Here, give us one of your precious tracts, man."  The other immediately handed him one.

"Now see, mates," continued Foster, "what I've got here--`The Power of Prayer.'  See how it
begins `Prayer moves the arm that moves the world.' And you believe that, Tommy Tracks?"

"Yes," was the reply; "I believe it; and more than that, I know it--I know that it's true."

"And how do you know it?"

"Well, now, let me tell you, friend Bradly, that it's all a delusion."

"You're at liberty, William, to tell me what you like; but I can tell you that it's no such
thing as a delusion, for I've proved it myself to be a blessed truth."

"What!  You mean to say that your own prayers have been answered?"

"I do mean to say so, William.  There's nothing like experience.  I can tell you what I know
myself.  I've put the Lord to the proof over and over again, and he has never failed me.  I've
always had what I needed."

"Hear him!" cried Foster, derisively.  "Why, it isn't a week ago that I heard him myself tell
John Rowe that he'd like to build another cottage on the bit of land he bought last year, only
he couldn't afford it just at present.  And now he says he has only to pray for a thing, and
he can get whatever he likes.--Why didn't you pray for the money to build the new cottage, Tommy?"

"Not so fast, William; a reasoning and scientific man like yourself ought to stick close to
the truth.  Now, I never said as I could get whatever I liked--though I might have said that
too without being wrong; for when I've found out clearly what's the Lord's will, I can say
with the old shepherd, `I can have what I please, because what pleases God pleases me.'  What
I said was this: that I always got what I needed when I prayed for a thing."

"Well, and where's the difference?"

"A vast deal of difference, William.  I never pray for any of this world's good things without
putting in, `if God sees it best for me to have it.'  And then I know that, if it is really
good for me, I shall get it, and that'll be what I need; and if he sees as I'm better without
it, he'll give me contentment and peace, and often something much better than what I asked
for, and which I never expected, and that'll be giving me in answer to prayer what I need."

"Then it seems to me," said the other, sneeringly, "that you may just as well let the prayer
alone altogether, for you don't really get what you would like, and you can't be sure what
it is you really want."

"Nay, not so, William Foster; my Bible says, `Be careful for nothing, but in everything by
prayer and supplication with thanksgiving let your requests be made known unto God.'  I just
go and do this, and over and over again I've got the thing I naturally liked; and it's only
been now and then, when God knew I should be better without the thing I fancied, that he kept
it back.  But then I always got something better for me instead, and the peace of God with it."

"And you call that getting answers to prayer from a heavenly Father?" said Foster derisively.

"I do," was Bradly's reply.  "My heavenly Father deals with me in the same way as I used to
deal with my children when they was little, and for the same reason--because he loves me, and
knows better than I do what's good for me.  When our Dick were a little thing, only just able
to walk, he comes one evening close up to the table while I was shaving, and makes a snatch
at my razor.  I caught his little hand afore he could get hold; and says I, `No, Dick, you
mustn't have that; you'll hurt yourself with it.'  Not that there was any harm in the razor
itself, but it would have been harm to him, though he didn't know it then.  Well, Dick was
just ready to cry; but he looks at me, and sees a smile on my face, and toddles off into the
garden; and an hour after I went and took him a great blunt knife as he couldn't hurt himself
with, and he was soon as happy as a king, rooting about in the cabbage-bed with it.  I did
it because I loved him; and he came to understand that, after a bit. And that's the way our
heavenly Father deals with all his loving and obedient children."

There was a little murmur of approval when Bradly ceased, which was very distasteful to Foster,
who began to move off, growling out that, "it was no use arguing with a man who was quite behind
the age, and couldn't appreciate nor understand the difficulties and conclusions of deeper
thinkers."

"Just one word more, friends, on this subject," said Bradly, not noticing his opponent's last
disparaging remarks.  "William said, a little while ago, as it's all fancy on my part when
I gave him my own experience about answers to prayer.  Well, if it's fancy, it's a very pleasant
fancy, and a very profitable fancy too; and I should like him to tell me what his learned scientific
authors, that he brags so much about, has to give me instead of it, if I take their word for
it as it's all fancy, and give over praying.  Now, suppose I'm told as there's a man living
over at Sunnyside as is able and willing to give me everything I want, if I only ask him. 
I go to his door, and knock; but he don't let me see him.  I say through the keyhole, `I want
a loaf of bread.'  He opens the door just so far as to make room for his hand, and there's
a loaf of bread in it for me.  I go to him again, and tell him through the door as I wants
some medicine to cure one of my children as is sick.  The hand is put out with medicine in
it, and the medicine makes a cure.  I go again, and say I want a letter of recommendation for
my son to get a place as porter on the railway.  There's no hand put out this time; but I hear
a voice say, `Come every day for a week.'  So I go every day, and knock; and the last day the
hand's put out, and it gives me a letter to a gentleman, who puts my son into a situation twice
as good as the one I asked for him.  Now, suppose I'd gone on in this way for years, always
getting what I asked for, or something better instead, do you think any one would ever persuade
me as it were only fancy after all; that the friend I called on so often wasn't my friend at
all, that he'd never heard or listened to a word I said, and had never given me anything in
all my life?  Now, that's just how the matter stands.  It's no use talking to a man as knows
what effectual prayer is, about the constancy of the laws of nature, and such like.  He knows
better; he has put the Lord of nature and all its laws to the proof, and so may you too.  I'll
just leave with you one text out of the Scripture as'll weigh down a warehouseful of your sceptical
and philosophical books; and it's this: `Ask, and it shall be given you; seek, and ye shall
find; knock, and it shall be opened unto you.'"

Not a word more was spoken on either side, and the party broke up.

CHAPTER SIX.

THE VICAR OF CROSSBOURNE.

Of all the true friends of "Tommy Tracks" none valued and loved him more than the Reverend
Ernest Maltby, vicar of Crossbourne.  There is a peculiar attraction in such men to one another,
which cements their friendship all the more strongly from the very dissimilarity of their social
positions.  For each feels dependent on the other, and that the other possesses gifts or powers
of which he himself is destitute.  The refined Christian scholar, while in perfect spiritual
accord with the man of rougher mould and scanty learning, feels that his humbler brother is
able to get at his fellow-workmen for good, as being on the same level with them, in a way
denied to himself.  While, on the other hand, the man of inferior education and position is
conscious that all real increase in knowledge is increase in power, and that his brother of
higher-station and more extensive reading can grasp and deal effectually with topics of interest
and importance, which could not be done justice to by his own less skilful and less intelligent
handling.  And thus, as each leans in a measure on the other, being in entire sympathy as they
are on highest things, the force of their united action on the hearts and lives of others is
powerful indeed.  Such was the case in Crossbourne.  The combined work of the vicar and Thomas
Bradly, both for the salvation of souls and the rescue and reformation of the intemperate,
was being felt by the enemies of the truth to be a work of power: they were therefore on the
watch to hinder and mar that work by every means within their reach; for Satan will not lose
any of his captives without setting his own agents on a most determined and vigorous resistance.

The vicar himself was just the fitting man for his position.  Gently yet not luxuriously nurtured,
and early trained in habits of self-denial and consideration for the feelings of others, he
had entered the ministry, not only with a due sense of the solemnity of his responsibilities,
and under a conviction that he was truly called to his profession by the inward voice of the
Holy Spirit, but also with a loving self- forgetfulness, while he sought earnestly the truest
welfare of all committed to his charge.  And when he passed, after some years' experience in
the ministerial Work, to the important post of vicar of Crossbourne, he had come to take a
peculiar interest in the study of individual character, and to delight in gathering around
him workers of various temperaments and habits of thought.  Rugged enough were some of these
in their general bearing and their way of expressing themselves; but he knew well, when he
had broken through the outer surface, what a firm-grained material he had to work upon in the
hearts of such, and how he would be sure to win from them, in due time, by force and consistency
of character, respect and affection as abiding as they were sincere.

It was his happiness also to be united to a wife like-minded with himself in views and work.
On one point alone they had differed, and that was as to the mental training of their only
child, a daughter.

Clara Maltby was now eighteen.  She had been brought up by the united teaching and example
of both parents "in the nurture and admonition of the Lord."  Naturally thoughtful and retiring,
and fond of learning, she had mastered the lessons taught her in her earliest years with an
ease which awoke in her mother's heart an ambition that her child, when she grew old enough,
should gain some intellectual distinction.  And as Clara herself was never happier than when
she had a book in her hand, all that her parents had to do was to choose for her such branches
of study as she was best calculated to shine in.  Nor did she disappoint her teachers, but
threw herself into her lessons with an energy and interest which made it certain that she would
rise to eminence among competitors for the prizes of learning proposed to her own sex.  And
thus it was that what might have been a rational thirst after knowledge, and have led to the
acquirement of stores of information which would have made their possessor an ornament to her
home and to the society in which she moved, grew into an absorbing passion.

She came at length to live in and for her studies.  All her other pursuits and occupations
were made to be subordinate to these, and were by degrees completely swallowed up by them.
Not that she was unaware that there were duties which she ought to fulfil in her home and in
her father's parish, which could not be done justice to without shortening her hours of study.
She saw this plainly enough, and deplored her neglect; but she had come to persuade herself
that success in her intellectual pursuits was the special end at which she was to aim for the
present; and she believed that her mother, at any rate, held the same view.

And yet her conscience was not at ease on the matter.  Home and parish work which used to fall
to her was either left undone or transferred to others.  "Mother," she would say, "I am so
sorry not to be of more use; I ought to help you, and to take my share of work in the parish;
but then you know how it is--you see that I have no time."  Once her class in the Sunday-school
had been her delight, and the object of many an anxious thought and earnest prayer, while each
individual scholar had a place in her heart and her supplications.  But by degrees the preparation
for the Sunday lessons became irksome and too much for her already overworked brain.  She must
make the Sabbath a day of absolute rest from all mental exertion, except such as was involved
in a due attendance on the services in the house of God, which her conscience would not allow
her to absent from.

As for week-day work in the parish, such as taking her turn in visiting the girls' day-school,
undertaking a district as visitor, looking up and tending the sick and the sorrowful in conjunction
with her father and mother, the excuse of "no time" was pleaded here also; so that she who
was once welcomed in every home in the parish, and carried peace by her loving words and looks
to many a troubled and weary heart, was now becoming daily more and more a stranger to those
who used to love and value her.  Indeed, she seldom now stirred from home, except when snatching
for health's sake a hasty walk, in which she would hurry from the vicarage and back again along
roads where she was least likely to meet with interruption from the greetings of friends or
neighbours.

Light, purer light, the light of God's truth, had indeed shone into her heart, but that light
was suffering a gradual and deepening eclipse through the shadow cast by the idol of intellectual
ambition, which had usurped for a while the place where once her Saviour reigned supreme. And
the poor body was suffering, for the overstrained mind was sapping the vigour of all its powers.
And then there came a resort to that remedy, the stimulant which spurs up the flagging energies
to extraordinary and spasmodic exertion, only to leave the poor deluded victim more prostrate
and exhausted than ever.

The vicar had never been satisfied with his daughter's course.  Life, in his view, was too
short and eternity too near to justify any one in pursuing even the most innocent and laudable
object in such a manner as to unfit the soul for keeping steadily in view its highest interests,
and to engross the mind and life so entirely as to shut all the doors of loving and Christian
usefulness.  While acknowledging the value of storing, cultivating, and enlarging the mind,
he became daily more and more convinced that such mental improvement was becoming a special
snare to the young and enthusiastic; beguiling them into the neglect of manifest duty, and
into a refined and subtle self-worship, which, in the case of those who had set out on the
narrow way, was changing the substance for a shadow, and destroying that peace which none can
truly feel who rob their Saviour of the consecration of all that they have and are to his glory.

But deeply as he deplored the change in his daughter's habits, and her withdrawal from first
one good work and then another, he had not fully realised how it had come about, and the mischief
it was doing to the body, mind, and soul of the child he loved so dearly.  It was only gradually
that she had relinquished first one useful occupation, and then another; and circumstances
seemed at the time to make such withdrawal necessary.

Then, too, his wife's reluctance to see that, after all, she had mistaken the path on which
she should have encouraged her daughter to travel, had led her to make as light as possible
of the evil effects, which were only too plain to others not so nearly interested in her child's
well-being.  She could not bear to think that, after all, Clara's pursuit of intellectual distinction
was physically, morally, and spiritually a huge mistake, and that she was purchasing success
at the cost of health and peace.  "There was nothing seriously amiss with her," she would tell
her husband, when he expressed his misgivings and fears; "she only wanted a little change;
that would set her up: there was no real cause for anxiety.  It would never do for Clara to
be behind the rest of the girls of her age in intellectual attainments: it would be doing her
injustice, for she was so manifestly calculated to shine; and if God had given her the abilities
and the tastes, surely they ought to be cultivated.  She could return by-and-by to her work
in the Sunday- school and the parish.  And then, how much better it was that she should be
acquiring really solid and useful knowledge, which would be always valuable to her, than be
spending her energies on any of the worldly or frivolous pursuits which were entangling and
spoiling so many well- disposed girls in our day."

Alas!  The poor mother, whose own heart and conscience were not really satisfied with these
reasonings, had forgotten, or failed to see, that the same devotion to study which kept her
daughter out of the ensnaring ways of worldliness and frivolity, equally kept her from treading
that path of shining usefulness along which all must walk who would fulfil the great purpose
for which God has put us into this land of probation and preparation for our eternal home.

Thomas Bradly saw plainly how matters were, and when the vicar hinted at his difficulties connected
with his daughter's pursuits, as they were talking together over Sunday-school and parochial
work, spoke out his mind plainly and faithfully.

"Well, Thomas," said Mr Maltby, "you see a little how I am situated. My dear child is, I trust
and believe, a true Christian; but I am free to confess that I am sadly disappointed at the
turn which things have taken about her studies."

"I can well believe it, sir," was Bradly's reply, "and I feel for you with all my heart.  And
I'm disappointed myself about Miss Clara, and so's scores more in the parish.  The Sunday-school
ain't the same as it was--no, nor the parish neither, now that she don't come among us as she
used to do.  But there's a twist somewheres in people's views about the education of young
ladies in our day.  'Tain't so much in my way, sir, it's true, as it is in yours, to notice
these things; but sometimes them as is standing a little way off gets a better view of how
things really are than them as is quite close by."

"Quite so, Thomas," said the other.  "Tell me, then, candidly what you think about this matter."

"I'll do so, sir, as I know you'll not misunderstand me; and you know that I love you and yours
with all my heart.  Well, sir, it seems to me as they're beginning at the wrong place altogether,
in filling young ladies' heads, as they do, with all sorts and sizes of knowledge."

"How do you mean, Thomas?"

"Just this way, sir.  I were in Sheffield for a day or two last June, and as I were a-staring
in at one of the cutlers' shops, I caught sight of a strange-looking article stuck upon a stand
right in the middle of the window.  It were all blades and points, like the porcupine as I
used to read about at the national school when I were a boy.  It was evidently meant for a
knife; but who would ever think of buying such a thing as that, except merely as a curiosity?
There must have been some fifty or sixty blades, and these were all sorts of shapes and sizes,
just, I suppose, to show the skill of the workman as contrived to fasten such a lot of them
together; but they would have been no earthly use to a man as wanted a real working article.
Now, as far as I can see and hear, the young ladies in these days is being got up something
like one of 'em fancy knives.  It seems to be the great wish of these young ladies' parents
or friends to put into their heads a lot of learning of all sorts--so many languages, so many
sciences, so many accomplishments, as they calls 'em, as thick as they can stand together.
And what's the end of it all?  Why, folks wonder at 'em, no doubt, and say a great many fine
things to 'em and about 'em; but they're not turned out a real serviceable article, either
for their homes or for the great Master's work as he'd have them to do it."

"It is too true, dear friend," said the vicar with a sigh.

"Ay!  And if I'm not too bold in speaking my mind," proceeded the other, "that ain't the worst
of it.  You'll excuse my homely way of talking, sir, but I can't help thinking of Timothy Pinches'
donkey-cart when I reads or hears of these young ladies with their science classes, and their
Oxford and Cambridge local examinations, and their colleges, and what not.  Timothy Pinches
were an old neighbour of mine when I didn't live in these parts--that were several years ago
as I'm talking of.  Now Timothy had a donkey, a quiet and serviceable animal enough, and he'd
got a cart too, which would carry a tidy lot of things, yet at the same time it weren't none
of the strongest.  He used to cart my coals for me, and do an odd job for me here and there.
Well, one day I met Timothy with a strange load in his cart; there was a lot of iron nails
and bars for the blacksmith, two or three bags of potatoes, a sack of flour, a bottle or two
of vinegar, a great jar of treacle, a bale of calico for one of the shops, a cask of porter,
and a sight of odds and ends besides.  And they was packed and jammed so tight together, I
could see as they were like to burst the sides of the cart through.  `Timothy,' says I, `you'll
never get on with that load; it's too much for the donkey, and it's too much for the cart.'
`All right,' says he, `we'll manage.'  `Nay,' says I, `it's too much for the poor beast; make
two journeys of it, and you'll do it comfortably.'  `Can't afford the time,' says he.  But
he could afford the time to keep the poor donkey often standing before the door of the public
for an hour and more together. But just then he'd had an extra glass, and he wasn't in a mood
to be spoken with.  So he gives the poor beast a fierce kick, and a pull at his jaw, by way
of freshening him up, and the cart goes creaking on up a hill by a winding road.  I could hear
it as I went on by a footpath as took me a short cut into the road again.  Then the noise stopped
all of a sudden; and when I'd got to the end of the path, there was Timothy Pinches looking
anything but wise or pleasant, and cart and donkey had both come to grief.  The side of the
cart was burst right out; the donkey had fallen down and cut his knees badly; the potatoes
was rolling down the hill; the flour had some of it come out of the sack in a great heap, and
the vinegar and treacle was running slowly through it.  When I looked at poor Timothy's face,
and then at the break-down, I couldn't help laughing at him; but I gave him a helping hand,
and I hope he learnt a useful lesson.  You see, sir, it don't do to overtask a willing beast,
nor to load a cart with more goods than it's meant to carry, specially if it ain't over strong.
But they're making this very mistake with many of the young ladies just now--I don't mean anything
disrespectful to them in likening them to a donkey-cart, but it's true. These young ladies
themselves are overtasking their constitutions which God gave them, and they're loading their
brains with more than them brains was designed to carry.  The Lord hasn't given them, as a
rule, heads fit to bear the strain as men's heads were made to stand.  I'm sure of it; it's
the opinion, too, of Dr Richardson, who has the best right of any man, perhaps, to speak on
this subject, as he's studied it, I should think, as much or more than any man living.  Now,
sir, just look at your own dear child, Miss Clara,--why, it makes my heart sore every time
I look at her; she ain't got the right healthy look in her face; her mind has got more to bear
than ever her Maker meant it to have; and there's no reason, surely, why she shouldn't be as
cheerful as a lark and as bright as the flowers in May."

"Most true!  Most true!" said the vicar sorrowfully.  "I only wish Mrs Maltby and my daughter
could see things in this light; but when I express my fears and misgivings on this subject,
they tell me that I must not take a gloomy view of things, nor alarm myself needlessly.  But
perhaps, dear friend, you may be able to put in a word, I know your plain, homely good sense
and observation will have weight with both mother and daughter."

"I'll make bold to say a word or two to them on the subject," replied Thomas Bradly, "when
next I get an opportunity."

CHAPTER SEVEN.

A SHADOW ON THE HEARTH.

Thomas Bradly was pre-eminently a bright Christian.  A quaint old author says that "a gloomy
Christian does not do credit to Christ's housekeeping."  There was no gloom about Bradly's
religion: it shone in his heart, in his life, on his face, and in his home; it attracted the
troubled and sin-burdened; it was the concealed envy of many who scoffed at and reviled him.
And yet there was not unclouded sunshine even in his happy home: a shadow, and a dark one,
rested on his hearth.

It has been said that he had an unmarried sister who lived with him, and that she was an invalid.
Jane Bradly was a year younger than her brother Thomas, but sickness and sorrow made her look
older than she really was.  She was sweet and gentle-looking, with that peculiar air of refinement
which suffering often stamps on the features of those who are being spiritualised by fiery
trial and are ripening for glory.  And there was something, too, that was very strange about
her case.  She was not confined to her bed, and was able to leave the house in order to attend
the services at the church, which she did most regularly.  Yet she very rarely left the house
on any other occasion, and never visited a neighbour; and if any of her brother's friends came
in, she would leave her chair by the fire and retire into another room.

When the family first came to Crossbourne, a good deal of curiosity was felt and expressed
about her, and many attempts were made to draw her out; but as neither Bradly nor his wife
nor children ever gave the smallest encouragement to questioners, and as Jane herself quietly
declined every invitation to take a meal or spend an hour away from home, curiosity was obliged
to seek gratification elsewhere, and baffled inquirers to talk about her amongst themselves
with ominous whispers and shrugging shoulders.

Clearly, Jane's complaint was one which medicine could not reach, for no medical man ever called
on her at her brother's house; though well- meaning persons used at first to urge on Thomas
the advisability of consulting the parish doctor for her.  And when others recommended their
own favourite patent remedies which had never been known to fail--at least, so said the printed
wrapper--he would thank them, and say that "it wasn't physic as she wanted."  "Ah!  Then she
must have met with a disappointment where she had placed her affections; was it not so?"  To
which Thomas dryly replied that "he was not aware that it was so; but if it had been, he should
have kept it to himself."  This and similar broad hints at length closed the gossiping mouths
of Crossbourne--at any rate, in the presence of any members of the Bradly family--and Jane
and her troubles ceased to occupy much attention out of her own home.

Still, the deep shadow lay across the hearth and heart of her brother. Very touching it was
to see the considerate tenderness with which he always dealt with her.  Never a loud or hasty
word did she hear from him, nor indeed from any member of the family.  When he came in from
his work his first words were for her: some cheery little speech, yet uttered in rather an
undertone, lest his natural abruptness unchecked should startle her.  The best massive arm-chair,
and the snuggest nook by the kitchen fire, were hers; and by the Bible, which was her constant
companion, and lay on a little table which stood beside her, a few bright flowers, as their
season came round, were placed as tokens of a thoughtful and abiding love.

Yet she pined, and grew gradually weaker; but no murmur was heard to escape her lips.  The
sorrow which lay on her heart like a mountain of snow could not deprive her of God's peace,
while it was chilling and crushing out her life.  As far as they would allow her, and her strength
would permit, she took her part in the household work; but she was principally occupied with
her needle, and as she was an excellent workwoman, she was never without such orders as she
was able to undertake.

The vicar was deeply interested in her, and was a frequent visitor; but while she manifestly
derived comfort from his instructions and prayers, any attempt on his part to draw her into
confiding to him, (as a friend and spiritual adviser) her special sorrow at once reduced her
to silence.  And yet it seemed to him that there were times when she was on the very verge
of breaking through her reserve.  Not that he desired this, except for her own sake.  How gladly
would he have shared her burden with her, "and so fulfilled the law of Christ," would she but
have in trusted him with it!  It was so sad to see the deep shadow of an abiding care on that
gentle face, the unnatural flush on the cheeks, and the eyes at one time filled with tears,
and at another with a look of earnest beseeching, as though she longed to unburden her troubled
heart, and yet dared not--as though she yearned for his advice and sympathy, and yet could
not bring herself to open to him her grief.  And thus it was that the poor afflicted one was
drooping lower and lower; and the cloud which rested on her quiet, patient features was to
be seen at times on her brother's also.

It was a few days after the accident on the line by which the miserable Joe Wright was hurried
into eternity, that the vicar, who was coming out of the cottage of poor Joe's widow, met Thomas
Bradly as he was on his way home from his work.  Both looked very grave; and Mr Maltby said,--

"I see, Thomas, that you feel, as I do, what a shocking accident this has been.  The drink,
I don't doubt, must have been at the bottom of it, for we know too well what the poor man's
habits were.  What can I say to comfort his unhappy widow?  Of course, it is not for us to
judge her husband; we do not know what passed in Joe's heart during his last moments.  But
that is very poor consolation, after all, when we know that, `as a man sows, so shall he reap.'
All I can do is to try and lead the poor woman herself to her Saviour.  We know that the door
to pardon and peace is not yet closed to her."

"That's too true, sir," replied Bradly.  "I fear we can't have any comfortable thoughts about
Joe; the least said about him the better. But, to tell you the truth, sir, I were just then
turning my own trouble over in my mind, and that's what made me look so grave."

"What--about your sister Jane?"

"Yes, sir.  I know as it's all right; and yet somehow I can't help feeling a bit anxious about
her.  She must either mend afore long, or break down altogether.  I should very much like her
to open her heart and her trouble to yourself, sir; for I'm sure it would do her good.  I know
it all myself, of course; but then I've promised her to be as close as wax, and never to talk
about it to a soul without she gives me leave. And her Saviour knows it all, too.  She goes
with it regular to him; but still she brings back some of it with her each time.  She don't
mean it; but it's more nor flesh and blood is equal to, to leave it entirely to him.  Now,
I do believe, if she would just tell you all, or let me tell it you before her, it would help
to lighten her heart and ease her mind.  She knows, indeed--as of course every true Christian
knows from his Bible--that no mortal man, be he who he may, can do for her what the blessed
Saviour only can do; but I am sure that it will make your words, your counsels, and your prayers
more precious and profitable to her when she feels that her pastor knows her great sorrow,
and can join with her in taking it to the throne of grace, and pleading for light and guidance,
and a way out of it too, if the Lord will."

"I quite agree with you, Thomas," said Mr Maltby.  "At present I can give her only general
words of advice and comfort, and can only pray for her about her sorrow in a general way; but
if she sees it to be right, and can bear to confide the story of her trial to me, I shall then
be able to assist her in grasping with an increasing faith those `exceeding great and precious
promises' which will be specially applicable to her case, and may meet any peculiar circumstances
connected with her affliction."

"Thank you, sir, most kindly," said the other.  "I think I have nearly persuaded her to let
me tell you all; and I believe it will be best done before herself, for then one telling will
do for all, and she will be able to put in a word here and there to make all clear."

"Just so, Thomas," said the vicar.  "I can easily understand that when once she has broken
through her reserve with me, or suffered you to break through it for her, she will be able
better to bear the full disclosure, from having part of the weight already removed from her heart."

"That's just my view," said Bradly, "and I've told her so more than once.  I'm sure she'll
feel lighter in her heart when once she has fully made up her mind that you shall know all,
even before you've heard a word of her story; and I'm sure she sees it so now herself.  So,
if it won't be troubling you too much to ask you to step over to our house to- morrow night
about seven o'clock, unless I send you back word, we'll have the best parlour all to ourselves,
and I believe the Lord will make it a blessed night for poor Jane and for us all."

"It shall be so then, Thomas," replied the vicar.  "I will, if spared, be at your house at
seven o'clock, unless I hear anything meanwhile to the contrary from yourself."

It was with a feeling of deep interest, and a fervent prayer for a blessing, that Ernest Maltby
knocked the next evening at the door of Thomas Bradly's quiet dwelling.  Thomas welcomed him
with a smile. "It'll be all right, I know," he said; "I've told her you're coming, and she
has made no objection; and now that the time's come, the Lord has taken away the worst of the
fear."

The vicar entered, and found the invalid seated by a bright fire, with her little table and
the Bible on it by her side.  Her poor wan cheeks were flushed with a deeper colour than usual
as she rose to greet the clergyman; but there was not so much a look of suffering now in her
eyes, as of hopeful, humble, patient trust.  Her needlework lay near her Bible, for her skilful
fingers were never idle.

Her brother set a chair for their visitor near the fire, and seated himself by him.  For a
moment no one spoke; then Jane handed the Bible to Mr Maltby, who opened it and read the Hundred
and Forty-Second Psalm, giving special emphasis to the words of the third verse, "When my spirit
was overwhelmed within me, then thou knewest my path."  He offered a short prayer after the
reading, and then waited for either brother or sister to spread out the trouble before him.

"You must know, sir," began Thomas, with an emotion which checked his usual outspoken utterance
for a while, "as me and mine don't belong to these parts; and I daresay you've heard some of
the queer tales which them as pays more attention to their neighbour's business than their
own has got up about us.  However, that matters very little.  Our native place is about fifty
miles from Crossbourne.  Maybe you've heard of Squire Morville (Sir Lionel Morville's his proper
title).  He lives in a great mansion called Monksworthy Hall, just on the top of the hill after
you've gone through the village.  There's a splendid park round it. Most of the land about
belongs to Sir Lionel; and he's lord of the manor.  Well, I were born, and my father and grandfather
before me, in Monksworthy, and so were Jane; and all things went on pretty smooth with us till
a few years back.  We'd our troubles, of course; but then we didn't expect to be without 'em--Wasn't
to be looked for that our road through life should be as level all the way as a bowling-green.
Sir Lionel were very good to his tenants; but he were rather too fond of having lots of company
at the Hall--more, I'm sure, than his lady liked; for she was a truly godly woman, and I don't
doubt is so to this day.

"My father and mother had a very large family, so that there wasn't full work for us all as
we growed up; and, as I was one of the younger ones, they was glad to get me bound apprentice,
through the squire's help, to my present trade in the north.  But I liked my own native village
better than any other spot as I'd ever seen, so I came back after I'd served my time, and picked
up work and a wife, as a good many of the young people had been emigrating to Canada and Australia,
and Sir Lionel wanted hands just then.  Well, then, God sent us our children, and they soon
grew up, and it weren't such easy work to feed them and clothe them as it is in a place like
this.  However, the Lord took care of us, and we always had enough.

"Jane went to the Hall to be housemaid soon after I married; and Lady Morville were so fond
of her that, she would never hear of her leaving for any other place.--Nay, Jane dear, you
mustn't fret; it'll all turn out well in the end.  There's One as loves us both, better than
Sir Lionel and his lady, and he'll make all straight sooner or later.

"Now, you must know, sir, as I'd come back from the north a teetotaler. I'd seen so much of
the drunkenness and the drink-traps there that I'd made up my mind as total abstinence were
the wisest, safest, and best course for both worlds; and Jane, who had never cared for either
beer or wine, took the pledge with me when I came home, for the sake of doing good to others.

"Lady Morville didn't concern herself about this; but there was one at the Hall who did, and
that one were John Hollands, the butler.  It was more nor he could put up with, that any one
of the servants should presume to go a different road from him, and refuse the ale when it
went round at meals in the kitchen.  So, as all his chaffing, and the chaffing of the other
servants, couldn't shake Jane, he was determined he'd make her smart for it.  And there was
something more than this too. I've said that Sir Lionel were a free sort of gentleman, fond
of having lots of company; and of course the company wasn't short of ale, and wine, and spirits;
and so long as there was a plentiful stock in the cellar, the squire didn't trouble himself
to count bottles or barrels. He was not a man himself as drank to excess; he thought drunkenness
a low, vulgar habit, and never encouraged it; but he spent his money freely, and those as lived
in his family were never watched nor stinted. You may suppose, then, sir, as John Hollands
had a fine time of it.  He were cock of the walk in the servants' hall, and no mistake.  Eh,
to see him at church on Sunday!

"You may be sure such a man had a deal in his power; and so he had.  And it wasn't only the
wine, beer, and spirits as he used pretty much as he liked.  Eh!  The waste that went on downstairs
was perfectly frightful; and a pretty penny he and the cook made between 'em out of their master's
property, which they sold on the sly.

"Jane saw something of this, and longed to put a stop to it; but, poor thing, what could she
really do?  She did once take an opportunity of speaking her mind gently to the butler, when
they happened to be alone, and tried to show him how wrong and wickedly he was acting.  But
all she got was, that he gave her back such a volley of oaths and curses as made her feel that
it would be no use talking to him any more on the subject just then.  And he weren't content
with merely abusing her; he threatened her besides as he'd make her see afore long what sort
of paying off `sneaking spies' usually got for their pains.  And he kept his word.

"Lady Morville had got a favourite lady's-maid, who came to her when Jane had been some years
at the Hall.  This maid were a stylish, dashing young woman, and had a tongue as would turn
any way it was wanted.  So she soon made herself so useful to her mistress that she was more
like an equal than a servant.  But she were a thoroughly unprincipled woman, and hated Jane
almost as soon as she had set eyes on her.  Now she were far too deep to do anything as would
get herself into trouble.  She might have robbed her ladyship in many ways; and so she did,
but not by taking her jewels or anything of that sort.  She would wheedle things out of her
mistress in the slyest way.  And then, too, Lady Morville would trust her to pay some of her
bills for her; and then she'd manage to pop things into the account which my lady had never
ordered, or she would alter the figures in such a way as to cheat her ladyship.  And she hadn't
been long at the Hall, as you may suppose, before she and the butler became fast friends; and
a pretty lot of robbery and mischief was carried on by them two.  Jane couldn't keep her eyes
shut, so she saw many things she longed to expose to her mistress; but it would have been very
difficult to bring the wrong-doings to light, even if Lady Morville had given her the opportunity
of doing so--which she never did.

"Georgina--that were the name of the lady's-maid--was fully aware, however, that Jane had her
eyes upon her, and she was resolved to get her out of the way.  But how was that to be done?
For Jane bore a high character in the house, and her ladyship would not listen to any gossiping
tales against her.  Her mind was soon made up: a little talk with John Hollands, and the train
was laid.

"Now, she could have taken a bit of jewellery from her mistress, and hidden it in Jane's box,
or among her things; and this was John Hollands' idea, as Jane afterwards found out from another
fellow- servant, who was sorry for her, and had overheard the two making up their plans together.
But Georgina said: `No; that were a stale trick, and her ladyship might believe Jane's positive
assertion of innocence. She would manage it better than that.'  And so she did.

"To Jane's surprise, both the butler and the lady's-maid changed their manner towards her after
a while, and became quite friendly: indeed, Hollands even took an opportunity to thank Jane
for her good advice, and to say that he was beginning to see things in a different light; and
Georgina made her a present of a neat silver pencil-case.  Jane couldn't quite understand it;
but having no guile in herself, she weren't up to suspecting guile in other folks, and she
were only too thankful to see anything that looked like a change for the better.

"Things were in this fashion, when one morning, just before Sir Lionel's breakfast-time, as
Jane was sweeping and dusting the back drawing-room, John Hollands looked in.  There'd been
a large dinner-party the night before, and the family was rather late.  Steps were heard overhead
in her ladyship's bedroom, and then Georgina comes in.  `Come in here, Mr Hollands,' she says,
`and look here, both of you; see what I've found on the stairs!'  The butler came in, and the
lady's-maid holds out to him a beautiful bracelet all sparkling with jewels.  He took it in
his hand and turned it over, and says, `It must have been dropped by one of the ladies as dined
here yesterday; you'd better give it to her ladyship.'--`Of course I shall,' says the other;
`only there's no harm looking at it.--Ain't it a love of a bracelet, Jane?  Just take it in
your hand and look at it afore I take it up to mistress.'  Jane took the bracelet, and said
that it was a beauty indeed, and was going to return it to Georgina, but that wicked woman
had turned her head away, pretending not to notice Jane's hand stretched out to her.  Then
steps were heard close to the door, and Georgina cried out half aloud, `There's her ladyship
coming; won't you catch it, Jane!  Come along, Mr Hollands;' and they were gone out at another
door in a moment, just as Lady Morville came in at the other end of the room.  And there stood
poor Jane, her face all in a blaze, with her broom in one hand and the bracelet in the other.

"Scarcely knowing what she did, but not wishing; of course, to be found with the bracelet in
her fingers, Jane tried to slip it into her pocket; but it wouldn't do, her mistress had already
seen it.  So she says, quiet and calm-like, `Jane, don't attempt to hide it from me; I believe
that's one of the bracelets Sir Lionel gave me on my last birthday.  I couldn't find either
of them when I was dressing for dinner last night, nor Georgina either.  Come, tell me, Jane,
how did it come into your possession?'

"What could poor Jane say or do?  She bursts out a-crying, poor thing, and then turns her round,
when she'd thrown up a little prayer to the Lord from her heart, and she says, `Please, my
lady, I never saw the bracelet till a few minutes ago.  Georgina brought it in while I was
sweeping, and showed it to Mr Hollands and me; and I was just going to give it back to Georgina,
for they said that some lady must have dropped it last night--and I never knew it was your
ladyship's--and they ran out of the room and left it in my hand--and then your ladyship came
in and found me with it.'

"Now you may be sure, sir, as Jane had no easy work to get them words out, and, I suppose,
Lady Morville thought as she was making up a lie; so she says very gravely, `I don't at all
understand you, Jane: how can Georgina have brought the bracelet to you?  She was searching
for the pair last night herself, and knows that they were missing from my jewel- case.  And
how can she have said that some lady must have dropped this bracelet, when she must know it
perfectly well to be my own?  Besides, it is only a few minutes ago that she told me she believed
I should find it in this room somewhere, only she didn't like to say why.'

"Jane saw it all now--they had laid a cruel trap for her, and she was caught in it.  At first
she had no answer but tears, and then she declared that she had told the simple truth, and
nothing but the truth. `It may be so, Jane,' said her mistress; `of course what you say is
possible, but, I fear, not very probable.'

"She rung the bell, and Georgina answered it with a smirk on her face. `Just call Hollands,
and come in here with him,' said her ladyship.  The butler soon came in; and Jane says, if
ever the devil looked through any man's eyes, she believes he did through his, as he glared
at her with a look of triumph, his mistress's back being turned towards him.  Lady Morville
then asked them if Jane's story was true, and if Georgina had shown her the bracelet.  John
Hollands lifts up his hands and eyes, and cries out, `Was there ever such hypocrisy and deceit!'
As for Georgina, she pretends to get into a passion, and declares as it was all a make-up thing
to rob her and the butler of their characters.  And then she says, `Why, my lady, I've missed
things myself, and I've had my suspicions; but I've not liked to say anything.  There's a silver
pencil-case, which my dear mother gave me, and it's got my initials on it: it's gone from my
room, and I can't hear anything about it.'  Jane at once pulls the pencil-case out of her pocket,
and lays it on the table.  `I see how it is,' she says; `you two are determined to ruin me;
but the Lord above, he knows I'm innocent.--Your ladyship, Georgina made me a present of that
pencil-case a short time ago.  I didn't want to take it; but she wouldn't be refused, and said
I must keep it as a token of good-will from her.'--`Well, did I ever hear such assurance!'
cried Georgina.  `I wonder what she'll say next?  But one thing's clear, my lady: I can't stay
here, to be suspected of robbing your ladyship.  I've not lost my character yet, if Jane's
lost hers.  But, at any rate, she has got your ladyship's bracelet; you found her with it yourself.
Now, as she has got the one, she'll know, of course, where the other is.  You may be sure,
my lady, that the same person as took the one took the pair.  It ain't likely there were two
thieves in the case.  If I might be so bold, I would, if I were in your ladyship's place, ask
her to produce both the bracelets, and restore them to you; and when she's done that, it will
be for your ladyship to say whether you do or do not believe her to be innocent, and that she's
told the truth about my pencil-case.'

"Nobody said anything for a minute, for it were plain as Lady Morville were very much grieved
and perplexed.  At last she turns to Jane, and says, `You hear what Georgina says, Jane; it
is not unreasonable.  Two bracelets have been taken, and one of the pair is found on you. 
I cannot say how you came by it, but it seems most likely that you must know where the other
is.  Produce it, and the matter shall go no further.  I've always had the highest opinion of
you up to this moment; and if sudden temptation in this case has led you into a sin, the best
and wisest thing for you to do is just to own it, and to give up the other bracelet, and then
the matter shall drop there, and we will all agree that by-gones shall be by-gones, for the
best among us may be overtaken in a fault.'  But by this time poor Jane had recovered herself
a bit.  She dried her tears, and, looking her mistress steadily in the face, said, `I have
told your ladyship the simple truth, and nothing but the truth; and I appeal to your ladyship,
have you ever found me out in any untruthfulness or deceit all these years as you've knowed
me?  I see plainly enough why Mr Hollands and Georgina have been plotting this cruelty against
me; but it would, I know, be of no use if I was to tell your ladyship what their carryings
on has been--I should not be believed.  But there's One whose eyes are in every place, beholding
the evil and the good, and he will set it all right when he sees it to be best, and he'll clear
my character.'

"No more were said at that time; but in the afternoon Lady Morville sends for Jane, and has
her in her own room by herself, and she tells her as appearances are very much against her;
but as she'd never knowed anything to her discredit before, and she had borne a very high character
all the time as she'd been at the Hall, this matter should be hushed up, but she felt it wouldn't
be right for her to remain.  And so my poor sister, as she couldn't say no otherwise than she
did before, and as she couldn't bear to face the other servants any more, left the Hall that
very night by her own wish, and told me her story as I've told it you; for we've talked it
over together scores of times, and I've got it quite by heart.  And from that day to this she's
never looked up; for, as it says in the psalm, `the iron has entered into her soul.'

"I couldn't stop long after that in Monksworthy, and so we all came over here; and the Lord
has prospered us--all but poor Jane; and yet I know she'll tell you he has never left her nor
forsaken her, and he's made his promises `yea and Amen' to her, spite of her sorrow.  But it's
a very sore trial, and the burden of it lies heavy on her heart still.

"There, sir, you've had the whole of it now, as well as I could give it you; and I'm sure you'll
deal gently with the poor creature, like the good Master who wouldn't break the bruised reed."

For a little while no one spoke.  Mr Maltby was deeply touched, and Jane, whose face had been
for some time past buried in her hands, could not for a while restrain her sobbing.  At last
she looked up and said: "Yes, dear Mr Maltby, Thomas has told you exactly how it all was, as
he has often heard it from me.  They tell me not to fret.  Ah!  But it's good advice easier
given than followed.  I don't want to murmur; I know it's the Lord's will; but the trouble's
gnawing and gnawing my life away.  Disgraced, dismissed as a thief and a liar, without a character,
a burden instead of a help to those who love me--oh, it is hard, very hard to bear!  But those
blessed words of the psalm you read, oh, how they have comforted me!  And in that Word of God
I know I shall find peace and strength.  Ah, that reminds me Thomas has not mentioned to you
another thing that added weight to my burden.  I had, when I was living at the Hall, a little
Bible of my dear mother's, which I used to read every day.  Only a very short time before the
day when the bracelet was shown me, that Bible was taken out of my box; and I've never seen
it since.  I asked all the other servants about it, but every one declared they had neither
touched nor seen it.  It could not have been taken for its value, for it was very old, and
worn-looking, and shabby, and the paper and print were very poor; but I loved it because it
was my dear mother's, and had been given to her as a reward when she was a very little girl.
It had her maiden name and the year of our Lord in it--`Mary Williams.  June 10, 1793.'  Oh!
It was such a precious book to me, for I had drawn a line in red-ink under all my favourite
texts, and I could find anything I wanted in it in a moment!  I can't help fearing that John
Hollands or Georgina took it away just to spite me."

"Poor Jane!" said the vicar gently and lovingly "your story is a sad one indeed.  Truly the
chastening must for the present be not joyous, but grievous; and yet it comes from the hand
of a Father who loves you, who will, I doubt not, cause it in due time to bring forth the peaceable
fruit of righteousness."

"And you do, then, dear sir," cried Jane, with tearful earnestness, "believe, after what you
have heard, that I am really innocent of the charge which has been made against me?"

"Believe it, Jane!" exclaimed Mr Maltby; "yes, indeed!  I could not doubt your innocence for
a moment; and remember, the Lord himself knows it, and will make it before long as clear as
the noonday."

"Oh, thank you, dear sir, a thousand times for those cheering words!  I am so glad now that
all has been told you; I feel my heart lighter already.  Yes, I will trust that light will
come in his time."

"It will," replied the vicar, "and before long too.  I feel firmly persuaded, I can hardly
tell you why, that it will not be so very long before this dark cloud shall pass away."

"May the Lord grant it!" said Thomas Bradly; and added, "You understand now, sir, exactly how
matters lie; and we shall both feel the happier that you know all, for we are sure that we
shall always have your sympathy and prayers, and if anything should turn up we shall know where
to go for advice; and in the meantime, we must wait and be patient.  I can't help feeling with
you that, somehow or other, poor Jane's getting near the end of the wood, and will come out
into the sunshine afore so very long."

CHAPTER EIGHT.

TANTALISING.

A few days after the disclosure of Jane Bradly's trouble to the vicar, he met her brother Thomas
in the evening hurrying away from his house.

"Nothing amiss at home, I hope, Thomas?" he inquired.

"Nothing amiss, thank you, sir, in my home, but a great deal amiss in somebody else's.  There's
nearly been an accident this afternoon to a goods train, and it's been owing to Jim Barnes
having had too much drink; so they've just paid him off, and sent him about his business."

"I'm afraid," said the vicar, "there has been too much cause for such a strong measure.  Poor
James has been a sad drunken fellow, and it is a wonder they have kept him on so long."

"So it is, indeed, sir; for it's risking other people's lives to have such as him about a station.
I suppose they have not liked to turn him off before partly because he's got such a lot of
little 'uns to feed, and partly because it ain't often as he's plainly the worse for liquor
when he's at his work.  But when a man's as fond of the drink as Jim Barnes is, it ain't possible
for him to keep off it always just when it suits his interests.  And then there's another thing
which makes chaps like him unfit to be trusted with having to do with the trains--who's to
be sure that he ain't so far the worse for drink as to be confused in his head, even when he
shows no signs of being regularly tipsy?"

"Who, indeed, Thomas?  I am very sorry for poor James and his family; but I am sure he is not
the man, while he keeps his present habits, to be trusted with work on the line, which requires
a steady hand and a cool head."

"Well, sir, I hope he'll begin to see that himself.  Now's the time to get at him, and so I'm
just going down to try what I can do with him. Jim's never been one of my sort, but he's not
been one of the worst of the other sort neither.  He's a good-natured fellow, and has got a
soft heart, and I've never had a spiteful word from him since I've knowed him."

"Yes, Thomas, I believe that's true of him," said Mr Maltby; "he has been always very civil
and obliging to me.  But, as you know, I have tried more than once to draw him out of the slough
of intemperance on to firm ground, but in vain.  I trust, however, that God may bless your
loving endeavours to bring him now over to the right side."

"I trust so too, sir."

The house where Barnes lived was in one of the worst and dirtiest parts of Crossbourne; and
as some of the inhabitants, whose temperament inclined to the gloomy, declared Crossbourne
to be the dirtiest town in England, the situation of Jim's dwelling was certainly not likely
to be favourable to either health or comfort.  There are streets in most towns of any considerable
size which persons who are fortunate enough to live in more agreeable localities are quite
content with just looking down, and then passing on, marvelling, it may be, to themselves how
such processes as washing and cooking can ever be carried on with the slightest prospect of
success in the midst of such grimy and unsavoury surroundings.  It was in such a street that
James Barnes and his family existed, rather than lived; for life is too vigorous a term to
be applied to the time dragged on by those who were unfortunate enough to breathe so polluted
an atmosphere.  There are some places which, in their very decay, remind you of better times
now past and gone.  It was not so with the houses in these streets; they looked rather as if
originally built of poverty-stricken and dilapidated materials.  And yet none of them were
really old, but the blight of neglect was heavy upon them.  Nearly at the bottom of one of
these streets was the house inhabited by the dismissed railway porter, and to this Thomas Bradly
now made his way.

Outside the front door stood a knot of women with long pipes in their mouths, bemoaning Jim's
dismissal with his wife, and suggesting some of those original grounds of consolation which,
to persons in a higher walk of life, would rather aggravate than lessen the trial.  Two of
the youngest children of the family, divested of all superfluous clothing, were giving full
play to their ill-fed limbs in the muddy gutter, dividing their time between personal assaults
on each other, and splashings on the by-standers from the liquid soil in which they were revelling,
being occasionally startled into a momentary silence by a violent cuff from their mother when
they became more than ordinarily uproarious.

The outer door stood half-open, and disclosed a miserable scene of domestic desolation.  The
absence of everything that could make home really home was the conspicuous feature.  There
was a table, it is true; but then it was comparatively useless in its disabled state--one of
the leaves hanging down, and just held on by one unbroken hinge, reminding you of a man with
his arm in a sling.  There were chairs also, but none of them perfect; rather suggesting by
their appearance the need of caution in the use of them than the prospect of rest to those
who might confide their weight to them.  A shelf of crockery ware was the least unattractive
object; but then every article had suffered more or less in the wars.  Nothing was clean or
bright, few things were whole, and fewer still in their proper places.  The two or three dingy
prints on the walls, originally misrepresentations in flaring colours of scriptural or other
scenes, hung in various degrees of crookedness; while articles of clothing, old and new, dirtier
and less dirty, were scattered about in all directions, or suspended, just where necessity
or whim had tossed them.  There was on the available portion of the table part of a loaf of
bread, a lump of butter still half-wrapped in the dirty piece of newspaper which had left some
of its letters impressed on its exposed side, a couple of herrings, a mug half-full of beer,
and two or three onions.  And in the midst of all this chaos, on one side of the grate, which
was one-third full of expiring ashes, and two-thirds full of dust, sat James Barnes in his
railway porter's dress and cap, looking exceedingly crestfallen and unhappy.

"Good evening, Jim," said Thomas Bradly, making his way to the fire- place, and taking a seat
opposite to Barnes; "I was sorry to hear bad news."

"Yes, bad indeed, Thomas--you've heard it, I see.  Yes, they've given me the sack; and what's
to be done now, I'm sure I don't know.  Some people's born to luck; 'tain't my case."

"Nay, Jim," cried the other, "you're out there: there's no such thing as luck, and no one's
born to good luck.  But there's an old proverb which comes pretty near the truth, and it's
this, `Diligence is the mother of good luck.'  I don't believe in luck or chance myself, but
I believe in diligence, with God's blessing.  It says in the Bible, `The hand of the diligent
maketh rich.'"

"Well, and I have been diligent," exclaimed Jim: "I've never been away from my work a day scarcely.
But see what a lot of children I've got, and most of them little 'uns; and now they've gone
and turned me off at a moment's notice.  What do you say to that?  Isn't that hard lines?"

"It ain't pleasant, certainly, Jim; but come, now, what's the use of fencing about in this
way?  Jim Barnes, just you listen to me.  There's not a pleasanter chap in the town than yourself
when you're sober-- everybody says so, from the vicar down to Tommy Tracks.  Now it's of no
use to lay the blame on the wrong shoulders.  You know perfectly well that if you'd have let
the drink alone things would never have come to this, and you wouldn't have been living now
in such a dirty hole.  But I'm not come down here, Jim, to twit you with what's done, and can't
be undone now.  If you've done wrong, well, there's time to turn over a new leaf and do better;
and now's your time.  You see what the drink's brought you to; and if you was to get another
place to-morrow, you wouldn't keep it long.  There's no business as ever I heard of where the
masters advertise in the papers, `So many drunkards wanted for such a work.'  No, no, Jim;
just you think the matter over, and pray to the Lord to show you the right way.  You know my
`Surgery' at the back of my house: you come up there to-night and have a talk with me; it's
no use trying to have it here.  I think I'll show you a door as'll lead to better ways, and
better times; and you shan't want a good friend or two, Jim, to give you a helping hand, if
you'll only try, by God's help, to deserve them."

Poor Jim's head had become bowed down on to his hands during this plain speech, and the tears
began to make their way through his fingers.  Then he stretched out one hand towards his visitor
without lifting up his head, and said, in a half-choked voice, "Thank you, Thomas; I'll come,
that I will,--I'll come; and thank you kindly for coming to look after me."

And he kept his word.  Just as it was getting dark a tap was heard at Bradly's "Surgery" door,
and James Barnes was admitted into a bright and cheery room--such a marvellous contrast, in
its neatness, order, and cleanliness, to his own miserable dwelling.  When the two men were
seated, one on either side of the fire-place--which was as brilliant as Brunswick black and
polishing could make it--Bradly began:--

"James Barnes, this night may be the turning-point for good and for happiness, for you and
yours, both for this world and the next.  I want you to sign the pledge and keep it.  You've
tried for a good long time how you can do with the drink--and a poor do it has been; now try
how you can do without it.  Never mind what old mates may say; never mind what such as Will
Foster and his set may say; never mind what your wife may say,--she'll come round and join
you if you're only firm,--just you sign, and then we'll ask God to bless you, and to enable
you to keep your pledge."

"Thomas, I will," said James Barnes, much moved; "all as you've said's perfectly true--I know
it.  The drink's been my curse and my ruin; it's done me and mine nothing but harm; and I can
see what doing without it has been to you and yours.  Give me the pen; I'll sign."

The signature was made, and then, while both men knelt, Thomas Bradly poured out his heart
in prayer to God for a blessing on his poor friend, and that he might truly give his heart
and life to the Lord.  "And now, James," said Bradly, "I'll find you a job to go on with, and
I'll speak to the vicar, and you and yours shan't starve till we can set you on your feet again."

James Barnes thanked his new friend most warmly, and was turning to the door, but still lingered.
Then he came back to the fire and sat down again, and said, "Thomas, I've summat to tell you
which I've been wanting to mention to you for more nor a week, and yet I ain't had the courage
to come and say it like a man."

"Well, Jim, now's the time."

"Thomas," said the other sorrowfully, "I've done you a wrong, but I didn't mean to do it; it's
that drink as was at the bottom of it."

"Well, Jim," replied Bradly, smiling, "it can't have been much of a wrong, I doubt, as I've
never found it out."

"I don't know how that may be, Thomas, but you shall hear.  You remember the morning when poor
Joe was found cut to pieces on the line just below the foot-bridge?"

"Yes, Jim, I remember it well; it was the day before Christmas-day."

"Well, Thomas, it were the day before that.  I was on the platform in the evening, waiting
for the half-past five o'clock train to come in from the north.  It were ten minutes or more
late, as most of the trains was that day.  When it stopped at our station, a gent wrapped up
in a lot of things, with a fur cap on his head, a pair of blue spectacles over his eyes, and
a stout red scarf round his neck, jumps out of a third-class carriage like a shot, and lays
hold of my arm, and takes me on one side, and says, `I want you to do a job for me,' and he
puts a florin into my hand; then he says, `Do you know Thomas Bradly?'  `Ay,' says I; `I know
him well.'  `Then take this bag,' says he, `and this letter to his house as soon as you're
off duty.  Be sure you don't fail. You knows the man I mean; he's got a sister Jane as lives
with him.' `All right,' says I.  There weren't no more time, so he jumps back into the carriage,
and nods to me, and I nods back to him, and the train were gone.  It were turned six o'clock
when I left the station yard, and the hands was all turning, out from the mills, so I takes
the bag--it were a small carpet-bag, very shabby-looking--and the letter in my pocket. Now,
I ought, by rights, to have gone with it at once to your house, and I shouldn't have had any
more trouble about it.  But as I was passing the Railway Inn, I says to myself, `I'll just
step in and have a pint;' but I wouldn't take the bag in with me, as perhaps some one or other
might be axing me questions about it, and it weren't no business of theirs, so I just sets
it down on the step outside, and goes in and changes my florin and gets my pint of ale.  Well,
I got a-gossiping with the landlady, and had another pint, and when I came out the bag were
gone.  I couldn't believe my eyes at first, for I've often left things on benches and steps
outside the publics, and never knowed 'em touched afore this; for they're as honest a people
in Crossbourne as you'll find anywhere.  Howsomever, the bag were gone; there were no mistake
about that.  I went round into the yard and axed the hostler, but he hadn't seed nobody about.
I looked up and down, but never a soul could I see as had a bag in his hand, so what to do
I couldn't tell.  Then I thought, `Maybe some one's carried it back to the station by mistake.'
So I went back, but it weren't there.  I can tell you Thomas, I were never more mad with myself
in all my life; for though I haven't been one of your sort, I've always respected you, and
I'd rather have lost almost any one else's things than yours.  I only hope it ain't of much
consequence, as it were a very shabby bag, and didn't seem to have much in it, for it were
scarcely any weight at all."

"Well, James, don't fret about it," said the other; "you meant no harm. As to the value of
the bag, I know nothing more than you've told me, for I haven't been expecting anything of
the sort.  I only trust it'll be a warning to you, and that you'll stick firm to your pledge,
and keep on the outside of the beer-shops and publics for the future."

"I will, Thomas; I will.  But you know I told you as that gent who put the bag in my keeping
gave me a letter besides.  Well, I ain't lost the letter, but I've really been ashamed to bring
it you, as I couldn't bring the bag too.  And the devil said to me, `You'd better throw the
letter behind the fire, and there'll be an end of all bother;' but I couldn't do that, though
I've never had the courage yet to give it you. But here it is;" and he took from his pocket
a discoloured envelope, and handed it to Bradly.  It was directed in a crabbed hand, with the
writing sloping down to the corner--"Miss Jane Bradly, Crossbourne."

"Stop here a minute or two, Jim," said his friend, "and I shall be able perhaps to set your
mind at ease about the bag;" and he left the room.

"Jane," he said, addressing his sister, who was seated in her usual place by the kitchen fire,
"I've a letter for you, and it has come in rather an odd way;" and he then repeated to her
James Barnes's story.

Much puzzled, but with no great amount of curiosity or interest, Jane took the letter from
her brother's hand.  From whom could it have come? There was of course no postmark, as it had
been sent by messenger; and she knew nothing of the handwriting.  When she had opened it she
found only one small leaf, and but very few words on that; but these words, few though they
were, seemed to take her breath away, and to overwhelm her with overpowering emotion.  She
sat staring at the miserable scrawl as though the letters were potent with some mighty spell,
and then, throwing the paper on the table by her, gave way to a passionate outburst of weeping.

"Jane, Jane dear, what's amiss?" cried her brother in great distress. "The Lord help us!  What
has happened?"

She did not look up, but pushed the letter towards him, and he read as follows:--

  "Dear Jane,--I am sorry now for all as I've done at you.  Pray forgive
  me.  You will find a letter all about it in the bag; and I've put your
  little marked Bible, and the other br---t with it, into the bag.  So
  no more at present from yours--JH."

Slowly the facts of the case dawned on Thomas Bradly's mind.  John Hollands was trying to make
amends for the cruel wrong he had done to poor Jane, and had sent her a written statement which
would wipe off the stain he had himself cast on her character; and with this he had sent Jane's
dearly-prized Bible and the companion bracelet to the one seen by Lady Morville in Jane's hand,
and given up by her to her mistress on that unhappy morning.  And what of John Hollands himself?
No doubt he was making the best of his way, under fear of detection and punishment, to some
foreign country; and had left the bag through a feeling of remorse, that he might clear Jane's
character.  Both brother and sister saw this clearly; and that the means of relief for poor
Jane had been just within their grasp, but now, by the cruel carelessness of James Barnes,
had slipped away from them, and perhaps for ever.  Where was the bag which had in it what would
set all things straight?  Who could tell?

"I see it all," said Bradly, sadly, to his sister.  "It's very trying and very tantalising;
but the Lord knows best how to deal with his own."

"O Thomas," exclaimed his sister, "this seems almost more than I can bear!" `the Lord does
not afflict willingly, nor grieve the children of men.'  He'll never let his people be vexed
a moment longer than's good for them.  I feel certain now as the bag'll be found sooner or
later.  Whether we can find it or no, one thing's certain,--the Lord knows where it is he's
got his eye upon it; and it'll turn up just at the right time.  Now, my dearest sister, just
take this for your comfort.  The Lord's sent you this letter just to show you that deliverance
is on the road; it'll come, I'll be bound, afore so very long.  Just you help yourself along
by the light of his promises, and by my two walking-sticks, `Do the next thing'--`One step
at a time.'  The next thing for you now is to wait his time in faith and patience.  Jane dried
her tears, and held out her arms to her brother, who drew her tenderly to his heart, and again
bade her take comfort.  "And now," he said, "I must go to poor Jim."

"Well, Thomas," said Barnes, on the return of his friend, "I hope there's nothing very bad
come of my losing the bag?"

"James," replied the other, gravely, "I can't say that; I wish I could. The loss of the bag
is a serious business to us; but we must do our best to try and find it, and you must help us."

James looked very sad and crestfallen.  "Thomas," he said, "I wish I'd only knowed as that
bag were of so much consequence.  But then that's nothing to do with it; I ought to have brought
it to you at once--I know that.  I'll do my very best, however, to find it; and, come what
will, I've had a lesson as I shan't easily forget.  The inside of the public has seen the last
of me."

"Stick to that, Jim," said the other, "and put a prayer to it to the Lord to keep you; and
that'll do more to make up for the loss of the bag than anything you can possibly do for us.
Good-night, Jim.  Keep firm to your pledge, and you'll not want friends here and above."

"Good-night, Thomas; and the Lord bless you for your kindness!"

And now, what was to be done?  It was quite clear that the bag contained the means of a triumphant
establishment of Jane's innocence with Lady Morville, and consequent freedom from all stain
or slur on her character.  But was it possible to find the bag?  The circumstances connected
with the bag's loss were communicated to the vicar, who helped Bradly to institute every possible
inquiry after it in a quiet way, for they did not wish, especially on Jane's account, to make
the matter a nine days' wonder in Crossbourne by advertising.  But all was in vain; not the
faintest clue could be got by which to trace it.  Of course, it might have been possible for
Jane to ascertain through her brother whether John Hollands had really left Monksworthy Hall,
and whether or no any of his evil practices had come to light since his departure. And, supposing
such discoveries to have been made, she might have produced the letter signed "JH," and have
shown its contents to Lady Morville.  But then Jane would naturally be expected to produce
the bag alluded to in the letter, or, at any rate, the companion bracelet which was said to
be in it; and the having to tell what would look like a roundabout story concerning its loss
would not be likely to leave a thoroughly favourable impression on the mind of her late mistress.

Poor Jane!  She felt that without the bracelet she could not hope to claim a full and frank
acknowledgment from her ladyship that her innocence was completely vindicated.  She must therefore
wait, trust, and be patient.

"Light has begun to dawn on your trouble, Jane," said the vicar; "and be sure brighter light
will follow.  We must do our best, and leave it to the Lord to carry out his own purposes in
his own wise and gracious way. Sure I am of this, that you will find the fuller light come
in due time; and, more than that, that you will see that good has all the while been working
out, through this trial, to others as well as to yourself."

"I'm sure you're right, sir," said Bradly; "she'll have cause in the end even to bless the
Lord for this affliction.  And, after all, I don't see why we shouldn't try and find out Hollands'
whereabouts through some of his old companions, when he's been a little while in foreign parts;
and if we write and tell him about the loss of the bag, I don't doubt, if he's truly sorry
for what he's done to Jane,--and it seems likely as he is,--he'll write her back such a letter
as will clear up all with Lady Morville.  But the next step is just to leave all in the Lord's
hands for the present."

And so it was left.

CHAPTER NINE.

CROSSBOURNE ANNUAL TEMPERANCE MEETING.

Week after week rolled by, and James Barnes continued firm to the pledge which he had signed
in Thomas Bradly's "Surgery."  And now the usual time for holding the annual meeting of the
"Crossbourne Temperance Society" had come round, and a meeting was accordingly advertised to
be held in the Town Hall.  But mischief was apparently brewing; for all the bills announcing
the meeting which were posted on the walls were either torn down or defaced the same night
that they were put up,--a thing which had never happened before.  So it would seem that the
enemies of the temperance cause were prepared to offer more than ordinary opposition, and that
very possibly they might try to spoil or interrupt the meeting itself.

And the friends of the temperance movement in Crossbourne had not to look far to find the cause.
There had been mutterings of a coming storm for some time past.  The lovers of strong drink,
supported by those who made capital out of their unnatural and ruinous thirst, had been laying
plans and concocting schemes for thwarting the steady advance which temperance was making in
the town.  And now the sudden and shocking death of poor Joseph Wright, so far from teaching
any of his old associates the lesson which God, who can bring good even out of man's evil,
would have had them learn from that frightful disaster, had only made them plunge more deeply
into the slough of drunkenness; and so total abstainers and their principles got more abuse
and hatred from them than ever.  Conscience would be heard for a little while, roused into
utterance as it was by the death of their miserable companion; but they hated that inward voice--it
exasperated them.  Drink they would have, and cordially would they hate more and more all who
would try, however gently and lovingly, to draw them away from the intoxicating cup.  And now
the desertion of James Barnes, as they considered it, to the enemy, made the fire of their
wrath and indignation burn with a tenfold intensity.

"We're like to have hot work to-night, sir," said Bradly to the vicar, as he sat in the vicarage
study on the morning of the meeting talking over the arrangements for the evening.

"I fear so," said Mr Maltby; "so we must take proper precautions.  I hear that the friends
of poor Joseph Wright intend to muster in full force and spoil the meeting if they can.  However,
I have spoken to the police sergeant, and he will be there with one or two of his men to prevent
any serious disturbance.  You must see that they don't turn off the gas, and get us into trouble
that way."

"All right, sir," replied Bradly, "we'll take care about that; but I ain't much afraid.  There's
a deal of bluster among those chaps, but it don't take much to empty it out of 'em.  Somehow
or other I think we're going to have a good meeting after all."

Nevertheless, it was not without some considerable feeling of anxiety that the vicar entered
the committee room of the Town Hall about a quarter of an hour before the time of commencement.
He was accompanied by a brother clergyman from a distant county, who had brought a plain working-man
with him from his parish.  These were to be the chief speakers of the evening.  Thomas Bradly
was to bring James Barnes with him, and both were to take their places among the audience,
but near the platform, so as not to attract more observation than necessary, at the first.

The hall, which was a spacious and well-lighted building, began to fill as soon as the doors
were opened.  There was manifestly an unusual interest taken, not necessarily nor probably
in the cause itself, but, at any rate, in the present meeting.  The friends of Joseph Wright
and their companions had made it publicly known, and a matter of open boasting, that they intended
to be there; and this announcement was the inducement to a number of idle men and boys to attend
the meeting in the hopes of having some diversion.  But Thomas Bradly and his friends were
quite equal to the occasion; they were fully alive to the intention of their adversaries, and
acted accordingly.  As the opponents of temperance entered the hall, members of the Temperance
Society contrived to slip in with them, and so to distribute themselves over the seats that
no large number of the other side could be gathered in a compact body together.

By the time the minute-hand of the clock over the chairman's seat had reached twenty-five minutes
past seven--the meeting being advertised to begin at half-past seven--the hall was densely
packed from one end to the other, the only unoccupied places being one or two seats close under
the platform.  Punctually at the half-hour the party from the committee room walked on to the
platform, headed by the vicar; while at the same moment Thomas Bradly, followed by James Barnes,
emerged from a side door near the platform, and the two friends placed themselves on two of
the vacant foremost chairs.  The entrance of these two parties was greeted by a roar of mingled
cheers, laughter, and a few groans and hisses.

Mr Maltby advanced to the front of the platform, and there was instantly silence.  "Just one
word, dear friends, before we commence our meeting," he said.  "I have such confidence in your
manly English honesty and common fairness, that I am persuaded that, whether you agree with
us or no, you will give myself and my friends a quiet and uninterrupted hearing.  We are come
here to try and do some good.  Bear with us, then, and listen to us."

This short speech had the desired effect.  There was indeed a grand effort made to obstruct
and disturb on the part of the drinking faction; but it became apparent at once that the great
bulk of the working-men present--though most had come chiefly with a view to be amused--were
not at all disposed to allow the vicar and his friends to be hissed or shouted down.  The few
straightforward words just spoken aroused their better feelings, and the intended rioters felt
that they must wait a little before attempting any further demonstration.

Thankful for the success of his brief speech, Mr Maltby proceeded to open the meeting with
Scripture and prayer as usual.  All were very still; but as he rose from his knees his eyes
fell upon a man who sat at the extreme end of the front bench to his right.  That man was William
Foster.  Never had the vicar seen him before at any meeting where he himself was present; and
as he took his seat in the chair, he whispered to his clerical friend, "Do you see that man
at the extreme end of the front bench?  I am afraid his being here to-night bodes us no good,
for he is the leading infidel and mischief-maker in the place."--"Indeed!" replied his friend;
"well, let us hope the best.  Perhaps the Lord will give us a word even for him to-night. 
At any rate, we have a noble and intelligent audience before us; and let us do our best for
them, and leave the issue in higher hands."--"Thank you," whispered the vicar; "I feel ashamed
of my want of faith.  Doubtless all will be overruled for good."

He then proceeded to give a short address, in which, avoiding all harshness and bitterness
of expression, he strove to leave on his hearers' hearts the impression that love and nothing
else constrained him and his fellow-workers in the efforts they were using to promote the spread
of temperance in the parish and neighbourhood.  The other speakers followed in the same strain;
the working-man being able, in his rough-and-ready way, to carry with him the great majority
of the meeting, so that a feeble attempt at disturbance from the opponents proved a decided
failure.

But now a strange stir and excitement rustled through the vast assembly as James Barnes, at
the invitation of the vicar, mounted the platform, and stood unabashed before his fellow-townsmen.
But scarcely had he begun to open his lips when a torrent of yells and shouts burst from a
score or two of drunken throats; others cheered, many laughed, some shouted; then followed
a thunder of clapping and stamping, whistling and shrieking, and it seemed for a few moments
as though the triumph were to be on the side of disorder and intemperance.  But, as a second
whirlwind of uproar was beginning, the vicar again stepped forward, and, raising his right-hand
as begging silence, smiled pleasantly on the excited crowd, while he placed his left hand on
the shoulder of James Barnes, who stood his ground manfully.  Then followed shouts of "Shame,
shame!"--"Sit down!"--"Hold your noise!"--"Hearken Jim!" and the storm gradually subsided into
a calm.

"I'm one of yourselves," began Jim bluntly, as soon as order was restored, and not in the slightest
degree discomposed by this rough reception; "you shouldn't make such a din.  How's a fellow
to make himself heard?  Why, it's worse than half a dozen engines all whistling at once." 
There was a buzz of amused satisfaction at this professional illustration, and James Barnes
had got the ear of the meeting.  "I'll tell you what it is, friends," he went on; "it's true
I ain't much of a speaker, but I can tell you a thing or two about myself as may be useful.
I've got my Sunday coat on to-night, and it's my own, and it's never been to the popshop. 
I couldn't have said that a month ago, for I'd never a Sunday coat then.  Another thing, I'm
spending my own wages; that's more nor I've done for many years past, for the devil's been
used to spend the best part of them for me and put 'em into the landlord's till.  Now I takes
'em to buy bread and clothes for the wife and children.  Another thing, and better still, I've
got one or two good friends as pulled me out of the mire, and won't let me go.  Tommy Tracks
there, as you call him, he's one of them; and your good friend the vicar,--for he is your friend,
think as you please,--he's another. And, best of all, I've got a clear head and a clear conscience,
and a hope of a better home by-and-by, and a Saviour above all to look to; and I shouldn't
have had none of these if I'd been going on in my old ways. So you may laugh if you please
when you say, `Jim Barnes has turned teetotaler;' but I mean to sing when I says it, for it's
true, and he means to stick to it, with God's help, all the days of his life."

Having delivered himself of this brief address, James Barnes hurried down from the platform,
followed by a roar of hearty applause, which completely drowned the efforts of a few dissentient
voices.

The vicar was now just rising to call on another speaker to address the meeting, when his attention,
as well as that of the whole audience, was turned to William Foster as he got up deliberately
from his seat.  Mr Maltby had watched him narrowly during the evening, and not without considerable
anxiety and interest.  Up to the close of Barnes's speech Foster had apparently taken little
or no interest in the proceedings; certainly he had not joined either in the applause or in
the dissent. What was he now about to do?  Turning to the vicar, amidst a breathless silence
throughout the hall, he said, in a firm and clear voice, "Mr Chairman, may I say a few words
to this meeting?"  The vicar hesitated. Was this man going to spoil all?  His eye at that moment
caught Thomas Bradly's.  Thomas nodded to him, and then turned to Foster and said, "Get you
on to the platform, William; the vicar and all the rest of us will give you a patient hearing,
I'm sure."  Foster then mounted the platform, and stood for a moment facing the audience without
speaking. He was very pale, and his voice trembled at first, but soon recovered its firmness
as he spoke as follows:--

"Mr Chairman and fellow-townsmen, I have not come here to-night to oppose the temperance movement,
but quite the contrary.  I am quite sure that movement has been doing good in this town, and
is doing good still. You have only to look at Jim Barnes to see that.  Everybody knows what
he was, and everybody knows what he now is; there is no sham nor deceit in the matter.  Now,
whatever our creeds may be, whether we think alike in other things or not, there can be no
two opinions about this matter with honest and reasoning men.  The temperance movement is doing
good, and we have before us a plain proof of it.  Now, I am not here to-night merely to talk.
I should not have come if that were all.  I have come to act.  I have professed to be a reasoning
man, and to belong to a party that prides itself upon being governed by reason, and yet I have
allowed myself to come more or less under the dominion of that strong drink which just turns
a reasoning man into something far lower than an irrational brute.  `Well, then,' some of you
might say, `can't you exert your own will and give it up without coming to a temperance meeting
to talk about it?'  Yes, I could; but that would be just merely doing good to myself.  Now,
I can't help being aware that your chairman, the vicar of this parish, and his right-hand man,
Thomas Bradly, are not content with being total abstainers for their own benefit, but are doing
their best, spite of ridicule, opposition, and persecution, to get others to become abstainers
also.  They can have nothing to gain by this except the happiness of making others happy. 
I see this plainly; and my reason (they would call it conscience, I suppose) tells me that,
if I am a really honest and unprejudiced man, I ought to follow their example.  I am here to-night
to do it.  I have other reasons besides for taking this course, but I do not think it necessary
to mention them on the present occasion.  I know what it will cost me to take this step, but
I have well weighed the consequences and am prepared to accept them.  Mr Chairman, I will sign
the pledge to-night in your book, and join your society, if you will allow me."  Having spoken
thus, William Foster quietly resumed his seat.

The effect of this speech on the meeting was most overwhelming.  Every word had been heard
all over the hall, for Foster had a clear and powerful voice, and had spoken calmly and deliberately,
as one who weighed every word and sentence carefully; and the silence while he addressed his
audience had been almost oppressive.  Was it possible that Foster could be in earnest?  There
was no mistake about it--every man was at once convinced of this from the vicar down to the
most sottish of the anti-temperance gathering.  Such a man as Foster would never have come
forward in this way had he not had powerful and all-constraining motives to lead him to take
such a step.  When he sat down there was neither shouting nor laughter: the great body of working-men,
including the obstructionists, seemed stupified; they looked at one another with open-eyed
and open-mouthed wonder, and whispered their amazement and perplexity.  Then the vicar, struck
dumb for the moment by sheer astonishment, after exchanging with his brother clergyman on the
platform a glance of deep thankfulness, rose, and addressing William Foster, said, "I cannot
tell you, my friend, how truly glad I am to find that you have been guided to take such a step
as you now contemplate; most cordially shall I receive your signature in our pledge-book, and
welcome you to our society."  Then the crowd of hearers rose to their feet, and gave vent to
their feelings in three hearty cheers; while the opponents of the cause made their way to the
door as quickly as they could.

The next minute Thomas Bradly stood by the vicar's side, and all sat hushed in attention as
he addressed the meeting.  Tears were in his eyes, and half-choked was his voice as he began:--

"Friends, I've been at many a temperance meeting in my day, but never at one that I shall remember
like this.  Some of us abstainers came here to-night with doubting hearts; it seemed as if
the evil one was a-going to put a big stone or two in the way of the temperance cause, but
instead of that he's been and trod upon his own tail, as he often does. O bless the Lord for
his goodness!  We've had a mighty large stone took out of the way, instead of any new 'uns
laid in our path.  Ah!  Why should we ever be fainthearted?  The cause is a good cause, and
it will prosper, depend upon it.  And now, friends, there's many of you here to-night as came,
I know, just for a bit of fun; you didn't mean no harm, but you wouldn't have minded a little
bit of a laugh against us. But it's turned out just the other way: you've given us a help,
and stopped the mouths of them as would have upset our meeting; so let them laugh as wins.
And now, friends, I want to say a word to you about our friend William here.  We're all thinking
about him; he has come forward like an honest man to-night, and a right brave man too.  I know
he can't have done it without having to pay for it.  I know, and you know too, as it'll not
be all smooth work between him and his mates.  Now, whether you like or don't like what he
has done to-night, you can't help respecting him for it; so just keep your tongues off him
when you meet him, and do him a kind turn if you can.  He and I ain't of one mind, you well
know--at least we haven't been; but he knows this, that in anything that's good I'll back him
up through thick and thin if he'll let me. And now, here's a grand opportunity; just some of
you chaps as have been cheering him like anything come up to the table and sign the pledge
with him, and keep it by God's help, and you'll bless this night every day of your lives, and
so will the wives and children."

There was a cheery response to this speech in many a hearty word of assent; and then the vicar
closed the meeting, inviting any who were willing to come and sign.  The crowded room was soon
emptied of all but a very few, among whom were William Foster and about a dozen more of the
working-men, who expressed their intention to sign with him.  Foster himself signed his name
with an unflinching hand, but said nothing.  The vicar thought it wisest not to endeavour to
draw him into conversation at this time, but with a kindly shake of the hand, and an expression
of thankfulness at his joining the Temperance Society, bade him good-night.

As the committee and the speakers were leaving the hall, the vicar kept Thomas Bradly back,
and said to him: "This is wonderful indeed; it is the Lord's doing, and is marvellous in our
eyes.  Now you must keep your eye, Thomas, on Foster; I think you will get at him at first
better than I should be likely to do.  You will be able to see just how the land lies, and
I shall be ready to come in at any time; only with such a man we must use discretion, knowing
what his antecedents have been."

"Ay, surely," replied the other; "I'll not let him go, sir, now that we've got hold of him--you
may depend upon it.  Oh!  This is indeed what I never could have dreamt of.  Well, we've had
a grand night; and it's a sign, I believe, as we're going to have some rare bright sunshine
on our temperance work."

"I trust and believe so, indeed," rejoined Mr Maltby, and they parted.

That meeting was never forgotten in Crossbourne, but was always spoken of as emphatically the
great Crossbourne Temperance Meeting.

CHAPTER TEN.

LIGHT IN THE DARK DWELLING.

The day that followed the great temperance meeting was one full of excitement to the operatives
of Crossbourne.  Every mill and workshop resounded with the eager hum of conversation and conjecture
touching the marvellous occurrence of the previous evening--the speech and conduct of William
Foster.  Of course a variety of distorted versions of the matter flew abroad, and were caught
and carried home into the country by some who lived at a distance from the town.  Among these
versions was a strongly affirmed and as strongly believed account of the last night's occurrences,
which set forth how William Foster, with a picked party of his friends, had forced their way
to the top of the hall, and were in the act of mounting the platform for the purpose of turning
the vicar out of the chair, when a voice of unearthly loudness was heard to shout, "Forbear!"--upon
which the meeting broke up in wild confusion, leaving Foster prostrated on the ground by some
invisible and mysterious power, where he lay till brought back to consciousness by the joint
efforts of Mr Maltby and Thomas Bradly; after which, at their earnest suggestion, he there
and then signed the pledge.

Foster's own companions, however, had not been altogether taken by surprise.  For some weeks
past he had been absent from his club, and from the public-house, and when questioned on the
subject had given short and evasive answers.  A change had been coming over him--that was clear
enough; but whence it originated even those who had been the most intimate with him were at
a loss to conjecture.  And now on the morning after the meeting, when he walked into the mill-yard,
while some looked on him with the sort of wonder with which a crowd would gape at some strange
animal, the like of which they had neither seen nor heard of before, others began to assail
him with gibes and taunts and coarse would-be witticisms.  But Foster bore it all unmoved,
never uttering a word in reply, but going on steadily with his work.  As the men, however,
were about to leave for their homes, after the mill had loosed, a sneering, sour-looking fellow,
one Enos Wilkinson, who had gathered a little crowd about him, and was watching for Foster,
whose work detained him a little later than the ordinary hands, stepped across his path, and
raising his voice, cried, "Come now, Saint Foster, you'll be bringing out a nice little book
about your conversion, to edify us poor sinners who are still in heathen darkness.  When do
you mean to favour us with the first edition?"--"The day after you become sober and sensible,
Enos," was Foster's reply, and he walked on, leaving his persecutors unprepared with an answer.

Two hours later, and Thomas Bradly might be seen standing outside Foster's house, with a happy
smile on his face, and a short whispered conversation going on between two parts of himself.
"Now, then, Thomas, you're in for it."  "Ay, to be sure; and in for a good thing too." "What'll
Will Foster say?  And what'll you say, Thomas?"  "Ah!  Well, all that's best left in the Lord's
hands."

After this a loud, decided knock on Thomas's part, and then the cautious tread of a woman inside.

"All right, missus; it's only me, Thomas Bradly."

No answer for a minute, and then the heavier tread of a man.  Foster himself opened the door,
and holding out his hand, said,--

"Come in, Thomas.  You're just the man I've been wanting to see."

"And you're just the man I'm right glad to hear say so," was the other's reply.

The two men walked into the inner room together.  All was very neat, and the whole place wore
an air of comfort far different from what had been its appearance in days past.  But the greatest
change was in Foster's wife.  Bradly, who had met her often in the street or in the shops,
could hardly believe her to be the same.  "Ha, ha!" said he inwardly to himself; "the Lord's
been at work here, I can see."  Yes!  There was that marked change on the features which can
come only from a changed heart.  There was peace on that face--a peace whose tranquil light
had never shone there before.  There was not joy yet, but there was peace. Not, indeed, peace
unmixed, for there was a shade of earth's sadness there still; but God's peace was there, like
a lunar rainbow, beautiful in its heavenly colouring cast upon the clouds of sorrow, but not
intensely bright.  As she held out her hand to Bradly to give him a friendly welcome, he could
see that her eyes were full of tears.  "All right," he said to himself; "the work's begun."

As he was seating himself on one side of the fire, his eye fell on a little, stout, shabbily-bound
volume lying in a corner near some showily-ornamented books.  Could it really be a Bible? 
"Right again," thought Thomas; "I ain't often mistaken about that book.  The secret's out;
I see what has worked the change."

"I'm truly glad, but almost ashamed, to see you, Thomas," began Foster, seating himself opposite
his guest.  "However, I'm glad now of this opportunity of expressing my regret for the many
hard and undeserved things I've spoken against you, both to your face and behind your back."

"Never give it another thought, William," cried the other.  "You've never done me the least
harm; but quite the other way.  It's as good as physic, and a deal better than some physic,
to hear what other people think of us, even if it ain't all of it quite true to the life."

"Ah!  But I did you injustice, Thomas."

"Never mind if you did.  You never said half as much evil of me as I knew of myself.  But let
by-gones be by-gones.  You've made me happier than I can tell you; for I can see plainly enough
as the Lord has been laying his loving hands on you and your missus."

"You are right, Thomas; and I know it will give you real pleasure to hear how it has all come
about.--So sit down, Kate, and help me out with my story."

Ah, what a different scene was this from that sorrowful time when the poor, broken-hearted
young mother leant hopelessly over the cradle of her little one thirsting for that which she
knew not where to find!  Now the same wife and mother sat with a smile of sweet contentment,
busily plying her knitting, while her husband told the simple story of how the God of the Bible
had "brought the blind by a way that they knew not."

"You know what I have been, Thomas," began Foster.  "Well, I am not ashamed now to confess
that I never was really happy, nor satisfied with my own creed.  Spite of my conviction of
my own superior knowledge, I could not help acknowledging to my inward self that you were right
and I was wrong; at least, I saw that your creed did for you what my creed could not do for
me.  It was very pleasant and flattering, of course, to be looked up to as an oracle by the
other members of my club, and to get their applause when I said sharp things against religion
and men whose views differed from our own.  But all the while I despised those very companions
of mine, and their praises; and, what's more, I despised myself.

"And another thing--I had no real happiness at home, nor poor Kate neither.  I was disappointed
in her--she won't mind my saying so now-- and she was disappointed in me.  We had nothing to
bind our hearts together but a love which wanted a stronger cement than mere similarity of
tastes.  Besides which--for I may as well speak out plainly now while I'm about it--it was
poor satisfaction to come home and find books lying about, and scarce a spark of fire in the
grate; no tea getting ready, but, instead of it, twenty good reasons why things were not all
straight and comfortable.  And these reasons were but a poor substitute for the comforts that
were not forthcoming, and only made matters worse.  And if there was neglect on her part, there
was plenty of fault-finding on mine.  I was sharp and unreasonable; and then we both of us
lost our temper, and I was glad to seek other company, and began to care less and less for
my home, and more for the public-house and for the drink which gives the inspiration to the
conversation you meet with in such places.

"Sometimes things would go on a little better, but not for long.  And when we got to angry
words with one another, we had no higher authority than ourselves to appeal to when we would
set one another right. Thomas, I see this more plainly every day now.  Freethinkers--would-be
atheists, like my former self--are at an immense disadvantage compared with Christians in this
respect.  A Christian has a recognised, infallible authority to which he can appeal--the will
of his God, as set forth in the Word of his God.  When he differs from a fellow-Christian,
both can go to that authority, and abide by its decision.  Christians will do this if they
are honest men, and really love one another.  We freethinkers have no such court of appeal.
However, let that pass.

"Things went on as I've been telling you, and were getting worse.  Our two hearts were getting
further apart every day, and colder and colder towards each other.  This went on, and the breach
kept widening, till a few weeks ago.  You'll not have forgotten, I know, poor Joe Wright's
sad end.  Well, it was a few days after the accident that I came home much the worse for liquor,
I'm ashamed to say, and in a particularly bad temper.  Things had not been pleasant at the
club.  One of the members had been breaking the rules; and when I pointed this out, I was met
with opposition, and the determined display of an intention on the part of several others to
side with the offender.  Words ran high, and I spoke my mind pretty freely, and received in
return such a shower of abuse as fairly staggered me.  So I betook myself to the public-house,
and drank glass after glass to drown my uncomfortable reflections, and then went home.

"The drink, instead of driving away my mortification, only made me more irritable; and when
I got into my own house, I was ready to find fault with everything, and to vent the bitterness
of my spirit on my poor little wife.  But, to my surprise, she did not answer me back, far
less repay my disparaging remarks with usury, which she might very well have done, and would
have done a few days before.  I could not help seeing, too, that she had been taking pains
to make the room look tidier than usual.  My supper was ready for me, my slippers set by the
fender, and the arm-chair drawn up near the fire.  I did not choose to make any remark on this
at the time; indeed, I got all the more cross, because I was annoyed by the sense of my own
injustice in being angry with her. So poor Kate had but a sad time of it that night.

"However, I had made a note in my mind of what I had seen, and I was curious to mark if this
change in domestic matters would continue.  To my surprise, and, I am ashamed to say, not altogether
to my gratification, I found that it did continue.  I was suspicious as to the motive and reason
for this change, and therefore not satisfied.  So I took the improvement in my poor wife's
temper and conduct very surlily; the real fact being, I now believe, that I was inwardly vexed
by being forced to feel that she was showing by her behaviour to me her superiority to myself.
But the change still continued, and I could detect no unworthy motive for it; so at last Kate's
loving ways and patient forbearance got the victory, and then I began to look around for the
cause of this transformation.  What could it have been that had made my wife so different,
and my home so different?

"While I now freely confessed to her my pleasure at the improvement, and endeavoured to repay
her loving attentions by coming home regularly in good time and sober, I forbore to question
her as to what had made such a difference in her, and she was evidently anxious to avoid the
subject. But I was resolved to find out how this new state of things had come about, and an
opportunity for doing so soon presented itself.  One evening there was a break-down at the
mill, and I returned home earlier than usual.  I was getting near the house, when I heard my
wife singing, and the tune was clearly a hymn tune.  The secret was discovered now.  I took
off my boots, and crept slowly up to the door.  The singing had stopped, and all was quiet.
Then I heard Kate's voice gently reading out loud to herself, and the words she read, though
I could not catch them distinctly, were manifestly not those of any book of science or amusement:
I could tell that by the seriousness of the tone of her voice.  The conviction then came strongly
upon me that she was reading the Bible, and that this book was the cause of the great change
in her. A thousand thoughts stirred in my heart.  I durst not venture to look in at the window,
lest she should see me, for I had not at all made up my mind what to do.  So I went back a
little distance, put on my boots again, and came into the house as if nothing had happened.

"I was unusually silent that night, and I saw Kate looking aside at me now and then with a
half-frightened glance, as if she was afraid that I was going to change back to my old unkind
ways.  I watched her very narrowly, and she saw it, and was uneasy.  The fact was, I wanted
to get at her Bible, if she really had one, and I had not yet the courage to speak to her about
it.  She knew how I had talked to her against it, and made a mock at it, and I couldn't yet
humble myself enough to ask for a sight of it.  I noticed, however, that she looked a little
anxiously at me when I turned down the baby's bed-clothes in the cradle to have a look at him;
and as I could see no Bible anywhere about the room, it darted into my mind that she had hidden
it under the clothes.  So when she was gone up into the bedroom, to set things to rights upstairs,
I found the book I was looking for stowed snugly away, and began to read it as eagerly as if
it had been a rich man's will leaving me all his property."

"You weren't far wrong there, William," broke in Thomas Bradly; "for the gospel is our heavenly
Father's will and testament, making us his heirs; and it's written with his own hand, and sealed
with the blood of his dear Son.  But go on, William."

"I don't doubt but you're right," resumed Foster.  "Well, as I read the little Bible, I was
quite astonished, for I saw how utterly ignorant I had been of its contents and teaching. 
Ah, yes; it's one thing to know a few texts, just enough to furnish matter for censure and
ridicule, and quite a different thing to read the very same book with a sincere desire to learn
and understand what it has to tell us.  I found it so, I can assure you.  So I learnt from
that humble little Bible of Kate's what all my philosophy and all the philosophy in the world
could never teach me.

"It isn't to the point now, but I'll tell you another time how this Bible came into Kate's
hands; for of course we had not one of our own in the house.  A singular chance I should have
called it a short time ago; but I'm coming more and more to your mind, Thomas, that chance
is only a wrong and misleading term for the guiding hand of One whom I now hope to trust in,
love, and obey, however unworthily."

"The Lord be praised, his blessed name be praised!" cried Thomas Bradly, while the tears ran
fast down his cheeks.

"Yes," said Foster reverently, "he may well be praised, for I have indeed good reason to praise
him.--So you see I had got to the bottom of the mystery at last, and that little book has become
to me now worth a thousand times its own weight in gold.

"Day after day I went on reading it by stealth, and every day I wondered more and more at its
marvellous suitableness to my own case.  And then I began to do that which a few weeks back
I should have looked upon as simply an evidence of insanity in a man of my views.  I began
to pray. I hardly dared make the attempt at first.  It seemed to me that were I to venture
to address the great Being whose existence I had denied, and whose name I had constantly blasphemed,
a flash of lightning or some other sudden exertion of his power would strike me dumb.  But
I did venture at last to offer up an earnest cry for mercy and pardon in the name of that Saviour
who invites us to offer our prayers in his name; and then it seemed as though a mountain were
lifted from my heart, and blindness were removed from my eyes.

"Next day, after tea, I quietly asked Kate for the Bible.  I shall never forget her look as
long as I live.  Fear, hope, joy followed one another like sunshine breaking through the clouds.
Could I be in earnest?  She did not hesitate long, for she saw that in my face which told her
that she might trust me with her treasure.  Then she brought out the book from its hiding-place,
put it on the table by me, and throwing her arms round my neck, wept away the sorrows of years.
And it may be that at that time angels looked down upon us, and shed tears of joy to see two
poor penitent sinners thus `sitting at the feet of their Saviour, clothed, and in their right
mind.'"

For a while no one spoke, for all were too deeply moved.  At last Foster continued: "I knew
I should have to come out on the right side openly sooner or later, but you may be sure it
would be no easy matter. However, I had made up my mind: it would have to be done some time
or other, so, as the Annual Temperance Meeting was soon to come off--I knew that, for Joe Wright's
party were boasting of what they meant to do--I determined to show my colours by joining your
society, and you have seen the result."

"Yes, William," said Bradly, cheerily, "I see it, and I bless the Lord for it; and if he has
made me in any way an unworthy instrument in helping to bring about this change, I can truly
say that he has paid me back interest a thousandfold for any little I've ever done or suffered
for him."

"Then, Thomas," said the other earnestly, "you may be pleased to know that it was your hand
that gave the first blows to the nail, though, it was my dear wife that was the means of driving
it home.  I often thought I could easily knock down your arguments, and, though I knew you
had the best of it--for you had honesty and truth on your side--yet when I went home after
one of our talks, I've vexed myself many a time by thinking, `Well, now, if I'd only thought
of this or that thing, I might have floored him.'  But there was one thing that always floored
me, and that was `the logic of the life;' I couldn't find an answer to that. And not only so,
but, as I said a little while ago, I saw that the religion of Jesus Christ made you truly happy,
and I knew that my free- thinking never did that for me nor for any of my like-minded companions;
so that deep down in my heart a voice was constantly saying, `Tommy Tracks is right.'  And
now I'm sure that he is so.  Thomas, I now ask your friendship and your help, as I have already
asked your forgiveness."

Bradly wrung the other's hand with a hearty grip, and then said, "You shall have them, William.
I know you'll be all the better for an earthly friend or two, for there'll want a deal of backing
up just at first.  But oh, I'm so truly thankful that you and your missus have got the best
Friend of all on your side, who will never leave you nor forsake you.  Yes, come what will,
you can go to One now who will keep peace in your conscience, peace in your heart and peace
and love in your home."

By Foster's request, before they parted, Thomas Bradly knelt with them and offered a prayer.
Ah, what a sight!  Glorious even for angels to look down upon!  Those three uniting in prayer--the
old disciple; the blasphemer, persecutor, and injurious; and the till late Christless wife--all
now one in Jesus, bowed at his footstool, while the humble servant of the Lord poured out his
heart in simple, fervent supplication and praise, as all bent head and knee in the felt presence
of the unseen God.

Next Sunday Foster was at church in the morning, and was there with his wife in the evening,
Mrs Bradly having undertaken to look after the baby.  As for Bradly himself, his face was a
sight worth seeing on that Sunday.  It was always brighter than usual on the Lord's-day; but
on this particular Sabbath every line of his features shone with a glow of gladness, as though,
like Moses, he had just come down from the mount. It need hardly be said that the vicar's heart
also deeply rejoiced.  As for the inhabitants of Crossbourne generally, some were glad, with
a spice of caution in their gladness; some shook their heads and smiled, meaning thereby to
let all men know that, in case Foster should not persevere in his new career, they, at any
rate, had never been over- sanguine as to the genuineness of his reformation; some simply looked
grave; while the profligate and the profane gnashed their teeth with envy hatred, and malice,
and exchanged vehement asseverations of "how they'd pay off the sneaking humbug of a deserter,
and no mistake."

CHAPTER ELEVEN.

A BLIGHTED LIFE.

Spring had come, but the cloud still rested on poor Jane Bradly.  True, her heart was lighter,
for she now believed with her brother that there was deliverance at hand for her, and that
the mists were beginning to melt away.  She was firmly persuaded that her character would be
entirely cleared.  But when?  How soon would the waiting-time come to an end?  And what good
could come out of such a trouble?  Here was the trial of her faith; but she bore it patiently,
and the chastening was producing in her, even now, "the peaceable fruit of righteousness."
She began to improve in health and strength, and had lost much of the look of abiding care;
for the habitual peace of a mind stayed on God, and the consciousness of innocence as regarded
the wrong-doing of which she had been suspected, kept her calm in the blessedness of a childlike
trust.

But there was one who lived not far from her, a sister in affliction, about whose sad heart
the clouds were gathering thicker and thicker. Spring, with its opening buds and rejoicing
birds, brought no gladness to the spirit of Clara Maltby.  She was gradually wasting away.
Change of air and scene had been recommended, but she would not hear of leaving home, and clung
with a distressing tenacity to her round of daily studies, shortening her brief time of exercise,
and seeming anxious to goad herself into the attainment of the utmost amount of knowledge which
it was possible for her to acquire, grudging every minute as lost and wasted time that was
not given to study.  To shine had become with her the one absorbing object; to shine, not,
alas! for Christ, but for self, for the world, that she might gain the prize of human applause.
So she was using the gifts with which God had endowed her, not to his glory, by laying them
at the foot of the cross, and employing them as talents with which she was to occupy till the
Master came, but as means whereby she might win for herself distinction, and outstrip others
in the race for earthly fame.  But such a strain on mind and body could not last; the overtaxed
faculties would assert their claim for the much-needed rest; and so, in the early spring-time,
Clara Maltby was suddenly stricken down and lay for days in a state of half-unconsciousness.

At last she rallied, in a measure; and when she was sufficiently recovered to bear conversation,
she earnestly begged that she might be allowed to see Thomas Bradly, and have an opportunity
of saying a few words to him in the presence of her parents, previously to her being taken
from home by her mother to the seaside, to which she had been ordered by her medical man, as
soon as she could bear the removal.  So one evening, after his work, Bradly, with a sorrowful
heart, made his way up to the vicarage, and was introduced by Mr Maltby into the inner room,
where his daughter had gathered together her own special library.

The patient lay on a low couch near the fire, which burned cheerfully, and lighted up, though
not with gladness, the care-smitten features of the vicar's daughter.  Close to her was a little
table, on which lay a small Bible, a pile of photographs, and a few printed papers.  Her writing
materials occupied part of a larger table, and were flanked on either side by heaps of volumes--scientific,
historical, and poetical; while beyond the books was a small but exquisitely-modelled group
of wax flowers, most life-like in appearance, under a glass shade.  Over the fire-place was
a large water-colour drawing of Crossbourne Church, with miniatures of her father and mother,
one on each side of it.  On the mantelpiece was an ivory statuette, beautifully carved, the
gift of a travelled friend; and other articles of taste and refinement were scattered up and
down the room.  But now the gentle mistress of this quiet retreat lay languid and weary, incapable
of enjoying these articles of grace and beauty which surrounded her.  There was a flush indeed
on her cheek, but no light in the heavy eyes.  She looked like a gathered flower,--fair, but
drooping, because it can strike no root and find no moisture.  Thomas Bradly was shocked at
the change a few days had made in the poor girl since he last saw her, and could hardly restrain
his tears.  At the head of the couch sat Mrs Maltby, with a face sadly worn and troubled; and
between her and the fire was her husband, on whose features there rested a more chastened and
peaceful sorrow.

"Come, sit down, Thomas," said Mr Maltby; "my dear child cannot rest till she has seen you,
and told you something that lies on her mind.  I think she will be happier when she has had
this little talk; and it may be that God will bless her visit to the sea, and send her back
to us in improved health.  I know we shall have your prayers, and the prayers of many others,
that it may be so."

"You shall, you do have our prayers," cried Bradly, earnestly; "the Lord'll order it all for
the best.  He's been doing wonderful things for us lately, and he means to give you and dear
Miss Clara a share of his blessings."

"Well," replied the vicar, "we will hope and trust so, Thomas.  The clouds have not gathered
without a cause; but still, I believe that, as the hymn says, they will yet `break with blessings
on our head.'--Clara, my child, it will not be wise to make this interview too long; so we
will leave the talking now to yourself and Thomas Bradly."

"Dear, kind friend," began Miss Maltby, raising herself from her couch, and leaning herself
on her mother, who came and sat by her, "I could not be satisfied to leave Crossbourne without
seeing you first, as I want you to do something for me in the parish which I cannot ask my
dear father to do.  And I want to make a confession also to you, as it may be the means of
doing some little good in the place where I have left so much undone, and as perhaps it may
not please God that I should come back again to my earthly home."

She was unable to proceed for a few moments, and Bradly dared not trust himself to speak, while
the vicar and his wife found it hard to control their feelings.

"Thomas," she at length continued, her voice gaining strength and her mind clearness under
the excitement of the subject which now filled her heart and thoughts, "I want you to say something
for me to my class--at least to those girls who belonged to it when I used to teach it.  Say
it to them in your own plain and simple way, and I trust that it may do them good.

"I want you to tell them from me that I have tried what the world and its idols are, and I
have found them `vanity of vanities.'  Not that I have been leading what is called a wicked
life; not that I have loved gay company or worldly amusements; not that I have lost sight of
Christ and heaven altogether, though they have been getting further off from my sight every
day; but I have been fashioning for myself an idol with my own hands, which has been shutting
out heavenly things from me more and more.  And now God has in mercy shattered my idol, and
I trust that I can see Jesus once more as I have not seen him, oh, for so long!

"I am startled when I look back and see how far I have gone astray, and how I have let the
devil cheat me with a thousand plausible falsehoods. Oh, what a useless life I have been leading!
What a selfish life I have been leading!  And yet I have been persuading myself that I was
only cultivating the powers which God gave me.  But it has not been so; it is as though I had
been set to draw a picture of our Saviour, and had ability and the best of materials given
me for making a beautiful likeness, and I had all the while gone on just drawing an image of
myself, and had then fallen down and worshipped it.

"Tell my girls, then,--for I may never have the opportunity of telling them myself,--that there
is no real happiness in such a life as mine has lately been.  It is really purely for self
is this struggle after distinction; God put us into this world for something far different.
I know, of course, that my scholars are not any of them likely to be snared exactly in the
same way that I have been.  Still, they might be tempted to think what a grand thing it would
be to have the advantages for getting knowledge and distinction that I have had.  Ah, but what
has been my life, after all?  Why, like that group of wax flowers under the glass shade.  Don't
they look beautiful?  But you see they are not real; they have no life and no sweetness in
them, and they can never make the sick and the suffering happy as real flowers do.  My life,
with all its advantages, and what people call accomplishments, has been as unreal, as lifeless,
as scentless as those wax flowers.  It has not pleased God; it has not made others happy; there
has been nothing to envy in it, but oh, quite the other way: it should rather be a warning.
Tell my girls so, for they have their temptations even in this direction; there is so much
attention paid now to head knowledge in all ranks and classes, and such a danger of neglecting
heart knowledge and Christ knowledge.  Show them how it has been with me.  Tell them how I
feel now on looking back.

"What have I really gained by this eager pursuit after earthly fame? Nothing.  I have strained
body and mind in seeking it--strained them, probably, past recovery.  And what have I lost
in the pursuit?  I have lost peace; I have lost a thousand opportunities of doing good which
can never be recalled; I have lost the happy sense of Jesus' love and presence.--Dear father,
would you give me that open book?--These words just suit my life, Thomas:--

  "`Nothing but leaves!  Nothing but leaves!'"

She paused, and hiding her face in her mother's breast, wept long and bitterly.

Thomas Bradly had listened with deep emotion to every word, but had not yet been able to command
himself sufficiently to speak.  But now he stretched his hand forward, and took up the little
hymn-book from which Clara Maltby had been reading, and, as he turned over its pages, said--"I
don't doubt, dear Miss Clara, but you've just said the plain truth about yourself; I've grieved
over it all, and prayed about it. But that's all past and gone now, and the Lord means to bring
good out of the evil, I can see that, and you'll let me read you these lines out of your book,
as I'm sure it ain't going to be `nothing but leaves' after all.

"Thank you, Thomas, thank you most sincerely," cried the sick girl, raising herself again.
"Yes, I trust that these beautiful words do apply to me.  Jesus has gone after me, a poor wandering
and rebellious sheep, and brought me back again.  Do then, kind friend, tell my dear class
for me that I have found all out of Christ to be emptiness, and that there can be no true happiness
here unless we are working for him.

"Of course, I might have pursued my studies innocently had I given to them leisure hours when
other duties had been done, and then they would have been a delight to me, and a source of
real improvement.  But instead of that I made an idol of them, and they became a snare to me.
I lived for them, and in them, and all else was as good as forgotten. Yes, even my Bible, that
was once so precious,--it might as well have lain on the shelf, and indeed, latterly, it has
seldom been anywhere else.  I had no time for reading it; earthly studies absorbed every moment.
But now it has become to me again truly my Bible; it has shown me, and shows me more and more
plainly every day, my sin and my neglect. Ah!  It is an awful thing when the struggle after
this world's honours and prizes makes us thrust aside thoughts of God and of the crown of glory.
It has been so with me.  I have been chasing an illuminated shadow until it has suddenly vanished,
and left me in a darkness that might be felt.

"Tell my girls, then, dear friend, to take warning from me.  Tell them how I mourn over my
wasted life; but tell them also that I have a good hope that God, for Christ's sake, has forgiven
me, and ask them to pray for me.  The great lesson I want you to impress upon them from my
case is just this, that no knowledge can be worth having that interferes with our following
our Saviour; that no pursuit, though it may not be outwardly sinful or manifestly worldly,
which unfits us in body or mind for doing our duty in that state of life to which it has pleased
God to call us, can be innocent, for it robs Jesus of that service which we all owe to him.

"And now I am going to ask you to give these photographs, one a piece, to my girls: they will
value them, I know, as the likeness of one who was once happy in being their teacher, and who
hopes, should God spare her, to be their teacher again; a better instructed teacher far, I
hope, because taught in the school of bitter but wholesome experience to know herself."

These last few words, uttered with deep feeling, made it necessary for Clara to pause once
more.  So Thomas Bradly, seeing that her strength was well-nigh exhausted, simply expressed
his hearty readiness to comply with her requests, and was rising to take his leave, when she
signed him to remain.

"Just one thing more, dear friend," she added, as soon as she was sufficiently recovered.--"Nay,
dearest mother, you must let me finish what I have to say.  I shall be happier and calmer when
I have told all.--O Thomas!  I have been on the very edge of a dreadful precipice; nay, I almost
fear that I have scarcely avoided beginning the terrible fall.  Finding myself unequal to the
full strain which my studies imposed upon me, I began to have recourse to intoxicating stimulants,
first a little, and then a little more, till at last I got to crave them, oh, how terribly!
And, alas! alas! worse still.  As I was ashamed to bring such things openly into my father's
house, I have employed a servant once or twice to fetch them for me, but simply as a medicine,
and I have found myself scheming how I might do this to a still greater extent without detection.
Oh, to what a depth have I fallen!  But I see it all now; the Lord has opened my eyes.  What
I wanted was rest, not stimulants.  And surely nothing could justify me in putting such a strain
upon my mind as to make it needful to fly to such a restorative.

"I don't ask you to mention this to my girls, nor to any one else, for it might not do good,
and might be a hindrance, in a measure, to my dear father in his work; but I tell it you to
ease my own heart, and that you may pray for me, and that you may hear me now, in the presence
of my beloved father and mother, declare that from this time forward I renounce all such study,
if God spare me, as shall unfit me for a loving service of Jesus, in my home and out of it,
and that I have done with all intoxicating stimulants, the Lord helping me, now and for ever."

"Bless the Lord!" said Bradly to himself, as, after a silent pressure of Clara Maltby's hand,
he stole out of the room.  "All's working for good, I'm sure," he added, as he walked homewards.
"We shall do grandly now. One great stone has just been struck out of our good vicar's path.
Satan's a queer, knowing customer, but he often outwits himself; and there's One wiser and
stronger than him."

CHAPTER TWELVE.

A MYSTERIOUS DISCOVERY.

A few days after Thomas Bradly's visit to the vicarage, Mrs Maltby and her daughter left home
for the seaside.  In the evening of the day of their departure, something different from the
ordinary routine was evidently going on at Thomas Bradly's.  As it drew near to half-past six
o'clock, four young women, neatly dressed, might be seen making their way towards his house.
These were shortly joined by three others; and then followed some more young women and elderly
girls, till at length thirteen were gathered together in the road, whispering and laughing
to one another, and evidently somewhat in a state of perplexity.

"What's it all about, Mary Anne?" asked a bright-looking girl of fifteen of one of the oldest
of the group.

"I'm sure I don't know," was the reply; "all I know for certain is, that I've been invited
to tea at Thomas's, at half-past six this evening."

"So have I"--"So have I," said the rest.

"There's no mistake or hoax about it, I hope?" asked one of the younger girls anxiously.

"Nay," said the one addressed as Mary Anne, "Thomas asked us himself, and he's not the man
to hoax anybody."

Just at this moment the front door opened, and Bradly himself, full of smiling welcome, called
upon his guests to come in.

A comfortable meal had been prepared for them in the spacious kitchen, and all were soon busily
engaged in partaking of the tea and its accompaniments, and in brisk and cheerful conversation;
but not a word was said to explain why they had been invited at this particular time. Their
host joined heartily in the various little discussions which were being carried on in a lively
way by his guests, but never, during the tea, dropped a hint as to, why he had asked them.

At last, when teapots and cups had disappeared, leaving a clear table, and the young women,
after grace had been duly sung, sat opposite to one another with a look of amused expectation
as to what might be coming next, Thomas rose deliberately from his arm-chair, which he had
drawn to the head of the table, and looking round on the young people with a half-serious,
half-humorous expression, said: "Well, I suppose, girls, it may be as well if I tell you what
I've asked you here for this evening."

No answer, but a murmur of amused assent being given, he proceeded:--

"Now, my dear young friends, I'll just tell you all about it; and I'm sure you'll listen to
me seriously, for it's a serious matter after all. You know that poor Miss Clara Maltby is
gone from home to-day very ill, so ill that it mayn't be the Lord's will she should ever come
back to us again.  Now she has asked me to give you all and each a message from her--perhaps
it may be a dying message.  She sends it to every one as belonged to her class when she taught
it.  I'm going to tell you what she said, not quite in her own words, but just what I took
to be her meaning.

"You know as she's not taken her class for a good long time.  We was all very sorry when she
gave over, but it seemed as it couldn't be helped, for she was getting weak and worn, and felt
that coming to church twice on the Lord's-day was as much as her poor mind and body would bear.
But she wants me to tell you how she feels now she's been letting earthly learning get too
much hold of her thoughts.  Not as there's any harm in getting any sort of good learning, so
long as you don't get it in the wrong way.  But it seems as this earthly learning had been
getting too big a share of Miss Clara's heart.  I daresay you all know as she's wonderful clever
at her books.  Eh, what a sight of prizes she's got! Well, but she'd come to be too fond of
her studies; they was becoming a snare to her; she'd made a regular idol of them, and could
scarce think of anything else.  She'd given them all the time she could spare, and more.  And
so it kept creeping on.  These studies of hers, they'd scarce let her eat or drink, or take
any exercise, or read her Bible and pray as she used to do.  Ah, how crafty the evil one is
in leading us astray! He don't make us jump down into the dark valley at one or two big leaps,
but it's just down an incline, like the path as leads from Bill Western's house to the smithy:
when you've got to the bottom and look back, you can hardly believe at first as you've come
down so low.

"Now, you're not to run away with the idea that Miss Clara has forsaken her Saviour, and given
up her Bible and prayer.  Nothing of the sort! She's a dear child of God, and always has been
since I've knowed her; only this learning and these studies have so blocked up her heart, that
they've scarce left room for her gracious Saviour.  But yet he'd never let her go, and she
hadn't altogether forsaken him; only she's been on a wrong course of late, and she sees it now.

"Friends have flattered her, and told her what grand things she might do with such a head-piece
as hers, and she's been willing to listen to them for a bit.  But now the Lord has brought
her to see different, and she wants me to tell you what a snare she has found this learning
to be. She wants me to tell you from her that she's found it out in her own experience as there's
no happiness out of Christ; as head knowledge can never make us happy without heart knowledge
of Jesus.

"It's all very well wishing to shine in the world and be thought clever, but that's just pleasing
self, and can never give us real peace.  She's tried it, and she says it's `vanity of vanities.'
It's led her away from her duty, and made her neglect helping her dear father and mother in
many ways where she might have been useful, just because her head and her heart were full of
her books.

"Now, perhaps some of you may be thinking, while I've been talking, `Well, this don't concern
us much; we ain't in danger of going astray after too much learning.'  Don't you be too sure
of that.  There's traps of the same kind being laid before you by the old enemy, though they
mayn't be got up so fine as them by which he catches clever young ladies.  Ah, perhaps he'll
be whispering to some of you as it'll be a grand thing to get up a peg or two higher by learning
all sorts of things with queer and long names to 'em.  Won't you just make folks open their
eyes when you can rattle off a lot about this science and that science?  But what good will
it do you?  How much will you remember of it ten years hence?  What'll be the use of it, when
you've got homes of your own, if you've your heads cram full of hard names, but don't know
how to mend your clothes or make a pudding?  Depend upon it, there's need to listen to Miss
Clara's message when she bids me tell you from her as there's no real happiness to be got in
making an idol of learning or anything else, and that there's no happiness out of Christ; and
that the chief thing is just to do one's duty, by grace, in `the state of life to which it
has pleased God to call us;' and then, if he means us to do something out of the way, he'll
chalk out a line for us so broad and plain that we shan't be able to mistake it.

"So now I've given you the message; but there's something else for you besides.--Here, missus,
just hand me that little brown paper parcel."-- So saying, he opened the packet which his wife
gave him, and taking out the photographs, handed one to each of the girls, saying, "It's a
keepsake to each of you from Miss Clara."

As the little gifts were received, tears and sobs burst from the whole company; and when time
had been given for the first vehemence of their feelings to subside, Thomas continued,--

"I've just one or two more things to say; and the first is this: will you all promise me to
pray for our dear young lady, that she may be restored to us in health and strength again,
and take her place once more as your teacher?"

"Ay, that we will with all our hearts," was the cry, which was uttered with tearful earnestness
by all.

"And will you pray, for yourselves, for grace to remember and profit by the lesson which she
has sent you?"

"We will, Thomas, we will," was again the cry.

"Well, thank God for that," said Bradly.  "He's bringing good out of evil already, as he always
does,--bless his holy name for it!  And now, I've just to tell you, girls, why I've asked you
to tea, and given you the messages and the photographs in this fashion--I daresay some of you
can guess."

"I think we can, Thomas," said one of the elder ones.

"Well, it were just in this way," he continued: "I'm jealous about our dear vicar's character,
and about dear Miss Clara's, and I'm sure we all ought to be.  Now, if I'd given you her message
in the Sunday-school, even if I'd had your class by yourselves, ten to one some of the other
scholars would have got hold of things by the wrong end, and it would have been made out as
Miss Clara had been doing something very wicked, and her mother had been taking her away in
consequence.  Now, you see how it is: Miss Clara's done nothing to disgrace herself or her
family; she's been following a lawful thing, only she's been following it too closely; but
she's found it to be only like chasing a shadow after all. And now that the Lord has humbled
her, he'll raise her up again; she'll come out of the furnace pure gold; she'll be such a teacher
when she comes back as she never was afore, if the Lord spares her.  So now that I've got you
here in this quiet way, I want you all to promise me you'll not go talking about what Miss
Clara sent me to tell you, but you'll keep it as snug as possible; it ain't meant for the public,
it's meant only for yourselves.  The world wouldn't understand it; they'd think as there was
something behind.  And the devil, he'd be only too glad to make a bad use of it.  So promise
me to keep our dear young lady's lesson to yourselves in your own hearts and memories.  You
can show the photographs to the other scholars, and tell them as they was Miss Clara's parting
gifts to her class, and that's all as they need to know."

The promise was cheerfully given by all; and then, before they left, all knelt, and in their
hearts joined in the fervent prayer which Thomas Bradly offered for the vicar and his family,
and specially for the invalid, that she might be spared to return to them in renewed health,
and be kept meanwhile in perfect peace.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The evening after this little happy tea-party, Thomas Bradly called in at William Foster's.
He found the young man and his wife studying the Bible together; but there was a look of trouble
and anxiety on the husband's face which made him fear that there was something amiss.  He was
well aware that his former foe but now firm friend was but a weak and ignorant disciple; and
he expected, therefore, that he would find it anything but smooth sailing at first in his Christian
course.  Still, what a marvellous change, to see one so lately a sceptic and a scoffer now
humbly studying the Word of Life!

"Anything amiss?" asked Bradly.  "Can I be of any service to you, William?" he added, as he
took his seat.

"Well, Thomas," replied the other, "I can only say this--I had no idea how little I knew of
the Bible till I began to study it in earnest.  I see it does indeed need to be approached
in a teachable spirit.  But I have my difficulties and perplexities about it still.  Only there's
this difference now,--I've seen in my own home, and I see daily more and more in my own heart,
abundance to convince me that the Bible is God's truth. So now, when I meet with a difficulty,
I see that the obscurity is not in the Bible but in myself; in fact, I want more light."

"I heartily believe it, Thomas; still there is much that is very deep to me--out of my depth,
in fact.  But there is one thing just now which is a special trouble to me.  They don't chaff
me so often at the mill now, but this evening Ben Thompson came up to me, and said, `Do you
think it's any good your turning Christian?'--`Yes, Ben, I hope so,' I said.--`Well,' he went
on, `just you look in the Bible, and you'll find that there's what they call the unpardonable
sin--there's no forgiveness for those who've been guilty of it; and if there's truth in that
Bible, there's no forgiveness for you, for you've been the biggest blasphemer against the Bible
in Crossbourne.'  Thomas, I hadn't a word to answer him with; his words cut me to the heart,
and he saw it, and went off with a grin full of malice.  Is it true that there is no forgiveness
for me?"

