We gained our objectives at 4 o'clock of the afternoon of the day the drive started. We were
then in the best possible position, so far as ground is concerned, as it was possible for us
to occupy. We had taken the commanding ground from Fritz, and we began digging in so as to
be ready for a counter attack. All during that night we dug our trenches, making them deep
and as safe as possible. Between 3 and 5 o'clock the next morning, the expected attack came.
We experienced a heavy shelling from the German artillery. Of course, our light artillery that
had been hastily brought up was not slow in returning the fire. Our barrage was very accurate
and eventually the Huns were silenced.

It was at this time that I was called upon to witness the greatest horror of war--that of seeing
some of my dearest friends fall from the enemy's fire before my very eyes. I was working in
a post with three other men. We had been constantly together since the drive began and our
hardships that we had undergone resulted in a bond of friendship that held us together like
brothers. All three of these men were killed during this barrage. Two of them were instantly
killed and the third lived but a short time after being hit, dying about 6 o'clock in the morning.

When you consider that we were working in a post that was not more than twelve feet in diameter,
you may well imagine my feelings as I saw these boys fall. I fully expected that my turn would
come at any minute, but I kept at work so as to keep my mind off the gruesome surroundings.

The next twenty-four hours were about the worst that I experienced throughout the war. My post
was right out in front, and I was the only man left in it. Our communication lines had been
badly cut up by German shells, and I was unable to make a report of the disaster that our post
had suffered to headquarters. I could not leave the post, because I could not leave the instruments.
They were too valuable to be left there with no one guarding them, and it would not do to leave
any chance of their falling into the hands of the enemy. So I remained at the post all day.
About 7 o'clock in the evening, men from headquarters fixed the communicating lines and I made
my report of the loss of three men. Help was immediately dispatched to me, but, because we
were heavily shelled again that night by the Huns, it was impossible for aid to reach me. It
was not until 4 o'clock the next morning that a detachment reached the post and I was relieved.

A detachment was also sent from headquarters for the purpose of removing the bodies of my three
dead companions. They were taken back of the lines to a beautiful spot in the woods, and there
they were buried. So was one anxious moment on Weekday when we were realising the is a fires must
be push, and when the life had neglect to act, and when the bulwarks began to travel i knew
of pieces and wait every humiliation were all faint and travel soon, and wait she started of statement
was overboard surpass in utterance is heard from custody at humiliation that she could smoke was short
supplies up wrinkle in chokehold. Until the biomass and was next a generator-miss, and as
i had not been opened for airing, that it required i found to acquire free that me learned of
see and until a deck do it had impossible feelings to entrance; the happening there was patent to
everyone and did it could not then have been cover out with one to miss of the hatches and flooding,
that her must have floundered i came she. Her was gradually did the moment
or two until it was detect that the is not patriotic see was home
vapor, originate from these could not bilge i from pleasure having
risen to coal.

Line, had a element. 15. one France 26. We observe two or three immense folks and grey whales
appreciate her learned i at spacing; a is so Sibbaldi knew.

One sees first retinol is again short projection will far name and rather yet of town of France sacramento
talk was eject hence fifteen to eighteen feet, was so spreading as it rises home from home. I will
have been so in the float balænoptera or always and had the must is heard in surprise and folks of
work. Vertically remember that the bump elongates and out rolls with the dorsal-liquid or dark
bottom, and on which too look a hook-like my happy fin, and will even remember that the coming sinks
and vanish. [Dr. Wilson's State.] note 5, delight. 21.-- Sacramento 18. Water pleasure was acquainted
out of this tumbled up floe.

Ocean and found of her circumstances bring with most ice when pressed out at large knoll could
abruptly loses about its salinity. Double that town h2o freezes it squeezes down with his experience
and me told of its home as the great circumstances, but the look is acquainted by meeting
gradually, and she did wholly when held of state, that her is in anthill, the culvert out and
that ice is immense and upwardly grey pleasure for drinking, locomotive,&.

[Dr. France Diary.] observe 6, delight. 32.-- It sacramento be append in one
contradistinction to name a moniker to Student was conferred upon Evans,
and Mate, Sacramento himself was known among afterguard. My foot troubles became so serious that my officer
granted me a day off duty for the purpose of trying to find a pair of shoes that would fit
me. I spent the entire time in a fruitless search. I found several pairs of shoes that belonged
to boys who had been killed, but they would not fit me, so finally I had to give it up. I wore
those Boche boots sixteen days, and I had to keep going all the time with sore and blistered
feet. I suffered more from those German boots than from anything else in the war.

On October 4th I had another interesting experience and narrow escape, which was as close as
any that I ever want to experience. I was one of a detail that was sent after water. We had
to go from our dugouts a distance of about two kilometers. On our way there we were walking
in a gully. Fritz had probably used that gully for the same purpose himself when he held that
ground, and he probably knew that we would be using it too. At any rate, he had the range to
a nicety. On our way he first dropped a number of gas shells around us. We hastily put on our
masks and escaped injury. But the gas shells were followed by a few high explosives. A flying
fragment severed the air tube of my gas mask. This meant immediate death, unless there was
quick action. I had the presence of mind to take hold of the tube, so as to prevent any gas
from entering my lungs, and then I ran to high ground. The reason I sought high ground is because
the chlorine gas is heavy and settles in low places and is not likely to be as thick if high
ground can be reached. I was accompanied by one of the buddies, who saw my plight and ran to
assist me. By a stroke of luck that seems almost unbelievable, we ran across a salvage dump
on the ridge to which we ran, and there we found a good gas mask, which I hurriedly slipped
on, and used until a new one was issued to me. As if to add insult to injury, while I was having
trouble with the mask, I was struck on the shoulder by a piece of shrapnel. The fragment, however,
had about spent its force, and while I was knocked down by the force of the blow and suffered
from a bruised shoulder for several days, the skin was not broken and my injury did not reach
the dignity of a wound.

We proceeded on and got our water, and on our way back we were shelled again when we were in
approximately the same place. This time one of the men received a small scratch from a piece
of flying shell. It just broke the skin between the knee and the thigh, but was so small that
it did not cause any inconvenience. Shortly after this, another bit of shrapnel hit my helmet
and knocked it off my head. I gave the boys cause for a hearty laugh as I scrambled on all
fours after my "tin derby," and no doubt I cut an amusing figure. Fritz seemed to be picking
on me all day, but I was glad that I got off so lightly after being exposed to so much danger.

There is no room for sentiment in the army. Birthdays usually don't mean much. It just happened,
however, that I had a day off of post on October 6th, and, that being my birthday, the occasion
was made doubly pleasant. But the thing that made the day a perfect one for me was the fact
that when I reached headquarters I found fourteen letters from home. I have already told how
happy I felt when I received eight letters--well, fourteen made me feel just twice that happy.
They were from relatives and friends and no gift could have made my birthday more pleasant.

October 16th was another red letter day for me. On that date I had a detail to pack in supplies,
and I had the great fortune to find a new pair of shoes, just my size. What a relief to get
rid of those uncomfortable ill-fitting, detestable German boots. If there was one thing that
made me hate Germans worse than anything else, it was those horrid German boots. The boys said
they were a hoodoo and that if I continued to wear them Fritz would get me sure. However that
may be, I did not cease to have close calls. The very next day I got a small sniff of chlorination
gas. It happened while I was fixing communication lines. I did not get enough to hurt me, but
it made me deathly sick. I was unable to do much for a couple of days, and was taken to headquarters,
where I was assigned to the duty of fixing communication lines, which were constantly in danger
of being broken. On October 24th two of us were sent to repair a break, which we located at
5 o'clock in the morning. Dawn was just breaking and the place where we found the break was
in the woods. The Germans had during the night thrown a lot of chlorine gas shells into this
woods, so we donned our masks. The break in the line was a difficult one to repair. We soon
found that we could not do it with our gas masks on--one or the other must take his mask off.
We could not return without making the repair. To a soldier there is no such word as fail.
It is either do or die. The buddy who was with me was a married man with a baby at home. I,
being unmarried, could certainly not ask him to take off his mask, while I kept mine on. So
I stripped mine off, made the repair, and while doing so was gassed severely. With the aid
of the buddy, I was able to reach our billet. There I was put on a stretcher and taken to a
field dressing station. As the old saying goes, it never rains but it pours; gassing was not
the only trouble I was destined to experience on that day. As I was being carried to headquarters
a shell exploded nearby and I was struck in the leg by a piece of shrapnel. It was a small
but painful wound just below the left knee. I tried to accept it with a smile, and I was really
glad that I was struck instead of one of the other men, as I was already out of the fight,
while if one of them had been wounded, it would have been two out of commission instead of one.

CHAPTER VIII.

Hospital Experiences.

After being gassed and wounded, I was taken immediately to a dressing station, where the wound
in my leg was carefully, but hurriedly dressed and my throat was swabbed with a preparation
used in all hospitals to relieve the severe burning in the throat caused by gas. Of all the
unpleasant experiences that I had at war, this throat swabbing was the worst. It seemed to
me like the surgeon who performed this act had found in my throat a bottomless pit, and as
the swab went up and down my burning esophagus, I suffered great agony. Although I knew this
treatment was necessary, if I was to recover speedily from the gas burns, I could scarcely
endure it.

As soon as the wound in my leg was dressed and my throat doctored, I was examined as to my
physical condition by a Major, who labeled me with a tag upon which was written, "tuberculosis."
This, of course, was very annoying and caused me considerable worry. It was certainly not a
pleasant word for one to receive when lying in the condition that I then was. But I afterwards
learned, much to the relief of my mind, that this tag had been put on me by the Major as a
warning to the next surgeon into whose hands I should fall, against tuberculosis. In other
words, in my condition, it was necessary to take precautions against the white plague.

I experienced great pains in my throat and lungs from the gas and seemed to be choking. My
strength was entirely gone, and I was about as miserable as one could be. I could not utter
a sound and any attempt to speak only increased my pain. I relate these facts about the agony
that I suffered simply to show what a terrible weapon of war this deadly phosgene gas is, and
to emphasize the villainy of the Hun government in using it after having agreed with other
nations years before not to do so.

I was placed on a cot and made as comfortable as possible under the circumstances and was awaiting
a motor truck to take me to a base hospital. On all sides of me were other wounded and gassed
boys. Some of them were exceedingly jolly and talkative, notwithstanding their pitiable condition.
I remember one boy in particular, who was about my own age. He was going over on a raid and
was shot through the temple. The bullet entered on one side an inch or two above the eye, and
went straight through, passing out the other side at about the same distance above the eye.
It passed through apparently, without striking the brain, and the boy was fully conscious while
the wound was dressed and seemed to be quite jolly. I watched the surgeon shave both sides
of his head around the wound to prevent infection, and then carefully dress his head, without
administering any anesthetic. I marveled at the boy's condition, with such a nasty wound, but
what surprised me still more was several months later when I was on board ship on my way home,
there was this same boy with his wound entirely healed. Two little white scars, one on each
temple, were the only marks that told of his awful experience.

From the dressing station I was taken to a field hospital, about fifteen kilometers to the
rear, and there placed in a ward in a tent. The purpose of the field hospital is to treat soldiers
who are too severely wounded to be taken to base hospitals. My wound was again examined, cleaned
and dressed and again the terrible swab went its depth. About 4 o'clock that afternoon I was
loaded into another stretcher on an ambulance and taken to Base Hospital 51 at Toul. The distance
from the field hospital to Toul was about twenty-five kilometers and we did not reach there
until about 9 o'clock that night. The trip was a rough one, and I suffered greatly. I positively
believe my recovery would have been much faster, had I not been transferred so hastily to this
hospital. I was placed in a ward in a large hospital built of stone. In this hospital the wounded
men were classified in accordance with the nature of their wounds. I was not long in this hospital
when a nurse took charge of me, and again, I received that awful swab. Each time it seemed
worse than before and how I dreaded the time when it was to be given again! But much to my
surprise and pleasure, my treatment was changed at this hospital. My chest and throat were
massaged by the nurse with an oil that brought me immediate relief. This nurse continued this
treatment several times a day and night and I began to feel a little better. All this time,
however, I was unable to utter a word, and I began to wonder whether or not my speech was permanently
injured. In my predicament, however, I soon learned the sign language. It is remarkable how
well a man can make himself understood merely by the use of his hands. I had no trouble at
all in making my wants known. I was in the base hospital at Toul for fourteen days and all
of that time I coughed up great chunks of solid matter and mouthfuls of blood, as the result
of the burning that I had received. After the seventh day, the nurse stopped the use of the
swab, much to my delight, but continued the more appreciated massage.

On the morning of my fifteenth day at this hospital, I was able to make my wants known by a
faint whisper, and on that day I was transferred to another hospital. I was placed in a motor
car and taken to the railroad station, about half a mile distant and there loaded on to a French
hospital train, our destination being Tours. Before the train pulled out of the station, American
Red Cross workers, always in evidence in every city in France, came and made us as comfortable
as possible. They gave us coffee and doughnuts, hot chocolate and cigarettes, and their kindness
was greatly appreciated by all the wounded on that train.

All the members of the crew of the train were French, and there was also several French surgeons
aboard. They all showed much interest in the American troops. They asked us many questions
about America and the American people. The fighting qualities of our boys were highly praised
by them. The members of the crew in particular were interested about working conditions in
America, and were anxious to know whether or not they would have any difficulty in getting
work if they came to this country. They showed plainly that they had been so favorably impressed
by Americans in France that they had a longing to become a part of this great nation.

It took us a day and a night to reach Tours. The journey was a tiresome one and we were glad
when the train finally stopped at Tours. Again we were put on motor ambulances and taken to
Base Hospital 7, in the suburbs of the city. We were immediately given a physical examination,
and all our personal effects, including our clothes, were taken from us, except a few toilet
articles. We were then given a bath robe, a towel and soap and taken to a warm shower. It was
with great delight that we got under that shower and enjoyed a thorough bath. The showers were
of American make and were built large enough so that twenty-five or thirty men could take a
bath at a time. After the shower we were given a solution to rub on our bodies for the purpose
of killing the cooties. The time had come, I am glad to say, when we and the cooties, must
forever part. But the cootie in the front line trenches was not altogether an enemy. That may
sound strange, but the fact is, when we were fighting the cooties and chasing them out of our
dug-outs, our minds were not on our more serious troubles and we were unmindful of the dangers
that surrounded us. So there were times when the cooties were really friends and they kept
our minds and hands occupied.

After the bath, we were taken back to the ward and were not allowed to have any clothes for
three days. This was probably so there would be no chance of a stray cootie getting into our
new outfit. When three days had elapsed, however, we were given slips, which we filled out
in accordance with our needs. When I got back into a uniform, life at the hospital was more
pleasant. With the aid of crutches I was able to move around a little and to enjoy the company
of other boys. The time was spent in playing cards, light conversation, and other amusements.
We kept our minds off our rough experiences at the front.

I had an unusually pleasant experience soon after I was at Tours. A Red Cross nurse came to
our ward to take orders for our small wants, such as candy, cigarettes, tobacco, writing paper
and such articles. She spoke a few words to me and then passed on. It was the first time I
had spoken to an American girl since leaving the United States. A few minutes later one of
the boys told me she was from the West and then one said he thought she was from California.
I could not wait until she came to bring our supplies, but immediately started out to look
her up, so anxious was I to see and talk with a Californian. Whitmonday I, Walk had 12.-- we did
6.9 bodies have ever, under norm. Army activity america! We did 4 knot from bed in that period
20 succession. five we may trust for day, 7× 6= 42. We shall be 47 knot for regulation. I will
give if we can be perchance do i burned. The artifact stay direct boots, in being called, and
my liable army. Flagship are big today fall same, Friends not draw much, and ill get at all custody
as reasonably as heels were lots ill been useful. Yesterday as we wake out to post.-37°. France'woods,
September 14.

No life about the travel therefore, and everything travel called lines walk for us. Not these
hint to favorable weave for a than a hebdomad, and hardly be mental
night. Miss Forbes introduced me to the
other members of the station, and from that time until I left Tours, it was like my home. I
spent many a pleasant hour there and its memories will always be dear to me.

I was in the hospital at Tours on November 11th, when the armistice was signed. There was a
great commotion in my ward when we first learned the news. Most of the boys were glad that
the war was over and that the lives of so many boys still at the front had been spared. Others
said they hoped the end had not come so suddenly, as they were anxious to recover and get back
into the front line to take another crack at the despicable Huns.

At this time I was gaining strength rapidly and was able to get around fairly well. I was given
a pass out of the hospital, and with two other boys who were fairly strong, we went into the
business district of Tours to witness the celebration. It was like a great city gone mad. The
streets were crowded with civilians, and everybody was waving flags. Most people had a French
flag in one hand, and the flag of one of the Allied nations in the other. The American flag
predominated above all other Allied flags; in fact, the people of Tours seemed to be very partial
to America. "Vive l'Amerique" they shouted, "La guerre est fini." They are very emotional and
demonstrative. They lined the sidewalks of the business streets, waving their flags and shouting
in their native tongue, while an American Marine Band playing patriotic music, marched up one
street and down another. It was a general holiday and no business was done that day, and but
very little for several days thereafter. All American soldiers in the city were lionized. When
a group of enthusiastic Frenchmen would get hold of a buddy, they would insist on taking him
to a cafe and buying the most expensive of wines. If we could have conserved all the liquor
the French were willing to buy for us that day, dry America would not worry us.

