What would these Men have, or why can't they be content to sink single into the bottomless
Gulph, without dragging so much Company thither with 'em? Can they grapple Omnipotence, or
are they sure they can be too hard for Heaven? Can they Thunder with a Voice like God, and
cast abroad the Rage of their Wrath? Cou'd they annihilate Hell, indeed, or did it only consist
of such painted Flames as they'd fain believe it, they might make a shift to be tolerably happy,
more quietly rake through the World, and sink into Nothing. There's too great reason to apprehend,
that this Infection is spred among Persons of almost all Ranks and Qualities; and that tho'
some may think it decent to keep on the Masque, yet if they were search'd to the bottom, all
their Religion wou'd be found that which they most blasphemously assert of Religion in general,
only a State Engin to keep the World in Order. This is Hypocrisie with a Witness; the basest
and meanest of Vices; and how come Men to fall into these damnable Errors in Faith, but by
Lewdness of Life? The Cowards wou'd not believe a God because they dare not do it, for Woe
be to 'em if there be one, and consequently any Future Punishments. From such as these, I desire
no Favour, but that of their Ill Word, as their Crimes must expect none from me, whose Character
obliges me to declare an eternal War against Vice and Infidelity, tho' at the same time heartily
to pity those who are infected with it. If I cou'd be ambitious of a Name in the World, it
shou'd be that I might sacrifice it in so glorious a Cause as that of Religion and Virtue:
If none but Generals must fight in this sacred War, when there are such infernal Hosts on the
other side, they cou'd never prevail without one of the antient Miracles: If little People
can but well discharge the Place of a private Centinel, 'tis all that's expected from us. I
hope I shall never let the Enemies of God and my Countrey come on without Fireing, tho' it
serve but to give the Alarm, and if I dye without quitting my Post, I desire no greater Glory.
I have endeavour'd to shew that I had no Personal Pique against any whose Characters I may
have given in this Poem, nor think the worse of them for their Thoughts of me. I hope I have
every where done 'em Justice, and as well as I cou'd, have given 'em Commendation where they
deserve it; which may also, on the other side, acquit me of Flattery with all Impartial Judges;
for 'tis not only the Great whose Characters I have here attempted. And if what I have written
may be any ways useful, or innocently diverting to the virtuous and ingenious Readers, he has
his End, who is

  Their Humble Servant

  S. WESLEY.

AN EPISTLE TO A FRIEND CONCERNING POETRY.

  As Brother Pryme of old from Mount Orgueil,
  So I to you from Epworth and the Isle:
  Harsh Northern Fruits from our cold Heav'ns I send,
  Yet, since the best they yield, they'll please a Friend.
    You ask me, What's the readiest way to Fame,
  And how to gain a Poet's sacred Name?
  For Saffold send, your Choice were full as just,
  When burning Fevers fry your Limbs to Dust!
  Yet, lest you angry grow at your Defeat,      }
  And me as ill as that fierce Spark should treat }                 10
  Who did the Farrier into Doctor beat;           }
  You to my little Quantum, Sir, are free,
  Which I from HORACE glean or NORMANDY;
  These with some grains of Common Sense unite,
  Then freely think, and as I think I write.
    First poize your Genius, nor presume to write
  If Phoebus smile not, or some Muse invite:
  Nature refuses Force, you strive in vain,
  She will not drag, but struggling breaks the Chain.