"I have said, this is a comprehensive command. To honor thy father and thy mother is not merely
to show them outward respect. It embraces numberless duties, and among them this; the duty,
while you are young, of doing nothing without their knowledge and consent, when you are in
a situation to ask it.

"Be assured of one thing. If you are about to go anywhere, or do anything, and a doubt arises
in your mind whether it is necessary to ask your mother's permission, be certain that you ought
to ask it. The very doubt in your own mind is sufficient evidence of the fact.

"Get into the habit of talking with your mother upon every subject; your diversions, your studies,
your health. Never conceal anything from her. Is she not your mother? Did she not give you
being? Who then shall you look up to, if not to her?"

"O," interrupted Mary, "I have sometimes begun to talk to my mother about many things which
I did not exactly understand, but somehow or other she was not willing to answer my questions."

"Perhaps," said Mrs. Spaulding, "you did not take a proper occasion, or she may have been very
busy about something else. You ought always to endeavor to take a proper time for everything.
At the same time," she continued, "I am sorry to say that there are some mothers who think
children cannot be talked to, and reasoned with, till they are of age. This is a mistaken idea.
Children have reasoning faculties, and the sooner we begin to converse with them accordingly,
the sooner will those faculties be developed. With this view, we ought always to encourage
them to give us their confidence on all occasions, gratify their curiosity, and allow them
to talk upon every subject to us. If we do not act thus, they will soon abstain from that frank
manner with which children ought always to lay open their whole hearts to their parents."

"O yes," cried Mary; "there is Emma Woodbury,--I do not believe she ever asks her mother's advice."

"No," said Clara, "and there is Jane Clifton's mother,--"

"Stop, my dears," interrupted Mrs. Spaulding, "these remarks of yours remind me that there
is another subject, about which I should like to have a conversation with you; and if your
mother, Mary, will give you permission to come home with Clara, after school to-morrow afternoon,
I will tell you what it is."

"O yes, I know she will," replied Mary. "Indeed, yesterday, I should not have thought of asking
her; but now, after what I have heard from your lips, I shall not do anything, or go anywhere,
without asking her consent."

"I am glad," responded Mrs. Spaulding, "that you remember this lesson so well. Now, Mary, you
had better go home; and may neither of you ever think otherwise than seriously, of the divine
command, to 'honor thy father and thy mother;' and remember that few persons have ever come
to harm when they grew up, who in their youth obeyed it."

UNCHARITABLE JUDGMENT.

CONVERSATION II.

Mary's mother cheerfully gave her leave to go home with Clara, the next day. She knew and highly
esteemed Mrs. Spaulding, and was very glad that her daughter should be intimate with her family.

Mrs. Spaulding greeted the girls with a smile and a kind word; then said, "Mary, you began
last evening to make a remark about Emma Woodbury. Will you tell me what you were going to say?"

"Certainly," replied Mary; "I was going to say that Emma scarcely ever asked the advice of
her mother, or her consent to do anything or go anywhere; and I know a great many girls who
act in the same way."

"And I," added Clara, "intended to say that Jane Clifton's mother was one of those whom you
spoke of, as never conversing with children in a rational and reasoning manner."

"I guessed as much," said Mrs. Spaulding. "I told you," she continued, "there was another point
upon which I wished to say a few words to you. Can you think what it is?"

"I cannot," said Mary. "Nor I either," said Clara; "certainly, I see no harm in the words we
uttered."

"True," responded Mrs. Spaulding, "there was no harm. It was not the words you spoke, but the
tone in which they were spoken, that attracted my attention; as if you were glad to be able
to point out somebody to whom the reproof could be applied.

"This blemish develops itself in a variety of ways. The pastor preaches an excellent sermon,
wherein is contained some allusion to faults which ought to be corrected. If the people had
treasured up in their hearts all his exhortations, they would not have forgotten one which
he has often endeavored to impress upon their minds; I mean, the duty of self-communion, self-examination;
and when he should have occasion to allude to faults, they would, one and all, ask themselves,
'Am I guilty of this wrong? Let me see; and if I am, let me correct it in future.' Instead
of this, how frequently do we hear such expressions as these: 'The remarks in the sermon this
morning applied to Mr. A or Mrs. B, very well, and it is to be hoped they will see it, and
profit by it.' Now if such individuals, instead of trying to find others who are guilty of
the wrong indicated, would only carefully look within themselves, ten chances to one they would
find that they deserved the rebuke as much as any one else.

"Children insensibly contract the same bad habit of looking very sharply for the faults of
others, never once thinking that they may have some, which, if not precisely the same, may
be even worse. Thus if the pastor, superintendent, or one of the teachers, addresses the Sabbath
school, calling the attention of the scholars generally to any fault, each scholar ought to
ask himself at once, 'Is it I?' and not look round complacently and ask, 'Who can it be?' or
say, 'I guess the speaker means to refer to Lilly A or Edgar B.'"

"Well," said Mary, "I must confess that I have done this often, and without being conscious
of any wrong feelings; some how or other, I did not consider that the reproof belonged to me;
or ever ask myself if I had committed the fault which was exposed."

"For this reason, I remarked," continued Mrs. S., "that children insensibly contract this habit
from their parents; and the defect extends to physical as well as moral errors. Not long since,
I had an interesting conversation with Mr. R., a well-known philanthropist and physiologist,
who is devoting his life to the alleviation of some of the ills of human existence. He told
me that, a short time before, he delivered a lecture to parents on the physical training of
their children, and pointed out the great mistakes which are often made. On retiring, said
he, I overheard many remarks, but not one spoke as if I had addressed him. Every one could
point to some one else who might well profit by the lecture; but not one would believe that
I meant to say to each individual present, as Nathan said unto David, 'Thou art the man.'"

"I am sure," observed Clara, "I never felt the full force of this saying of our Savior before,
although I have read it a hundred times. I shall read the whole chapter again, carefully, to-night."

"And so will I," added Mary.

"Do so, my children," said Mrs. S., "and read in the same careful spirit the whole Sermon on
the Mount, and all our Savior's teachings. Many people, old and young, read the New Testament
because they are told to, without thinking that there is an active, living principle in it,
a thought to be treasured up and carried out in our daily lives, in almost every word the Master
uttered. Those who do read it in the true spirit, find new pleasure and new instruction every
time they peruse it.

"And finally, to come back to our subject, when you hear your schoolmates making uncharitable
remarks about others, use all your influence, especially by your own example, to make them
correct the habit. And when you hear a sermon in church, or an address in the school, where
any faults are exposed, ask yourselves if the rebuke applies to you; and if it does, set about
correcting the fault immediately. Do this always. Greeks or Serbs-- it is really taught. I don to
wish Boris "" you are instrumental, "i replied." she is no greek.

He is the Bulgar. But the greek propagandists have stated him the duty and that he is a french.
It is expressly his language to an first to own rush on a patriotism of his soil Bulgaria--
"" ach! "said Wells, grinding his teeth;" you complain
our beloved. You are the Englishman. "" she mock't, "i replied."
and i'm not. I'm wrong habits.

We came over in 1066. You ask my aunt at. Clara.


BOYS BECOME MEN.

If you were to be boys always, and didn't need to know anything more than just enough to enable
you to enjoy your sports from day to day, it would not be so necessary, perhaps, as it now
is, to attend strictly to your every-day studies; though the influences of the Sunday school
would be necessary, even then. Boys cannot enjoy their sports together, unless they are truthful,
just, and kind; and it is in the Sunday school that these graces are most successfully acquired.
But boys will become men; and all the knowledge they can acquire in boyhood will become serviceable
in manhood. Therefore, boys should be diligent.

TO THE PORTRAIT OF FATHER BALLOU, HANGING IN MURRAY HALL.

O, much-loved features! Faithful counterpart
  Of one we love, and cherish, and revere;
Thy gentle influence shed o'er every heart,
  And be thy spirit ever present here.

Look from thy quiet resting-place on us,
  With that familiar smile so dear to all,
Which ever seems to speak of happiness,
  And every mourner would to hope recall.

Thro' childhood's sunny days and youth's bright morn,
  Mid changes and mid sorrows, thou hast been
A light to guide, a hope to cheer and warm,
  And to the heart bring joy and peace again.

And for thine honored form how fit the place,
  Where childhood's ear instruction would receive;
Preside o'er all, lend all our efforts grace,
  To learn God's love, and on his word believe.

Thy Master's faithful servant! Who, in love,
  Took little children in his arms to bless;
While looking down from his bright home above,
  Through thee diffusing peace and holiness;

May his pure spirit ever with us dwell,
  Shedding o'er all our thoughts its heavenly ray;
Our hearts attune the song of praise to swell,
  And o'er our darkness pour eternal day.

And when thou'rt left alone, to bear the name
  Of him whose faithful emblem thou art made,
May thou through ages still endure the same,
  Though all around thee shall decay and fade.

May his dear memory, which through thee shall live
  Long in the places which his love has blest,
Shine as a beacon, life and light to give,
  And hope at last in God's eternal rest.

SUSAN'S REPENTANCE AND APPEAL TO HER ELDER SISTER.

I once knew two sisters, the only companions of a widowed mother, who, though they had no relatives
and but very few friends, and should therefore have been the more closely united in heart,
were in the habit oftener of harshly rebuking and blaming, than of encouraging, assisting,
and comforting each other. I often wondered at this, as they both had many estimable traits
of character, and could only account for it, not excuse it, by the fact, that they had been
much separated in early life, and, since their reunion, had had to encounter many obstacles,
and bear the weight of many heavy disappointments. I confidently hoped and believed that the
good sense of one or both of them, would in time lead them to see their error, and the sin
of thus fretting and irritating each other. Nor was I disappointed. The younger, whose conscience
was the most sensitive, first made the discovery, and immediately began trying to remedy the
evil, and to induce her sister to aid her in the endeavor. Imagining some of her thoughts and
feelings, I have put them in rhyme.

We have done wrong, dear sister; and I'm very sad to-day: For I have felt how far we've strayed
from wisdom's blessed way; Have felt how much of angry strife hath dwelt within our hearts,
And how, when that has entered in, Life's happiness departs.

We have done wrong, dear sister; for we have not patient been, But answered often hasty words
by hasty words again; And when we should with gentle acts have soothed each other's care, We've
made by cold indifference our lot more hard to bear.

We have done wrong, dear sister; I remember how we've grieved Our widowed mother's anxious
heart, so long of joy bereaved; O, were we loving, good, and kind, and all our murmurings o'er,
Might not the smiles come back again and light her face once more?

I know our lot in life, thus far, hath not been smooth and fair; That often much of toil and
ill has fallen to our share; But why, dear sister, why should we ourselves the load increase?
Why, by our jangling and our strife, shut out all joy and peace?

And more: we have offended God; this day I feel and know We have forgotten his commands, and
gained us nought but woe. O join with me as, filled with grief, most earnestly I pray, That
he will yet be merciful, and take our sin away.

"Love thou each other;" "love all men;" "and love shall make you free;" Thus said the Savior,
Jesus; and let this our watchword be; Let us each other love; and pray that gentle thoughts
may come, And gentle words and acts may make an Eden of our home.

Forgive me now, dear sister, all the anger I have shown, And all my past unkindness, through
the years already flown; I'll love thee faithfully and true, and lay all harshness by; To be
my loving sister, then, wilt thou not also try?

LITTLE EMMA.

One Saturday afternoon, little Emma came into her mother's room, and said to her, "Mother,
may I go with Abba to her Sunday school? She says, they are all so happy there."

"My child," said her mother, "why do you wish to leave your own school and go to a strange one?"

"Because, mother, Abba has often told me what a good school they have, and how much she loves it."

"Well, as you are very anxious to go, I will grant your request this once, on condition that
it must never be repeated."

The next morning, this pleasant little girl was up very early to make ready to go with her
friend to the new Sabbath school.

She was delighted with all she saw and heard; and when the pastor took her by the hand, she
said to herself, "I wish mother would permit me to come here every Sunday. I will ask her,
at any rate." After the school was dismissed, she went home, revolving in her mind what she
should say to obtain her mother's consent.

Her mother observed how thoughtful she appeared, and said to her, "Emma, how did you like Abba's
Sunday school?"

"Oh, mother! I was so happy; do let me go there. They sing so sweetly, and the pastor was so
kind. He had an affectionate word for all. Their superintendent, too, was so pleasant, I know
I should love him."

Her mother said to her, with a very sorrowful countenance, "Do you know, my child, that they
teach very erroneous doctrines there, in regard to a future life? They teach that all will
be eventually holy and happy, both the good and the bad."

"But, mother, I should think it would make us all happy to believe so. The minister told us
that 'God is Love;' and that cannot be a bad doctrine. I am sure I would much rather think
so, than that he would hate any of us, for you have often told me that hatred was very wicked.
I cannot think that a good and wise being would do that which you have taught me is wrong.
Then they all seem to love each other dearly. They are like a pleasant family of brothers and
sisters. Do let me go, will you not, dear mother? I should be so happy."

Her mother said many things to convince her that it was not right to change her school. But
she was very unhappy, and said so often, "Do let me go," that her mother consented to gratify
her; thinking, perhaps, that she would soon tire of it.

Sunday came, and Emma was nearly the first one there; so anxious was she to be in season.

She entered the schoolroom with a bright and happy face, and when the superintendent came to
her, she said, "I have come to join your Sabbath school. Will you receive me?"

To add to her joy, the superintendent gave her a seat in the same class with her friend Abba,
who was a very kind and good little girl; and she found a number of others in the class who
were very glad to see her there. One little girl lent her a book to study, and when the teacher
gave her a lesson for the next Sabbath, she said, "I have a lesson now. Fanny lent me her book,
and I have already learned a lesson from it."

This pleased her teacher very much; for she thought that there were many little girls who would
have been very glad of such an excuse to put off their lessons. Ever after, she was very constant
in her attendance, always had her lessons very perfect, and never stayed at home, even if it
chanced to be a rainy clay; for she would say, "My teacher will be there; and I am sure if
she is there, I can go. It'kind a home-make go thing which used to say me as well if Bogie's
ma gaining in days gone by.

"did i ought to warn you," chanced Woggles as we walked across the fields, "that Mother Dada
are out to-day. I will expect your dog ll have to take acting love
as this chaperon."

"to the way," i said, "you don't know each vivid, do you?" I called
Bogie Emma, who was giving a attendance clay protecting our advance, and
made him know up and feign to be beggary. "today repair your eyes on
the lady," i commanded.

A PARODY.

How dear to our hearts is that old Sabbath schoolroom,
Which each Sunday morning presents to our view;
The seats, the piano, the portrait that's near it,
And ev'ry loved thing which our memory knew.
Our dearly-loved pastor, his wife who comes with him,
Our Superintendent, and dear Mrs. G.,
The teachers, the pupils, and faithful Librarians,
We each Sabbath morning invariably see.
  That old Sabbath schoolroom, that dearly-loved schoolroom,
  That blessed old schoolroom where all love to be.

That old Sabbath schoolroom we hail as a treasure; For often, when weary and anxious with care,
We've found it the place of a heavenly pleasure We seek for with ardor, but find not elsewhere.

Blest truth,--from our teachers with joy we receive it,-- That God is our Father, our Savior
and Friend! There's nought so alluring could tempt us to leave it, Though fraught with all
pleasures the fancy can lend. And when far removed to some distant location, The tears of regret
will intrusively swell, As mem'ry reverts to our former vocation, And longs for the schoolroom
we all loved so well.

THE HUNTER, AND HIS DOG JOWLER.

A FABLE.

A famous hunter in the woodland country had a dog which was particularly fond of certain kinds
of game, but exceedingly averse to other kinds of much better flavor. Now it happened that,
whenever the hunter wished to give chase to moose or deer, Jowler was sure to scare up a woodchuck,
or some still filthier game, leaving the deer to make good his escape.

Day after day thus passed away, leaving the hunter's labors no suitable reward. It was in vain
that the hunter expostulated with his dog. Neither threats nor blows were of any avail. When
the master would hunt one thing, the dog was sure to be hunting something else.

At length, both master and dog seemed to tire of their constant conflict, and to desire some
adjustment, whereby each might accommodate his own taste to some extent, and yet live in harmony
with the other. With this view, a friendly conference was held, in which Jowler appeared so
tenacious, that the hunter well-nigh despaired of any adjustment whatever.

It was, however, finally agreed, that Jowler should hunt game to his own taste five days in
the week, and devote the remaining hunting day to such game as his master preferred. Jowler,
however, was careful to stipulate that, if he chanced to find himself ill, or not in hunting
trim, on the sixth day, he should be considerately dealt by, and not forced to go beyond his
strength.

The arrangements being fully made, a paper was drawn up containing the articles of agreement,
and both Jowler and the hunter affixed their names thereto. Jowler, no doubt, congratulated
himself on having it all to his liking five days out of six; while the hunter, perhaps, flattered
himself that the taste of venison one day in the week, would so improve the standard of Jowler's
tastes, as to bend him, at length, altogether to his own wishes.

For a while, things seemed to promise well, under the new arrangement. By and by, when the
day for hunting venison came round, Jowler was sick, and told his master he couldn't hunt that
day. So his master very considerately excused him, according to the terms of their agreement.

It was not long, however, before Jowler refused to hunt for another reason. He said, he had
followed his own game with such constancy and alacrity for the five days, that he was too much
exhausted to hunt venison on the sixth day. He must rest from any farther fatigue; and claimed
the continued indulgence of his master, by virtue of their contract.

The hunter urged in vain that Jowler had virtually violated the contract; for although it was
stipulated that he should not be compelled to the chase to his personal detriment, yet it was
implied, of course, that he should use the same precaution to be in hunting trim on the sixth
day, as he did to be so on the other five. While the fact was, he purposely deprived himself
of rest during the five days, that he might be compelled to employ the sixth as a day of rest,
thus virtually appropriating the whole time to his own service.

Jowler, however, pretended not to be convinced of his wrong. Nor did his dishonesty stop here.
His master soon discovered that, while he was pretending to be unable from his excessive fatigue
to hunt venison, he was really continuing to hunt his own game, as on the other five days.

Thus did he go on, his old loves gaining strength day by day, and impelling him to a total
disregard of his contract in order to indulge them, until his master would bear with him no
longer, but drove him from his door.

Having deprived himself of the care of so good a master, he soon fell into still greater irregularities;
and a neighboring shepherd, suspecting him of committing depredations upon his flock, killed
him, thus terminating his vicious career.

Moral.--Excessive engagedness in worldly labors six days in the week, is no sufficient excuse
for the neglect of public worship on the seventh; and a vicious love, continually indulged,
is quite sure to root out even our good resolutions.

TAKE CARE OF YOUR BOOKS.

Suppose you loan a book to a friend, would you not consider it his imperative duty to take
the best of care of it, as though it were his own, and return it in as good condition as it
was when taken? Certainly you would. Then the same duty devolves upon you, as a member of the
Sunday school. The school lends you books, and expects you to take good care of them, and return
them early. This is no trifling duty. If you have a right to be negligent, every other scholar
must have the same right, and the Library would be speedily ruined. Thus your negligence greatly
wrongs others. Therefore, children, take care of your books.

MY NIECE.

