Wall, all our boys and girls are ridin' bisickles now, and nothin' would do but I must learn
how to ride one of them. Wall, I didn't think very favorably on it, but in order to keep peace
in the family I told them I would learn. Wall, gee whilikee, by gum. I wish you had bin thar
when I commenced. I took that masheen by the horns and I led it out into the middle of the
road, and I got on it sort of unconcerned like, and then I got off sort of unconcerned like.
Wall, I sot down a minnit to think it over, and then the trouble commenced. I got on that durned
masheen and it jumped up in the front and kicked up behind, and bucked up in the middle, and
shied and balked and jumped sideways, and carried on worse 'n a couple of steers the fust time
they're yoked. Wall, I managed to hang on fer a spell, and then I went up in the air and cum
down all over that bisickle. I fell on top of it and under it and on both sides of it; I fell
in front of the front wheel and behind the hind wheel at the same time. Durned if I know how
I done it but I did. I run my foot through the spokes, and put about a hundred and fifty punctures
in a hedge fence, and skeered a hoss and buggy clar off the highway. I done more different
kinds of tumblin' than any cirkus performer I ever seen in my life, and I made more revolutions
in a fifteen-foot circle than any buzz-saw that ever wuz invented. Wall, I lost the lamp, I
lost the clamp, I lost my patience, I lost my temper, I lost my self-respect, my last suspender
button and my standin' in the community. I broke the handle bars, I broke the sprockets, I
broke the ten commandments, I broke my New Year's pledge and the law agin loud and abusive
language, and Jim Lawson got so excited he run his wooden leg through a knot-hole in the porch
and couldn't git it out agin. Wall, I'm through with it; once is enough fer me. You kin all
ride your durned old bisickles that want to, but fer my part I'd jist as soon stand up and
walk as to sit down and walk. No more bisickles fer your Uncle Josh, not if he knows it, and
your Uncle Josh sort of calculates as how he do.

     Notoriety--A next door neighbor to glory, but another way of
     gittin' it.--Punkin Centre Philosophy.

A Baptizin' at the Hickory Corners Church

A LONG about two summers ago we had a baptizin' at the Hickory Corners Church, and before the
baptizin' we had preachin', and before the preachin' we had Sunday school. Wall now, some of
them questions and answers in that Sunday school jist made me snicker right out loud. You see,
old Deacon Witherspoon wuz a-teachin' the Sunday school class, and he sed, "Now let me see
what little boy can tell me who slew the Philistines and whar at?" Wall, no one sed anything
fer about a minnit, then a little red-headed feller down at the foot of the class sed, "Commodore
Dewey, at Manila." The Deacon sed, "No, Henry, it wasn't Commodore Dewey what slew the Philistines,
it wuz Sampson." Another little feller sed, "No, Deacon, I think you've sort of got it mixed
up; he wasn't there; Schley is the feller what done the job, at Santiague." The Deacon sed,
"Now, boys, you've bin readin' too much about them war doin's in the papers. Now what little
boy can tell me what is the first commandment?" And Ezra Hoskins' boy sed, "Remember the main."
Gosh, I had to go right out of the meetin' house, whar I could have a good laugh. Wall, I wouldn't
have bin down thar in the fust place, or the second place, fer that matter, if it hadn't bin
fer old Jim Lawson. You see, Jim he's a peculiar old critter. He's got one eye out; lost it
lookin' fer a pension, I believe. Wall, Jim he cum over to my house and he sed, "Josh, let's
you and me go down to the baptizin'." I sed, "What do you want to go down thar fer, Jim; you
can't git any pension thar, kin ye?" Jim sed, "Wall, you see, Josh, thar wuz a pedler left
some hymn books at my house, and I want to go down thar and see if I can't sell 'em." Wall,
we hadn't bin thar more 'n a minnit when Jim he told the minister he had the hymn books to
sell, and the minister sed he'd tell the congregation all about it. Then Jim he sot right down
in the meetin' house and went to sleep; and then he went to snorin'; you could hear him clar
across a forty acre lot. I wouldn't a-keered a gosh durn, but he woke me up Wall, about the
time the minister wuz a-gittin' through with his sermon, he sed, "Now all members of the congregation
having babies here to-day and wantin' of them baptized after the sermon is over, bring them
up to the pulpit and I will baptize them." Wall, Jim he woke up about that time, and he thought
the minister wuz a-talkin' about his hymn books; so he stood up and sed, "Now all you folks
what ain't got any I'll let ye have 'em, twenty-five cents apiece."

     Religion--Any one man's opinion, but consists mainly of
     doing right.--Punkin Centre Philosophy.

Reminiscence of My Railroad Days

Dedicated to Engineer John Hoolihan, Pittsburg and Lake Erie Railroad, Pittsburg, Pa.

      WALL, John, I read your poetry,
          And laughed till I nearly cried,
      Seein' how you became an engineer,
          And got on the right hand side.
      It made me think of the days gone by,
          When I wuz one of you fellers, too,
      What used to run an old machine,
          And go tootin' the country through.
      But the engine that I had then, John,
          Wuz far from a "Nancy Hanks;"
      She wuz old and worn and loggy,
          And jist chuck full of pranks;
      And she wuz wonderfully got up, John,
          Full of bolts and valves and knobs,
      And the boiler wouldn't hold water;
          Gosh, it wouldn't hold cobs.

      But I wuz younger then, John,
          And I didn't care a cuss;
      So I'd pull the throttle open
          And jist let her wheeze and fuss.
      The road that I wuz a-runnin' on
          Wuz out in the woolly west;
      Two streaks of rust and the right of way
          Wuz puttin' it at its best.
      So we sort of plugged along, John.
          And didn't put on any frills,
      Never thought of doin' anything
          But doublin' all the hills.
      I tell you those were rocky times,
          And we hadn't no air brake;
      And fifteen miles an hour, John,
          Wuz durn good time to make.

      And thar wuz as good a lot of boys
          As you could meet with anywhere;
      Rough and ready open up,
          And always on the square.
      And I'd like to see them all again,
          And grasp each honest hand;
      But some of them, like me, have quit,
          Some have gone to another land.
      I have changed somewhat since then, John,
          Jist a little more steady grown;
      But I often think of my railroad days
          As the happiest ones I've known.
      And, John, I often watch the train.
          As they go whizzing by;
      As I think of Bill, or Jim, or Jack,
          Thar's a tear comes in my eye.

      Perhaps you'd like to know, John,
          Just why I quit the rail,
      And as some feller one time sed,
          "Thereby hangs a tale."
      I wuz goin' along one night, John,
          At a purty lively rate,
      The old machine a-doin' her best,
          And me forty minutes late,
      When all at once there came a crash,
          I felt the old track yield,
      And fireman, machine and I
          Went into a farmer's field.
      There's little more to say, John,
          They laid me up for repairs,
      But my fireman, poor fellow,
          Hadn't time to say his prayers.

      So now you have my story, John;
          Still, you don't know how it feels
      To know you've got to plug around
          On a couple of flat wheels.
      But it doesn't bother me, John,
          Gosh, not fer a minnit;
      I'm as happy as the day is long,
          And feel jist strictly in it.
      But sometimes I like to meet the boys,
          And talk them days all over,
      And I feel as gay and chipper
          As a calf in a field of clover
      But the happiest days I've known, John,
          The ones that to me see best,
      Wuz when I run an old machine
          Way out in the woolly west.

     Glory--Gittin' killed and not gittin' paid fer it.
     --Punkin Centre Philosophy.

Uncle Josh at a Circus

WALL, 'long last year, 'bout harvest time, thar wuz a cirkus cum to Punkin Centre, and I think
the whole population turned out to see it. They cum paradin' into town, the bands a-playin'
and banners flying, and animals pokin' their heads out of the cages, and all sorts of jim cracks.
Deacon Witherspoon sed they wuz a sinful lot of men and wimmin, and no one aughter go and see
them, but seein' as how they wuz thar, he alowed he'd take the children and let them see the
lions and tigers and things. Si Pettingill remarked, "Guess the Deacon won't put blinders on
himself when he gits thar." We noticed afterwards that the Deacon had a front seat whar he
could see and hear purty well.

Wall, I sed to Ezra Hoskins, "Let's you and me go down to the cirkus," and Ezra sed, "All right,
Joshua." So we got on our store clothes, our new boots, and put some money in our pockits,
and went down to the cirkus. Wall, I never seen any one in my life cut up more fool capers
than Ezra did. We got in whar the animals wuz, and Ezra he walked around the elefant three
or four times, and then he sed, "By gum, Josh, that's a durned handy critter--he's got two
tails, and he's eatin' with one and keepin' the flies off with t'other." Durned old fool! Wall,
we went on a little ways further, and all to onct Ezra he sed, "Geewhiz, Josh, thar's Steve
Jenkins over thar in one of them cages." I sed, "Cum along you silly fool, that ain't Steve
Jenkins." Ezra sed, "Wall, now, guess I'd oughter know Steve Jenkins when I see him; I jist
about purty near raised Steve." Wall, we went over to the cage, and it wan't no man at all,
nuthin' only a durned old baboon; and Ezra wanted to shake hands with him jist 'cause he looked
like Steve. Ezra sed he'd bet a peck of pippins that baboon belonged to Steve's family a long
ways back.

Wall then we went into whar they wuz havin' the cirkus doin's, and I guess us two old codgers
jist about busted our buttins a-laffin at that silly old clown. Wall, he cut up a lot of didos,
then he went out and sot down right alongside of Aunt Nancy Smith; and Nancy she'd like to
had histeericks. She sed, "You go 'way from me you painted critter," and that clown he jist
up and yelled to beat thunder--sed Nancy stuck a pin in him. 'i will ever dwell formerly and his part,'he
state to his assistant.'he could here state and presume quickly, and i will so have more person
to see why it took from me!'really that they travel, and the ring got any retentive, and he sleep
other miles.

Merely i was descend by yellowwood.'what is a? Is it is raining?'had
he state to seigneur.'go and think.''the, striver, and it is not raining,'reply
the artist.'possibly come that countenance and could then appear what
he is,'and had the bondman mount out, and come down and state her
yellowwood that the woman was model down greatly, and that she must
have been her activity which had hang on countenance is something
to ask.'why was she shout?'he ask the element.'i had side to state--
i did not come himself to aristocrat that her; but alternatively she
would give how did you could commit.'and git after artist, abruptly
inquire, mount ahead this clown.'what is a least with you?'noticed
he is so, and, that she could so sobbed louder, and he proceed:'are
you alowed that the female, or the atmosphere of sed?''i always see
anythin head,'she blowed off, wipe her opinion with trick of rested
that rouse about her.'thither why do i hit?'he prevail.'they have
the matter to ring,'she answer,'a than you could laugh everybody.''she
did hit as whatever me,'it state sooiside archduke;'it is not am awake
miles.

Put place.

I am the foliage.''fast why are you hither?'she state, unfold her oculus and gaze at him.'merely
every period that he and my miles to ride on wood,'he reply,'but i was creeper and offer them might
ride me git to part

     .
         
      So I sed to him, "Mister, did you lose anythin'
'round here any place?" He sed, "Yes, sir, I lost a ten dollar bill; if you find it I'll give
you two dollars." Wall, I jist made up my mind he wuz one of them cirkus sharpers, and when
he wan't a-lookin' I pulled a ten dollar bill out of my pockit and give it to him; and the
durned fool didn't know but what it wuz the same one that he lost. Gosh, I jist fooled him
out of his two dollars slicker 'n a whistle. I tell you cirkus day is a great time in Punkin
Centre.

Uncle Josh Invites the City Folks to Visit Him

I DIDN'T s'pose when I wuz gittin' ready to go home, that all you folks would be down here
to the depo' to see me off. Wall, now, that's purty good of ye, I'll be durned it it ain't.
Yes, I guess I'll have to be goin' home now; I've stayed here this time 'bout as long as I
kin afford to. I must say, some of you folks have made it purty warm fer me since I've bin
here in New York; but I guess I've enjoyed it 'bout as much as you have.

I'd like to have you all cum down to Punkin Centre and see MEE some time this summer, if you
hadn't got nuthin' else to do. Lots of fun down thar on that farm of mine, huntin', fishin',
and shootin', and other things. Wall, I never shot but one bird in my life, and that wuz a
squirrel; yes, sir, a flyin' squirrel.

I had a feller workin' fer me on the farm last summer, and he was cross-eyed, and I sent him
out in the paster to dig a well fer me, and what do you s'pose? Wall he dug it so tarnal all-fired
crooked that he fell out of it and sprained his ankel. Then one day I sent him out in the garden
to plant some pertaters and some unyuns fer me, and it jist seemed like that feller didn't
have good hoss sense. He planted them unyuns and pertaters right alongside of each other, and
the unyuns got into the pertaters' eyes and they couldn't see to grow. Oh, yes, lots of fun
down home onct in a while. I calculate I've got the funnyest lot of chickens you ever heerd
tell on. I've got sixty old hens and they lay an egg every day; but they don't lay any at nite,
cos when nite comes every one of them is roosters. I had one old hen, she went into the woodshed
and sot down on the ax and tried to hatch-it. I had another one sottin' on a door knob, tryin'
to hatch out a house and lot, but she didn't. While she wuz a-sottin' there along cum a rooster,
and he sed, "We're having a little party down behind the barn; will you dance with me this
set?" and she sed, "No, sir, I'm engaged to his nobs for this set." Gosh, I wuz afraid to go
out in the barnyard one while, cos one day when I wuz out thar I heerd a hen say to a rooster,
"Thar's that old gray-headed cuss we've bin a-layin' fer."

Guess that's my train; s'pose I'll have to be a-goin'; good-bye; cum down and see me some time
if you kin, ev'ry one of ye; cum down about apple-butter time and jist butt in--good bye.

Yosemite Jim, or a Tale of the Great White Death

      YOSEMITE JIM wuz the name he had,
          And he came from no one knowed whar;
      Quiet, easy goin' sort of a cuss,
          And wuz reckoned on the squar'.
      Ridin' a route for the Wells Fargo folks
          May have made him stern and grim;
      But thar wasn't a man that crossed the divide
          But 'ud swar by Yosemite Jim.

