Never battle cost fewer soldiers than that of Turin; never was retreat more undisturbed than
ours; yet never were results more frightful or more rapid.  Ramillies, with a light loss, cost
the Spanish Low Countries and part of ours: Turin cost all Italy by the ambition of La Feuillade,
the incapacity of Marsin, the avarice, the trickery, the disobedience of the general officers
opposed to M, d'Orleans.  So complete was the rout of our army, that it was found impossible
to restore it sufficiently to send it back to Italy, not at least before the following spring.
M. d'Orleans returned therefore to Versailles, on Monday, the 8th of November, and was well
received by the King.  La Feuillade arrived on Monday, the 13th of December, having remained
several days at Paris without daring to go to Versailles.  He was taken to the King by Chamillart.
As soon as the King saw them enter he rose, went to the door, and without giving them time
to utter a word, said to La Feuillade, "Monsieur, we are both very unfortunate!" and instantly
turned his back upon him.  La Feuillade, on the threshold of the door that he had not had time
to cross, left the place immediately, without having dared to say a single word.  The King
always afterwards turned his eye from La Feuillade, and would never speak to him.  Such was
the fall of this Phaeton.  He saw that he had no more hope, and retired from the army; although
there was no baseness that he did not afterwards employ to return to command.  I think there
never was a more wrong-headed man or a man more radically dishonest, even to the marrow of
his bones.  As for Marsin, he died soon after his capture, from the effect of his wounds.

CHAPTER XXXVI

Such was our military history of the year 1706--history of losses and dishonour.  It may be
imagined in what condition was the exchequer with so many demands upon its treasures.  For
the last two or three years the King had been obliged, on account of the expenses of the war,
and the losses we had sustained, to cut down the presents that he made at the commencement
of the year.  Thirty-five thousand louis in gold was the sum he ordinarily spent in this manner.
This year, 1707, he diminished it by ten thousand Louis.  It was upon Madame de Montespan that
the blow fell. Since she had quitted the Court the King gave her twelve thousand Louis of gold
each year.  This year he sent word to her that he could only give her eight.  Madame de Montespan
testified not the least surprise.  She replied, that she was only sorry for the poor, to whom
indeed she gave with profusion.  A short time after the King had made this reduction, that
is, on the 8th of January, Madame la Duchesse de Bourgogne gave birth to a son.  The joy was
great, but the King prohibited all those expenses which had been made at the birth of the first-born
of Madame de Bourgogne, and which had amounted to a large sum.  The want of money indeed made
itself felt so much at this time, that the King was obliged to seek for resources as a private
person might have done.  A mining speculator, named Rodes, having pretended that he had discovered
many veins of gold in the Pyrenees, assistance was given him in order that he might bring these
treasures to light.

He declared that with eighteen hundred workmen he would furnish a million (francs' worth of
gold) each week.  Fifty-two millions a-year would have been a fine increase of revenue.  However,
after waiting some little time, no gold was forthcoming, and the money that had been spent
to assist this enterprise was found to be pure loss.

The difficulty of finding money to carry on the affairs of the nation continued to grow so
irksome that Chamillart, who had both the finance and the war departments under his control,
was unable to stand against the increased trouble and vexation which this state of things brought
him.  More than once he had represented that this double work was too much for him.  But the
King had in former times expressed so much annoyance from the troubles that arose between the
finance and war departments, that he would not separate them, after having once joined them
together.  At last, Chamillart could bear up against his heavy load no longer.  The vapours
seized him: he had attacks of giddiness in the head; his digestion was obstructed; he grew
thin as a lath.  He wrote again to the King, begging to be released from his duties, and frankly
stated that, in the state he was, if some relief was not afforded him, everything would go
wrong and perish.  He always left a large margin to his letters, and upon this the King generally
wrote his reply. Chamillart showed me this letter when it came back to him, and I saw upon
it with great surprise, in the handwriting of the King, this short note: "Well! let us perish
together."

The necessity for money had now become so great, that all sorts of means were adopted to obtain
it.  Amongst other things, a tax was established upon baptisms and marriages.  This tax was
extremely onerous and odious. The result of it was a strange confusion.  Poor people, and many
of humble means, baptised their children themselves, without carrying them to the church, and
were married at home by reciprocal consent and before witnesses, when they could find no priest
who would marry them without formality.  In consequence of this there were no longer any baptismal
extracts; no longer any certainty as to baptisms or births; and the children of the marriages
solemnised in the way I have stated above were illegitimate in the eyes of the law.  Researches
and rigours in respect to abuses so prejudicial were redoubled therefore; that is to say, they
were redoubled for the purpose of collecting the tax.

From public cries and murmurs the people in some places passed to sedition.  Matters went so
far at Cahors, that two battalions which were there had great difficulty in holding the town
against the armed peasants; and troops intended for Spain were obliged to be sent there. It
was found necessary to suspend the operation of the tax, but it was with great trouble that
the movement of Quercy was put down, and the peasants, who had armed and collected together,
induced to retire into their villages.  In Perigord they rose, pillaged the bureaux, and rendered
themselves masters of a little town and some castles, and forced some gentlemen to put themselves
at their head.  They declared publicly that they would pay the old taxes to King, curate, and
lord, but that they would pay no more, or hear a word of any other taxes or vexation. In the
end it was found necessary to drop this tax upon baptism and marriages, to the great regret
of the tax-gatherers, who, by all manner of vexations and rogueries, had enriched themselves
cruelly.

