"You see," she was saying, "it is a mistake for people who don't know each other very well
to marry, they would always be getting unpleasant surprises afterwards. Besides, it would be
so uncomfortable; it must be pretty bad to live at close quarters with some one you were--who
you didn't know very well, with whom you minded about things."

She had touched on something that did matter now, that might matter very much indeed; Rawson-Clew
realised it, and realised with a start of pain, that there might be a great gulf between him
and the good comrade after all. Her quick intuitions and perceptions had bridged it over and
led him to forget that he was a man of years and experience while she was a girl, a young,
shy, half-wild thing, veiled, and fearing to draw the veil for his experienced eyes.

"Tell me," he said, facing her and looking very grave and old, "is that how you feel about me?"

She fidgeted the tea-cloth with her foot, but being a Polkington, she was able to answer something.
"We belong to different lots of people," she said, examining the shape the thing had taken
on the floor; "I have got my life here, working in my garden and so on; and you have got yours
a long way off among greater things."

"You have not answered me," he said. "Tell me--am I the man you described?"

He turned her so that she could look at him, the thing she dared not do. His touch was light,
almost momentary, but it was too much, it thrilled through her wildly, irresistibly, and she
drew back fearing to do anything else.

"Don't!" she said, and her voice was sharp with the anger of pain.

He stepped back a pace. "Thank you," he said; "I am answered."

Captain Polkington had been dozing; there really was nothing else to do; but suddenly he was
aroused; there was a sound below; the motor moving at last. Yes, it was going, really going;
he went to the window and, taking care not to be seen, watched the car go down the sandy road.
After that he went down-stairs, and finding Johnny, who had finished his watering, persuaded
him to come for a stroll on the heath. They took a basket to bring home anything they might
find, and shouted news of their intention to Julia, who did not answer, then set out.

Now, in the present state of their development, motors are not things on which a man can always
rely. More especially is this the case when any one like Mr. Gillat has had anything to do
with them. The obliging Johnny, had arranged the inside of Rawson-Clew's car, covering up what
he thought might be hurt by the sun and blowing sand while it stood at the roadside, and taking
into the house when he went in to tea, anything that could be stolen if--as was quite out of
the question--one came that way with a mind to steal. Johnny had brought back most of the things
and replaced them before Rawson-Clew started, but not quite all. When the car had got a little
distance down the road it, with a perversity worthy of a reasonable being, developed a need
for the forgotten item. Rawson-Clew searched for it, could not find it, discovered that he
could not get on without it, and, thinking if not saying something not very complimentary about
Mr. Gillat, walked back to the cottage.

He supposed he would find Johnny in the garden, but he did not; he and the Captain were some
way out on the heath now, and, fortunately for the latter's peace, neither saw any one approach
the cottage. Rawson-Clew looked round the garden and finding no one decided, rather reluctantly,
that he must go to the house. He did not want to meet Julia again; he thought it rather unlikely
that she should still be in the kitchen, but there was a chance of it, so he approached with
a view to reconnoitering before presenting himself. The outer kitchen, which partook rather
of the nature of a wash-house, had a large unglazed window; when he drew near to this he heard
a noise from within. It sounded like some one sobbing, not quiet sobs, but slow deep spasmodic
ones like the last remains of a tempest of tears which has not spent itself but only been imperfectly
suppressed by sheer will. Rawson-Clew paused though possibly he had no business to do so.

"Oh, why," one wailed from within, "why is not father dead? If he were dead--if only he had
been dead!"

The unglazed window was large and rather high up, but Rawson-Clew was a man of fair height;
he was also usually considered an honourable one, but when he heard the voice, saying something
which was plainly only meant for the hearing of Omnipotence, he did not go away. He put his
hands on the flintwork of the window-sill and in a moment found himself in the twilight of
the unceiled kitchen.

Julia was crouching in a corner, her elbows on the old chopping-block, her face hidden on her
tightly-clenched hands, while she struggled angrily with the shaking sobs. For a moment she
struggled, then mastered herself somehow and looked up, perhaps because she meant to rise and
set about her work. She had been crying hard and tears do not improve the average face, certainly
they did not hers; and she had been trying hard to stop, cramming a screwed-up handkerchief
into her eyes and that did not improve matters either. One would have said her face could have
expressed nothing but the extremity of unbecoming woe, yet when she caught sight of Rawson-Clew
standing just under the window it changed extraordinarily and to anger.

"Go away!" she said; "go away! Do you hear?"

Rawson-Clew did not go away; he came nearer and Julia drew further into the corner, ensconsing
herself behind the chopping-block, and looking about as inviting of approach as a trapped rat.

"Julia," he said.

"Go away!" was her only answer.

"Why did you send me away?"

"Because I wanted you gone."

"Because Captain Polkington is not dead? Is that it?"

"You are a dishonourable eavesdropper! No, it wasn't that."

He sat down on the chopping-block barricading her corner so that she could not get out without
stepping over him. "Do you know it strikes me that you are not strictly honest either, at least
not strictly truthful just now."

Julia tugged at her skirt; the chopping-block was on the hem and he on it so that she could
not get free. "Will you please go," she said, with a catch in her breath. That is the worst
of these half-suppressed, unspent storms of tears, they have such a tendency to return and
break out again inconveniently.

"If it were not for Captain Polkington would you have sent me away?" he asked.

"Y--e--s," she answered, fighting with her tears. "Oh, go! Please, please go!"

She crumpled herself into a small miserable heap and he leaned over the block and drew her
into his arms.

For a moment she struggled, burrowing her head into his coat; there was a good deal of burrowing
and not much struggling. "No, you wouldn't," he said to her hair, "you would have married me."

"I might have said I would, but I shouldn't really have done it," she contended without looking
up. "I shouldn't when it came to the point. You had better let me go, I am spoiling your coat,
my face is all wet--and I don't know where my handkerchief is."

"Take mine, you will find it somewhere. Tell me, why would you not have married me when it
came to the point? Because your courage failed you?"

No answer; then, "I can't find that handkerchief."

"You have not tried. Are you afraid to try? Are you afraid of me? Is that why you would not
have married me--you would have been afraid to live at close quarters with me? Do you still
think you don't know me well enough?"

"I don't know your name."

The answer was ridiculous, but he knew how the ridiculous touched even tragedies for Julia.

"Hubert Farquhar Rawson-Clew," he said solemnly. "Now--"

But whatever was to have followed was prevented, for at that moment she looked up, and for
some reason, suddenly decided things had gone far enough, and so freed herself.

"I don't think it matters much what I should have done," she said, "or why, either. Father
is not dead; you ought to know better than to talk about such a thing; it is bad taste."

"Does that matter in the simple life? I thought when you retired you were going to dispense
with falsity and pretences, and say and do honestly what you honestly thought, when it did
not hurt other people's feelings."

"So I do," she answered; "that is why, when I thought I was alone just now, I asked out loud
how it was that father was still alive. Since then I have seen."

"What have you seen?"

"That it is to prevent me from making a great muddle of things. If he had been dead I dare
say I should have married you--I may as well confess it since you know--and we both should
have repented it ever afterwards. As it is, if I were free to-morrow, I would know better than
to do it."

He did not seem much troubled by the last statement. "We should have had to talk things over,"
he said.

"No, talking wouldn't have been any good," she answered; "there is a great distance between us."

He looked down at the space of red tiles that separated them. "That is rather remediable,"
he observed.

"Do you think I am not in earnest?" she said. "I am. There is a real barrier; besides all these
things I have mentioned there is something else that cuts me off. I have a debt to pay you
and until it is paid, if I were your own cousin, I could not stand on the same platform."

"A debt?" he repeated the word in surprise. His young cousin's loan to Captain Polkington had
slipped his memory, and even if it had not, its connection with the present would not have
occurred to him. Julia had been there, it is true, when the affair was talked of eighteen months
ago, and he himself had unofficially paid the money to end the matter, but he never dreamed
of connecting either her or himself with it now. Still less would he have dreamed that she
considered herself bound to pay him what her father had borrowed from another.

"What debt?" he asked, thinking the word must be hyperbolical, and meant to stand for something
quite different, though he could not imagine what.

"You have forgotten?" she said. "I thought you had; that only shows the distance more plainly;
you have one standard for yourself and another for me."

"Tell me what it is and let us see if we cannot compound it."

But she shook her head. "It can't be compounded," she said; "you will know when I pay it."

"And when will that be?"

"Ten years, twenty perhaps, I don't know. I thought once or twice before I could pay it--with
the blue daffodil once, and once when I first got the cottage and things--I thought, to be
sure, I could do it; it seemed a Heaven-sent way. But"--with a little glint of self-derision--"Heaven
knows better than to send those sort of easy ways to the Polkingtons; they are ill-conditioned
beasts who only behave when they are properly laden by fate, and not often then. Now you know
all about it, so won't you say good-bye and go?"

"I don't know about it and, what is more, I don't care. I am not going to let this unknown
trifle, this scruple--"

Just then there came the sound of voices outside; Mr. Gillat and Captain Polkington unwarily
coming back before the coast was clear.

"Yes," Johnny was saying, "he came to see me in town, you know--or rather you, but you were out--"

"He came to see me? He"--there was no mistaking the consternation in the Captain's tone, nor
his meaning either.

Julia and Rawson-Clew looked at one another; both had forgotten the Captain's existence for
a moment; now they were reminded, and though the reminder seemed incongruous it was perhaps
opportune.

"There is father," Julia said.

And he nodded. One cannot make love to a man's daughter almost in his presence, when the proviso
of his death is an essential to any satisfaction. Rawson-Clew went to the door. "Good-bye,"
he said, "for the present."

"Good-bye for always," she answered.

She spoke quite calmly, in much the same tone when, on the morning after the excursion to the
Dunes, she had bid him good-bye and tried to face the consequences alone. She had had so many
tumbles with fate that it seemed she knew how to take them now with an indifferent face. At
least, nearly always, not quite--the wood block still lay before the corner in which she had
crouched the marks on his coat where her tears had fallen were hardly dry. There was passion
and to spare behind the indifferent face, passion that for once at least had broken through
the self-mastery.

He held out his hand and she put hers into it. "Good-bye," he repeated; "good-bye for the present,
brave little comrade."

CHAPTER XIX

CAPTAIN POLKINGTON

Captain Polkington was watching a pan of jam. It was the middle of the day and warm; too warm
to be at work out of doors, as Johnny was, at least so the Captain thought. He also thought
it too warm to watch jam in the back kitchen and that occupation, though it was the cooler
of the two, had the further disadvantage of being beneath his dignity. The dignity was suffering
a good deal; was it right, he asked himself, that he, the man of the house, should have the
menial task of watching jam while Julia talked business with some one in the parlour? He did
not know what business this person had come on; he had seen him arrive a few minutes back,
had even heard his name--Mr. Alexander Cross--but that was all he knew about him; Julia had
taken him into the parlour and shut the door. Naturally her father felt it and was annoyed.

There was a door leading into the parlour from the front kitchen. It was fast closed but the
Captain, leaving the jam to attend to itself, went and looked at it. While he was standing
there he heard three words spoken on the other side by the visitor; they were--"your new daffodil."

So that was the business this man had come on! He was trying to buy Julia's ugly streaked flower.
The Captain's weak mouth set straight; he felt very strongly about the daffodil and his daughter's
refusal to sell it. He knew she might have done so; she had had a good many letters about it
since it was exhibited in London. She said little about the offers they contained, but he knew
she refused them all; he had taxed her with it and argued the question to no purpose. Now,
to-day, it seemed there was a man so anxious to buy the thing that he had actually come to
see her; and she, of course, would refuse again. The Captain sat down in the easy-chair; he
was overcome by the thought of Julia's contrary stupidity.

The chair was near the door, but he would have scouted the idea that he was listening; he was
a man of honour, and why should he wish to hear Julia refuse good money? Also it was impossible
to hear all that was said unless the speakers were close to the door. Apparently they must
have been near for no sooner had he sat down than he heard the man say, "Haven't I had the
pleasure of seeing you somewhere before, Miss Snooks? Your face seems familiar though I can't
exactly locate it."

"We met at Marbridge," Julia answered; "at a dance, a year and a half ago."

"At Marbridge? Oh, of course! Funny I shouldn't have remembered when I heard your name the
other day!"

Captain Polkington did not think it at all funny; he did not know who Mr. Cross might be, nobody
important he judged by his voice and manner--hostesses at Marbridge often had to import extra
nondescript men for their dances. But whoever he was, if he had been there once he might go
there again and carry with him the tale of Julia's doings and home and other things detrimental
to the Polkington pride. The Captain listened to hear one of the two in the other room refer
to the change of name which had prevented an earlier recognition. But neither did; she saw
no reason for it, and he had forgotten her original name if he ever knew it.

"I remember all about you now," he was saying; "you danced with me several times and asked
me about the Van Heigens' blue daffodil"--he paused as if a new idea had occurred to him. "You
were not in the line then, I suppose?" he asked.

"No, I knew nothing about flower growing or selling," she answered. "What you told me of the
value of the blue daffodil was a revelation to me."

He laughed a little. "But one you'll try to profit by," he said.

The Captain moved in his chair. He could have groaned aloud at the words, which represented
precisely what Julia would not do. Unfortunately his movement had much the same effect as his
groan would have done, some one on the other side of the door moved too, and in the opposite
direction. It must have been Julia, her father was sure of it; it was like her to do it; she
must have gone almost to the window; he could not make out what was said. The man was no doubt
trying to buy the bulb; a stray word here and there indicated that, but it was impossible to
hear what offer was made. It was equally impossible to hear what Julia said; her father only
caught the inflection of her voice, but he was sure she was refusing.

In disgust and anger he rose and, having pulled the jam to the side of the fire, went into
the garden. There he took the hoe and started irritably to work on a bed near the front door;
it was some relief to his feelings to scratch the ground since he could not scratch anything else.

In a little while Cross came out. "Well, if you won't, you won't," he was saying as Julia opened
the door. "I think you are making a mistake; in fact, if you weren't a lady I should say you
were acting rather like a fool; but, of course, you must please yourself. If you think better
of it you can always write to me. Just name the price, a reasonable price, that's all you need
do. We understand one another, and we can do business without any fuss--you have my address?"

He gave her a card as he spoke, although she assured him she should not want it; then he took
his leave.

She watched him go, tearing up the card when he had set off down the road. Captain Polkington
watched her.

"What did he want?" he asked, remembering that he was not supposed to know.

"The bulb," she answered.

"And you would not sell it?"

"No."

She had come from the doorstep now to pull up some weeds he had overlooked.

"I can't understand you, Julia," he said resting on his hoe, and speaking as much in sorrow
as in anger. "You seem to have so little sense of honour--women so seldom have--but I should
have thought that you would have had a lesson on the necessity, the obligation of paying debts.
When you come to think of the efforts we are making to pay those debts, how I am straining
every nerve, giving almost the whole of my income, doing without everything but the barest
necessaries, without some things that are necessaries in my state of health, what your mother
is doing, how she has given up her home, her husband, to live almost on charity in her son-in-law's
house. When you think of all that, I say, and of what your sisters have done, it does seem
strange that you should grudge this bulb, simply and solely because it was given you by some
people for whom you care nothing."

Julia agreed; she never saw the purpose of contradicting when conviction was out of the question.
"It does seem strange," she said; "but there is one comfort, the worst of the debts will be
cleared off by the end of the year. Uncle William knows that and has arranged for it in his
own mind; I really think it would be almost a pity to disturb the business plans of any one
so exact."

"Are we," the Captain returned scornfully, "to pinch and save to the end of the year? Am I
to do without the few comforts that might make life tolerable? Am I to work like a farm labourer
and live like one till then, because you choose to keep this bulb?"

Julia thought it was very probable things would go on as they were for some time, but she did
not say so; she only said, "I am sorry you find it so trying."

"Trying!" her father said, and stopped, as if he found the word and most others very inadequate.
"After all, it does not much matter," he remarked in a tone of gloomy resignation. "I shan't
be here, in any one's way, much longer; there is not the least chance that I shall live till
the end of the year, and when I am gone you can do what you please, what you must, with your
bulb. I own I should like to see you a little more comfortable and better off now. I hate to
have you doing servant's work and going shabby as you have to. I should like you to be decently
dressed, taking your proper place in society, but if you think it right to go on as you are
and to keep your bulb, of course I have nothing to say."

It was as well he had nothing, for Julia remembered the jam and went indoors, so he would have
had no one to say it to. She went into the back kitchen, thinking, but not of the jam. Once
again the temptation to sell the daffodil beset her; not to Cross, he was the last man to whom
she would have sold it, but to some collector who would care for it as the Van Heigens would.
She could easily find such a one with or without assistance from Cross; little harm would be
done to the Van Heigens by it; indeed Joost had expected her to do no less, and if she did
it she could pay--not the debts her father had mentioned--but the one he had not. She had thought
this all out before, seen the arguments on both sides, and arrived at her conclusion; but there
are some things that are not content with this treatment once, nor even twice, but demand it
a good many more times than that. So she thought it out again and came again to the old conclusion.
Joost had given her the bulb because he loved her; he had made no conditions because he believed
in her; he had even professed himself content that she should sell it because, in his humbleness
and generosity, he wanted only that she should get what ease she could. He was content to make
what was to him a great sacrifice for no other reason than that she should have a little more
money on mere caprice, the very nature of which he did not know. And so she could not do it,
that was the end of the whole matter. She could not take the gift of the man who loved her
to pay a debt to the man she loved.

She went to fetch jam pots, without calling herself to order for the last admission. It was
the one luxury she had at that time; daily and nightly she could admit to herself that she
loved him and he loved her. Not exactly passionately--they were not passionate people, she
told herself--but in an odd companionable equal sort of way which was the best in the world.
Nothing would ever come of it, even in the remote future when her father was dead and the debt
paid. By that time both of them would have grown old and set in their far separate ways, and
even if he ever heard that she was free he would have become wiser and changed his mind. So
there was no end to this thing, no awakening and disillusioning, none of the disappointment
and dreariness which is likely to attend the translating of a dream into work-a-day life. For
that reason it should have been possible to be content, even with the thing which stood between
her and realisation--sometimes it almost was, at least she persuaded herself so. At others
there were things harder to control; brief moments when crushing down all opposition and obliterating
other thoughts, came the memory of how she had crouched behind the chopping-block, how hidden
her tears in his coat. There was no reason or common-sense in that, no friendship or good-fellowship
in the clasp of his arms; it was the natural man and the natural woman, and absence could not
change it, nor time take it away; it had been, it might be again, it obeyed no law and answered
to no argument in the world. It was something which made her ashamed and afraid and yet glad
with a rare incommunical gladness that was pointed with pain.

Just then the jam boiled over, and she had to leave her pots to run and save it.

It is a great thing to have your mind under fair control; the Polkington training, wherein
the advisable and advantageous were compelled to rank high even in matter of emotion, is not
without use in bringing this about. But it is also a great thing, almost, perhaps, a more important
one for some people, to have plenty to do even if it is only making jam.

While Julia made her jam Captain Polkington hoed; at least he did for a little while, then
he gradually ceased and stood leaning upon his hoe, lost in unhappy thought. At last he moved,
and, gathering the withering weeds that lay beside the path, carried them to an old basket
which he had left beside the garden wall. With the weeds he picked up the torn fragments of
card which Julia had dropped beside the doorstep; he let them fall into the basket with the
other rubbish, but when he saw them gleaming white among the green they arrested his attention.
For a moment he looked at them, then he carefully picked them out; he had some thought of appealing
to Julia once more, or telling her that he had saved the man's address for her and she had
one last chance. He sat down on the wall; would it be any good to appeal? he asked himself
despondently. Would anything be any good? Was not everything a failure? No one regarded him;
Cross, the man whose card he held, had not even glanced in his direction when he went down
the path. A miserable bargain-driving tradesman had passed him and paid no more attention to
him than if he had been a gardener! Gillat, his own friend, did not regard him, thought nothing
of his comforts; he was all for Julia; thought of nothing and no one else. As for Julia herself,
she had not the slightest regard for him, no consideration, not even filial respect and obedience.

He looked gloomily before him for a little, then his eye fell on the white fragments he held,
the address of the man who was anxious to buy the daffodil which Julia in her obstinate folly
and selfish unreasonableness, would not sell. If it only were sold! He thought over all the
good things that could then be done; they were the same as those excellent reasons that he
had himself given a little while back. Some people might have said they were rather diverse
and not all mutually inclusive, but no such idea troubled him; he was sure all could easily
have been done if the daffodil were sold. He felt that he could have done it all quite well,
he did not stop to think how--if he had had the handling of the money he could have been a
benefactor to his whole family, especially Julia. It was hard that he should be prevented,
bitterly hard; it had so often happened in his life that he had been prevented from doing what
was good and useful by want of means and opportunity or the stupid obstinacy of other people.
He grew more and more depressed as he sat on the wall thinking of these things and wondering
if there were many men so useless, so unfortunate and misunderstood as he.

This depression lasted all that day and on into the next; indeed, for some time longer. It
lifted a little once in the course of a week, but not much, and soon settled down again, making
the Captain very miserable, disinclined for work, and decidedly bad company. Johnny thought
he was not well, but Julia fancied his trouble had something to do with annoyance and the daffodil.
He did not confide in either of them, maintaining a proud and gloomy silence and nursing his
grievance so that it grew. For days he cherished his sense of injury and wrong, until it became
large and took a good hold upon him. Then, all at once, for no reason that one can give, a
change came, and his mind, as if smitten by a gust of wind, began to veer about, to stir and
lighten. Why, he suddenly asked himself, was it that Julia would not sell the bulb? Because--the
answer was so absurdly simple he wondered it had not occurred to him before--because it was
the Van Heigens' present, and one cannot sell presents. He perfectly understood the scruple,
honoured it even; but he also saw quite plainly that, though it prevented her from selling
the daffodil, it did not stand in the way of its being sold. She could not, of course, authorise
the sale, any more than she could conduct it; but that was no reason why she should not be
very pleased to have it sold. Indeed, not only was this a probability, practically a certainty,
but more than likely she had had some such idea in her mind when she spoke of the matter to
her father--in all likelihood she was wondering now why he had not taken the hint.

Thus Captain Polkington reasoned, seeing light at last in the dimness of the depression which
had possessed him. Quite how much he really believed, or even if he were capable of real reasonable
belief at this stage of his career, it is not easy to say. It is possible he may have thought
he was right for the time being; his conscience was capable of remarkable gymnastic feats at
times. It is also possible that he, like some others of the human race, was not really able
to think at all. Anyhow the depression that weighed upon him lifted, and he remembered with
satisfaction that he had kept the torn fragments of Cross' card.

In the early part of the summer the hyacinths, tulips, and finer narcissus had been taken out
of the ground and put to dry. Julia hoped by this means to get more and better flowers from
them next year than is the case when they are left in the earth. They took some time to dry
and were not really ready till the summer was far advanced; but that did not matter to her,
however it may have inconvenienced her father; she was too busy to attend to them earlier.
By the middle of August they were ready, and she set to cleaning them in her spare time with
Johnny to help her. He was proud and pleased to do so, and did not in the least mind the extreme
irritation of the skin which befalls those who rub off the old loose husks. A place was prepared
for the bulbs in one of the sheds, the wide shelf cleared and partitions made in it by Mr.
Gillat, who also spent some time in writing labels for each of the divisions. Julia told him
this was unnecessary as she knew by the shape which were hyacinths and which tulips; still
he did it. Captain Polkington did not offer any assistance; he merely looked on with indifferent
interest; the matter did not seem to concern him.

But one day, towards the end of the month, but before the bulbs were all done, Julia went into
the town.

Captain Polkington saw her start; then he wandered to the shed where Johnny was at work. For
a little he stood watching, then he walked leisurely round the place looking at this and that.

"You will never be able to tell which is which of these things," he remarked at last.

Johnny looked at his somewhat conspicuous labels. "I've named them, don't you see 'Tulips?'"

"But you don't say what sort of tulips, which are red and which yellow. Nor what sort of narcissus,
which are daffodils and which the bunchy things."

"No," Mr. Gillat admitted; "no, they got mixed in the digging up; I forgot, and put them all
in the barrow together; that's how it happened."

"What? The whole lot?" the Captain inquired. "The streaked daffodil and all? What did Julia say?"

"She said it did not matter," Johnny told him; "they'll be all the more surprise to us when
they come up next year."

"She didn't mind, not even about the streaked daffodil?"

"Oh, that was not there," Mr. Gillat said, serenely unconscious that the fate of that bulb
was the only interest. "We have got that by itself."

He showed a little piece of shelf penned off from the rest and carefully covered with wire
netting for fear of rats. Three different shaped bulbs were there in a row.

"That's it," Johnny said, pointing to one of the three. "And that end one is the red tulip
with the black middle; it is supposed to be very good; and that other is the double blue hyacinth
from down by the gate; we are going to try it in a pot in the house next year and have it bloom
early."

Captain Polkington nodded, but did not show much interest. "Did you put these here, or did
she?" he asked.

"She did," Johnny answered. "She cleans them much better than I do, and we knew they were choice
ones, the best one of each kind, so she cleaned them; but I made the wire cover."

The Captain did not praise the ingenuity of this contrivance, which he did not admire at all,
and soon afterwards he sauntered back to the house. He was dozing in the easy-chair in the
front kitchen when Johnny came in to change his coat before setting out to meet Julia. He did
not seem to have moved much when Mr. Gillat came down-stairs ready to start.

"What?" he roused himself to say when Johnny announced his destination. "Oh, all right, you
need not have waked me to tell me that, it really is of no importance to me if you like to
walk in the blazing sun." He settled himself afresh in the chair, muttering something about
the heat, and Johnny went out, quietly closing the door after him.

It was an hour later when Julia and the faithful Johnny came back, the latter decidedly hot
although he was carrying one of the lightest of the parcels. Captain Polkington was still in
his chair; he woke up as they entered.

"Why," he said, "I must have dropped asleep!" He rose and went to take Julia's parcels. "Let
me put these away for you," he said solicitiously; "it is a great deal too hot for you to be
walking in the sun and carrying all these things."

"Thank you," Julia answered; "that's all right. Perhaps you would not mind getting the tea,
though; if you would do that I should be glad."

He did mind, but he set about it, and it was perhaps well for him that he did, as otherwise
he might have paid a suspicious number of fidgety attentions to Julia. As it was, doing the
menial work which he always considered beneath his dignity, while Johnny sat still and rested,
restored him to his usual manner.

But the Captain, though he was safely past the initial difficulty, did not find the working
out of his scheme altogether easy. He had the bulb, it is true, and he was safe from detection
for there was still under the wire cover a smooth yellow-brown narcissus root very like the
first one; but he had got to get rid of it. It was not very easy to get a letter to the post
here without remark from Mr. Gillat. That, in the circumstances, would be undesirable for it
was likely to arouse Julia's suspicions, and if they were roused she might think it her duty
to interfere--even though, of course, she did wish the bulb sold. Her father recognised that
and, determining not to give her the opportunity, got his letter written betimes and waited
for a chance to give it to the postman unobserved. In writing he had been faced by one very
great difficulty, he had not the least idea how much to ask. Cross had said "name a reasonable
price," and he must name one, or else it would appear that he were writing on his own behalf
not Julia's; but he did not know what was reasonable and he had no chance of finding out. A
new orchid, he had vaguely heard, was sometimes worth a hundred pounds; but it was impossible
any one should pay so much for a daffodil, an ordinary garden flower. Julia, whatever her motive,
would not have refused to sell it if it would have fetched so much; he could not conceive of
a Polkington, especially a poor one, turning her back on a hundred pounds. For hours he thought
about this and at last decided to ask twenty pounds. It seemed more to him now than it would
have done a year ago, by reason of the small sums he had handled lately; but it was a good
deal less than his golden dreams had painted the bulb to be worth in the time when it seemed
unattainable, and he was paying debts and providing for Julia out of the proceeds of the imaginary
sale. Still, he finally decided to ask it and wrote to that effect, and after some waiting
for the opportunity got the letter posted.

After that there followed an unpleasant time or suspense, made the more unpleasant by the fact
that he had to look out for the postman as he did not want the return letter to fall into Julia's
hands. At last, after a longer time than he expected, the reply came safely to hand. This was it--

     "SIR,

     "I am obliged to decline your offer of the streaked daffodil
     bulb, the price you name being absurd. To tell the plain
     truth, I would rather not do business with you in the
     matter; I prefer to deal with principals, else in these
     cases there is little guarantee of good faith.

                                         "Yours faithfully,

                                               "ALEXANDER CROSS."

     "P. S.--If you should fail to dispose of your bulb elsewhere
     and it would be a convenience to you, I will give you a five
     pound note for it, that is, if you can guarantee it genuine.
     It is not, under the circumstances, worth more to me.

                                                          "A. C."

So the Captain read and then re-read; anger, mortification and disappointment preventing him
from grasping the full meaning at first. Five pounds, only five pounds! No wonder Julia would
not sell her bulb; no wonder she preferred to keep a present that would only fetch five pounds!
What was such a trifle? The Captain glared at the letter as he asked himself the question proudly.
His pride was badly wounded. Cross had not set him right in his mistaken idea of the daffodil's
value too politely; at least he thought not. Why should he, this tradesman, say he preferred
to deal with principals? Did he imagine that a gentleman would attempt to sell him a spurious
bulb? The Captain's honour was not of that sort and he felt outraged. He felt outraged, too,
almost insulted, at being told that the price was absurd. The absurd thing was that he should
be expected to know anything about trade or trade prices. "The man can have no idea of my position,"
he thought.

But there he was not quite correct; it was precisely because he had a suspicion of the position
that Cross had written thus. No one with any right to it would offer the true bulb for twenty
pounds; either, so he argued, it was stolen or not genuine; which, he did not know, the odds
were about even. After making a few inquiries at Marbridge into Captain Polkington's history
he came to the conclusion that the chance in favour of the true bulb was worth five pounds
to him. Accordingly he offered it, indifferent as to the result, but rather anticipating its
acceptance.

It was accepted. The Captain was mortified and disappointed, but five pounds is five pounds.
It even seems a good deal more when your income is very small and the part of it which you
handle yourself so much smaller as to amount to nothing worth mentioning. It was September
now, and already the mornings and evenings were cold, foretaste of the winter which was coming,
which would hold the exposed land in its grip for months. Five pounds would buy things which
would make the winter more tolerable; small comforts and luxuries meant a great deal to real
poverty in cold weather and feeble health. Of course to Johnny and Julia too; they were all
going to benefit. Captain Polkington packed the bulb in a small box and posted it when he went
to Halgrave to have his hair cut.

By return he received a five pound note--a convenient handy form of money, easy to send, easy
to change. Halgrave might not perhaps be able to give change for it without inconvenience,
but Julia could get it changed next time she went into town. That would not be just yet, but
a note will keep; it would perhaps be better to keep it for the present. The Captain folded
it in his pocket-book and kept it.

CHAPTER XX

THE BENEFACTOR

It was not till October that Captain Polkington was able to change the five pound note. This
was really Julia's fault, she went so seldom into the town; he had once or twice suggested
her doing so when she said they wanted this or that, but she never took the hint, and the note
was still in his pocket-book. At last, however, the opportunity came.

A keeper's wife with whom Julia had got acquainted had promised her a pair of lop-eared rabbits
if she could come and fetch them. She was not very anxious to have them, but Mr. Gillat was;
he said they would be very profitable. Julia doubted this; but, since he wanted them, she said
they would have them, and accordingly, one morning, they started together with a basket for
the rabbits. They started directly after breakfast for they had to go a long way across the
heath and could not at the best be back before two o'clock. Captain Polkington watched them
go, standing at the cottage door until their figures were small on the great expanse of heather.
Then he went in and, sitting down, wrote a hasty note to Julia; it was to the effect that he
had been obliged to go into town, but would be back by dark or soon after. It read as quite
a casual communication, as if he were in the habit of going into town frequently and had much
business to transact. The Captain was rather satisfied with it; he felt he was doing the straightforward
thing in telling Julia, his whole proceedings were open and above board. When he came back
he should tell her all about the money, how it had been raised and how spent. She should have
had the spending of it herself if only she had gone to town when he suggested it; as it was,
he must do it; it was absurd to wait any longer; the weather was already cold; he must go,
and bring her some pleasant surprise when he came back.

Satisfied with these reflections and feeling already the glow of beneficence, he dressed himself
and set out for Halgrave. He had to walk to the village and there take the carrier's cart which
went into town twice a week; he reflected, while he waited for the vehicle, how fortunate it
was that Julia and Johnny had chosen to go for the rabbits to-day, one of the days when the
carrier went to town. There were a good many bundles going by the cart, and two other passengers
who were inclined to be too familiar until somewhat haughtily shown their proper place. The
Captain was a little annoyed by this; and annoyed, also, to find that the carrier was not in
the habit of starting on the return journey till rather late, later than the note would lead
Julia to expect her father. But as the carrier was not one to change his habits for anybody,
that could not be helped and Captain Polkington made the best of it. Julia was not likely to
be anxious about him, he was sure; and since he was going to tell her all about his doings,
it might as well be late as early. By this time he had quite got rid of any qualms--if he ever
had them--about the method of getting and the intention of spending the note. He had almost
forgotten that it had not always been his, and was quite sure that he was doing the right thing--for
others as well as himself--in the difficult circumstances which seemed to beset him more than
the common run of men. Cheered by these thoughts he endured the discomforts of the journey
with moderate patience; he almost felt that he was suffering them in a good cause, for the
sake of Johnny and Julia.

The town was large and the centre of a large district, not at all like the retired gentility
of Marbridge, very much bigger and busier. Captain Polkington, who had lived quietly so long,
felt rather lost and bewildered at first in the bustling intricate streets; there were so many
people, especially among the shops, they were always getting in his way. He only made one purchase
before lunch; he would have plenty of time in the afternoon, he thought, and would be better
able to decide what to buy when he had seen things and had a meal. The purchase made before
lunch was at the wine merchants, it was whisky.

He lunched at the best hotel; that and the whisky made a rather bigger hole in the five pound
note than one would have expected. Still, as he told himself the whisky really was a vital
matter with winter coming on, a necessity, not a luxury, for all of them--Johnny would be better
for a little--he used to like a glass in the old days; and Julia would certainly be the better
for it, working as she did in the cold. It was a medicine for them all, not himself alone.
The lunch was the only personal extravagance and really, seeing what he was doing for the others,
there was no need for him to grudge that to himself.

So he lunched and then the trouble began. He was not clear quite how it happened; at least,
owing to the confusion there always was in his mind between facts as they were, as he wished
them to be, and as they appeared in retrospect--he was never able to explain it thoroughly.
There were other men lunching at the same time; he still had the Polkington faculty for making
friends and acquaintances; he still, too, had the appearance and manner of a gentleman, if
of somewhat reduced circumstances. He apparently made acquaintances; exactly how many and what
sort is not certain, the account was very confused here. There was a whisky and soda in it,
two whiskies and sodas, or even three; a cigar, a game of billiards--perhaps there was more
than one game, or some other game besides billiards. At all events there must have been something
more, for the Captain afterwards declared he was ruined in less than an hour, fleeced, cheated
of his little all! It is quite possible that he was nothing of the kind, and that the acquaintances
were perfectly honest and honourable men. They would not know he could not afford to lose,
a true Polkington always set out to hide the reality of his poverty. And he was not likely
to win, he seldom did, no matter at what he played or with whom; he was constitutionally unlucky--or
incapable, which is a truer name for the same thing--it had always been so, even as far back
as the old times in India. That day he lost at something, that at least was clear; then there
was more whisky and soda and more losses, and perhaps more whisky again; and so on until late
in the afternoon, he found himself standing, miserable and bewildered, in the main street of
the town. Some one had brought him there, a good-natured young fellow who thought, not that
he had spent all he ought, but that he had drunk all he should.

"Not used to it, you know," he had said with good-humoured apology; "been rusticating out of
the way so long. Better come out and get a breath of air, it'll pull you together."

And he persuaded him out, walked some way down the street with him and then, seeing that he
seemed all right, left him and went to attend to his own business.

For a little the Captain stood where he was, the depression, begotten of whisky and his losses,
growing upon him in the old overwhelming way. No one took any notice of him; passers by jostled
against him, for the pavement was rather narrow, but no one paid any attention to him. The
bustle bewildered his weak head, and the noise and movement of the traffic in the roadway irritated
him unreasonably. A youth ran into him and he exploded angrily with sudden weak unrestrained
fury. Thereat the boy laughed, and, when he shouted and stamped his foot, ran away saying something
impudent. The Captain turned to run after him shaking his stick; but he was stiff and rheumatic
and weak on his legs, too, just now. It was no use to try and run. Of course it was no use,
nothing was any use now, he was a miserable failure, he could not even run after a boy; he
must bear every one's taunts; he could almost have wept in self-pity. Then he became aware
that several passers by were looking at him curiously, arrested by the noise he had made. Annoyed
and ashamed he turned his back on them and pretended to be examining the goods in a shop window
near.

It was a large draper's, rather a cheap one; the better shops were higher up the street. In
this one the things were all priced and labelled plainly; the Captain at first did not notice
this one way or the other; he simply looked in to cover his confusion. But after a little he
became aware of what he looked at, and it recalled to his mind the fact that he was going to
buy something for Julia. He did not quite know what, he had had large ideas at one time; they
had had to be diminished once because five pounds will not do as much as twenty; they had to
be diminished again because he had been fleeced of so much of the five pounds. A wave of anger
shook him as he thought of that, but he suppressed it; he felt that he must not give way, so
he looked steadily at the window. There were furs displayed there, muffs and collarettes of
skunk and other animals, even the humble rabbit artistically treated to meet the insatiable
female appetite for sable at all prices. The Captain decided on the best collarette displayed
and turned towards the shop door feeling a little better in the glow of benevolence that returned
to him as he thought of how much he was going to spend for Julia. Just as he was going in he
caught sight of a girl selling violets in the street. She was a good-looking impudent girl,
and catching his eye she pressed her wares on him glibly; he hesitated, smiled--here was one
who treated him as a man, who considered it worth while. He looked defiantly at the passers
by--he was a man, not an object for curiosity or kindly contempt. He returned the girl's glance
with an ogle and, stepping as jauntily as he could to the edge of the pavement, took a bunch
of flowers with some suitable pleasantry. Half-way through his remark he stopped dead; he had
felt in his pocket for a penny and found nothing. Quickly, feverishly, almost desperately,
he felt in the other pocket; there were three coins there; by the size he could tell that one
at least was a penny; he took it out and gave it to the girl; he had not the courage to put
down the flowers and go without them. Then he turned away. A narrow passage ran down between
the draper's and the next house; fewer people went that way and in the window there, common
and less expensive goods were displayed. The Captain went down the foot-way and examined the
two remaining coins. They were a shilling and a penny.

People passed and repassed along the main road; carts and carriages rumbled over the uneven
stones; no one heeded the shabby hopeless figure by the side window. They were lighting up
in the draper's though outside there was still daylight; the gas jets were considered to make
the place look more attractive. They shone warmly on the furs and silk scarves in the front
window, making them look rich and luxurious. Two girls stopped to look in; then, their means
being more suitable to the goods there, they came to examine the side window. They were two
servants out for the afternoon; they wore winter coats open over summer dresses and hats that
might be called autumnal, seeing that they were an ingenious blending of the best that was
left from the headgear of both seasons.

"I shall get one of them woolly neck things, I shall," one said; "they're quite as nice as
fur and not so dear."

The other could not agree. "Don't care about them myself," she said; "I must say I like a bit
of sable."

"Can't get it under two and eleven," her companion rejoined; "and those things are only a shilling
three. Look at that pink one there; it looks quite as good as feathers any day. I'm not so
gone on sable myself; you can't have it pink, and pink's my colour."

They moved on to another window; they, no more than the passers by, noticed the old man who
stood just at their elbow. When they had gone he looked drearily in where they had looked.
There were the woolly things they had spoken of, short woven strips of loopy wool, to be tied
about the neck by the two-inch ribbons that dangled from the ends. "Ostrich wool boas in all
colours, price, one shilling and three farthings," they were ticketed. He read the ticket mechanically.
He still held his two coins; he held them mechanically; had he thought about it he would scarcely
have troubled to do so, they were so cruelly, so mockingly inadequate. He read the ticket again;
it obtruded itself upon him as trivial things do at unexpected times. But now its meaning began
to be impressed upon his brain--"one shilling and three farthings"--that, then, was the interpretation
of the servant girl's "shilling three." He had a shilling and a penny--a shilling and three
farthings. He could buy one of those ostrich wool boas--he would buy it--that pink one for Julia.

The Halgrave carrier made it a rule to receive his passengers' fares at the beginning of the
expedition; if they were coming back as well as going with him they paid for the double journey
at the outset in the morning. Captain Polkington had so paid, and it was that fact, coupled
with the early arrival at the stables of his one purchase, which induced the carrier to wait
nearly half-an-hour for him. The cart was packed, everything was ready, and the good man and
the only other passenger he was taking back were growing impatient, when the Captain, carrying
a small crushed paper parcel, appeared. He had lost his way to the stables and had wandered
hopelessly in his efforts to find it. The carrier was rather short-tempered about it, and the
other passenger said something to the effect that "They didn't oughter let him out alone!"
The Captain payed no attention but climbed into the back of the cart and sat down near his
whisky. The other passenger got up beside the driver, and in a few minutes they were lumbering
down the crooked streets. Soon they were out of the town and jogging quietly along the quiet
lanes; the driver leaned forward to get a light from his passenger's pipe; his face for a moment
showed ruddy in the glow of the one lamp, then it sunk into gloom again. Captain Polkington
did not notice; he did not notice the voices in intermittent talk, or the fume of their tobacco
that hung on the moist air and mingled with the scent of the drooping violets in his coat.
He knew nothing and was aware of nothing except that he was the most miserable, the most unfortunate
of men. Throughout the whole interminable journey he dwelt on that one thing as he sat by his
whisky in the dark, clutching tightly the soft paper parcel and finding his only fragment of
comfort in it. He had after all bought something; poor, disappointed, fleeced as he was, he
had spent his last money in buying a present for his daughter.

CHAPTER XXI

THE GOING OF THE GOOD COMRADE

The cottage was very quiet. Although it was not late, both Captain Polkington and Johnny had
gone to bed, the one to suit himself, the other to oblige Julia; she was in the kitchen now,
as completely alone as she could wish. And certainly she did wish it; by the hard light in
her eyes and the grim look about her mouth it was clear she was in no mood for company. She
had got at the truth that evening, or most of it; the whole affair, with the exception of one
point only, was quite plain to her; not by her father's wish or intention, but plain none the
less. Subterfuge was an art the Polkingtons understood so well that it was exceedingly difficult
to deceive them; Julia was the most difficult of them all to deceive, and the Captain was least
clever at subterfuge; it was not wonderful, therefore, that she knew nearly all there was to
know. Her heart was bitter within her, but against herself as well as against her father--after
all he had but done what she had once thought to do. She had stayed her hand because the one
who owned the daffodil was a child to her. Her father had had no such reason for staying his;
the one who owned this daffodil was as cunning as he. He had done what he had, badly of course
he could not do otherwise--a foredained failure such as he--bungled it hopelessly; but the
idea was the same--a bad travesty of a bad idea, badly worked out. For a moment her mind glanced
aside from the main issue in disgust and contempt for the method. It was sin without genius,
a puerile theft without adequate return, a miserable fall, and for such a purpose! To expect
to find the streaked daffodil unguarded in an outhouse! To sell it for five pounds and think
to spend the money on creature comforts! It is hard to say which of the three was the worst.
The really good have little idea how such fool's knavery looks to the shadily clever; it brings
home to them the wrongness of wrong, disgusting them with it and with themselves, as no preaching
in the world can.

The moon had risen by this time; its first beams shone in at the unshuttered window. Julia
went to the door and, opening it, looked out. There was a little mist about and the moon, quite
a young one, was struggling through it, shining with a soft, diffused light that made the landscape
very unearthly.

It was wonderfully still out of doors, quiet and damp with belts of unexplained shadow here
and there, and a sense of illimitable space and silence. Julia sat down on the door steps and
smelt the good smell of the earth and felt the nearness of it. But it did not comfort her;
she was not in tune with the night; she had neither part nor lot with these things. "Thief,
and daughter of a thief;" the words kept coming to her--and he, the man whom she never named
to herself, had called her his good comrade! She bowed her face to her knees and sat motionless.

She had told him the truth about herself; she had not been ashamed; she would not have been
even if she had taken the daffodil. But her father! She was ashamed for him with a bitter shame;
ashamed of herself and him too, in thought and intention at least they were one, double-dealers.
"Two grubby little people," as she had seen them long ago when they first stood in company
with that man.

"But you don't know; you have not our temptations." She almost spoke aloud, unconsciously addressing
the dewy silence as her mind called the man plainly before her. "You have never wanted money
as I wanted it, or wanted things as father wanted them. Oh, you would despise the things he
wanted--so do I; they are miserable and mean and sordid; you couldn't want whisky and comfort
as he wanted them, but you can't think how he did! He would have justified it to himself too;
you wouldn't, couldn't do that, while we--we could justify the devil if we tried. It is not
right, any the more for that, I know it is not; it is dishonest and disgraceful, I know that
as well as you; but I know how it came about and you--you can never understand!" Her voice
sank away. That was the great difference between herself and this man; it did not lie in what
she did; that was a remedial matter--but rather in what she knew and felt. Things that did
not exist for him were not only possible but sometimes almost necessary to her and hers. The
gulf between them which had almost seemed bridged in the early summer was suddenly opened again
by the day's work; opened beyond all passage for her--thief, and daughter of a thief.

She sat on the doorstone looking out with unseeing eyes while the moon rose higher and the
light grew so that the belts of shadow melted and the misty land was all silver, a world of
dreams, very pure and still. But neither her dreams nor her thoughts were pure and still; they
were full of passion and pain, longing and regret and shame, and yet an underlying hopeless
desire that all could be known and understood.

At last she rose and went in. The pink woolly thing Captain Polkington had bought her lay on
the kitchen-table, half out of its paper wrappings, a silly, useless thing. As her eyes fell
on it they grew dim and hot while the colour crept up in her cheek. Her father had bought it
for her; he had thought to please her with the foolish thing; it was like a child's or a fool's
gift; she hated herself for hating it. But he had deceived himself into thinking he was generous
to make it with his illgotten gains; he had salved conscience with it--it was a liar's gift,
a self-deceiver's, a thief's. There was no kindness, no generosity in it, and she despised
him--and he was her father!

She picked up the thing, paper and all, and crammed it into the dying fire. Then suddenly she
burst into tears. The world was all wrong, justice was wrong and suffering was wrong and mankind
wrong, all was wrong and inexplicable and pitiful too.

For a minute she sobbed chokingly, then she forced back the tears with the angry impatience
of a hurt animal, and fetching a sheet of paper and pencil, sat down to write. He was her father
and he was a man with a warped idea of honour, one whose self-respect had been taken away;
it was too late to teach him, one could only safeguard him now. Opportunity did not make thieves
of such as her, but it did of such as him, and she had left the opportunity--or what he took
to be it--open. She would close it now for ever; she would be rid of the bulb, the cause of
so much trouble. So she wrote hurriedly, a mere scrawl, while the passion was still upon her,
and her eyes were still dim with tears--

"Joost, if you have ever cared for me, take back the daffodil; take it back and don't ask me why."

The next morning Julia posted a small parcel, and at dinner time told Johnny and her father
that she had sent the famous daffodil back to its native land.

Johnny looked up in mild surprise; he had been to the outhouse that morning to see if the bulbs
were keeping dry. "Why," he said, "it's in the shed!"

"No, it is not," Julia answered, "and it never was. The one you think it is one of the large
double pale ones; I told you at the time we put them away, but you have got mixed, I expect."

"Ah, yes, of course," Mr. Gillat said; "I remember now; of course, I remember."

The Captain swallowed something, but contrived to keep quiet, and only darted a glance at Johnny,
the muddler, whose information could never be depended on.

When the meal was over and Mr. Gillat in the back kitchen, Captain Polkington spoke to his
daughter.

"Julia," he said, moistening his dry lips, "that man Cross thought it was the streaked daffodil
that I, that--"

His voice tailed away, but Julia only said, "Well?"

"I pledged by word of honour that it was the true one."

Again Julia said, "Well?"

"What is to be done?" the Captain asked.

She showed no signs of grasping his meaning or at all events of helping him out. He burst out
irritably, "What on earth have you sold it for? Nothing would induce you to do so before when
I asked you to; now, all at once you have taken a freak and parted with it without any consideration
whatever. I never saw anything like women, so utterly irrational!"

"I have not sold it," Julia told him; "only sent it away."

"What for? It is perfectly absurd! I suppose you can get it back? You must get it back."

Julia asked "What for?" in her turn.

The Captain enlightened her. "There is Cross," he said; "I told him that was the daffodil,
and it is not. Something must be done; we can't cheat him; we must send him the daffodil, or
else refund the five pounds. We should have to do that--and we can't."

"No," Julia agreed grimly; "and we would not if we could."

"But what are you going to do?" her father asked.

"Nothing."

"Nothing! But I pledged my word! You don't understand, I am in honour bound."

Julia forbore to make and comment on her father's notion of honour; indeed, it struck her as
almost pathetic in its grotesqueness and certainly very characteristic of the Polkingtons.

"Cross paid five pounds for the streaked daffodil," the Captain went on to say, believing that
he was stating the case with incontrovertible plainness, "and if he does not have the true
bulb he must have the money back; otherwise he will, with justice, say he has been cheated,
for I guaranteed the thing."

"He paid five pounds for a speculation," Julia said; "your guarantee was nothing, and though
he may have asked for it, it was just a form and did not count one way or the other. He knew
there was a chance that you had come by the true bulb somehow and so had it to sell; he risked
five pounds on that--and lost it."

Captain Polkington looked bewildered. "He paid five pounds for the bulb," he persisted; "he
said it was worth no more to him."

"Very likely not, if he could get it for that," Julia said; "but if he could have been sure
of it, it would have been worth two hundred pounds."

"Two hundred!" Captain Polkington gasped, turning rather white.

Julia nodded. "With my guarantee," she said. "You had not got that; I suppose you let him see
it when you wrote first so he knew that, though you might have the real bulb, you were not
in a position to sell it well."

The Captain flushed as suddenly as he had paled. "You think he thought I had not come by it
honestly, that I had no right in my daughter's affairs?"

"I don't see it matters what he thought," Julia answered, taking up the dishes. "He risked
his money, and lost it, knowing very well what he did; he does not mind doing business in that
way; I don't admire it myself, but I guessed he would do it when I first made his acquaintance."

"You ----" the Captain said.

"I have nothing to do with it, and shall have nothing."

"But the money must be paid; it is a debt of honour; I must clear myself."

Julia shrugged her shoulders.

"You do not wish me cleared?" her father demanded haughtily.

"Paying the five pounds would not clear you," she said; "neither that nor anything else. No,
I am not going to pay it; I don't feel any obligation in the matter. If Mr. Cross goes in for
those sort of dealings he must put up with the consequence, and I am afraid you must, too."
And with that she went away.

This was the last reference that was made to the sale of the daffodil and the expedition to
town; after that the matter was left out of conversation and Julia behaved as if it had never
existed. But Captain Polkington was very unhappy; he could not get over the affair and his
own failure; he brooded over it in silence, feeling and resenting that he could not speak to
either Johnny or Julia, they being quite unable to understand his emotions. Once or twice he
raged weakly against Cross, who had given him five pounds when he had asked twenty for a thing
worth two hundred; who had doubted his word, who had behaved as if he were a common thief--who
would, doubtless, think him one. More often his indignation burnt up against Julia who would
do nothing to remedy this last catastrophe, and clear him and reinstate his honour in the eyes
of this man and himself. Most often of all his quarrel was with fate, and then his anger broke
down into self-pity as he thought of all the troubles that were crowding about his later years;
of his lost reputation, his lack of sympathy and comprehension; the failure of all his plans
and hopes, the poverty and feeble health that oppressed him. In these gloomy days he had one
ray of comfort only; it lay in the purchase he had made on that day that he went shopping.
That whisky was the solitary thing in the day's adventure about which Julia had not heard;
everything else she had been told, but somehow that had escaped. One reason of this, no doubt,
lay in the fact that Captain Polkington had not brought his purchase home with him that evening.
He had meant to; when the carrier set him and his property down just outside Halgrave, he had
fully meant to carry it to the cottage. But he found it so heavy and cumbersome in his weak
and dejected state that he had to give it up. So he found a suitable hiding-place in the deep
overgrown ditch beside the road, and, thrusting it as much out of sight as he could, left it
there and went home unburdened. He meant to tell Julia and Johnny about it, they of course
were to have shared, and one or both of them would go with him to fetch it home in the morning.
But he did not tell them; it did not seem suitable at first; they, each in a different way,
were too unsympathetic about the expedition to town; he determined to wait for a fitting opportunity.
The opportunity did not come; but in course of time the whisky was moved and gave comfort of
sorts during the autumn days to the Captain's drooping spirits, if it had a less beneficial
effect on his failing health.

In the meantime the daffodil, "The Good Comrade," had gone back to its native land, and with
it an appeal, written in English, badly written, scrawled almost--but not likely to be refused.
Joost read it through once, twice, more times than that; it said little, only, take back the
bulb and ask no questions, yet he felt he had been honoured by Julia's confidence. The very
style and haste of the letter seemed an honour to him; it showed him she had need and had turned
to him in it. Of course he would do as she asked; he would have done things far harder than
that. He folded the slip of paper and put it away where he kept some few treasures, and for
a time he put with it the bulb she had sent; and sometimes when he went to bed of a night--he
had no other free time--he took both out and looked at them.

But "The Good Comrade" did not remain locked away from the light of day. Joost was a sentimentalist,
it is true, and the bulb had come from Julia, winged by an appeal from her. But he was also
a bulb grower, and he was that before he was anything else and afterwards too, and the daffodil
was a marvel of nature, a novelty, a thing beyond words to a connoisseur. The lover asked that
the token should be kept hidden from the eyes of men; but the grower cried that the flower
should be given to the light of heaven and should grow and bloom according to Nature's plan.
For days the lover was uppermost and the old pain back. But in time the bitter-sweet madness
died down again and, in the atmosphere which was saturated with the beloved work, the old love,
the first and last and soundly abiding one, reasserted itself. The daffodil must bloom, the
little brown bulb must go back to the brown earth, the strange flower must unfold itself to
the sun and wind and rain.

So he went to his father. "My father," he said, and it is to be feared he had learnt something
of guile from the source of his bitter-sweet madness. "My father, I have heard from Miss Julia;
she would wish us to have the narcissus 'The Good Comrade.'"

Mijnheer was pleased. "That is as it should be," he said; he had felt strongly about the gift
of the bulb in the first instance, but that was an affair over and done with long ago between
him and his son. He did not reopen it now, he was only gratified to think there was a likelihood
of the daffodil coming back to its birthplace, where it certainly ought to be. "How much does
Miss Julia ask for it?" he inquired.

"Nothing," Joost answered; "she does not wish to sell it; she wishes to give it back."

"But, but!" Mijnheer exclaimed, pushing up his spectacles in astonishment; he knew the value
of the thing and the offers that must have been made for it; this way was not at all his notion
of doing business; also he found it hard to reconcile with the Julia he remembered. He recollected
talk he had had with her when she had proved herself an apt pupil in trade and trade dealings,
and shown, not only a very good comprehension of such things, but also an eye to the main chance.
"This is nonsense," he said; "it is not business."

Joost looked distressed. "I gave her the bulb," he ventured; "she does not want to sell me
back my present."

Mijnheer did not recognise any such distinction in business transactions, and for a little
it looked as if "The Good Comrade" would be sent wandering again, sacrificed to his old-fashioned
notions of integrity. Joost should not have it unless he paid for it, he said so with decision.
He himself would buy it if Joost would not, and if she would not sell it to him then neither
of them should have it.

And Joost could not, even if he would, explain why and how the paying was so difficult. He
used all the arguments he could; indeed, for one of his nature, he spoke with considerable
diplomacy.

"Supposing," he said at last, "that it was only a sport, and that next year it reverts and
is blue as are the others, the parent bulbs? Miss Julia thinks of that--she would not like
to be paid for it now in case of such a thing, will you not at least wait until the spring?
She has given nothing for it herself; it is not as if she had sunk money and wants an immediate
return."

Mijnheer did not consider that made any difference and he said so, reading his son a lecture
on business morality according to his standard, of a very severe order. Joost listened with
meekness to the entirely undeserved reproof for meanness and dishonourable views; then the
old man announced finally what he should do. He should write to Julia and offer her a smallish
sum down in case the bulb proved to be of no great worth, and a promise of a proportional percentage
afterwards if it proved valuable. This idea pleased him very well; it satisfied his notions
of integrity and fair dealing and also his thrifty soul, which found trying the otherwise unavoidable
duty of paying a long price for what had been freely given. From this Joost could not move
him, so there was nothing for him to do but write distressfully to Julia and explain and apologise.

CHAPTER XXII

THE LINE OF LEAST RESISTANCE

Julia was at work in the kitchen; it was ten o'clock on a November morning and she was busy;
Captain Polkington had had breakfast up-stairs, he often did now, and it delayed the morning's
work. Mr. Gillat brought in two letters which the postman had left; both were for Julia, but
she had not time to read them now, so she put them down on the table; they would keep; she
did not feel greatly interested to know what was inside them. Things did not interest her as
they used; in some imperceptible way she had aged; some of the elasticity and youth was gone,
perhaps because hope was gone. It had been dying all the summer, ever since the day when she
crouched behind the chopping-block; but gently and gradually, as the year dies, with some beauties
unknown in early days and little recurrent spurts of hope and youth, like the flowers that
bloom into winter's lap. But it was dead now; there had come to her, as it were, a sudden frost,
and, as befalls in the years, too, the late blooming flowers, the coloured leaves, the last
beautiful clinging remnants of life withered all at once and fell away. It was unreasonable,
perhaps, that the Captain's theft of the daffodil and what arose from it should have had this
result; but then it was possibly unreasonable that hope and youth should have had any autumn
at all and not died right off when she said "No" and meant it that afternoon in the early summer.
But then the mind of man--and woman--is unreasonable.

It was nearly half-an-hour later when Julia picked up the letters; both were from Holland;
one, she fancied, was from Mijnheer, one from his son. She opened the latter first; she rather
wondered what Joost could have to write about; he had acknowledged the receipt of the daffodil
bulb long ago. The matter was soon explained; the letter was as formal and precise as ever,
but the emotion that dictated it, the distress and regret, was quite clear to Julia in spite
of the primness of expression. Clear, too, to her were the conflicting feelings that lay behind
the lover's contrition for what he feared was abuse of his mistress's trust, and the grower's
desire that the treasured token should be resolved into, what it was, a wonderful bulb, a triumph
of the horticulturist. Julia smiled a little sadly as she read; not that she regretted the
existence of the grower with the lover; she was glad to see it and to know that it was triumphing.
But the whole affair seemed so far off, so unimportant, so almost childish. She did not care
who knew he had the daffodil, or whether it bloomed or rotted. In these days, when her self-apportioned
burden was beginning to press heavily upon her shoulders, such things did not seem to matter.
She had a sense almost of disloyalty in feeling how little it mattered to her when it appeared
to be so much to this loyal friend.

Captain Polkington had of late had several sudden attacks of a faintness which more often than
not amounted to unconsciousness. "Heart," the doctor had said when he was summoned after the
first one; he had not regarded them as very dangerous, that is to say not likely to prove fatal
at any moment if properly treated at the time. He had given instructions as to suitable treatment,
emphasising the fact that the patient ought never to be long out of ear-shot of some one, as
the attacks required immediate remedy. He forbade excitement and much exertion, orders easy
to fulfil in this case, and also stimulants of all sorts, an order not quite so easy. Captain
Polkington was much displeased about this last; he said it plainly showed the doctor a fool
who did not know his business; stimulant, as every one knew, being the first necessity for
a weak heart. Julia pointed out that that must vary with the constitution, nature and disease;
she also recalled the fact that alcohol never had suited her father. He was naturally not convinced
by her logic, and so was decidedly sulky; even in time, by dint of dwelling upon the subject,
came to regard the treatment as a conspiracy to annoy him. Julia regretted this but did not
think it mattered very much, seeing that she had the keys; but then she did not know of that
purchase made in the town. The Captain, rebelling against the doctor's order, hugged himself
as he thought of it and of the comparatively sparing use he had made of it so far--for fear
of being found out. There was no need of him to die by inches while he had that store of life
and comfort; so he told himself, and secretly made use of it, with anything but good result.
Julia, marking the disimprovement in his health, thought it was the natural course and saved
him all work, carrying out the doctor's instructions more carefully than ever. The hidden whisky
remained unknown to her, for although in the larger affairs of duplicity and diplomacy she
easily outmatched her father, in matters requiring small cunning he was much nearer her equal.
In this one he showed almost preternatural skill; his whole heart was in it, and his wits,
where it was concerned, were sharpened above the average; he clung to his secret as a man clings
to his one chance of life, made only the more pertinacious by the contrary advice he had received.
But on that November morning, after Julia had brought her father round by the proper remedies,
she began to have suspicions. They were not founded on anything definite; she could not imagine
how he should have got stimulant, and his condition hardly justified her in suspecting it,
yet she did. And Captain Polkington knew by experience that that was enough to prove unpleasant;
it did not matter much at which end Julia got hold of his affairs, she had a knack of arriving
at the middle before he was at all ready for her. He resented what she said to him that morning
very much indeed. He denied everything and defended himself well; although he was in fear all
the time that some unwary word or unwise denial should betray him to his cross-examiner who,
being herself no mean expert in the double-dealing arts, could frequently learn as much from
a lie as from the truth. In the end, what between anxiety and annoyance, he lost control of
his temper and from peevish irritability broke out suddenly into a fit of weak ungovernable
rage. Julia was obliged at once to desist, seeing with regret that she had transgressed one
of the doctor's rules and excited the patient very much indeed.

She left him to recover control of himself and went to look for Mr. Gillat.

"Johnny," she said, when she found him. "I believe father has got whisky. I don't know where,
but I shall have to find out; you must help me."

Johnny professed his willingness, looking puzzled and unhappy; he looked so at times, again
now, for even he had begun to discern a shadow coming on the life which for a year had been
so happy to him.

"You will have to keep a watch on father," Julia said. "He won't do much while I am watching;
he will wait till he is alone with you. Don't try to prevent him; that is no good; just watch
and tell me."

Mr. Gillat said he would, though he did not like the job, and certainly was ill-fitted for
it. Julia knew that, but knew also that to discover anything she must depend a good deal upon
him, unless she could by searching light upon the store of spirit which she could not help
thinking her father had in or near the house. She determined to make a systematic search; but
before she did so she found time to open Mijnheer's letter.

It was rather a long letter and very neat. It set forth in formal Dutch the old man's ideas
concerning the daffodil bulb and his offer regarding it. It should be kept, he said, if it
was paid for, not otherwise. Something now, she was to name her terms, while it was still uncertain
whether its flower would be blue or streaked or even common yellow--more later, in accordance
with the flowering and the profits likely to arise.

So Julia read and sat staring. An offer for "The Good Comrade." Money from the people to whom
it had always practically belonged in her estimation. She could not take it from them, it was
impossible; the thing was virtually their own! But if she did not. She re-read Joost's letter
with its protestations, and Mijnheer's with its offer--if she did not, the little brown bulb
would be sent back to her. Mijnheer, now that he knew of its coming, would insist on its return
unless it were paid for; and Joost, she knew very well, would not deceive his father and keep
it secretly, or defy his father and keep it openly; the money or the bulb she must have. And
the bulb she could not, would not have again; so the money, unearned, distasteful, having a
not too pleasant savour, must be hers. At last, in this way, without her contrivance, against
her will, there had come a way to pay the debt of honour!

She sat down and wrote to Mijnheer and named her price. Thirty pounds she asked for, no more
in the future, no less now; that was the only price she could take for "The Good Comrade,"
it was the sum Rawson-Clew had paid to his cousin two years ago.

Johnny posted the letter that afternoon while Julia began her search for her father's hidden
whisky.

All the afternoon Captain Polkington sat in the easy-chair, watching her contemptuously when
she was in sight and moving uneasily when she was not. He did not think she would find anything,
at least not at once, though he was afraid she would if she kept on long enough and he left
his treasure in its present hiding-place. It would not last so much longer--he dared not contemplate
the time when it should all be gone; it was characteristic of him that he was easily able to
avoid doing so. The principal thought in his mind was a determination that it should not be
found while any remained. That could not and should not happen; the last little which he had
carefully hoarded, which he had stinted and deprived himself to save--to have that taken away,
to be robbed of that--the tears gathered in his eyes at the pathos of the thought.

But the whisky was not found that day, and the Captain, who slept but badly at this time, lay
awake long in the night planning how and when he could move it to a place of safety further
away from the house. He would have gone down then and there, in spite of the fact that it was
a blustering night of wind and rain and he not fitted to go out in such weather, but he was
afraid of Julia. She was certain to hear and follow; she had almost an animal's alertness when
once she was on the trail of anything. So he lay and planned and waited, hoping that a chance
would come during the next day.

It did not. Julia was at home all day and, as she had foreseen, he made no move while she was
about. But the following morning she had to go to Halgrave about the killing of a pig; Johnny
was hardly equal to making the necessary arrangements and certainly could not do so good as
she. Accordingly, she went herself, not very reluctantly, for she was nearly certain her father
would make an effort to get at his whisky, if he had any, as soon as her back was turned, and
so give Johnny a chance of finding out about it. Of course it was quite likely that Johnny,
being Johnny, would miss the chance, but he might not, and even if he did they would not be
much worse off than before. So she thought as she started, leaving the Captain, who was still
in bed, with a very vague idea as to when she would be back.

He was a good deal annoyed by this vagueness; it meant he would have to hurry, a thing he hated
and did very badly; and, perhaps, entirely without reason, too, for she might be three hours
gone; though, equally of course, only two, or perhaps--she was capable of anything unpleasant
and unexpected--only one. He began to dress as quickly as he could; but, owing to long habit
of doing it as slowly as he could so as to postpone more arduous tasks, that was not very fast.
He wished he had known sooner that Julia was going to Halgrave, he would have begun getting
up before this; he would even have got to breakfast if only she had let him know; so he fumed
to himself as he shuffled about, dropping things with his shaking fingers. At last he was dressed
and came down-stairs to find Johnny, pink and apologetic as he used to be in the Marbridge
days, laboriously doing odd jobs which did not need doing.

There was not a detective lost in Mr. Gillat, he had not the making of a sleuth-hound in him;
or even a watch-dog, except, perhaps, of that well-meaning kind which gets itself perennially
kicked for incessant and incurable tail wagging at inopportune times. The half-hour which followed
Captain Polkington's coming down-stairs was a trying one. The Captain went to the back door
to look out; Mr. Gillat followed him, though scarcely like his shadow; he was not inconspicuous,
and neither he nor his motive were easy to overlook. The Captain said something approbious
about the weather and the high wind and occasional heavy swishes of rain; then he went to the
sitting-room which lay behind the kitchen, and near to the front door. Johnny followed him,
and the Captain faced round on him, irritably demanding what the devil he wanted.

"To--to see if the register is shut," Mr. Gillat said, beaming at his own deep diplomacy and
the brilliancy of the idea which had come to him--rather tardily, it is true, still in time
to pass muster.

The Captain flung himself into a chair with a sigh of irritation. "It is a funny thing I can't
be let alone a moment," he said. "I came in here for a little quiet and coolness, I didn't
want you dodging after me."

"No," Johnny agreed amiably; "no, of course not." Then, after a long pause, as if he had just
made sure of the fact, "It is cool in here."

It was, very; it might even have been called cold and raw, for there had not been a fire there
for days, but the Captain did not move, and Johnny, stooping by the fire-place, examined the
register of the chimney, fondly believing in his own impenetrable deceptiveness.

"I can't help thinking it ought to be shut," he observed, looking thoughtfully up the chimney;
"the rain will come down; it might rain a good deal if the wind were to drop."

"The wind is not going to drop for hours," the Captain snapped; "it is getting higher."

A great gust rumbled in the chimney as he spoke, and flung itself with the thud of a palpable
body against the window-pane. Mr. Gillat heard it; he could not well do otherwise. "Still,"
he said, "it might rain; one never knows."

He took hold of the register with the tongs and tried to shut it. It was obstinate, and he
pulled this way and that, working in his usual laborious and conscientious way. At last it
slipped and he managed to get it jammed crossways. Thus he had to leave it, for Captain Polkington,
apparently cool enough now, wandered back into the kitchen.

Mr. Gillat, of course, followed and arranged and rearranged pots on the stove till the Captain
said he had left his handkerchief up-stairs. Stairs were trying to his heart, so Johnny had
to go for it. Up he went as fast as he could, and came down again almost faster, for he tumbled
on the second step and slipped the rest of the way with considerable noise and bumping.

After that Captain Polkington gave up his efforts to get rid of his guard and resigned himself
to fate. At least, so thought Mr. Gillat, who no amount of experience could instruct in the
guilt of the human race in general and the Polkingtons in particular. The first hour of Julia's
absence had passed when Johnny went into the back kitchen to clean knives. He left the door
between the rooms open, but from habit more than from any thought of keeping an eye on his
charge. They had been talking in the ordinary way for some time now, the Captain sitting so
peacefully by the fire that Mr. Gillat had begun to forget he was supposed to watch. And really
it would seem he was justified, for the Captain, of his own accord, left the easy-chair and
followed him into the back kitchen, standing watching the knife-cleaning. He had been talking
of old times, recalling far back incidents regretfully; he continued to do so as he watched
Johnny at work until he was interrupted by a loud sizzling in the kitchen.

"Hullo!" he said, "there's a pot boiling over!" and he made as if he would go to it but half
stopped. "It is the big one," he said, "perhaps you had better take it off; I'm not good at
lifting weights now-a-days."

"No, no!" Johnny said hastily; "don't you do it, you leave it to me," and he hurried into the
kitchen to take from the fire a pot which, had he only remembered it, had not been so near
the blaze when he left it.

"It is too heavy for you," he went on as he lifted it; "I don't know what is inside, only water,
I think; it will be all right here by the side."

A gust of wind swept round the kitchen, fluttering the herbs which hung from the ceiling and
blowing the dust and flame from the front of the fire.

"Dear, dear!" Mr. Gillat exclaimed as he drew back, "What a wind!" Then, as he caught the whisper
and whistle of the leafless things which whisper to one another out of doors even in the dead
winter time, he realised that the outer door must be open.

"Shut it!" he said. "The latch is so old, it is beginning to get worn out, and the wind is
so strong, too. Let me see if I can shut it." He went to the back kitchen for that purpose
and found that he was talking to empty air, the Captain was gone.

In great consternation he went out after his charge. He had not had a minute's start; he could
not have got far, not much more than round the corner of the house. So thought Mr. Gillat,
and started round the nearest corner after him. Julia would not have done that; with the instinct
of the wild animal and the rogue for cover, and for the value of the obvious in concealment,
she would have looked by the water butt first. It was not a hiding-place; the bush beside did
not half conceal Captain Polkington, yet he stood dark and unobtrusive against it and so close
to the door that in looking out for him one naturally looked beyond him. As Johnny went round
one side of the house the Captain left the meagre shelter of the butt and went round the other,
bent now on finding some better hiding-place till it should be safe for him to go to his precious
store. And seeing that he was braced by an insatiable whisky thirst and so possessed by one
idea that he had almost a madman's cunning in achieving his purpose, it is not wonderful that
he succeeded. While Johnny hastily searched the out-buildings he lay hid. And when at last
Mr. Gillat went back to the house, being convinced that his charge must have gone back before
him, he, nerved and strengthened by a dose of the precious spirit, carefully climbed over the
garden wall, carrying with him all that was left of his store. It was rather heavy, and the
rising wind was strong, but he was strong, too, and he bore more strength with him. He could
carry a weight and fight with the wind if he wanted to; his heart was well enough when it was
properly treated. And it should be properly treated as long as he had his comfort, his precious
medicine safe and in a place where prying hands could not touch it.

       *       *       *       *       *

Julia came home from Halgrave later than she expected, but the wind had increased to a gale,
so that walking along the exposed road had been no easy matter. Johnny by this time was almost
desperate with alarm, for Captain Polkington had not come back and, in spite of a continuous
search in likely and unlikely places, he had not been able to find any trace of him or his
whisky. It is true his search was not very systematic at the best of times; it is not likely
to have been now; as his alarm increased, it grew worse, until, by the time Julia came in,
it had become little more than a repeated looking in the same unlikely places and an incessant
toiling up and down-stairs and across the garden in the howling wind.

His account of the Captain's vanishing was much obscured by self-condemnation and anxiety,
still she managed to make it out and she did not at first think so very seriously of it. She
concluded from it that her father had succeeded in getting at his whisky and Johnny had failed
to prevent him or find out the whereabouts of the store--a not very astonishing occurrence.
The fact that the Captain had not returned or shown himself for so long was surprising and
to be regretted, seeing the badness of the weather. But it was not inexplicable; he might be
anxious to demonstrate his freedom, or, by frightening them, to pay them out for the watch
lately kept on him; or--and this was the one serious aspect of the matter--he might have taken
more of the spirit than he could stand in his weak state and be too stupid and muddled to come
back alone. Julia reassured Johnny as well as she could, and then, accompanied by him, set
to work to search thoroughly the house, garden and out-buildings.

It was dinner time before they had finished. Julia came to the doorway of the bulb shed uneasy
and perplexed. "It is clear he is not here," she said, and turned to fasten the door. A gust
of wind tore it from her hand, flinging it back noisily. She caught it again and secured it.
"It is dinner time," she said; "come along indoors, there is no reason why you should go hungry
because father chooses to."

Johnny followed her to the house. When they were indoors he said, "Do you think--you don't
think he has had an attack?--that he is lying unconscious somewhere?" That was precisely what
Julia was beginning to think; there seemed no other possible explanation. Johnny read her mind
in her face and was overwhelmed with the sense of his own shortcomings and their possible consequences.

"It is not your fault," Julia assured him; "you might as well say it is father's for being
so foolish and obstinate about his whisky--a great deal better and more truly say it is mine
for leaving you, and for driving him into this corner, for not having managed the whole thing
better."

Johnny, though a little relieved that she did not think him to blame, was not comforted. "Let
us go and find him," he said; "we must find him; never mind about dinner--we must go and look
for him--though I don't know where."

"We must look beyond the garden," Julia said; "he must have got further than we first thought--but
I don't see how he can be far in this weather. Cut some cheese and bread; we can eat it as
we go along."

In a little while they set out together, Julia taking restoratives with her, though she was
also careful to leave some on the kitchen-table in case Captain Polkington should make his
way back and feel in need of them in her absence. Outside the garden wall one felt the force
of the wind more fully, and realised how impossible it was that the Captain should have gone
far. Julia stood a moment by the gate. Before her lay the road to Halgrave; her father might
have gone down it a little way; but if he had he must have turned off and sought concealment
somewhere for she had seen no sign of any one when she came home. To the left stretched the
heath-land, brown and bare, to the belt of wildly tossing pines; it was hard to imagine her
father choosing that way. To the right lay the sandhills, a place of unsteady outline, earth
and sky alike pale and blurred as the north-west wind fled seawards, lifting and whirling the
fine particles till the air seemed full of them; it was impossible to think of any one choosing
that way.

"We will go down the road to begin with," Julia said, and started.

All through the early part of the afternoon they searched; sometimes stopped for a moment by
a gust of wind; Julia caught and whirled, Johnny brought to a panting standstill. But on again
directly, struggling down the road, looking in ditches and behind scant bushes, leaving the
track first on the right hand then on the left, searching in likely and unlikely places. But
always with the same result, there was no sign of the missing man. At last, when they had reached
a greater distance than it was possible to imagine the Captain could have gone, they turned
towards the house across the heath. It was difficult to think of the Captain going that way,
seeing he would have been walking in the teeth of the wind, but it almost seemed he must have
done it.

The short day was already beginning to close in when they reached the belt of pines. It had
grown much colder; one could almost believe there would be frost in the air by and by. The
wind was lulling a little; it still roared with strange rushings and half-demented tearings
at the tree-tops, almost like some great spirit prisoned there, but it had spent its first
strength. The rain clouds were going, too; already in places the sky was swept clear so that
a pale light gleamed behind the trees.

Julia stood in the vibrant shelter of the pines, pushing back her hair; she was bareheaded;
a hat had been an impossible superfluity when she started out.

"Johnny," she said, "we have come too far; father could not have got to the trees in such weather
as it was when he started; we must go back. I expect he is somewhere nearer home; we have not
half searched the possible radius yet."

Johnny said "Yes." He was dog-tired, so tired that his anxiety was now little more than dull
despair animated by an unquestioning determination to continue the search.

He would have done so somehow, and with his flagging energies been more hindrance than help,
had not Julia prevented him; as they neared the house, now almost merged in the dusk, she said--

"I am going to fetch a lantern; the moon will be up soon, but until then I shall want a light.
I am just coming in to get it, then I shall go out again; but you must stop at home; father
may come back, and if he found us both out after dark he would think something was wrong and
start to look for us; then we should be worse off than ever."

Johnny said "Yes"; but suggested, "I think we'd better look round about the house once more.
I think I'll take a light and look round again."

Julia did not think it would be much use; however she consented, though she had to go with
Johnny; she did not trust him with a lantern among the out-buildings. They looked round once
more, in the sheds and in the dark garden; afterwards they went out and looked beyond the wall
all round, on the side where the heather grew and also on the side where the loose sand came
close. It took time; Johnny was too tired to move quickly or even to understand quickly what
was said to him. At last Julia stopped and spoke decisively.

"You had better go in now," she said; "it won't do for us both to be out any longer; one of
us must go in, and I think it had better be you. Make a good fire, see that there is plenty
of hot water and get something to eat so as to be ready to do things when I come back."

Johnny acquiesced and Julia, having watched him into the house, took up her lantern and set
out in the direction of the sandhills.

It was her last resource; it did not seem to her likely that her father could have gone there;
at the best of times he disliked the place, finding it very tiring. Still, with the wind behind
him as it would have been this morning, it is possible he would have found it the easiest way--if
he could have managed to forget what the coming back would be. At all events she determined
to try it, so she set out for the waste.

By this time the moon was rising, and, in spite of the driving clouds which had not all dispersed,
at times it shone clear. Beneath it the stretch of sand lay pale and desolate, a new-formed
landscape of fresh contours, loosely-piled hills and shallow scooped hollows shaped by to-day's
wind. An easy place for a man to miss his way with a gale blowing and the sand dancing blinding
reels. A hard place for a man to travel far when he had to face the wind; a strong man would
have found it very tiring, a weak man might well have given it up, driven to waiting for a
lull in the weather. As for a man in the Captain's health--when Julia thought of it she hurried
on, although she knew if her father had to-day, as he had all through his life, followed the
line of least resistance, the chances were that her help would be of little avail to him now.

She carried her lantern low, looking carefully for footprints; soon, however, she put it out;
she would do better without in the increasing moon-light. But she found no prints; after all,
as she remembered, she was hardly likely to; the wind and blowing sand would have obliterated
them. Over the first level of sand she went to the nearest rise without seeing anything; up
to that and down the following hollow, looking in every curve and indentation, still without
seeing anything. Then she began to climb the next rise. The moon was struggling through a long
cloud, one moment eclipsed, the next shining with a half radiance which made the landscape
unevenly black and white. For a second it looked out clear, and the sand showed like silver,
tear-spotted with ink in the hollows; then the cloud swept up and all turned to a level grey.
She had climbed to the top of a rise by now, sinking deep and noiseless into the soft sand.
It was too dark to see what was below; all was shadow, black shadow--or was it a blackness
more substantial than shadow?

The cloud passed from off the moon's face, the light shone out once more, turning the sand
to silver. All the great empty space, where the dying wind still throbbed, was white silver,
except down in the hollow where, black and still, lay the man who had followed the line of
least resistance.

CHAPTER XXIII

PAYMENT AND RECEIPT

On the day of Captain Polkington's funeral, a letter was brought to White's Cottage. Julia
herself took it in, and when she saw that it was from Holland she asked the postman to wait
a minute as she would be glad if he would post a letter for her. He sat down, nothing loth;
the cottage was the last place on his round and he never minded a rest there. He waited while
Julia went up-stairs with her letter. She opened it before she got to her room and barely read
the contents; there was enclosed a cheque for thirty pounds, the price of "The Good Comrade."

It had come, then, at last, this money for which she had been waiting two years--but too late.
The man in whose name she would have paid the debt lay dead. She had planned to clear him without
his knowledge, reinstate him in the good opinion of his debtor without letting her hand be
seen; and she could not, for he was dead, and there was no hand but hers, and no name to clear.
It was not a week too late, yet so much, so bitterly much. Too late for her cherished plan,
too late for any of the things she had hoped, too late for triumph, or joy, or satisfaction;
too late to demonstrate the once hoped for equality; too late for the fulfilling of anything
but a dogged purpose. For a moment she looked at the cheque, feeling the irony which had sent
her the means of paying his debt now that her father lay in his coffin, indifferent to his
good name and his honour; unable, alike, to clear or be cleared, to wrong or be wronged; removed
by kindly death from the scope of earthly judgment, even the just thoughts of one who had suffered
on his account.

She put down the cheque and pencilled some hasty words--"In payment of Captain Polkington's
debt (to Mr. Rawson-Clew) discharged by Hubert Farquhar Rawson-Clew on the--November 19--"

So she wrote, then she put the slip with the cheque in an envelope and addressed it to the
London club where the explosive had been sent.

"It will be posted before the funeral," she thought; "I'm glad--it will all end together--poor
father!"

She went down-stairs and gave the letter to the postman. Mrs. Polkington came into the kitchen
as she was doing so, for Mrs. Polkington was at the cottage now.

There are some women who seem designed by nature for widows, just as there are others designed
for grandmothers and yet others for old maids. Mrs. Polkington was of the first sort; she seemed
specially created to adorn the position of widow-hood; she certainly did adorn it; she was
a pattern to all widows and did not miss a single point of the situation. Of course she came
to the cottage as soon as possible after receiving news of her husband's death. The journey
was long and expensive, the weather somewhat bad; that weighed for nothing with her; she was
there as soon as might be, feeling, saying and doing just what a bereaved widow ought. The
fact that she and her husband had been obliged through the force of circumstances, to live
separate the past year did not alter her emotions, her real tears or her real grief. Considering
the practice and experience she had had it would have been surprising if she had not succeeded
in deceiving herself as well as most of her world in these things. So acute were her feelings
that when she came into the kitchen and saw Julia dispatching the letter, she felt quite a shock.

"What is it?" she asked; "What is the matter?"

"Only a letter that could not wait," Julia answered.

"Surely it could have waited till to-morrow," her mother said; "under the circumstances surely
one would be excused."

Julia thought differently but did not say so, and in silence set about some necessary preparation.

The Reverend Richard Frazer came to the funeral; Violet was unable to do so; he represented
her and supported his mother-in-law too. The banker, Mr. Ponsonby, also made the tedious journey
to Halgrave; he came out of respect for death in the abstract, and also because he expected
affairs would want looking to, and it would suit him better to do it now than later. These
two with Johnny, Julia and her mother, were the only mourners at the funeral; a few village
folk, moved by curiosity, attended, but no one else; there was not even an empty carriage,
representative of a good family, following the humble cortège. Mrs. Polkington observed this
and felt it; an empty carriage and good livery following would have given her satisfaction,
without in any way diminishing her sorrow and proper feeling. It is conceivable she would have
found satisfaction in being shipwrecked in aristocratic company, without at the same time,
suffering less than she ought to suffer.

After the funeral they returned to the cottage and had a repast of Julia's providing, eminently
suitable to the occasion. Everything was eminently suitable, every one's behaviour, every one's
clothes; Mr. Frazer's grave face, the banker's jerky manner--the manner of a man concerned
with the world's money market and ill at ease in the intrusive presence of death. Mrs. Polkington's
voice, face, feelings, sayings, everything. Julia's own behaviour was perfect, though all the
time she saw how it looked as plainly as if she had been another and disinterested person,
and once or twice she had an hysterical desire to applaud a good stroke of her mother's or
prompt a backward speech of her uncle's. Mr. Gillat, of course, did nothing suitable; he never
did. He kept up a preternaturally cheerful appearance during the meal, stopping his mouth with
large corks of bread, answering "Ah, yes, yes, just so," indiscriminately whenever he was spoken
to, and starting three separate conversations on the weather on his own account. As soon as
the table was cleared, he fled into the back kitchen, shut himself in with the dishes, and
was seen no more. The others remained in the sitting-room and talked things over, arranging
plans for the future and for the immediate present. And when the time came and the conveyance
was brought to the gate, they set out on the homeward journey together. Johnny did not come
out of the kitchen to say good-bye; only Julia came to the gate.

Mr. Ponsonby was going back home; Mr. Frazer and Mrs. Polkington were going with him to spend
the night in town and go on westwards the next morning. Mr. Frazer was anxious to get back
to his parish, and Mrs. Polkington to her daughter, who was expecting her first baby shortly.
It was this expected event which prevented the young rector from asking Julia to stay with
him and Violet until such time as she and her mother could settle somewhere together. It was
this same event which prevented Mrs. Polkington from remaining at White's Cottage and sharing
Julia's solitude until their plans were settled. All this was explained to Julia in the best
Polkington manner and she seemed quite satisfied with the explanation. Mr. Ponsonby had to
be perforce; there seemed no alternative; all the same he was not quite pleased. It was all
sensible enough, of course, only as he saw Julia standing at the gate in the November afternoon,
he did not quite like it.

"Look here," he said shortly, "you shut up this place here, send Mr. Gillat to his friends,
or his rooms, or wherever he came from, and come to me. You can come and make your home with
me, and welcome, till things are settled; there's plenty of room."

This was a good deal for Mr. Ponsonby to say, considering what an annoyance the Polkington
family had been to him, how--not without wisdom--he had set his face against letting them into
his house for more than twenty-four hours at a stretch, and how much this particular member
had thwarted and exasperated him at their last meeting. Julia recognised this and recognised
also the kindness of the brusque suggestion. She thanked him warmly for the offer though she
refused it, assuring him that she and Johnny would be all right at the cottage.

"We do not find it lonely," she said; "we are quite happy here, happier than anywhere else,
I think."

The banker grunted, not convinced; Mr. Frazer shook hands with Julia and said he hoped it would
not be long before he saw her; Mrs. Polkington reiterated the remark, kissing her the while;
then they drove away and Julia went into the house. She went into the back kitchen; Mr. Gillat
was not there; the dishes were all put away and the place was quite tidy. Julia went through
to the front kitchen; there she saw Johnny; he was kneeling by the Captain's old chair, his
arms thrown across the seat, his silly pink face buried in them, his rounded shoulders shaking
with sobs.

Johnny loved as a dog loves, without reason, without thought of return; not for wisdom, worth
or deserts, just because he did love and, having once loved, loved always; forgiving everything,
expecting nothing--foolish, faithful, true. So he loved his friend, so he mourned him now,
be-blubbering the seat of the shabby chair which spoke so eloquently to him of the irritable,
exacting presence now gone for ever.

"Johnny," Julia said softly; "Johnny dear."

She put a hand on the round shoulders and somehow slipped herself into the shabby chair.

"Johnny," she said, "let us sit by the fire awhile and not talk of anything at all."

So they sat together till twilight fell.

The next day there came another to Julia, one who knew nothing of what had befallen in these
last days. It was almost twilight when he came; Johnny had gone out to collect fir-cones; Julia
sent him, partly because their stock was low and partly because she thought it would do him
good. She did not expect him back much before five o'clock; it would be dark by then certainly,
but not very dark for the day was clear, with a touch of frost in the air; one of those days
when the last of the sunset burns low down in the sky long after the stars are out. It was
not much after four o'clock when Julia heard something approaching, certainly not Johnny nor
anything connected with him, for it was the throb of a motor coming fast. Only once before
since she had been at the cottage had she heard that sound on the lonely road, on the day when
Rawson-Clew came. It could not be him now, she was sure of that. He might have received the
money this morning certainly, but he would not come because of that, rather he would keep away;
there was no reason why he should come. She told herself it was impossible, and then went to
the door to see, puzzled in her own mind what she should say if the impossible had happened
and it was he.

The throbbing had ceased by now; there was the click of the gate even as she opened the door,
and he--it was he and no other--was coming up the little brick path in the twilight. His face
was curiously clear in the light which lingered low down; and when she saw it and the look
it wore, all plans of what she should say fled, and the feeling came upon her which was like
that which came when she crouched behind the chopping-block and he barred the way. It seemed
as if he had been pursuing and she escaping and eluding for a long time, but now--he was coming
up the path and she was standing in the doorway with the pale light strong on her face and
nowhere to fly to and no way of escape.

"Why did you not tell me before?" he said without any greeting at all, and he spoke as if he
had right and authority. "Why did you let this thing weigh on you for two years and never say
a word of it to me?"

"I was ashamed," she answered with truth. Then the spirit which still inhabits some women,
making them willing to be won by capture, prompted her to struggle against the capitulation
she was ready to make. "There was nothing to speak of to you or any one else," she said, with
an effort at her old assurance, and she led the way in as she spoke. "I never meant to speak
of it at all, I meant just to pay the debt as from father, and not myself appear in it. I did
not do it that way, I know; I could not; I did not get the money till yesterday and--and"--the
assurance faded away pathetically--"that was too late."

Rawson-Clew looked down, and for the first time noticed her mourning dress, and realising what
it meant, remembered that convention demanded that a man, whose claim depends on another's
death, should not push it as soon as the funeral is over. However he did not go away, the pathos
of Julia's voice kept him.

"Late or early would have made little difference," he said; "it is just the same now as if
it had been early. Do you think I should not have known who sent the money at whatever time
and in whatever circumstances it was paid? Do you think I know two people who would pay a debt,
which can hardly be said to exist, in such a way?"

But Julia was not comforted. "It is too late," she re-repeated; "too late for any satisfaction.
I thought I would prove that we were honest and honourable by paying it; I wanted to show father--that
I--that our standard was the same as yours, and I have not."

"No," he answered, "you have not and you never will; your standard is not the same as mine;
mine is the honour of an accepted convention, and yours is the honour of a personal truth,
a personal experience, the honour of the soul."

But she shook her head. "It is not really," she said; "and father--"

"As to your father," he interrupted gently, "do you not think that sometimes the potter's thumb
slips in the making of a vessel?"

She looked up with a feeling of gratitude. "Yes," she said; "yes, that is it, if only we could
realise it--poor father. It was partly our fault, too, mother's, all of ours--and he is dead now."

"I know. Let him rest in peace; we are concerned no more with his doings or misdoings; our
concern, yours and mine is with the living."

She did not answer; a piece of wood had fallen from the fire and lay blazing and spluttering
on the hearth; she stooped to pick it up and he watched her.

"I know I have no business here now," he said. "Had I known of his death before, I would not
have come to-day; I would have waited, but since I have come--Julia--"

She was standing straight now, the wood safely back in the fire; he put his hands on her shoulders
and turned her to him. "Julia, you and I have always dealt openly, without regarding appearances,
let us deal so now--since I have come. Won't you let me give you a receipt?"

       *       *       *       *       *

Julia said afterwards that receipts for the payment of such debts were unnecessary and never
given; which was perhaps as well, for the one she received in the dusk was not of a kind recognised
at law. Could it afterwards have been produced it would not have proved the payment of money,
though at the time it proved several things, principally the fact that, though friendship and
comradeship are fine and excellent things, there are simple primitive passions which leap up
through them and transfigure them and forget them, and it is these which make man man, and
woman woman, and life worth living, and the world worth winning and losing, too, and bring
the kingdom of heaven to earth again.

It also proved how exceedingly firmly a man who is in the habit of wearing a single eyeglass
must screw it into his eye, for, as Julia remarked with some surprise, the one which interested
her did not fall out.

       *       *       *       *       *

Mr. Gillat came home with his fir-cones at a quarter to five. And when he came he saw that,
to him, most fascinating sight--a motor-car, standing empty and quiet by the gate. He looked
at it with keen interest, then he looked round the empty landscape for its owner, and not seeing
him, wondered if he was in the house. He put away the cones and came to the conclusion that
the owner was not there and the car was an abandoned derelict. For which, perhaps, he may be
forgiven, for there was no light at the parlour window and no sound of voices that he could
hear from the kitchen; even when he opened the door and walked in he did not in the firelight
see any one besides Julia at first.

"Julia," he said, bringing in the astonishing news, "there is a motor-car outside!"

"Yes," Julia answered composedly; "but it is going away soon."

"Not very soon," another voice spoke out of the gloom of the chimney corner, and Johnny jumped
as he recognised it.

"Dear me!" he said; "dear me! Mr. Rawson-Clew! How do you do? I am pleased to see you."

The motor did not go away very soon; it stayed quite as long, rather longer, in fact, than
Mr. Gillat expected. And when it did go, he did not have the pleasure of seeing it start; he
somehow got shut in the kitchen while Julia went out to the gate.

When she came back she shut the door carefully, then turned to him, and he noticed how her
eyes were shining. "Johnny," she said, "I am a selfish beast; I am going to leave you. Not
yet, oh, not yet, but one day."

Johnny stared a moment, then said, "Of course, oh, of course, to be sure--to live with your
mother, she'll want you. A wonderful woman."

"Not to live with my mother," Julia said emphatically. "Sit down and I will tell you all about it."

And she told, slowly and suitably, fearing that he would hardly understand the wonderful goodness
of fate to her. But she need not have been afraid; he took her meaning at once, far quicker
than she expected, for he saw no wonder in it, only a very great goodness for the man who had
won her, and a great and radiant happiness for himself in the happiness that had come to her.
As for his loneliness, he never thought of that, why should he? Of course she would leave him,
it was the right and proper thing to do; she would leave him anyhow.

"You couldn't go on living with me here," he said; "I mean, I couldn't go on living with you;
it wouldn't be the thing, you know; you must think of that."

Julia caught her breath between tears and laughter, but he went on stoutly: "I shall go back
to town, to Mrs. Horn; I shall like it--at least when I get used to it. It is quite time I
went back to town; a man ought not to stay too long in the country; he gets rusty."

"You won't go back to town," Julia said; "you will never do that. You will stay here in the
cottage, and Mrs. Gray from next door to the shop will come and live here as your housekeeper;
I am going to arrange it with her. She will come and she will bring her little grand-daughter
and you will keep on living here always."

For a moment Johnny's face beamed; the prospect was exquisite; but he sternly put it from him.
"No," he said, "I shouldn't like that; it's kind of you, but--"

"Johnny," Julia interrupted, "you should always speak the truth--you do anything else so badly!
I don't mind if you like my plan or not, you will have to put up with it to help me; some one
must take care of the cottage."

"But you will want to come yourself," Mr. Gillat protested.

"Never, unless you are here."

In the end Julia had her way. Johnny lived at the cottage, and Mrs. Gray and her grandchild
came to keep house. And Billy, Mrs. Gray's nephew, came to help in the garden and take care
of the donkey; in the spring there was a donkey added to the establishment, and a little tub-cart
which held four children easily, besides Mr. Gillat. And it is doubtful if, in all the country
round, there was a happier man than he who tended Julia's plants in Julia's garden, and drove
parties of chattering children along the quiet lanes, and sat on warm summer evenings beside
his old friend's grave in Halgrave churchyard. He had forgotten many things, old slights and
old pains, and old losses; forgotten, perhaps, most things except love. Foolish Johnny, God's
fool, basking in God's sunshine.

And Julia and Rawson-Clew were married, very quietly, without any pomp or ostentation at all.
And if, on the honeymoon, he did not show her all the places he had thought of on the day when
he travelled north with the girl with the carnations, it was because he had not several years
at his disposal just then. Afterwards he made up for it as work allowed and time could be found.
In the record of their lives there are many days noted down as holidays, even such holidays
as that first one spent on the Dunes. In the springtime, when the bulb flowers were in bloom,
they went once more to the Dunes and to the little old town where the Van Heigens lived. They
were received with much ceremony by Mijnheer and his wife, and entertained at a dinner which
lasted from four till half-past six. It is true that afterwards state had to be lain aside,
for Julia insisted on helping to wash the priceless Nankeen china while her husband smoked
long cigars with Mijnheer on the veranda, but that was all her own fault. Denah came to tea
drinking, she and her lately-wed husband, the bashful son of a well-to-do shipowner. She was
very smiling and all bustling and greatly pleased with herself and all things, and if she thought
poorly of Julia for washing the plates, she thought very well of the glittering rings she had
left on the veranda-table and well, too, of her husband, who she recognised as the mysterious
"man of good family" they had seen on the day they drove to the wood. And afterwards when the
tea drinking was done and the dew was falling, Julia walked with Joost among his flowers, and
heard him speak of his hopes and ambitions, and knew that in his work he had found all the
satisfaction that a man may reasonably hope for here.

Later, Julia and her husband walked through the tidy streets of the town, looking in at lighted
windows, listening to the patois of the peasants and recalling past times. It was then that
he told her how he had that day tried to buy back the streaked daffodil.

"And Mijnheer would not sell it?" she asked.

"No," he answered; "not at any price, so I am afraid that you will have to do without 'The
Good Comrade' after all."

"I?" she said; "I can do quite well. Thank you for trying to get it; all the same I am not
sure I want it back."

"Do you not? Then I am quite sure that I do not, indeed, I rather fancy I already have the
real 'Good Comrade.'"