Until this awakening of the soul takes place, we mistake in thinking that we either live with
our soul, or know our soul, or feel with our soul. She does but stir within us from time to
time, awaking strange echoes that we do not comprehend; and we live with the mind and the heart
and the body only--which is to say, we live as the creature; and this is why on the complete
awakening of the soul we feel in the creature an immense and altogether indescribable enhancement
of life and of all our faculties, so that in great amazement we say, "I have never lived until
this day." When first the will of the creature is wholly submitted to the lovely guidance of
the divine part of the soul, then first we know the ineffable joys of the world of free spirit.
For to live with the mind and the body is to be in a state of existence in nature. But to live
with the soul is to live above nature, in the immeasurable freedom and intensity of the spirit.
And this is the tremendous task of the soul--that she help to redeem the heart and mind from
their vileness of the creature and so lift the human upwards with herself to the Divine from
whence she came. This, then, is the transmutation or evolution by divine means of the human
into the divine; and for this we need to seek repentance or change of heart and mind, which
is the will of the creature turning itself towards the beauties of the spirit, that Christ
may awaken in us the glories of that sleeping soul which is His bride.

When the soul is fully revived we can know it by this, that we are not able any longer to content
ourselves with anything nor anyone save God. Neither are we able to love any save God, for
all human desires and loves mysteriously ascend and are merged into the Divine. So, though
we love our friend, we love him in God, and in every man perceive but another lover for the
Beloved.

* * *

To love God might commence to be expressed as being a great quiet, an intense activity, a prodigious
joy, and the poignant knowledge of the immensity of an amazing new life shared.

The contemplation of God might be expressed as the folding up or complete forgetfulness of
all earthly and bodily things, desires, and attractions, and the raising of the heart and mind
and the centring of them in great and joyful intensity upon God, by means of love. Of this
contemplation of God I find two principal forms: the passive and the active. In the first we
are in a state of steady, quiet, and loving perception and reception, and at some farness;
in this we are able to remain for hours, entering this state when waking at dawn and remaining
in it till rising.

In active contemplation we are in rapturous and passionate adoration with great nearness, and
are not able to remain in it long because of bodily weakness. The soul feels to be never tired
by the longest flight, but must return because of the exhaustion of the forlorn and wretched
creature, which creature is complete in itself, having its body, of which, being able to touch
it, we say, "It is my body," and its heart and mind with intelligence, of which we are wont
to think, "This is myself"; yet it is but a part, for the intelligence of our creature is by
no means the intelligence of the divine soul, but a far lesser light: for with the intelligence
of the divine soul we reach out to God and attain Him, but with the intelligence of the creature
we reach towards Him but do not attain, for with it we are unable to penetrate the veil. Therefore,
who would know the joys of contemplation must come to them by love, for love is the only means
by which the creature can attain. The soul attains God as her birthright, but the creature
by adoption and redemption, and this through love. By love the creature dies and is reborn
into the spirit.

* * *

The word "poverty," as used to express a necessary condition of our coming to God, is a most
misleading term. For how can any condition be rightly named poverty which brings us into the
riches of God? Rather let us use the words "singleness of heart," or "simplicity": which is
to say, we put out all other interests save those pleasing to God (to commence with), and afterwards
we reach the condition in which we have no interests but in God Himself--the heart and mind
and will of the creature becoming wholly God's, and God filling them. How can we say, then,
that it is poverty to be filled with God! Rather is it rightly expressed as being a heart fixed
in singleness upon God, through drastic simplification of interests: the which is no poverty,
but the wealth of all the Universe.

* * *

Some of us seem open to suggestion, others to the steadier effects of personal influence. I
never came under the personal influence of another except once, when I came under the influence
of the being I loved most--my brother. At ten he saved my life from drowning, and at eighteen
his influence and total lack of faith in God, coupled with the searchings and probings of my
own intelligence, took me away from God, in whom I had previously had a comfortable faith.
At seventeen I began to lap up the hardest scientific books as a cat laps milk. I said to myself,
"I must find truth, I must find out what everything really is"; but I could not reconcile science
with Church teaching. I was not able to adjust the truths of science--which were demonstrable
to both senses and intelligence--with the unprovable dogmas set forth by the Church as necessary
to salvation. I slowly and surely lost what faith I had, and hung a withered heart upon the
pitiless and nameless bosom of the Cosmos. Inward life became for me a horrible emptiness without
hope. Surrounded with gaieties and the innumerable social successes of youth, I found that
neither science nor society could satisfy my soul, or that something living within me which
knew a terrible necessity for God. For two long and dreadful years I fought secretly and desperately
to regain this lost belief, and when at last I succeeded there remained a monstrous and impenetrable
wall between myself and God. But by comparison with the horrors of past loneliness it was heaven
to me to feel Him there, even behind that wall. (Now that I have found Him by love, I am able
to return to science as to a most exquisite unrolling of the majesty of His truths and powers
and laws, and am brought nearer and nearer to Him the more I learn of science.) Outside the
wall I remained for more than twenty years, seeking and searching for an opening in that mighty
barrier.

And after more than twenty years I found the Door--and it was Jesus Christ.

* * *

Lately I have seen the word "contemplation" used as expressing the heights of attainment in
God-consciousness of men, and I find it inadequate. From the age of seventeen I fell into the
habit of contemplation, not of God, but of Nature: which is to say, I would first place myself,
sitting, in such a position that my body would not fall and I might completely forget it, and
then would look about me and drink in the beauty of the scene, my eyes coming finally to rest
upon the spot most beautiful to me. There they remained fixed. All thoughts were now folded
up so that my mind, flowing singly in one direction, concentrated itself upon the beauty on
which I gazed. This soon vanished, and I saw nothing whatever, but, bearing away into a place
of complete silence and emptiness, I there assimilated and enjoyed inwardly the soaring essence
of the beauty which I had previously drawn into my mind through my eyes, being now no longer
conscious of seeing outwardly, but living entirely from the inward. This I did almost every
day, but to do it I was obliged to seek solitude, and absolute solitude is a hard thing to
find; but I sought it, no matter where, even in a churchyard! I saw no graves. I saw the sky,
or a marvellous cloud pink with the kisses of the sun, and away I went. I judge this now to
have been contemplation, though I never thought of it by so fine-sounding a name; it was only
my delightful pastime, yet there was a strange inexpressible sadness in it. Nature and beauty
were not enough. The more beauty I saw, the more I longed for something to which I could not
put a name. At times the ache of this pain became terrible, almost agonising, but I could not
forgo my pastime. Now, at last, I know what this pain was: my soul looked for God, but my creature
did not know it. For just in this same way we contemplate God, savouring Him without seeing
Him, and being filled to the brim with marvellous delights with no sadness.

But this condition of contemplation is very far from being the mountain-top; it is but a high
plateau from which we make the final ascent. The summit is an indescribable contact, and this
summit is not one summit but many summits. Which is to say, we have contact of several separate
forms--that of giving, that of receiving, and that of immersion or absorption, which at its
highest is altogether unendurable as fire.

Of this last I am able only to say this: that not only is it inexpressible by any words, but
that that which is a state of extreme beatitude to the soul is death to the creature by excess
of joy. Therefore both heart and mind fear to recall any details of the memory of this highest
attainment. I knew it but once. To know it again would be the death of my body. For more than
two hours (as well as I am able to judge) before coming to this highest experience, my soul
travelled through what felt to be an ocean, for she rose and fell upon billows in a state of
infinite bliss.

Of other forms of contact we have a swift, unexpected, even unsought-for attainment, which
is entirely of His volition; that sudden condescension to the soul, in which in unspeakable
rapture she is caught up to her holy lover.

These are the topmost heights which the creature dare recall, though to the soul they remain
in memory as life itself. The variations of these forms of contact are infinite, for God would
seem to will to be both eternal changelessness and variation in infinitude.

Because of this, and the marvellous depths and heights and breadths of life revealed to her,
the soul is able to conceive of an eternity of bliss, for monotony ceases to be joy. In Nature
we see that no two trees in a forest are alike, and two fruits gathered from one bough have
not the same flavour.

But to my feeling all degrees of attainment are only to be distinguished as varying degrees
of union, the joy of which is of a form and a degree of intensity and purity which can enter
neither the heart nor the mind to imagine, but must be experienced to be understood, and when
experienced remains in part incomprehensible. It is not to be obtained by force of the will,
neither can it be obtained without the will. It is, then, a mystery of two wills in unison,
in which our will is temporarily fused into and consumed by the will of God and is in transports
of felicity over its own annihilation! This is outside reason and therefore incomprehensible
to the creature, but comprehensible to the soul, and becomes the aim and object of our life
to attain in permanence, and is the uttermost limit of all conceivable rapture.

When I first knew union and contact upon the hill I had the impression of a very great light
outside of me. I never again had an outward impression of it.

But when any sense of inward light is felt I consider it to be a high ecstasy and hard for
the body. It is the sweet and gentle touchings of Christ which are the great and unspeakable
comfort of both soul and body. Inward heat I never felt till many months after my third conversion
and more than four years from my first conversion. This extraordinary sensation, which to my
mind is like a magnetic seething with heat and ravishment of joy, I felt inwardly only after
I had learnt to know a sudden, secret, joyous delight of love in the soul, which is easiest
described as sweetness of love, is from the Christ, and very frequently given by Him. And some
six months after the heat, fire, electric seething, or however best it may be named, I first
knew the song of the soul. Now, although it is better not to dwell upon the memory of past
spiritual joys, lest we become greedy, and equally wise not to dwell upon the memory of anguishes,
lest we fall into self-pity, which of all emotions is the most sickly and useless (and our
wisest is to live only from hour to hour with all the sweetness that we can, leaving to Him
the choosing of our daily bread, whether it be high joy or pain), still I confess that I have
thought over and compared these joys sufficiently to know very well which I love the best.
Heat of love is very wonderful, and sweetness is very lovely, and raptures and ecstasies are
outside words; but most beautiful of all is the song of the soul, and this is when--in highest
adoration--passing beyond heat, and further than sweetness, the soul goes up alone upon the
highest summit of love, and there like a bird pours out the rapturous and golden passion of
her love. And His Spirit, biding very near, never touches her; for if He touch, it is at once
an ecstasy, and because of the stress of this she would have neither words nor song with which
to rejoice Him.

Oh, the pure happiness of the soul in this wonderful song!

Truly I think it is greater than in the rapture or the ecstasy, because in these the soul receives,
but in the song, mounting right up to Him, she gives. And now at last we know the fuller meaning
of Christ's words where He says: "It is more blessed to give than to receive."

Beloved, Thou takest the creature and liftest it up; Thou takest the creature and liftest it
high, so that nevermore can it offend Thee, and the soul is free to sing of her love. Then
is it Thy will that the creature should love Thee? Or is it Thy will that the soul should adore?
Beloved, I know not whether with my heart and mind I most adore Thee, or whether with my soul
I love Thee more. And where is that secret trysting-place of love? I do not know; for whilst
I go there and whilst I return I am blind, and whilst I am there I am blinded by Love Himself.

O wondrous trysting-place I which is indeed the only trysting-place of all the world worthy
to be named.

For every other love on earth is but a poor, pale counterfeit of love--a wan Ophelia, wandering
with a garland of sad perished flowers to crown the dust.

* * *

As the loving creature progresses he will find himself ceasing to live in things, or thoughts
of things or of persons, but his whole mind and heart will be concentrated upon the thought
of God alone. Now Jesus, now the High Christ, now the Father, but never away from one of the
aspects or personalities of God, though his conditions of nearness will vary. For at times
he will be in a condition of great nearness, at times in a condition of some farness, or, more
properly speaking, of obscurity. He will be in a condition of waiting (this exceedingly frequent,
the most frequent of all); a condition of amazing happiness; a condition of pain, of desolation
at being still upon the earth instead of with God. He will be in a condition of giving love
to God, or a condition of receiving love, of remembrance and attention. He will be in a condition
of immeasurable glamour, an extraordinary illumination of every faculty, not by any act of
his own, but poured through him until he is filled with the elixir of some new form of life,
and feels himself before these experiences never to have lived--he but existed as a part of
Nature. But now, although he is become more united to Nature than ever before, he also is mysteriously
drawn apart from her, without being in any way presumptuous, he feels to be above her, not
by any merits but by intention of Another. He is become lifted up into the spirit and essence
of Nature, and the heavy and more obvious parts of her bind him no more. He is in a condition
of freedom, he is frequently in a condition of great splendour, and is wrapped perpetually
round about with that most glorious mantle--God-consciousness.

These are man's right and proper conditions. These are the lovely will of God for us. And too
many of us have the will to go contrary to Him. Oh, the tragedy of it! If the whole world of
men and women could be gathered and lifted into this garden of love! Persuaded to rise from
lesser loves into the bosom of His mighty Love!

For the truly loving soul here on earth there are no longer heavens, nor conditions of heavens,
nor grades, nor crowns, nor angels, nor archangels, nor saints, nor holy spirits; but, going
out and up and on, we reach at last THE ONE, and for marvellous unspeakably glorious moments
KNOW HIM.

This is life: to be in Him and He in us, and know it.

* * *

These beautiful flights of the soul cannot be taken through idleness, though they are taken
in what would outwardly appear to be a great stillness. This stillness is but the necessary
abstraction from physical activity, even from physical consciousness; but inwardly the spirit
is in a great activity, a very ferment of secret work. This, to the writer, is frequently produced
by the beautiful in Nature, the spirit involuntarily passing at sight of beauty into a passionate
admiration for the Maker of it. This high, pure emotion, which is also an intense activity
of the spirit, would seem so to etherealise the creature that instantly the delicate soul is
able to escape her loosened bonds and flies towards her home, filled with ineffable, incomparable
delight, praising, singing, and joying in her Lord and God until the body can endure no more,
and swiftly she must return to bondage in it. But the most wonderful flights of the soul are
made during a high adoring contemplation of God. We are in high contemplation when the heart,
mind, and soul, having dropped consciousness of all earthly matters, have been brought to a
full concentration upon God--God totally invisible, totally unimaged, and yet focussed to a
centre-point by the great power of love. The soul, whilst she is able to maintain this most
difficult height of contemplation, may be visited by an intensely vivid perception, inward
vision, and knowledge of God's attributes or perfections, very brief; and this as a gift, for
she is not able to will such a felicity to herself, but being given such she is instantly consumed
with adoration, and enters ecstasy.

Having achieved these degrees of progress, the heart and mind will say: "Now I may surely repose,
for I have attained!" And so we may repose, but not in idleness, which is to say, not without
abundance of prayer. For only by prayer is our condition maintained and renewed; but without
prayer, by which I mean an incessant inward communion, quickly our condition changes and wears
away. No matter to what degree of love we have attained, we need to pray for more; without
persistent but short prayer for faith and love we might fall back into strange woeful periods
of cold obscurity.

