Book Two: Influence Of Democracy On Progress Of Opinion In the United States.

De Tocqueville's Preface To The Second Part

The Americans live in a democratic state of society, which has naturally suggested to them
certain laws and a certain political character. This same state of society has, moreover, engendered
amongst them a multitude of feelings and opinions which were unknown amongst the elder aristocratic
communities of Europe: it has destroyed or modified all the relations which before existed,
and established others of a novel kind. The--aspect of civil society has been no less affected
by these changes than that of the political world. The former subject has been treated of in
the work on the Democracy of America, which I published five years ago; to examine the latter
is the object of the present book; but these two parts complete each other, and form one and
the same work.

I must at once warn the reader against an error which would be extremely prejudicial to me.
When he finds that I attribute so many different consequences to the principle of equality,
he may thence infer that I consider that principle to be the sole cause of all that takes place
in the present age: but this would be to impute to me a very narrow view. A multitude of opinions,
feelings, and propensities are now in existence, which owe their origin to circumstances unconnected
with or even contrary to the principle of equality. Thus if I were to select the United States
as an example, I could easily prove that the nature of the country, the origin of its inhabitants,
the religion of its founders, their acquired knowledge, and their former habits, have exercised,
and still exercise, independently of democracy, a vast influence upon the thoughts and feelings
of that people. Different causes, but no less distinct from the circumstance of the equality
of conditions, might be traced in Europe, and would explain a great portion of the occurrences
taking place amongst us.

I acknowledge the existence of all these different causes, and their power, but my subject
does not lead me to treat of them. I have not undertaken to unfold the reason of all our inclinations
and all our notions: my only object is to show in what respects the principle of equality has
modified both the former and the latter.

Some readers may perhaps be astonished that--firmly persuaded as I am that the democratic revolution
which we are witnessing is an irresistible fact against which it would be neither desirable
nor wise to struggle--I should often have had occasion in this book to address language of
such severity to those democratic communities which this revolution has brought into being.
My answer is simply, that it is because I am not an adversary of democracy, that I have sought
to speak of democracy in all sincerity.

Men will not accept truth at the hands of their enemies, and truth is seldom offered to them
by their friends: for this reason I have spoken it. I was persuaded that many would take upon
themselves to announce the new blessings which the principle of equality promises to mankind,
but that few would dare to point out from afar the dangers with which it threatens them. To
those perils therefore I have turned my chief attention, and believing that I had discovered
them clearly, I have not had the cowardice to leave them untold.

I trust that my readers will find in this Second Part that impartiality which seems to have
been remarked in the former work. Placed as I am in the midst of the conflicting opinions between
which we are divided, I have endeavored to suppress within me for a time the favorable sympathies
or the adverse emotions with which each of them inspires me. If those who read this book can
find a single sentence intended to flatter any of the great parties which have agitated my
country, or any of those petty factions which now harass and weaken it, let such readers raise
their voices to accuse me.

The subject I have sought to embrace is immense, for it includes the greater part of the feelings
and opinions to which the new state of society has given birth. Such a subject is doubtless
above my strength, and in treating it I have not succeeded in satisfying myself. But, if I
have not been able to reach the goal which I had in view, my readers will at least do me the
justice to acknowledge that I have conceived and followed up my undertaking in a spirit not
unworthy of success.

A. De T.

March, 1840

Section I: Influence of Democracy on the Action of Intellect in The United States.

Chapter I: Philosophical Method Among the Americans

I think that in no country in the civilized world is less attention paid to philosophy than
in the United States. The Americans have no philosophical school of their own; and they care
but little for all the schools into which Europe is divided, the very names of which are scarcely
known to them. Nevertheless it is easy to perceive that almost all the inhabitants of the United
States conduct their understanding in the same manner, and govern it by the same rules; that
is to say, that without ever having taken the trouble to define the rules of a philosophical
method, they are in possession of one, common to the whole people. To evade the bondage of
system and habit, of family maxims, class opinions, and, in some degree, of national prejudices;
to accept tradition only as a means of information, and existing facts only as a lesson used
in doing otherwise, and doing better; to seek the reason of things for one's self, and in one's
self alone; to tend to results without being bound to means, and to aim at the substance through
the form;--such are the principal characteristics of what I shall call the philosophical method
of the Americans. But if I go further, and if I seek amongst these characteristics that which
predominates over and includes almost all the rest, I discover that in most of the operations
of the mind, each American appeals to the individual exercise of his own understanding alone.
America is therefore one of the countries in the world where philosophy is least studied, and
where the precepts of Descartes are best applied. Nor is this surprising. The Americans do
not read the works of Descartes, because their social condition deters them from speculative
studies; but they follow his maxims because this very social condition naturally disposes their
understanding to adopt them. In the midst of the continual movement which agitates a democratic
community, the tie which unites one generation to another is relaxed or broken; every man readily
loses the trace of the ideas of his forefathers or takes no care about them. Nor can men living
in this state of society derive their belief from the opinions of the class to which they belong,
for, so to speak, there are no longer any classes, or those which still exist are composed
of such mobile elements, that their body can never exercise a real control over its members.
As to the influence which the intelligence of one man has on that of another, it must necessarily
be very limited in a country where the citizens, placed on the footing of a general similitude,
are all closely seen by each other; and where, as no signs of incontestable greatness or superiority
are perceived in any one of them, they are constantly brought back to their own reason as the
most obvious and proximate source of truth. It is not only confidence in this or that man which
is then destroyed, but the taste for trusting the ipse dixit of any man whatsoever. Everyone
shuts himself up in his own breast, and affects from that point to judge the world.

The practice which obtains amongst the Americans of fixing the standard of their judgment in
themselves alone, leads them to other habits of mind. As they perceive that they succeed in
resolving without assistance all the little difficulties which their practical life presents,
they readily conclude that everything in the world may be explained, and that nothing in it
transcends the limits of the understanding. Thus they fall to denying what they cannot comprehend;
which leaves them but little faith for whatever is extraordinary, and an almost insurmountable
distaste for whatever is supernatural. As it is on their own testimony that they are accustomed
to rely, they like to discern the object which engages their attention with extreme clearness;
they therefore strip off as much as possible all that covers it, they rid themselves of whatever
separates them from it, they remove whatever conceals it from sight, in order to view it more
closely and in the broad light of day. This disposition of the mind soon leads them to contemn
forms, which they regard as useless and inconvenient veils placed between them and the truth.

The Americans then have not required to extract their philosophical method from books; they
have found it in themselves. The same thing may be remarked in what has taken place in Europe.
This same method has only been established and made popular in Europe in proportion as the
condition of society has become more equal, and men have grown more like each other. Let us
consider for a moment the connection of the periods in which this change may be traced. In
the sixteenth century the Reformers subjected some of the dogmas of the ancient faith to the
scrutiny of private judgment; but they still withheld from it the judgment of all the rest.
In the seventeenth century, Bacon in the natural sciences, and Descartes in the study of philosophy
in the strict sense of the term, abolished recognized formulas, destroyed the empire of tradition,
and overthrew the authority of the schools. The philosophers of the eighteenth century, generalizing
at length the same principle, undertook to submit to the private judgment of each man all the
objects of his belief.

Who does not perceive that Luther, Descartes, and Voltaire employed the same method, and that
they differed only in the greater or less use which they professed should be made of it? Why
did the Reformers confine themselves so closely within the circle of religious ideas? Why did
Descartes, choosing only to apply his method to certain matters, though he had made it fit
to be applied to all, declare that men might judge for themselves in matters philosophical
but not in matters political? How happened it that in the eighteenth century those general
applications were all at once drawn from this same method, which Descartes and his predecessors
had either not perceived or had rejected? To what, lastly, is the fact to be attributed, that
at this period the method we are speaking of suddenly emerged from the schools, to penetrate
into society and become the common standard of intelligence; and that, after it had become
popular among the French, it has been ostensibly adopted or secretly followed by all the nations
of Europe?

The philosophical method here designated may have been engendered in the sixteenth century--it
may have been more accurately defined and more extensively applied in the seventeenth; but
neither in the one nor in the other could it be commonly adopted. Political laws, the condition
of society, and the habits of mind which are derived from these causes, were as yet opposed
to it. It was discovered at a time when men were beginning to equalize and assimilate their
conditions. It could only be generally followed in ages when those conditions had at length
become nearly equal, and men nearly alike.

The philosophical method of the eighteenth century is then not only French, but it is democratic;
and this explains why it was so readily admitted throughout Europe, where it has contributed
so powerfully to change the face of society. It is not because the French have changed their
former opinions, and altered their former manners, that they have convulsed the world; but
because they were the first to generalize and bring to light a philosophical method, by the
assistance of which it became easy to attack all that was old, and to open a path to all that
was new.

If it be asked why, at the present day, this same method is more rigorously followed and more
frequently applied by the French than by the Americans, although the principle of equality
be no less complete, and of more ancient date, amongst the latter people, the fact may be attributed
to two circumstances, which it is essential to have clearly understood in the first instance.
It must never be forgotten that religion gave birth to Anglo-American society. In the United
States religion is therefore commingled with all the habits of the nation and all the feelings
of patriotism; whence it derives a peculiar force. To this powerful reason another of no less
intensity may be added: in American religion has, as it were, laid down its own limits. Religious
institutions have remained wholly distinct from political institutions, so that former laws
have been easily changed whilst former belief has remained unshaken. Christianity has therefore
retained a strong hold on the public mind in America; and, I would more particularly remark,
that its sway is not only that of a philosophical doctrine which has been adopted upon inquiry,
but of a religion which is believed without discussion. In the United States Christian sects
are infinitely diversified and perpetually modified; but Christianity itself is a fact so irresistibly
established, that no one undertakes either to attack or to defend it. The Americans, having
admitted the principal doctrines of the Christian religion without inquiry, are obliged to
accept in like manner a great number of moral truths originating in it and connected with it.
Hence the activity of individual analysis is restrained within narrow limits, and many of the
most important of human opinions are removed from the range of its influence.

The second circumstance to which I have alluded is the following: the social condition and
the constitution of the Americans are democratic, but they have not had a democratic revolution.
They arrived upon the soil they occupy in nearly the condition in which we see them at the
present day; and this is of very considerable importance.

There are no revolutions which do not shake existing belief, enervate authority, and throw
doubts over commonly received ideas. The effect of all revolutions is therefore, more or less,
to surrender men to their own guidance, and to open to the mind of every man a void and almost
unlimited range of speculation. When equality of conditions succeeds a protracted conflict
between the different classes of which the elder society was composed, envy, hatred, and uncharitableness,
pride, and exaggerated self-confidence are apt to seize upon the human heart, and plant their
sway there for a time. This, independently of equality itself, tends powerfully to divide men--to
lead them to mistrust the judgment of others, and to seek the light of truth nowhere but in
their own understandings. Everyone then attempts to be his own sufficient guide, and makes
it his boast to form his own opinions on all subjects. Men are no longer bound together by
ideas, but by interests; and it would seem as if human opinions were reduced to a sort of intellectual
dust, scattered on every side, unable to collect, unable to cohere.

Thus, that independence of mind which equality supposes to exist, is never so great, nor ever
appears so excessive, as at the time when equality is beginning to establish itself, and in
the course of that painful labor by which it is established. That sort of intellectual freedom
which equality may give ought, therefore, to be very carefully distinguished from the anarchy
which revolution brings. Each of these two things must be severally considered, in order not
to conceive exaggerated hopes or fears of the future.

I believe that the men who will live under the new forms of society will make frequent use
of their private judgment; but I am far from thinking that they will often abuse it. This is
attributable to a cause of more general application to all democratic countries, and which,
in the long run, must needs restrain in them the independence of individual speculation within
fixed, and sometimes narrow, limits. I shall proceed to point out this cause in the next chapter.

Chapter II: Of The Principal Source Of Belief Among Democratic Nations

At different periods dogmatical belief is more or less abundant. It arises in different ways,
and it may change its object or its form; but under no circumstances will dogmatical belief
cease to exist, or, in other words, men will never cease to entertain some implicit opinions
without trying them by actual discussion. If everyone undertook to form his own opinions and
to seek for truth by isolated paths struck out by himself alone, it is not to be supposed that
any considerable number of men would ever unite in any common belief. But obviously without
such common belief no society can prosper--say rather no society can subsist; for without ideas
held in common, there is no common action, and without common action, there may still be men,
but there is no social body. In order that society should exist, and, a fortiori, that a society
should prosper, it is required that all the minds of the citizens should be rallied and held
together by certain predominant ideas; and this cannot be the case, unless each of them sometimes
draws his opinions from the common source, and consents to accept certain matters of belief
at the hands of the community.

If I now consider man in his isolated capacity, I find that dogmatical belief is not less indispensable
to him in order to live alone, than it is to enable him to co-operate with his fellow-creatures.
If man were forced to demonstrate to himself all the truths of which he makes daily use, his
task would never end. He would exhaust his strength in preparatory exercises, without advancing
beyond them. As, from the shortness of his life, he has not the time, nor, from the limits
of his intelligence, the capacity, to accomplish this, he is reduced to take upon trust a number
of facts and opinions which he has not had either the time or the power to verify himself,
but which men of greater ability have sought out, or which the world adopts. On this groundwork
he raises for himself the structure of his own thoughts; nor is he led to proceed in this manner
by choice so much as he is constrained by the inflexible law of his condition. There is no
philosopher of such great parts in the world, but that he believes a million of things on the
faith of other people, and supposes a great many more truths than he demonstrates. This is
not only necessary but desirable. A man who should undertake to inquire into everything for
himself, could devote to each thing but little time and attention. His task would keep his
mind in perpetual unrest, which would prevent him from penetrating to the depth of any truth,
or of grappling his mind indissolubly to any conviction. His intellect would be at once independent
and powerless. He must therefore make his choice from amongst the various objects of human
belief, and he must adopt many opinions without discussion, in order to search the better into
that smaller number which he sets apart for investigation. It is true that whoever receives
an opinion on the word of another, does so far enslave his mind; but it is a salutary servitude
which allows him to make a good use of freedom.

A principle of authority must then always occur, under all circumstances, in some part or other
of the moral and intellectual world. Its place is variable, but a place it necessarily has.
The independence of individual minds may be greater, or it may be less: unbounded it cannot
be. Thus the question is, not to know whether any intellectual authority exists in the ages
of democracy, but simply where it resides and by what standard it is to be measured.

I have shown in the preceding chapter how the equality of conditions leads men to entertain
a sort of instinctive incredulity of the supernatural, and a very lofty and often exaggerated
opinion of the human understanding. The men who live at a period of social equality are not
therefore easily led to place that intellectual authority to which they bow either beyond or
above humanity. They commonly seek for the sources of truth in themselves, or in those who
are like themselves. This would be enough to prove that at such periods no new religion could
be established, and that all schemes for such a purpose would be not only impious but absurd
and irrational. It may be foreseen that a democratic people will not easily give credence to
divine missions; that they will turn modern prophets to a ready jest; and they that will seek
to discover the chief arbiter of their belief within, and not beyond, the limits of their kind.

When the ranks of society are unequal, and men unlike each other in condition, there are some
individuals invested with all the power of superior intelligence, learning, and enlightenment,
whilst the multitude is sunk in ignorance and prejudice. Men living at these aristocratic periods
are therefore naturally induced to shape their opinions by the superior standard of a person
or a class of persons, whilst they are averse to recognize the infallibility of the mass of
the people.

The contrary takes place in ages of equality. The nearer the citizens are drawn to the common
level of an equal and similar condition, the less prone does each man become to place implicit
faith in a certain man or a certain class of men. But his readiness to believe the multitude
increases, and opinion is more than ever mistress of the world. Not only is common opinion
the only guide which private judgment retains amongst a democratic people, but amongst such
a people it possesses a power infinitely beyond what it has elsewhere. At periods of equality
men have no faith in one another, by reason of their common resemblance; but this very resemblance
gives them almost unbounded confidence in the judgment of the public; for it would not seem
probable, as they are all endowed with equal means of judging, but that the greater truth should
go with the greater number.

When the inhabitant of a democratic country compares himself individually with all those about
him, he feels with pride that he is the equal of any one of them; but when he comes to survey
the totality of his fellows, and to place himself in contrast to so huge a body, he is instantly
overwhelmed by the sense of his own insignificance and weakness. The same equality which renders
him independent of each of his fellow-citizens taken severally, exposes him alone and unprotected
to the influence of the greater number. The public has therefore among a democratic people
a singular power, of which aristocratic nations could never so much as conceive an idea; for
it does not persuade to certain opinions, but it enforces them, and infuses them into the faculties
by a sort of enormous pressure of the minds of all upon the reason of each.

In the United States the majority undertakes to supply a multitude of ready-made opinions for
the use of individuals, who are thus relieved from the necessity of forming opinions of their
own. Everybody there adopts great numbers of theories, on philosophy, morals, and politics,
without inquiry, upon public trust; and if we look to it very narrowly, it will be perceived
that religion herself holds her sway there, much less as a doctrine of revelation than as a
commonly received opinion. The fact that the political laws of the Americans are such that
the majority rules the community with sovereign sway, materially increases the power which
that majority naturally exercises over the mind. For nothing is more customary in man than
to recognize superior wisdom in the person of his oppressor. This political omnipotence of
the majority in the United States doubtless augments the influence which public opinion would
obtain without it over the mind of each member of the community; but the foundations of that
influence do not rest upon it. They must be sought for in the principle of equality itself,
not in the more or less popular institutions which men living under that condition may give
themselves. The intellectual dominion of the greater number would probably be less absolute
amongst a democratic people governed by a king than in the sphere of a pure democracy, but
it will always be extremely absolute; and by whatever political laws men are governed in the
ages of equality, it may be foreseen that faith in public opinion will become a species of
religion there, and the majority its ministering prophet.

Thus intellectual authority will be different, but it will not be diminished; and far from
thinking that it will disappear, I augur that it may readily acquire too much preponderance,
and confine the action of private judgment within narrower limits than are suited either to
the greatness or the happiness of the human race. In the principle of equality I very clearly
discern two tendencies; the one leading the mind of every man to untried thoughts, the other
inclined to prohibit him from thinking at all. And I perceive how, under the dominion of certain
laws, democracy would extinguish that liberty of the mind to which a democratic social condition
is favorable; so that, after having broken all the bondage once imposed on it by ranks or by
men, the human mind would be closely fettered to the general will of the greatest number.

If the absolute power of the majority were to be substituted by democratic nations, for all
the different powers which checked or retarded overmuch the energy of individual minds, the
evil would only have changed its symptoms. Men would not have found the means of independent
life; they would simply have invented (no easy task) a new dress for servitude. There is--and
I cannot repeat it too often--there is in this matter for profound reflection for those who
look on freedom as a holy thing, and who hate not only the despot, but despotism. For myself,
when I feel the hand of power lie heavy on my brow, I care but little to know who oppresses
me; and I am not the more disposed to pass beneath the yoke, because it is held out to me by
the arms of a million of men.

Chapter III: Why The Americans Display More Readiness And More Taste For General Ideas Than
Their Forefathers, The English.

The Deity does not regard the human race collectively. He surveys at one glance and severally
all the beings of whom mankind is composed, and he discerns in each man the resemblances which
assimilate him to all his fellows, and the differences which distinguish him from them. God,
therefore, stands in no need of general ideas; that is to say, he is never sensible of the
necessity of collecting a considerable number of analogous objects under the same form for
greater convenience in thinking. Such is, however, not the case with man. If the human mind
were to attempt to examine and pass a judgment on all the individual cases before it, the immensity
of detail would soon lead it astray and bewilder its discernment: in this strait, man has recourse
to an imperfect but necessary expedient, which at once assists and demonstrates his weakness.
Having superficially considered a certain number of objects, and remarked their resemblance,
he assigns to them a common name, sets them apart, and proceeds onwards.

General ideas are no proof of the strength, but rather of the insufficiency of the human intellect;
for there are in nature no beings exactly alike, no things precisely identical, nor any rules
indiscriminately and alike applicable to several objects at once. The chief merit of general
ideas is, that they enable the human mind to pass a rapid judgment on a great many objects
at once; but, on the other hand, the notions they convey are never otherwise than incomplete,
and they always cause the mind to lose as much in accuracy as it gains in comprehensiveness.
As social bodies advance in civilization, they acquire the knowledge of new facts, and they
daily lay hold almost unconsciously of some particular truths. The more truths of this kind
a man apprehends, the more general ideas is he naturally led to conceive. A multitude of particular
facts cannot be seen separately, without at last discovering the common tie which connects
them. Several individuals lead to the perception of the species; several species to that of
the genus. Hence the habit and the taste for general ideas will always be greatest amongst
a people of ancient cultivation and extensive knowledge.

But there are other reasons which impel men to generalize their ideas, or which restrain them
from it.

The Americans are much more addicted to the use of general ideas than the English, and entertain
a much greater relish for them: this appears very singular at first sight, when it is remembered
that the two nations have the same origin, that they lived for centuries under the same laws,
and that they still incessantly interchange their opinions and their manners. This contrast
becomes much more striking still, if we fix our eyes on our own part of the world, and compare
together the two most enlightened nations which inhabit it. It would seem as if the mind of
the English could only tear itself reluctantly and painfully away from the observation of particular
facts, to rise from them to their causes; and that it only generalizes in spite of itself.
Amongst the French, on the contrary, the taste for general ideas would seem to have grown to
so ardent a passion, that it must be satisfied on every occasion. I am informed, every morning
when I wake, that some general and eternal law has just been discovered, which I never heard
mentioned before. There is not a mediocre scribbler who does not try his hand at discovering
truths applicable to a great kingdom, and who is very ill pleased with himself if he does not
succeed in compressing the human race into the compass of an article. So great a dissimilarity
between two very enlightened nations surprises me. If I again turn my attention to England,
and observe the events which have occurred there in the last half-century, I think I may affirm
that a taste for general ideas increases in that country in proportion as its ancient constitution
is weakened.

The state of civilization is therefore insufficient by itself to explain what suggests to the
human mind the love of general ideas, or diverts it from them. When the conditions of men are
very unequal, and inequality itself is the permanent state of society, individual men gradually
become so dissimilar that each class assumes the aspect of a distinct race: only one of these
classes is ever in view at the same instant; and losing sight of that general tie which binds
them all within the vast bosom of mankind, the observation invariably rests not on man, but
on certain men. Those who live in this aristocratic state of society never, therefore, conceive
very general ideas respecting themselves, and that is enough to imbue them with an habitual
distrust of such ideas, and an instinctive aversion of them. He, on the contrary, who inhabits
a democratic country, sees around him, one very hand, men differing but little from each other;
he cannot turn his mind to any one portion of mankind, without expanding and dilating his thought
till it embrace the whole. All the truths which are applicable to himself, appear to him equally
and similarly applicable to each of his fellow-citizens and fellow-men. Having contracted the
habit of generalizing his ideas in the study which engages him most, and interests him more
than others, he transfers the same habit to all his pursuits; and thus it is that the craving
to discover general laws in everything, to include a great number of objects under the same
formula, and to explain a mass of facts by a single cause, becomes an ardent, and sometimes
an undiscerning, passion in the human mind.

Nothing shows the truth of this proposition more clearly than the opinions of the ancients
respecting their slaves. The most profound and capacious minds of Rome and Greece were never
able to reach the idea, at once so general and so simple, of the common likeness of men, and
of the common birthright of each to freedom: they strove to prove that slavery was in the order
of nature, and that it would always exist. Nay, more, everything shows that those of the ancients
who had passed from the servile to the free condition, many of whom have left us excellent
writings, did themselves regard servitude in no other light.

All the great writers of antiquity belonged to the aristocracy of masters, or at least they
saw that aristocracy established and uncontested before their eyes. Their mind, after it had
expanded itself in several directions, was barred from further progress in this one; and the
advent of Jesus Christ upon earth was required to teach that all the members of the human race
are by nature equal and alike.

In the ages of equality all men are independent of each other, isolated and weak. The movements
of the multitude are not permanently guided by the will of any individuals; at such times humanity
seems always to advance of itself. In order, therefore, to explain what is passing in the world,
man is driven to seek for some great causes, which, acting in the same manner on all our fellow-creatures,
thus impel them all involuntarily to pursue the same track. This again naturally leads the
human mind to conceive general ideas, and superinduces a taste for them.

I have already shown in what way the equality of conditions leads every man to investigate
truths for himself. It may readily be perceived that a method of this kind must insensibly
beget a tendency to general ideas in the human mind. When I repudiate the traditions of rank,
profession, and birth; when I escape from the authority of example, to seek out, by the single
effort of my reason, the path to be followed, I am inclined to derive the motives of my opinions
from human nature itself; which leads me necessarily, and almost unconsciously, to adopt a
great number of very general notions.

All that I have here said explains the reasons for which the English display much less readiness
and taste or the generalization of ideas than their American progeny, and still less again
than their French neighbors; and likewise the reason for which the English of the present day
display more of these qualities than their forefathers did. The English have long been a very
enlightened and a very aristocratic nation; their enlightened condition urged them constantly
to generalize, and their aristocratic habits confined them to particularize. Hence arose that
philosophy, at once bold and timid, broad and narrow, which has hitherto prevailed in England,
and which still obstructs and stagnates in so many minds in that country.

Independently of the causes I have pointed out in what goes before, others may be discerned
less apparent, but no less efficacious, which engender amongst almost every democratic people
a taste, and frequently a passion, for general ideas. An accurate distinction must be taken
between ideas of this kind. Some are the result of slow, minute, and conscientious labor of
the mind, and these extend the sphere of human knowledge; others spring up at once from the
first rapid exercise of the wits, and beget none but very superficial and very uncertain notions.
Men who live in ages of equality have a great deal of curiosity and very little leisure; their
life is so practical, so confused, so excited, so active, that but little time remains to them
for thought. Such men are prone to general ideas because they spare them the trouble of studying
particulars; they contain, if I may so speak, a great deal in a little compass, and give, in
a little time, a great return. If then, upon a brief and inattentive investigation, a common
relation is thought to be detected between certain obtects, inquiry is not pushed any further;
and without examining in detail how far these different objects differ or agree, they are hastily
arranged under one formulary, in order to pass to another subject.

One of the distinguishing characteristics of a democratic period is the taste all men have
at such ties for easy success and present enjoyment. This occurs in the pursuits of the intellect
as well as in all others. Most of those who live at a time of equality are full of an ambition
at once aspiring and relaxed: they would fain succeed brilliantly and at once, but they would
be dispensed from great efforts to obtain success. These conflicting tendencies lead straight
to the research of general ideas, by aid of which they flatter themselves that they can figure
very importantly at a small expense, and draw the attention of the public with very little
trouble. And I know not whether they be wrong in thinking thus. For their readers are as much
averse to investigating anything to the bottom as they can be themselves; and what is generally
sought in the productions of the mind is easy pleasure and information without labor.

If aristocratic nations do not make sufficient use of general ideas, and frequently treat them
with inconsiderate disdain, it is true, on the other hand, that a democratic people is ever
ready to carry ideas of this kind to excess, and to espouse the with injudicious warmth.

Chapter IV: Why The Americans Have Never Been So Eager As The French For General Ideas In Political
Matters

I observed in the last chapter, that the Americans show a less decided taste for general ideas
than the French; this is more especially true in political matters. Although the Americans
infuse into their legislation infinitely more general ideas than the English, and although
they pay much more attention than the latter people to the adjustment of the practice of affairs
to theory, no political bodies in the United States have ever shown so warm an attachment to
general ideas as the Constituent Assembly and the Convention in France. At no time has the
American people laid hold on ideas of this kind with the passionate energy of the French people
in the eighteenth century, or displayed the same blind confidence in the value and absolute
truth of any theory. This difference between the Americans and the French originates in several
causes, but principally in the following one. The Americans form a democratic people, which
has always itself directed public affairs. The French are a democratic people, who, for a long
time, could only speculate on the best manner of conducting them. The social condition of France
led that people to conceive very general ideas on the subject of government, whilst its political
constitution prevented it from correcting those ideas by experiment, and from gradually detecting
their insufficiency; whereas in America the two things constantly balance and correct each other.

It may seem, at first sight, that this is very much opposed to what I have said before, that
democratic nations derive their love of theory from the excitement of their active life. A
more attentive examination will show that there is nothing contradictory in the proposition.
Men living in democratic countries eagerly lay hold of general ideas because they have but
little leisure, and because these ideas spare them the trouble of studying particulars. This
is true; but it is only to be understood to apply to those matters which are not the necessary
and habitual subjects of their thoughts. Mercantile men will take up very eagerly, and without
any very close scrutiny, all the general ideas on philosophy, politics, science, or the arts,
which may be presented to them; but for such as relate to commerce, they will not receive them
without inquiry, or adopt them without reserve. The same thing applies to statesmen with regard
to general ideas in politics. If, then, there be a subject upon which a democratic people is
peculiarly liable to abandon itself, blindly and extravagantly, to general ideas, the best
corrective that can be used will be to make that subject a part of the daily practical occupation
of that people. The people will then be compelled to enter upon its details, and the details
will teach them the weak points of the theory. This remedy may frequently be a painful one,
but its effect is certain.

Thus it happens, that the democratic institutions which compel every citizen to take a practical
part in the government, moderate that excessive taste for general theories in politics which
the principle of equality suggests.

Chapter V: Of The Manner In Which Religion In The United States Avails Itself Of Democratic
Tendencies

I have laid it down in a preceding chapter that men cannot do without dogmatical belief; and
even that it is very much to be desired that such belief should exist amongst them. I now add,
that of all the kinds of dogmatical belief the most desirable appears to me to be dogmatical
belief in matters of religion; and this is a very clear inference, even from no higher consideration
than the interests of this world. There is hardly any human action, however particular a character
be assigned to it, which does not originate in some very general idea men have conceived of
the Deity, of his relation to mankind, of the nature of their own souls, and of their duties
to their fellow-creatures. Nor can anything prevent these ideas from being the common spring
from which everything else emanates. Men are therefore immeasurably interested in acquiring
fixed ideas of God, of the soul, and of their common duties to their Creator and to their fellow-men;
for doubt on these first principles would abandon all their actions to the impulse of chance,
and would condemn them to live, to a certain extent, powerless and undisciplined.

This is then the subject on which it is most important for each of us to entertain fixed ideas;
and unhappily it is also the subject on which it is most difficult for each of us, left to
himself, to settle his opinions by the sole force of his reason. None but minds singularly
free from the ordinary anxieties of life--minds at once penetrating, subtle, and trained by
thinking--can even with the assistance of much time and care, sound the depth of these most
necessary truths. And, indeed, we see that these philosophers are themselves almost always
enshrouded in uncertainties; that at every step the natural light which illuminates their path
grows dimmer and less secure; and that, in spite of all their efforts, they have as yet only
discovered a small number of conflicting notions, on which the mind of man has been tossed
about for thousands of years, without either laying a firmer grasp on truth, or finding novelty
even in its errors. Studies of this nature are far above the average capacity of men; and even
if the majority of mankind were capable of such pursuits, it is evident that leisure to cultivate
them would still be wanting. Fixed ideas of God and human nature are indispensable to the daily
practice of men's lives; but the practice of their lives prevents them from acquiring such ideas.

The difficulty appears to me to be without a parallel. Amongst the sciences there are some
which are useful to the mass of mankind, and which are within its reach; others can only be
approached by the few, and are not cultivated by the many, who require nothing beyond their
more remote applications: but the daily practice of the science I speak of is indispensable
to all, although the study of it is inaccessible to the far greater number.

General ideas respecting God and human nature are therefore the ideas above all others which
it is most suitable to withdraw from the habitual action of private judgment, and in which
there is most to gain and least to lose by recognizing a principle of authority. The first
object and one of the principal advantages of religions, is to furnish to each of these fundamental
questions a solution which is at once clear, precise, intelligible to the mass of mankind,
and lasting. There are religions which are very false and very absurd; but it may be affirmed,
that any religion which remains within the circle I have just traced, without aspiring to go
beyond it (as many religions have attempted to do, for the purpose of enclosing on every side
the free progress of the human mind), imposes a salutary restraint on the intellect; and it
must be admitted that, if it do not save men in another world, such religion is at least very
conducive to their happiness and their greatness in this. This is more especially true of men
living in free countries. When the religion of a people is destroyed, doubt gets hold of the
highest portions of the intellect, and half paralyzes all the rest of its powers. Every man
accustoms himself to entertain none but confused and changing notions on the subjects most
interesting to his fellow-creatures and himself. His opinions are ill-defended and easily abandoned:
and, despairing of ever resolving by himself the hardest problems of the destiny of man, he
ignobly submits to think no more about them. Such a condition cannot but enervate the soul,
relax the springs of the will, and prepare a people for servitude. Nor does it only happen,
in such a case, that they allow their freedom to be wrested from them; they frequently themselves
surrender it. When there is no longer any principle of authority in religion any more than
in politics, men are speedily frightened at the aspect of this unbounded independence. The
constant agitation of all surrounding things alarms and exhausts them. As everything is at
sea in the sphere of the intellect, they determine at least that the mechanism of society should
be firm and fixed; and as they cannot resume their ancient belief, they assume a master.

For my own part, I doubt whether man can ever support at the same time complete religious independence
and entire public freedom. And I am inclined to think, that if faith be wanting in him, he
must serve; and if he be free, he must believe.

Perhaps, however, this great utility of religions is still more obvious amongst nations where
equality of conditions prevails than amongst others. It must be acknowledged that equality,
which brings great benefits into the world, nevertheless suggests to men (as will be shown
hereafter) some very dangerous propensities. It tends to isolate them from each other, to concentrate
every man's attention upon himself; and it lays open the soul to an inordinate love of material
gratification. The greatest advantage of religion is to inspire diametrically contrary principles.
There is no religion which does not place the object of man's desires above and beyond the
treasures of earth, and which does not naturally raise his soul to regions far above those
of the senses. Nor is there any which does not impose on man some sort of duties to his kind,
and thus draws him at times from the contemplation of himself. This occurs in religions the
most false and dangerous. Religious nations are therefore naturally strong on the very point
on which democratic nations are weak; which shows of what importance it is for men to preserve
their religion as their conditions become more equal.

I have neither the right nor the intention of examining the supernatural means which God employs
to infuse religious belief into the heart of man. I am at this moment considering religions
in a purely human point of view: my object is to inquire by what means they may most easily
retain their sway in the democratic ages upon which we are entering. It has been shown that,
at times of general cultivation and equality, the human mind does not consent to adopt dogmatical
opinions without reluctance, and feels their necessity acutely in spiritual matters only. This
proves, in the first place, that at such times religions ought, more cautiously than at any
other, to confine themselves within their own precincts; for in seeking to extend their power
beyond religious matters, they incur a risk of not being believed at all. The circle within
which they seek to bound the human intellect ought therefore to be carefully traced, and beyond
its verge the mind should be left in entire freedom to its own guidance. Mahommed professed
to derive from Heaven, and he has inserted in the Koran, not only a body of religious doctrines,
but political maxims, civil and criminal laws, and theories of science. The gospel, on the
contrary, only speaks of the general relations of men to God and to each other--beyond which
it inculcates and imposes no point of faith. This alone, besides a thousand other reasons,
would suffice to prove that the former of these religions will never long predominate in a
cultivated and democratic age, whilst the latter is destined to retain its sway at these as
at all other periods.

But in continuation of this branch of the subject, I find that in order for religions to maintain
their authority, humanly speaking, in democratic ages, they must not only confine themselves
strictly within the circle of spiritual matters: their power also depends very much on the
nature of the belief they inculcate, on the external forms they assume, and on the obligations
they impose. The preceding observation, that equality leads men to very general and very extensive
notions, is principally to be understood as applied to the question of religion. Men living
in a similar and equal condition in the world readily conceive the idea of the one God, governing
every man by the same laws, and granting to every man future happiness on the same conditions.
The idea of the unity of mankind constantly leads them back to the idea of the unity of the
Creator; whilst, on the contrary, in a state of society where men are broken up into very unequal
ranks, they are apt to devise as many deities as there are nations, castes, classes, or families,
and to trace a thousand private roads to heaven.

It cannot be denied that Christianity itself has felt, to a certain extent, the influence which
social and political conditions exercise on religious opinions. At the epoch at which the Christian
religion appeared upon earth, Providence, by whom the world was doubtless prepared for its
coming, had gathered a large portion of the human race, like an immense flock, under the sceptre
of the Caesars. The men of whom this multitude was composed were distinguished by numerous
differences; but they had thus much in common, that they all obeyed the same laws, and that
every subject was so weak and insignificant in relation to the imperial potentate, that all
appeared equal when their condition was contrasted with his. This novel and peculiar state
of mankind necessarily predisposed men to listen to the general truths which Christianity teaches,
and may serve to explain the facility and rapidity with which they then penetrated into the
human mind. The counterpart of this state of things was exhibited after the destruction of
the empire. The Roman world being then as it were shattered into a thousand fragments, each
nation resumed its pristine individuality. An infinite scale of ranks very soon grew up in
the bosom of these nations; the different races were more sharply defined, and each nation
was divided by castes into several peoples. In the midst of this common effort, which seemed
to be urging human society to the greatest conceivable amount of voluntary subdivision, Christianity
did not lose sight of the leading general ideas which it had brought into the world. But it
appeared, nevertheless, to lend itself, as much as was possible, to those new tendencies to
which the fractional distribution of mankind had given birth. Men continued to worship an only
God, the Creator and Preserver of all things; but every people, every city, and, so to speak,
every man, thought to obtain some distinct privilege, and win the favor of an especial patron
at the foot of the Throne of Grace. Unable to subdivide the Deity, they multiplied and improperly
enhanced the importance of the divine agents. The homage due to saints and angels became an
almost idolatrous worship amongst the majority of the Christian world; and apprehensions might
be entertained for a moment lest the religion of Christ should retrograde towards the superstitions
which it had subdued. It seems evident, that the more the barriers are removed which separate
nation from nation amongst mankind, and citizen from citizen amongst a people, the stronger
is the bent of the human mind, as if by its own impulse, towards the idea of an only and all-powerful
Being, dispensing equal laws in the same manner to every man. In democratic ages, then, it
is more particularly important not to allow the homage paid to secondary agents to be confounded
with the worship due to the Creator alone.

Another truth is no less clear--that religions ought to assume fewer external observances in
democratic periods than at any others. In speaking of philosophical method among the Americans,
I have shown that nothing is more repugnant to the human mind in an age of equality than the
idea of subjection to forms. Men living at such times are impatient of figures; to their eyes
symbols appear to be the puerile artifice which is used to conceal or to set off truths, which
should more naturally be bared to the light of open day: they are unmoved by ceremonial observances,
and they are predisposed to attach a secondary importance to the details of public worship.
Those whose care it is to regulate the external forms of religion in a democratic age should
pay a close attention to these natural propensities of the human mind, in order not unnecessarily
to run counter to them. I firmly believe in the necessity of forms, which fix the human mind
in the contemplation of abstract truths, and stimulate its ardor in the pursuit of them, whilst
they invigorate its powers of retaining them steadfastly. Nor do I suppose that it is possible
to maintain a religion without external observances; but, on the other hand, I am persuaded
that, in the ages upon which we are entering, it would be peculiarly dangerous to multiply
them beyond measure; and that they ought rather to be limited to as much as is absolutely necessary
to perpetuate the doctrine itself, which is the substance of religions of which the ritual
is only the form. *a A religion which should become more minute, more peremptory, and more
surcharged with small observances at a time in which men are becoming more equal, would soon
find itself reduced to a band of fanatical zealots in the midst of an infidel people.

[Footnote a: In all religions there are some ceremonies which are inherent in the substance
of the faith itself, and in these nothing should, on any account, be changed. This is especially
the case with Roman Catholicism, in which the doctrine and the form are frequently so closely
united as to form one point of belief.]

I anticipate the objection, that as all religions have general and eternal truths for their
object, they cannot thus shape themselves to the shifting spirit of every age without forfeiting
their claim to certainty in the eyes of mankind. To this I reply again, that the principal
opinions which constitute belief, and which theologians call articles of faith, must be very
carefully distinguished from the accessories connected with them. Religions are obliged to
hold fast to the former, whatever be the peculiar spirit of the age; but they should take good
care not to bind themselves in the same manner to the latter at a time when everything is in
transition, and when the mind, accustomed to the moving pageant of human affairs, reluctantly
endures the attempt to fix it to any given point. The fixity of external and secondary things
can only afford a chance of duration when civil society is itself fixed; under any other circumstances
I hold it to be perilous.

We shall have occasion to see that, of all the passions which originate in, or are fostered
by, equality, there is one which it renders peculiarly intense, and which it infuses at the
same time into the heart of every man: I mean the love of well-being. The taste for well-being
is the prominent and indelible feature of democratic ages. It may be believed that a religion
which should undertake to destroy so deep seated a passion, would meet its own destruction
thence in the end; and if it attempted to wean men entirely from the contemplation of the good
things of this world, in order to devote their faculties exclusively to the thought of another,
it may be foreseen that the soul would at length escape from its grasp, to plunge into the
exclusive enjoyment of present and material pleasures. The chief concern of religions is to
purify, to regulate, and to restrain the excessive and exclusive taste for well-being which
men feel at periods of equality; but they would err in attempting to control it completely
or to eradicate it. They will not succeed in curing men of the love of riches: but they may
still persuade men to enrich themselves by none but honest means.

This brings me to a final consideration, which comprises, as it were, all the others. The more
the conditions of men are equalized and assimilated to each other, the more important is it
for religions, whilst they carefully abstain from the daily turmoil of secular affairs, not
needlessly to run counter to the ideas which generally prevail, and the permanent interests
which exist in the mass of the people. For as public opinion grows to be more and more evidently
the first and most irresistible of existing powers, the religious principle has no external
support strong enough to enable it long to resist its attacks. This is not less true of a democratic
people, ruled by a despot, than in a republic. In ages of equality, kings may often command
obedience, but the majority always commands belief: to the majority, therefore, deference is
to be paid in whatsoever is not contrary to the faith.

I showed in my former volumes how the American clergy stand aloof from secular affairs. This
is the most obvious, but it is not the only, example of their self-restraint. In America religion
is a distinct sphere, in which the priest is sovereign, but out of which he takes care never
to go. Within its limits he is the master of the mind; beyond them, he leaves men to themselves,
and surrenders them to the independence and instability which belong to their nature and their
age. I have seen no country in which Christianity is clothed with fewer forms, figures, and
observances than in the United States; or where it presents more distinct, more simple, or
more general notions to the mind. Although the Christians of America are divided into a multitude
of sects, they all look upon their religion in the same light. This applies to Roman Catholicism
as well as to the other forms of belief. There are no Romish priests who show less taste for
the minute individual observances for extraordinary or peculiar means of salvation, or who
cling more to the spirit, and less to the letter of the law, than the Roman Catholic priests
of the United States. Nowhere is that doctrine of the Church, which prohibits the worship reserved
to God alone from being offered to the saints, more clearly inculcated or more generally followed.
Yet the Roman Catholics of America are very submissive and very sincere.

Another remark is applicable to the clergy of every communion. The American ministers of the
gospel do not attempt to draw or to fix all the thoughts of man upon the life to come; they
are willing to surrender a portion of his heart to the cares of the present; seeming to consider
the goods of this world as important, although as secondary, objects. If they take no part
themselves in productive labor, they are at least interested in its progression, and ready
to applaud its results; and whilst they never cease to point to the other world as the great
object of the hopes and fears of the believer, they do not forbid him honestly to court prosperity
in this. Far from attempting to show that these things are distinct and contrary to one another,
they study rather to find out on what point they are most nearly and closely connected.

All the American clergy know and respect the intellectual supremacy exercised by the majority;
they never sustain any but necessary conflicts with it. They take no share in the altercations
of parties, but they readily adopt the general opinions of their country and their age; and
they allow themselves to be borne away without opposition in the current of feeling and opinion
by which everything around them is carried along. They endeavor to amend their contemporaries,
but they do not quit fellowship with them. Public opinion is therefore never hostile to them;
it rather supports and protects them; and their belief owes its authority at the same time
to the strength which is its own, and to that which they borrow from the opinions of the majority.
Thus it is that, by respecting all democratic tendencies not absolutely contrary to herself,
and by making use of several of them for her own purposes, religion sustains an advantageous
struggle with that spirit of individual independence which is her most dangerous antagonist.

Chapter VI: Of The Progress Of Roman Catholicism In The United States

America is the most democratic country in the world, and it is at the same time (according
to reports worthy of belief) the country in which the Roman Catholic religion makes most progress.
At first sight this is surprising. Two things must here be accurately distinguished: equality
inclines men to wish to form their own opinions; but, on the other hand, it imbues them with
the taste and the idea of unity, simplicity, and impartiality in the power which governs society.
Men living in democratic ages are therefore very prone to shake off all religious authority;
but if they consent to subject themselves to any authority of this kind, they choose at least
that it should be single and uniform. Religious powers not radiating from a common centre are
naturally repugnant to their minds; and they almost as readily conceive that there should be
no religion, as that there should be several. At the present time, more than in any preceding
one, Roman Catholics are seen to lapse into infidelity, and Protestants to be converted to
Roman Catholicism. If the Roman Catholic faith be considered within the pale of the church,
it would seem to be losing ground; without that pale, to be gaining it. Nor is this circumstance
difficult of explanation. The men of our days are naturally disposed to believe; but, as soon
as they have any religion, they immediately find in themselves a latent propensity which urges
them unconsciously towards Catholicism. Many of the doctrines and the practices of the Romish
Church astonish them; but they feel a secret admiration for its discipline, and its great unity
attracts them. If Catholicism could at length withdraw itself from the political animosities
to which it has given rise, I have hardly any doubt but that the same spirit of the age, which
appears to be so opposed to it, would become so favorable as to admit of its great and sudden
advancement. One of the most ordinary weaknesses of the human intellect is to seek to reconcile
contrary principles, and to purchase peace at the expense of logic. Thus there have ever been,
and will ever be, men who, after having submitted some portion of their religious belief to
the principle of authority, will seek to exempt several other parts of their faith from its
influence, and to keep their minds floating at random between liberty and obedience. But I
am inclined to believe that the number of these thinkers will be less in democratic than in
other ages; and that our posterity will tend more and more to a single division into two parts--some
relinquishing Christianity entirely, and others returning to the bosom of the Church of Rome.

Chapter VII: Of The Cause Of A Leaning To Pantheism Amongst Democratic Nations

I shall take occasion hereafter to show under what form the preponderating taste of a democratic
people for very general ideas manifests itself in politics; but I would point out, at the present
stage of my work, its principal effect on philosophy. It cannot be denied that pantheism has
made great progress in our age. The writings of a part of Europe bear visible marks of it:
the Germans introduce it into philosophy, and the French into literature. Most of the works
of imagination published in France contain some opinions or some tinge caught from pantheistical
doctrines, or they disclose some tendency to such doctrines in their authors. This appears
to me not only to proceed from an accidental, but from a permanent cause.

When the conditions of society are becoming more equal, and each individual man becomes more
like all the rest, more weak and more insignificant, a habit grows up of ceasing to notice
the citizens to consider only the people, and of overlooking individuals to think only of their
kind. At such times the human mind seeks to embrace a multitude of different objects at once;
and it constantly strives to succeed in connecting a variety of consequences with a single
cause. The idea of unity so possesses itself of man, and is sought for by him so universally,
that if he thinks he has found it, he readily yields himself up to repose in that belief. Nor
does he content himself with the discovery that nothing is in the world but a creation and
a Creator; still embarrassed by this primary division of things, he seeks to expand and to
simplify his conception by including God and the universe in one great whole. If there be a
philosophical system which teaches that all things material and immaterial, visible and invisible,
which the world contains, are only to be considered as the several parts of an immense Being,
which alone remains unchanged amidst the continual change and ceaseless transformation of all
that constitutes it, we may readily infer that such a system, although it destroy the individuality
of man--nay, rather because it destroys that individuality--will have secret charms for men
living in democracies. All their habits of thought prepare them to conceive it, and predispose
them to adopt it. It naturally attracts and fixes their imagination; it fosters the pride,
whilst it soothes the indolence, of their minds. Amongst the different systems by whose aid
philosophy endeavors to explain the universe, I believe pantheism to be one of those most fitted
to seduce the human mind in democratic ages. Against it all who abide in their attachment to
the true greatness of man should struggle and combine.

Chapter VIII: The Principle Of Equality Suggests To The Americans The Idea Of The Indefinite
Perfectibility Of Man

Equality suggests to the human mind several ideas which would not have originated from any
other source, and it modifies almost all those previously entertained. I take as an example
the idea of human perfectibility, because it is one of the principal notions that the intellect
can conceive, and because it constitutes of itself a great philosophical theory, which is every
instant to be traced by its consequences in the practice of human affairs. Although man has
many points of resemblance with the brute creation, one characteristic is peculiar to himself--he
improves: they are incapable of improvement. Mankind could not fail to discover this difference
from its earliest period. The idea of perfectibility is therefore as old as the world; equality
did not give birth to it, although it has imparted to it a novel character.

When the citizens of a community are classed according to their rank, their profession, or
their birth, and when all men are constrained to follow the career which happens to open before
them, everyone thinks that the utmost limits of human power are to be discerned in proximity
to himself, and none seeks any longer to resist the inevitable law of his destiny. Not indeed
that an aristocratic people absolutely contests man's faculty of self-improvement, but they
do not hold it to be indefinite; amelioration they conceive, but not change: they imagine that
the future condition of society may be better, but not essentially different; and whilst they
admit that mankind has made vast strides in improvement, and may still have some to make, they
assign to it beforehand certain impassable limits. Thus they do not presume that they have
arrived at the supreme good or at absolute truth (what people or what man was ever wild enough
to imagine it?) but they cherish a persuasion that they have pretty nearly reached that degree
of greatness and knowledge which our imperfect nature admits of; and as nothing moves about
them they are willing to fancy that everything is in its fit place. Then it is that the legislator
affects to lay down eternal laws; that kings and nations will raise none but imperishable monuments;
and that the present generation undertakes to spare generations to come the care of regulating
their destinies.

In proportion as castes disappear and the classes of society approximate--as manners, customs,
and laws vary, from the tumultuous intercourse of men--as new facts arise--as new truths are
brought to light--as ancient opinions are dissipated, and others take their place--the image
of an ideal perfection, forever on the wing, presents itself to the human mind. Continual changes
are then every instant occurring under the observation of every man: the position of some is
rendered worse; and he learns but too well, that no people and no individual, how enlightened
soever they may be, can lay claim to infallibility;--the condition of others is improved; whence
he infers that man is endowed with an indefinite faculty of improvement. His reverses teach
him that none may hope to have discovered absolute good--his success stimulates him to the
never-ending pursuit of it. Thus, forever seeking--forever falling, to rise again--often disappointed,
but not discouraged--he tends unceasingly towards that unmeasured greatness so indistinctly
visible at the end of the long track which humanity has yet to tread. It can hardly be believed
how many facts naturally flow from the philosophical theory of the indefinite perfectibility
of man, or how strong an influence it exercises even on men who, living entirely for the purposes
of action and not of thought, seem to conform their actions to it, without knowing anything
about it. I accost an American sailor, and I inquire why the ships of his country are built
so as to last but for a short time; he answers without hesitation that the art of navigation
is every day making such rapid progress, that the finest vessel would become almost useless
if it lasted beyond a certain number of years. In these words, which fell accidentally and
on a particular subject from a man of rude attainments, I recognize the general and systematic
idea upon which a great people directs all its concerns.

Aristocratic nations are naturally too apt to narrow the scope of human perfectibility; democratic
nations to expand it beyond compass.

Chapter IX: The Example Of The Americans Does Not Prove That A Democratic People Can Have No
Aptitude And No Taste For Science, Literature, Or Art

It must be acknowledged that amongst few of the civilized nations of our time have the higher
sciences made less progress than in the United States; and in few have great artists, fine
poets, or celebrated writers been more rare. Many Europeans, struck by this fact, have looked
upon it as a natural and inevitable result of equality; and they have supposed that if a democratic
state of society and democratic institutions were ever to prevail over the whole earth, the
human mind would gradually find its beacon-lights grow dim, and men would relapse into a period
of darkness. To reason thus is, I think, to confound several ideas which it is important to
divide and to examine separately: it is to mingle, unintentionally, what is democratic with
what is only American.

The religion professed by the first emigrants, and bequeathed by them to their descendants,
simple in its form of worship, austere and almost harsh in its principles, and hostile to external
symbols and to ceremonial pomp, is naturally unfavorable to the fine arts, and only yields
a reluctant sufferance to the pleasures of literature. The Americans are a very old and a very
enlightened people, who have fallen upon a new and unbounded country, where they may extend
themselves at pleasure, and which they may fertilize without difficulty. This state of things
is without a parallel in the history of the world. In America, then, every one finds facilities,
unknown elsewhere, for making or increasing his fortune. The spirit of gain is always on the
stretch, and the human mind, constantly diverted from the pleasures of imagination and the
labors of the intellect, is there swayed by no impulse but the pursuit of wealth. Not only
are manufacturing and commercial classes to be found in the United States, as they are in all
other countries; but what never occurred elsewhere, the whole community is simultaneously engaged
in productive industry and commerce. I am convinced that, if the Americans had been alone in
the world, with the freedom and the knowledge acquired by their forefathers, and the passions
which are their own, they would not have been slow to discover that progress cannot long be
made in the application of the sciences without cultivating the theory of them; that all the
arts are perfected by one another: and, however absorbed they might have been by the pursuit
of the principal object of their desires, they would speedily have admitted, that it is necessary
to turn aside from it occasionally, in order the better to attain it in the end.

The taste for the pleasures of the mind is moreover so natural to the heart of civilized man,
that amongst the polite nations, which are least disposed to give themselves up to these pursuits,
a certain number of citizens are always to be found who take part in them. This intellectual
craving, when once felt, would very soon have been satisfied. But at the very time when the
Americans were naturally inclined to require nothing of science but its special applications
to the useful arts and the means of rendering life comfortable, learned and literary Europe
was engaged in exploring the common sources of truth, and in improving at the same time all
that can minister to the pleasures or satisfy the wants of man. At the head of the enlightened
nations of the Old World the inhabitants of the United States more particularly distinguished
one, to which they were closely united by a common origin and by kindred habits. Amongst this
people they found distinguished men of science, artists of skill, writers of eminence, and
they were enabled to enjoy the treasures of the intellect without requiring to labor in amassing
them. I cannot consent to separate America from Europe, in spite of the ocean which intervenes.
I consider the people of the United States as that portion of the English people which is commissioned
to explore the wilds of the New World; whilst the rest of the nation, enjoying more leisure
and less harassed by the drudgery of life, may devote its energies to thought, and enlarge
in all directions the empire of the mind. The position of the Americans is therefore quite
exceptional, and it may be believed that no democratic people will ever be placed in a similar
one. Their strictly Puritanical origin--their exclusively commercial habits--even the country
they inhabit, which seems to divert their minds from the pursuit of science, literature, and
the arts--the proximity of Europe, which allows them to neglect these pursuits without relapsing
into barbarism--a thousand special causes, of which I have only been able to point out the
most important--have singularly concurred to fix the mind of the American upon purely practical
objects. His passions, his wants, his education, and everything about him seem to unite in
drawing the native of the United States earthward: his religion alone bids him turn, from time
to time, a transient and distracted glance to heaven. Let us cease then to view all democratic
nations under the mask of the American people, and let us attempt to survey them at length
with their own proper features.

It is possible to conceive a people not subdivided into any castes or scale of ranks; in which
the law, recognizing no privileges, should divide inherited property into equal shares; but
which, at the same time, should be without knowledge and without freedom. Nor is this an empty
hypothesis: a despot may find that it is his interest to render his subjects equal and to leave
them ignorant, in order more easily to keep them slaves. Not only would a democratic people
of this kind show neither aptitude nor taste for science, literature, or art, but it would
probably never arrive at the possession of them. The law of descent would of itself provide
for the destruction of fortunes at each succeeding generation; and new fortunes would be acquired
by none. The poor man, without either knowledge or freedom, would not so much as conceive the
idea of raising himself to wealth; and the rich man would allow himself to be degraded to poverty,
without a notion of self-defence. Between these two members of the community complete and invincible
equality would soon be established.

No one would then have time or taste to devote himself to the pursuits or pleasures of the
intellect; but all men would remain paralyzed by a state of common ignorance and equal servitude.
When I conceive a democratic society of this kind, I fancy myself in one of those low, close,
and gloomy abodes, where the light which breaks in from without soon faints and fades away.
A sudden heaviness overpowers me, and I grope through the surrounding darkness, to find the
aperture which will restore me to daylight and the air.

But all this is not applicable to men already enlightened who retain their freedom, after having
abolished from amongst them those peculiar and hereditary rights which perpetuated the tenure
of property in the hands of certain individuals or certain bodies. When men living in a democratic
state of society are enlightened, they readily discover that they are confined and fixed within
no limits which constrain them to take up with their present fortune. They all therefore conceive
the idea of increasing it; if they are free, they all attempt it, but all do not succeed in
the same manner. The legislature, it is true, no longer grants privileges, but they are bestowed
by nature. As natural inequality is very great, fortunes become unequal as soon as every man
exerts all his faculties to get rich. The law of descent prevents the establishment of wealthy
families; but it does not prevent the existence of wealthy individuals. It constantly brings
back the members of the community to a common level, from which they as constantly escape:
and the inequality of fortunes augments in proportion as knowledge is diffused and liberty
increased.

A sect which arose in our time, and was celebrated for its talents and its extravagance, proposed
to concentrate all property into the hands of a central power, whose function it should afterwards
be to parcel it out to individuals, according to their capacity. This would have been a method
of escaping from that complete and eternal equality which seems to threaten democratic society.
But it would be a simpler and less dangerous remedy to grant no privilege to any, giving to
all equal cultivation and equal independence, and leaving everyone to determine his own position.
Natural inequality will very soon make way for itself, and wealth will spontaneously pass into
the hands of the most capable.

Free and democratic communities, then, will always contain a considerable number of people
enjoying opulence or competency. The wealthy will not be so closely linked to each other as
the members of the former aristocratic class of society: their propensities will be different,
and they will scarcely ever enjoy leisure as secure or as complete: but they will be far more
numerous than those who belonged to that class of society could ever be. These persons will
not be strictly confined to the cares of practical life, and they will still be able, though
in different degrees, to indulge in the pursuits and pleasures of the intellect. In those pleasures
they will indulge; for if it be true that the human mind leans on one side to the narrow, the
practical, and the useful, it naturally rises on the other to the infinite, the spiritual,
and the beautiful. Physical wants confine it to the earth; but, as soon as the tie is loosened,
it will unbend itself again.

Not only will the number of those who can take an interest in the productions of the mind be
enlarged, but the taste for intellectual enjoyment will descend, step by step, even to those
who, in aristocratic societies, seem to have neither time nor ability to in indulge in them.
When hereditary wealth, the privileges of rank, and the prerogatives of birth have ceased to
be, and when every man derives his strength from himself alone, it becomes evident that the
chief cause of disparity between the fortunes of men is the mind. Whatever tends to invigorate,
to extend, or to adorn the mind, instantly rises to great value. The utility of knowledge becomes
singularly conspicuous even to the eyes of the multitude: those who have no taste for its charms
set store upon its results, and make some efforts to acquire it. In free and enlightened democratic
ages, there is nothing to separate men from each other or to retain them in their peculiar
sphere; they rise or sink with extreme rapidity. All classes live in perpetual intercourse
from their great proximity to each other. They communicate and intermingle every day--they
imitate and envy one other: this suggests to the people many ideas, notions, and desires which
it would never have entertained if the distinctions of rank had been fixed and society at rest.
In such nations the servant never considers himself as an entire stranger to the pleasures
and toils of his master, nor the poor man to those of the rich; the rural population assimilates
itself to that of the towns, and the provinces to the capital. No one easily allows himself
to be reduced to the mere material cares of life; and the humblest artisan casts at times an
eager and a furtive glance into the higher regions of the intellect. People do not read with
the same notions or in the same manner as they do in an aristocratic community; but the circle
of readers is unceasingly expanded, till it includes all the citizens.

As soon as the multitude begins to take an interest in the labors of the mind, it finds out
that to excel in some of them is a powerful method of acquiring fame, power, or wealth. The
restless ambition which equality begets instantly takes this direction as it does all others.
The number of those who cultivate science, letters, and the arts, becomes immense. The intellectual
world starts into prodigious activity: everyone endeavors to open for himself a path there,
and to draw the eyes of the public after him. Something analogous occurs to what happens in
society in the United States, politically considered. What is done is often imperfect, but
the attempts are innumerable; and, although the results of individual effort are commonly very
small, the total amount is always very large.

It is therefore not true to assert that men living in democratic ages are naturally indifferent
to science, literature, and the arts: only it must be acknowledged that they cultivate them
after their own fashion, and bring to the task their own peculiar qualifications and deficiencies.

Chapter X: Why The Americans Are More Addicted To Practical Than To Theoretical Science

If a democratic state of society and democratic institutions do not stop the career of the
human mind, they incontestably guide it in one direction in preference to another. Their effects,
thus circumscribed, are still exceedingly great; and I trust I may be pardoned if I pause for
a moment to survey them. We had occasion, in speaking of the philosophical method of the American
people, to make several remarks which must here be turned to account.

Equality begets in man the desire of judging of everything for himself: it gives him, in all
things, a taste for the tangible and the real, a contempt for tradition and for forms. These
general tendencies are principally discernible in the peculiar subject of this chapter. Those
who cultivate the sciences amongst a democratic people are always afraid of losing their way
in visionary speculation. They mistrust systems; they adhere closely to facts and the study
of facts with their own senses. As they do not easily defer to the mere name of any fellow-man,
they are never inclined to rest upon any man's authority; but, on the contrary, they are unremitting
in their efforts to point out the weaker points of their neighbors' opinions. Scientific precedents
have very little weight with them; they are never long detained by the subtilty of the schools,
nor ready to accept big words for sterling coin; they penetrate, as far as they can, into the
principal parts of the subject which engages them, and they expound them in the vernacular
tongue. Scientific pursuits then follow a freer and a safer course, but a less lofty one.

The mind may, as it appears to me, divide science into three parts. The first comprises the
most theoretical principles, and those more abstract notions whose application is either unknown
or very remote. The second is composed of those general truths which still belong to pure theory,
but lead, nevertheless, by a straight and short road to practical results. Methods of application
and means of execution make up the third. Each of these different portions of science may be
separately cultivated, although reason and experience show that none of them can prosper long,
if it be absolutely cut off from the two others.

In America the purely practical part of science is admirably understood, and careful attention
is paid to the theoretical portion which is immediately requisite to application. On this head
the Americans always display a clear, free, original, and inventive power of mind. But hardly
anyone in the United States devotes himself to the essentially theoretical and abstract portion
of human knowledge. In this respect the Americans carry to excess a tendency which is, I think,
discernible, though in a less degree, amongst all democratic nations.

Nothing is more necessary to the culture of the higher sciences, or of the more elevated departments
of science, than meditation; and nothing is less suited to meditation than the structure of
democratic society. We do not find there, as amongst an aristocratic people, one class which
clings to a state of repose because it is well off; and another which does not venture to stir
because it despairs of improving its condition. Everyone is actively in motion: some in quest
of power, others of gain. In the midst of this universal tumult--this incessant conflict of
jarring interests--this continual stride of men after fortune--where is that calm to be found
which is necessary for the deeper combinations of the intellect? How can the mind dwell upon
any single point, when everything whirls around it, and man himself is swept and beaten onwards
by the heady current which rolls all things in its course? But the permanent agitation which
subsists in the bosom of a peaceable and established democracy, must be distinguished from
the tumultuous and revolutionary movements which almost always attend the birth and growth
of democratic society. When a violent revolution occurs amongst a highly civilized people,
it cannot fail to give a sudden impulse to their feelings and their opinions. This is more
particularly true of democratic revolutions, which stir up all the classes of which a people
is composed, and beget, at the same time, inordinate ambition in the breast of every member
of the community. The French made most surprising advances in the exact sciences at the very
time at which they were finishing the destruction of the remains of their former feudal society;
yet this sudden fecundity is not to be attributed to democracy, but to the unexampled revolution
which attended its growth. What happened at that period was a special incident, and it would
be unwise to regard it as the test of a general principle. Great revolutions are not more common
amongst democratic nations than amongst others: I am even inclined to believe that they are
less so. But there prevails amongst those populations a small distressing motion--a sort of
incessant jostling of men--which annoys and disturbs the mind, without exciting or elevating
it. Men who live in democratic communities not only seldom indulge in meditation, but they
naturally entertain very little esteem for it. A democratic state of society and democratic
institutions plunge the greater part of men in constant active life; and the habits of mind
which are suited to an active life, are not always suited to a contemplative one. The man of
action is frequently obliged to content himself with the best he can get, because he would
never accomplish his purpose if he chose to carry every detail to perfection. He has perpetually
occasion to rely on ideas which he has not had leisure to search to the bottom; for he is much
more frequently aided by the opportunity of an idea than by its strict accuracy; and, in the
long run, he risks less in making use of some false principles, than in spending his time in
establishing all his principles on the basis of truth. The world is not led by long or learned
demonstrations; a rapid glance at particular incidents, the daily study of the fleeting passions
of the multitude, the accidents of the time, and the art of turning them to account, decide
all its affairs.

In the ages in which active life is the condition of almost everyone, men are therefore generally
led to attach an excessive value to the rapid bursts and superficial conceptions of the intellect;
and, on the other hand, to depreciate below their true standard its slower and deeper labors.
This opinion of the public influences the judgment of the men who cultivate the sciences; they
are persuaded that they may succeed in those pursuits without meditation, or deterred from
such pursuits as demand it.

There are several methods of studying the sciences. Amongst a multitude of men you will find
a selfish, mercantile, and trading taste for the discoveries of the mind, which must not be
confounded with that disinterested passion which is kindled in the heart of the few. A desire
to utilize knowledge is one thing; the pure desire to know is another. I do not doubt that
in a few minds and far between, an ardent, inexhaustible love of truth springs up, self-supported,
and living in ceaseless fruition without ever attaining the satisfaction which it seeks. This
ardent love it is--this proud, disinterested love of what is true--which raises men to the
abstract sources of truth, to draw their mother-knowledge thence. If Pascal had had nothing
in view but some large gain, or even if he had been stimulated by the love of fame alone, I
cannot conceive that he would ever have been able to rally all the powers of his mind, as he
did, for the better discovery of the most hidden things of the Creator. When I see him, as
it were, tear his soul from the midst of all the cares of life to devote it wholly to these
researches, and, prematurely snapping the links which bind the frame to life, die of old age
before forty, I stand amazed, and I perceive that no ordinary cause is at work to produce efforts
so extra-ordinary.

The future will prove whether these passions, at once so rare and so productive, come into
being and into growth as easily in the midst of democratic as in aristocratic communities.
For myself, I confess that I am slow to believe it. In aristocratic society, the class which
gives the tone to opinion, and has the supreme guidance of affairs, being permanently and hereditarily
placed above the multitude, naturally conceives a lofty idea of itself and of man. It loves
to invent for him noble pleasures, to carve out splendid objects for his ambition. Aristocracies
often commit very tyrannical and very inhuman actions; but they rarely entertain grovelling
thoughts; and they show a kind of haughty contempt of little pleasures, even whilst they indulge
in them. The effect is greatly to raise the general pitch of society. In aristocratic ages
vast ideas are commonly entertained of the dignity, the power, and the greatness of man. These
opinions exert their influence on those who cultivate the sciences, as well as on the rest
of the community. They facilitate the natural impulse of the mind to the highest regions of
thought, and they naturally prepare it to conceive a sublime--nay, almost a divine--love of
truth. Men of science at such periods are consequently carried away by theory; and it even
happens that they frequently conceive an inconsiderate contempt for the practical part of learning.
"Archimedes," says Plutarch, "was of so lofty a spirit, that he never condescended to write
any treatise on the manner of constructing all these engines of offence and defence. And as
he held this science of inventing and putting together engines, and all arts generally speaking
which tended to any useful end in practice, to be vile, low, and mercenary, he spent his talents
and his studious hours in writing of those things only whose beauty and subtilty had in them
no admixture of necessity." Such is the aristocratic aim of science; in democratic nations
it cannot be the same.

The greater part of the men who constitute these nations are extremely eager in the pursuit
of actual and physical gratification. As they are always dissatisfied with the position which
they occupy, and are always free to leave it, they think of nothing but the means of changing
their fortune, or of increasing it. To minds thus predisposed, every new method which leads
by a shorter road to wealth, every machine which spares labor, every instrument which diminishes
the cost of production, every discovery which facilitates pleasures or augments them, seems
to be the grandest effort of the human intellect. It is chiefly from these motives that a democratic
people addicts itself to scientific pursuits--that it understands, and that it respects them.
In aristocratic ages, science is more particularly called upon to furnish gratification to
the mind; in democracies, to the body. You may be sure that the more a nation is democratic,
enlightened, and free, the greater will be the number of these interested promoters of scientific
genius, and the more will discoveries immediately applicable to productive industry confer
gain, fame, and even power on their authors. For in democracies the working class takes a part
in public affairs; and public honors, as well as pecuniary remuneration, may be awarded to
those who deserve them. In a community thus organized it may easily be conceived that the human
mind may be led insensibly to the neglect of theory; and that it is urged, on the contrary,
with unparalleled vehemence to the applications of science, or at least to that portion of
theoretical science which is necessary to those who make such applications. In vain will some
innate propensity raise the mind towards the loftier spheres of the intellect; interest draws
it down to the middle zone. There it may develop all its energy and restless activity, there
it may engender all its wonders. These very Americans, who have not discovered one of the general
laws of mechanics, have introduced into navigation an engine which changes the aspect of the world.

Assuredly I do not content that the democratic nations of our time are destined to witness
the extinction of the transcendent luminaries of man's intelligence, nor even that no new lights
will ever start into existence. At the age at which the world has now arrived, and amongst
so many cultivated nations, perpetually excited by the fever of productive industry, the bonds
which connect the different parts of science together cannot fail to strike the observation;
and the taste for practical science itself, if it be enlightened, ought to lead men not to
neglect theory. In the midst of such numberless attempted applications of so many experiments,
repeated every day, it is almost impossible that general laws should not frequently be brought
to light; so that great discoveries would be frequent, though great inventors be rare. I believe,
moreover, in the high calling of scientific minds. If the democratic principle does not, on
the one hand, induce men to cultivate science for its own sake, on the other it enormously
increases the number of those who do cultivate it. Nor is it credible that, from amongst so
great a multitude no speculative genius should from time to time arise, inflamed by the love
of truth alone. Such a one, we may be sure, would dive into the deepest mysteries of nature,
whatever be the spirit of his country or his age. He requires no assistance in his course--enough
that he be not checked in it.

All that I mean to say is this:--permanent inequality of conditions leads men to confine themselves
to the arrogant and sterile research of abstract truths; whilst the social condition and the
institutions of democracy prepare them to seek the immediate and useful practical results of
the sciences. This tendency is natural and inevitable: it is curious to be acquainted with
it, and it may be necessary to point it out. If those who are called upon to guide the nations
of our time clearly discerned from afar off these new tendencies, which will soon be irresistible,
they would understand that, possessing education and freedom, men living in democratic ages
cannot fail to improve the industrial part of science; and that henceforward all the efforts
of the constituted authorities ought to be directed to support the highest branches of learning,
and to foster the nobler passion for science itself. In the present age the human mind must
be coerced into theoretical studies; it runs of its own accord to practical applications; and,
instead of perpetually referring it to the minute examination of secondary effects, it is well
to divert it from them sometimes, in order to raise it up to the contemplation of primary causes.
Because the civilization of ancient Rome perished in consequence of the invasion of the barbarians,
we are perhaps too apt to think that civilization cannot perish in any other manner. If the
light by which we are guided is ever extinguished, it will dwindle by degrees, and expire of
itself. By dint of close adherence to mere applications, principles would be lost sight of;
and when the principles were wholly forgotten, the methods derived from them would be ill-pursued.
New methods could no longer be invented, and men would continue to apply, without intelligence,
and without art, scientific processes no longer understood.

When Europeans first arrived in China, three hundred years ago, they found that almost all
the arts had reached a certain degree of perfection there; and they were surprised that a people
which had attained this point should not have gone beyond it. At a later period they discovered
some traces of the higher branches of science which were lost. The nation was absorbed in productive
industry: the greater part of its scientific processes had been preserved, but science itself
no longer existed there. This served to explain the strangely motionless state in which they
found the minds of this people. The Chinese, in following the track of their forefathers, had
forgotten the reasons by which the latter had been guided. They still used the formula, without
asking for its meaning: they retained the instrument, but they no longer possessed the art
of altering or renewing it. The Chinese, then, had lost the power of change; for them to improve
was impossible. They were compelled, at all times and in all points, to imitate their predecessors,
lest they should stray into utter darkness, by deviating for an instant from the path already
laid down for them. The source of human knowledge was all but dry; and though the stream still
ran on, it could neither swell its waters nor alter its channel. Notwithstanding this, China
had subsisted peaceably for centuries. The invaders who had conquered the country assumed the
manners of the inhabitants, and order prevailed there. A sort of physical prosperity was everywhere
discernible: revolutions were rare, and war was, so to speak, unknown.

It is then a fallacy to flatter ourselves with the reflection that the barbarians are still
far from us; for if there be some nations which allow civilization to be torn from their grasp,
there are others who trample it themselves under their feet.

Chapter XI: Of The Spirit In Which The Americans Cultivate The Arts

It would be to waste the time of my readers and my own if I strove to demonstrate how the general
mediocrity of fortunes, the absence of superfluous wealth, the universal desire of comfort,
and the constant efforts by which everyone attempts to procure it, make the taste for the useful
predominate over the love of the beautiful in the heart of man. Democratic nations, amongst
which all these things exist, will therefore cultivate the arts which serve to render life
easy, in preference to those whose object is to adorn it. They will habitually prefer the useful
to the beautiful, and they will require that the beautiful should be useful. But I propose
to go further; and after having pointed out this first feature, to sketch several others.

It commonly happens that in the ages of privilege the practice of almost all the arts becomes
a privilege; and that every profession is a separate walk, upon which it is not allowable for
everyone to enter. Even when productive industry is free, the fixed character which belongs
to aristocratic nations gradually segregates all the persons who practise the same art, till
they form a distinct class, always composed of the same families, whose members are all known
to each other, and amongst whom a public opinion of their own and a species of corporate pride
soon spring up. In a class or guild of this kind, each artisan has not only his fortune to
make, but his reputation to preserve. He is not exclusively swayed by his own interest, or
even by that of his customer, but by that of the body to which he belongs; and the interest
of that body is, that each artisan should produce the best possible workmanship. In aristocratic
ages, the object of the arts is therefore to manufacture as well as possible--not with the
greatest despatch, or at the lowest rate.

When, on the contrary, every profession is open to all--when a multitude of persons are constantly
embracing and abandoning it--and when its several members are strangers to each other, indifferent,
and from their numbers hardly seen amongst themselves; the social tie is destroyed, and each
workman, standing alone, endeavors simply to gain the greatest possible quantity of money at
the least possible cost. The will of the customer is then his only limit. But at the same time
a corresponding revolution takes place in the customer also. In countries in which riches as
well as power are concentrated and retained in the hands of the few, the use of the greater
part of this world's goods belongs to a small number of individuals, who are always the same.
Necessity, public opinion, or moderate desires exclude all others from the enjoyment of them.
As this aristocratic class remains fixed at the pinnacle of greatness on which it stands, without
diminution or increase, it is always acted upon by the same wants and affected by them in the
same manner. The men of whom it is composed naturally derive from their superior and hereditary
position a taste for what is extremely well made and lasting. This affects the general way
of thinking of the nation in relation to the arts. It often occurs, among such a people, that
even the peasant will rather go without the object he covets, than procure it in a state of
imperfection. In aristocracies, then, the handicraftsmen work for only a limited number of
very fastidious customers: the profit they hope to make depends principally on the perfection
of their workmanship.

Such is no longer the case when, all privileges being abolished, ranks are intermingled, and
men are forever rising or sinking upon the ladder of society. Amongst a democratic people a
number of citizens always exist whose patrimony is divided and decreasing. They have contracted,
under more prosperous circumstances, certain wants, which remain after the means of satisfying
such wants are gone; and they are anxiously looking out for some surreptitious method of providing
for them. On the other hand, there are always in democracies a large number of men whose fortune
is upon the increase, but whose desires grow much faster than their fortunes: and who gloat
upon the gifts of wealth in anticipation, long before they have means to command them. Such
men eager to find some short cut to these gratifications, already almost within their reach.
From the combination of these causes the result is, that in democracies there are always a
multitude of individuals whose wants are above their means, and who are very willing to take
up with imperfect satisfaction rather than abandon the object of their desires.

The artisan readily understands these passions, for he himself partakes in them: in an aristocracy
he would seek to sell his workmanship at a high price to the few; he now conceives that the
more expeditious way of getting rich is to sell them at a low price to all. But there are only
two ways of lowering the price of commodities. The first is to discover some better, shorter,
and more ingenious method of producing them: the second is to manufacture a larger quantity
of goods, nearly similar, but of less value. Amongst a democratic population, all the intellectual
faculties of the workman are directed to these two objects: he strives to invent methods which
may enable him not only to work better, but quicker and cheaper; or, if he cannot succeed in
that, to diminish the intrinsic qualities of the thing he makes, without rendering it wholly
unfit for the use for which it is intended. When none but the wealthy had watches, they were
almost all very good ones: few are now made which are worth much, but everybody has one in
his pocket. Thus the democratic principle not only tends to direct the human mind to the useful
arts, but it induces the artisan to produce with greater rapidity a quantity of imperfect commodities,
and the consumer to content himself with these commodities.

Not that in democracies the arts are incapable of producing very commendable works, if such
be required. This may occasionally be the case, if customers appear who are ready to pay for
time and trouble. In this rivalry of every kind of industry--in the midst of this immense competition
and these countless experiments, some excellent workmen are formed who reach the utmost limits
of their craft. But they have rarely an opportunity of displaying what they can do; they are
scrupulously sparing of their powers; they remain in a state of accomplished mediocrity, which
condemns itself, and, though it be very well able to shoot beyond the mark before it, aims
only at what it hits. In aristocracies, on the contrary, workmen always do all they can; and
when they stop, it is because they have reached the limit of their attainments.

When I arrive in a country where I find some of the finest productions of the arts, I learn
from this fact nothing of the social condition or of the political constitution of the country.
But if I perceive that the productions of the arts are generally of an inferior quality, very
abundant and very cheap, I am convinced that, amongst the people where this occurs, privilege
is on the decline, and that ranks are beginning to intermingle, and will soon be confounded
together.

The handicraftsmen of democratic ages endeavor not only to bring their useful productions within
the reach of the whole community, but they strive to give to all their commodities attractive
qualities which they do not in reality possess. In the confusion of all ranks everyone hopes
to appear what he is not, and makes great exertions to succeed in this object. This sentiment
indeed, which is but too natural to the heart of man, does not originate in the democratic
principle; but that principle applies it to material objects. To mimic virtue is of every age;
but the hypocrisy of luxury belongs more particularly to the ages of democracy.

To satisfy these new cravings of human vanity the arts have recourse to every species of imposture:
and these devices sometimes go so far as to defeat their own purpose. Imitation diamonds are
now made which may be easily mistaken for real ones; as soon as the art of fabricating false
diamonds shall have reached so high a degree of perfection that they cannot be distinguished
from real ones, it is probable that both one and the other will be abandoned, and become mere
pebbles again.

This leads me to speak of those arts which are called the fine arts, by way of distinction.
I do not believe that it is a necessary effect of a democratic social condition and of democratic
institutions to diminish the number of men who cultivate the fine arts; but these causes exert
a very powerful influence on the manner in which these arts are cultivated. Many of those who
had already contracted a taste for the fine arts are impoverished: on the other hand, many
of those who are not yet rich begin to conceive that taste, at least by imitation; and the
number of consumers increases, but opulent and fastidious consumers become more scarce. Something
analogous to what I have already pointed out in the useful arts then takes place in the fine
arts; the productions of artists are more numerous, but the merit of each production is diminished.
No longer able to soar to what is great, they cultivate what is pretty and elegant; and appearance
is more attended to than reality. In aristocracies a few great pictures are produced; in democratic
countries, a vast number of insignificant ones. In the former, statues are raised of bronze;
in the latter, they are modelled in plaster.

When I arrived for the first time at New York, by that part of the Atlantic Ocean which is
called the Narrows, I was surprised to perceive along the shore, at some distance from the
city, a considerable number of little palaces of white marble, several of which were built
after the models of ancient architecture. When I went the next day to inspect more closely
the building which had particularly attracted my notice, I found that its walls were of whitewashed
brick, and its columns of painted wood. All the edifices which I had admired the night before
were of the same kind.

The social condition and the institutions of democracy impart, moreover, certain peculiar tendencies
to all the imitative arts, which it is easy to point out. They frequently withdraw them from
the delineation of the soul to fix them exclusively on that of the body: and they substitute
the representation of motion and sensation for that of sentiment and thought: in a word, they
put the real in the place of the ideal. I doubt whether Raphael studied the minutest intricacies
of the mechanism of the human body as thoroughly as the draughtsmen of our own time. He did
not attach the same importance to rigorous accuracy on this point as they do, because he aspired
to surpass nature. He sought to make of man something which should be superior to man, and
to embellish beauty's self. David and his scholars were, on the contrary, as good anatomists
as they were good painters. They wonderfully depicted the models which they had before their
eyes, but they rarely imagined anything beyond them: they followed nature with fidelity: whilst
Raphael sought for something better than nature. They have left us an exact portraiture of
man; but he discloses in his works a glimpse of the Divinity. This remark as to the manner
of treating a subject is no less applicable to the choice of it. The painters of the Middle
Ages generally sought far above themselves, and away from their own time, for mighty subjects,
which left to their imagination an unbounded range. Our painters frequently employ their talents
in the exact imitation of the details of private life, which they have always before their
eyes; and they are forever copying trivial objects, the originals of which are only too abundant
in nature.

Chapter XII: Why The Americans Raise Some Monuments So Insignificant, And Others So Important

I have just observed, that in democratic ages monuments of the arts tend to become more numerous
and less important. I now hasten to point out the exception to this rule. In a democratic community
individuals are very powerless; but the State which represents them all, and contains them
all in its grasp, is very powerful. Nowhere do citizens appear so insignificant as in a democratic
nation; nowhere does the nation itself appear greater, or does the mind more easily take in
a wide general survey of it. In democratic communities the imagination is compressed when men
consider themselves; it expands indefinitely when they think of the State. Hence it is that
the same men who live on a small scale in narrow dwellings, frequently aspire to gigantic splendor
in the erection of their public monuments.

The Americans traced out the circuit of an immense city on the site which they intended to
make their capital, but which, up to the present time, is hardly more densely peopled than
Pontoise, though, according to them, it will one day contain a million of inhabitants. They
have already rooted up trees for ten miles round, lest they should interfere with the future
citizens of this imaginary metropolis. They have erected a magnificent palace for Congress
in the centre of the city, and have given it the pompous name of the Capitol. The several States
of the Union are every day planning and erecting for themselves prodigious undertakings, which
would astonish the engineers of the great European nations. Thus democracy not only leads men
to a vast number of inconsiderable productions; it also leads them to raise some monuments
on the largest scale: but between these two extremes there is a blank. A few scattered remains
of enormous buildings can therefore teach us nothing of the social condition and the institutions
of the people by whom they were raised. I may add, though the remark leads me to step out of
my subject, that they do not make us better acquainted with its greatness, its civilization,
and its real prosperity. Whensoever a power of any kind shall be able to make a whole people
co-operate in a single undertaking, that power, with a little knowledge and a great deal of
time, will succeed in obtaining something enormous from the co-operation of efforts so multiplied.
But this does not lead to the conclusion that the people was very happy, very enlightened,
or even very strong.

The Spaniards found the City of Mexico full of magnificent temples and vast palaces; but that
did not prevent Cortes from conquering the Mexican Empire with 600 foot soldiers and sixteen
horses. If the Romans had been better acquainted with the laws of hydraulics, they would not
have constructed all the aqueducts which surround the ruins of their cities--they would have
made a better use of their power and their wealth. If they had invented the steam-engine, perhaps
they would not have extended to the extremities of their empire those long artificial roads
which are called Roman roads. These things are at once the splendid memorials of their ignorance
and of their greatness. A people which should leave no other vestige of its track than a few
leaden pipes in the earth and a few iron rods upon its surface, might have been more the master
of nature than the Romans.

Chapter XIII: Literary Characteristics Of Democratic Ages

When a traveller goes into a bookseller's shop in the United States, and examines the American
books upon the shelves, the number of works appears extremely great; whilst that of known authors
appears, on the contrary, to be extremely small. He will first meet with a number of elementary
treatises, destined to teach the rudiments of human knowledge. Most of these books are written
in Europe; the Americans reprint them, adapting them to their own country. Next comes an enormous
quantity of religious works, Bibles, sermons, edifying anecdotes, controversial divinity, and
reports of charitable societies; lastly, appears the long catalogue of political pamphlets.
In America, parties do not write books to combat each others' opinions, but pamphlets which
are circulated for a day with incredible rapidity, and then expire. In the midst of all these
obscure productions of the human brain are to be found the more remarkable works of that small
number of authors, whose names are, or ought to be, known to Europeans.

Although America is perhaps in our days the civilized country in which literature is least
attended to, a large number of persons are nevertheless to be found there who take an interest
in the productions of the mind, and who make them, if not the study of their lives, at least
the charm of their leisure hours. But England supplies these readers with the larger portion
of the books which they require. Almost all important English books are republished in the
United States. The literary genius of Great Britain still darts its rays into the recesses
of the forests of the New World. There is hardly a pioneer's hut which does not contain a few
odd volumes of Shakespeare. I remember that I read the feudal play of Henry V for the first
time in a loghouse.

Not only do the Americans constantly draw upon the treasures of English literature, but it
may be said with truth that they find the literature of England growing on their own soil.
The larger part of that small number of men in the United States who are engaged in the composition
of literary works are English in substance, and still more so in form. Thus they transport
into the midst of democracy the ideas and literary fashions which are current amongst the aristocratic
nation they have taken for their model. They paint with colors borrowed from foreign manners;
and as they hardly ever represent the country they were born in as it really is, they are seldom
popular there. The citizens of the United States are themselves so convinced that it is not
for them that books are published, that before they can make up their minds upon the merit
of one of their authors, they generally wait till his fame has been ratified in England, just
as in pictures the author of an original is held to be entitled to judge of the merit of a
copy. The inhabitants of the United States have then at present, properly speaking, no literature.
The only authors whom I acknowledge as American are the journalists. They indeed are not great
writers, but they speak the language of their countrymen, and make themselves heard by them.
Other authors are aliens; they are to the Americans what the imitators of the Greeks and Romans
were to us at the revival of learning--an object of curiosity, not of general sympathy. They
amuse the mind, but they do not act upon the manners of the people.

I have already said that this state of things is very far from originating in democracy alone,
and that the causes of it must be sought for in several peculiar circumstances independent
of the democratic principle. If the Americans, retaining the same laws and social condition,
had had a different origin, and had been transported into another country, I do not question
that they would have had a literature. Even as they now are, I am convinced that they will
ultimately have one; but its character will be different from that which marks the American
literary productions of our time, and that character will be peculiarly its own. Nor is it
impossible to trace this character beforehand.

I suppose an aristocratic people amongst whom letters are cultivated; the labors of the mind,
as well as the affairs of state, are conducted by a ruling class in society. The literary as
well as the political career is almost entirely confined to this class, or to those nearest
to it in rank. These premises suffice to give me a key to all the rest. When a small number
of the same men are engaged at the same time upon the same objects, they easily concert with
one another, and agree upon certain leading rules which are to govern them each and all. If
the object which attracts the attention of these men is literature, the productions of the
mind will soon be subjected by them to precise canons, from which it will no longer be allowable
to depart. If these men occupy a hereditary position in the country, they will be naturally
inclined, not only to adopt a certain number of fixed rules for themselves, but to follow those
which their forefathers laid down for their own guidance; their code will be at once strict
and traditional. As they are not necessarily engrossed by the cares of daily life--as they
have never been so, any more than their fathers were before them--they have learned to take
an interest, for several generations back, in the labors of the mind. They have learned to
understand literature as an art, to love it in the end for its own sake, and to feel a scholar-like
satisfaction in seeing men conform to its rules. Nor is this all: the men of whom I speak began
and will end their lives in easy or in affluent circumstances; hence they have naturally conceived
a taste for choice gratifications, and a love of refined and delicate pleasures. Nay more,
a kind of indolence of mind and heart, which they frequently contract in the midst of this
long and peaceful enjoyment of so much welfare, leads them to put aside, even from their pleasures,
whatever might be too startling or too acute. They had rather be amused than intensely excited;
they wish to be interested, but not to be carried away.

Now let us fancy a great number of literary performances executed by the men, or for the men,
whom I have just described, and we shall readily conceive a style of literature in which everything
will be regular and prearranged. The slightest work will be carefully touched in its least
details; art and labor will be conspicuous in everything; each kind of writing will have rules
of its own, from which it will not be allowed to swerve, and which distinguish it from all
others. Style will be thought of almost as much importance as thought; and the form will be
no less considered than the matter: the diction will be polished, measured, and uniform. The
tone of the mind will be always dignified, seldom very animated; and writers will care more
to perfect what they produce than to multiply their productions. It will sometimes happen that
the members of the literary class, always living amongst themselves and writing for themselves
alone, will lose sight of the rest of the world, which will infect them with a false and labored
style; they will lay down minute literary rules for their exclusive use, which will insensibly
lead them to deviate from common-sense, and finally to transgress the bounds of nature. By
dint of striving after a mode of parlance different from the vulgar, they will arrive at a
sort of aristocratic jargon, which is hardly less remote from pure language than is the coarse
dialect of the people. Such are the natural perils of literature amongst aristocracies. Every
aristocracy which keeps itself entirely aloof from the people becomes impotent--a fact which
is as true in literature as it is in politics. *a

[Footnote a: All this is especially true of the aristocratic countries which have been long
and peacefully subject to a monarchical government. When liberty prevails in an aristocracy,
the higher ranks are constantly obliged to make use of the lower classes; and when they use,
they approach them. This frequently introduces something of a democratic spirit into an aristocratic
community. There springs up, moreover, in a privileged body, governing with energy and an habitually
bold policy, a taste for stir and excitement which must infallibly affect all literary performances.]

Let us now turn the picture and consider the other side of it; let us transport ourselves into
the midst of a democracy, not unprepared by ancient traditions and present culture to partake
in the pleasures of the mind. Ranks are there intermingled and confounded; knowledge and power
are both infinitely subdivided, and, if I may use the expression, scattered on every side.
Here then is a motley multitude, whose intellectual wants are to be supplied. These new votaries
of the pleasures of the mind have not all received the same education; they do not possess
the same degree of culture as their fathers, nor any resemblance to them--nay, they perpetually
differ from themselves, for they live in a state of incessant change of place, feelings, and
fortunes. The mind of each member of the community is therefore unattached to that of his fellow-citizens
by tradition or by common habits; and they have never had the power, the inclination, nor the
time to concert together. It is, however, from the bosom of this heterogeneous and agitated
mass that authors spring; and from the same source their profits and their fame are distributed.
I can without difficulty understand that, under these circumstances, I must expect to meet
in the literature of such a people with but few of those strict conventional rules which are
admitted by readers and by writers in aristocratic ages. If it should happen that the men of
some one period were agreed upon any such rules, that would prove nothing for the following
period; for amongst democratic nations each new generation is a new people. Amongst such nations,
then, literature will not easily be subjected to strict rules, and it is impossible that any
such rules should ever be permanent.

In democracies it is by no means the case that all the men who cultivate literature have received
a literary education; and most of those who have some tinge of belles-lettres are either engaged
in politics, or in a profession which only allows them to taste occasionally and by stealth
the pleasures of the mind. These pleasures, therefore, do not constitute the principal charm
of their lives; but they are considered as a transient and necessary recreation amidst the
serious labors of life. Such man can never acquire a sufficiently intimate knowledge of the
art of literature to appreciate its more delicate beauties; and the minor shades of expression
must escape them. As the time they can devote to letters is very short, they seek to make the
best use of the whole of it. They prefer books which may be easily procured, quickly read,
and which require no learned researches to be understood. They ask for beauties, self-proffered
and easily enjoyed; above all, they must have what is unexpected and new. Accustomed to the
struggle, the crosses, and the monotony of practical life, they require rapid emotions, startling
passages--truths or errors brilliant enough to rouse them up, and to plunge them at once, as
if by violence, into the midst of a subject.

Why should I say more? or who does not understand what is about to follow, before I have expressed
it? Taken as a whole, literature in democratic ages can never present, as it does in the periods
of aristocracy, an aspect of order, regularity, science, and art; its form will, on the contrary,
ordinarily be slighted, sometimes despised. Style will frequently be fantastic, incorrect,
overburdened, and loose--almost always vehement and bold. Authors will aim at rapidity of execution,
more than at perfection of detail. Small productions will be more common than bulky books;
there will be more wit than erudition, more imagination than profundity; and literary performances
will bear marks of an untutored and rude vigor of thought--frequently of great variety and
singular fecundity. The object of authors will be to astonish rather than to please, and to
stir the passions more than to charm the taste. Here and there, indeed, writers will doubtless
occur who will choose a different track, and who will, if they are gifted with superior abilities,
succeed in finding readers, in spite of their defects or their better qualities; but these
exceptions will be rare, and even the authors who shall so depart from the received practice
in the main subject of their works, will always relapse into it in some lesser details.

I have just depicted two extreme conditions: the transition by which a nation passes from the
former to the latter is not sudden but gradual, and marked with shades of very various intensity.
In the passage which conducts a lettered people from the one to the other, there is almost
always a moment at which the literary genius of democratic nations has its confluence with
that of aristocracies, and both seek to establish their joint sway over the human mind. Such
epochs are transient, but very brilliant: they are fertile without exuberance, and animated
without confusion. The French literature of the eighteenth century may serve as an example.

I should say more than I mean if I were to assert that the literature of a nation is always
subordinate to its social condition and its political constitution. I am aware that, independently
of these causes, there are several others which confer certain characteristics on literary
productions; but these appear to me to be the chief. The relations which exist between the
social and political condition of a people and the genius of its authors are always very numerous:
whoever knows the one is never completely ignorant of the other.

Chapter XIV: The Trade Of Literature

Democracy not only infuses a taste for letters among the trading classes, but introduces a
trading spirit into literature. In aristocracies, readers are fastidious and few in number;
in democracies, they are far more numerous and far less difficult to please. The consequence
is, that among aristocratic nations, no one can hope to succeed without immense exertions,
and that these exertions may bestow a great deal of fame, but can never earn much money; whilst
among democratic nations, a writer may flatter himself that he will obtain at a cheap rate
a meagre reputation and a large fortune. For this purpose he need not be admired; it is enough
that he is liked. The ever-increasing crowd of readers, and their continual craving for something
new, insure the sale of books which nobody much esteems.

In democratic periods the public frequently treat authors as kings do their courtiers; they
enrich, and they despise them. What more is needed by the venal souls which are born in courts,
or which are worthy to live there? Democratic literature is always infested with a tribe of
writers who look upon letters as a mere trade: and for some few great authors who adorn it
you may reckon thousands of idea-mongers.

Chapter XV: The Study Of Greek And Latin Literature Peculiarly Useful In Democratic Communities

What was called the People in the most democratic republics of antiquity, was very unlike what
we designate by that term. In Athens, all the citizens took part in public affairs; but there
were only 20,000 citizens to more than 350,000 inhabitants. All the rest were slaves, and discharged
the greater part of those duties which belong at the present day to the lower or even to the
middle classes. Athens, then, with her universal suffrage, was after all merely an aristocratic
republic in which all the nobles had an equal right to the government. The struggle between
the patricians and plebeians of Rome must be considered in the same light: it was simply an
intestine feud between the elder and younger branches of the same family. All the citizens
belonged, in fact, to the aristocracy, and partook of its character.

It is moreover to be remarked, that amongst the ancients books were always scarce and dear;
and that very great difficulties impeded their publication and circulation. These circumstances
concentrated literary tastes and habits amongst a small number of men, who formed a small literary
aristocracy out of the choicer spirits of the great political aristocracy. Accordingly nothing
goes to prove that literature was ever treated as a trade amongst the Greeks and Romans.

These peoples, which not only constituted aristocracies, but very polished and free nations,
of course imparted to their literary productions the defects and the merits which characterize
the literature of aristocratic ages. And indeed a very superficial survey of the literary remains
of the ancients will suffice to convince us, that if those writers were sometimes deficient
in variety, or fertility in their subjects, or in boldness, vivacity, or power of generalization
in their thoughts, they always displayed exquisite care and skill in their details. Nothing
in their works seems to be done hastily or at random: every line is written for the eye of
the connoisseur, and is shaped after some conception of ideal beauty. No literature places
those fine qualities, in which the writers of democracies are naturally deficient, in bolder
relief than that of the ancients; no literature, therefore, ought to be more studied in democratic
ages. This study is better suited than any other to combat the literary defects inherent in
those ages; as for their more praiseworthy literary qualities, they will spring up of their
own accord, without its being necessary to learn to acquire them.

It is important that this point should be clearly understood. A particular study may be useful
to the literature of a people, without being appropriate to its social and political wants.
If men were to persist in teaching nothing but the literature of the dead languages in a community
where everyone is habitually led to make vehement exertions to augment or to maintain his fortune,
the result would be a very polished, but a very dangerous, race of citizens. For as their social
and political condition would give them every day a sense of wants which their education would
never teach them to supply, they would perturb the State, in the name of the Greeks and Romans,
instead of enriching it by their productive industry.

It is evident that in democratic communities the interest of individuals, as well as the security
of the commonwealth, demands that the education of the greater number should be scientific,
commercial, and industrial, rather than literary. Greek and Latin should not be taught in all
schools; but it is important that those who by their natural disposition or their fortune are
destined to cultivate letters or prepared to relish them, should find schools where a complete
knowledge of ancient literature may be acquired, and where the true scholar may be formed.
A few excellent universities would do more towards the attainment of this object than a vast
number of bad grammar schools, where superfluous matters, badly learned, stand in the way of
sound instruction in necessary studies.

All who aspire to literary excellence in democratic nations, ought frequently to refresh themselves
at the springs of ancient literature: there is no more wholesome course for the mind. Not that
I hold the literary productions of the ancients to be irreproachable; but I think that they
have some especial merits, admirably calculated to counterbalance our peculiar defects. They
are a prop on the side on which we are in most danger of falling.

Chapter XVI: The Effect Of Democracy On Language

If the reader has rightly understood what I have already said on the subject of literature
in general, he will have no difficulty in comprehending that species of influence which a democratic
social condition and democratic institutions may exercise over language itself, which is the
chief instrument of thought.

American authors may truly be said to live more in England than in their own country; since
they constantly study the English writers, and take them every day for their models. But such
is not the case with the bulk of the population, which is more immediately subjected to the
peculiar causes acting upon the United States. It is not then to the written, but to the spoken
language that attention must be paid, if we would detect the modifications which the idiom
of an aristocratic people may undergo when it becomes the language of a democracy.

Englishmen of education, and more competent judges than I can be myself of the nicer shades
of expression, have frequently assured me that the language of the educated classes in the
United States is notably different from that of the educated classes in Great Britain. They
complain not only that the Americans have brought into use a number of new words--the difference
and the distance between the two countries might suffice to explain that much--but that these
new words are more especially taken from the jargon of parties, the mechanical arts, or the
language of trade. They assert, in addition to this, that old English words are often used
by the Americans in new acceptations; and lastly, that the inhabitants of the United States
frequently intermingle their phraseology in the strangest manner, and sometimes place words
together which are always kept apart in the language of the mother-country. These remarks,
which were made to me at various times by persons who appeared to be worthy of credit, led
me to reflect upon the subject; and my reflections brought me, by theoretical reasoning, to
the same point at which my informants had arrived by practical observation.

In aristocracies, language must naturally partake of that state of repose in which everything
remains. Few new words are coined, because few new things are made; and even if new things
were made, they would be designated by known words, whose meaning has been determined by tradition.
If it happens that the human mind bestirs itself at length, or is roused by light breaking
in from without, the novel expressions which are introduced are characterized by a degree of
learning, intelligence, and philosophy, which shows that they do not originate in a democracy.
After the fall of Constantinople had turned the tide of science and literature towards the
west, the French language was almost immediately invaded by a multitude of new words, which
had all Greek or Latin roots. An erudite neologism then sprang up in France which was confined
to the educated classes, and which produced no sensible effect, or at least a very gradual
one, upon the people. All the nations of Europe successively exhibited the same change. Milton
alone introduced more than six hundred words into the English language, almost all derived
from the Latin, the Greek, or the Hebrew. The constant agitation which prevails in a democratic
community tends unceasingly, on the contrary, to change the character of the language, as it
does the aspect of affairs. In the midst of this general stir and competition of minds, a great
number of new ideas are formed, old ideas are lost, or reappear, or are subdivided into an
infinite variety of minor shades. The consequence is, that many words must fall into desuetude,
and others must be brought into use.

Democratic nations love change for its own sake; and this is seen in their language as much
as in their politics. Even when they do not need to change words, they sometimes feel a wish
to transform them. The genius of a democratic people is not only shown by the great number
of words they bring into use, but also by the nature of the ideas these new words represent.
Amongst such a people the majority lays down the law in language as well as in everything else;
its prevailing spirit is as manifest in that as in other respects. But the majority is more
engaged in business than in study--in political and commercial interests than in philosophical
speculation or literary pursuits. Most of the words coined or adopted for its use will therefore
bear the mark of these habits; they will mainly serve to express the wants of business, the
passions of party, or the details of the public administration. In these departments the language
will constantly spread, whilst on the other hand it will gradually lose ground in metaphysics
and theology.

As to the source from which democratic nations are wont to derive their new expressions, and
the manner in which they go to work to coin them, both may easily be described. Men living
in democratic countries know but little of the language which was spoken at Athens and at Rome,
and they do not care to dive into the lore of antiquity to find the expression they happen
to want. If they have sometimes recourse to learned etymologies, vanity will induce them to
search at the roots of the dead languages; but erudition does not naturally furnish them with
its resources. The most ignorant, it sometimes happens, will use them most. The eminently democratic
desire to get above their own sphere will often lead them to seek to dignify a vulgar profession
by a Greek or Latin name. The lower the calling is, and the more remote from learning, the
more pompous and erudite is its appellation. Thus the French rope-dancers have transformed
themselves into acrobates and funambules.

In the absence of knowledge of the dead languages, democratic nations are apt to borrow words
from living tongues; for their mutual intercourse becomes perpetual, and the inhabitants of
different countries imitate each other the more readily as they grow more like each other every
day.

But it is principally upon their own languages that democratic nations attempt to perpetrate
innovations. From time to time they resume forgotten expressions in their vocabulary, which
they restore to use; or they borrow from some particular class of the community a term peculiar
to it, which they introduce with a figurative meaning into the language of daily life. Many
expressions which originally belonged to the technical language of a profession or a party,
are thus drawn into general circulation.

The most common expedient employed by democratic nations to make an innovation in language
consists in giving some unwonted meaning to an expression already in use. This method is very
simple, prompt, and convenient; no learning is required to use it aright, and ignorance itself
rather facilitates the practice; but that practice is most dangerous to the language. When
a democratic people doubles the meaning of a word in this way, they sometimes render the signification
which it retains as ambiguous as that which it acquires. An author begins by a slight deflection
of a known expression from its primitive meaning, and he adapts it, thus modified, as well
as he can to his subject. A second writer twists the sense of the expression in another way;
a third takes possession of it for another purpose; and as there is no common appeal to the
sentence of a permanent tribunal which may definitely settle the signification of the word,
it remains in an ambiguous condition. The consequence is that writers hardly ever appear to
dwell upon a single thought, but they always seem to point their aim at a knot of ideas, leaving
the reader to judge which of them has been hit. This is a deplorable consequence of democracy.
I had rather that the language should be made hideous with words imported from the Chinese,
the Tartars, or the Hurons, than that the meaning of a word in our own language should become
indeterminate. Harmony and uniformity are only secondary beauties in composition; many of these
things are conventional, and, strictly speaking, it is possible to forego them; but without
clear phraseology there is no good language.

The principle of equality necessarily introduces several other changes into language. In aristocratic
ages, when each nation tends to stand aloof from all others and likes to have distinct characteristics
of its own, it often happens that several peoples which have a common origin become nevertheless
estranged from each other, so that, without ceasing to understand the same language, they no
longer all speak it in the same manner. In these ages each nation is divided into a certain
number of classes, which see but little of each other, and do not intermingle. Each of these
classes contracts, and invariably retains, habits of mind peculiar to itself, and adopts by
choice certain words and certain terms, which afterwards pass from generation to generation,
like their estates. The same idiom then comprises a language of the poor and a language of
the rich--a language of the citizen and a language of the nobility--a learned language and
a vulgar one. The deeper the divisions, and the more impassable the barriers of society become,
the more must this be the case. I would lay a wager, that amongst the castes of India there
are amazing variations of language, and that there is almost as much difference between the
language of the pariah and that of the Brahmin as there is in their dress. When, on the contrary,
men, being no longer restrained by ranks, meet on terms of constant intercourse--when castes
are destroyed, and the classes of society are recruited and intermixed with each other, all
the words of a language are mingled. Those which are unsuitable to the greater number perish;
the remainder form a common store, whence everyone chooses pretty nearly at random. Almost
all the different dialects which divided the idioms of European nations are manifestly declining;
there is no patois in the New World, and it is disappearing every day from the old countries.

The influence of this revolution in social conditions is as much felt in style as it is in
phraseology. Not only does everyone use the same words, but a habit springs up of using them
without discrimination. The rules which style had set up are almost abolished: the line ceases
to be drawn between expressions which seem by their very nature vulgar, and other which appear
to be refined. Persons springing from different ranks of society carry the terms and expressions
they are accustomed to use with them, into whatever circumstances they may pass; thus the origin
of words is lost like the origin of individuals, and there is as much confusion in language
as there is in society.

I am aware that in the classification of words there are rules which do not belong to one form
of society any more than to another, but which are derived from the nature of things. Some
expressions and phrases are vulgar, because the ideas they are meant to express are low in
themselves; others are of a higher character, because the objects they are intended to designate
are naturally elevated. No intermixture of ranks will ever efface these differences. But the
principle of equality cannot fail to root out whatever is merely conventional and arbitrary
in the forms of thought. Perhaps the necessary classification which I pointed out in the last
sentence will always be less respected by a democratic people than by any other, because amongst
such a people there are no men who are permanently disposed by education, culture, and leisure
to study the natural laws of language, and who cause those laws to be respected by their own
observance of them.

I shall not quit this topic without touching on a feature of democratic languages, which is
perhaps more characteristic of them than any other. It has already been shown that democratic
nations have a taste, and sometimes a passion, for general ideas, and that this arises from
their peculiar merits and defects. This liking for general ideas is displayed in democratic
languages by the continual use of generic terms or abstract expressions, and by the manner
in which they are employed. This is the great merit and the great imperfection of these languages.
Democratic nations are passionately addicted to generic terms or abstract expressions, because
these modes of speech enlarge thought, and assist the operations of the mind by enabling it
to include several objects in a small compass. A French democratic writer will be apt to say
capacites in the abstract for men of capacity, and without particularizing the objects to which
their capacity is applied: he will talk about actualities to designate in one word the things
passing before his eyes at the instant; and he will comprehend under the term eventualities
whatever may happen in the universe, dating from the moment at which he speaks. Democratic
writers are perpetually coining words of this kind, in which they sublimate into further abstraction
the abstract terms of the language. Nay, more, to render their mode of speech more succinct,
they personify the subject of these abstract terms, and make it act like a real entity. Thus
they would say in French, "La force des choses veut que les capacites gouvernent."

I cannot better illustrate what I mean than by my own example. I have frequently used the word
"equality" in an absolute sense--nay, I have personified equality in several places; thus I
have said that equality does such and such things, or refrains from doing others. It may be
affirmed that the writers of the age of Louis XIV would not have used these expressions: they
would never have thought of using the word "equality" without applying it to some particular
object; and they would rather have renounced the term altogether than have consented to make
a living personage of it.

These abstract terms which abound in democratic languages, and which are used on every occasion
without attaching them to any particular fact, enlarge and obscure the thoughts they are intended
to convey; they render the mode of speech more succinct, and the idea contained in it less
clear. But with regard to language, democratic nations prefer obscurity to labor. I know not
indeed whether this loose style has not some secret charm for those who speak and write amongst
these nations. As the men who live there are frequently left to the efforts of their individual
powers of mind, they are almost always a prey to doubt; and as their situation in life is forever
changing, they are never held fast to any of their opinions by the certain tenure of their
fortunes. Men living in democratic countries are, then, apt to entertain unsettled ideas, and
they require loose expressions to convey them. As they never know whether the idea they express
to-day will be appropriate to the new position they may occupy to-morrow, they naturally acquire
a liking for abstract terms. An abstract term is like a box with a false bottom: you may put
in it what ideas you please, and take them out again without being observed.

Amongst all nations, generic and abstract terms form the basis of language. I do not, therefore,
affect to expel these terms from democratic languages; I simply remark that men have an especial
tendency, in the ages of democracy, to multiply words of this kind--to take them always by
themselves in their most abstract acceptation, and to use them on all occasions, even when
the nature of the discourse does not require them.

Chapter XVII: Of Some Of The Sources Of Poetry Amongst Democratic Nations

Various different significations have been given to the word "poetry." It would weary my readers
if I were to lead them into a discussion as to which of these definitions ought to be selected:
I prefer telling them at once that which I have chosen. In my opinion, poetry is the search
and the delineation of the ideal. The poet is he who, by suppressing a part of what exists,
by adding some imaginary touches to the picture, and by combining certain real circumstances,
but which do not in fact concurrently happen, completes and extends the work of nature. Thus
the object of poetry is not to represent what is true, but to adorn it, and to present to the
mind some loftier imagery. Verse, regarded as the ideal beauty of language, may be eminently
poetical; but verse does not, of itself, constitute poetry.

I now proceed to inquire whether, amongst the actions, the sentiments, and the opinions of
democratic nations, there are any which lead to a conception of ideal beauty, and which may
for this reason be considered as natural sources of poetry. It must in the first place, be
acknowledged that the taste for ideal beauty, and the pleasure derived from the expression
of it, are never so intense or so diffused amongst a democratic as amongst an aristocratic
people. In aristocratic nations it sometimes happens that the body goes on to act as it were
spontaneously, whilst the higher faculties are bound and burdened by repose. Amongst these
nations the people will very often display poetic tastes, and sometimes allow their fancy to
range beyond and above what surrounds them. But in democracies the love of physical gratification,
the notion of bettering one's condition, the excitement of competition, the charm of anticipated
success, are so many spurs to urge men onwards in the active professions they have embraced,
without allowing them to deviate for an instant from the track. The main stress of the faculties
is to this point. The imagination is not extinct; but its chief function is to devise what
may be useful, and to represent what is real.

The principle of equality not only diverts men from the description of ideal beauty--it also
diminishes the number of objects to be described. Aristocracy, by maintaining society in a
fixed position, is favorable to the solidity and duration of positive religions, as well as
to the stability of political institutions. It not only keeps the human mind within a certain
sphere of belief, but it predisposes the mind to adopt one faith rather than another. An aristocratic
people will always be prone to place intermediate powers between God and man. In this respect
it may be said that the aristocratic element is favorable to poetry. When the universe is peopled
with supernatural creatures, not palpable to the senses but discovered by the mind, the imagination
ranges freely, and poets, finding a thousand subjects to delineate, also find a countless audience
to take an interest in their productions. In democratic ages it sometimes happens, on the contrary,
that men are as much afloat in matters of belief as they are in their laws. Scepticism then
draws the imagination of poets back to earth, and confines them to the real and visible world.
Even when the principle of equality does not disturb religious belief, it tends to simplify
it, and to divert attention from secondary agents, to fix it principally on the Supreme Power.
Aristocracy naturally leads the human mind to the contemplation of the past, and fixes it there.
Democracy, on the contrary, gives men a sort of instinctive distaste for what is ancient. In
this respect aristocracy is far more favorable to poetry; for things commonly grow larger and
more obscure as they are more remote; and for this twofold reason they are better suited to
the delineation of the ideal.

After having deprived poetry of the past, the principle of equality robs it in part of the
present. Amongst aristocratic nations there are a certain number of privileged personages,
whose situation is, as it were, without and above the condition of man; to these, power, wealth,
fame, wit, refinement, and distinction in all things appear peculiarly to belong. The crowd
never sees them very closely, or does not watch them in minute details; and little is needed
to make the description of such men poetical. On the other hand, amongst the same people, you
will meet with classes so ignorant, low, and enslaved, that they are no less fit objects for
poetry from the excess of their rudeness and wretchedness, than the former are from their greatness
and refinement. Besides, as the different classes of which an aristocratic community is composed
are widely separated, and imperfectly acquainted with each other, the imagination may always
represent them with some addition to, or some subtraction from, what they really are. In democratic
communities, where men are all insignificant and very much alike, each man instantly sees all
his fellows when he surveys himself. The poets of democratic ages can never, therefore, take
any man in particular as the subject of a piece; for an object of slender importance, which
is distinctly seen on all sides, will never lend itself to an ideal conception. Thus the principle
of equality; in proportion as it has established itself in the world, has dried up most of
the old springs of poetry. Let us now attempt to show what new ones it may disclose.

When scepticism had depopulated heaven, and the progress of equality had reduced each individual
to smaller and better known proportions, the poets, not yet aware of what they could substitute
for the great themes which were departing together with the aristocracy, turned their eyes
to inanimate nature. As they lost sight of gods and heroes, they set themselves to describe
streams and mountains. Thence originated in the last century, that kind of poetry which has
been called, by way of distinction, the descriptive. Some have thought that this sort of delineation,
embellished with all the physical and inanimate objects which cover the earth, was the kind
of poetry peculiar to democratic ages; but I believe this to be an error, and that it only
belongs to a period of transition.

I am persuaded that in the end democracy diverts the imagination from all that is external
to man, and fixes it on man alone. Democratic nations may amuse themselves for a while with
considering the productions of nature; but they are only excited in reality by a survey of
themselves. Here, and here alone, the true sources of poetry amongst such nations are to be
found; and it may be believed that the poets who shall neglect to draw their inspirations hence,
will lose all sway over the minds which they would enchant, and will be left in the end with
none but unimpassioned spectators of their transports. I have shown how the ideas of progression
and of the indefinite perfectibility of the human race belong to democratic ages. Democratic
nations care but little for what has been, but they are haunted by visions of what will be;
in this direction their unbounded imagination grows and dilates beyond all measure. Here then
is the wildest range open to the genius of poets, which allows them to remove their performances
to a sufficient distance from the eye. Democracy shuts the past against the poet, but opens
the future before him. As all the citizens who compose a democratic community are nearly equal
and alike, the poet cannot dwell upon any one of them; but the nation itself invites the exercise
of his powers. The general similitude of individuals, which renders any one of them taken separately
an improper subject of poetry, allows poets to include them all in the same imagery, and to
take a general survey of the people itself. Democractic nations have a clearer perception than
any others of their own aspect; and an aspect so imposing is admirably fitted to the delineation
of the ideal.

I readily admit that the Americans have no poets; I cannot allow that they have no poetic ideas.
In Europe people talk a great deal of the wilds of America, but the Americans themselves never
think about them: they are insensible to the wonders of inanimate nature, and they may be said
not to perceive the mighty forests which surround them till they fall beneath the hatchet.
Their eyes are fixed upon another sight: the American people views its own march across these
wilds--drying swamps, turning the course of rivers, peopling solitudes, and subduing nature.
This magnificent image of themselves does not meet the gaze of the Americans at intervals only;
it may be said to haunt every one of them in his least as well as in his most important actions,
and to be always flitting before his mind. Nothing conceivable is so petty, so insipid, so
crowded with paltry interests, in one word so anti-poetic, as the life of a man in the United
States. But amongst the thoughts which it suggests there is always one which is full of poetry,
and that is the hidden nerve which gives vigor to the frame.

In aristocratic ages each people, as well as each individual, is prone to stand separate and
aloof from all others. In democratic ages, the extreme fluctuations of men and the impatience
of their desires keep them perpetually on the move; so that the inhabitants of different countries
intermingle, see, listen to, and borrow from each other's stores. It is not only then the members
of the same community who grow more alike; communities are themselves assimilated to one another,
and the whole assemblage presents to the eye of the spectator one vast democracy, each citizen
of which is a people. This displays the aspect of mankind for the first time in the broadest
light. All that belongs to the existence of the human race taken as a whole, to its vicissitudes
and to its future, becomes an abundant mine of poetry. The poets who lived in aristocratic
ages have been eminently successful in their delineations of certain incidents in the life
of a people or a man; but none of them ever ventured to include within his performances the
destinies of mankind--a task which poets writing in democratic ages may attempt. At that same
time at which every man, raising his eyes above his country, begins at length to discern mankind
at large, the Divinity is more and more manifest to the human mind in full and entire majesty.
If in democratic ages faith in positive religions be often shaken, and the belief in intermediate
agents, by whatever name they are called, be overcast; on the other hand men are disposed to
conceive a far broader idea of Providence itself, and its interference in human affairs assumes
a new and more imposing appearance to their eyes. Looking at the human race as one great whole,
they easily conceive that its destinies are regulated by the same design; and in the actions
of every individual they are led to acknowledge a trace of that universal and eternal plan
on which God rules our race. This consideration may be taken as another prolific source of
poetry which is opened in democratic ages. Democratic poets will always appear trivial and
frigid if they seek to invest gods, demons, or angels, with corporeal forms, and if they attempt
to draw them down from heaven to dispute the supremacy of earth. But if they strive to connect
the great events they commemorate with the general providential designs which govern the universe,
and, without showing the finger of the Supreme Governor, reveal the thoughts of the Supreme
Mind, their works will be admired and understood, for the imagination of their contemporaries
takes this direction of its own accord.

It may be foreseen in the like manner that poets living in democratic ages will prefer the
delineation of passions and ideas to that of persons and achievements. The language, the dress,
and the daily actions of men in democracies are repugnant to ideal conceptions. These things
are not poetical in themselves; and, if it were otherwise, they would cease to be so, because
they are too familiar to all those to whom the poet would speak of them. This forces the poet
constantly to search below the external surface which is palpable to the senses, in order to
read the inner soul: and nothing lends itself more to the delineation of the ideal than the
scrutiny of the hidden depths in the immaterial nature of man. I need not to ramble over earth
and sky to discover a wondrous object woven of contrasts, of greatness and littleness infinite,
of intense gloom and of amazing brightness--capable at once of exciting pity, admiration, terror,
contempt. I find that object in myself. Man springs out of nothing, crosses time, and disappears
forever in the bosom of God; he is seen but for a moment, staggering on the verge of the two
abysses, and there he is lost. If man were wholly ignorant of himself, he would have no poetry
in him; for it is impossible to describe what the mind does not conceive. If man clearly discerned
his own nature, his imagination would remain idle, and would have nothing to add to the picture.
But the nature of man is sufficiently disclosed for him to apprehend something of himself;
and sufficiently obscure for all the rest to be plunged in thick darkness, in which he gropes
forever--and forever in vain--to lay hold on some completer notion of his being.

Amongst a democratic people poetry will not be fed with legendary lays or the memorials of
old traditions. The poet will not attempt to people the universe with supernatural beings in
whom his readers and his own fancy have ceased to believe; nor will he present virtues and
vices in the mask of frigid personification, which are better received under their own features.
All these resources fail him; but Man remains, and the poet needs no more. The destinies of
mankind--man himself, taken aloof from his age and his country, and standing in the presence
of Nature and of God, with his passions, his doubts, his rare prosperities, and inconceivable
wretchedness--will become the chief, if not the sole theme of poetry amongst these nations.
Experience may confirm this assertion, if we consider the productions of the greatest poets
who have appeared since the world has been turned to democracy. The authors of our age who
have so admirably delineated the features of Faust, Childe Harold, Rene, and Jocelyn, did not
seek to record the actions of an individual, but to enlarge and to throw light on some of the
obscurer recesses of the human heart. Such are the poems of democracy. The principle of equality
does not then destroy all the subjects of poetry: it renders them less numerous, but more vast.

Chapter XVIII: Of The Inflated Style Of American Writers And Orators

I have frequently remarked that the Americans, who generally treat of business in clear, plain
language, devoid of all ornament, and so extremely simple as to be often coarse, are apt to
become inflated as soon as they attempt a more poetical diction. They then vent their pomposity
from one end of a harangue to the other; and to hear them lavish imagery on every occasion,
one might fancy that they never spoke of anything with simplicity. The English are more rarely
given to a similar failing. The cause of this may be pointed out without much difficulty. In
democratic communities each citizen is habitually engaged in the contemplation of a very puny
object, namely himself. If he ever raises his looks higher, he then perceives nothing but the
immense form of society at large, or the still more imposing aspect of mankind. His ideas are
all either extremely minute and clear, or extremely general and vague: what lies between is
an open void. When he has been drawn out of his own sphere, therefore, he always expects that
some amazing object will be offered to his attention; and it is on these terms alone that he
consents to tear himself for an instant from the petty complicated cares which form the charm
and the excitement of his life. This appears to me sufficiently to explain why men in democracies,
whose concerns are in general so paltry, call upon their poets for conceptions so vast and
descriptions so unlimited.

The authors, on their part, do not fail to obey a propensity of which they themselves partake;
they perpetually inflate their imaginations, and expanding them beyond all bounds, they not
unfrequently abandon the great in order to reach the gigantic. By these means they hope to
attract the observation of the multitude, and to fix it easily upon themselves: nor are their
hopes disappointed; for as the multitude seeks for nothing in poetry but subjects of very vast
dimensions, it has neither the time to measure with accuracy the proportions of all the subjects
set before it, nor a taste sufficiently correct to perceive at once in what respect they are
out of proportion. The author and the public at once vitiate one another.

We have just seen that amongst democratic nations, the sources of poetry are grand, but not
abundant. They are soon exhausted: and poets, not finding the elements of the ideal in what
is real and true, abandon them entirely and create monsters. I do not fear that the poetry
of democratic nations will prove too insipid, or that it will fly too near the ground; I rather
apprehend that it will be forever losing itself in the clouds, and that it will range at last
to purely imaginary regions. I fear that the productions of democratic poets may often be surcharged
with immense and incoherent imagery, with exaggerated descriptions and strange creations; and
that the fantastic beings of their brain may sometimes make us regret the world of reality.

Chapter XIX: Some Observations On The Drama Amongst Democratic Nations

When the revolution which subverts the social and political state of an aristocratic people
begins to penetrate into literature, it generally first manifests itself in the drama, and
it always remains conspicuous there. The spectator of a dramatic piece is, to a certain extent,
taken by surprise by the impression it conveys. He has no time to refer to his memory, or to
consult those more able to judge than himself. It does not occur to him to resist the new literary
tendencies which begin to be felt by him; he yields to them before he knows what they are.
Authors are very prompt in discovering which way the taste of the public is thus secretly inclined.
They shape their productions accordingly; and the literature of the stage, after having served
to indicate the approaching literary revolution, speedily completes its accomplishment. If
you would judge beforehand of the literature of a people which is lapsing into democracy, study
its dramatic productions.

The literature of the stage, moreover, even amongst aristocratic nations, constitutes the most
democratic part of their literature. No kind of literary gratification is so much within the
reach of the multitude as that which is derived from theatrical representations. Neither preparation
nor study is required to enjoy them: they lay hold on you in the midst of your prejudices and
your ignorance. When the yet untutored love of the pleasures of the mind begins to affect a
class of the community, it instantly draws them to the stage. The theatres of aristocratic
nations have always been filled with spectators not belonging to the aristocracy. At the theatre
alone the higher ranks mix with the middle and the lower classes; there alone do the former
consent to listen to the opinion of the latter, or at least to allow them to give an opinion
at all. At the theatre, men of cultivation and of literary attainments have always had more
difficulty than elsewhere in making their taste prevail over that of the people, and in preventing
themselves from being carried away by the latter. The pit has frequently made laws for the boxes.

If it be difficult for an aristocracy to prevent the people from getting the upper hand in
the theatre, it will readily be understood that the people will be supreme there when democratic
principles have crept into the laws and manners--when ranks are intermixed--when minds, as
well as fortunes, are brought more nearly together--and when the upper class has lost, with
its hereditary wealth, its power, its precedents, and its leisure. The tastes and propensities
natural to democratic nations, in respect to literature, will therefore first be discernible
in the drama, and it may be foreseen that they will break out there with vehemence. In written
productions, the literary canons of aristocracy will be gently, gradually, and, so to speak,
legally modified; at the theatre they will be riotously overthrown. The drama brings out most
of the good qualities, and almost all the defects, inherent in democratic literature. Democratic
peoples hold erudition very cheap, and care but little for what occurred at Rome and Athens;
they want to hear something which concerns themselves, and the delineation of the present age
is what they demand.

When the heroes and the manners of antiquity are frequently brought upon the stage, and dramatic
authors faithfully observe the rules of antiquated precedent, that is enough to warrant a conclusion
that the democratic classes have not yet got the upper hand of the theatres. Racine makes a
very humble apology in the preface to the "Britannicus" for having disposed of Junia amongst
the Vestals, who, according to Aulus Gellius, he says, "admitted no one below six years of
age nor above ten." We may be sure that he would neither have accused himself of the offence,
nor defended himself from censure, if he had written for our contemporaries. A fact of this
kind not only illustrates the state of literature at the time when it occurred, but also that
of society itself. A democratic stage does not prove that the nation is in a state of democracy,
for, as we have just seen, even in aristocracies it may happen that democratic tastes affect
the drama; but when the spirit of aristocracy reigns exclusively on the stage, the fact irrefragably
demonstrates that the whole of society is aristocratic; and it may be boldly inferred that
the same lettered and learned class which sways the dramatic writers commands the people and
governs the country.

The refined tastes and the arrogant bearing of an aristocracy will rarely fail to lead it,
when it manages the stage, to make a kind of selection in human nature. Some of the conditions
of society claim its chief interest; and the scenes which delineate their manners are preferred
upon the stage. Certain virtues, and even certain vices, are thought more particularly to deserve
to figure there; and they are applauded whilst all others are excluded. Upon the stage, as
well as elsewhere, an aristocratic audience will only meet personages of quality, and share
the emotions of kings. The same thing applies to style: an aristocracy is apt to impose upon
dramatic authors certain modes of expression which give the key in which everything is to be
delivered. By these means the stage frequently comes to delineate only one side of man, or
sometimes even to represent what is not to be met with in human nature at all--to rise above
nature and to go beyond it.

In democratic communities the spectators have no such partialities, and they rarely display
any such antipathies: they like to see upon the stage that medley of conditions, of feelings,
and of opinions, which occurs before their eyes. The drama becomes more striking, more common,
and more true. Sometimes, however, those who write for the stage in democracies also transgress
the bounds of human nature--but it is on a different side from their predecessors. By seeking
to represent in minute detail the little singularities of the moment and the peculiar characteristics
of certain personages, they forget to portray the general features of the race.

When the democratic classes rule the stage, they introduce as much license in the manner of
treating subjects as in the choice of them. As the love of the drama is, of all literary tastes,
that which is most natural to democratic nations, the number of authors and of spectators,
as well as of theatrical representations, is constantly increasing amongst these communities.
A multitude composed of elements so different, and scattered in so many different places, cannot
acknowledge the same rules or submit to the same laws. No concurrence is possible amongst judges
so numerous, who know not when they may meet again; and therefore each pronounces his own sentence
on the piece. If the effect of democracy is generally to question the authority of all literary
rules and conventions, on the stage it abolishes them altogether, and puts in their place nothing
but the whim of each author and of each public.

The drama also displays in an especial manner the truth of what I have said before in speaking
more generally of style and art in democratic literature. In reading the criticisms which were
occasioned by the dramatic productions of the age of Louis XIV, one is surprised to remark
the great stress which the public laid on the probability of the plot, and the importance which
was attached to the perfect consistency of the characters, and to their doing nothing which
could not be easily explained and understood. The value which was set upon the forms of language
at that period, and the paltry strife about words with which dramatic authors were assailed,
are no less surprising. It would seem that the men of the age of Louis XIV attached very exaggerated
importance to those details, which may be perceived in the study, but which escape attention
on the stage. For, after all, the principal object of a dramatic piece is to be performed,
and its chief merit is to affect the audience. But the audience and the readers in that age
were the same: on quitting the theatre they called up the author for judgment to their own
firesides. In democracies, dramatic pieces are listened to, but not read. Most of those who
frequent the amusements of the stage do not go there to seek the pleasures of the mind, but
the keen emotions of the heart. They do not expect to hear a fine literary work, but to see
a play; and provided the author writes the language of his country correctly enough to be understood,
and that his characters excite curiosity and awaken sympathy, the audience are satisfied. They
ask no more of fiction, and immediately return to real life. Accuracy of style is therefore
less required, because the attentive observance of its rules is less perceptible on the stage.
As for the probability of the plot, it is incompatible with perpetual novelty, surprise, and
rapidity of invention. It is therefore neglected, and the public excuses the neglect. You may
be sure that if you succeed in bringing your audience into the presence of something that affects
them, they will not care by what road you brought them there; and they will never reproach
you for having excited their emotions in spite of dramatic rules.

The Americans very broadly display all the different propensities which I have here described
when they go to the theatres; but it must be acknowledged that as yet a very small number of
them go to theatres at all. Although playgoers and plays have prodigiously increased in the
United States in the last forty years, the population indulges in this kind of amusement with
the greatest reserve. This is attributable to peculiar causes, which the reader is already
acquainted with, and of which a few words will suffice to remind him. The Puritans who founded
the American republics were not only enemies to amusements, but they professed an especial
abhorrence for the stage. They considered it as an abominable pastime; and as long as their
principles prevailed with undivided sway, scenic performances were wholly unknown amongst them.
These opinions of the first fathers of the colony have left very deep marks on the minds of
their descendants. The extreme regularity of habits and the great strictness of manners which
are observable in the United States, have as yet opposed additional obstacles to the growth
of dramatic art. There are no dramatic subjects in a country which has witnessed no great political
catastrophes, and in which love invariably leads by a straight and easy road to matrimony.
People who spend every day in the week in making money, and the Sunday in going to church,
have nothing to invite the muse of Comedy.

A single fact suffices to show that the stage is not very popular in the United States. The
Americans, whose laws allow of the utmost freedom and even license of language in all other
respects, have nevertheless subjected their dramatic authors to a sort of censorship. Theatrical
performances can only take place by permission of the municipal authorities. This may serve
to show how much communities are like individuals; they surrender themselves unscrupulously
to their ruling passions, and afterwards take the greatest care not to yield too much to the
vehemence of tastes which they do not possess.

No portion of literature is connected by closer or more numerous ties with the present condition
of society than the drama. The drama of one period can never be suited to the following age,
if in the interval an important revolution has changed the manners and the laws of the nation.
The great authors of a preceding age may be read; but pieces written for a different public
will not be followed. The dramatic authors of the past live only in books. The traditional
taste of certain individuals, vanity, fashion, or the genius of an actor may sustain or resuscitate
for a time the aristocratic drama amongst a democracy; but it will speedily fall away of itself--not
overthrown, but abandoned.

Chapter XX: Characteristics Of Historians In Democratic Ages

Historians who write in aristocratic ages are wont to refer all occurrences to the particular
will or temper of certain individuals; and they are apt to attribute the most important revolutions
to very slight accidents. They trace out the smallest causes with sagacity, and frequently
leave the greatest unperceived. Historians who live in democratic ages exhibit precisely opposite
characteristics. Most of them attribute hardly any influence to the individual over the destiny
of the race, nor to citizens over the fate of a people; but, on the other hand, they assign
great general causes to all petty incidents. These contrary tendencies explain each other.

When the historian of aristocratic ages surveys the theatre of the world, he at once perceives
a very small number of prominent actors, who manage the whole piece. These great personages,
who occupy the front of the stage, arrest the observation, and fix it on themselves; and whilst
the historian is bent on penetrating the secret motives which make them speak and act, the
rest escape his memory. The importance of the things which some men are seen to do, gives him
an exaggerated estimate of the influence which one man may possess; and naturally leads him
to think, that in order to explain the impulses of the multitude, it is necessary to refer
them to the particular influence of some one individual.

When, on the contrary, all the citizens are independent of one another, and each of them is
individually weak, no one is seen to exert a great, or still less a lasting power, over the
community. At first sight, individuals appear to be absolutely devoid of any influence over
it; and society would seem to advance alone by the free and voluntary concurrence of all the
men who compose it. This naturally prompts the mind to search for that general reason which
operates upon so many men's faculties at the same time, and turns them simultaneously in the
same direction.

I am very well convinced that even amongst democratic nations, the genius, the vices, or the
virtues of certain individuals retard or accelerate the natural current of a people's history:
but causes of this secondary and fortuitous nature are infinitely more various, more concealed,
more complex, less powerful, and consequently less easy to trace in periods of equality than
in ages of aristocracy, when the task of the historian is simply to detach from the mass of
general events the particular influences of one man or of a few men. In the former case the
historian is soon wearied by the toil; his mind loses itself in this labyrinth; and, in his
inability clearly to discern or conspicuously to point out the influence of individuals, he
denies their existence. He prefers talking about the characteristics of race, the physical
conformation of the country, or the genius of civilization, which abridges his own labors,
and satisfies his reader far better at less cost.

M. de Lafayette says somewhere in his "Memoirs" that the exaggerated system of general causes
affords surprising consolations to second-rate statesmen. I will add, that its effects are
not less consolatory to second-rate historians; it can always furnish a few mighty reasons
to extricate them from the most difficult part of their work, and it indulges the indolence
or incapacity of their minds, whilst it confers upon them the honors of deep thinking.

For myself, I am of opinion that at all times one great portion of the events of this world
are attributable to general facts, and another to special influences. These two kinds of cause
are always in operation: their proportion only varies. General facts serve to explain more
things in democratic than in aristocratic ages, and fewer things are then assignable to special
influences. At periods of aristocracy the reverse takes place: special influences are stronger,
general causes weaker--unless indeed we consider as a general cause the fact itself of the
inequality of conditions, which allows some individuals to baffle the natural tendencies of
all the rest. The historians who seek to describe what occurs in democratic societies are right,
therefore, in assigning much to general causes, and in devoting their chief attention to discover
them; but they are wrong in wholly denying the special influence of individuals, because they
cannot easily trace or follow it.

The historians who live in democratic ages are not only prone to assign a great cause to every
incident, but they are also given to connect incidents together, so as to deduce a system from
them. In aristocratic ages, as the attention of historians is constantly drawn to individuals,
the connection of events escapes them; or rather, they do not believe in any such connection.
To them the clew of history seems every instant crossed and broken by the step of man. In democratic
ages, on the contrary, as the historian sees much more of actions than of actors, he may easily
establish some kind of sequency and methodical order amongst the former. Ancient literature,
which is so rich in fine historical compositions, does not contain a single great historical
system, whilst the poorest of modern literatures abound with them. It would appear that the
ancient historians did not make sufficient use of those general theories which our historical
writers are ever ready to carry to excess.

Those who write in democratic ages have another more dangerous tendency. When the traces of
individual action upon nations are lost, it often happens that the world goes on to move, though
the moving agent is no longer discoverable. As it becomes extremely difficult to discern and
to analyze the reasons which, acting separately on the volition of each member of the community,
concur in the end to produce movement in the old mass, men are led to believe that this movement
is involuntary, and that societies unconsciously obey some superior force ruling over them.
But even when the general fact which governs the private volition of all individuals is supposed
to be discovered upon the earth, the principle of human free-will is not secure. A cause sufficiently
extensive to affect millions of men at once, and sufficiently strong to bend them all together
in the same direction, may well seem irresistible: having seen that mankind do yield to it,
the mind is close upon the inference that mankind cannot resist it.

Historians who live in democratic ages, then, not only deny that the few have any power of
acting upon the destiny of a people, but they deprive the people themselves of the power of
modifying their own condition, and they subject them either to an inflexible Providence, or
to some blind necessity. According to them, each nation is indissolubly bound by its position,
its origin, its precedents, and its character, to a certain lot which no efforts can ever change.
They involve generation in generation, and thus, going back from age to age, and from necessity
to necessity, up to the origin of the world, they forge a close and enormous chain, which girds
and binds the human race. To their minds it is not enough to show what events have occurred:
they would fain show that events could not have occurred otherwise. They take a nation arrived
at a certain stage of its history, and they affirm that it could not but follow the track which
brought it thither. It is easier to make such an assertion than to show by what means the nation
might have adopted a better course.

In reading the historians of aristocratic ages, and especially those of antiquity, it would
seem that, to be master of his lot, and to govern his fellow-creatures, man requires only to
be master of himself. In perusing the historical volumes which our age has produced, it would
seem that man is utterly powerless over himself and over all around him. The historians of
antiquity taught how to command: those of our time teach only how to obey; in their writings
the author often appears great, but humanity is always diminutive. If this doctrine of necessity,
which is so attractive to those who write history in democratic ages, passes from authors to
their readers, till it infects the whole mass of the community and gets possession of the public
mind, it will soon paralyze the activity of modern society, and reduce Christians to the level
of the Turks. I would moreover observe, that such principles are peculiarly dangerous at the
period at which we are arrived. Our contemporaries are but too prone to doubt of the human
free-will, because each of them feels himself confined on every side by his own weakness; but
they are still willing to acknowledge the strength and independence of men united in society.
Let not this principle be lost sight of; for the great object in our time is to raise the faculties
of men, not to complete their prostration.

Chapter XXI: Of Parliamentary Eloquence In The United States

Amongst aristocratic nations all the members of the community are connected with and dependent
upon each other; the graduated scale of different ranks acts as a tie, which keeps everyone
in his proper place and the whole body in subordination. Something of the same kind always
occurs in the political assemblies of these nations. Parties naturally range themselves under
certain leaders, whom they obey by a sort of instinct, which is only the result of habits contracted
elsewhere. They carry the manners of general society into the lesser assemblage.

In democratic countries it often happens that a great number of citizens are tending to the
same point; but each one only moves thither, or at least flatters himself that he moves, of
his own accord. Accustomed to regulate his doings by personal impulse alone, he does not willingly
submit to dictation from without. This taste and habit of independence accompany him into the
councils of the nation. If he consents to connect himself with other men in the prosecution
of the same purpose, at least he chooses to remain free to contribute to the common success
after his own fashion. Hence it is that in democratic countries parties are so impatient of
control, and are never manageable except in moments of great public danger. Even then, the
authority of leaders, which under such circumstances may be able to make men act or speak,
hardly ever reaches the extent of making them keep silence.

Amongst aristocratic nations the members of political assemblies are at the same time members
of the aristocracy. Each of them enjoys high established rank in his own right, and the position
which he occupies in the assembly is often less important in his eyes than that which he fills
in the country. This consoles him for playing no part in the discussion of public affairs,
and restrains him from too eagerly attempting to play an insignificant one.

In America, it generally happens that a Representative only becomes somebody from his position
in the Assembly. He is therefore perpetually haunted by a craving to acquire importance there,
and he feels a petulant desire to be constantly obtruding his opinions upon the House. His
own vanity is not the only stimulant which urges him on in this course, but that of his constituents,
and the continual necessity of propitiating them. Amongst aristocratic nations a member of
the legislature is rarely in strict dependence upon his constituents: he is frequently to them
a sort of unavoidable representative; sometimes they are themselves strictly dependent upon
him; and if at length they reject him, he may easily get elected elsewhere, or, retiring from
public life, he may still enjoy the pleasures of splendid idleness. In a democratic country
like the United States a Representative has hardly ever a lasting hold on the minds of his
constituents. However small an electoral body may be, the fluctuations of democracy are constantly
changing its aspect; it must, therefore, be courted unceasingly. He is never sure of his supporters,
and, if they forsake him, he is left without a resource; for his natural position is not sufficiently
elevated for him to be easily known to those not close to him; and, with the complete state
of independence prevailing among the people, he cannot hope that his friends or the government
will send him down to be returned by an electoral body unacquainted with him. The seeds of
his fortune are, therefore, sown in his own neighborhood; from that nook of earth he must start,
to raise himself to the command of a people and to influence the destinies of the world. Thus
it is natural that in democratic countries the members of political assemblies think more of
their constituents than of their party, whilst in aristocracies they think more of their party
than of their constituents.

But what ought to be said to gratify constituents is not always what ought to be said in order
to serve the party to which Representatives profess to belong. The general interest of a party
frequently demands that members belonging to it should not speak on great questions which they
understand imperfectly; that they should speak but little on those minor questions which impede
the great ones; lastly, and for the most part, that they should not speak at all. To keep silence
is the most useful service that an indifferent spokesman can render to the commonwealth. Constituents,
however, do not think so. The population of a district sends a representative to take a part
in the government of a country, because they entertain a very lofty notion of his merits. As
men appear greater in proportion to the littleness of the objects by which they are surrounded,
it may be assumed that the opinion entertained of the delegate will be so much the higher as
talents are more rare among his constituents. It will therefore frequently happen that the
less constituents have to expect from their representative, the more they will anticipate from
him; and, however incompetent he may be, they will not fail to call upon him for signal exertions,
corresponding to the rank they have conferred upon him.

Independently of his position as a legislator of the State, electors also regard their Representative
as the natural patron of the constituency in the Legislature; they almost consider him as the
proxy of each of his supporters, and they flatter themselves that he will not be less zealous
in defense of their private interests than of those of the country. Thus electors are well
assured beforehand that the Representative of their choice will be an orator; that he will
speak often if he can, and that in case he is forced to refrain, he will strive at any rate
to compress into his less frequent orations an inquiry into all the great questions of state,
combined with a statement of all the petty grievances they have themselves to complain to;
so that, though he be not able to come forward frequently, he should on each occasion prove
what he is capable of doing; and that, instead of perpetually lavishing his powers, he should
occasionally condense them in a small compass, so as to furnish a sort of complete and brilliant
epitome of his constituents and of himself. On these terms they will vote for him at the next
election. These conditions drive worthy men of humble abilities to despair, who, knowing their
own powers, would never voluntarily have come forward. But thus urged on, the Representative
begins to speak, to the great alarm of his friends; and rushing imprudently into the midst
of the most celebrated orators, he perplexes the debate and wearies the House.

All laws which tend to make the Representative more dependent on the elector, not only affect
the conduct of the legislators, as I have remarked elsewhere, but also their language. They
exercise a simultaneous influence on affairs themselves, and on the manner in which affairs
are discussed.

There is hardly a member of Congress who can make up his mind to go home without having despatched
at least one speech to his constituents; nor who will endure any interruption until he has
introduced into his harangue whatever useful suggestions may be made touching the four-and-twenty
States of which the Union is composed, and especially the district which he represents. He
therefore presents to the mind of his auditors a succession of great general truths (which
he himself only comprehends, and expresses, confusedly), and of petty minutia, which he is
but too able to discover and to point out. The consequence is that the debates of that great
assembly are frequently vague and perplexed, and that they seem rather to drag their slow length
along than to advance towards a distinct object. Some such state of things will, I believe,
always arise in the public assemblies of democracies.

Propitious circumstances and good laws might succeed in drawing to the legislature of a democratic
people men very superior to those who are returned by the Americans to Congress; but nothing
will ever prevent the men of slender abilities who sit there from obtruding themselves with
complacency, and in all ways, upon the public. The evil does not appear to me to be susceptible
of entire cure, because it not only originates in the tactics of that assembly, but in its
constitution and in that of the country. The inhabitants of the United States seem themselves
to consider the matter in this light; and they show their long experience of parliamentary
life not by abstaining from making bad speeches, but by courageously submitting to hear them
made. They are resigned to it, as to an evil which they know to be inevitable.

We have shown the petty side of political debates in democratic assemblies--let us now exhibit
the more imposing one. The proceedings within the Parliament of England for the last one hundred
and fifty years have never occasioned any great sensation out of that country; the opinions
and feelings expressed by the speakers have never awakened much sympathy, even amongst the
nations placed nearest to the great arena of British liberty; whereas Europe was excited by
the very first debates which took place in the small colonial assemblies of America at the
time of the Revolution. This was attributable not only to particular and fortuitous circumstances,
but to general and lasting causes. I can conceive nothing more admirable or more powerful than
a great orator debating on great questions of state in a democratic assembly. As no particular
class is ever represented there by men commissioned to defend its own interests, it is always
to the whole nation, and in the name of the whole nation, that the orator speaks. This expands
his thoughts, and heightens his power of language. As precedents have there but little weight-as
there are no longer any privileges attached to certain property, nor any rights inherent in
certain bodies or in certain individuals, the mind must have recourse to general truths derived
from human nature to resolve the particular question under discussion. Hence the political
debates of a democratic people, however small it may be, have a degree of breadth which frequently
renders them attractive to mankind. All men are interested by them, because they treat of man,
who is everywhere the same. Amongst the greatest aristocratic nations, on the contrary, the
most general questions are almost always argued on some special grounds derived from the practice
of a particular time, or the rights of a particular class; which interest that class alone,
or at most the people amongst whom that class happens to exist. It is owing to this, as much
as to the greatness of the French people, and the favorable disposition of the nations who
listen to them, that the great effect which the French political debates sometimes produce
in the world, must be attributed. The orators of France frequently speak to mankind, even when
they are addressing their countrymen only.

Section 2: Influence of Democracy on the Feelings of Americans

Chapter I: Why Democratic Nations Show A More Ardent And Enduring Love Of Equality Than Of Liberty

The first and most intense passion which is engendered by the equality of conditions is, I
need hardly say, the love of that same equality. My readers will therefore not be surprised
that I speak of its before all others. Everybody has remarked that in our time, and especially
in France, this passion for equality is every day gaining ground in the human heart. It has
been said a hundred times that our contemporaries are far more ardently and tenaciously attached
to equality than to freedom; but as I do not find that the causes of the fact have been sufficiently
analyzed, I shall endeavor to point them out.

It is possible to imagine an extreme point at which freedom and equality would meet and be
confounded together. Let us suppose that all the members of the community take a part in the
government, and that each of them has an equal right to take a part in it. As none is different
from his fellows, none can exercise a tyrannical power: men will be perfectly free, because
they will all be entirely equal; and they will all be perfectly equal, because they will be
entirely free. To this ideal state democratic nations tend. Such is the completest form that
equality can assume upon earth; but there are a thousand others which, without being equally
perfect, are not less cherished by those nations.

The principle of equality may be established in civil society, without prevailing in the political
world. Equal rights may exist of indulging in the same pleasures, of entering the same professions,
of frequenting the same places--in a word, of living in the same manner and seeking wealth
by the same means, although all men do not take an equal share in the government. A kind of
equality may even be established in the political world, though there should be no political
freedom there. A man may be the equal of all his countrymen save one, who is the master of
all without distinction, and who selects equally from among them all the agents of his power.
Several other combinations might be easily imagined, by which very great equality would be
united to institutions more or less free, or even to institutions wholly without freedom. Although
men cannot become absolutely equal unless they be entirely free, and consequently equality,
pushed to its furthest extent, may be confounded with freedom, yet there is good reason for
distinguishing the one from the other. The taste which men have for liberty, and that which
they feel for equality, are, in fact, two different things; and I am not afraid to add that,
amongst democratic nations, they are two unequal things.

Upon close inspection, it will be seen that there is in every age some peculiar and preponderating
fact with which all others are connected; this fact almost always gives birth to some pregnant
idea or some ruling passion, which attracts to itself, and bears away in its course, all the
feelings and opinions of the time: it is like a great stream, towards which each of the surrounding
rivulets seems to flow. Freedom has appeared in the world at different times and under various
forms; it has not been exclusively bound to any social condition, and it is not confined to
democracies. Freedom cannot, therefore, form the distinguishing characteristic of democratic
ages. The peculiar and preponderating fact which marks those ages as its own is the equality
of conditions; the ruling passion of men in those periods is the love of this equality. Ask
not what singular charm the men of democratic ages find in being equal, or what special reasons
they may have for clinging so tenaciously to equality rather than to the other advantages which
society holds out to them: equality is the distinguishing characteristic of the age they live
in; that, of itself, is enough to explain that they prefer it to all the rest.

But independently of this reason there are several others, which will at all times habitually
lead men to prefer equality to freedom. If a people could ever succeed in destroying, or even
in diminishing, the equality which prevails in its own body, this could only be accomplished
by long and laborious efforts. Its social condition must be modified, its laws abolished, its
opinions superseded, its habits changed, its manners corrupted. But political liberty is more
easily lost; to neglect to hold it fast is to allow it to escape. Men therefore not only cling
to equality because it is dear to them; they also adhere to it because they think it will last
forever.

That political freedom may compromise in its excesses the tranquillity, the property, the lives
of individuals, is obvious to the narrowest and most unthinking minds. But, on the contrary,
none but attentive and clear-sighted men perceive the perils with which equality threatens
us, and they commonly avoid pointing them out. They know that the calamities they apprehend
are remote, and flatter themselves that they will only fall upon future generations, for which
the present generation takes but little thought. The evils which freedom sometimes brings with
it are immediate; they are apparent to all, and all are more or less affected by them. The
evils which extreme equality may produce are slowly disclosed; they creep gradually into the
social frame; they are only seen at intervals, and at the moment at which they become most
violent habit already causes them to be no longer felt. The advantages which freedom brings
are only shown by length of time; and it is always easy to mistake the cause in which they
originate. The advantages of equality are instantaneous, and they may constantly be traced
from their source. Political liberty bestows exalted pleasures, from time to time, upon a certain
number of citizens. Equality every day confers a number of small enjoyments on every man. The
charms of equality are every instant felt, and are within the reach of all; the noblest hearts
are not insensible to them, and the most vulgar souls exult in them. The passion which equality
engenders must therefore be at once strong and general. Men cannot enjoy political liberty
unpurchased by some sacrifices, and they never obtain it without great exertions. But the pleasures
of equality are self-proffered: each of the petty incidents of life seems to occasion them,
and in order to taste them nothing is required but to live.

Democratic nations are at all times fond of equality, but there are certain epochs at which
the passion they entertain for it swells to the height of fury. This occurs at the moment when
the old social system, long menaced, completes its own destruction after a last intestine struggle,
and when the barriers of rank are at length thrown down. At such times men pounce upon equality
as their booty, and they cling to it as to some precious treasure which they fear to lose.
The passion for equality penetrates on every side into men's hearts, expands there, and fills
them entirely. Tell them not that by this blind surrender of themselves to an exclusive passion
they risk their dearest interests: they are deaf. Show them not freedom escaping from their
grasp, whilst they are looking another way: they are blind--or rather, they can discern but
one sole object to be desired in the universe.

What I have said is applicable to all democratic nations: what I am about to say concerns the
French alone. Amongst most modern nations, and especially amongst all those of the Continent
of Europe, the taste and the idea of freedom only began to exist and to extend themselves at
the time when social conditions were tending to equality, and as a consequence of that very
equality. Absolute kings were the most efficient levellers of ranks amongst their subjects.
Amongst these nations equality preceded freedom: equality was therefore a fact of some standing
when freedom was still a novelty: the one had already created customs, opinions, and laws belonging
to it, when the other, alone and for the first time, came into actual existence. Thus the latter
was still only an affair of opinion and of taste, whilst the former had already crept into
the habits of the people, possessed itself of their manners, and given a particular turn to
the smallest actions of their lives. Can it be wondered that the men of our own time prefer
the one to the other?

I think that democratic communities have a natural taste for freedom: left to themselves, they
will seek it, cherish it, and view any privation of it with regret. But for equality, their
passion is ardent, insatiable, incessant, invincible: they call for equality in freedom; and
if they cannot obtain that, they still call for equality in slavery. They will endure poverty,
servitude, barbarism--but they will not endure aristocracy. This is true at all times, and
especially true in our own. All men and all powers seeking to cope with this irresistible passion,
will be overthrown and destroyed by it. In our age, freedom cannot be established without it,
and despotism itself cannot reign without its support.

Chapter II: Of Individualism In Democratic Countries

I have shown how it is that in ages of equality every man seeks for his opinions within himself:
I am now about to show how it is that, in the same ages, all his feelings are turned towards
himself alone. Individualism *a is a novel expression, to which a novel idea has given birth.
Our fathers were only acquainted with egotism. Egotism is a passionate and exaggerated love
of self, which leads a man to connect everything with his own person, and to prefer himself
to everything in the world. Individualism is a mature and calm feeling, which disposes each
member of the community to sever himself from the mass of his fellow-creatures; and to draw
apart with his family and his friends; so that, after he has thus formed a little circle of
his own, he willingly leaves society at large to itself. Egotism originates in blind instinct:
individualism proceeds from erroneous judgment more than from depraved feelings; it originates
as much in the deficiencies of the mind as in the perversity of the heart. Egotism blights
the germ of all virtue; individualism, at first, only saps the virtues of public life; but,
in the long run, it attacks and destroys all others, and is at length absorbed in downright
egotism. Egotism is a vice as old as the world, which does not belong to one form of society
more than to another: individualism is of democratic origin, and it threatens to spread in
the same ratio as the equality of conditions.

[Footnote a: [I adopt the expression of the original, however strange it may seem to the English
ear, partly because it illustrates the remark on the introduction of general terms into democratic
language which was made in a preceding chapter, and partly because I know of no English word
exactly equivalent to the expression. The chapter itself defines the meaning attached to it
by the author.--Translator's Note.]]

Amongst aristocratic nations, as families remain for centuries in the same condition, often
on the same spot, all generations become as it were contemporaneous. A man almost always knows
his forefathers, and respects them: he thinks he already sees his remote descendants, and he
loves them. He willingly imposes duties on himself towards the former and the latter; and he
will frequently sacrifice his personal gratifications to those who went before and to those
who will come after him. Aristocratic institutions have, moreover, the effect of closely binding
every man to several of his fellow-citizens. As the classes of an aristocratic people are strongly
marked and permanent, each of them is regarded by its own members as a sort of lesser country,
more tangible and more cherished than the country at large. As in aristocratic communities
all the citizens occupy fixed positions, one above the other, the result is that each of them
always sees a man above himself whose patronage is necessary to him, and below himself another
man whose co-operation he may claim. Men living in aristocratic ages are therefore almost always
closely attached to something placed out of their own sphere, and they are often disposed to
forget themselves. It is true that in those ages the notion of human fellowship is faint, and
that men seldom think of sacrificing themselves for mankind; but they often sacrifice themselves
for other men. In democratic ages, on the contrary, when the duties of each individual to the
race are much more clear, devoted service to any one man becomes more rare; the bond of human
affection is extended, but it is relaxed.

Amongst democratic nations new families are constantly springing up, others are constantly
falling away, and all that remain change their condition; the woof of time is every instant
broken, and the track of generations effaced. Those who went before are soon forgotten; of
those who will come after no one has any idea: the interest of man is confined to those in
close propinquity to himself. As each class approximates to other classes, and intermingles
with them, its members become indifferent and as strangers to one another. Aristocracy had
made a chain of all the members of the community, from the peasant to the king: democracy breaks
that chain, and severs every link of it. As social conditions become more equal, the number
of persons increases who, although they are neither rich enough nor powerful enough to exercise
any great influence over their fellow-creatures, have nevertheless acquired or retained sufficient
education and fortune to satisfy their own wants. They owe nothing to any man, they expect
nothing from any man; they acquire the habit of always considering themselves as standing alone,
and they are apt to imagine that their whole destiny is in their own hands. Thus not only does
democracy make every man forget his ancestors, but it hides his descendants, and separates
his contemporaries from him; it throws him back forever upon himself alone, and threatens in
the end to confine him entirely within the solitude of his own heart.

Chapter III: Individualism Stronger At The Close Of A Democratic Revolution Than At Other Periods

The period when the construction of democratic society upon the ruins of an aristocracy has
just been completed, is especially that at which this separation of men from one another, and
the egotism resulting from it, most forcibly strike the observation. Democratic communities
not only contain a large number of independent citizens, but they are constantly filled with
men who, having entered but yesterday upon their independent condition, are intoxicated with
their new power. They entertain a presumptuous confidence in their strength, and as they do
not suppose that they can henceforward ever have occasion to claim the assistance of their
fellow-creatures, they do not scruple to show that they care for nobody but themselves.

An aristocracy seldom yields without a protracted struggle, in the course of which implacable
animosities are kindled between the different classes of society. These passions survive the
victory, and traces of them may be observed in the midst of the democratic confusion which
ensues. Those members of the community who were at the top of the late gradations of rank cannot
immediately forget their former greatness; they will long regard themselves as aliens in the
midst of the newly composed society. They look upon all those whom this state of society has
made their equals as oppressors, whose destiny can excite no sympathy; they have lost sight
of their former equals, and feel no longer bound by a common interest to their fate: each of
them, standing aloof, thinks that he is reduced to care for himself alone. Those, on the contrary,
who were formerly at the foot of the social scale, and who have been brought up to the common
level by a sudden revolution, cannot enjoy their newly acquired independence without secret
uneasiness; and if they meet with some of their former superiors on the same footing as themselves,
they stand aloof from them with an expression of triumph and of fear. It is, then, commonly
at the outset of democratic society that citizens are most disposed to live apart. Democracy
leads men not to draw near to their fellow-creatures; but democratic revolutions lead them
to shun each other, and perpetuate in a state of equality the animosities which the state of
inequality engendered. The great advantage of the Americans is that they have arrived at a
state of democracy without having to endure a democratic revolution; and that they are born
equal, instead of becoming so.

Chapter IV: That The Americans Combat The Effects Of Individualism By Free Institutions

Despotism, which is of a very timorous nature, is never more secure of continuance than when
it can keep men asunder; and all is influence is commonly exerted for that purpose. No vice
of the human heart is so acceptable to it as egotism: a despot easily forgives his subjects
for not loving him, provided they do not love each other. He does not ask them to assist him
in governing the State; it is enough that they do not aspire to govern it themselves. He stigmatizes
as turbulent and unruly spirits those who would combine their exertions to promote the prosperity
of the community, and, perverting the natural meaning of words, he applauds as good citizens
those who have no sympathy for any but themselves. Thus the vices which despotism engenders
are precisely those which equality fosters. These two things mutually and perniciously complete
and assist each other. Equality places men side by side, unconnected by any common tie; despotism
raises barriers to keep them asunder; the former predisposes them not to consider their fellow-creatures,
the latter makes general indifference a sort of public virtue.

Despotism then, which is at all times dangerous, is more particularly to be feared in democratic
ages. It is easy to see that in those same ages men stand most in need of freedom. When the
members of a community are forced to attend to public affairs, they are necessarily drawn from
the circle of their own interests, and snatched at times from self-observation. As soon as
a man begins to treat of public affairs in public, he begins to perceive that he is not so
independent of his fellow-men as he had at first imagined, and that, in order to obtain their
support, he must often lend them his co-operation.

When the public is supreme, there is no man who does not feel the value of public goodwill,
or who does not endeavor to court it by drawing to himself the esteem and affection of those
amongst whom he is to live. Many of the passions which congeal and keep asunder human hearts,
are then obliged to retire and hide below the surface. Pride must be dissembled; disdain dares
not break out; egotism fears its own self. Under a free government, as most public offices
are elective, the men whose elevated minds or aspiring hopes are too closely circumscribed
in private life, constantly feel that they cannot do without the population which surrounds
them. Men learn at such times to think of their fellow-men from ambitious motives; and they
frequently find it, in a manner, their interest to forget themselves.

I may here be met by an objection derived from electioneering intrigues, the meannesses of
candidates, and the calumnies of their opponents. These are opportunities for animosity which
occur the oftener the more frequent elections become. Such evils are doubtless great, but they
are transient; whereas the benefits which attend them remain. The desire of being elected may
lead some men for a time to violent hostility; but this same desire leads all men in the long
run mutually to support each other; and if it happens that an election accidentally severs
two friends, the electoral system brings a multitude of citizens permanently together, who
would always have remained unknown to each other. Freedom engenders private animosities, but
despotism gives birth to general indifference.

The Americans have combated by free institutions the tendency of equality to keep men asunder,
and they have subdued it. The legislators of America did not suppose that a general representation
of the whole nation would suffice to ward off a disorder at once so natural to the frame of
democratic society, and so fatal: they also thought that it would be well to infuse political
life into each portion of the territory, in order to multiply to an infinite extent opportunities
of acting in concert for all the members of the community, and to make them constantly feel
their mutual dependence on each other. The plan was a wise one. The general affairs of a country
only engage the attention of leading politicians, who assemble from time to time in the same
places; and as they often lose sight of each other afterwards, no lasting ties are established
between them. But if the object be to have the local affairs of a district conducted by the
men who reside there, the same persons are always in contact, and they are, in a manner, forced
to be acquainted, and to adapt themselves to one another.

It is difficult to draw a man out of his own circle to interest him in the destiny of the State,
because he does not clearly understand what influence the destiny of the State can have upon
his own lot. But if it be proposed to make a road cross the end of his estate, he will see
at a glance that there is a connection between this small public affair and his greatest private
affairs; and he will discover, without its being shown to him, the close tie which unites private
to general interest. Thus, far more may be done by intrusting to the citizens the administration
of minor affairs than by surrendering to them the control of important ones, towards interesting
them in the public welfare, and convincing them that they constantly stand in need one of the
other in order to provide for it. A brilliant achievement may win for you the favor of a people
at one stroke; but to earn the love and respect of the population which surrounds you, a long
succession of little services rendered and of obscure good deeds--a constant habit of kindness,
and an established reputation for disinterestedness--will be required. Local freedom, then,
which leads a great number of citizens to value the affection of their neighbors and of their
kindred, perpetually brings men together, and forces them to help one another, in spite of
the propensities which sever them.

In the United States the more opulent citizens take great care not to stand aloof from the
people; on the contrary, they constantly keep on easy terms with the lower classes: they listen
to them, they speak to them every day. They know that the rich in democracies always stand
in need of the poor; and that in democratic ages you attach a poor man to you more by your
manner than by benefits conferred. The magnitude of such benefits, which sets off the difference
of conditions, causes a secret irritation to those who reap advantage from them; but the charm
of simplicity of manners is almost irresistible: their affability carries men away, and even
their want of polish is not always displeasing. This truth does not take root at once in the
minds of the rich. They generally resist it as long as the democratic revolution lasts, and
they do not acknowledge it immediately after that revolution is accomplished. They are very
ready to do good to the people, but they still choose to keep them at arm's length; they think
that is sufficient, but they are mistaken. They might spend fortunes thus without warming the
hearts of the population around them;--that population does not ask them for the sacrifice
of their money, but of their pride.

It would seem as if every imagination in the United States were upon the stretch to invent
means of increasing the wealth and satisfying the wants of the public. The best-informed inhabitants
of each district constantly use their information to discover new truths which may augment
the general prosperity; and if they have made any such discoveries, they eagerly surrender
them to the mass of the people.

When the vices and weaknesses, frequently exhibited by those who govern in America, are closely
examined, the prosperity of the people occasions--but improperly occasions--surprise. Elected
magistrates do not make the American democracy flourish; it flourishes because the magistrates
are elective.

It would be unjust to suppose that the patriotism and the zeal which every American displays
for the welfare of his fellow-citizens are wholly insincere. Although private interest directs
the greater part of human actions in the United States as well as elsewhere, it does not regulate
them all. I must say that I have often seen Americans make great and real sacrifices to the
public welfare; and I have remarked a hundred instances in which they hardly ever failed to
lend faithful support to each other. The free institutions which the inhabitants of the United
States possess, and the political rights of which they make so much use, remind every citizen,
and in a thousand ways, that he lives in society. They every instant impress upon his mind
the notion that it is the duty, as well as the interest of men, to make themselves useful to
their fellow-creatures; and as he sees no particular ground of animosity to them, since he
is never either their master or their slave, his heart readily leans to the side of kindness.
Men attend to the interests of the public, first by necessity, afterwards by choice: what was
intentional becomes an instinct; and by dint of working for the good of one's fellow citizens,
the habit and the taste for serving them is at length acquired.

Many people in France consider equality of conditions as one evil, and political freedom as
a second. When they are obliged to yield to the former, they strive at least to escape from
the latter. But I contend that in order to combat the evils which equality may produce, there
is only one effectual remedy--namely, political freedom.

Chapter V: Of The Use Which The Americans Make Of Public Associations In Civil Life

I do not propose to speak of those political associations--by the aid of which men endeavor
to defend themselves against the despotic influence of a majority--or against the aggressions
of regal power. That subject I have already treated. If each citizen did not learn, in proportion
as he individually becomes more feeble, and consequently more incapable of preserving his freedom
single-handed, to combine with his fellow-citizens for the purpose of defending it, it is clear
that tyranny would unavoidably increase together with equality.

Those associations only which are formed in civil life, without reference to political objects,
are here adverted to. The political associations which exist in the United States are only
a single feature in the midst of the immense assemblage of associations in that country. Americans
of all ages, all conditions, and all dispositions, constantly form associations. They have
not only commercial and manufacturing companies, in which all take part, but associations of
a thousand other kinds--religious, moral, serious, futile, extensive, or restricted, enormous
or diminutive. The Americans make associations to give entertainments, to found establishments
for education, to build inns, to construct churches, to diffuse books, to send missionaries
to the antipodes; and in this manner they found hospitals, prisons, and schools. If it be proposed
to advance some truth, or to foster some feeling by the encouragement of a great example, they
form a society. Wherever, at the head of some new undertaking, you see the government in France,
or a man of rank in England, in the United States you will be sure to find an association.
I met with several kinds of associations in America, of which I confess I had no previous notion;
and I have often admired the extreme skill with which the inhabitants of the United States
succeed in proposing a common object to the exertions of a great many men, and in getting them
voluntarily to pursue it. I have since travelled over England, whence the Americans have taken
some of their laws and many of their customs; and it seemed to me that the principle of association
was by no means so constantly or so adroitly used in that country. The English often perform
great things singly; whereas the Americans form associations for the smallest undertakings.
It is evident that the former people consider association as a powerful means of action, but
the latter seem to regard it as the only means they have of acting.

Thus the most democratic country on the face of the earth is that in which men have in our
time carried to the highest perfection the art of pursuing in common the object of their common
desires, and have applied this new science to the greatest number of purposes. Is this the
result of accident? or is there in reality any necessary connection between the principle of
association and that of equality? Aristocratic communities always contain, amongst a multitude
of persons who by themselves are powerless, a small number of powerful and wealthy citizens,
each of whom can achieve great undertakings single-handed. In aristocratic societies men do
not need to combine in order to act, because they are strongly held together. Every wealthy
and powerful citizen constitutes the head of a permanent and compulsory association, composed
of all those who are dependent upon him, or whom he makes subservient to the execution of his
designs. Amongst democratic nations, on the contrary, all the citizens are independent and
feeble; they can do hardly anything by themselves, and none of them can oblige his fellow-men
to lend him their assistance. They all, therefore, fall into a state of incapacity, if they
do not learn voluntarily to help each other. If men living in democratic countries had no right
and no inclination to associate for political purposes, their independence would be in great
jeopardy; but they might long preserve their wealth and their cultivation: whereas if they
never acquired the habit of forming associations in ordinary life, civilization itself would
be endangered. A people amongst which individuals should lose the power of achieving great
things single-handed, without acquiring the means of producing them by united exertions, would
soon relapse into barbarism.

Unhappily, the same social condition which renders associations so necessary to democratic
nations, renders their formation more difficult amongst those nations than amongst all others.
When several members of an aristocracy agree to combine, they easily succeed in doing so; as
each of them brings great strength to the partnership, the number of its members may be very
limited; and when the members of an association are limited in number, they may easily become
mutually acquainted, understand each other, and establish fixed regulations. The same opportunities
do not occur amongst democratic nations, where the associated members must always be very numerous
for their association to have any power.

I am aware that many of my countrymen are not in the least embarrassed by this difficulty.
They contend that the more enfeebled and incompetent the citizens become, the more able and
active the government ought to be rendered, in order that society at large may execute what
individuals can no longer accomplish. They believe this answers the whole difficulty, but I
think they are mistaken. A government might perform the part of some of the largest American
companies; and several States, members of the Union, have already attempted it; but what political
power could ever carry on the vast multitude of lesser undertakings which the American citizens
perform every day, with the assistance of the principle of association? It is easy to foresee
that the time is drawing near when man will be less and less able to produce, of himself alone,
the commonest necessaries of life. The task of the governing power will therefore perpetually
increase, and its very efforts will extend it every day. The more it stands in the place of
associations, the more will individuals, losing the notion of combining together, require its
assistance: these are causes and effects which unceasingly engender each other. Will the administration
of the country ultimately assume the management of all the manufacturers, which no single citizen
is able to carry on? And if a time at length arrives, when, in consequence of the extreme subdivision
of landed property, the soil is split into an infinite number of parcels, so that it can only
be cultivated by companies of husbandmen, will it be necessary that the head of the government
should leave the helm of state to follow the plough? The morals and the intelligence of a democratic
people would be as much endangered as its business and manufactures, if the government ever
wholly usurped the place of private companies.

Feelings and opinions are recruited, the heart is enlarged, and the human mind is developed
by no other means than by the reciprocal influence of men upon each other. I have shown that
these influences are almost null in democratic countries; they must therefore be artificially
created, and this can only be accomplished by associations.

When the members of an aristocratic community adopt a new opinion, or conceive a new sentiment,
they give it a station, as it were, beside themselves, upon the lofty platform where they stand;
and opinions or sentiments so conspicuous to the eyes of the multitude are easily introduced
into the minds or hearts of all around. In democratic countries the governing power alone is
naturally in a condition to act in this manner; but it is easy to see that its action is always
inadequate, and often dangerous. A government can no more be competent to keep alive and to
renew the circulation of opinions and feelings amongst a great people, than to manage all the
speculations of productive industry. No sooner does a government attempt to go beyond its political
sphere and to enter upon this new track, than it exercises, even unintentionally, an insupportable
tyranny; for a government can only dictate strict rules, the opinions which it favors are rigidly
enforced, and it is never easy to discriminate between its advice and its commands. Worse still
will be the case if the government really believes itself interested in preventing all circulation
of ideas; it will then stand motionless, and oppressed by the heaviness of voluntary torpor.
Governments therefore should not be the only active powers: associations ought, in democratic
nations, to stand in lieu of those powerful private individuals whom the equality of conditions
has swept away.

As soon as several of the inhabitants of the United States have taken up an opinion or a feeling
which they wish to promote in the world, they look out for mutual assistance; and as soon as
they have found each other out, they combine. From that moment they are no longer isolated
men, but a power seen from afar, whose actions serve for an example, and whose language is
listened to. The first time I heard in the United States that 100,000 men had bound themselves
publicly to abstain from spirituous liquors, it appeared to me more like a joke than a serious
engagement; and I did not at once perceive why these temperate citizens could not content themselves
with drinking water by their own firesides. I at last understood that 300,000 Americans, alarmed
by the progress of drunkenness around them, had made up their minds to patronize temperance.
They acted just in the same way as a man of high rank who should dress very plainly, in order
to inspire the humbler orders with a contempt of luxury. It is probable that if these 100,000
men had lived in France, each of them would singly have memorialized the government to watch
the public-houses all over the kingdom.

Nothing, in my opinion, is more deserving of our attention than the intellectual and moral
associations of America. The political and industrial associations of that country strike us
forcibly; but the others elude our observation, or if we discover them, we understand them
imperfectly, because we have hardly ever seen anything of the kind. It must, however, be acknowledged
that they are as necessary to the American people as the former, and perhaps more so. In democratic
countries the science of association is the mother of science; the progress of all the rest
depends upon the progress it has made. Amongst the laws which rule human societies there is
one which seems to be more precise and clear than all others. If men are to remain civilized,
or to become so, the art of associating together must grow and improve in the same ratio in
which the equality of conditions is increased.

Chapter VI: Of The Relation Between Public Associations And Newspapers

When men are no longer united amongst themselves by firm and lasting ties, it is impossible
to obtain the cooperation of any great number of them, unless you can persuade every man whose
concurrence you require that this private interest obliges him voluntarily to unite his exertions
to the exertions of all the rest. This can only be habitually and conveniently effected by
means of a newspaper; nothing but a newspaper can drop the same thought into a thousand minds
at the same moment. A newspaper is an adviser who does not require to be sought, but who comes
of his own accord, and talks to you briefly every day of the common weal, without distracting
you from your private affairs.

Newspapers therefore become more necessary in proportion as men become more equal, and individualism
more to be feared. To suppose that they only serve to protect freedom would be to diminish
their importance: they maintain civilization. I shall not deny that in democratic countries
newspapers frequently lead the citizens to launch together in very ill-digested schemes; but
if there were no newspapers there would be no common activity. The evil which they produce
is therefore much less than that which they cure.

The effect of a newspaper is not only to suggest the same purpose to a great number of persons,
but also to furnish means for executing in common the designs which they may have singly conceived.
The principal citizens who inhabit an aristocratic country discern each other from afar; and
if they wish to unite their forces, they move towards each other, drawing a multitude of men
after them. It frequently happens, on the contrary, in democratic countries, that a great number
of men who wish or who want to combine cannot accomplish it, because as they are very insignificant
and lost amidst the crowd, they cannot see, and know not where to find, one another. A newspaper
then takes up the notion or the feeling which had occurred simultaneously, but singly, to each
of them. All are then immediately guided towards this beacon; and these wandering minds, which
had long sought each other in darkness, at length meet and unite.

The newspaper brought them together, and the newspaper is still necessary to keep them united.
In order that an association amongst a democratic people should have any power, it must be
a numerous body. The persons of whom it is composed are therefore scattered over a wide extent,
and each of them is detained in the place of his domicile by the narrowness of his income,
or by the small unremitting exertions by which he earns it. Means then must be found to converse
every day without seeing each other, and to take steps in common without having met. Thus hardly
any democratic association can do without newspapers. There is consequently a necessary connection
between public associations and newspapers: newspapers make associations, and associations
make newspapers; and if it has been correctly advanced that associations will increase in number
as the conditions of men become more equal, it is not less certain that the number of newspapers
increases in proportion to that of associations. Thus it is in America that we find at the
same time the greatest number of associations and of newspapers.

This connection between the number of newspapers and that of associations leads us to the discovery
of a further connection between the state of the periodical press and the form of the administration
in a country; and shows that the number of newspapers must diminish or increase amongst a democratic
people, in proportion as its administration is more or less centralized. For amongst democratic
nations the exercise of local powers cannot be intrusted to the principal members of the community
as in aristocracies. Those powers must either be abolished, or placed in the hands of very
large numbers of men, who then in fact constitute an association permanently established by
law for the purpose of administering the affairs of a certain extent of territory; and they
require a journal, to bring to them every day, in the midst of their own minor concerns, some
intelligence of the state of their public weal. The more numerous local powers are, the greater
is the number of men in whom they are vested by law; and as this want is hourly felt, the more
profusely do newspapers abound.

The extraordinary subdivision of administrative power has much more to do with the enormous
number of American newspapers than the great political freedom of the country and the absolute
liberty of the press. If all the inhabitants of the Union had the suffrage--but a suffrage
which should only extend to the choice of their legislators in Congress--they would require
but few newspapers, because they would only have to act together on a few very important but
very rare occasions. But within the pale of the great association of the nation, lesser associations
have been established by law in every country, every city, and indeed in every village, for
the purposes of local administration. The laws of the country thus compel every American to
co-operate every day of his life with some of his fellow-citizens for a common purpose, and
each one of them requires a newspaper to inform him what all the others are doing.

I am of opinion that a democratic people, *a without any national representative assemblies,
but with a great number of small local powers, would have in the end more newspapers than another
people governed by a centralized administration and an elective legislation. What best explains
to me the enormous circulation of the daily press in the United States, is that amongst the
Americans I find the utmost national freedom combined with local freedom of every kind. There
is a prevailing opinion in France and England that the circulation of newspapers would be indefinitely
increased by removing the taxes which have been laid upon the press. This is a very exaggerated
estimate of the effects of such a reform. Newspapers increase in numbers, not according to
their cheapness, but according to the more or less frequent want which a great number of men
may feel for intercommunication and combination.

[Footnote a: I say a democratic people: the administration of an aristocratic people may be
the reverse of centralized, and yet the want of newspapers be little felt, because local powers
are then vested in the hands of a very small number of men, who either act apart, or who know
each other and can easily meet and come to an understanding.]

In like manner I should attribute the increasing influence of the daily press to causes more
general than those by which it is commonly explained. A newspaper can only subsist on the condition
of publishing sentiments or principles common to a large number of men. A newspaper therefore
always represents an association which is composed of its habitual readers. This association
may be more or less defined, more or less restricted, more or less numerous; but the fact that
the newspaper keeps alive, is a proof that at least the germ of such an association exists
in the minds of its readers.

This leads me to a last reflection, with which I shall conclude this chapter. The more equal
the conditions of men become, and the less strong men individually are, the more easily do
they give way to the current of the multitude, and the more difficult is it for them to adhere
by themselves to an opinion which the multitude discard. A newspaper represents an association;
it may be said to address each of its readers in the name of all the others, and to exert its
influence over them in proportion to their individual weakness. The power of the newspaper
press must therefore increase as the social conditions of men become more equal.

Chapter VII: Connection Of Civil And Political Associations

There is only one country on the face of the earth where the citizens enjoy unlimited freedom
of association for political purposes. This same country is the only one in the world where
the continual exercise of the right of association has been introduced into civil life, and
where all the advantages which civilization can confer are procured by means of it. In all
the countries where political associations are prohibited, civil associations are rare. It
is hardly probable that this is the result of accident; but the inference should rather be,
that there is a natural, and perhaps a necessary, connection between these two kinds of associations.
Certain men happen to have a common interest in some concern--either a commercial undertaking
is to be managed, or some speculation in manufactures to be tried; they meet, they combine,
and thus by degrees they become familiar with the principle of association. The greater is
the multiplicity of small affairs, the more do men, even without knowing it, acquire facility
in prosecuting great undertakings in common. Civil associations, therefore, facilitate political
association: but, on the other hand, political association singularly strengthens and improves
associations for civil purposes. In civil life every man may, strictly speaking, fancy that
he can provide for his own wants; in politics, he can fancy no such thing. When a people, then,
have any knowledge of public life, the notion of association, and the wish to coalesce, present
themselves every day to the minds of the whole community: whatever natural repugnance may restrain
men from acting in concert, they will always be ready to combine for the sake of a party. Thus
political life makes the love and practice of association more general; it imparts a desire
of union, and teaches the means of combination to numbers of men who would have always lived apart.

Politics not only give birth to numerous associations, but to associations of great extent.
In civil life it seldom happens that any one interest draws a very large number of men to act
in concert; much skill is required to bring such an interest into existence: but in politics
opportunities present themselves every day. Now it is solely in great associations that the
general value of the principle of association is displayed. Citizens who are individually powerless,
do not very clearly anticipate the strength which they may acquire by uniting together; it
must be shown to them in order to be understood. Hence it is often easier to collect a multitude
for a public purpose than a few persons; a thousand citizens do not see what interest they
have in combining together--ten thousand will be perfectly aware of it. In politics men combine
for great undertakings; and the use they make of the principle of association in important
affairs practically teaches them that it is their interest to help each other in those of less
moment. A political association draws a number of individuals at the same time out of their
own circle: however they may be naturally kept asunder by age, mind, and fortune, it places
them nearer together and brings them into contact. Once met, they can always meet again.

Men can embark in few civil partnerships without risking a portion of their possessions; this
is the case with all manufacturing and trading companies. When men are as yet but little versed
in the art of association, and are unacquainted with its principal rules, they are afraid,
when first they combine in this manner, of buying their experience dear. They therefore prefer
depriving themselves of a powerful instrument of success to running the risks which attend
the use of it. They are, however, less reluctant to join political associations, which appear
to them to be without danger, because they adventure no money in them. But they cannot belong
to these associations for any length of time without finding out how order is maintained amongst
a large number of men, and by what contrivance they are made to advance, harmoniously and methodically,
to the same object. Thus they learn to surrender their own will to that of all the rest, and
to make their own exertions subordinate to the common impulse--things which it is not less
necessary to know in civil than in political associations. Political associations may therefore
be considered as large free schools, where all the members of the community go to learn the
general theory of association.

But even if political association did not directly contribute to the progress of civil association,
to destroy the former would be to impair the latter. When citizens can only meet in public
for certain purposes, they regard such meetings as a strange proceeding of rare occurrence,
and they rarely think at all about it. When they are allowed to meet freely for all purposes,
they ultimately look upon public association as the universal, or in a manner the sole means,
which men can employ to accomplish the different purposes they may have in view. Every new
want instantly revives the notion. The art of association then becomes, as I have said before,
the mother of action, studied and applied by all.

When some kinds of associations are prohibited and others allowed, it is difficult to distinguish
the former from the latter, beforehand. In this state of doubt men abstain from them altogether,
and a sort of public opinion passes current which tends to cause any association whatsoever
to be regarded as a bold and almost an illicit enterprise. *a

[Footnote a: This is more especially true when the executive government has a discretionary
power of allowing or prohibiting associations. When certain associations are simply prohibited
by law, and the courts of justice have to punish infringements of that law, the evil is far
less considerable. Then every citizen knows beforehand pretty nearly what he has to expect.
He judges himself before he is judged by the law, and, abstaining from prohibited associations,
he embarks in those which are legally sanctioned. It is by these restrictions that all free
nations have always admitted that the right of association might be limited. But if the legislature
should invest a man with a power of ascertaining beforehand which associations are dangerous
and which are useful, and should authorize him to destroy all associations in the bud or allow
them to be formed, as nobody would be able to foresee in what cases associations might be established
and in what cases they would be put down, the spirit of association would be entirely paralyzed.
The former of these laws would only assail certain associations; the latter would apply to
society itself, and inflict an injury upon it. I can conceive that a regular government may
have recourse to the former, but I do not concede that any government has the right of enacting
the latter.]

It is therefore chimerical to suppose that the spirit of association, when it is repressed
on some one point, will nevertheless display the same vigor on all others; and that if men
be allowed to prosecute certain undertakings in common, that is quite enough for them eagerly
to set about them. When the members of a community are allowed and accustomed to combine for
all purposes, they will combine as readily for the lesser as for the more important ones; but
if they are only allowed to combine for small affairs, they will be neither inclined nor able
to effect it. It is in vain that you will leave them entirely free to prosecute their business
on joint-stock account: they will hardly care to avail themselves of the rights you have granted
to them; and, after having exhausted your strength in vain efforts to put down prohibited associations,
you will be surprised that you cannot persuade men to form the associations you encourage.

I do not say that there can be no civil associations in a country where political association
is prohibited; for men can never live in society without embarking in some common undertakings:
but I maintain that in such a country civil associations will always be few in number, feebly
planned, unskillfully managed, that they will never form any vast designs, or that they will
fail in the execution of them.

This naturally leads me to think that freedom of association in political matters is not so
dangerous to public tranquillity as is supposed; and that possibly, after having agitated society
for some time, it may strengthen the State in the end. In democratic countries political associations
are, so to speak, the only powerful persons who aspire to rule the State. Accordingly, the
governments of our time look upon associations of this kind just as sovereigns in the Middle
Ages regarded the great vassals of the Crown: they entertain a sort of instinctive abhorrence
of them, and they combat them on all occasions. They bear, on the contrary, a natural goodwill
to civil associations, because they readily discover that, instead of directing the minds of
the community to public affairs, these institutions serve to divert them from such reflections;
and that, by engaging them more and more in the pursuit of objects which cannot be attained
without public tranquillity, they deter them from revolutions. But these governments do not
attend to the fact that political associations tend amazingly to multiply and facilitate those
of a civil character, and that in avoiding a dangerous evil they deprive themselves of an efficacious
remedy.

When you see the Americans freely and constantly forming associations for the purpose of promoting
some political principle, of raising one man to the head of affairs, or of wresting power from
another, you have some difficulty in understanding that men so independent do not constantly
fall into the abuse of freedom. If, on the other hand, you survey the infinite number of trading
companies which are in operation in the United States, and perceive that the Americans are
on every side unceasingly engaged in the execution of important and difficult plans, which
the slightest revolution would throw into confusion, you will readily comprehend why people
so well employed are by no means tempted to perturb the State, nor to destroy that public tranquillity
by which they all profit.

Is it enough to observe these things separately, or should we not discover the hidden tie which
connects them? In their political associations, the Americans of all conditions, minds, and
ages, daily acquire a general taste for association, and grow accustomed to the use of it.
There they meet together in large numbers, they converse, they listen to each other, and they
are mutually stimulated to all sorts of undertakings. They afterwards transfer to civil life
the notions they have thus acquired, and make them subservient to a thousand purposes. Thus
it is by the enjoyment of a dangerous freedom that the Americans learn the art of rendering
the dangers of freedom less formidable.

If a certain moment in the existence of a nation be selected, it is easy to prove that political
associations perturb the State, and paralyze productive industry; but take the whole life of
a people, and it may perhaps be easy to demonstrate that freedom of association in political
matters is favorable to the prosperity and even to the tranquillity of the community.

I said in the former part of this work, "The unrestrained liberty of political association
cannot be entirely assimilated to the liberty of the press. The one is at the same time less
necessary and more dangerous than the other. A nation may confine it within certain limits
without ceasing to be mistress of itself; and it may sometimes be obliged to do so in order
to maintain its own authority." And further on I added: "It cannot be denied that the unrestrained
liberty of association for political purposes is the last degree of liberty which a people
is fit for. If it does not throw them into anarchy, it perpetually brings them, as it were,
to the verge of it." Thus I do not think that a nation is always at liberty to invest its citizens
with an absolute right of association for political purposes; and I doubt whether, in any country
or in any age, it be wise to set no limits to freedom of association. A certain nation, it
is said, could not maintain tranquillity in the community, cause the laws to be respected,
or establish a lasting government, if the right of association were not confined within narrow
limits. These blessings are doubtless invaluable, and I can imagine that, to acquire or to
preserve them, a nation may impose upon itself severe temporary restrictions: but still it
is well that the nation should know at what price these blessings are purchased. I can understand
that it may be advisable to cut off a man's arm in order to save his life; but it would be
ridiculous to assert that he will be as dexterous as he was before he lost it.

Chapter VIII: The Americans Combat Individualism By The Principle Of Interest Rightly Understood

When the world was managed by a few rich and powerful individuals, these persons loved to entertain
a lofty idea of the duties of man. They were fond of professing that it is praiseworthy to
forget one's self, and that good should be done without hope of reward, as it is by the Deity
himself. Such were the standard opinions of that time in morals. I doubt whether men were more
virtuous in aristocratic ages than in others; but they were incessantly talking of the beauties
of virtue, and its utility was only studied in secret. But since the imagination takes less
lofty flights and every man's thoughts are centred in himself, moralists are alarmed by this
idea of self-sacrifice, and they no longer venture to present it to the human mind. They therefore
content themselves with inquiring whether the personal advantage of each member of the community
does not consist in working for the good of all; and when they have hit upon some point on
which private interest and public interest meet and amalgamate, they are eager to bring it
into notice. Observations of this kind are gradually multiplied: what was only a single remark
becomes a general principle; and it is held as a truth that man serves himself in serving his
fellow-creatures, and that his private interest is to do good.

I have already shown, in several parts of this work, by what means the inhabitants of the United
States almost always manage to combine their own advantage with that of their fellow-citizens:
my present purpose is to point out the general rule which enables them to do so. In the United
States hardly anybody talks of the beauty of virtue; but they maintain that virtue is useful,
and prove it every day. The American moralists do not profess that men ought to sacrifice themselves
for their fellow-creatures because it is noble to make such sacrifices; but they boldly aver
that such sacrifices are as necessary to him who imposes them upon himself as to him for whose
sake they are made. They have found out that in their country and their age man is brought
home to himself by an irresistible force; and losing all hope of stopping that force, they
turn all their thoughts to the direction of it. They therefore do not deny that every man may
follow his own interest; but they endeavor to prove that it is the interest of every man to
be virtuous. I shall not here enter into the reasons they allege, which would divert me from
my subject: suffice it to say that they have convinced their fellow-countrymen.

Montaigne said long ago: "Were I not to follow the straight road for its straightness, I should
follow it for having found by experience that in the end it is commonly the happiest and most
useful track." The doctrine of interest rightly understood is not, then, new, but amongst the
Americans of our time it finds universal acceptance: it has become popular there; you may trace
it at the bottom of all their actions, you will remark it in all they say. It is as often to
be met with on the lips of the poor man as of the rich. In Europe the principle of interest
is much grosser than it is in America, but at the same time it is less common, and especially
it is less avowed; amongst us, men still constantly feign great abnegation which they no longer
feel. The Americans, on the contrary, are fond of explaining almost all the actions of their
lives by the principle of interest rightly understood; they show with complacency how an enlightened
regard for themselves constantly prompts them to assist each other, and inclines them willingly
to sacrifice a portion of their time and property to the welfare of the State. In this respect
I think they frequently fail to do themselves justice; for in the United States, as well as
elsewhere, people are sometimes seen to give way to those disinterested and spontaneous impulses
which are natural to man; but the Americans seldom allow that they yield to emotions of this
kind; they are more anxious to do honor to their philosophy than to themselves.

I might here pause, without attempting to pass a judgment on what I have described. The extreme
difficulty of the subject would be my excuse, but I shall not avail myself of it; and I had
rather that my readers, clearly perceiving my object, should refuse to follow me than that
I should leave them in suspense. The principle of interest rightly understood is not a lofty
one, but it is clear and sure. It does not aim at mighty objects, but it attains without excessive
exertion all those at which it aims. As it lies within the reach of all capacities, everyone
can without difficulty apprehend and retain it. By its admirable conformity to human weaknesses,
it easily obtains great dominion; nor is that dominion precarious, since the principle checks
one personal interest by another, and uses, to direct the passions, the very same instrument
which excites them. The principle of interest rightly understood produces no great acts of
self-sacrifice, but it suggests daily small acts of self-denial. By itself it cannot suffice
to make a man virtuous, but it disciplines a number of citizens in habits of regularity, temperance,
moderation, foresight, self-command; and, if it does not lead men straight to virtue by the
will, it gradually draws them in that direction by their habits. If the principle of interest
rightly understood were to sway the whole moral world, extraordinary virtues would doubtless
be more rare; but I think that gross depravity would then also be less common. The principle
of interest rightly understood perhaps prevents some men from rising far above the level of
mankind; but a great number of other men, who were falling far below it, are caught and restrained
by it. Observe some few individuals, they are lowered by it; survey mankind, it is raised.
I am not afraid to say that the principle of interest, rightly understood, appears to me the
best suited of all philosophical theories to the wants of the men of our time, and that I regard
it as their chief remaining security against themselves. Towards it, therefore, the minds of
the moralists of our age should turn; even should they judge it to be incomplete, it must nevertheless
be adopted as necessary.

I do not think upon the whole that there is more egotism amongst us than in America; the only
difference is, that there it is enlightened--here it is not. Every American will sacrifice
a portion of his private interests to preserve the rest; we would fain preserve the whole,
and oftentimes the whole is lost. Everybody I see about me seems bent on teaching his contemporaries,
by precept and example, that what is useful is never wrong. Will nobody undertake to make them
understand how what is right may be useful? No power upon earth can prevent the increasing
equality of conditions from inclining the human mind to seek out what is useful, or from leading
every member of the community to be wrapped up in himself. It must therefore be expected that
personal interest will become more than ever the principal, if not the sole, spring of men's
actions; but it remains to be seen how each man will understand his personal interest. If the
members of a community, as they become more equal, become more ignorant and coarse, it is difficult
to foresee to what pitch of stupid excesses their egotism may lead them; and no one can foretell
into what disgrace and wretchedness they would plunge themselves, lest they should have to
sacrifice something of their own well-being to the prosperity of their fellow-creatures. I
do not think that the system of interest, as it is professed in America, is, in all its parts,
self-evident; but it contains a great number of truths so evident that men, if they are but
educated, cannot fail to see them. Educate, then, at any rate; for the age of implicit self-sacrifice
and instinctive virtues is already flitting far away from us, and the time is fast approaching
when freedom, public peace, and social order itself will not be able to exist without education.

Chapter IX: That The Americans Apply The Principle Of Interest Rightly Understood To Religious
Matters

