"I slept on a pallet and lounge and took care of their children. I played round. Done bout
as I pleased. They had a cook they called Aunt Joe--Joe Oats. We had plenty to eat and wear.
They dressed me like one their children. We had good flannel clothes. When she washed her children
she washed me too. When she combed their hair she combed mine too. She kept working with it
till I had pretty hair. Some of her children died. It hurt me bad as it did them. All I done
was play with em and see after em. Their names was Sam, John, Dixie, Sallie, Jim. I went in
the hack to church; if she took the children, she took me. I was a good size girl when she
died. The last word she spoke was to me; she said, 'Emma, take care of my children.' Dr. John
Chester was her doctor.

"Oats come here from North Alabama. Will Oats, Wyatt Oats, and Jack Oats--all brothers.

"When mistress living we took a bath every Friday in a sawed-intwo barrel (wooden tub). The
cook done our washing. We had clean fresh clothes. We had to dress up every few days. If we
get dirty she say she would give us lashes. She never give me none, I never was sassy (saucy).
That what most of em got 10 lashes, 25, 50 lashes for.

"When I was bout grown I went to school a little bit to James A. Kerr here at Holly Grove.
I was good and grown too.

"I was settin' on the gate post--they had a picket fence. I seen some folks coming to our house.
I run in the house and says, 'Miss Mai Liza, the Yankees coming here!' She told her husband
to get in the bed. He says, 'Oh God, what she know bout Yankees?' Miss Mai Liza say, 'I don't
know; she's one of em, I speck she knows em.' One of the officers come in and asked him what
was the matter. He said he was sick. He had boils bout on him. He had a Masonic pin on his
shirt. He showed it to the officer. He asked Lou and Becky and all the servants if he hadn't
been bushwhacking. They all said, 'No.' He said he wanted something to eat. They went to the
well house and got him some milk.

"They camped below the house. They went to their store house and brought more rations up there
in a wagon. Lou cooked and she had help. She set a big table and they had the biggest dinner.
They had more hams. They had 'Lincoln Coffee' there that day. It was a jolly day. They never
et up there no more or bothered round our house no more. The officer had something on his bare
arm he showed. He said, when he went to leave, 'Aunt Lou, you shall not be hurt.'

"Mr. Oats had taken long before that day all his slaves to Texas. He took all but Wash Martin.
They went in wagons and none of them ever come back.

"Miss Callie Edwards was older than Miss Henrietta Jackson. They kept Wash Martin going through
the bottoms nearly all time from their houses at Golden Hill to Indian Bay. They kept him from
one place to the other to keep him out of the war. They hired him out to school Miss Henrietta.
Miss Callie Edwards died then they give him to Miss Henrietta.

"During the war Mrs. Keeps come up to our house. They heard a gun. She was jes visiting Mrs.
Oats. Mrs. Keeps went home and the bushwhackers had killed him. He was dead.

"I never seen no Ku Klux in my whole life.

"I remember the stage coach that run every two or three days from Helena to Clarendon.

"I don't remember bout freedom. Dr. Green, Hall Green's daddy, told his colored folks they
was free. They told our folks. I heard em talking bout it. I was kept quiet. It was done freedom,
fore I knowed it. I stayed on and done like I been doin'. I stayed on and on.

"When I was grown I come here to school and soon married. I washed and ironed and cooked all
over Holly Grove. I was waiting on the table at the boarding house here at Holly Grove. Mr.
Oats was talking bout naming the town. They had put the railroad through. I ask em why didn't
they name the town Holly Grove. It was thick with holly trees. They named it that, and put
it up on the side of the depot. That way I named the town.

"My folks give me five acres of land and Julia Woolfolk give a blind woman on the place five
acres. I didn't know what to do wid it. I didn't have no husband. I was young and foolish.
I let it be.

"My husband farmed. I raised my family, chopped and picked cotton and done other things along
with that. I have worked all my life till way after my husband died.

"My husband could jump up, knock heels together three times before he come down. He died May
12, 1909. He was 83 years old February 16, 1909.

"I never voted. I never heard my husband say much bout voting. I know some colored folks sold
their voting rights. That was wrong.

"I lived at Baptist Bottoms two years. It lack to killed me."

Wyatt Oats and Miss Callie Edwards owned the husband of Emma Oats. She was married once and
had two girls and two boys--one boy dead now. Emma lives at one of her daughters' homes.

Interviewer: Miss Irene Robertson
Person interviewed: Helen Odom and mother, Sarah Odom
                    Biscoe, Arkansas
Age: 30?

"Great-grandmother was part African, Indian, and Caucasian. She had two girls before slavery
ended by her own master--Master Temple. He was also Caucasian (white). She was cook and housemaid
at his home. He was a bachelor. Grandmother's name was Rachael and her sister's name was Gilly.
Before freedom Master Temple had another wife. By her he had one boy and two girls. He never
had a Caucasian wife. In fact he was always a bachelor. Grandmother was a field hand and so
was her sister, Gilly.

"But after freedom grandmother married a Union soldier. His took-on name was George Washington
Tomb. He was generally called Parson Tomb (preacher). He met Grandmother Rachael in Arkansas.

"When Master Temple died his nearest relative was Jim McNeilly. He made a will leaving everything
he possessed to Master McNeilly. The estate had to be settled, so he brought the two sisters
to Little Rock we think to be sold. They rode horseback and walked and brought wagons with
bedding and provisions to camp along the road. The blankets were frozen and stood alone. It
was so cold. Grandmother was put up on the block to be auctioned off and freedom was declared!
Aunt Gilly never got to the block. Grandmother married and was separated from her sister.

"Whether the other three children were brought to Arkansas then I don't know but this I know
that they went by the name McNeilly. They changed their names or it was done for them. They
are all dead now and my own mother is the only one now living. Their names were John, Tom,
and Netline. Mother says they were sold to Johnson, and went by that name too as much as McNeilly.
They remained with Johnson till freedom, in Tennessee.

"My mother's name is Sarah.

"They seem to think they were treated good till Master Temple died. They nearly froze coming
to Arkansas to be sold.

"I heard this told over and over so many, many times before grandmother died. Seemed it was
the greatest event of her life. She told other smaller things I can't remember to tell with
sense at all. Nothing so important as her master and own father's death and being sold.

"Times are good, very good with me. Our African race is advancing with the times."

Interviewer's Comment

Teacher in Biscoe school. Father was a graduate doctor of medicine and in about 1907, '08,
'09 school director at Biscoe.

Interviewer: Mrs. Bernice Bowden
Person interviewed: Jane Oliver
                    Route 4, near airport, Pine Bluff, Arkansas
Age: 81

"I'm certainly one of em, cause I was in the big house. When Miss Liza married they give sister
to her and I stayed with Miss Netta. Her name was Drunetta Rawls. That was in Mississippi.
We come to Arkansas when I was small.

"I remember when they run us to Texas, and we stayed there till freedom come. I remember hearin'
em read the free papers. Mama died in Texas and they buried her the day they read the free
papers. I know. I was out playin' and Miss Lucy, that was my young mistress, come out and say,
'Jane, you go in and see your mother, she wants you.' I was busy playin' and didn't want to
go in and I member Miss Lucy say, 'Poor little fool nigger don't know her mother's dyin'.'
I went in then and said, 'Mama, is you dyin'?' She say, 'No, I ain't; I died when you was a
baby.' You know, she meant she had died in sin. She was a christian.

"Me and Lucy played together all the time--round about the house and in the kitchen. Little
Marse Henry, that was big old Marse Henry's son, he was a captain in the army. We all called
him Little Marse Henry. Old mistress was good to us. Us chillun called her Miss Netta. Best
woman I ever seed. Me and Lucy growed up together. Looks like I can see just the way the house
looked and how we used to go down to the big gate and play. I sits here and studies and wonders
if I'd know that place today. That's what I study bout.

"I used to hear em say we only stayed in Texas nine months and the white folks brought us back.

"My uncle Simon Rawls, he took me after the war. Then I worked for Mrs. Adkins.

"I went to school a little and learned to read prints. The teacher tried to get me to write
but I wouldn't do it. And since then I have wished so much I had learned to write. Oh mercy!
Old folks would tell me, 'Well, when you get up the road, you'll wish you had.' I didn't know
what they meant but I know now they meant when I got old.

"I was married when I was young--I don't think I was fifteen.

"Yes ma'am, I've worked hard. I've always lived in the country.

"I can remember when the white folks refugeed us to Texas. Oh we did hate the Yankees. If I
ever seed a Yankee I didn't know it but I heard the white folks talkin' bout em.

"I used to hear em talk bout old Jeff Davis and Abe Lincoln.

"Bradley County was where we lived fore we went to Texas and afterward. Colonel Ed Hampton's
plantation jined the Rawls plantation on the Arkansas River where it overflowed the land. I
loved that better than any place I ever seed in my life.

"I couldn't say what I think of the young folks now. They is different from what we was. Yes,
Lord, they is different. Sometimes I think they is better and sometimes wuss. I just thanks
the Lord that I'm here--have come this far.

"When I bought this place from Mr. R.M. Knox he said, 'When I'm in my grave you'll thank me
that you took my advice and put your savings in a Home.' I do thank him. I been here thirty
years and I get along. God bless you."

Interviewer: Mrs. Bernice Bowden
Person interviewed: Ivory Osborne
                    Route 5, Box 158, Pine Bluff, Arkansas
Age: 85

"Know about slavery? Sho I do--I was born in '52. Born in Arkansas? No ma'm, born in Texas.

"Oh yes, indeed, I had a good master. Good to me, indeed. I was that high when the war started.
I member everything. Take me from now till dark to tell you everything I know bout slavery.

"I put in three years and five months, choppin' cotton and corn. I member the very day, on
the 10th of May, old mistress blowed the conk and told us we was free.

"Oh Lord, I had a good time.

"I never was whipped.

"Ku Klux used to run me. Run me clear from the plum orchard bout a mile from the house. Run
to my mistress at the big house.

"Miss Ann had eight darkies and told her stepmother, 'Don't you put your hand on em.' She didn't
either.

"I went to school since 'mancipation in Nacitosh. Learned to read and write. Was in the eighth
grade when I left. Stood at the head of every class. They couldn't get me down. I done got
old and forgot now.

"I didn't know the difference between slavery and free, I never was whipped.

"Did I ever vote? You know I voted, old as I am. Ain't voted in over forty years. I ain't nobody.
My wife's eighty. I've had her forty years. Cose I voted the Republican ticket. You never seed
a colored person a Democrat in your life.

"In slavery days we killed seventy-five or eighty hogs every year. And I don't mean shoats,
I mean hogs. I ain't lost my membrance."

Interviewer: Mrs. Bernice Bowden
Person interviewed: Jane Osbrook
                    602 E. 21st Avenue, Pine Bluff, Arkansas
Age: 90

"Yes ma'm, I was livin' in slavery days. I was borned in Arkansas I reckon. I was borned within
three, miles of Camden but I wasn't raised there. We moved to Saline County directly after
peace was declared.

"I don't know what year I was born because you see I'm not educated but I was ninety the 27th
of this last past May. Yes ma'm, I'm a old bondage woman. I can say what a heap of em can't
say--I can tell the truth bout it. I believe in the truth. I was brought up to tell the truth.
I'm no young girl.

"My old master was Adkison Billingsly. My old mistress treated us just like her own children.
She said we had feelin's and tastes. I visited her long after the war. Went there and stayed
all night.

"I member when they had the fight at Jenkins Ferry. Old Steele had 30,000 and he come down
to take Little Rock, Pine Bluff and others. Captain Webb with 1,500 Rebels was followin' him
and when they got to Saline River they had a battle.

"The next Sunday my father carried all us children and some of the white folks to see the battle
field. I member the dead was lyin' in graves, just one row after another and hadn't even been
covered up.

"Oh yes, I can tell all bout that. Nother time there was four hundred fifty colored and five
white Yankee soldiers come and ask my father if old mistress treated us right. We told em we
had good owners. I never was so scared in my life. Them colored soldiers was so tall and so
black and had red eyes. Oh yes ma'm, they had on the blue uniforms. Oh, we sure was fraid of
em--you know them eyes.

"They said, 'Now uncle, we want you to tell the truth, does she feed you well?' My ma did all
the cookin' and we had good livin'. I tole my daughter we fared ten thousand times better than now.

"I come up in the way of obedience. Any time I wanted to go, had to go to old mistress and
she say, 'Don't let the sun go down on you.' And when we come home the sun was in the trees.
If you seed the sun was goin' down on you, you run.

"I ain't goin' tell nothin' but the truth. Truth better to live with and better to die with.

"Some of the folks said they never seed a biscuit from Christmas to Christmas but we had em
every day. Never seed no sodie till peace was declared--used saleratus.

"In my comin' up it was Whigs and Democrats. Never heard of no Republicans till after the war.
I've seed a man get upon that platform and wipe the sweat from his brow. I've seed em get to
fight in' too. That was done at our white folks house--arguin' politics.

"I never did go to school. I married right after the war you know. What you talkin' bout--bein'
married and goin' to school? I was housekeepin': Standin' right in my own light and didn't
know it." I was workin' a good while 'fore surrender.

"Bill Jimmerson was my old master. He was a captain in Marmaduke's army. Come home on thirty
days furlough once and he and Daniel Carmack got into some kind of a argument 'bout some whisky
and Daniel Carmack stabbed him with a penknife. Stabbed him three times. He was black as tar
when they brought him home. The blood had done settled. Oh Lawd, that was a time.

"My eyes been goin' blind 'bout six years till I got so I can't excern (discern) anything.

"Old miss used to box me over the head mightily and the colored folks used to hit me over the
head till seem like I could hear a bell for two or three days. Niggers ain't got no sense.
Put 'em in authority and they gits so uppity.

"My brother brought me here and left me here with a colored woman named Rachael Ross. And oh
Lawd, she was hard on me. Never had to do in slavery times what I had to do then.

"But the devil got her and all her chillun now I reckon. They tell me when death struck her,
they asked if the Lawd called her, and they say she just turned over and over in the bed like
a worm in hot ashes."

Interviewer: Mrs. Bernice Bowden
Person interviewed: Annie Page
                    400 Block West Pullen, Pine Bluff, Arkansas
Age: 85

"Yes'm I 'member the war. I never knowed why they called it the Civil War though.

"I was born in Union County, Arkansas, 'bout a mile from Bear Creek, in 1852. That's what my
old mistress tole me the morning we was sot free.

"My mistress was a Democrat. Old master was a captain in Marmaduke's army.

"I used to hope (help) spin the thread to make the soldiers' clothes. Old mistress cared for
me. Lacy Jimmerson--the onliest mistress I ever had. She wanted to send us away to Texas but
old master say it want no use. Cause if the Yankees won, they have to bring us back, so we
didn't go.

"Did they whip us? Why I bet I can show you scars now. Old Miss whip me when she feel like
fightin'. Her granddaughter, Mary Jane, tried to learn me my ABC's out of the old Blue Back
Speller. We'd be out on the seesaw, but old Miss didn't know what we doin'. Law, she pull our
hair. Directly she see us and say 'What you doin'? Bring that book here!'

"One day old master come home on a thirty-day furlough. He was awful hot-headed and he got
into a argument with Daniel Carmack and old Daniel stobbed him right in the heart. Fore he
die he say to bury him by the side of the road so he can see the niggers goin' to work.

"I never seen no Ku Klux but I heard of 'em 'rectly after the war.

"I'se blind. I jest can see enough to get around. The Welfare gives me eight dollars a month.

"My mother died soon after the war ended and after that I was jest knocked over the head. I
went to Camblin and worked for Mrs. Peters. Then I runned away and married my first husband
Mike Samson. I been married twice and had two children but they all dead now.

"Law, I jest scared of these young ones as I can be. I don't have no dealins with 'em." Mama
had done sent me out to feed the chickens soon of a morning.

"Here was the smokehouse and there was a turkey in a coop. And when I throwed it the feed I
heard somethin' sounded just like you was draggin' a brush over leaves. It come around the
corner of the smokehouse and look like a tall woman. It kept on goin' toward the house till
it got to the hickory nut tree and still sound like draggin' a brush. When it got to the hickory
nut tree it changed and look like a man. I looked and I said, 'It's old master.' And the next
day he got killed. I run to the house and told mama, 'Look at that man.' She said, 'Shut your
mouth, you don't see no man.' Old miss heard and said, 'Who do you s'pose it could be?' But
mama wouldn't let me talk.

"But I know it was a sign that old master was goin' to die."

Superstitions

"I was born with a caul over my face. Old miss said it hung from the top of my head half way
to my waist.

"She kept it and when I got big enough she said, 'Now that's your veil, you play with it.'

"But I lost it out in the orchard one day.

"They said it would keep you from seein' ha'nts."

Birthmarks

"William Jimmerson's wife had a daughter was born blind, and she said it was her husband's
fault. She was delicate, you know, and one afternoon she was layin' down and I was sittin'
there fannin' her with a peafowl fan. Her husband was layin' there too and I guess I must a
nodded and let the fan drop down in his face. He jumped up and pressed his thumbs on my eyes
till they was all bloodshot and when he let loose I fell down on the floor. Miss Phenie said,
'Oh, William, don't do that.' I can remember it just as well.

"My eyes like to went out and do you know, when her baby was born it was blind. It's eyes just
looked like two balls of blood. It died though, just lived 'bout two weeks."

Interviewer: Mrs. Bernice Bowden
Person interviewed: Fannie Parker
                    1908 W. Sixth Street, Pine Bluff, Arkansas
Age: 90?

"Yes, honey, this is old Fannie. I'se just a poor old nigger waitin' for Jesus to come and
take me to Heaven.

"I was just a young strip of a girl when the war come. Dr. M.C. Comer was my owner. His wife
was Elizabeth Comer. I said Marse and Mistis in them days and when old mistress called me I
went runnin' like a turkey. They called her Miss Betsy. Yes Lord, I was in slavery days. Master
and mistress was bossin' me then. We all come under the rules. We lived in Monticello--right
in the city of Monticello.

"All I can tell you is just what I remember. I seed the Yankees. I remember a whole host of
'em come to our house and wanted something to eat. They got it too! They cooked it them selves
and then they burned everything they could get their hands on. They said plenty to me. They
said so much I don't know what they said. I know one thing they said I belonged to the Yankees.
Yes Lord, they wanted me to tell 'em if I was free. I told 'em I was free indeed and that I
belonged to Miss Betsy. I didn't know what else to say. We had plenty to eat, plenty of hog
meat and buttermilk and cornbread. Yes ma'm--don't talk about that now.

"Don't tell me 'bout old Jeff Davis--he oughta been killed. Abraham Lincoln thought what was
right was right and what was wrong was wrong. Abraham was a great man cause he was the President.
When the rebels ceded from the Union he made 'em fight the North. Abraham Lincoln studied that
and he had it all in his mind. He wasn't no fighter but he carried his own and the North give
'em the devil. Grant was a good man too. They tried to kill him but he was just wrapped up
in silver and gold.

"I remember when the stars fell. Yes, honey, I know I was ironin' and it got so dark I had
to light the lamp. Yes, I did!

"It's been a long time and my mind's not so good now but I remember old Comer put us through.
Good-bye and God bless you!"

Interviewer: Samuel S. Taylor Subject: Ex-slavery Story: Birth, Parents, Master. Waterloo is
a little town in South Carolina. I believe that fellow shot the first gun of the war when I
was born. I knew then I was going to be free. Of course that is just a lie. I made that up.
Anyway I was born in 1861.

"Colonel Rice was our master. He was in the war too. The name Parker came in by intermarriage,
you see. My mother belonged to Rice. She could have been a Simms before she married. My father's
name was Edmund Parker. He belonged to the Rices also. That was his master; Colonel Rice and
him were boys together. He went down there to Charleston, South Carolina to build breastworks.
While down there, he slipped off and brought a hundred men away from Charleston back to Lawrence
County where the men was that owned them. He was a business man, father was. Brought 'em all
through the swamps. They were slaves and he brought 'em all back home. They all followed his
advice.

"My mother's name was Rowena Parker after she married.

"Colonel Rice was a pretty fair man--a pretty good fellow. He was a colonel in the war and
stood pretty high. Bound to be that way by him being a colonel. Seemed like him and my father
had about the same number of kids. He thought there was nobody like my mother. He never whipped
the slaves himself but his overseer would sometimes jump on them. The Rice family was very
good to our people. The men being gone they were left in the hands of the mistress. She never
touched anybody. She never had no reason to.

Pateroles

"Patterollers didn't bother us, but we were in that country. During the war, most of the men
that amounted to anything were in the war and the patrolers didn't bother you much. The overseer
didn't have so much power over me than. That pretty well left the colored people to come up
without being abused during the war. The white folks was forced to go to the war. They drafted
them just like they do now. They'd shoot a po' white man if he didn't come.

Breeding

"My master didn't force men and women to marry. He didn't put 'em together just to get more
slave. Some times other people would have women and men just for that purpose. But there wasn't
much of it in my country.

House, Stock, Parents' Occupations

"Our house was a frame building, boxed in with one-by-twelve like we have here in the country.
That was a good house with regular flooring, tongue and groove. We was raised up in a good
house. Old Colonel Rice had to protect his standing. He had good stock. My father was a carriage
man. He had to keep those horses clean and they always looked good. That carriage had to shine
too. Colonel Rice was a high stepper. He'd take his handkerchief and rub it over the horses
hair to see if they were really clean. He would always find 'em clean though when the old man
got through with them. He would drive fine stock. Had some fine horses. Couldn't trust 'em
with just anybody.

"My mother was cook. She helped Mrs. Rice take care of the kids, and cooked around the house.
She took care of her kids, too.

"The house we was born and bred in was built for a carriage house, but somehow or 'nother they
give it to us to live in. My mother being a cook, she got what she wanted. That was a good
house too. It was sealed. It had good floors. It had two rooms. It had about three windows
and good doors to each room.

"We had just common furniture. Niggers didn't have much then. My father was a good mechanic
though and he would make anything he wanted. We didn't have much, just common things. But all
my people were mechanics, harness makers, shoemakers,--they could make anything. Young Sam
Parker could make any kind of shoe. He made shoes for the white folks; Young Jacob was a blacksmith;
he made horseshoes and anything else out of iron. He may still be living. In fact, he made
anything he could get his hands on. My young uncles on my mother's side, I don't know much
about them, because they were all mechanics. My grandfather on my mother's side could make
baskets--any kind--could make baskets that would hold water.

"My father had thirteen children. Three of them are living now. My brother lives here in the
city. He was born during the war and his mother was supposed to be free when he was born.

Right After the War

"That's what my mother told me. I can remember a long ways back myself. After the war, it wasn't
long before they began to open up schools. They used to run school three or four months a year.
Both white and colored in the country had about three or four months. That is all they had.
There weren't so very many white folks that took an interest in education during slave time.
Colored people got just about as much as they did right after the war. What time we went to
school we went the whole day. We would come home and work in the evening like. We had pretty
fair teachers. All white then at first. They didn't have no colored till afterwards. If they
did, they had so few, I never heard of them.

"The first teacher I had was Katie Whitefold (white). That was in Waterloo. Miss Richardson
was our next teacher. She was white too. We went to school two terms under white women. After
that we began to get teachers from Columbia, South Carolina, where the normal school was.

"The white teachers who taught us were people who had been raised right around Waterloo. We
never had no Northern teachers as I knows of. Our first colored teacher was Murry Evans. He
a preacher. He was one of our leading preachers too. After him our colored women began to come
in and stand examination wasn't so hard at that time, but they made a good showing. There were
good scholars.

"I went to school too much. I went to school at Philander Smith College some, too. I went a
good piece in school. Come pretty near finishing the English course (high school). I finished
Good[HW: sp.?] Brown's 'Grammer of Grammers'. Professor Backensto (the spelling is the interviewer's)
sent away and got it and sold it to us. We was his students. He was a white man from the North
and a good scholar. We got in those grammars and got the same lessons they give him when he
was in school--nine pages a lesson and we had to repeat that lesson three times. When my mother
died, I was off in the normal school.

"Right after the war, my parents farmed. He followed his trade. That always gave us something
to eat you know. When we farmed, we sharecropped--a third and a fourth--that is, we got a third
of the cotton and a fourth of the corn. Potatoes and things like that went free. All women
got an acre free. My mother always got an acre and she worked it good too. She always had her
bale of cotton. And if she didn't have a bale, she laid it next to the white folks' and made
it out. They knew it and they didn't care. She stood well with the white people. Helped all
of 'em raise their children, and they all liked that.

"I went along with my father whenever he had a big job and needed help. I got to be as good
a carpenter as he was.

"I married out here. About eighty-five. People were emigrating to this country. There was a
boom to emigrating then. Emigrating was a little dangerous when a man was trying to get hands.
White folks would lay traps and kill men that were taking away their hands--they would kill
white just as quick as they would black. I started out under a white man--I can't remember
his name. He turned me over to Madden, a colored man who was raised in Waterloo. We came from
there to Greenwood, South Carolina where everything was straight. After that we had nothing
to do but get on the train and keep coming. We was with our agent then and we had no more trouble
after that.

"I got off at Brinkley over at Minor Gregory's farm. He needed hands then and was glad to get
us. He is dead now. I stayed in Brinkley the space of about a year. Then he gave us transportation
to Little Rock. The train came from Memphis, and we struck out for Little Rock. I married after
I come to Little Rock. I forget what year. But anyway my wife is dead and gone and all the
children. So I'm single now.

Opinions of the Present

"I think times are about dead now. Things ought to get better. I believe things are going to
get better for all of us. People have got to think more. People have got to get together more.
War doesn't always make thing better. It didn't after the Civil War. And it didn't after the
World War. The young people are all right in their way. It would just take another war to learn
'em a lesson.

Support

"I can't do any work now. I get a little help from the welfare. It doesn't come regular. I
need a check right now. I think it's due now. But they haven't sent it out yet. That is, I
haven't got it.

"I'm a Christian. All my family were Methodists. I belong to Wesley.

Interviewer: Mary D. Hudgins Person Interviewed: Judy Parker Home: 618 Wade Street, Hot Springs,
Ark. Aged: 77

For location of Wade Street, see interview with Emma Sanderson.

As the interviewer walked down Silver Street a saddle colored girl came out on a porch for
a load of wood.

"I beg your pardon," she began, pausing, "can you tell me where I will find Emma Sanderson?"

"I sure can." The girl left the porch and came out to the street. "I'll walk down with you
and show you. That way it'll be easier. Kind of cold, ain't it?"

"It surely is," this from the interviewer. "Isn't it too cold for you, can't you just tell
me? I think I can find it." The girl had expected to be only on the porch and didn't have a coat.

"No, ma'am. It's all right. Now we're far enough for you to see. You see those two houses jam
up against one and 'tother? Well Miz Parker lives in the one this way. I goes down to look
after her most every day. That's where you'll find her.--No ma'am--'twaren't no bother."

The gate sagged slightly at the house "this way" of the "two jam up against one and 'tother."
A large slab from an oak log in the front yard near a woodpile bore mute evidence of many an
ax blow. (Stove wood is generally split in the rural South--one end of the "stick" resting
against the ground, the other atop a small log.)

Up a couple of rickety steps the interviewer climbed. She knocked three times. When she was
bade to enter she opened the door to find an old woman sitting near a wood stove combing her
long, white hair.

Mrs. Parker was expecting the visit. A few days before the interviewer had had a visit from
a couple of colored women who had "heard tell how you is investigating the old people.--been
trying to get on old age pension for a long time--glad you come to get us on.----No? Oh, I
see you is the Townsend woman." (An explanation of her true capacity was almost impossible
for the interviewer.)

Mrs. Parker, however, seemed to comprehend the idea perfectly. She expected nothing save the
chance to tell her story. Her joy at the gift of a quarter (the amount the interviewer set
aside from her salary for each interviewee) was pitiful. Evidently it had been a long time
since she had possessed a similar sum to spend exactly as she pleased.

"I don't rightly know how old I is. My mother used to tell me that I was a little baby, six
months old when our master, Joe Potts was his name, got ready to clear out of Florida. You
see he had heard tell of the war scare. So he started drifting out of the way. Bet it didn't
take him long after he made up his mind. He was a right decided man. Mister Joe was.

"How did we like him? Well, he was always good to us. He was well thought of. Seemed to be
a pretty clever man, Mr. Joe did." ("Clever" in plantation language like "smart" refers more
to muscular than mental activity. They might almost be used as synonyms for "hard working"
on the labor level.)

"So Mr. Joe got ready to go to Texas. Law, Miss, I don't rightly know whether he had a family
or not. Never heard my Mother say. Anyhow he come through Arkansas intending to drift on out
into Texas. But when he got near the border 'twix't and between Arkansas and Texas he stopped.
The talk about war had about settled down. So he stopped. He stopped near where the big bridge
is. You know where Little River County is don't you? He stopped and he started to work. Started
to make a crop. 'Course I can't remember none about that. Just what my Mother told me. But
I remembers him from later.

"He went at it the good way. Settled down and tried to open up a home. They put in a crop and
got along pretty good. Time passed and the war talk started floating again. That time he didn't
pay much attention and it got him. It was on a Sunday morning when he went away. I never knew
whether they made him go or not. But I kind of think they must of. Cause he wouldn't have moved
off from Florida if he had wanted to go to war.

"He took my daddy with him! Ma'am--did he take him to fight or to wait on him--Don't know ma'am,
but I sort of think he took him to wait on him. But he didn't bring him back. My daddy got
killed in the war. No ma'am. I don't rightly know how he got killed. Never heard nobody say.
I was just a little girl--nobody bothered to tell me much.

"Yes, that we did. We stayed on on the farm and we made a crop--the old folks did. Mr. Joe,
when he went off, said "Now you stay on here, you make a crop and you use all you need. Then
you put up the rest and save for me." He was a right good man, Mr. Joe was.

"No, we didn't never see no fighting. There wasn't nothing to be scared of. Didn't see no Yankees
until the war was through. Then they started passing. Lawsey, I couldn't tell how many of them
there was. More than you could count.

"We had all stayed on. I was the oldest of my mother's children. But she had two more after
me. There was our family and my two uncles and my grandmother. Then there was some other colored
folks. But we wasn't scared of the Yankees. Mr. Joe was there by that time. They camped all
around in the woods near us. They got us to do their washing. Lawsey they was as filthy as
hogs. I never see such folks. They asked Mr. Joe if we could do their washing. Everything on
the place that come near those clothes got lousey. Those men was covered with them. I never
see nothing like it. We got covered with them. No, ma'am, we got rid of 'em pretty easy. They
ain't so hard to get rid of, if you keep clean.

"After it was all over Master Joe got ready to go back to Florida. He took Warley and Jenny
with him. They was children he had had by a black woman--you know folks did such things in
them days. He asked the rest of us if they wanted to go back too. But my folks made up their
minds they didn't. You see, they didn't know how they'd get along and how long it would take
them to pay for the trip back, so they stayed right where they was.

"Lots of 'em went to Rondo and some of us worked for Herb Jeans--he lived farther up Red River.
After my mother died I was with my grandmother. She washed and cooked for Herb Jeans's family.
I stayed on with her, helped out until I got married. I was about fifteen when that time come.

"My man owned his place. Sure he did. Owned it when I married him. He owned it himself and
farmed it good. Yes ma'am we stayed with the land. He made good crops--corn and cotton, mostly.
Course we raised potatoes and the truck we needed--all stuff like that. Yes, ma'am we had thirteen
children. Just three of them's living. All of them is boys.

"Yes ma'am we got along good. My husband made good crops and we got along just good. But 'bout
eight years ago my husband he got sick. So he sold out the farm--sold out everything. Then
he come here.

"Before he died he spent every last cent--every last cent--left me to get along the very best
way I kin. I stays with my son. He takes care of me. He don't make much, but he does the best
he kin.

"No ma'am, I likes living down in the country. Down there near Red River it's soft and sandy.
Up here in Hot Springs the rocks tear up your feet. If you's country raised--you like the country.
Yes ma'am, you like the country."

As she left the interviewer handed her a quarter. At first the old woman's face was expressionless.
But she moved the coin nearer to her eyes and a smile broke and widened until her whole face
was a wrinkle of joy. When she turned in the doorway, the interviewer noticed that the hand
jammed into an apron pocket was clutched into a possessive fist, cradling the precious twenty
five cents.

Interviewer: Mrs. Bernice Bowden
Person interviewed: R.F. Parker
                    619 N. Hickory, Pine Bluff, Arkansas
Age: 76

"I was born in '62. I reckon I was born in slavery times. Born in Ripley County, Missouri.
Old man Billy Parker was my master, and my young master was Jim Parker.

"They bought my mother in Tennessee when she was a child. I wasn't big enough to remember much
about slavery but I was big enough to know when they turned my mother loose, and we come to
Lawrence County, Arkansas.

"I remember my mother sayin' she had to plow while her young master, Jim Parker, was off to
war, but I don't know what side he was on.

"I remember seein' some soldiers ridin' down the road, about seventy-five of 'em. I know I
run under a corn pen and hid. I thought they was after me. They stopped right there and turned
their horses loose 'round that pen. I can remember that all right. They went in the white folks'
house and took a shotgun. I know I remember hearin' mama talk about it. I think they had on
blue clothes.

"I was goin' on seven when we come to Arkansas. I know I'd walk a while and she'd tote me a
while. But we was lucky enough to get in with some white people that was movin' to Arkansas.
We was comin' to a place called 'The Promised Land.' We stayed there till '92.

"I have farmed and done public work. I worked nine years at that heading factory in the east
end (of Pine Bluff).

"I used to vote. When I was in north Arkansas, I voted in all kinds of elections. But after
I come down here to Jefferson County, I couldn't vote in nothin' but the presidential elections.

"I don't think the young people are goin' to amount to much. They are a heap wilder than when
I was young. They got a chance to graduate now--something I didn't get to do.

"I never went to school a day in my life, but the white people where I worked learned me to
read and write."

Interviewer's Comment

This man could easily pass for a white person.

Interviewer: Samuel S. Taylor
Person interviewed: Annie Parks
                    720 Pulaski Street, Little Rock, Arkansas
Age: About 80
Occupation: Formerly house and field work

"I was born and raised in Mer Rouge, Louisiana. That is between here and Monroe. I have been
here in Little Rock more than twenty-five years.

"My mother's name was Sarah Mitchell. That was her married name. I don't know what her father's
name was. My father's name was Willis Clapp. He was killed in the first war--the Civil War.
My father went to the war from Mer Rouge, Louisiana. I don't remember him at all. But that
is what my mother told me about him. My mother said he had very good people. After he married
my mother, old man Offord bought him. Offord's name was Warren Offord. They buried him while
I was still there in Mer Rouge. He was a old-time Mason. That was my mother's master--in olden
days.

"His grandmother took my mother across the seas with her. She (his grandmother) died on shipboard,
and they throwed her body into the water. There's people denies it, but my mother told me it
was so. Young Davenport is still living. He is a relative of Offords. My mother never did get
no pension for my father.

Slave House and Occupation

"I was born in a log house. There were two doors--a front and a back--and there were two windows.
My mother had no furniture 'cept an old-time wooden bed--big bed. She was a nurse all the time
in the house. I heard her say she milked and waited on them in the house. My father's occupation
was farming during slavery times.

"My mother always said she didn't have no master to beat on her. I like to tell the truth.
My mother's master never let no overseer beat his slaves around. She didn't say just what we
had to eat. But they always give us a plenty, and there wasn't none of us mistreated.

"My father could have an extra patch and make a bale of cotton or whatever he wanted to on
it. That was so that he could make a little money to buy things for hisself and his family.
And if he raised a bale of cotton on his patch and wanted to sell it to the agent, that was
all right.

Family

"I have a brother named Manuel Clayton. If he's living still, he is younger than I am. He is
the baby boy. I doesn't remember his father at all. I had five sisters with myself and two
brothers. All of them were older than me except Manuel. My mother had one brother and two sisters.
Her brother's name was Lin Urbin. We always called him Big Buddy. He hasn't been so long died.
My older brother is named Willis Clayton--if he's still living. Willis has a half dozen sons.
He is my oldest brother. He lives way out in the country 'round Mer Rouge.

Freedom

"My mother said they promised to them money when they were freed. Some of them gave them something,
and some of them didn't. My mother's folks didn't give her nothin'. The Government didn't give
her nothin' either. I don't know just who told her she was free nor how. I don't remember myself.

Patrollers and Ku Klux

"I never heard much about pateroles. My mother said they used to whip you if they would catch
you out without a pass. I heard her talk about the Ku Klux after freedom.

Slave Worship

"My mother could always go to church on Sunday. Her slave-time preacher was Tom Johnson. Henry
Soates and Watt Taylor were slavery-time preachers too. Old man Jacob Anderson too was a great
preacher in slave time. There was a big arbor where they held church. That was outdoors. There
was just a wood frame and green leaves laid over it. Hundreds of people sat under there and
heard the Gospel preached. The Offords didn't care how much you worshipped. If I was with them,
I wouldn't have no trouble.

"In the winter time they had a small place to meet in. They built a church after the war. When
I went home, eight or nine years ago, I walked all 'round and looked at all the old places.

Health

"You know my remembrance comes and goes. I ain't had no good remembrance since I been sick.
I been mighty sick with high blood pressure. I can't work and I can't even go out. I'm 'fraid
I'll fall down and get myself hurt or run over.

Support

"I don't get no help 'cept what my daughter gives me. I can't get no Old Age Pension. I never
did get nothin' for my father. My mother didn't either. He was killed in the war, but they
didn't give nobody nothin' for his death. They told me they'd give me something and then they
told me they wouldn't. I'm dependent on what my daughter does for me. If I was back in Mer
Rouge, I wouldn't have no trouble gettin' a pension, nor nothin' else.

Slave Marriages on the Offord Plantation

"My mother said they just read 'em together, slavery times. I think she said that the preacher
married them on the Offord plantation. They didn't get no license.

Amusements

"They had quiltings and corn shuckings. I don't know what other amusements they had, but I
know everything was pleasant on the Offord plantation.

"If slaves went out without a pass, my mother said her master wouldn't allow them to beat on
them when they come in. They had plenty to eat, and they had substantial clothes, and they
had a good fire.

Age

"I don't know how old I am. I was born before the war. My father went to the war when it begun.
I had another brother that was born before the war. He don't remember nothin' about my father.
I don't neither. I was too young."

Interviewer's Comment

Allowing for a year's difference between the two youngest children, and allowing that the boy
was born immediately before the War, the girl could not be younger than seventy-eight. She
could be older. She states all facts as through her mother, but she seems to have experienced
some of the things she relates. Her memory is fading. Failure to get pension or old age assistance
oppresses her mind. She comes back to it again and again. She carries her card and her commodity
order with her in her pocketbook.

She had asked me to write some letters for her when her daughter interfered and said that she
didn't want it done. She said that she had told the case worker that her husband worked at
the Missouri Pacific Shop and that the case worker had asked her if she wouldn't provide for
her mother. They live in a neat rented house. The mother weighs about a hundred and ten pounds
and is tall. The daughter is about the same height but weighs about two hundred and fifty.
Time and again, the old lady tried to convey to me a message that she didn't want her daughter
to hear, but I could not make it out. The daughter was belligerent, as is sometimes the case,
and it was only by walking in the very middle of the straight and narrow path that I managed
to get my story.

Interviewer: Samuel S. Taylor
Person interviewed: Austin Pen Parnell
                    4314 W. Seventeenth Street, Little Rock, Arkansas
Age: 73
Occupation: Carpenter

Birth and General Fact About Life

"I was born April fifteenth, 1865, the day Lincoln was assassinated, in Carroll County, Mississippi,
about ten miles from Grenada. It's about half the distance between Grenada and Carrollton.
Carrollton is our county seat but we went to Grenada more than we went to Carrollton.

"When I got older, I moved to Grenada and I come from there here. I was about thirty-five years
old when I moved to Grenada. About 160 acres of land in Grenada was mine. I bought it, but
heirs claimed the place and I had to leave. I had no land then, only a lot here and I came
over here to look it over. A lady had come to Mississippi selling property and she had a plat
which she said was in Little Rock not far from the capitol. Her name was Mrs. Putman. The place
was on the other side of the Fourche. But I didn't know that until I came here. She misguided
me. I came to Arkansas and looked at the lot and didn't want it. I made a trip over here twice
before I settled on living in Little Rock. I told the others who had bought property from her
the truth about its location. They asked me and I hate to lie. I didn't knock; I just answered
questions and didn't volunteer nothing. They all quit making their payments, Just like I did.
My land had a rock on it as big as a bale of cotton.

"Mr. Herring thought hard of me because I told the others the truth. I went into the office
one day and Mr. Herring said, 'Parnell, I understand you have been knocking on me.' I said,
'Well, I'll tell you, Mr. Herring, if telling the truth about things is knocking on them, I
certainly did.' He never said anything more about it, and I didn't either.

"I rented a place on Twelfth and Maple and then rented around there two or three times, and
finally bought a place at 3704 West Twelfth Street. I moved to Little Rock March 18, 1911.
That was twenty-seven years ago.

Parents

"My father was named Henry Parnell. He died in the year 1917 in the time of the great war.
He was ninety-five years old when he died. His master had the same name. My mother's name was
Priscilla Parnell. She belonged to the same family as he did. They married before freedom.
My father was a farmer and my mother was a housewife and she'd work in the field too.

"My grandmother on my mother's side was named Hester Parnell. I don't know what her husband's
name was. My mother, father, and grandmother were all from North Carolina. My grandmother did
house and field work.

House

"My mother and father lived in a two-room house hewed out of big logs--great big logs. The
logs were about four inches thick and twelve inches wide. It didn't take many of them to build
a wall--about ten or twelve of them on a side. They were notched down so as to almost come
together. They chinked up the cracks with mud and covered it with a board.

"I laid in bed many a night and looked up through the cracks in the roof. Snow would come through
there when it snowed and cover the bed covers. We thought you couldn't build a roof so that
it would keep out rain and snow, but we were mistaken. Before you would make a fire in them
days, you had to sweep out the snow so that it wouldn't melt up in the house and make a mess.
But we kept healthy just the same. Didn't have no pneumonia in those days.

"The house had two rooms about eight feet apart. The rooms were connected by a hall which we
called a gallery in those days. The hall was covered by the same roof as the house and it had
the same floor. The house sot east and west and had a chimney in each end. The chimneys were
made out of sticks and mud. I can build a chimney now like that.

"It was large at the bottom and tapered at the top. It was about six or seven feet square at
the bottom. It grew smaller as it went toward the top. You could get a piece of wood three
and a half or four feet long in the boddom of it. Sometimes the wood would be too large to
carry and you would just have to roll it in.

"The floors was boards about one by twelve. There were two doors in each room--one leading
outside and the other to the hall. If there were any windows, I can't remember them. We didn't
need no windows for ventilation.

"This was the house that I remember first after freedom. I remember living in it. That was
about seven or eight years after freedom. My father rented it from the big man named Alf George
for whom he worked. Mr. George used to come out and eat breakfast with us. We'd get that hoecake
out of the ashes and wash it off until it looked like it was as clean as bread cooked in a
skillet. I have seen my grandmother cook a many a one in the fire. We didn't use no skillet
for corn bread. The bread would have a good firm crust on it. But it didn't get too hard to
eat and enjoy.

"She'd take a poker before she put the bread in and rake the ashes off the hearth down to the
solid stone or earth bottom, and the ashes would be banked in two hills to one side and the
other. Then she would put the batter down on it; the batter would be about an inch thick and
about nine inches across. She'd put down three cakes at a time and let 'em stay there till
the cakes were firm--about five minutes on the bare hot hearth. They would almost bake before
she covered them up. Sometimes she would lay down as many as four at a time. The cakes had
to be dry before they were covered up, because if the ashes ever stuck to them while they were
wet, there would be ashes in them when you would take them out to eat. She'd take her poker
then and rake the ashes back on the top of the cakes and let 'em stay there till the cakes
were done. I don't know just how long--maybe about ten or twelve minutes. She knew how long
to cook them. Then she'd rake down the hearth gently, backward and forward, with the poker
till she got down to them and then she'd put the poker under them and lift them out. That poker
was a kind of flat iron. It wasn't a round one. Then we'd wash 'em off like I told you and
they be ready to eat.

"Mr. George would eat the ash cake and drink sweet milk. 'Auntie, I want some of that ash cake
and some of that good sweet milk.' We had plenty of cows.

"Two-thirds of the water used in the ash cake was hot water, and that made the batter stick
together like it was biscuit dough. She could put it together and take it in her hand and pat
it out flat and lay it on the hearth. It would be just as round! That was the art of it!

"When I go back to Mississippi, I'm going back to that house again. I don't remember seeing
the house I was born in. But I was told it was an ordinary log house just like those all the
other slaves had,--just a one-room log house.

Freedom

"My father went to the War. He was on the Confederate side. They carried him there as a worker.
They cut down all the timber 'round the place where they were to keep the Yankee gunboats from
shelling them and knocking the logs down on them. But them Yankees were sharp. They stayed
away till everything got dry as a chip. Then they come down and set all that wood afire with
their shells, and the wind seemed to be in their favor. The Rebels had to get away from there.

"He got sick before the War closed and he had to come home. His young master and the other
folks stayed there four or five months longer. His young master was named Tom. When Tom came
home, he waited about five or six months before he would tell them they was free. Then he said,
'You all free as I am. You can stay here if you want or you can go. You are free.' They all
got together and told him that if he would treat them right he wouldn't have to do no work.
They would stay and do his work and theirs too. They would work the land and he would give
them their part. I don't know just what the agreement was. I think it was about a third. Anyway,
they worked on shares. When the landlord furnished a team usually it was halves. But when the
worker furnished his own team, it was usually two-thirds or three-fourths that the worker got.
But none of them owned teams at that time. They were just turned loose. We stayed there with
them people a good while. I don't know just how long, but it was several years.

Catching a Hog

"One time a slave went to steal a hog. I don't know the name of the man; I just hear my father
tell what happened, and I'm repeating it. It was a great big hog and kind of wild. His plan
to catch the hog was to climb a tree and carry a yeer of corn up the tree and at the same time
he'd carry a long rope. He had put a running noose in the end of the rope and laid it on the
ground and shelled the corn into the ring. He had the other end of the rope tied around himself;
he was up the tree. About the time he got the noose pulled up around the hog so that he could
tighten up on it, he dropped his hat and scared the hog. The hog didn't know he was around
until the hat fell, and the falling of the hat scared it so that it made a big jump and ran
a little ways off. That jerked the man out of the tree. Him falling scared the hog a second
time and got him to running right. He was a big stout hog, and the man's weight didn't hold
him back much. The man didn't know what to do to stop the hog. The hog was running draggin'
him along, snatching him over logs. There was nothin' else he could do, so he tried prayer.
But the hog didn't stop. Seemed like even the Lord couldn't stop him. Then he questioned the
Lord; he said, 'Lawd, what sawt [HW: sort] of a Lawd is you? You can stop the wind; you can
stop the rain; you can stop the ocean; but you can't stop this hog.'

"The hog ran till he came to a big ditch. He jumped the ditch, but the man fell in it, and
that compelled the hog to stop. The man's hollering made somebody hear him and come and git
him loose from the hog. He was so glad to git loose, he didn't mind losing the hog and gettin'
punished. He didn't get the hog. He just got a lot of bruises. I don't remember just how they
punished him.

Ku Klux Klan

"Once after the War there was a lot of colored people at a prayer meeting. It was in the winter
and they had a fire. The Ku Klux come up. They just stood outside the door, but the people
thought they were coming in and they got scared. They didn't know hardly how to get out. One
man got a big shovelful of hot coals and ashes out of the fireplace and threw it out over them,
and while they was dusting off the ashes and coals, the niggers all got away.

Patrollers

"I remember my father telling tales about the patrollers, but I can't remember them just now.
There was an old song about them. Part of it went like this:

  'Run, nigger, run
  The pateroles'll get you.

  That nigger run
  That nigger flew
  That nigger bust
  His Sunday shoe.

  Run, nigger, run
  The pateroles'll get you.'

That's all I know of that. There is more to it. I used to hear the boys sing it, and I used
to hear 'em pick it out on the banjo and the guitar.

Old Massa Goes 'Way

"Old massa went off one time and left the niggers. He told 'em that he was goin' to New York.
He jus' wanted to see what they would do if they thought he was away. The niggers couldn't
call the name New York, and they said, 'Old massa's gone to PhilameYawk.'

"They went in the pantry and got everything they wanted to eat. And they had a big feast. While
they were feasting, the old man came in disguised as a tramp--face smutty and clothes all dirty
and raggedy. They couldn't tell who he was. He walked up just as though he wanted to eat and
begged the boys for something to eat. The boys said to him, 'Stan' back, you shabby rascal,
you; if'n they's anything left, you get some; if'n they ain't none left, you get none. This
is our time. Old massa done gone to PhilameYawk and we're having a big time.'

"After they were through, they did give him a little something but they still didn't know him.
I never did learn the details about what happened after they found out who the tramp was. My
father told me about it.

Whipping a Slave

"I heard my father say his old master give him two licks with a whip once. Him and another
man had been off and they came in. Master drove up in a double surrey. He had been to town
and had bought the boys a pair of boots apiece. He told them as he got out of the surrey to
take his horses out and feed them. My father's friend was there with him and he said: 'Le's
get our boots before we feed the horses.' After that the master walked out on the porch and
he had on crying boots. The horses heard them squeaking and they nickered.

"Master said, 'Henry, I thought I told you to feed them horses. Henry was so taken aback that
he couldn't say a thing. Henry was my father, you know. Master went and got his cowhide. He
said, 'Are you going to obey my orders?' About the time he said that, he hit my father twice
with the cowhide, and my father said, 'Oh pray, master, oh pray,' and he let him go. He beat
the other fellow pretty bad because he told him to 'Le's get the boots first.'

"Old master would get drunk sometimes and get on the niggers and beat them up. He would have
them stark naked and would be beating them. Then old missis would come right out there and
stop him. She would say, 'I didn't come all the way here from North Carolina to have my niggers
beat up for nothin'.' She'd take hold of the cowhide, and he would have to quit. My father
had both her picture and the old man's.

Prayer

"I can remember how my mother used to pray out in the field. We'd be picking cotton. She would
go off out there in the ditch a little ways. It wouldn't be far, and I would listen to her.
She would say to me: 'Pray, son,' and I would say, 'Mother, I don't know how to pray,' and
she would say, 'Well, just say Lord have mercy.' That gave me religious inclinations. I cultivated
religion from that time on. I would try to pray and finally I learned. One day I was out in
the field and it was pouring down rain, and I was standing up with tears in my eyes trying
to pray as she taught me to. We weren't picking cotton then. I was just walking out. My mother
was dead. I would be walking out and whenever I would get the notion I would stop right there
and go to praying.

"In slave times, they would have a prayer meeting out in some of the places and they would
turn a pot down out in front of the door. It would be on a stick or something and raised up
a short distance from the ground so that it wouldn't set flat on the ground. It seems that
that would catch the sound and keep it right around there. They would sing that old song:

  'We will camp awhile in the wilderness
   And then I'm going home.'

I don't know any more of the words of that song.

Early Schooling

"I started to school when I was about six or seven years old. I didn't get to school regular
because my father had plenty of work and he had a habit of taking me out to help him when he
needed me in his work.

"My first teacher was a white man named Jones. I don't remember his first name. He was a northerner
and a Republican. He taught in the public school with us. His boy, John, and his girl, Louisa,
went to the same school, and were in classes with us. The kids would beat them up sometimes
but he didn't cut up about it. He was pretty good man.

"After him, I had a colored man named M.E. Davis as a teacher. He would say to my father, 'Henry,
that is a bright boy; he will be a credit to you if you will keep him at school and give him
a chance. Don't make him lose so much time.' My father would say, 'Yes, that is right.' But
as soon as another job came up, he would keep me out again.

"I soon got so my learning was a help to him in his work. Whenever any figuring was to be done,
I had to do it if it was done right. He never had a chance to get any schooling and he couldn't
figure well. So they used to beat him out of plenty when he would work for them. One day we
had picked cotton for a white man and when the time came to pay off, the man paid father, but
I noticed that he didn't give him all he should have. I didn't say anything while we was standing
there but after we got away I said, 'Papa, he didn't give you the right money.'

"Papa said, 'How much should he have given me?'

"I told him, and he said to me, 'Will you say that to him?'

"I said, 'Yes, papa.'

"He turned 'round and we went on back to the place and pa said, 'My boy says you didn't pay
me all that was comin' to me.'

"The white man turned to me at once and said, 'How much was coming to him?'

"I told him.

"He said, 'What makes you think that?'

"I said, 'We picked so many pounds of cotton at so much per hundred pounds, and that would
amount to so many dollars and so many cents.'

"When I said that, he fell over on the ground and like to killed his self laughing. He counted
out the right money to my father and said, 'Henry, you better watch that little skinny-eyed
nigger; he knows something.'

Present Support

"I don't got anything from the government. I live by what little I make at odd jobs."

Note: In this interview this man used correct English most of the time and the interview is
given in his own words. Lapses into dialect will be noticed.

Interviewer: Miss Irene Robertson Person interviewed: Ben Parr, Brinkley, Arkansas Age: 85
next March (1938)

"I was born in Tennessee close to Ripley. My master was Charles Warpoo and Catherine Warpoo.
They had three boys and two girls. They owned my mama and me and Gentry was the oldest child.
He died last year. My mama raised twelve children. My papa belong to people over on the Mississippi
River. Their name was Parr but I couldn't tell a thing about them. When I come to know about
them was after freedom. There was Jim Parr, Dick Parr, Columbus Parr. We lived on their place.
Both my parents was farm hands, and all twelve children wid them.

"Well, the first I recollect is that we lived on the five acre lot, the big house, and some
of the slaves lived in houses around the big yard all fenced with pailings and nice pickett
fence in front of Charlie Warpoo's house. We played around under the trees all day. The soldiers
come nearly every day and nearly et us out of house and home. The blue coats seemed the hungriest
or greediest pear lack. They both come. Master didn't go to war; his boys was too young to
go, so we was all at home. My papa shunned the war. He said he didn't give a pickayune whether
he be free or not, it wouldn't do no good if he be dead nohow. He didn't live with us doe (though).
They kept papa pretty well hid out with stock in the Mississippi River bottoms. He wasn't scared
ceptin' when he come over to see my mama and us. When we come to know anything we was free.

"I never seen nobody sold. None of my folks was sold. The folks raised my mama and they didn't
want her to leave. The folks raised papa what had him at freedom. He said him and mama was
married long before the war sprung up. I don't know how they married nor where. She was young
when they married.

"I remember hearing mama say when you went to preaching you sit in the back of the church and
sit still till the preaching was all over. They had no leaving.

"I know when I was a child people raised children, now they let them grow up. Children was
sent off or out to play, not sit and listen to what grown folks had to say. Now the children
is educated and too smart to listen to good advice. They are going to ruination. Mama used
to have our girls knit at night and she spin, weave, sew. They would tell us how to be polite
and honest and how to work. Young folks too smart to take advice now.

"Mama was cooking at the Warpoo's house; she cooked breakfast. One morning I woke up and here
was a yard full of 'Feds.' I was hungry. I went through the whole regiment--a yard full--to
mama hard as I could split. They didn't bother me. I was afraid they would carry me off sometimes.
They was great hands to tease and worry the little Negro children.

"Over at Dyersburg, Tennessee the Ku Klux was bad. Jefferie Segress was pretty prosperous,
owned his own home. John Carson whooped him, cut his ear off, treated him bad. High Sheriff
they said was a 'Fed.' He put twenty-four buck shots in John Carson. That was the last of the
Ku Klux at Dyersburg. The Negroes all left Dyersburg. They kept leaving. The 'Feds' was meaner
to them than the owners. In 1886, three weeks before Christmas, one hundred head of Negroes
got off the train here at Brinkley. The Ku Klux was the tail end of the war, whooping around.
It was a fight between the 'Feds' and the old owners--both sides telling the Negroes what to
do. The best way was stay at home and work to keep out of trouble.

"The bushwhackers killed Raymond Jones (black man) before the war closed. Well, I don't know
what they ambushed for.

"I paid my own way to Arkansas. I brought my wife. Mama was dead.

"If the Negro is a taxpayer he ought to vote like white folks. But they can't run the government.
That was tried out after that war we been talking about. Our color has faith in white folks
and this is their country. I vote some. We got a good right to vote. We helped clear out the
country. It is our home now.

"The present times is too fast. I can't place this young generation.

"This is my second wife I'm living wid now. She's got children. I never had a child. We gets
$10 off of the Welfare and I work around at pick-up jobs. I farmed all my whole life."

Interviewer: Samuel S. Taylor
Person interviewed: Frank A. Patterson
                    906 Chester Street, Little Rock, Arkansas
Age: 88

"I was born in Raleigh, North Carolina in 1850. My father was born in Baltimore, Maryland.
My mother and father was sold into Bibb County, Georgia. I don't know how much they sold for.
I don't know how much they paid for them. I don't know how much the speculator asked for them.
Used to have them in droves and you would go in and pick 'em out and pay different amounts
for them.

"I was never sold. My old boss didn't believe in selling slaves. He would buy 'em but he wouldn't
sell 'em. I'll say that much for him.

Master

"I belonged to a man named Thomas Johnson Cater.

Houses

"They lived in log houses. Some of them had weatherboard houses but the majority of them was
log houses. Two doors and one window. Some of them had plank floors. Some of them had floors
what was hewed, you know, sills. They had stick and dirt chimneys. Some of them had brick chimneys.
It depended on the master--on the situation of the master.

Furniture

"They just had bunks built up side the wall. The best experienced colored people had these
teester beds. Didn't have no slats. Had ropes. They called 'em cord beds sometimes. They had
tables just like we have now what they made themselves. Chairs were long benches made out of
planks. Little kids had big blocks to sit on where they sawed off timber.

"They had what they called a cupboard to keep the food in. Some of them had chests made out
of planks, you know. That is the way they kept it. They put a hasp and steeple on it so as
to keep the children out when they was gone to the field.

Food

"They give 'em three pounds of meat a week, peck of meal, pint of molasses; some of them give
'em three to five pounds of flour on a Sunday morning according to the size of the family.
The majority of them had shorts from the wheat. Some of the slaves would clean up a flat in
the bottoms and plant rice in it. That was where they would allow the slaves to have truck patches.

"Some few of them had chickens that was allowed to have them. Same of them had owners that
wouldn't allow their slaves to own chickens. They never allowed them to have hogs or cows.
Wherever there was a family that had a whole lot of children they would allow them to have
a cow to milk for to get milk for their children. They claimed the cow, but the master was
the owner of it. It belonged to him. He would just let them milk it. He would just let them
raise their children off of the milk it gave.

Clothes

"There was no child ever had a pair of shoes until he got old enough to go in the field. That
was when he was twelve years old. That is about all I know about it.

Schooling

"I never went to school in my life. I got hold of one of them old blue back spelling books.
My young boss gave it to me after I was free. He told me that I was free now and I had to think
and act for myself.

Signs of War

"Before the War I saw the elements all red as blood and I saw after that a great comet; and
they said there was going to be a war.

Memories of the Pre-War Campaign

"When Fillmore, Buchanan, and Lincoln ran for President one of my old bosses said, 'Hurrah
for Buchanan,' and I said, 'Hurrah for Lincoln.' One of my mistresses said, 'Why do you say,
'Hurrah for Lincoln?' And I said, 'Because he's goin' to set me free.'

"During that campaign, Lincoln came to North Carolina and ate breakfast with my master. In
those days, the kitchen was off from the house. They had for breakfast ham with cream gravy
made out of sweet milk and they had biscuits, poached eggs on toast, coffee and tea, and grits.
They had waffles and honey and maple syrup. That was what they had for breakfast.

"He told my old boss that our sons are 'ceivin' children by slaves and buyin' and sellin' our
own blood and it will have to be stopped. And that is what I know about that.

Refugeeing

"At the close of the War, we had refugeed down in Houston County in Georgia.

War Memories

"Sherman's army came through there looking for Jeff Davis, and they told me that they wasn't
fightin' any more,--that I was free.

"They said, 'You ain't got no master and no mistress.' They et dinner there. All the old folks
went upstairs and turned the house over to me and the cook. And they et dinner. One of them
said, 'My little man, bring your hat 'round now and we are going to pay you,' and they passed
the hat 'round and give me a hat full of money. I thought it wasn't no good and I carried it
and give it to my old mistress, but it was good.

"They asked me if I had ever seen Jeff Davis. I said 'No.' Then they said, 'That's him sittin'
there.' He had on a black dress and a pair of boots and a mantilla over his shoulders and a
Quaker bonnet and a black veil.

"They got up from the dining table and Sherman ordered them to 'Recover arms.' He had on a
big black hat full of eagles and he had stars and stripes all over him. That was Sherman's
artillery. They had mules with pots and skillets, and frying pans, and axes, and picks, grubbing
hoes, and spades, and so on, all strapped on those mules. And the mules didn't have no bridles
but they went on just as though they had bridles. One of the Yanks started a song when he picked
up his gun.

  'Here's my little gun
  His name is number one
  Four and five rebels
  We'll slay 'em as they come
  Join the ban'
  The rebels understan'
  Give up all the lan'
  To my brother Abraham
  Old Gen'l Lee
  Who is he?
  He's not such a man
  As our Gen'l Grant
  Snap Poo, Snap Peter
  Real rebel eater
  I left my ply stock
  Standin' in the mould
  I left my family
  And silver and gold
  Snap Poo, Snap Peter
  Real rebel eater
  Snap Poo, Snap Peter.'

"And General Sherman gave the comman', 'Silence', and 'Silence' roared one man, and it rolled
all down the line, 'Silence, silence, silence, silence.' And they all got silent.

How Freedom Came

"They had a notification for a big speaking and that was in Perry, Georgia. Everybody that
was able throughout the State went to that convention where that speaking was. And that is
where peace was declared. Every man was his own free agent. 'No more master, no more mistress.
You are your own free moral agent. Think and act for yourself.' That is how it was declared.
I didn't go to the meeting. I was right there in the town. There was too many people there.
You couldn't stir them with hot fire. But my mother and father went.

What the Slaves Expected

"They didn't expect anything but freedom. Some of them didn't have sense enough to secure a
home for themselves. They didn't have no sense. Some of them wasn't eligible to speak for themselves.
They wanted somebody to speak for them.

What They Got

"I don't know that they got anything.

Immediately After the War

"Right after the War, I stayed with the people that owned me and worked. They give me two dollars
a month and my food and clothes. I stayed with them five years and then I quit. I had sense
enough to quit and I went to work for wages. I got five dollars a month. And I thought that
was a big salary. I didn't know no better. I learnt better by experience.

Negroes in Politics

"Just after the War, the Republicans used to have representatives at the state convention.
After the Democrats got in power, they knocked all that in the head. Colored people used to
be on juries. But they won't let them serve now. (Negroes served on local grand jury last year.)

"I knew one nigger politician in Georgia named I.B. Simons. He was a school-teacher. He never
held any office. I knowed a nigger politician here by the name of John Bush. He had the United
States Land Office. When the Democrats got in power they put him out. I knowed another fellow
used to be here named Crockett Brown. He lived in Lee County, Arkansas. He was a Congressman.
I don't know whether he ever got to the White House or not. I ain't never seen no account of
it. I can't tell you all any more now.

Memories of Fred Douglass

"I knowed Fred Douglass. I shook hands with him and talked with him here in Little Rock. They
give him the opera house. We had the first floor. The white folks had the gallery. That was
when the Republicans were in power.

"He said: 'They all seem to be amazed and dumbfounded over me having a white woman for a wife.'
He said, 'You all don't know that my father was my mother's master and she was as black as
a crow. Don't it seem natural that history should repeat itself? have often wondered why he
liked such a black woman as my mother. I was jus' a chip off the old block.'

Voting

"I voted for U.S. Grant. He was the first President we had after the Civil War. I shook hands
with him twice in Little Rock. He put up at the Capitol Hotel and I was a-cooking there.

"I voted for McKinley. I saw him too. I had a walking cane with his head on it. That is about
all I remember right now. He was the one that got up this gold standard. He liked to put this
state under bayonet laws when he was working under that gold standard. The South was bitterly
against him.

Occupation

"I followed cooking all my life. I have had the white peoples' lives in my hand all my life.
I worked on the Government boat, Wichita. It went out of season and they built a boat called
the Arkansas. I cooked on it. Captain Griffin was the master of it. When it went out of service,
Captain Newcome from the War Department transferred me over to the Mississippi River on the
Arthur Hider (?). My headquarters were in Greenville, Mississippi. It was far from home, so
after nine months I quit and came home (Little Rock). Captain Van Frank give me a position
on a dredge boat and the people were so bad on there I wouldn't stay. I came away. I wouldn't
stay 'mongst 'em.

Religion

"I want you to know that I am a Christian and I want you to know I ain't got no compromise
with nobody on God's word. I ain't got but one way and that is the way Jesus said:

Come unto me all ye that are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. He that believeth on me
shall be saved.

You all fix anything anyway you want. I ain't bothered 'bout you.

"My people were good Christian people."

Interviewer: Miss Irene Robertson Person interviewed: John Patterson, Helena, Arkansas Age: 74

"I was born near Paducah, Kentucky. Mother was never sold. She belong to Master Arthur Patterson.
Mother was what folks called black folks. I never seen a father to know. I never heard mother
say a thing about my father if I had one. He never was no use to me nor her neither. Mother
brought me here in time of the Civil War. I was four years old. We come here to be kept from
the Yankee soldiers. We was sent with some of the Pattersons. At the end of the war mother
cooked for Nick Rightor (?) and his wife here in North Helena. He was a farmer but his son
is a ear, eye, nose specialist.

"I farmed, cleaned house and yards for these Helena people. I was janitor at the Episcopal
church in Helena sixteen years and four months. They paid me forty-five dollars a month.

"Yes ma'am, I have heard about the Ku Klux. Heard talk but never seen one.

"I never been in jail. I never been drunk. Folks in Helena will tell you John Patterson can
be trusted.

"I saved up one thousand dollars, just let it slip. The present times are hard. Times are hard.
I get ten dollars and comissary helps. I got one in family.

"I think mother said she was treated very good in slavery. She didn't tell me much about it.

"I own a home. It come through a will from my aunt. My uncle was a drayman here in Helena and
a close liver. I want to hold to it if I can.

"If you'd ask me what all ain't took place since I been here I could come nigh telling you.
We had colored officers here. Austin Barrer was sheriff. Half of the officers was colored at
one time. John Jones was police. No, they wasn't friends of mine. I seen these levies built.
One was here in 1897. It was rebuilt then.

"It seems to me the country is going down. When they put in the Stock Law people had to sell
so much stock. Milch cows sold for six dollars a head. People that want and need stock have
no place to raise it. People are not as industrious as they was and they accumolate more it
seems to me. We used to make our living at home. I think that is the best way.

"I voted a Republican ticket years ago. I don't believe in women voting. The Lord don't believe
in that. I belong to the Baptist church.

"Young folks don't act on education principles. Folks used to fight with fist. Now one shoots
the other down. Times are not improving morally. Folks don't even think it is wrong to take
things; that is stealing. They drink up all the money they can get. I don't see no colored
folks ever save a dollar. They did long time ago. Thaes worse in some ways.

"I forgot our plough songs:

  'I wonder where my darling is.'

  'Nigger makes de cotton and de
   White man gets the money.'

"Everybody used to sing. We worked from sun to sun; we courted and was happy. People not happy
now. They are craving now. About four o'clock we all start up singing. Sing till dark."

Interviewer: Samuel S. Taylor
Person interviewed: Sarah Jane Patterson
                    2611 Orange Street, North Little Rock, Arkansas
Age: 90

"I was born in Bartow County, Georgia, January 17, 1848. You can go there and look in that
Bible over there and you will find it all written down. My mama kept a record of all our ages.
Her old mistress kept the record and gave it to my mother after freedom.

Parents

"My parents were Joe Patterson and Mary Adeline Patterson. My mother's name before she married
was Mary Adeline Huff. My grandfather on my mother's side was named Huff. My mother's sisters
were Mahala, and Sallie. And them's the onliest two I remember. She had two brothers but I
don't remember their names.

How Freedom Came

"I was living in Bartow County in north Georgia when freedom came. I don't remember how the
slaves found it out. I remember them saying, 'Well, they's all free.' And that is all I remember.
And I remember some one saying--asking a question, 'You got to say master?' And somebody answered
and said, 'Naw.' But they said it all the same. They said it for a long time. But they learned
better though.

Family

"I have brother Willis, Lizzie, Mary, Maud, and myself. There was four sisters and one brother.
I had just one child--a boy. He lived to be a grown man and raised a family. His wife had three
children and all of them is gone. The father, the mother, and the children. I was a woman.
I wasn't no man. I just had one child, but the Lord blessed me. I have three sisters and a
brother dead.

Master

"My old master's name was John Patterson and my old mistress was named Lucy Patterson. She
had a son named Bill and a son named Tommy and a son named Charles, and a boy named Bob, and
a girl named Marion. We are so for apart they can't help me none. I know Bob's boys are dead
because they got killed in a fight in Texas.

Crippled in Slave Time

"I been crippled all my life. We was on the lawn playing and the white boy had been to the
pond to water the horses. He came back and said he was going to run over us. We all ran and
climbed up on the top of a ten rail fence. The fence gave 'way and broke and fell down with
us. I caught the load. They all fell on me. It knocked the knee out of place. They carried
me to Stilesboro to Dr. Jeffrey, a white doctor in slavery time. I don't know what he did,
but he left me with my knee out of joint after he treated it. I can't work my toes and I have
to walk with that stick.

Soldiers

"I was a tot when I seen the soldiers coming dressed in blue, and I run. They was very nice
to the colored people, never beat 'em or nothin'. I was in Bartow County when they come through.
They took a lot of things, but I can't remember exactly what it was. I 'tended to the children
then--both the white and colored children, but mostly the white.

Good Masters

"My old master, John Patterson, never beat up the women and men he bossed.

Patrollers

"I have heard people talk about the pateroles raising sand with the niggers. Some of the niggers
would say they got whipped. I was small. I would hear 'em say, 'The pateroles is out tonight.'

Ku Klux Klan

"I have seed the old Ku Klux. That was after freedom. They came 'round to my old master where
my mama stayed. They were just after whipping folks. Some of them they couldn't whip.

Support

"I used to get a little money from Mr. Dent long as he was living. I would go over there and
he would give me a dollar or two. Since he's been dead, his wife don't have much to give me.
She gives me something to eat sometimes but she doesn't have any money now that her husband
is dead.

"I can't get up to the Welfare. Crippled as I am, I can't walk up and down those stairs, and
I can't git there nohow. I been tryin' to git some one to take me up there.

"Mr. Pratt helps me from time to time, but he ain't sent me nothin' now in a good while. He's
right smart busy, but if I go to him, I spect he'll stir up somethin' for me.

Travels

"I wouldn't never a left Bartow County, but the white people made out that this was a rich
country and you could make so much out here, and we moved out here. We was young then. We came
out on the train. It was a long time back but it was too far to came on a wagon. I don't remember
just how long ago it was.

Occupation

"I used to quilt until my fingers got too stiff. I got some patterns in there now if you want
to see them."

Interviewer's Comment

The old lady took me in the house and showed me about a dozen quilts, beautifully patterned
and made. She had also some unfinished tops. She says that she does not have much of a sale
for them now because the "quality of folks" who liked such things well enough to buy them "is
just about gone."

She is crippled and unable to walk with facility. She has a great deal of difficulty in getting
off and on her porch. Still she does not impress one as feeble so much as just disabled in
one or two particulars. She has a crippled knee, and both of her hands are peculiarly stiff
in the finger joints, one more so than the other. If it were not for the disabilities, as old
as she is, I believe that she could give a good account of herself.

I didn't have the heart to tell the old lady that her Bible record is not what she thinks it
is. It is not the old original record which her mistress possessed. Neither is it the copy
of the record of her mistress which her mother kept. From questioning, I gather that the old
mistress dictated the original record to some one connected with her mother, might have written
it out herself on a sheet of paper. From time to time, as new deaths and births occurred, scraps
of paper containing them were added to the first paper, and as the papers got worn, blurred,
and dog-eared, they were copied--probably not without errors. Time came when the grandchildren
up in the grades and with semi-modern[HW:?] ideas copied the scraps into the family Bible.
By that time aging and blurring of the original lead pencil notes, together with recopying,
had invalidated the record till it is no longer altogether reliable.

The births recorded in the Bible are as follows and in the exact order given below:

  Mary Patterson       10-11-1866
  Harris Donesson       3-13-  72
  Lilley Donesson       7-21-  85
  Pearly Donesson       3-29-  92
  Silvay Williams       8-29-  84
  Beney Williams       11-24-  85
  Millia A. Williams   12-30-  88
  Joe Patterson        10- 3-  77
  H. Patterson          7-29-  79
  Maria E. Patterson   11-19-  81
  Jennie Patterson     12-24-  84
  Alex Patterson        7- 5-  86
  James Patterson       6-20-  90
  Janie Patterson       1-27-  60
  Amanda Patterson      1-28-  63
  James Rafield Walker  8-11-  99
  Cornelius Walker      7-21-1902
  Willie Walker        11-20-  03
  Elias Walker          7-21-  11
  Emmet Brown           1-23-  22
  Leon Harris          12-13-  21

The following marriages were given:

  May Lee Brown         2-26-1926
  James Walker Brown    2-21-  35
  Jennie Walker         6-20-  15
  Lillie Jean Walker    12-6-  36

The name of Sarah Jane Patterson is not in the list. The list itself is not chronological.
It is written in ink but in the stiff cramped hand to be expected of a school child not yet
thoroughly familiar with the pen. The eye fixes on the name of Janie Patterson, 1-27-1860.
It does not seem probable that this is correct if it is meant to be Sarah Jane. Sarah Jane
could give no help except to answer questions about the manner in which the record was made.

These considerations led me to set the record aside in my own mind so far as Sarah Jane Patterson's
age is concerned and to take her word. She has a very clear conception of the change from slavery
to freedom. Her memories are blurred and indistinct, but she recollects that this matter was
during slavery times and that during freedom. It seems that she had the care of the smaller
children during slavery time--at the time she saw the soldiers marching through. This was not
during the time of freedom, because she distinguished clearly the Ku Klux time. She would have
to be at least eighty to have cared for children. Her tenacious memory of ninety may have some
foundation, therefore.

Moreover where writing is done in lead pencil and hurriedly, six is often made to look like
four and a part of eight may become blurred till it looks like a zero. That would account for
1848 being transcribed as 1860. There would be nothing unusual, however, in a Sarah Jane and
a Jane. I neglected to cover that point in a question.

Interviewer: Samuel S. Taylor
Person interviewed: Solomon P. Pattillo
                    1502 Martin Street, Little Rock, Arkansas
Age: 76
Occupation: Formerly farmer, teacher, and small dealer--now blind

"I was born November 1862. I was three years old at the time of the surrender. I was born right
here in Arkansas--right down here in Tulip, Dallas County, Arkansas. I have never been out
of the state but twice.

Refugeeing

"My daddy carried me out once when they took him to Texas during the war to keep the Yanks
from setting him free.

"Then I went out once long after slavery to get a load of sand. On the way back, my boat nearly
sank. Those are the only two times I ever left the state.

Parents

"My father's name was Thomas Smith, but the Pattillos bought him and he took the name of Pattillo.
I don't know how much he sold for. That was the only time he was ever sold. I believe that
my father was born in North Carolina. It seems like to me I recollect that is where he said
he was born.

"My mother was born in Virginia. I don't know how she got here unless she was sold like my
father was. I don't know her name before she got married. Yes, I do; her name was Fannie Smith,
I believe.

Houses

"We lived in old log cabins. We had bedsteads nailed to the wall. Then we had them old fashioned
cordboard springs. They had ropes made into springs. That was a high class bed. People who
had those cord springs felt themselves. They made good sleeping. My father had one. Ropes were
woven back and forth across the bed frame.

"We had those old spinning wheels. Three cuts was a day's work. A cut was so many threads.
It was quite a day to make them. They had hanks too. The threads were all linked together.

"My mother was a spinner. My father was a farmer. Both of them worked for their master,--old
Massa, they called him, or Massa, Mass Tom, Mass John or Massta.

War Recollections

"I remember during the war when I was in Texas with a family of Moody's how old Mistiss had
me packing rocks out of the yard in a basket and cleaning the yard. I didn't know it then,
but my daddy told me later that that was when I was in Texas,--during the war. I remember that
I used to work in my shirt tail.

"The soldiers used to come in the house somewhere and take anything they could get or wanted
to take.

Pateroles

"When I was a boy they had a song, 'Run, Nigger, run; The Pateroles will get you.' They would
run you in and I have been told they would whip you. If you overstayed your time when your
master had let you go out, he would notify the pateroles and they would hunt you up and turn
you over to him.

Church Meetings

"Way long then, my father and mother used to say that man doesn't serve the Lord--the true
and living God and let it be known. A bunch of them got together and resolved to serve Him
any way. First they sang in a whisper, 'Come ye that love the Lord.' Finally they got bold
and began to sing in tones that could be heard everywhere, 'Oh for a thousand tongues to sing
my Great Redeemer's praise.'

After the War

"After the war my father fanned--made share crops. I remember once how some one took his horse
and left an old tired horse in the stable. She looked like a nag. When she got rested up she
was better than the one that was took.

"His first farm was down here in Dallas County. He made a share crop with his former master,
Pattillo. He never had no trouble with him.

Ku Klux

"I heard a good deal of talk about the Ku Klux Klan, but I don't know anything much about it.
They never bothered my father and mother. My father was given the name of being an obedient
servant--among the best help they had.

"My father farmed all his life. He died at the age of seventy-two in Tulip, near the year 1885,
just before Cleveland's inauguration. He died of typhoid pneumonia. My mother was ninety-six
years old when she died in 1909.

Little Rock

"I came to Little Rock in 1894. I came up here to teach in Fourche Dam. Then I moved here.
I taught my first school in this county at Cato. I quit teaching because my salary was so poor
and then I went into the butcher's business, and in the wood business. I farmed all the while.

"I taught school for twenty-one years. I always was a successful teacher. I did my best. If
you contract to do a job for ten dollars, do as much as though you were getting a hundred.
That will always help you to get a better job.

"I have farmed all my life in connection with my teaching. I went into other businesses like
I said a moment ago. I was a caretaker at the Haven of Rest Cemetery for sometime.

"I was postmaster from 1904 to 1911 at Sweet Home. At one time I was employed on the United
States Census.

"I get a little blind pension now. I have no other means of support.

Loss of Eyes

"The doctor says I lost my eyesight on account of cataracts. I had an operation and when I
came home, I got to stirring around and it caused me to have a hemorrhage of the eye. You see
I couldn't stay at the hospital because it was costing me $3 a day and I didn't have it. They
had to take one eye clean out. Nothing can be done for them, but somehow I feel that the lord's
going to let me see again. That's the way I feel about it.

"I have lived here in this world this long and never had a fight in my life. I have never been
mistreated by a white man in my life. I always knew my place. Some fellows get mistreated because
they get out of their place.

"I was told I couldn't stay in Benton because that was a white man's town. I went there and
they treated me white. I tried to stay with a colored family way out. They were scared to take
me. I had gone there to attend to some business. Then I went to the sheriff and he told me
that if they were scared to have me stay at their home, I could stay at the hotel and put my
horse in the livery stable. I stayed out in the wagon yard. But I was invited into the hotel.
They took care of my horse and fed it and they brought me my meals. The next morning, they
cleaned and curried and hitched my horse for me.

"I have voted all my life. I never had any trouble about it.

"The Ku Klux never bothered me. Nobody else ever did. If we live so that everybody will respect
us, the better class will always try to help us."

Interviewer: Miss Irene Robertson
Person interviewed: Carry Allen Patton
                    Forrest City, Arkansas
Age: 71

"I was born in Shelby County, Tennessee. My parents was Tillie Watts and Pierce Allen. He come
from Louisiana reckly (directly) after the surrender. My mother come from Virginia. She was
sold in Virginia and brought to middle Tennessee close to Murfreesboro and then brought to
Memphis and sold. She was dark and my father was too. They was living close to Wilmar, Arkansas
when the yellow fever was so bad. I don't remember it. Heard them talk about it.

"I heard my mother say how Mr. Jake Watts saved his money from the Yankees. They had a great
big rock flat on both sides. They put on the joints of big meat to weight it down when they
salted it down in a barrel. They didn't unjoint the meat and in the joint is where it started
to spoil. Well, he put his silver and gold in a pot. It was a big round pot and was smaller
around the top. He dug a hole after midnight. He and his two boys James and Dock put the money
in this hole in the back yard. They covered the pot with the big flat rock and put dirt on
that and next morning they planted a good big cedar tree over the rock, money and all.

"Old Master Jake died during the War and their house was burned but James lived in one of the
cabins in the yard. Dock went to the War. My mother said when they left, that tree was standing.

"My mother run off. She thought she would go cook for the men in the camps but before she got
to the camps a wagon overtook her and they stole her. They brought her to Memphis and sold
her on a block. They guarded her. She never did know who they was nor what become of them.
They kept her in the wagon on the outskirts of the city nearly a month. One man always stayed
to watch her. She was scared to death of both of them. One of the men kept a jug of whiskey
in the wagon and drunk it but he never would get dead drunk so she could slip off.

"Mr. Johnson bought her and when the surrender come on, Master Johnson took his family and
went to Texas. She begged him to take her to nurse but he said if it wasn't freedom he would
send her back to Master James Watts and he would let her go back then. He give her some money
but she never went back. She was afraid to start walking and before her money give clear out
she met up with my father and he talked her out of going back.

"She had a baby pretty soon. It was by them men that stole her. He was light. He died when
he got nearly grown. I recollect him good. I was born close to Memphis, the boy died of dysentery.

"When my mother was sold in Virginia she was carried in a wagon to the block and thought she
was going to market. She never seen her folks no more. They let them go along to market sometimes
and set in the wagon. She had a little pair of gloves she wore when she was sold her grandma
had knit for her. They was white, had half thumb and no fingers. When she died I put them in
her coffin. She had twins born dead besides me. They was born close to Wilmar, Arkansas.

"We farmed all my life in Arkansas and Mississippi. I married in Mississippi and we come back
here before Joe died. I live out here and in Memphis. My son is a janitor at the Sellers Brothers
Store in Memphis. My daughter cooks about here in town and I keep her children. I rather farm
if I was able.

"I think young folks, both colors, shuns work. Times is running away with itself. Folks is
living too fast. They ride too fast and drinks and do all kinds of meanness.

"My father was a mighty poor hand at talking. He said he was sold in a gang shipped to Memphis
from New Orleans. Master Allen bought him. He was a boy. I don't know how big. He cleaned fish--scaled
them. He butchered and in a few months Mr. Allen set him free. It was surrender when he was
sold but Mr. Allen didn't know it or else he meant to keep him on a few years. When he got
loose he started farming and farmed till he died. He farmed in Tennessee, Mississippi, and
Arkansas. He owned a place but a drouth come along. He got in debt and white folks took it.

"I married in Mississippi. My husband immigrated from South Carolina. He was Joe Patton. I
washed and ironed and farmed. I rather farm now if I was able.

"I never got no gov'ment help. I ain't posing it. It is a fine thing. I was in Tennessee when
it come on. They said I'd have to stay here six months. I never do stay."

Interviewer: Mrs. Annie L. LaCotts
Person interviewed: Harriett McFarlin Payne
                    Dewitt, Arkansas
Age: 83

"Aunt Harriett, were you born in slavery time?"

"Yes, mam! I was big enough to remember well, us coming back from Texas after we refugeed there
when the fighting of the war was so bad at St. Charles. We stayed in Texas till the surrender,
then we all come back in lots of wagons. I was sick but they put me on a little bed and me
and all the little chillun rode in a 'Jersey' that one of the old Negro mammies drove, along
behind the wagons, and our young master, Colonel Bob Chaney rode a great big black horse. Oh!
he nice-looking on dat horse! Every once and awhile he'd ride back to the last wagon to see
if everything was all right. I remember how scared us chillun was when we crossed the Red River.
Aunt Mandy said, 'We crossin' you old Red River today, but we not going to cross you any more,
cause we are going home now, back to Arkansas.' That day when we stopped to cook our dinner
I picked up a lot little blackjack acorns and when my mammy saw them she said, 'Throw them
things down, chile. They'll make you wormy.' (I cried because I thought they were chinquapins.)
I begged my daddy to let's go back to Texas, but he said, 'No! No! We going with our white
folks.' My mama and daddy belonged to Col. Jesse Chaney, much of a gentleman, and his wife
Miss Sallie was the best mistress anybody ever had. She was a Christian. I can hear her praying
yet! She wouldn't let one of her slaves hit a tap on Sunday. They must rest and go to church.
They had preaching at the cabin of some one of the slaves, and in the Summertime sometimes
they had it out in the shade under the trees. Yes, and the slaves on each plantation had their
own church. They didn't go galavanting over the neighborhood or country like niggers do now.
Col. Chaney had lots and lots of slaves and all their houses were in a row, all one-room cabins.
Everything happened in that one room,--birth, sickness, death and everything, but in them days
niggers kept their houses clean and their door yards too. These houses where they lived was
called 'the quarters'. I used to love to walk down by that row of houses. It looked like a
town and late of an evening as you'd go by the doors you could smell meat a frying, coffee
making and good things cooking. We were fed good and had plenty clothes to keep us dry and warm.

"Along about time for de surrender, Col. Jesse, our master, took sick and died with some kind
of head trouble. Then Col. Bob, our young master, took care of his mama and the slaves. All
the grown folks went to the field to work and the little chillun would be left at a big room
called the nursing home. All us little ones would be nursed and fed by an old mammy, Aunt Mandy.
She was too old to go to the field, you know. We wouldn't see our mammy and daddy from early
in the morning till night when their work was done, then they'd go by Aunt Mandy's and get
their chillun and go home till work time in the morning.

"Some of the slaves were house negroes. They didn't go to work in the fields, they each one
had their own job around the house, barn, orchard, milk house, and things like that.

"When washday come, Lord, the pretty white clothes! It would take three or four women a washing
all day.

"When two of de slaves wanted to get married, they'd dress up nice as they could and go up
to the big house and the master would marry them. All the slaves would be there too, seeing
the 'wedden'.

"Our Miss Sallie was the sweetest best thing in the world! She was so good and kind to everybody
and she loved her slaves, too. I can remember when Uncle Tony died how she cried! Uncle Tony
Wadd was Miss Sallie's favorite servant. He stayed in a little house in the yard and made fires
for her, brought in wood and water and just waited on the house. He was a little black man
and white-headed as cotton, when he died. Miss Sallie told the niggers when they come to take
him to the grave yard, to let her know when they got him in his coffin, and when they sent
and told her she come out with all the little white chillun, her little grandchillun, to see
Uncle Tony. She just cried and stood for a long time looking at him, then she said, 'Tony,
you have been a good and faithful servant.' Then the Negro men walked and carried him to the
graveyard out in a big grove in de field. Every plantation had its own graveyard and buried
its own folks, and slaves right on the place.

"If all slaves had belonged to white folks like ours, there wouldn't been any freedom wanted."

Interviewer: Miss Irene Robertson
Person interviewed: John Payne
                    Brinkley, Ark.
Age: 74

"I was born in Georgia, close to Bowles Spring, in Franklin County. My mama's master was Reverend
David Payne. He was a Baptist preacher. My mama said my father was Monroe Glassby. He was a
youngster on a neighboring plantation. He was white. His father was a landowner. I think she
said it was 70 miles east of Atlanta where they went to trade. They went to town two or three
times a year. It took about a week to go and come.

"From what Mama said they didn't know it was freedom for a long time. They worked on I know
till that crop was made and gathered. Somebody sent word to the master, Rev. David, he better
turn them slaves loose. Some of the hands heard the message. That was the first they knowed
it was freedom. My mama said she seen soldiers and heard fighting. She had heard that if the
Yankees won the war all the slaves be free. She set to studyin' what she would do. She didn't
know what to do. So when she heard it she asked If she had to be free. She told Rev. David
she wanted to stay like she had been staying. After I was up a good size boy we went to Banks
County. She done house work and field work too and I done farm work. All kinds and from sun-up
till dark every day. Sometimes I get in so late I have to make a torch light to see how to
put the feed in the troughs. We had plenty litard--pine knots--they was rich to burn.

"I used to vote but I quit since I come to Arkansas. I come in 1902. I paid my own way and
wrote back for my family. I paid their way too. I got one little grandaughter, 20 years old.
She is off trying to make her way through college. My wife had a stroke and she can't do much
no more. I got a piece of a house. It need repairs. I can't hardly pay my taxes. I can't work
much. I got two cows and six little pigs. I got eighty acres land. I worked fourteen years
for John Gazolla and that is when I made enough to buy my place. I am in debt but I am still
working. Seems like one old man can't make much."

Interviewer: Miss Irene Robertson
Person Interviewed: Larkin Payne
                    Brinkley, Ark.
Age: 85

"I was born in North Carolina. I don't recall my moster's name. My parents was Sarah Hadyn
and John Payne. They had seven children. None of them was sold. My pa was sold. He had three
sons in the Civil War. None of em was killed. One was in the war four years, the others a good
portion of two years. They was helpers.

"Grandma bought grandpa's, freedom. My great grandma was an Indian woman. My mother was dark
brown. My father was tolerable light. When I was small child they come in and tell bout people
being sold. I heard a whole lot about it that way. It was great grandma Hadyn that was the
Indian. My folks worked in the field or anywhere as well as I recollect.

"When freedom come on my folks moved to East Tennessee. I don't know whether they got good
treatment or not. They was freedom loving folks. The Ku Klux never bothered us at home. I heard
a lot of em. They was pretty hot further south. I had two brothers scared pretty bad. They
went wid some white men to South Carolina and drove hogs. The white men come back in buggies
or on the train--left them to walk back. The Ku Klux got after them. They had a hard time getting
home. I heard the Ku Klux was bad down in Alabama. They had settled down fore I went to Alabama.
I owned a home in Alabama. I took stock for it. Sold the stock and come to Arkansas. I had
seven children. We raised three.

"When my folks was set free they never got nothing. The mountain folks raised corn and made
whiskey. They made red corn cob molasses; it was good. They put lye in the whiskey; it would
kill you. They raised hogs plenty. My folks raised hogs and corn. They didn't make no whiskey.
I seen em make it and sell it too.

"I heard folks say they rather be under the home men overseers than Northern overseers. They
was kinder to em it seem like. I was jes beginnin' to go to the field when freedom come on.
I helped pile brush to be burned before freedom. I farmed when I was a boy; pulled fodder and
bundled it. I shucked corn, slopped pigs, milked, plowed a mule over them rocks, thinned out
corn. I worked twenty days in East Tennessee on the section. I cut and haul wood all winter.

"My parents both died in Arkansas. We come here to get to a fine farmin' country. We did like
it fine. I'm still here.

"I have voted. I vote if I'm needed. The white folks country and they been runnin' it. I don't
want no enemies. They been good to me. I got no egercation much. I sorter follows bout votin'.
We look to the white folks to look after our welfare.

"I get $8.00 and commodities. I work all I can git to do."

Interviewer: Miss Irene Robertson
Person interviewed: Cella Perkins
                    Marvell and Palestine, Arkansas
Age: 67

"I was born close to Macon, Georgia. Mama's old mistress, Miss Mari (Maree) Beth Woods, brung
her there from fifteen miles outer Atlanta.

"After emancipation Miss Mari Beth's husband got killed. A horse kicked him to death. It shyed
at something and it run in front of the horse. He held the horse so it couldn't run. It kicked
the foot board clean off, kicked him in the stomach. His boy crawled out of the buggy. That's
the way we knowed how it happened. She didn't hurt the boy. His name was Benjamin Woods.

"Pa went to war with his master and he never come back to mama. She never heard from him after
freedom. He got captured and got to be a soldier and went 'way off. She didn't never know if
he got killed or lost his way back home.

"Mama cooked and kept up the house. Miss Mari Beth kept a boarding house in Macon till way
after I was a big girl. I stood on a box and washed dishes and dried them for mama.

"Mr. Ben was grown when we come to Arkansas. He got his ma to go to Kentucky with him and I
heard about Arkansas. Me and mama come to Palestine. We come in a crowd. A man give us tickets
and we come by our lone selves till we got to Tennessee. A big crowd come from Dyersburg, Tennessee.
Ma got to talking and found out we was headed fo' the same place in Arkansas.

"Ma talked a whole heap at tines more 'an others (times) about slavery times. Her master didn't
take on over her much when he found out she was a barren woman. The old man Crumpton give her
to his youngest daughter, Miss Mari Beth. She always had to do all kinds of work and house turns.

"After mama's slavery husband didn't come back and she was living in Macon, she fell in love
with another man and I was a picked-up baby. Mama said Miss Mari Beth lost faith in her when
I was born but she needed her and kept her on. Said seem like she thought she was too old to
start up when she never had children when her papa owned her. They didn't like me. She said
she could trust mama but she didn't know my stock. He was a black man. Mama was black as I is.

"Miss Mari Beth had a round double table. The top table turned with the victuals on it. I knocked
flies three times a day over that table.

"I never had a store-bought dress in my life till mama bought me one at Madison, Arkansas.
I wanted a pure white dress. She said if we made a good crop she was going to give me a dress.
All the dresses I ever had was made out of Miss Mari Beth's dresses but I never had a pure
white one. I never had one bought for me till I was nearly grown. I was so proud of it. When
I would go and come back, I would pull it off and put it away. I wore it one summer white and
the next summer I blued it and had a new dress. I had a white dress nearly every year till
I got too old to dress up gay now. I got a white bonnet and apron I wears right now.

"Mama said Master Crumpton bought up babies to raise. She was taken away from her folks so
soon she never heard of them. Aunt Mat raised her up in Atlanta and out on his place. He had
a place in town but kept them on a place in the country. He had a drove of them. He hired them
out. He hired mama once to a doctor, Dr. Willbanks. Mama said old master thought she would
learn how to have children from him the reason he sent her there so much. When they had big
to-dos old master sent mama over there. She never seen no money till about freedom. She loved
to get hired out to be off from him. They all had young babies about but her. He was cross
and her husband was cross. She had pleasure hired out. She said he didn't whoop much. He stamped
his foot. They left right now.

"I hab three girls living; one here (Palestine), one at Marvell, and one in St. Louis. My youngest
girl teaches music at a big colored school. She sends me my money and I lives with these girls.
I been up there and I sure don't aim to live in no city old as I is. It's too dangerous slow
as I got to be and so much racket I never slept a night I was there. I was there a month. She
brung me home and I didn't go back.

"I cooked and washed and ironed and worked in the field. I do some work yet. I helps out where
I am.

"The times is better I think from accounts I hear. This generation all living too fast er lives.
They don't never be still a minute." St. [TR: Information moved from bottom of first page.]

My folks lived in S. Carolina and belonged to Col. Bob Baty and his family.

If I should lay down tonight I could tell when my folks were going to die, because the Lawd
would tell me in a vision.

Just before my grandmother died, I got up one morning and told my aunt that granma was dead.
Aunt said she did not want me telling lies.

Then I saw another aunt laying on the bed, and she had her hand under her jaw. She was smiling.
The house was full of people. After awhile they heard that her aunt was dead too, and after
that they paid attention to me when I told them somebody was going to die.

I'se a member of the Holiness Church. I believes step up right and keep the faith.

I seen my aunt walking up and down on a glass. The Lawd tells me in a vision to step right
up and see the faith.

I am living in Jesus. He is coming to Pine Bluff soon. He is going to separate the lions from
the sheep.

I was born in slavery times. I member folks riding around on horses.

Them days I used to wash my mistis feet and legs, and sometimes I would fall asleep against
my mistis knees. I tells the young fry to give honor to the white folks, and my preacher tell
'em to obey the white folks, dat dey are our best friends, dey is our dependence and it would
be hard getting on if we didn't have em to help us.

Spirits--Me and my husband moved into a house that a man, "uncle Bill" Hearn died in, and we
wanted dat house so bad we moved right in as soon as he was taken out, we ate supper and went
to bed.

By the time we got to sleep we heard sounds like someone was emptying shelled corn, and I hunched
up under my husband scared to death and then moved out the next day. The dead haven't gone
to Heaven. When death comes, he comes to your heart. He has your number and knows where to
find you. He won't let you off, he has the key.

Death comes and unlocks the heart and twists the breath out of that heart and carries it back
to God.

Nobody has gone to Heaven, no one can get pass Jesus until the day of his redemption, which
is judgement day.

We can't pass the door without being judged. On the day of ressurection the trumpet will sound
and us will wake up out of he graveyard, and come forth to be judged. The sea shall give up
its dead. Every nation will have to appear before God and be judged in a twinklin of an eye.
If you aren't prepared before Jesus comes, it will be too late. God is everywhere, he is the
almight. God is a nice God, he is a clean God, he is a good God. I would be afraid to tell
you a lie for God would strike me down.

Eight years ago I couldn't see, I wore specs 3 years. I forgot my specs one morning, I prayed
for my eyesight and it was restored that morning.

Our marster was a good man. De overseers sometimes wuz bad, but dey did not let marsters know
how dey treated their girl slaves. My grandmother was whipped by de overseers one time, it
made welts on her back. My sister Mary had a child by a white man.

To get joy in de morning, get up and pray and ask Him to bless you. God will feed all alike,
he is no respector of persons. He shows no extra favors twixt de rich and de poor. I was born
in May.

"I know I 'member old Missy. I just been washin' her feet and legs when they said the Yankees
was comin. Old Miss' name was Miss Sally. Her husband was a colonel. What is a colonel?

"I got some white cousins. They tell me they was the boss man's chillun.

"Yes'm, I reckon Miss Sally was good to me. I'm a old nigger. All us niggers belonged to Colonel
Beatty. I went to school a little while but I didn't learn nothin'.

"I use to be a nurse girl and sleep right upstairs.

"Missus, you know people just walkin along the street droppin dead with heart trouble and white
women killin men. I tell you lady it's awful.

"I been married just once. The Lord took him out o' my house one Sunday morning 'fore day.

"The thing about it is I got that high blood pressure. Well, Missus, I had it five years ago
and I went to Memphis and the Lord healed me. All we got to do is believe in the Lord and He
will put you on your feet.

"I had four sisters and three brothers and all of 'em dead but me, darlin.

"Now let me tell you somethin'. Old as I is, I ain't never been to but one picture show in
my life. Old as I is, I never was on a base ball ground in my life. The onliest place I go
now is to church."

Interviewer: Miss Irene Robertson Person interviewed: Rachel Perkins, Goodwin, Arkansas Age:
? Baby during the Civil War

"I was born in Greensboro, Alabama. Sallie Houston and Peter Houston was my parents. They had
two girls and a boy. They died when they was small, but me. They always told me mother died
when I was three days old in the cradle. I don't fur a fact know much about my own people.
Miss Agnes took me to raise me fur a house girl. She nursed me wid her Mary. My mother's and
father's owners was Alonso Brown and Miss Agnes Brown. Their two girls was Mary and Lucy and
their three boys was Bobby, Jesse, and Frank. Miss Agnes rocked the babies to sleep in a big
chair out on the gallery. We slept there all night. Company come and say, 'Where the babies?'
Miss Agnes take them back and show us off. They say, 'Where the little black chile?' They'd
try to get me to come go live wid them. They say they be good to me. I'd tell 'em, 'No, I stay
here.' It was good a home as I wanted. We slept on the front gallery till Lucy come on, then
we had sheep skin pallets. She got the big chair. She put us out there because it was cool.

"I left Miss Agnes when I got to be my own woman. Didn't nobody toll me off. I knowed I ought
to go to my own race of people. They come after me once. Then they sent the baby boy after
me what I had nursed. I wanted to go but I never went. Miss Lucy and Miss Mary both in college.
It was lonesome for me. I wanted to go to my color. I jus' picked up and walked on off.

"My girl is half Indian. I'm fifteen years older than my girl. Then I married Wesley Perkins,
my husband. He is black fur a fact. He died last fall. I married at my husband's brother's
by a colored preacher. Tom Screws was his name. He was a Baptist preacher.

"I never went to school a day in my life. I can't read. I can count money. Seem lack it jus'
come natural. I never learned it at no one time. It jus' come to me.

"In warm weather I slept on the gallery and in cold weather I slept by the fire. I made down
my own bed. I cleaned the house. I took the cows off to the pasture. I nursed the babies, washed
and dried the dishes. I made up the beds and cleaned the yards.

"Master Brown owned two farms. He had plenty hands on his farms. I did never go down to the
farms much but I knowed the hands. On Saturday little later than other days they brought the
stock to the house and fed. Then they went to the smokehouse for their rations. He had a great
big garden, strawberries, and grape arbors.

"One thing I had to do was worm the plants. I put the worms in a bottle and leave it in the
row where the sun would dry the worms up. When a light frost come I would water the plants
that would wilt before the sun riz and ag'in at night. Then the plants never felt the frost.
Certainly it didn't kill 'em. It didn't hurt 'em.

"Julane was the regular milk woman. She milked and strained the milk. I churned and 'tended
to the chickens. Miss Agnes sot the hens her own self. She marked the eggs with a piece of
charcoal to see if other hens laid by the setting hen. If they did she'd take the new egg out
of the nest.

"We had flower gardens. We had mint, rosemary, tansy, sage, mullen, catnip, horseradish, artichokes,
hoarhound--all good home remedies.

"I never knowed when we moved to that farm. I was so small. I heard Miss Agnes Brown say I
was a baby when they moved to Boldan depot, not fur from Clinton, Mississippi.

"When I left Miss Agnes I went to some folks my own color on another farm 'joining to their
farm. Of course I took my baby. I took Anna and I been living with Anna ever since. What I'd
do now without her. (Anna is an Indian and very proud of being half Indian.) My husband done dead.

"I get eight dollars welfare help. And I do get some commodities. Anna does all right but she
got hit on the shoulder and about lost use of her arm. One of the railroad hands up here got
mad and hit her. I had doctors. They done it a little good. It's been hurt three years or more now.

"I wisht I knowd where to find a bed of mullen. Boil it down to a syrup and add some molasses,
boil that down. It makes a good syrup for coughs and colds.

"I never went to white folks' church none hardly. Miss Agnes sent me along with her cook to
my own color's church.

"My husband sure was good to me. We never had but one fight. Neither one whooped.

"This young generation is going backward. They tired of training. They don't want no advice.
They don't want to work out no more. They don't know what they want. I think folks is trifling
than they was when I come on. The times is all right and some of the people. I'm talking about
mine and yo' color both."

Interviewer: Mrs. Bernice Bowden
Person interviewed: Dinah Perry
                    1800 Ohio Street, Pine Bluff, Arkansas
Age: 78

"Yes ma'am, I lived in slavery times. They brought me from Alabama, a baby, right here to this
place where I am at, Mr. Sterling Cockril.

"I don't know zackly when I was born but I member bout the slave times. Yes ma'am, I do. After
I growed up some, I member the overseer--I do. I can remember Mr. Burns. I member when he took
the hands to Texas. Left the chillun and the old folks here.

"Oh Lord, this was a big plantation. Had bout four or five hundred head of niggers.

"My mother done the milkin' and the weavin'. After free times, I wove me a dross. My mother
fixed it for me and I wove it. They'd knit stockin's too. But now they wear silk. Don't keep
my legs warm.

"I member when they fit here in Pine Bluff. I member when 'Marmajuke' sent word he was gain'
to take breakfast with Clayton that mornin' and they just fit. I can remember that was 'Marmajuke.'
It certainly was 'Marmajuke.' The Rebels tried to carry me away but the wagon was so full I
didn't get in and I was glad they didn't. My mother was runnin' from the Rebels and she hid
under the cotehouse. After the battle was over she come back hero to the plantation.

"I had three brothers and three sisters went to Texas and I know I didn't know em when they
come back.

"I member when they fit here a bum shell fell right in the yard. It was big around as this
stovepipe and was all full of chains and things.

"After free time my folks stayed right here and worked on the shares. I was the baby chile
and never done no work till I married when I was fifteen.

"After the War I went to school to white teachers from the North. I never went to nothin' but
them. I went till I was in the fifth grade.

"My daddy learned me to spell 'lady' and 'baker' and 'shady' fore I went to school. I learned
all my ABC's too. I got out of the first reader the second day. I could just read it right
on through. I could spell and just stand at the head of the class till the teacher sent me
to the foot all the time.

"My daddy was his old mistress' pet. He used to carry her to school all the time and I guess
that's where he got his learnin'.

"After I was married I worked in the field. Rolled logs, cut brush, chopped and picked cotton.

"I member when they had that 'Bachelor' (Brooks-Baxter) War up here at Little Rock.

"After my chillun died, I never went to the field no more. I just stayed round mongst the white
folks nussin'. All the chillun I nussed is married and grown now.

"All this younger generation--white and colored--I don't know what's gwine come of em. The
poet says:

  'Each gwine a different way
  And all the downward road.'" I couldn't
tell what year I was bawn 'cause I was a baby. A chile can't tell what
year he was bawn 'less they tells him and they sure didn't tell me.

"When I'd wake up in the mawnin' my mother would be gone to the field.

"Some things I can remember good but you know old folks didn't 'low chillun to stand around
when they was talkin' in dem days. They had to go play. They had to be mighty particular or
they'd get a whippin'.

"Chillun was better in them days 'cause the old folks was strict on 'em. Chillun is raisin'
theirselves today.

"I 'member one song they used to sing

  'We'll land over shore
  We'll land over shore;
  And we'll live forever more.'

"They called it a hymn. They'd sing it in church, then they'd all get to shoutin'.

"Superstitions? Well, I seen a engineer goin' to work the other day and a black cat run in
front of him, and he went back 'cause he said he would have a wreck with his train if he didn't.
So you see, the white folks believes in things like that too.

"I never was any hand to play any games 'cept 'Chick. Chick.' You'd ketch 'hold a hands and
ring up. Had one outside was the hawk and some inside was the hen and chickens.

"We was more 'ligious than the chillun nowadays. We used to play preachin' and baptisin'. We'd
put 'em down in the water and souse 'em and we'd shout just like the old folk. Yes ma'am."

Interviewer: Mrs. Bernice Bowden
Person interviewed: Alfred Peters, 1518 Bell Street,
                    Pine Bluff, Arkansas
Age: 78

"I was born seven miles from Camden.

"I was 'leven months old when they carried us to Texas. First thing I remember I was in Texas.

"Lucius Grimm was old master. He's been dead a long time. His wife died 'bout two years after
the Civil War and he died twenty-five years after.

"I 'member durin' of the war he buried his stuff---silverware and stuff--and he never took
it up. And after he died his brother's son lived in California, and he come back and dug it up.

"The Yankees burned up four hundred bales of cotton and taken the meat and two cribs of corn.

"I heard 'em talk 'bout the Ku Klux but I never did see 'em.

"My mother said old Mars Lucius was good to his folks. She said he first bought her and then
she worried so 'bout my father, he paid twenty-five hundred dollars for him.

"Biggest part of my life I farmed, and then I done carpenter work.

"I been blind four years. The doctor says it's cataracts.

"I think the younger generation goin' to cause another war. They ain't studyin' nothin' but
pleasure."

Interviewer: S.S. Taylor
Person interviewed: Mary Estes Peters,
                    3115 W. 17th Street, Little Rock, Arkansas
Age: 78

Biographical

Mary Estes Peters was born a slave January 30, 1860 in Missouri somewhere. Her mother was colored
and her father white, the white parentage being very evident in her color and features and
hair. She is very reticent about the facts of her birth. The subject had to be approached from
many angles and in many ways and by two different persons before that part of the story could
be gotten.

Although she was born in Missouri, she was "refugeed" first to Mississippi and then here, Arkansas.
She is convinced that her mother was sold at least twice after freedom,--once into Mississippi,
one into Helena, and probably once more after reaching Arkansas, Mary herself being still a
very small child.

I think she is mistaken on this point. I did not debate with her but I cross-examined her carefully
and it appears to me that there was probably in her mother's mind a confused knowledge of the
issuance of the Emancipation Proclamation in 1862. Lincoln's Compensation Emancipation plan
advocated in March 1863, the Abolition in the District of Columbia in 1862 in April, the announcement
of Lincoln's Emancipation intention in July 1862, the prohibition of slavery in present and
future territories, June 19, 1862, together with the actual issuance of the Emancipation in
September 1862, and the effectiveness of the proclamation in January 1, 1863, would well give
rise to an impression among many slaves that emancipation had been completed.

As a matter of fact, Missouri did not secede; the Civil War which nevertheless ensued would
find some slaveholders exposed to the full force of the 1862 proclamation in 1863 at the time
of its first effectiveness. Naturally it did not become effective in many other places till
1865. It would very naturally happen then that a sale in Missouri in the latter part of 1862
or any time thereafter might be well construed by ex-slaves as a sale after emancipation, especially
since they do not as a rule pay as much attention to the dates of occurrences as to their sequence.
This interpretation accords with the story. Only such an explanation could make probable a
narrative which places the subject as a newborn babe in 1860 and sold after slavery had ceased
while still too young to remember. Her earliest recollections are recollections of Arkansas.

She has lived in Arkansas ever since the Civil War and in Little Rock ever since 1879. She
made a living as a seamstress for awhile but is now unable to sew because of fading eyesight.
She married in 1879 and led a long and contented married life until the recent death of her
husband. She lives with her husband's nephew and ekes out a living by fragmentary jobs. She
has a good memory and a clear mind for her age.

Slave After Freedom

"My mother was sold after freedom. It was the young folks did all that devilment. They found
they could get some money out of her and they did it. She was put on the block in St. Louis
and sold down into Vicksburg, Mississippi. Then they sold her into Helena, Arkansas. After
that they carried her down into Trenton (?), Arkansas. I don't know whether they sold her that
time or not, but I reckon they did. Leastways, they carried her down there. All this was done
after freedom. My mother was only fifteen years old when she was sold the first time, and I
was a baby in her arms. I don't know nothing about it myself, but I have heard her tell about
it many and many a time. It was after freedom. Of course, she didn't know she was free.

"It was a good while before my mother realized she was free. She noticed the other colored
people going to and fro and she wondered about it. They didn't allow you to go round in slave
times. She asked them about it and they told her, 'Don't you know you are free?' Some of the
white people too told her that she was free. After that, from the way she talked, I guess she
stayed around there until she could go some place and get wages for her work. She was a good cook.

Mean Mistress

"I have seen many a scar on my mother. She had mean white folks. She had one big scar on the
side of her head. The hair never did grow back on that place. She used to comb her hair over
it so that it wouldn't show. The way she got it was this:

"One day her mistress went to high mass and left a lot of work for my mother to do. She was
only a girl and it was too much. There was more work than she could get done. She had too big
a task for a child to get done. When her old mistress came back and her work was not all done,
she beat my mother down to the ground, and then she took one of the skillets and bust her over
the head with it--trying to kill her, I reckon. I have seen the scar with my own eyes. It was
an awful thing.

"My mother was a house servant in Missouri and Mississippi. Never done no hard work till she
came here (Arkansas). When they brought her here they tried to make a field hand out of her.
She hadn't been used to chopping cotton. When she didn't chop it fast as the others did, they
would beat her. She didn't know nothing about no farmwork. She had all kinds of trouble. They
just didn't treat her good. She used to have good times in Missouri and Mississippi but not
in Arkansas. They just didn't treat her good. In them days, they'd whip anybody. They'd tie
you to the bed or have somebody hold you down on the floor and whip you till the blood ran.

"But, Lawd, my mother never had no use for Catholics because it was a Catholic that hit her
over the head with that skillet--right after she come from mass.

Food

"My mother said that they used to pour the food into troughs and give it to the slaves. They'd
give them an old, wooden spoon or something and they all eat out of the same dish or trough.
They wouldn't let the slaves eat out of the things they et out of. Fed them just like they
would hogs.

"When I was little, she used to come to feed me about twelve o'clock every day. She hurry in,
give me a little bowl of something, and then hurry right on out because she had to go right
back to her work. She didn't have time to stay and see how I et. If I had enough, it was all
right. If I didn't have enough, it was all right. It might be pot liquor or it might be just
anything.

"One day she left me alone and I was lying on the floor in front of the fireplace asleep. I
didn't have no bed nor nothing then. The fire must have popped out and set me on fire. You
see they done a whole lot of weaving in them days. And they put some sort of lint on the children.

"I don't reckon children them days knowed what a biscuit was. They just raked up whatever was
left off the table and brung it to you. Children have a good time nowadays.

"People goin' to work heard me hollering and came in and put out the fire. I got scars all
round my waist today I could show you.

"Another time my mother had to go off and leave me. I was older then. I guess I must have gotten
hungry and wanted to get somethin' to eat. So I got up and wandered off into the woods. There
weren't many people living round there then. (This was in Trenton (?), Arkansas, a small place
not far from Helena.) And the place was [HW: not] built up much then and they had lots of wolves.
Wolves make a lot of noise when they get to trailin' anything. I got about a half mile from
the road and the wolves got after me. I guess they would have eat me up but a man heard them
howling, and he knew there wasn't no house around there but ours, and he came to see what was
up, and he beat off the wolves and carried me back home. There wasn't nare another house round
there but ours and he knew I must have come from there.

"Mother was working then. It was night though. They brung the news to her and they wouldn't
let her come to me. Mother said she felt like getting a gun and killin' them. Her child out
like that and they wouldn't let her go home.

"That must have happened after freedom, because it was the last mistress she had. Almost all
her beatings and trouble came from her last mistress. That woman sure gave her a lot of trouble.

Age, Good Masters

"All I know about my age is what my mother told me.

"The first people that raised my mother had her age in the Bible. She said she was about fifteen
years old when I was born. From what she told me, I must be about seventy-eight years old.
She taught me that I was born on Sunday, on the thirtieth of January, in the year before the War.

"My mother's name was Myles. I don't know what her first master's name was. She told me I was
born in Phelps County, Missouri; I guess you'd call it St. Louis now. I am giving you the straight
truth just as she gave it to me.

"From the way she talked, the people what raised her from a child were good to her. They raised
her with their children. Them people fed her just like they fed their own children.

Color and Birth

"There was a light brownskin boy around there and they give him anything that he wanted. But
they didn't like my mother and me--on account of my color. They would talk about it. They tell
their children that when I got big enough, I would think I was good as they was. I couldn't
help my color. My mother couldn't either.

"My mother's mistress had three boys, one twenty-one, one nineteen, and one seventeen. Old
mistress had gone away to spend the day one day. Mother always worked in the house. She didn't
work on the farm in Missouri. While she was alone, the boys came in and threw her down on the
floor and tied her down so she couldn't struggle, and one after the other used her as long
as they wanted for the whole afternoon. Mother was sick when her mistress came home. When old
mistress wanted to know what was the matter with her, she told her what the boys had done.
She whipped them and that's the way I came to be here.

Sales and Separations

"My mother was separated from her mother when she was three years old. They sold my mother
away from my grandmother. She don't know nothing about her people. She never did see her mother's
folks. She heard from them. It must have been after freedom. But she never did get no full
understanding about them. Some of them was in Kansas City, Kansas. My grandmother, I don't
know what became of her.

"When my mother was sold into St. Louis, they would have sold me away from her but she cried
and went on so that they bought me too. I don't know nothing about it myself, but my mother
told me. I was just nine months old then. They would call it refugeeing. These people that
had raised her wanted to get something out of her because they found out that the colored people
was going to be free. Those white people in Missouri didn't have many slaves. They just had
four slaves--my mother, myself, another woman and an old colored man called Uncle Joe. They
didn't get to sell him because he bought hisself. He made a little money working on people
with rheumatism. They would ran the niggers from state to state about that time to keep them
from getting free and to get something out of them. My mother was sold into Mississippi after
freedom. Then she was refugeed from one place to another through Helena to Trenton (?), Arkansas.

Marriages

"My mother used to laugh at that. The master would do all the marryin'. I have heard her say
that many a time. They would call themselves jumpin' the broom. I don't know what they did.
Whatever the master said put them together. I don't know just how it was fixed up, but they
helt the broom and master would say, 'I pronounce you man and wife' or something like that.

Ku Klux

"My mother talked about the Ku Klux but I don't know much about them. She talked about how
they would ride and how they would go in and destroy different people's things. Go in the smoke
house and eat the people's stuff. She said that they didn't give the colored people much trouble.
Sometimes they would give them something to eat.

"When they went to a place where they didn't give the colored people much to eat, what they
didn't destroy they would say, 'Go get it.' I don't know how it was but the Ku Klux didn't
have much use for certain white people and they would destroy everything they had.

"I have lived in Arkansas about all my life. I have been in Little Rock ever since January
30, 1879. I don't know how I happened to move on my birthday. My husband brought me here for
my rheumatism.

"I married in 1879 and moved here from Marianna. I had lived in Helena before Marianna.

Voting

"The niggers voted in Marianna and in Helena. They voted in Little Rock too. I didn't know
any of them. It seems like some of the people didn't make so much talk about it. They did,
I guess, though. Many of the farmers would tell their hands who they wanted them to vote for,
and they would do it.

"Them was critical times. A man would kill you if he got beat. They would say, 'So and so lost
the lection,' and then somebody would go to Judgment. I remember once they had a big barbecue
in Helena just after the 'lection. They had it for the white and for the colored alike. We
didn't know there was any trouble. The shooting started on a hill where everybody could see.
First thing you know, one man fell dead. Another dropped down on all fours bleeding, but he
retch in under him and dragged out a pistol and shot down the man that shot him. That was a
sad time. Niggers and white folks were all mixed up together and shooting. It was the first
time I had ever been out. My mother never would let me go out before that.

Seamstress

"I ain't able to do much of anything now. I used to make a good living as a dressmaker. I can't
sew now because of my eyes. I used to make many a dollar before my eyes got to failing me.
Make pants, dresses, anything. When you get old, you fail in what you been doing. I don't get
anything from the government. They don't give me any kind of help."

Interviewer: Mrs. Bernice Bowden
Person interviewed: John Peterson, 1810 Eureka Street,
                    Pine Bluff, Arkansas
Age: 80

"I was small but I can remember some 'bout slavery days. I was born down here in Louisiana.

"I seed dem Yankees come through. Dey stopped dere and broke up all de bee gums. Just tore
'em up. And took what dey could eat and went on. Dey was doin' all dey could do. No tellin'
what dey didn't do. People what owned de place just run off and left. Yankees come dere in
de night. I 'member dat. Had ever'thing excited, so my white folks just skipped out. Oh, yes,
dey come back after the Yankees had gwine on.

"You could hear dem guns shootin' around. I heered my mother and father say de Yankees was
fightin' to free slavery.

"Run off? Oh Lawd, yes ma'am, I heered 'em say dey was plenty of 'em run off.

"George Swapsy was our owner. I know one thing, dey beat me enough. Had me watchin' de garden
to keep de chickens out. And sometimes I'd git to playin' and fergit and de chickens would
git in de garden, and I'd pay for it too. I can 'member dat. Yes'm, dat was before freedom.
Dey was whippin' all de colored people--and me too.

"Yes'm, dey give us plenty to eat, but dey didn't give us no clothes. I was naked half my time.
Dat was when I was a little fellow.

"We all belonged to de same man. Dey never did 'part us. But my mother was sold away from her
people--and my father, too. He come from Virginia.

"No ma'am, dey didn't have a big plantation--just a little place cleared up in the woods.

"He didn't have no wife--just two grown sons and dey bof went to the war.

"Mars George died 'fore peace declared. He was a old fellow--and mean as he could be.

"I never went to school till I was sixteen or seventeen years old. Dere was a colored fellow
had a little learnin' and we hired him two nights in de week for three dollars a month. Did
it for three years. I can read a little and write my own name and sort of 'tend to my own business.

"Yes'm, I used to vote after I got grown. Yes'm, I did vote Republican. But de white people
stopped us from votin'. Dat was when Seymour and Blair was runnin', and I ain't voted none
since--I just quit. I've known white people to go to the polls wif der guns and keep de colored
folks from votin'.

"Oh, dey was plenty of Ku Klux. I've known 'em to ketch people and whip 'em and kill 'em. Dey
didn't bother me--I didn't give 'em a chance. Ku Klux--I sure 'member dem.

"Younger generation? Well, Miss, you're a little too hard for me. Hard to tell what'll become
of 'em. I know one thing--dey is wiser. Oh, my Lawd! A chile a year old know more'n I did when
I was ten. We didn't have no chance. Didn't have nobody to learn us nothin'. People is just
gittin' wuss ever' day. Killin' 'em up ever' day. She was Frances Rotan. I was born at Elba,
South Carolina, forty miles below Augusta, Georgia. My papa was born at Macon, Georgia. Both
my parents was slaves. He farmed and was a Baptist preacher. Mama was a cook.

"Mama was owned by some of the Willis. There was three; Mike, Bill, and Logie Willis, all brothers,
and she lived with them all but who owned her I don't know. She never was sold. Papa wasn't
either. Mama lived at Aiken till papa married her. She belong to some of the Willis. They married
after freedom. She had three husbands and fifteen children.

"Mama had a soldier husband. He took her to James Island. She runned off from him. Got back
across the sea to Charleston to Aunt Anette's. She was mama's sister. Mama sent back to Aiken
and they got her back to her folks. Aunt Anette had been sold to folks at Charleston.

"Grandma was Rachel Willis. She suckled some of the Willis children. Mama suckled me and Mike
Willis together. His mama got sick and my mama took him and raised him. She got well but their
names have left me. When we got sick the Willis women would send a hamper basket full of provisions,
some cooked and some to be cooked. I used to sweep their yards. They was white sand and not
a sprig of grass nor a weed in there.

"Mama and papa was both slavery niggers and they spoke mighty well of their owners.

"Papa said in slavery times about two nights in a week they would have a dance. He would slip
off and go. Sometimes he would get a pass. He was a figger caller till he 'fessed religion.
One time the pattyrollers come in. They said, 'All got passes tonight.' When they had about
danced down my daddy got a shovelful of live coals and run about scattering it on the floor.
All the niggers run out and he was gone too. It was a dark night. A crowd went up the road
and here come the pattyrollers. One run into grapevines across the road and tumbled off his
horse. The niggers took to the woods then. Pa tole us about how he studied up a way to get
himself and several others outer showing their passes that night. Master never found that out
on him.

"During the War they sent a lot of the meat to feed the soldiers on and kept the skins and
sides. They tole them if the Yankees ask them if they had enough to eat say, 'See how greasy
and slick I is.' They greased their legs and arms to make them shine and look fat. The dust
made the chaps look rusty.

"Papa saved his young mistress' life. His master was gone to war. He had promised with others
to take care of her. The Yankees come and didn't find meat. It was buried. They couldn't find
much. They got mad and burned the house. Pa was a boy. He run up there and begged folks not
to burn the house; they promised to take care of everything. Papa begged to let him get his
mistress and three-day-old baby. They cursed him but he run in and got her and the baby. The
house fell in before they got out of the yard. He took her to the quarters. Papa was overstrained
carrying a log and limped as long as he lived.

"Pa was hired out and they was goner whoop him and he run off and got back to the master. Ma
nor pa was never sold.

"We had a reason to come out here to Arkansas. A woman had a white husband and a black one
too. The black husband told the white husband not come about there no more. He come on. The
black man killed the white man at his door. They lynched six or seven niggers. They sure did
kill him. That dissatisfied all the niggers. That took place in Barnwell County, South Carolina.
Three train loads of us left. There was fifteen in our family. We was doing well. My pa had
cattle and money. They stopped the train befo' and behind us--the train we was on. Put the
Arkansas white man in Augusta jail. They stopped us all there. We got to come on. We was headed
for Pine Bluff. We got down there 'bout Altheimer and they was living in tents. Pa said he
wasn't goiner tent, he didn't run away from South Carolina and he'd go straight back. Mr. Aydelott
got eight families on track at Rob Roy to come to Biscoe. We got a house here. Pa was old and
they would listen at what he said. He made a speech at Rob Roy and told them let's come to
Biscoe. Eleven families come. He had two hundred or three hundred dollars then in his pocket
to rattle. He could get more. He grieved for South Carolina, so he went back and took us but
ma wanted to coma back. They stayed back there a year or two. We made a crop. Pa was the oldest
boss in his crowd. We all come back. There was more room out here and so many of us.

"The schools was better out there. I went to Miss Scofield's College. All the teachers but
three was colored. There was eight or ten colored teachers. It was at Aiken, South Carolina.
Miss Criley was our sewing mistress. Miss Criley was white and Miss Scofield was too. I didn't
have to pay. Rich folks in the North run the school. No white children went there. I think
the teachers was sent there.

"I taught school out here at Blackton and Moro and in Prairie County about. I got tired of
it. I married and settled down.

"We owns my home here. My husband was a railroad man. We lives by the hardest.

"I don't know what becoming of the young generation. They shuns the field work. Times is faster
than I ever seen them. I liked the way times was before that last war (World War). Reckon when
will they get back like that?"

Interviewer: Miss Irene Robertson Person interviewed: Henry C. Pettus, Marianna, Arkansas Age: 80

"I was born in Wilkes County, near Washington, Georgia. My mother's owners was Dr. Palmer and
Sarah Palmer. They had three boys; Steve, George, and Johnie. They lived in Washington and
the farm I lived on was five miles southeast of town. It was fifty miles from Augusta, Georgia.
He had another farm on the Augusta Road. He had a white man overseer. His name was Tom Newsom
and his nephew, Jimmie Newsom, helped. He was pretty smooth most of the time. He got rough
sometimes. Tom's wife was named Susie Newsom.

"Dick Gilbert had a place over back of ours. They sent things to the still at Dick Gilbert's.
Sent peaches and apples and surplus corn. The still was across the hill from Dr. Palmer's farm.
He didn't seem to drink much but the boys did. All three did. Dr. Palmer died in 1861. People
kept brandy and whiskey in a closet and some had fancy bottles they kept, one brandy, one whiskey,
on their mantel. Some owners passed drinks around like on Sunday morning. Dr. Palmer didn't
do that but it was done on some places before the Civil War. It wasn't against the law to make
spirits for their own use. That is the way it was made. Meal and flour was made the same way then.

"Mother lived in Dr. Palmer's office in Warren County. It was a very nice log house and had
a fence to make the front on the road and the back enclosed like. Inside the fence was a tanyard
and house at some distance and a very nice log house where Mr. Hudson lived. Dr. Palmer and
Mr. Hudson had that place together. The shoemaker lived in Washington in Dr. Palmer's back
yard. He had his office and home all in the same. Mr. Anthony made all the shoes for Dr. Palmer's
slaves and for white folks in town. He made fine nice shoes. He was considered a high class
shoemaker.

"Mother was a field hand. She wasn't real black. My father never did do much. He was a sort
of a foreman. He rode around. He was lighter than I am. He was old man Pettus' son. Old man
Pettus had a great big farm--land! land! land! Wiley and Milton Roberts had farms between Dr.
Palmer and old man Pettus' farm. Mother originally belong to old man Pettus. He give Miss Sarah
Palmer her place on the Augusta Road and his son the place on which his own home was. They
was his white children. He had two. Mother was hired by her young mistress, Dr. Palmer's wife,
Miss Sarah. Father rode around, upheld by the old man Pettus. He never worked hard. I don't
know if old man Pettus raised grandma or not; he never grandpa. He was a Terral. He died when
I was small. Grandpa was a field hand. He was the only colored man on the place allowed to
have a dog. He was Dr. Palmer's stock man. They raised their own stock; sheep, goats, cows,
hogs, mules, and horses.

"None of us was ever sold that I know of. Mother had three boys and three girls. One sister
died in infancy. One sister was married and remained in Georgia. Two of my brothers and one
sister come to Arkansas. Mother brought us boys to a new country. Father got shot and died
from the womb. He was a captain in the war. He was shot accidentally. Some of them was drinking
and pranking with the guns. We lived on at Dr. Palmer's place till 1866. That was our first
year in Arkansas. That was nearly two years. We never was abused. My early life was very favorable.

"The quarters was houses built on each side of the road. Some set off in the field. They must
have had stock law. We had pastures. The houses was joining the pasture. Mr. Pope had a sawmill
on his place. The saw run perpendicularly up and down. He had a grist mill there too. I like
to go to mill. It was dangerous for young boys. Mr. Pope's farm joined us on one side. Oxen
was used as team for heavy loads. Such a contrast in less than a century as trucks are in use
now. I learned about oxen. They didn't go fast 'ceptin' when they ran away. They would run
at the sight of water in hot weather. They was dangerous if they saw the river and had to go
down a steep bank, load or no load the way they went. If it was shallow they would wade but
if it was deep they would swim unless the load was heavy enough to pull them down. Oxen was
interesting to me always.

"Children didn't stay in town like they do now. They was left to think more for themselves.
They hardly ever got to go to town.

"We raised a pet pig. Nearly every year we raised a pet pig. When mother would be out that
pig would get my supper in spite of all I could do. The pig was nearly as large as I was. I
couldn't do anything. We had a watermelon patch and sometimes sold Dr. Palmer melons. He let
us have a melon patch and a cotton patch our own to work. Mother worked in moonlight and at
odd times. They give that to her extra. We helped her work it. They give old people potato
patches and let the children have goober rows. Land was plentiful. Dr. Palmer wasn't stingy
with his slaves--very liberal. He was a man willing to live and let live so far as I can know
of him.

"During the Civil War things was quiet like where I was. The soldiers didn't come through till
after the war was over. Then the Union soldiers took Washington. They come there after the
surrender.

Freedom

"The Union soldiers came in a gang out from Washington all over the surrounding country, scouting
about, and notified all the black folks of freedom. My folks made arrangements to stay on.
Two colored men went through the country getting folks to move to southwest Georgia but before
mother decided to move anywhere along come two men and they had a helper, Mr. Allen. It was
Mr. William H. Wood and Mr. Peters over here on Cat Island. They worked from Washington, Georgia.
We consented to leave and come to Arkansas. We started and went to Barnetts station to Augusta,
to Atlanta. There was so many tracks out of order, bridges been burnt. We crossed the river
at Chattanooga, then to Nashville, then to Johnsonville. We took a boat to Cairo, then to Memphis,
then on to some landing out here. Well, I never heard. We went to the Woods' place and made
a crop here in Arkansas in 1866. I worked with John I. Foreman till 1870 and went back to the
Woods' farm till 1880. Then I went to the Bush place (now McCullough farm). I farmed all along
through life till the last twelve years. I started preaching in 1875. I preach yet occasionally.
I preached here thirty-six years in the Marianna Baptist church. I quit last year. My health
broke down.

"Chills was my worst worry in these swamps. We made fine crops. In 1875 yellow fever come on.
Black folks didn't have yellow fever at first but they later come to have it. Some died of
it. White folks had died in piles. It was hard times for some reason then. It was hard to get
something to eat. We couldn't get nothing from Memphis. Arrangements was made to get supplies
from St. Louis to Little Rock and we could go get them and send boats out here.

"In 1875 was the tightest, hardest time in all my life, A chew of tobacco cost ten cents. In
1894-'95 hard times struck me again. Cotton was four and five cents a pound, flour three dollars
a barrel, and meat four and five cents a pound. We raised so much of our meat that didn't make
much difference. Money was so scarce.

"Ku Klux--I never was in the midst of them. They was pretty bad in Georgia and in northeast
part of this county. They was bad so I heard. They sent for troops at Helena to settle things
up at about Marion, Arkansas now. I heard more of the Ku Klux in Georgia than I heard after
we come here. And as time went on and law was organized the Ku Klux disbanded everywhere.

"Traveling conditions was bad when we came to Arkansas. We rode in box cars, shabby passenger
coaches. The boats was the best riding. As I told you we went way around on account of burnt
out and torn up bridges. The South looked shabby.

"I haven't voted since 1927 except I voted in favor of the Cotton Control Saturday before last.

"Times has come up to a most deplorable condition. Craving exists. Ungratefulness. People want
more than they can make. Some don't work hard and some won't work at all. I don't know how
to improve conditions except by work except economical living. Some would work if they could.
Some can work but won't. Some do work hard. I believe in bread by the sweat of the brow, and
all work.

"The slaves didn't expect anything. They didn't expect war. It was going on a while before
my parents heard of it. I was a little boy. They didn't know what it was for except their freedom.
They didn't know what freedom was. They couldn't read. They never seen a newspaper like I take
the Commercial Appeal now. I went to school a little in Arkansas. My father being old man Pettus'
son as he was may have been given something by Miss Sarah or Dr. Palmer or by his white son,
but the old man was dead and I doubt that. Father was killed and mother left. Mother knew she
had a home on Dr. Palmer's land as long as she needed one but she left to do better. In some
ways we have done better but it was hard to live in these bottoms. It is a fine country now.

"I own eighty acres of land and this house. (Good house and furnished well.) We made six bales
of cotton last year. My son lives here and his wife--a Chicago reared mulatto, a cook. He runs
my farm. I live very well."

Interviewer: Miss Irene Robertson Person interviewed: Dolly Phillips, Clarendon, Arkansas Age: 67

"I ain't no ex-slave. I am 67 years old. I was born out here on the Mullins place. My mother's
master was Mr. Ricks and Miss Emma Ricks.

"My mother named Diana and my father Henry Mullins. I never saw my grand fathers and I seen
one grandma I remembers. My mother had ten children. My father said he never owned nuthin'
in his life but six horses. When they was freed they got off to their selves and started farming.
See they belong to different folks. My father's master was a captain of a mixed regiment. They
was in the war four years. I heard 'em say they went to Galveston, Texas. The Yankees was after
'em. But I don't know how it was.

"I heard 'em say they put their heads under big black pot to pray. They say sing easy, pray
easy. I forgot whut all she say.

"I lives wid my daughter. I gets commodities from the Welfare some. The young folks drinks
a heap now. It look lack a waste of money to me."

Interviewer: Miss Irene Robertson
Person Interviewed: Tony Piggy
                    Brinkley, Ark.
Age: 75

"I was born near Selma, Alabama, but I was raised in Mississippi. My grandpa was sold from
South Carolina to Moster Alexander Piggy. He didn't talk plain but my papa didn't nother. Moster
Piggy bought a gang of black folks in South Carolina and brought em into the state of Alabama.
My papa was mighty near full-blood African, I'll tell you. Now ma was mixed.

"I'm most too young to recollect the war. Right after the war we had small pox. My uncle died
and there was seven children had em at one time. The bushwhackers come in and kicked us around--kicked
my uncle around. We lived at Union Town, Alabama then.

"Aunt Connie used to whip us. Mama had no time; she was a chambermaid (housewoman). The only
thing I recollect bout slavery time to tell is Old Mistress pour out a bushell of penders (peanuts)
on the grass to see us pick em up and set out eating em. When they went to town they would
bring back things like cheese good to eat. We got some of what they had most generally. She
wasn't so good; she whoop me with a cow whip. She'd make pull candy for us too. I got a right
smart of raisin' in a way but I growed up to be a wild young man. I been converted since then.

"Well, one day pa come to our house and told mama, 'We free, don't have to go to the house
no more, git ready, we all goin' to Mississippi. Moster Piggy goiner go. He goner rent us twenty
acres and we goner take two cows and a mule.' We was all happy to be free and goin' off somewhere.
Moster Piggy bought land in Mississippi and put families renters on it. Moster Piggy was rough
on the grown folks but good to the children. The work didn't let up. We railly had more clearin'
and fences to make. His place in Alabama was pore and that was new ground.

"There was all toll nine children in my family. Ma was named Matty Piggy. Papa was named Ezra
Piggy. Moster Alexander Piggy's wife named Harriett. I knowed Ed, Charley, Bowls, Ells, and
Liza. That's all I ever knowd.

"I have done so many things. I run on a steamboat from Cairo to New Orleans--Kate Adams and
May F. Carter. They called me a Rouster--that means a working man. I run on a boat from Newport
to Memphis. Then I farmed, done track work on the railroad, and farmed some more.

"The young generation ain't got respect for old people and they tryin' to live without work.
I ain't got no fault to find with the times if I was bout forty years younger than I is now
I could work right ahead."

Interviewer: Bernice Bowden
Person interviewed: Ella Pittman
                    2409 West Eleventh Street, Pine Bluff, Arkansas
Age: 84

"Yes ma'm, I was born in slavery days. I tell you I never had no name. My old master named
me--Just called me 'Puss? and said I could name myself when I got big enough.

"My old master was named Mac Williams. But where I got free at was at Stricklands. Mac Williams'
daughter married a Strickland and she drawed me. She was tollable good to me but her husband wa'nt.

"In slavery times I cleaned up the house and worked in the house. I worked in the field a little
but she kept me busy in the house. I was busy night and day.

"No ma'm, I never did go to school--never did go to school.

"After I got grown I worked in the farm. When I wasn't farmin' I was doin' other kinds of work.
I used to cut and sew and knit and crochet. I stayed around the white folks so much they learned
me to do all kinds of work. I never did buy my children any stockins--I knit 'em myself.

"After old Master died old Miss hired us out to Ben Deans, but he was so cruel mama run away
and went back to old Miss. I know we stayed at Ben Deans till they was layin the crop by and
I think he whipped mama that morning so she run away.

"Yes ma'm, I sho do member bout the Klu Klux--sho do. They looked dreadful--nearly scare you
to death. The Klu Klux was bad, and the paddyrollers too.

"I can't think of nothin' much to tell you now but I know all about slavery. They used to build
'little hell', made something like a barbecue pit and when the niggers didn't do like they
wanted they'd lay him over that 'little hell'.

"I've done ever kind of work--maulin rails, clearin up new ground. They was just one kind of
work I didn't do and that was workin' with a grubbin' hoe. I tell you I just worked myself
to death till now I ain't able to do nothin'."

Interviewer's Comment

Ella Pittman's son, Almira Pittman was present when I interviewed his mother. He was born in
1884. He added this information to what Ella told me:

"She is the mother of nine children--three living. I use to hear mama tell about how they did
in slavery times. If she could hear good now she could map it out to you."

I asked him why he didn't teach his mother to read and write and he said, "Well, I tell you,
mama is high strung. She didn't have no real name till she went to Louisiana."

These people live in a well-furnished home. The living room had a rug, overstuffed furniture
and an organ. Ella was clean.

Interviewer: Mrs. Bernice Bowden
Person interviewed: Ella Pittman
                    2417 W. Eleventh Street, Pine Bluff, Arkansas
Age: 84
[TR: Appears to be same as last informant despite different address.]

"Here's one that lived then. I can remember fore the Civil War started. That was in the State
of North Carolina where I was bred and born in March 1853. Mac Williams, he was my first owner
and John Strickland was my last owner. That was durin' of the war. My white folks told me I
was thirteen when peace was declared. They told me in April if I make no mistake. That was
in North Carolina. I grewed up there and found my childun there. That is--seven of them. And
then I found two since I been down in here. I been in Arkansas about forty years.

"When the war come I heard em say they was after freein' the people.

"My mother worked in the field and old mistress kep' me in the house. She married a widow-man
and he had four childun and then she had one so there was plenty for me to do. Yes ma'm!

"I ain't never been to school a day in my life. They didn't try to send me after freedom. I
had a very, very bad, cruel stepfather and he sent all his childun to school but wouldn't send
me. I stayed there till I was grown. I sho did. Then I married. Been married just once. Never
had but that one man in my life. He was a very good man, too. Cose he was a poor man but he
was good to me.

"Yes ma'm, I sho did see the Ku Klux and the paddyrollers, too. They done em bad I tell you.

"I know they was a white man they called Old Man Ford. He dug a pit just like a barbecue pit,
and he would burn coals just like you was goin' to barbecue. Then he put sticks across the
top and when any of his niggers didn't do right, he laid em across that pit. I member they
called it Old Ford's Hell.

"I had a bad time fore freedom and a bad time after freedom till after I married. I'm doin'
tollably well now. I lives with my son and his wife and she treats me very well. I can't live
alone cause I'se subject to inagestin' and I takes sick right sudden.

"I'm just as thankful as I can be that I'm gettin' along as well as I is.

"I stayed in the North in Detroit one year. I liked it very well. I liked the white people
very well. They was so sociable. My son lives there and works for Henry Ford. My oldest son
stays in Indiana.

"It was so cold I come back down here. I'se gettin' old and I needs to be warm. Good-bye."

Interviewer: Samuel S. Taylor
Person interviewed: Sarah Pittman
                    1320 W. Twentieth Street, Little Rock, Arkansas
Age: About 82

"I never saw nothing between white folks and colored folks. My white folks were good to us.
My daddy's white folks were named Jordan--Jim Jordan--and my mama's folks were Jim Underwood.
And they were good. My mama's and father's folks both were good to the colored folks. As the
song goes, 'I can tell it everywhere I go.' And thank the Lord, I'm here to tell it too. I
raised children, grandchildren, and great-grandchildren you see there. That is my great-grandson
playing there. He is having the time of his life. I raised him right too. You see how good
he minds me. He better not do nothin' different. He's about two years old.

"I was born in Union Parish, Louisiana way up yonder in them hills, me and my folks, and they
come down here.

"Jim Jordan married one of the Taylor girls--Jim Taylor's daughter. The old folks gave mama
to them to do their housework. My father and mama didn't belong to the same masters. He died
the first year of the surrender. He was a wonderful man. He was a Jackson. On Saturday night
he would stay with us till Sunday. On Sunday night he would go home. He would play with us.
Now he and mama both are dead. They are gone home and I am waiting to go. They're waiting for
me in the kingdom there. As the song says, 'I am waiting on the promises of God.'

"My mama did housework in slave time. I don't know what my father did. In them days you done
some working from plantation to plantation. Them folks is all gone in now near about. Guess
mine will be the next time.

Early Childhood

"First thing I remember is staying at the house. We et at the white folks' house. We would
go there in the evening before sundown and git our supper. One time Jim Underwood made me mad.
Mama said something he didn't like. And he tied her thumbs together and tied them to a limb.
Her feet could touch the ground--they weren't off the ground. He said she could stay there
till she thought better of it.

"Before the surrender I didn't do nothing in the line of work 'cept 'tend to my mother's children.
I didn't do no work at all 'cept that. My white folks were good to me. All my folks 'cept me
are gone. My grandmas and uncles and things all settin' up yonder. All my children what is
dead, they're up yonder. I ain't got but three living, and they're on their way. Minnie and
Mamie and Annie, that is all I got. Mamie's the youngest and she's got grandchildren.

How Freedom Came

"The way we learned that freedom had come, my uncle come to the fence and told my mama we were
free and I went with her. Sure he'd been to the War. He come back with his budget. Don't you
know what a budget is? You ain't never been to war, have you? Well, you oughter know what a
budget is. That's a knapsack. It had a pocket on each side and a water can on each shoulder.
He come home with his budget on his back, and he come to the fence and told mama we was free
and I heered him.

Right After Freedom

"Right after freedom my mama and them stayed with the same people they had been with. The rest
of the people scattered wherever they wanted to But my uncle come there and got mama. They
moved back to the Taylors then where my grandma was. Wouldn't care if I had some of that good
old spring water now where my grandma lived!

"None of my people were ever bothered by the pateroles or the Ku Klux.

"We come to Arkansas because we had kinfolks down here. Just picked up and come on. I been
here a long time. I don't know how long, I don't keep up with nothing like that. When my husband
was living I just followed him. He said that this was a good place and we could make a good
living. So I just come on. When he died, those gravediggers dug his grave deep enough to put
another man on top of him. But that don't hurt him none. He's settin' in the kingdom. He was
a deacon in the church and his word went. The whole plantation would listen to him and do what
he said. Everybody respected him because he was right. I was just married once and no man can
take his place. He was the first one and the best one and the last one. He was heaven bound
and he went on there. I don't know just how long I was married. It is in the Bible. It is in
there in big letters. I can't get that right now. It's so big and heavy. But it's in there.
I think we left it in Detroit when I was there, and it ain't come back here yet. But I know
we lived together a long time.

"I remember the old slave-time songs but I can't think of them just now. 'Come to Jesus' is
one of them. 'Where shall I be when the first trumpet sounds?', that's another one. Another
one is: 'If I could, I surely would; Set on the rock where Moses stood--first verse or stanza.
All of my sins been taken away, taken away--chorus. Mary wept and Martha moaned, Mary's gone
to a world unknown--second verse or stanza. All of my sins are taken away, taken away--chorus."

"I don't think nothing 'bout these young folks. When they was turned loose a lot of them went
wild and the young folks followed their leaders. But mine followed me and my daddy.

"My grandmother had a big old bay horse and she was midwife for the white and the colored folks.
She would put her side saddle on the old horse and get up and go, bless her heart; and me and
my cousin had to stay there and take care of things. She's gone now. The Lord left me here
for some reason. And I'm enjoyin' it too. I have got my first cussin' to do. I don't like to
hear nobody cuss. I belong to the church. I belong to the Baptist church and I go to the Arch
Street Church."

Interviewer: Miss Irene Robertson Person interviewed: Mary Poe, Forrest City, Arkansas Age: 60

"My papa used to tell about two men he knowd stealing a hog. He was Wyatt Alexander. He was
feeding one evening and the master was out there too that evening. They overheard two colored
men inside the crib lot house. They was looking at the hogs. They planned to come back after
dark and get a hog. The way it turned out master dressed up ragged and got inside that night.
The first man come. They got a shoat and killed it, knocked it in the head. The master took
it on his back to the log cabin. When he knocked, his wife opened the door. She seen who it
was. She nearly fell out and when he seen who it was he run off. The master throwed the hog
down. They all got the hot water and went to work. He left a third there and took part to the
other man. He done gone to bed and he took a third on home. He said he wanted to see if they
needed meat or wanted to keep in stealing practice. He didn't want them to waste his big hog
meat neither. Said that man never come home for two weeks, 'fraid he'd get a whooping. No,
they said he never got a whooping but the meat was near by gone.

"Seem lack hog stealing was common in North Carolina in them days from the way he talked.

"Papa said he went down in the pasture one night to get a shoat. He said they had a fine big
drove. He got one knocked over an' was carrying it out across the fence to the field. He seen
another man. He couldn't see. It was dark. He throwed the hog over on him. The man took the
shoat on to his house and papa was afraid to say much about it. He said way 'long towards day
this man come bringing about half of that hog cleaned and ready to salt away. They got up and
packed it away out of sight.

"My mother was named Lucy Alexander, too."

Interviewer: Miss Irene Robertson
Person interviewed: W.L. Pollacks
                    Brinkley, Arkansas
Age: 68

"I was born in Shelby County Tennessee. My folks all come from Richmond, Virginia. They come
to Kentucky and then on to Tennessee. I am 68 years old. My father's master was Joe Rollacks
and Mrs. Chicky they called his wife. My mother's master was Joe Ricks and they all called
his wife Miss Fee. I guess it was Pheobe or Josephine but they never called her by them names.
Seemed like they was all kin folks. I heard my mother say she dress up in some of the white
folks dresses and hitch up the buggy, take dinner and carry two girls nearly grown out to church
and to big picnics. She liked that. The servants would set the table and help the white folks
plates at the table. Said they had a heap good eating. She had a plenty work to do but she
got to take the girls places where the parents didn't want to go. She said they didn't know
what to do wid freedom. She said it was like weening a child what never learned to eat yet.
I forgot what they did do. She said work was hard to find and money scarce. They find some
white folks feed em to do a little work. She said a nickle looked big as a dollar now. They
couldn't buy a little bit. They like never get nough money to buy a barrel of flour. It was
so high. Seem like she say I was walking when they got a barrel of flour. So many colored folks
died right after freedom. They caught consumption. My mother said they was exposed mo than
they been used to and mixing up in living quarters too much what caused it. My father voted
a Republican ticket. I ain't voted much since I come to Arkansas. I been here 32 years. My
farm failed over in Tennessee. I was out lookin' round for farmin' land, lookin' round for
good work. I farmed then I worked seven or eight years on the section, then I helped do brick
work till now I can't do but a mighty little. I had three children but they all dead. I got
sugar dibeates.

"The present times are tough on sick people. It is hard for me to get a living. I find the
young folks all for their own selves. If I was well I could get by easy. If a man is strong
he can get a little work along.

"The times and young generation both bout to run away wid themselves, and the rest of the folks
can't stop em 'pears to me like."

Interviewer: Miss Irene Robertson Person interviewed: "Doc" John Pope, Biscoe, Arkansas Age: 87

I am 87 years old for a fact. I was born in De Soto County, Mississippi, eight miles south
of Memphis, Tennessee. No I didn't serve in de War but my father Gus Pope did. He served in
de War three years and never came home. He served in 63rd Regiment Infantry of de Yankee army.
He died right at the surrender. I stayed on de farm till the surrender. We scattered around
den. My father was promised $300.00 bounty and 160 acres of land. Dey was promised dat by the
Constitution of the United States. Every soldier was promised dat. No he never got nary penny
nor nary acre of land. We ain't got nuthin. De masters down in Mississippi did help 'em where
they stayed on. I never stayed on. I left soon as de fightin was gone. I was roamin round in
Memphis and man asked me if I wanted to go to college. He sent a train load to Fitz (Fisk)
University. I stayed there till I graduated. I studied medicine generally. Sandy Odom, the
preacher at Brinkley, was there same time as I was. He show is old. He's up in ninety now.
He had a brother here till he died. He was a fine doctor. He got more practice around here
than any white doctor in this portion of de county. Fitz University was a fine college. It
was run by rich folks up north. I don't know how long I stayed there. It was a good while.
I went to Isaac Pope, my uncle. He was farming. Briscoe owned the Pope niggers at my first
recollection. He brought my uncle and a lot more over here where he owned a heap of dis land.
It was all woods. Dats how I come here.

After de Civil War? Dey had to "Root hog or die". From 1860-1870 the times was mighty hard.
People rode through the county and killed both white and black. De carpet bagger was bout as
bad as de Ku Kluck.

I came here I said wid John Briscoe. They all called him Jack Briscoe, in 1881. I been here
ever since cept W.T. Edmonds and P.H. Conn sent me back home to get hands. I wrote 'em how
many I had. They wired tickets to Memphis. I fetched 52 families back. I been farmin and practicin
all my life put near.

I show do vote. I voted the last time for President Hoover. The first time I voted was at the
General Grant election. I am a Republican, because it is handed down to me. That's the party
of my race. I ain't going to change. That's my party till I dies. We has our leader what instructs
us how to vote.

Dey say dey goiner pay 60 cents a hundred but I ain't able to pick no cotton. No I don't get
no help from de relief. I think the pore class of folks in a mighty bad fix. Is what I think.
The nigger is hard hit and the pore trash dey call 'em is too. I don't know what de cause is.
It's been jess this way ever since I can recollect. No times show ain't one bit better. I owns
dis house and dats all. I got one daughter.

I went to Fitz (Fisk) University in 1872. The folks I told you about was there then too. Their
names was Dr. E.B. Odom of Biscoe and his brother Sandy Odom. He preaches at Brinkley now.
Doc Odom is dead. He served on the Biscoe School Board a long time wid two white men.

I don't know much about the young generation. They done got too smart for me to advise. The
young ones is gettin fine educations but it ain't doin 'em no good. Some go north and cook.
It don't do the balance of 'em no good. If they got education they don't lack de farm. De sun
too hot. No times ain't no better an de nigger ain't no better off en he used to be. A little
salary dun run 'em wild.

Interviewer: Mrs. Bernice Bowden
Person interviewed: William Porter
                    1818 Louisiana Street, Pine Bluff, Arkansas
Age: 81
Occupation: Janitor of church

"Yes'm I lived in slavery times. I was born in 1856. I was borned in Tennessee but the most
of my life has been in Arkansas.

"I remember when Hood's raid was. That was the last fight of the war. I recollect seein' the
soldiers marchin' night and day for two days. I saw the cavalry men and the infant men walking.
I heard em say the North was fightin' the South. They called the North Yankees and the South
Rebels.

"Some of the Tennessee niggers was called free niggers. There was a colored man in Pulaski,
Tennessee who owned slaves.

"My father was workin' to buy his freedom and had just one more year to work when peace come.
His master gave him a chance to buy his freedom. He worked for old master in the daytime and
at night he worked for himself. He split rails and raised watermelons.

"My father's master was named Tom Gray at that time. Considering the times he was a very fair man.

"When the war broke up I was workin' around a barber shop in Nashville, Tennessee.

"The Queen of England offered to buy the slaves and raise them till they were grown, then give
them a horse, a plow and so many acres of ground but the South wouldn't accept this offer.

"It was the rule of the South to keep the people as ignorant as possible, but my mother had
a little advantage over some. The white children learned her to read and write, and when freedom
came she could write her name and even scribble out a letter. She gave me my first lesson,
and I started to school in '67. The North sent teachers down here after the war. They were
government schools.

"I was pretty apt in figgers--studied Bay's Arithmetic through the third book. I was getting
along in school, but I slipped away from my people and was goin' to get a pocket full of money
and then go back. First man I worked for was a colored man and I kept his books for him and
was to get one-fourth of the crop. The first year he settled with me I had $165 clear after
I paid all my debts. I done very well. I farmed one more year, then I come to Pine Bluff and
did government work along the Arkansas River.

"I've done carpenter work and concrete work. I learned it by doing it. I followed concrete
work for a long time. I've hoped to build several houses here in Pine Bluff and a lot of these
streets.

"I have a brother and sister who graduated from Fisk University.

"I think one thing about the younger generation is they need to be more educated in the way
of manners and to have race pride and to be subject to the laws."

Interviewer: Thomas Elmore Lacy Person interviewed: Bob Potter, Russellville, Arkansas Age: 65

"Sure, you oughter remember me--Bob Potter. Used to know you when you was a boy passin' de
house every day go in' down to de old Democrat printin' office. Knowed yo' brother and all
yo' folks. Knowed yo' pappy mighty well. Is yo' ma and pa livin' now? No suh, I reckin not.

"I was born de seventeenth of September, 1873 right here in Russellville. Daddy's name was
Dick, and mudder's was Ann Potter. Daddy died before I was born, and I never seed him. Mudder's
been dead about eighteen years. Dey master was named Hale, and he lived up around Dover somewheres
on his farm, but I dunno how dey come by de name Potter. Well, now, lemme see--oh, yes, dey
was freed at Dover after dey come dere from North Ca'liny. I think my ma was born in West Virginia,
and den dey went to North Ca'liny and den to South Ca'liny, and den come to Arkansas.

"I raised seven boys and lost five chillen. Dere was three girls and nine boys. All dat's livin'
is here except one in Fresno, California. My old woman here, she tells fortunes for de white
folks and belongs to de Holiness church but I don't belong to none; I let her look after de
religion for de fambly." (Interjection from Mrs. Potter: "Yes suh, you bet I belongs to de
Holiness chu'ch. You got to walk in de light to be saved, and if you do walk in de light you
can't sin. I been saved for a good many yeahs and am goin' on in de faith. Praise de Lawd!")

"My mudder was sold once for a hundud dollahs and once ag'in for thirty-eight hundud dollahs.
Perhaps dis was jist before dey left West Virginia and was shipped to North Ca'liny. De master
put her upon a box, she said, made her jump up and pop her heels together three times and den
turn around and pop her heels again to show how strong she was. She sure was strong and a hard
worker. She could cut wood, tote logs, plow, hoe cotton, and do ever'thing on de place, and
lived to be about ninety-five yeahs old. Yas suh, she was as old or older dan Aunt Joan is
when she died.

"No suh, I used to vote but I quit votin', for votin' never did git me nothin'; I quit two
yeahs ago. You see, my politics didn't suit em. Maybe I shouldn't be tellin' you but I was
a Socialist, and I was runnin' a mine and wo'kin' fifteen men, and dey was all Socialists,
and de Republicans and Democrats sure put me out of business--dey put me to de bad.

"Dat was about twelve yeahs ago when I run de mine. I been tryin' to git me a pension but maybe
dat's one reason I can't git it. Oh yes, I owns my home--dat is, I did own it, but----

"Oh Lawd, yes, I knows a lot of dem old songs like 'Let Our Light Shine,' and 'De Good Old
Gospel Way,' and 'Hark From de Tomb.' Listen, you oughter hear Elder Beam sing dat one. He's
de pastor of de Baptis' Chu'ch at Fort Smith. He can sure make it ring!

"De young folks of today compa'ed to dem when we was boys? Huh! You jist can't compaih em--can't
be done. Why, a fo'-yeah-old young'un knows mo' today dan our grandmammies knowed. And in dem
days de boys and gals could go out and play and swing togedder and behave deyselves. We went
in our shu'ttails and hit was all right; we had two shu'ts to weah--one for every day and one
for Sunday--and went in our shu'ttails both every day and Sunday and was respected. And if
you didn't behave you sure got whupped. Dey didn't put dey arms around you and hug you and
den put you off to sleep. Dey whupped you, and it was real whuppin'.

"Used to hear my mudder talk about de Ku Klux Klan puttin' cotton between her toes and whuppin'
her, and dat's de way dey done us young'uns when we didn't behave. And we used to have manners
den, both whites and blacks. I wish times was like dem days, but dey's gone.

"Yes, we used to have our tasks to do befo' goin' to bed. We'd have a little basket of cotton
and had to pick de seeds all out of dat cotton befo' we went to bed. And we could all ca'd
and spin--yes suh--make dat old spinnin' wheel go Z-z-z-z as you walked back and fo'f a-drawin'
out de spool of ya'n. And you could weave cloth and make all yo' own britches, too. (Here his
wife interpolated a homely illustration of the movement of "de shettle" in the loom weaving--ed.)

"Yes, I mind my mudder tellin' many a time about dem Klan-men, and how dey whupped white women
to make em give up de money dey had hid, and how dey used to burn dey feet. Yes suh, ain't
no times like dem old days, and I wish we had times like em now. Yes suh, I'll sure come to
see you in town one of dese days. Good mornin'."

NOTE: Bob Potter is a most interesting Negro character--one of the most genial personalities
of the Old South that the interviewer has met anywhere. His humor is infectious, his voice
boisterous, but delightful, and his uproarious laugh just such as one delights to listen to.
And his narrations seem to ring with veracity.

Interviewer: Mrs. Bernice Bowden
Person interviewed: Louise Prayer
                    3401 Short West Third, Pine Bluff, Arkansas
Age: 80

"I can member seein' the Yankees. My mother died when I was a baby and my grandmother raised
me. I'se goin' on eighty.

"When the Yankees come we piled boxes and trunks in front of the doors and windows. She'd say,
'You chillun get in the house; the Yankees are comin'.' I didn't know what 'twas about--I sure
didn't.

"I'm honest in mind. You know the Yankees used to come in and whip the folks. I know they come
in and whipped my grandma and when they come in we chillun went under the bed. Didn't know
no better. Why did they whip her? Oh my God, I don't know bout dat. You know when we chillun
saw em ridin' in a hurry we went in the house and under the bed. I specks they'd a killed me
if they come up to me cause they'd a scared me to death.

"We lived on the Williams' place. All belonged to the same people. They give us plenty to eat
such as 'twas. But in them days they fed the chillun mostly on bread and syrup. Sometimes we
had greens and dumplin's. Jus' scald some meal and roll up in a ball and drop in with the greens.
Just a very few chickens we had. I don't love chicken though. If I can jus' get the liver I'm
through with the chicken.

"When I got big enough my grandmother had me in the field. I went to school a little bit but
I didn't learn nothin'. Didn't go long enough. That I didn't cause the old man had us in the field.

"If we chillun in them days had had the sense these got now, I could remember more bout things.

"I was a young missy when I married.

"I told you the best I could--that's all I know. I been treated pretty good."