During his two years in the Lower Fifth Mansell never once spent more than five minutes learning
his "rep," yet on no occasion did he get less than twelve out of twenty. A bare outline was
required, a loud voice supplied the rest.

In this form it was that Gordon first began to crib. He did not do it to get marks. He merely
wished to avoid being "bottled." Some headmasters, and the writers to The Boy's Own Paper,
draw lurid pictures of the bully who by cribbing steals the prize from the poor innocent who
looks up every word in a big Liddell and Scott; but such people don't exist. No one ever cribbed
in order to get a prize: they crib from mere slackness. Mansell's exam. prize in IV. A is about
the only instance of a prize won by cribbing. Besides, cribbing is an art.

Ruddock, for instance, when he used to go on to translate, was accustomed to take up his Vergil
in one hand and his Bohn in the other.

"What is that other book, Ruddock?" Claremont asked once.

"Some notes, sir," was the perfectly truthful answer.

Ruddock was, moreover, an altruist; he always worked for the good of his fellow-men. One day,
when Mansell was bungling most abominably with his Euripides, he flung his Bohn along the desk,
Mansell picked it up, propped it in front of him and read it off. Claremont never noticed.
This was the start of a great system of combination. Everyone at the beginning of the term
paid twopence to the general account with which Ruddock bought some Short Steps to Accurate
Translations. As each person went on to translate, the book was passed to him and he read straight
out of it. The translating was, in consequence, always of a remarkably high standard. Claremont
never understood why examinations always proved the signal for a general collapse. History,
however, was a subject that had long been a worry to the form. Dates are irrevocable facts
and cannot be altered, they must be learnt. At one time, when Claremont said, "Shut your book.
I will ask a few questions," everyone shut their Latin grammars loudly and kept their history
books open; but this was rather too obvious a ruse; Claremont began to spot it. Something had
to be done. It would be an insult to expect any member of the form to prepare a lesson. It
was Gordon who finally devised a plan.

"Please, sir," he said one day, "don't you think we should find history much more interesting
if we could bring in maps."

"Well, perhaps it would," said Claremont sleepily. "I am sure the form is very much indebted
to you for your kind thought. Anyone who wants to, may bring in a map."

Next day everyone had found a huge atlas which he propped up on the desk; and which completely
hid everything except the student's actual head. There was now no fear of an open book being
spotted, it was so very simple to shut it when Claremont began to walk about, and besides ...
it made the lesson so much more interesting.

And so Gordon and Mansell were able to discuss football the whole of evening hall, never do
a stroke of work, and yet get quite a respectable half-term report.

The interest in the Thirds was now becoming intense. As was expected, Buller's easily beat
all the outhouses, with Claremont's house as runners-up. Claremont's house had once been the
great athletic house, but when a house master takes but little interest in a house's performances,
that house is apt to get stale, and soon Claremont's became a name for mediocrity. As a house
it was like V. B, a happy land where no one worried about anything, and it was quite safe to
smoke in the studies on a Sunday afternoon. A side made up of two houses that had never played
together before was bound to lack the combination of a side that had played together for several
weeks. But the School House was always playing against superior weight and strength, and more
than once had found itself unable to sustain their efforts, and after leading up to half-time
went clean to pieces in the last ten minutes. It is pretty hard to hold a "grovel" several
stones heavier for over an hour, and this year even Armour was a little doubtful about the
lightness of his side. To Gordon and Jeffries, of course, defeat seemed impossible. Last year
Jeffries had played in a winning side and Gordon had yet to see the House lose a match. But
Mansell smiled sadly; he had played in a good many losing sides. Gordon dreamed football night
and day. He saw himself securing wonderful last-minute tries, and bringing off amazing collars
when all seemed lost. But all his hopes were doomed to disappointment. Two days before the
game he slipped coming downstairs, fell with his wrist under him, and with his arm in splints
and sling had to watch from the touch-line an outhouse victory of ten points to nothing. The
usual thing happened--the House was just not strong enough. Jeffries played a great game, and
fought an uphill fight splendidly; Lovelace only missed a drop goal by inches; Fletcher, an
undisciplined forward, did great damage till warned by the referee. But weight told, and during
the whole of the last half the House were penned in their twenty-five, while the school got
over twice. Very miserably the House sat down to tea that evening. It added insult to injury
when an impertinent fag from Buller's walked in in the middle and demanded the cup. Armour
managed to keep his temper, but that fag did not forget for weeks the booting Gordon gave him
the next day. Still it was a poor revenge for a lost cup.

Whatever little chance there had ever been of Gordon getting a place in the Two Cock was, of
course, quite destroyed by his accident. The doctor said he ought not to play again for at
least three weeks. And so it was that, as far as football was concerned, Gordon found himself
rather out of it. All his friends were in the thick of everything. Mansell was captain of the
Two Cock, Jeffries was leading the scrum, Hunter was being tried as scrum half, and Lovelace
was in training as a reserve. He alone was doing nothing. For a few days the afternoons seemed
unbearably long. But Gordon had a remarkable gift for adapting himself to circumstances. And
he had very little difficulty in striking up new acquaintances. So far, he had had very little
to do with those outside his actual set; with the majority of the House he was hardly on speaking
terms, and of Archie Fletcher he knew little except the name.

Archie Fletcher was a great person; "great" in fact was the only adjective that really fitted
him. He had only two real objects in life, one was to get his House cap, the other was to enjoy
himself. And his love of pleasure usually took the form of ragging masters. Ragging with him
did not consist in mere spasmodic episodes of bravado which usually ended in a beating. He
had reduced it to a science. It was to him the supreme art. At present he was suffering from
a kick on the knee which he had received in the Thirds, and he and Gordon found themselves
constantly thrown together.

Archie (no one ever called him anything else), was a splendid companion. He had an enormous
repertoire of anecdotes which he was never tired of telling, and every one finished in exactly
the same way: "Believe me, Caruthers, some rag." Oh, a great man, forsooth, was Archie! He
had cynically examined every master with whom he had anything to do, picked him to pieces,
found out his faults, and then played on his weaknesses. Sometimes, however, he went a little
too far. On one occasion he was doing chemistry with a certain Jenks, a very fiery little man,
who really believed in the educational value of "stinks." So did Archie; it gave him scope
to exercise his genius for playing the fool. But this day he overstepped the bounds. In the
distance, he saw Blake, his pet aversion, carefully working out an experiment. A piece of glass
tubing was at hand; Jenks was not looking; Archie fixed the tube to the waterspout, turned
the tap; a cascade of H{2}O rose in the air and fell on Blake's apparatus; there was a crash
of falling glass. Jenks spun round.

"Oh, is that you, Fletcher, you stupid fellow? Come over here. I shall have to beat you. Now
then, where's my cane gone! Oh, then I shall have to use some rubber tubing--stoop down, stoop
down!"

Laboriously Archie bent down; Jenks bent a piece of india-rubber tubing double--its length
was hardly a foot--and gave Archie a feeble blow. It could not possibly have hurt him. But
the victim leapt in the air, clutching the seat of his trousers.

"Oh!" he screamed. "Oh, sir, oh, sir! You have hurt me, sir. You are so strong, sir."

"Oh, then you are coward, too, are you?" said the delighted Jenks. "Stoop down again; stoop down!"

The form rocked with laughter.

Archie received four strokes in all, and after each he went through the same performance. Jenks
thought himself a second Hercules; he repeated the story in the common room. Archie repeated
it also, in the studies: "Believe me, you fellows, some rag!"

A great man, and after Gordon's own heart!

On a bleak, rainy afternoon Gordon and Fletcher watched the overwhelming defeat of the House
in the Two Cock. The score was over thirty points; Mansell played only moderately; Jeffries
was off his game. A gloom settled down over the House, everyone became peevish and discontented.
It was said that the great days of House footer were over. To lose both the Thirds and the
Two Cock was a disgrace. No one expected anything but a rout in the Three Cock. There were
bets in the day-room as to whether the score would be under fifty. Interest centred entirely
on who would get their House caps. With Lovelace away, the three-quarter line would be innocuous:
the forwards always had been weak. The House were bad losers, they had grown accustomed to
victories.

CHAPTER V: EMERGING

"Jeffries was pretty hot stuff to-day, wasn't he?"

"Good Lord! yes. If he plays half as well as that in the Three Cock he'll get his House cap."

It was just after tea. Mansell was lying back in an easy-chair with his feet on the table;
he was dead tired after a strenuous game. Gordon was sitting on the table. Hunter reclined
in the window seat.

"Where is he, by the way?" said Gordon. "I didn't see him in to tea."

"Oh, I believe someone asked him out. Isn't he rather a pal of the Jacobs in Cheap Street?"

"I heard that there was a bit of a row on," said Hunter. "I couldn't quite make out what about....
Oh, by Jove, that's him."

Jeffries' voice was heard down the passage: "Mansell."

A voice answered him: "Here, No. 34."

Jeffries was heard running upstairs; he entered looking very dejected.

"Hullo! Cheer up!" shouted Mansell. "I shouldn't have thought you could have run like that
after this afternoon's game. Where've you been?"

"I say ... I'm in the deuce of a row."

There was a shriek of laughter. Jeffries was always in a row; and he always exaggerated its
importance.

"Don't laugh. It's no damned joke. I've got bunked."

Silence suddenly fell on the group.

"But ... what the hell have you been doing?"

"Chief's found out all about me and Fitzroy, and I've got to go!"

"But I never thought there was really anything in that," said Gordon. "I thought----"

"Oh, well, there was. I know I'm an awful swine and all that----Oh, it's pretty damnable; and
the Three Cock, too! I believe I should have got my House cap!... I wasn't so dusty to-day--and
I heard Armour say, as he came off the field----Damn, what the bloody hell does it matter what
Armour said? It's over now. I just got across for a minute to see you men.... I said I wanted
a book.... Lord, I can't believe it...."

When he stopped speaking there was again a dead silence. None of the three had been brought
face to face with such a tragedy before. Never, Gordon thought, had the Greek idea of Nemesis
seemed so strong.

Hunter broke the silence.

"What are you going to do now?"

"I don't know. I shall go home, and then, I suppose, I shall have to go to France or Germany,
or perhaps some crammer. I don't know or care ... it's bound to be pretty rotten...."

He half smiled.

"My God, and it's damned unfair," Mansell said suddenly. "There are jolly few of us here any
better than you, and look at the bloods, every one of them as fast as the devil, and you have
to go just because----Oh, it's damned unfair."

Then Jeffries' wild anger, the anger that had made him so brilliant an athlete, burst out:
"Unfair? Yes, that's the right word; it is unfair. Who made me what I am but Fernhurst? Two
years ago I came here as innocent as Caruthers there; never knew anything. Fernhurst taught
me everything; Fernhurst made me worship games, and think that they alone mattered, and everything
else could go to the deuce. I heard men say about bloods whose lives were an open scandal,
'Oh, it's all right, they can play football.' I thought it was all right too. Fernhurst made
me think it was. And now Fernhurst, that has made me what I am, turns round and says, 'You
are not fit to be a member of this great school!' and I have to go. Oh, it's fair, isn't it?"

He dropped exhausted into a chair. After a pause he went on:

"Oh, well, it's no use grousing. I suppose if one hits length balls on the middle stump over
square leg's head one must run the risk of being bowled; and I didn't believe in sticking in
and doing nothing. 'Get on or get out,' and, well, I've got out." He laughed rather hysterically.

Again silence.

Slowly Jeffries got up.

"Well, good-bye, you men." He shook hands. As he opened the door he paused for a second, laughed
to himself: "Oh, it's funny, bloody funny," he murmured. "Not fit for Fernhurst.... Bloody
funny." He laughed again, bitterly. The door closed slowly.

Jeffries' footsteps could be heard on the stairs. They grew fainter; the door leading to the
Chief's side of the House slammed. Down the study passage a gramophone struck up Florrie was
a Flapper.

In Study 34 there was an awful stillness.

That evening on the way down to supper Gordon overheard Armour say to Meredith:

"What a fool that man Jeffries is, getting bunked, and mucking up the grovel. Damned ass, the
man is."

Meredith agreed.

Gordon didn't care very much just now about the result of a House match. He had lost a friend.
Armour had lost a cog in a machine.

       *       *       *       *       *

As was expected, the Three Cock proved a terribly one-sided game. The House played pluckily,
and for the first half kept the score down to eight points; but during the last twenty minutes
it was quite impossible to keep out the strong outhouse combination. The side became demoralised,
and went absolutely to pieces. Armour did not give a single House cap.

After the Three Cock there was a period of four weeks during which the best athletes trained
for the sports, while the rest of the school played hockey. It was generally considered a sort
of holiday after the stress of house matches. Usually it served its purpose well, but for the
welfare of the House this year it was utterly disastrous. The whole house was in a highly strung,
discontented state; it had nothing to work for; it had only failures to look back upon. The
result was a general opposition to authority. For a week or so there was a continuous row going
on in the studies. Window-frames were broken; chairs were smashed; nearly every day one or
other member of the House was hauled before the Chief, for trouble of some sort. But things
did not reach a real head till one night in hall, just before Palm Sunday. There was a lecture
for the Sixth Form; Armour was taking hall; and the only prefect in the studies was Sandham,
who had a headache and had got leave off the lecture. It did not take long for the good news
to spread round the studies that only "the Cockroach" was about.

The first sign of trouble was a continual sound of opening doors. Archie was rushing round,
stirring up strife; then there came a sound of many voices from the entrance of the studies,
where were the fire hose and the gas meter. Suddenly the gas was turned out throughout the
whole building, and pandemonium broke out.

It would be impossible to describe the tumult made by a whole house that was inspired by only
one idea: the desire to make a noise. The voice of Sandham rose in a high-pitched wail over
and again above the uproar; but it was pitch dark, he could see none of the offenders. Then
all at once there was peace again, the lights went up, and everyone was quietly working in
his study. It had been admirably worked out. Archie was "some" organiser.

For the time being the matter ended; but in a day or two rumours of the rebellion had reached
Clarke. Strong steps had to be taken; and Clarke was not the man to shirk his duty.

That evening after prayers he got up and addressed the House.

"I have been told that two nights ago, when I was absent, there was a most unseemly uproar
in the studies. I am not going into details; you all know quite well what I mean. I want anyone
who assisted in the disturbance to stand up."

There was not a move. The idea that the Public School boy's code of honour forces him to own
up at once is entirely erroneous. Boys only own up when they are bound to be found out; they
are not quixotic.

"Well, then, as no one has spoken, I shall have to take forcible measures. Everyone above IV.
A (for the Lower School did their preparation in the day-room) will do me a hundred lines every
day till the end of the term. Thank you."

That night there was loud cursing. Clarke had hardly a supporter, the other prefects, with
the exception of Ferguson, who did not count for much in the way of things, agreed with Meredith,
who said:

"If the Cockroach can't keep order, how can Clarke expect there should be absolute quiet? It's
the Chief's fault for making such prefects. Damned silly, I call it."

The term did not end without a further row. There had been from time immemorial a system by
which corps clothes were common property. Everyone flung them in the middle of the room on
Tuesday after parade; the matron sorted them out after a fashion; but most people on the next
Tuesday afternoon found themselves with two tunics and no trousers, or two hats and only one
puttee. But no one cared. The person who had two tunics flung one in the middle of the floor,
and then went in search of some spare trousers. Everyone was clothed somehow in the end. There
was always enough clothes to go round. There was bound to be at least ten people who had got
leave off. It was a convenient socialism.

But one day FitzMorris turned up on parade in a pair of footer shorts, a straw hat, and a First
Eleven blazer. He was a bit of a nut, and finding his clothes gone, went on strangely garbed,
merely out of curiosity to see what would happen. A good deal did happen.

As soon as the corps was dismissed there was a clothes inspection. And the garments of FitzMorris
were found distributed on various bodies. Clarke again addressed the House. Anyone in future
discovered wearing anyone else's clothes would be severely dealt with. But the House was not
to be outdone. Every single name was erased from every single piece of clothing: identification
was impossible. FitzMorris turned up at the next parade with one puttee missing, and a tunic
that could not meet across his chest. There was another inspection, but this time it revealed
nothing. Everyone swore that he was wearing his own clothes; there was nothing to prove that
he was not. For the time Clarke was discomfited.

FitzMorris set out on his Easter holidays contented with himself and the world, in the firm
belief that he had thoroughly squashed that blighter Clarke. The head of the House returned
to his lonely home on the moors, very thoughtful--the next term would be his last.

On the first Sunday of the summer term the Chief preached a sermon the effect of which Gordon
never forgot. He was speaking on the subject of memory and remorse. "It may be in a few months,"
he said, "it may be not for three or four years; but at any rate before very long, you will
each one of you have to stand on the threshold of life, and looking back you will have to decide
whether you have made the best of your Fernhurst days. For a few moments I ask you to imagine
that it is your last day at school. How will it feel if you have to look back and think only
of shattered hopes, of bright unfulfilled promises? Your last day is bound to be one of infinite
pathos. But to the pathos of human sorrow there is no need to add the pathos of failure. Oh,
I know you are many of you saying to yourselves: 'There is heaps of time. We'll enjoy ourselves
while we have the chance. It is not for so very long!' No, you are right there: it is not for
so very long; it is only a few hours before you will have to weigh in the balance the good
and the bad you have done during your Fernhurst days. For some of you it will be in a few weeks;
but for the youngest of you it cannot be more than a very few years. Let me beg each of you
..." The sermon followed on traditional lines.

Almost subconsciously Gordon rose with the others to sing: Lord, behold us with Thy Blessing....
What would it feel like to him if this were his last Sunday, and he had to own that his school
career were a failure? He sat quite quiet in his study thinking for a long time afterwards.
He had a study alone this term.

In the big study that it has ever been the privilege of the head of the House to own, Clarke
also sat very silent. He was nerving himself for a great struggle.

       *       *       *       *       *

To the average individual the summer term is anything but the heaven it is usually imagined
to be. The footer man hates it; the fag has to field all day on a house game and always goes
in last; there is early school; in some houses there are no hot baths. On the first day the
studies are loud with murmurs of:

"Oh! this rotten summer term."

"No spare time and cricket."

"Awful!"

For Fernhurst was primarily a footer school. Buller had captained England and had infused much
of his own enthusiasm into his Fifteens; but the cricket coach, a Somerset professional, lacked
"the Bull's" personality and force, and so for the last few years the doings of the Eleven
had been slight and unmeritable. Even Lovelace major had been unable to carry a whole side
on his shoulders. As soon as he was out the school ceased to take any interest in the game.
Fernhurst batting was of the stolid, lifeless type, and showed an almost mechanical subservience
to the bowling.

But for Gordon this term was sheer joy. He loved cricket passionately--last season at his preparatory
school he had headed the batting averages, and kept wicket with a certain measure of success.
As a bat he was reckless in the extreme; time after time he flung away his wicket, trying to
cut straight balls past point; he was the despair of anyone who tried to coach him; but he
managed to get runs.

For cricket the School House was divided into A-K and L-Z, according to which division the
names of the boys fell into. Meredith was captain of the House and of L-Z, while FitzMorris
captained A-K. For the first half of the term there were Junior House Single-Innings matches
played in the American method, and afterwards came the Two-Innings Senior matches on the knock-out
system. A-K Junior this year had quite a decent side. Foster was not at all a bad slow bowler,
and was known to have made runs. Collins had a useful but unorthodox shot which he applied
to every ball, no matter where it pitched, and which landed the ball either over shortslip's
head or over the long-on boundary. In the nets it was a hideous performance, but in Junior
House matches, where runs are the one consideration it was extremely useful. A certain Betteridge
captained the side, not because of any personal attainments, but because he was on the V. A
table, and had played in Junior House matches with consistent results for three years. He went
in tenth and sometimes bowled.

These matches began at once, as Stewart, the captain of the Eleven, was anxious to spot useful
men for the Colts, the under sixteen side, who wore white caps with a blue dragon worked on
them. And so on the second Saturday of the term A-K drew Buller's in the first round. Before
the game FitzMorris had the whole side in his study to fix the positions in the field. Some
of the side had played little serious cricket before. Brown, in fact, asked if he might field
middle and leg. But at last they were placed more or less to their own satisfaction, and FitzMorris
gave them a short "jaw" on keenness. Cricket was about the one thing he really cared for; as
a chemistry specialist he spent most of his day adoze in the laboratory. It was only in the
cricket field that he really woke up.

With great solemnity Betteridge walked forward to toss with Felsted, the Buller's captain.
A few seconds later he returned to announce that Buller's had won the toss and put them in.
The captain of a Junior House side is always very fond of putting the other side in first.
P.F. Warner would demand rain overnight, a drying ground, a fast wind and a baking sun before
he would dare do such a thing. But Felsted was made of sterner stuff.

Gordon was sent in first with Collins. The idea was to try and knock the bowlers off their
length early. Gordon was very nervous. "The Bull" was umpire at one end and FitzMorris at the
other. Meredith had strolled over to watch, as L-Z had drawn a bye. Mansell was in the Pavilion
eating an ice. All eyes seemed on him. He had made Collins take the first ball. The start was
worthy of the best School House traditions. The first ball was well outside the off-stump;
it landed in the National School grounds that ran alongside of the school field. A howl of
untuneful applause went up. This was the cricket anyone could appreciate, and this was the
cricket that was always seen on a School House game. Its only drawback was that could not last.
Collins made a few more daring strokes. In the second over he made a superb drive over shortslip's
head to the boundary, and his next shot nearly ended FitzMorris' somnolent existence. It was
great while it lasted, but, like all great things, it came to an end. He gave the simplest
of chances to cover point, and Buller's rarely missed their catches.

It was so with nearly all the other members of the side. Three or four terrific hits and then
back under the trees again. Gordon alone seemed at all comfortable. Either the novelty of the
surroundings (it was only his second innings at Fernhurst), or else the presence of "the Bull,"
quieted his customary recklessness. At any rate, he attempted no leg-glides on the off-stump,
and in consequence found little difficulty in staying in. The boundaries, as was natural on
a side ground, were quite close. Runs came quite easily. During the interval after Foster's
dismissal "the Bull" walked across to him:

"How old are you, Caruthers?"

"Thirteen and a half, sir."

"Oh, good thing to come young. I did myself. Keep that left foot well across and you'll stop
in all day. Well done. Stick to it."

Gordon was amazingly bucked up. He had always heard "the Bull" was anti-School House, and here
he was encouraging one of his enemies. What rot fellows did talk. Splendid man "the Bull"!
He would tell Mansell so that night.

And his opinion was even more strengthened when, after he had been clean bowled for forty-three
without a chance, "the Bull" stopped him on the way out and said:

"Well done, Caruthers! Plucky knock. Go and have a tea at the tuck-shop, and put it down to
my account."

The School House innings closed for one hundred and forty-eight. "Nothing like big enough,"
said Foster.

FitzMorris overheard him.

"Rot! Absolute rot! If you go on the field in that spirit you won't get a single man out. Go
in and win."

And a very fine fight the House put up. Foster bowled splendidly, Betteridge was fast asleep
at point and brought off a marvellous one-handed catch, while Gordon stumped Felsted in his
third over. After an hour's play seven men were out for about ninety. The scorers were at variance,
so the exact score could not be discovered. There seemed a reasonable chance of winning. And
to his dying day Gordon will maintain that they would have won but for that silly ass of an
umpire, FitzMorris. Bridges, the Buller's wicket-keep, was run out by yards; there was no doubt
about it. Everyone saw it. But long hours at the laboratory had made it very hard for FitzMorris
to concentrate his brain on anything for a long time; he was happily dreaming, let us hope,
of carbon bisulphate, when the roar, "How's that?" woke him up. He had to give the man "not
out"; there was nothing else to do. Twenty minutes later, with a scandalous scythe-stroke,
Bridges made the winning hit.

"Never mind, your men put up a good fight; the luck was all on our side," said "the Bull" to
Caruthers. "Let's see, it's Sunday to-morrow, isn't it? Well, on Monday, then, come round to
the nets; you want to practise getting that left foot across. Look here, just get your bat
and I'll toss you up one or two now at the nets!"

That night "the Bull," talking over the game with his side in the dormitories, said: "That
Caruthers, you know, he's a good man; sort of fellow we want in the school. Can fight an uphill
game. Got grit. He'll make a lot of runs for the school some day."

On Monday Gordon saw his name down for nets with the Colts Eleven. Life was good just then.
If only Jeffries were there too....

CHAPTER VI: CLARKE

"Ferguson, the House is getting jolly slack; something's got to be done."

Ferguson sat up in his chair. Clarke had been quiet nearly the whole of hall; there was obviously
something up.

"Oh, I don't know. Why, only a quarter of an hour ago I came across Collins and Brown playing
stump cricket in the cloisters instead of studying Thucydides. That's what I call keenness."

"What did you say to them?"

"Oh, I've forgotten now, but it was something rather brilliant. I know it was quite lost on
them. The Shell can't appreciate epigram. They ought to read more Wilde. Great book Intentions.
Ever read it, Clarke?

"Oh, confound your Wildes and Shaws; that's just what I object to. Here are these kids, who
ought to be working, simply wasting their time, thinking of nothing but games. Why, I was up
in the House tutor's room last night and was glancing down the list of form orders. Over half
the House was in double figures."

"But, my good man, why worry? As long as the lads keep quiet in hall, and leave us in peace,
what does it matter? Peace at any price, that's what I say; we get so little of it in this
world, let us hang on to the little we have got."

"But look what a name the House will get."

"The House will get much the same reputation in the school as England has in Europe. The English
as a whole are pleasure-loving and slack. They worship games; and, after all, the Englishman
is a jolly sight better fellow than the average German or Frenchman."

"Yes, of course he's a better fellow, but the rotten thing is that he might be a much better
fellow still. If as a country we had only ourselves to think about, let us put up a god of
sport. But we have not. We have to compete with the other nations of the world. And late cuts
are precious little use in commerce. This athleticism is ruining the country. At any rate,
I am not going to have it in the House. In hall they've got to work; and if their places in
form aren't better next week there's going to be trouble."

"Yes there'll most certainly be trouble. I can't think why you won't leave well alone. Lord
Henry Wootton used to say----"

But Clarke was paying no attention.

That evening he got up after prayers to address the House.

"Will nothing stop this fellow's love of oratory?" murmured Betteridge.

"I have to speak to the House on a subject which I consider important," began Clarke. ("Which
probably means that it's most damnable nonsense," whispered Mansell.) "The position of the
members of the House in form order is not at all creditable. In future every week the senior
member of each form will bring me a list with the places of each School House member of the
form on it. I intend to deal severely with anyone I find consistently low. I hope, however,
that I shall not have need to. This is the best house socially and athletically; there is no
reason why we should not be the best house at work too."

"As I prophesied," said Mansell, "most damnable nonsense!"

On the Second and Third Forms this speech had a considerable effect. For the first time in
his life Cockburn did some work, and at the end of the week he was able to announce that he
had gone up two places--from seventeenth to fifteenth. There were seventeen in the form.

The Shell and the Lower Fourth were, of course, too old to consider the possibility of actually
working. It was a preposterous idea. Something had to be done, however, so Collins bought excellent
translations of the works of Vergil and Xenophon. A vote of thanks proposed by Foster and seconded
by Brown was very properly carried nem. con.

But in V. B and IV. A there were some strong, rebellious spirits who would not bow down under
any tyranny. In Study No. 1, at the end of the passage on the lower landing, Mansell addressed
a meeting of delegates with great fervour.

"From time immemorial," he thundered out, "it has been the privilege of the members of this
House" (he had been reading John Bull the day before) "to enjoy themselves, to work if they
wanted to, to smoke if they wanted to, to do any damned thing they wanted to. The only thing
they'd got to do was to play like hell in the Easter term, and here's that ---- Clarke trying
to make us do work, and, what is more, to work for Claremont! Gentlemen, let us stand by our
traditions." (Mr Bottomley is useful at times.)

"That's all very jolly," said the practical Farrow, "but what are you doing?"

"Oh, it doesn't matter what we do, as long as we stand up for our rights. Who ever heard of
School House men working?"

"Now look here, my good fellows," said the ingenious Archie, "it's quite simple, if you will
only do as I tell you. Clarke told us to bring him a form list; the obvious thing to do is
not to bring one at all."

"But, you silly ass, the fellow who ought to have brought it will get into the very Hades of
a row."

"Exactly. But who is the responsible person? Clarke said the senior man. Well, now, in IV.
A I am, as far as work is concerned, the senior man in the form. But Hasel has been in the
form a term longer than me, while Farrow, a most arrant idiot, who has only just reached the
form, has been in the House a year longer than either of us. There is no senior man. We have
all excellent claims to the position, but we waive them in favour of our inferiors."

Archie was at once acclaimed as the Napoleon of deceit. That week Clarke found no form order
either from IV. A or V.B. After prayers that evening he asked to see all those in IV. A and V.B.

When the conspirators arrived at his study Clarke found that everything had been elaborately
prepared. There was not a single hitch in the argument. No one was at fault. There had been
a general misunderstanding. They were, of course, very sorry. Clarke listened in silence.

"Well, I'm sorry this has happened. But when I say that I want a thing done, I expect it to
be done. None of you are to blame particularly; but you are all equally guilty. I shall be
forced to cane the lot of you."

There was a gasp. They had known Clarke was a strong man, but they had hardly expected this.
Mansell was indignant.

"But look here, Clarke, you can't beat me, I'm a House cap."

"Can't I?"

"It has been a House tradition for years that a House cap can't be beaten."

"I am sorry, Mansell, but I have little respect for traditions. Will you all wait for me in
the Sixth Form room?"

"All right, I shall go to the Chief then."

"I don't think you will, Mansell."

The Chief was not very fond of receiving complaints about his House prefects.

It was, of course, obvious that Clarke, when he had started on a job like this, had to carry
it through. If he had gone back, his position would have been impossible; but there could be
no doubt that it was a disastrous campaign as far as the unity of the House was concerned.
At once the House was divided into sides, and nearly the whole of the Sixth Form was against
Clarke.

"It's not the duty of the head of the House to see how people are working. That is a House
master's job," pointed out FitzMorris. "All Clarke has got to do is to see that the kids don't
rag in hall, and at other times more or less behave themselves."

The House was in a state of open rebellion.

And the worst of it was that none of the other prefects made any attempt to keep order. Now
there was a rule that in hall only three people might be allowed in one study, the idea being
that, if more got in, work would be bound to change into conversation. One evening, however,
a huge crowd slowly congregated in Mansell's study. Lovelace dropped in to borrow a book, and
stayed. Hunter and Gordon came for a chat, and stayed too. Archie Fletcher had, as was usual
with him, done all his preparation in half-an-hour, and was in search of something to do. Betteridge
heard a noise outside, walked in, and stopped to give his opinion on the chances of A-K beating
L-Z that week. In a few minutes the conversation got rather heated. The noise could be heard
all down the passage.

Meredith came down to see what was going on.

"Ah, 'some' party! Well, Mansell, got over your beating yet?"

There was subdued laughter.

"I say, Meredith, have A-K the slightest chance of beating us on Thursday?" Lovelace was captain
of L-Z Junior, and had laid rather heavily on a victory.

"Of course not, my good man, I'm going to umpire."

This time the laughter was not subdued.

In his retreat at the far end of the studies Clarke heard it. Down the passage he thundered,
knocked at the door, and came in.

"What's the meaning of this? You know quite well that not more than three are allowed in here
at one time. Come to my study, the lot of you."

All this time Meredith was being jammed behind the door.

"When you have quite finished, Clarke," he said.

"I am sorry, Meredith. Are you responsible for this?"

"In a way, yes. I was rather afraid that the House was getting slack about their work. A very
bad thing for a house, Clarke! So I took this opportunity of holding a little viva voce examination.
We were studying 'The Sermon on the Mount,' a singularly beautiful and impressive passage,
Clarke. Have you read it?"

Clarke had read it that day as the lesson in chapel. He had also read it rather badly, having
a cold in his head.

"You seem to have rather a large class, Meredith," he said sarcastically.

"Yes; like our good Lord, I have beaten the by-ways and the hedges, and I am almost afraid
I shall also have to beat Mansell. He has singularly failed to appreciate the full meaning
of that passage about 'humility.'"

Clarke saw he was beaten, and turned away. As he walked down the passage he heard a roar of
laughter coming from Study No. 1.

The story was all round the House in half-an-hour, and on his way down to prayers Clarke heard
FitzMorris say before a whole crowd:

"You are a great fellow, Meredith. That's the way to keep these upstarts in order."

That night there was merriment in the games study, and Ferguson advised Clarke to let the matter
drop.

"After all, you know, it's not your business."

And perhaps Clarke realised that Ferguson was for once right. But he had to go on; it was very
hard, though. He had been quite popular before he was head of the House. He wished he had left
a year ago. For it is hard to be hated where one loves. And Clarke, well as he loved Fernhurst,
loved the House a hundred times more.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Well played, Caruthers; jolly good knock."

"Well done, Caruthers!"

Lovelace and Mansell banged excitedly into Gordon's study the evening after the Colts match
v. Murchester. Gordon had made thirty-seven on a wet wicket, and a defeat by over a hundred
runs was no fault of his. He had gone in first wicket down, and stayed till the close.

"It was splendid! You ought to be a cert. for your Colts' cap. 'The Bull' was fearfully bucked."

"Oh, I don't know; it was not so very much." In his heart of hearts Gordon was pretty certain
he would get his cap; but it would never do to show what he thought.

"Oh, rot, my good man," burst out Lovelace. "You didn't give a chance after the first over.
And, by Jove, that was a bit of luck then."

"Yes, you know, I have a good deal of luck one way and another. I haven't got in a single row
yet; and I am always being missed."

"And some fellows have no luck at all. Now Foster was batting beautifully before he was run
out; never saw such a scandalous mix-up. All the other man's fault. He bowled well, too. I
shouldn't be a bit surprised if he didn't get his Colts' cap. I know 'the Bull' likes him."

"Do you think so?" said Gordon. He did not know why, but he rather hoped Foster would not get
his cap. He himself would be captain of A-K Junior next year. It would be better if he was
obviously senior to Foster. He was going to be the match-winning factor; and, so far as seniority
goes, there is not much to choose between men who get their colours on the same day.

"Of course he won't if you don't," Mansell said, "but I think he's worth it. I say, let's have
a feed to-night. There's just time before hall to order some stuff. Lovelace, rush off to the
tuck-shop, and put it down to my account."

Gordon found it impossible to work during hall; he fidgeted nervously. He felt as he had felt
on the last day of his first term before prize-giving. He knew if he was going to get his Colts'
cap he would get it early that night. Stewart always gave colours during first hall. He sat
and waited nervously; work became quite impossible. He looked through The Daily Telegraph and
flung it aside; then picked up The London Mail; that was rather more in his line.

There was a sound of talking down the passage. He heard Clarke's voice saying:

"Yes, down there, third study down, No. 16."

A second later there was a knock on the door. He managed to gulp out: "Come in."

"Gratters on your Colts' cap, Caruthers. Well played!"

Stewart shook hands with him. The next minute Gordon heard him walking to the school notice-board
in the cloister. He was pinning up the notice.

Gordon sat quite still; his happiness was too great....

No one is allowed to walk about in the studies before eight dining-hall. For a quarter of an
hour there was silence in the passage.

Eight struck; there was an opening of doors.

A few minutes later Hunter dashed in.

"Well done, Caruthers. Hooray!"

"Well done, Caruthers!" "Good old A-K!" "I am so glad!" Everyone seemed pleased.

Just before prayers, as he sat at the top of the day-room table, FitzMorris came over to him.
"Jolly good, Caruthers. Well done." His cup was full.

Foster did not get his cap....

The next day as Gordon was walking across the courts in break "the Bull" came up to him.

"Gratters, Caruthers; wasn't your fault you lost. I like a man who can fight uphill. You have
got the grit--well done, lad."

"And yet," said Gordon to Mansell, as they passed under the school gate, "you say that man
cares only for his house. Why, he only loves his house because it's a part of Fernhurst; and
Fernhurst is the passion of his life!"

CHAPTER VII: WHEN ONE IS IN ROME ...

Generalisations are always apt to be misleading, but there was surely no truer one ever spoken
than the old proverb: "When one is in Rome, one does as Rome does!" Parsons and godmothers
will, of course, protest that, if you found yourselves among a crowd of robbers and drunkards,
you would not copy them! And yet it is precisely what the average individual would do. When
a boy leaves his preparatory school he has a conscience; he would not tell lies; he would be
scrupulously honest in form; he would not borrow things he never meant to return; he would
say nothing he would be ashamed of his mother or sister overhearing.

But before this same innocent has been at school two terms he has learnt that everything except
money is public property. The name in a book or on a hockey stick means nothing. Someone once
said to Collins:

"I say, I want to write here, are those your books?"

"No, they are the books I use," was the laconic answer.

The code of a Public School boy's honour is very elastic. Masters are regarded as common enemies;
and it is never necessary to tell them the truth. Expediency is the golden rule in all relations
with the common room. And after a very few weeks even Congreve would have had to own that the
timid new boy could spin quite as broad a yarn as he. The parents do not realise this. It is
just as well. It is a stage in the development of youth. Everyone must pass through it. Yet
sometimes it leads to quite a lot of misunderstanding.

There were one or two incidents during this summer term that stood out very clearly in Gordon's
memory as proofs of the way masters may fail to realise the boy's point of view.

One morning just after breakfast Gordon discovered that he had done the wrong maths for Jenks.
He rushed in search of Fletcher.

"I say, Archie, look here, be a sport. I have done the wrong stuff for that ass Jenks. Let's
have a look at yours."

In ten minutes four tremendous howlers in as many sums had been reproduced on Gordon's paper.
The work was collected that morning, and nothing more was heard of it till the next day. Gordon
thought himself quite safe and had ceased to take any interest in the matter. The form was
working out some riders more or less quietly. Suddenly Jenks's tired voice murmured:

"Caruthers, did you copy your algebra off Fletcher?"

"No, sir."

Jenks was rather fond of asking such leading questions.

Caruthers had got tired of it. The man was a fool; he must know by this time that he was bound
to get the same answer.

"Fletcher, did you copy off Caruthers?"

"No, sir."

"Caruthers, did you see Fletcher's paper?"

"No, sir."

How insistent the ass was getting.

"Fletcher, did you see Caruther's paper?"

"No, sir."

"Oh, you silly fellows. Then I shall have to put both your papers before the Headmaster. I'm
afraid you will both be expelled."

Jenks had a strange notion of the offences that merited expulsion. Every time he reported a
boy he expected to see him marching sadly to the station to catch the afternoon train. Once
Collins had stuck a pin into a wonderful mercury apparatus and entirely ruined it.

"Oh, Collins, you stupid boy. I shall have to report you to the Headmaster, and you know what
that means. We sha'n't see you here any more."

Gordon had, of course, not the slightest fear of getting "bunked." But still it was a nuisance.
He would have to be more careful next time.

"Now look here, you two," Jenks went on, after a bit. "If either of you cares to own up, I
won't report you at all. I will deal with you myself."

Slowly Gordon rose. It was obviously an occasion where it paid to own up.

"I did, sir."

"Oh I thought as much. You see yours was in pencil, and if possible a little worse than Fletcher's.
Sit down."

Betteridge afterwards said that to watch Jenks rushing across the courts to see the Chief during
the minute interval between the exit of one class and the arrival of the next was better than
any pantomime. He was very small; he had a large white moustache; his gown was too long; it
blew out like sails in the wind. Besides, it was the first time Jenks had ever been seen to run.

In due time Caruthers and Fletcher appeared before the Chief. The result was only a long "jaw"
and a bad report. The Chief could not perhaps be expected to see that a lie was any the less
a lie because it was told to a master. But in the delinquents any feeling of penitence there
might have been was entirely obscured by an utter scorn of Jenks.

"After all, the man did say he wouldn't report us," said Fletcher.

"Oh, it's all you can expect from these 'stinks men.' They have no sense of honour."

It did not occur to Gordon that in this instance his own sense of honour had not been tremendously
in evidence. The Public School system had set its mark on him.

The other incident was the great clothes row. All rows spring from the most futile sources.
This one began with the sickness of one Evans-Smith, who was suddenly taken ill in form. It
was a hot day, and he fainted. Now Evans-Smith was an absolute nonentity. It was only his second
term, but he had already learnt that anything that was in the changing-room was common property;
and so when the matron took off his shoes before putting him to bed she saw Rudd's name inside.
The matter was reported to the Chief. The Chief made a tour of the changing-room during afternoon
school, and his eyes were opened. For instance, it was quite obvious that Turner had changed.
His school suit was hung on his peg, his blazer was presumably on him, and yet his cricket
trousers were lying on the floor, with Fischer's house scarf sticking out of the pocket. There
were many other like discoveries.

In hall that night the Chief asked Turner whose trousers he was wearing that afternoon. The
wretched youth had not the slightest idea; all he knew was that they were not his own. He thought
they might be Bradford's.

After prayers the Chief addressed the House on the subject. He pointed out how carelessness
in little things led to carelessness in greater, and how dangerous it was to get into a habit
of taking other people's things without thinking. He also said that it was most unhealthy to
wear someone else's clothes. He was, of course, quite right; but the House could not see it,
for the simple reason that it did not want to see it. It would be an awful nuisance to have
to look after one's own things. Besides, probably the man next to you had a much newer sweater.
The House intended to go on as before. And indeed it did.

One day Ferguson thought he wanted some exercise. It was a half-holiday, and Clarke was quite
ready for a game of tennis. Ferguson went down to the changing-room. The first thing he saw
was that his tennis shoes were gone. He thought it quite impossible that anyone should dare
to bag his things. Fuming with wrath, he banged into the matron's room.

"I say, Matron, look here; my tennis shoes are gone."

And then, suddenly, he saw the Chief standing at the other end of the room, glancing down the
dormitory list.

"Oh, really, Ferguson, I must see about this. Matron, do you know anything about Ferguson's shoes?"

"No, sir! Never touch the boys' shoes. George is the only person who looks after them; and
he only cleans black boots and shoes."

"Oh, well, then, Ferguson, you'd better come with me, and we will make a search for them."

Ferguson cursed inwardly. This would mean at least half-an-hour wasted; and he could so easily
have found another pair. The School House changing-room is a noble affair. It is about seventy
feet long and sixty wide. All round it run small partitioned-off benches; in the middle are
stands for corps clothes. At one end there is what was once a piano. Laboriously the Chief
and Ferguson hunted round the room. In the far corner there was an airing cupboard. It was
a great sight to see Ferguson climb up on the top of this. He was not a gymnast, and he took
some time doing it. Hunter sat changing at one end of the room, thoroughly enjoying himself.

Down the passage a loud, tuneless voice began to sing Who were You with Last Night? and Mansell
rolled in. He saw the Chief, and stopped suddenly, going over to Hunter.

"What does the old idiot want?"

"He's hunting for Ferguson's tennis shoes."

"Good Lord! and I've got them on."

"Well, get them off, then, quick."

In a second, while the Chief was looking the other way, Mansell stole across to the middle
of the room and laid them on the top of the hot-water pipes.

About two minutes later Ferguson burst out:

"Look, sir, here they are!"

"But, my dear Ferguson, I'm sure we must have looked there."

"Yes, sir. I thought we had."

"Er, 't any rate there are your shoes, Ferguson, and I hope you'll have a good game!" The Chief
went out, rather annoyed at having wasted so much time. At tea that evening there was mirth
at the V. B table.

On this occasion trouble was avoided. But one day Willing, a new boy, lost his corps hat. He
was certain it had been there before lunch. The Corps Parade was already falling in. Seeing
no other hat to fit him, he very idiotically went on without a hat at all. It would have been
far better to have cut parade altogether. Clarke asked him where his hat was, but his ideas
on the subject were very nebulous. The whole corps was kept waiting while School House hats
were examined. Ten people had got hats other than their own.

They each got a Georgic....

The pent-up fury of the House now broke loose. Everyone swore he would murder Clarke on the
last day, bag his clothes, and hold him in a cold bath for half-an-hour. If half of the things
that were going to be done on the last day ever happened, how very few heads of houses would
live to tell the tale! It is so easy to talk, so very hard to do anything; a head of the House
is absolutely supreme. If he is at all sensitive, it is possible to make his life utterly wretched
by a silent demonstration of hatred, but if he is at all a man, threats can never mature, and
Clarke was a man. During his last days at Fernhurst he was supremely miserable. The House was
split up into factions: he himself had no one to talk to except Ferguson and Sandham. But he
carried on the grim joke to its completion. In the last week he beat four boys for being low
in form, and gave a whole dormitory a hundred lines daily till the end of the term for talking
after lights out. The Chief was sorry to lose him; Ferguson would make a very weak head. The
future was not too bright.

       *       *       *       *       *

"I say, you know, I think I had better get a 'budge' this term." Gordon announced this fact
as the Lower Fifth were pretending to prepare for the exam. Mansell protested:

"Now don't be a damned ass, my good man; you don't know when you are well off. You stop with
old Methuselah a bit longer. He is a most damnable ass, but his form is a glorious slack."

"Oh, well, I don't know. I think the Sixth is slacker still. I am going to specialise in something
when I get there. I am not quite sure what. But it's going to mean a lot of study hours."

At Fernhurst there was a great scheme by which specialists always worked in their studies.
To specialise was the dream of every School House boy. It is so charming to watch, from the
warm repose of your own study, black figures rushing across the rain-swept courts on the way
to their class-rooms (it always rained at Fernhurst), and Gordon was essentially a hedonist.

"Yes, I suppose the higher you go up the less work you do," said Mansell. "When I was with
old 'Bogus' I used to prepare my lessons sometimes, and, what's more, with a dictionary."

"Oh, Quantum mutatus ab illo," sighed Gordon.

"Yes, you know," said Betteridge, "the higher you get up the school the less you need worry
about what you do. The prefect is supposed to be the model of what a Public School boy should
be. And yet he is about the fastest fellow in the school. If I got caught in Davenham's study
by the Chief, even if I said I was only borrowing a pencil, I should get in the deuce of a
row. But Meredith can sit there all hall and say he's making inquiries about a boxing competition.
He's trusted. The lower forms aren't allowed to prepare in their studies. They might use a
crib, so they have to work in the day-room or big school. The Fifth is trusted to work, so
it can spend school hours in its studies. Of course the Third works the whole time, while the
Fifth just writes the translation between the lines and then plays barge cricket. It's no use
trusting a Public School boy. Put faith in him and he'll take advantage of it; and yet there
are still some who say the Public School system is satisfactory!"

"And I am one of them," said Mansell. "I've had a damned good term so far, and next term, when
I get that big study, I shall have a still finer time. School may be bad as a moral training,
but I live to enjoy myself. Here's to the Public School system. Long may it live!"

Betteridge smiled rather sadly; he was not an athlete.

       *       *       *       *       *

The summer exams turned out a lamentably dull affair. Claremont superintended the Shell and
the Lower Fifth. Anyone who wished to crib could have done so easily. But hardly anyone took
the trouble. Mansell swore he would stay where he was. Ruddock, Johnstone and the other old
stagers were all of the same opinion. Gordon had determined to get high enough for a promotion,
but no higher; tenth would do; and it was easy to get up there. The small boys in the front
bench were all Balliol scholars in embryo; it would not pay them to crib. The great law of
expediency overhung all proceedings. The result was that they were as lifeless and dull as
most other virtuous things.

There were, however, a few bright incidents, the foremost of which was the Divinity exam. Claremont,
we know, was a parson and a lover of poetry, and that term the form had been reading Judges
and Samuel and Kings. As the Divinity exam. came first, it would be wise to put the old man
in a good temper. Ruddock introduced Mr ffoakes Jackson's work on the Old Testament disguised
as a writing-pad.

There is nothing easier than to write down correct answers to one-word questions, if you have
the answer-book in front of you. Ruddock's writing-pad passed slowly round the back and centre
benches. Next day the result was announced.

"Well," said Claremont, "I must own that I was agreeably surprised by the results of the Divinity
papers. The lowest mark was seventy-nine out of a hundred, and that was Kennedy." (Kennedy
was invariably top in the week's order.) "Ruddock did a really remarkable paper, and scored
a hundred out of a hundred. Johnstone and Caruthers both got ninety-nine, and several others
were in the nineties. In fact, the only ones in the eighties were those who usually excel.
I have taken the form now for over thirty years, and this is quite unparalleled. I shall ask
the Headmaster if a special prize cannot be given to Johnstone. He certainly deserves one."

But the Chief was very wise. As he glanced down the mark list he realised that Johnstone's
marks could hardly be due to honest work. But the Chief was also very tactful. He thought,
on the whole, that in case of such general merit it would be invidious to single any individual
out for special distinction, and, of course, he could not give prizes to everyone. He would,
however, most certainly mention the fact at prize-giving. When he did, the applause was strangely
mingled with laughter.

But this was only one incident in many dull hours. As a whole, the week's exam. failed to provide
much to look back on afterwards with any satisfaction. Even the Chemistry exam. fell flat.
FitzMorris picked up a copy of the paper on Jenks's desk and took a copy of it. The marks here
also were above the average.

       *       *       *       *       *

It is inevitable that the end of the summer term should be overhung with an atmosphere of sadness.
When the new September term opens there are many faces that will be missing; the giants of
yester-year will have departed; another generation will have taken their places. But for all
that these last days are not without their own particular glory. Rome must have been very wonderful
during the last week of Sulla's consulship. And in the passing of Meredith there was something
essentially splendid; for it happens so seldom in life that the culminating point of our success
coincides with the finish of anything. We are continually being mocked by the horror of the
second best. We do not know where to stop; we cling too long to our laurels; and when the end
finally comes they have begun to wither. Death is an anti-climax. The heart that once loved,
and was as grass before the winds of passion, has grown cold amid a world of commonplace. But
at school there is no dragging out of triumphs. All too soon the six short years fly past,
and we stand on the threshold of life in the very flush of our pride. "Just once in a while
we may finish in style." It is not often; the roses fade.

The final of the Senior House matches was drawing to a close on the last Friday of the term.
Buller's were beating the School House L-Z easily. There had never been any doubt about the
result. L-Z was entirely a one-man side, that Meredith had managed to carry it on his shoulders
through the two first rounds.

The House had only two wickets in hand, and still wanted over eighty runs to avoid an innings'
defeat. But Meredith was still in. It had been a great innings. He had gone in first with Mansell,
and watched wicket after wicket fall, while he had gone on playing the same brilliant game.
Every stroke was the signal of a roar from the pavilion. The whole House was looking on. It
was a fitting end to a dazzling career. It was like his life, reckless and magnificent. At
last he mis-hit a half-volley and was caught in the deep for seventy-two.

As he left the wicket the whole House surged forward in front of the pavilion, and formed up
in two lines, leaving a gangway. Amid tremendous applause Meredith ran between them. The cheering
was deafening.

After prayers that night the Chief said a few words about the match.

"I am sorry we did not win; but, then, I don't think many of us dared to hope for that. At
any rate, we were not disgraced, and I wish to take the opportunity of congratulating Meredith,
not only on his superb innings this afternoon, but also on his keen and energetic captaincy
throughout the term."

This was the signal for another demonstration. Everyone beat with their fists upon their table.
It was a great scene.

The giants of our youth always appear to us much greater than those of any successive era.
In future years Gordon was to see other captains of football, other captains of cricket, but
with the exception of the tremendous Lovelace, Meredith towered above them all. He was at that
moment the very great god of Gordon's soul. He seemed to be all that Gordon wished to be, brilliant
and successful. Surely the fates had showered on him all their gifts.

On the last Monday there was a huge feed in the games study. Over twenty people were crowded
in. Armour was there, Mansell, Gordon, Simonds, Foster, Ferguson, everyone except Clarke. There
was no one who was not sorry to lose Meredith; his achievements so dazzled them that they could
see nothing beyond them. They were proud to have such a man in the house. It was all sheer
happiness.

Somehow on the last day the following notice appeared on the House board:--

    In Memoriam
    MALEVUS SCHOLARUM
    In hadibus requiescat
    Quod non sine ignominia militavit

No one knew who was responsible for it. Clarke looked at it for a second and turned away with
a face that expressed no emotion.

By the Sixth Form green Simonds was shouting across to Meredith:

"Best of luck, old fellow, and mind you come down for the House supper...."

On the way down to the station Archie Fletcher burst out:

"Well, thank God, that swine Clarke's gone. He absolutely mucked up the House." Gordon agreed.

"If we had a few more men like Meredith now!" Rather a change had come over the boy who a year
before had been shocked at the swearing in the bathroom. "When one is in Rome...."

    PAUL VERLAINE.

CHAPTER I: QUANTUM MUTATUS

If Gordon were given the opportunity of living any single year over again, exactly as he had
lived it before, he would in all probability have chosen his second year at Fernhurst. He had
then put safely out of sight behind him the doubts and anxieties of the junior; he had not
yet reached any of the responsibilities of the senior. It was essentially a time of light-hearted
laughter, of "rags," of careless happiness. Every day dawned without a trace of trouble imminent;
every night closed with a feed in Mansell's big study, while the gramophone strummed out rag-time
choruses. And yet these three terms were very critical ones in the development of Gordon's
character. Sooner or later everyone must pass through the middle stage Keats speaks of, where
"the way of life is uncertain, and the soul is in a ferment." Most boys have at their preparatory
schools been so carefully looked after that they have never learnt to think for themselves.
They take everything as a matter of course. They believe implicitly what their masters tell
them about what is right and wrong. Life is divided up into so many rules. But when the boy
reaches his Public School he finds himself in a world where actions are regulated not by conscience,
but by caprice. Boys do what they know is wrong; then invent a theory to prove it is right;
and finally persuade themselves that black is white. It is pure chance what the Public School
system will make of a boy. During the years of his apprenticeship, so to speak, he merely sits
quiet, listening and learning; then comes the middle period, the period in which he is gradually
changing into manhood. In it all his former experiences are jumbled hopelessly together, his
life is in itself a paradox. He does things without thinking. There is no consistency in his
actions. Then finally the threads are unravelled, and out of the disorder of conflicting ideas
and emotions the tapestry is woven on the wonderful loom of youth.

The average person comes through all right. He is selfish, easy-going, pleasure-loving, absolutely
without a conscience, for the simple reason that he never thinks. But he is a jolly good companion;
and the Freemasonry of a Public School is amazing. No man who has been through a good school
can be an outsider. He may hang round the Empire bar, he may cheat at business; but you can
be certain of one thing, he will never let you down. Very few Public School men ever do a mean
thing to their friends. And for a system that produces such a spirit there is something to
be said after all.

But for the boy with a personality school is very dangerous. Being powerful, he can do nothing
by halves; his actions influence not only himself, but many others. On his surroundings during
the time of transition from boyhood to manhood depend to a great extent the influence that
man will work in the world. He will do whatever he does on a large scale, and people are bound
to look at him. He may stand at the head of the procession of progress; he may dash himself
to pieces fighting for a worthless cause; and by the splendour of his contest draw many to
him. More likely he will be like Byron, a wonderful, irresponsible creature, who at one time
plumbed the depths, and at another swept the heavens--a creature irresistibly attractive, because
he is irresistibly human. Gordon was a personality. His preparatory school master said of him
once: "He will be a great failure or a great success, perhaps both," and it was the truest
thing ever said of him. At present the future was very uncertain. During his first year he
had been imbibing knowledge from his contemporaries; he had been a spectator; now the time
had come for him to take his part in the drama of Fernhurst life. All ignorant he went his
way; careless, arrogant and proud.

It must be owned that during this year Gordon was rather an objectionable person. He was very
much above himself. For five years he had been tightly held in check, and when freedom at last
came he did not quite know how to use it. He was boisterous and noisy; always in the middle
of everything. If ever there was a row in the studies, it would be a sure assumption that Caruthers
was mixed up in it. Everything combined to give him a slack time.

Ferguson was head of the House. But he took only a casual interest in its welfare.

"My dear Betteridge," he used to say, "if you were aware of the large issues of art and life,
you would see that it would be a mere waste of time worrying about such a little thing as discipline
in a house. You should widen your intellectual horizon. Read Verlaine and Baudelaire and then
see life as it is."

Ferguson was a poet; twice a term the school magazine was enriched with a poem from his pen.
His last effort was called Languor, and opened with the line:

    "In amber dreams of amorous despair."

"The Bull" had asked someone in his house what the thing meant. To Ferguson that seemed a high
compliment. To be incoherent was a great gift. Swinburne often meant very little, and in his
heart of hearts Ferguson thought Languor was, on the whole, more melodious than Dolores. But
that was, of course, purely a matter of opinion. At any rate, it was a fine composition; and
a poet must not dabble in the common intrigues of little minds.

He let the House go its own sweet way; and the House was grateful, and gave Ferguson the reputation
of being rather a sport. There were no more weekly orders; no more cleaning of corps clothes.
There was at last peace in Jerusalem, and plenteousness within her palaces.

Simonds was captain of the House. He was working hard for a History scholarship, and could
not spend much time in looking after House games. There would be tons of time in the Easter
term to train on House sides. So he, too, let things slide, and the House lived a happy life.
Those who wanted to play footer, played; those who wanted to work, worked; those who wished
to do nothing, did nothing. A cheerful philosophy. For a week it worked quite well.

Gordon was lucky enough to find himself in the position of not only not wanting to work, but
also not having to. He had got his promotion into V. A, and found it a land of milk and honey.
Macdonald, his form master, was one of the most splendid men Fernhurst has ever owned on its
staff. For over forty years he had sat in exactly the same chair, and watched generation after
generation pass, without appearing the least bit older. He grew a little stout, perhaps. But
his heart was the same. It took a lot to trouble him. He realised that the world was too full
of sceptics and cynics, and swore that he would not number himself among them. He was now the
senior assistant master and the best scholar on the staff.

"You know, these young men aren't what we were," he used to say to his form; "not one of them
can write a decent copy of Latin verses. All these Cambridge men are useless--useless!" In
his form it was unnecessary to work very hard; but in it the average boy learnt more than he
learnt anywhere else. For Macdonald was essentially a scholar; he did not merely mug up notes
by German commentators an hour before the lesson. For him the classics lived; and he made his
form realise this. To do Aristophanes with him was far better than any music hall. Horace he
hated. One day when they were doing Donec gratus eram tibi, he burst out with wrath:

"Horrible little cad he was! Can't you see him? Small man, blue nose with too much drinking.
Bibulous little beast. If I had been Lydia I would have smacked his face and told him to go
to Chloë. I'd have had done with him. Beastly little cad!"

But it was in history that he was at his best. It was a noble sight to see him imitate the
weak-kneed, slobbering James I; and he had the private scandals of Henry VIII at his finger-tips.
For all commentators he had a profound contempt. One day he seized Farrar's edition of St Luke,
and holding it at arm's-length between his finger and thumb, shook it before the form.

"Filth," he cried, "filth and garbage; take it away and put it down the water-closet." He had
a genius for spontaneous comments. Kennedy was very nervous; and whenever he said his rep.
he used to hold the seat of his trousers.

"Man, man!" Macdonald shouted out, "you won't be able to draw any inspiration from your stern."

His form would be in a continuous roar of laughter all day long; and when particularly pleased
it always rubbed its feet on the floor, a strange custom that had lasted many years. Claremont's
form-room was situated just above him, and he could often hardly hear himself speak. He used
to complain bitterly.

"How I wish my jovial colleague down below would keep his form a little more in order."

But Macdonald got his revenge one day when Claremont was reciting Macbeth's final speech fortissimo
to his form.

"Hush!" said Macdonald. "We must listen to this." Suddenly he chuckled to himself: "And do
you think he really imagines he is doing any good to his form by giving that nigger minstrel
entertainment up there?"

The roar of laughter that followed quite spoilt the effect of the recitation. Work became quite
impossible in V.B.

It was about this time that the House began to interest itself in the welfare of Rudd. Rudd
was the senior scholar of the year before, and he looked like it. He was fairly tall and very
thin. His legs bore little relation to the rest of his body. They fell into place. He was of
a dusky countenance, partly because he was of Byzantine origin, partly because he never shaved,
chiefly because he did not wash. His clothes always looked as if they had been rolled up into
a bundle and used for dormitory football. Perhaps they had. Rudd was not really a bad fellow.
He was by way of being a wit. One day the Chief had set the form a three-hour Divinity paper,
consisting of four longish questions. One was: "Do you consider that the teaching of Socrates
was in some respects more truly Christian than that of St Paul?" Rudd showed up a whole sheet
with one word on it: "Yes." Next day his Sixth Form privileges were taken away. But the House
took little notice of his academic audacities. Rudd did not wash; he was an insanitary nuisance;
moreover, he did not play footer.

"That man Rudd is a disgrace to the House," Archie announced one evening after tea; "he's useless
to the House; he slacks at rugger and is unclean. Let's ship his study." There was a buzz of
assent. There was a good deal of rowdyism going on in the House just then; and at times it
would have been hard to draw the exact borderline between ragging and bullying. A solemn procession
moved to Study No. 14. Rudd was working.

"Hullo, Byzantium," said Mansell. "How goes it?"

"Oh, get out, you; I want to work!"

"Gentlemen, Mr Rudd wishes to work," Betteridge announced. "The question is, shall he be allowed
to? I say 'No!'" He suddenly jerked away the chair Rudd was sitting on: the owner of the study
collapsed on the floor.

Archie at once loosed a tremendous kick at his back.

"Get up, you dirty swine! Haven't you any manners? Stand up when you are talking to gentlemen."

Rudd had a short temper; he let out and caught Mansell on the chin. It is no fun ragging a
man who doesn't lose his temper. But, as far as Mansell was concerned, proceedings were less
cordial after this. He leapt on Rudd, bore him to the ground, and sat on his head. Foul language
was audible from the bottom of the floor. Rudd had not studied Euripides for nothing. Lovelace
picked up a hockey stick. "This, gentlemen," he began, "is a hockey stick, useful as an implement
of offence if the prisoner gets above himself, and also useful as a means of destroying worthless
property. I ask you, gentlemen, it is right that, while we should have only three chairs among
two people, Rudd should have two all to himself? Gentlemen, I propose to destroy that chair."

In a few minutes the chair was in fragments. A crowd began to collect.

"I say, you men," shouted Gordon, "the refuse heap is just opposite; let's transfer all the
waste paper of the last ten years and bury the offender."

Just across the passage was a long, blind-alley effect running under the stairs, which was
used as a store for waste paper. It was cleaned out about once every generation. In a few minutes
waste-paper baskets had been "bagged" from adjoining studies, and No. 14 was about a foot deep
in paper.

"That table is taking up too much room, Lovelace," Bradford bawled out; "smash it up."

The table went to join the chair in the Elysian Fields. Rudd was now almost entirely immersed
in paper. The noise was becoming excessive. Oaths floated down the passage.

At last Ferguson moved. In a blasé way he strolled down the passage. For a minute he was an
amused spectator, then he said languidly: "Suppose we consider the meeting adjourned. I think
it's nearly half-time." Gradually the crowd began to clear; Rudd rose out of the paper like
Venus out of the water. A roar of laughter broke out.

"Well, Rudd, I sincerely hope you are insured," murmured Ferguson.

What Rudd said is unprintable. In his bill at the end of the term his father found there was
a charge of ten shillings for damaged property in Study No. 14. Rudd got less pocket-money
the next term.

       *       *       *       *       *

"I say, you fellows, have you heard the latest? 'The Bull' has kicked me out of the Colts."

Lovelace came into the changing-room, fuming with rage. There had been a Colts' trial that
afternoon. Buller had cursed furiously and finally booted Lovelace off the field, with some
murmured remarks about "typical School House slackness."

"It's damned rot," said Bradford. "Because Simonds has made rather an ass of himself in the
last two matches, Bull thinks the whole House is slack. He gave Turner six to-day just because
he hadn't looked up one word. I hope he doesn't intend to judge the whole House by Simonds."

The House was getting fed up with Simonds. It was all very well working in moderation for scholarships,
but when it came to allowing games to suffer, things were getting serious. Private inclination
cannot stand in the way of the real business of life. And no one would hesitate to own that
he had come to Fernhurst mainly to play footer.

"But, you know, I don't think 'the Bull's' that sort," Gordon protested; "he may lose his temper
and all that, but I think he's fair."

"Do you?" said Hunter drily.

There was a laugh. As a whole, the House was certain that "the Bull" was against them.

In a week's time Lovelace was back again in the Colts, and Gordon was telling his friends what
fools they were not to trust "the Bull."

       *       *       *       *       *

Gordon was confirmed this term. He was rather young; but it was obviously the thing to do,
and, as Mansell said: "It's best to take the oath when you are more or less 'pi,' and there
is still some chance of remaining so. You can't tell what you will be like in a year or so."

As is the case with most boys, Confirmation had very little effect on Gordon. He was not an
atheist; he accepted Christianity in much the same way that he accepted the Conservative party.
All the best people believed in it, so it was bound to be all right; but at the same time it
had not the slightest influence over his actions. If he had any religion at this time it was
House football; but for the most part, he lived merely to enjoy himself, and his pleasures
were, on the whole, innocuous. They very rarely went much beyond ragging Rudd.

"Do you think," said Gordon, the evening after his first confirmation address, "that the masters
really believe confirmation has any effect on us? Because you know it doesn't."

"I don't think it matters very much what masters think," said Hunter; "most of them here have
got into a groove. They believe the things they ought to believe; they are all copies of the
same type. They've clean forgotten what it was like at school. Hardly any of them really know
boys. They go on happily believing them 'perhaps a little excitable, but on the whole, perfectly
straight and honest.' Then a row comes. They are horrified. They don't realise all of us are
the same. They've made themselves believe what they want to believe."

"Yes, and when they are told the truth, they won't believe it," said Betteridge. "You know,
I was reading an article in some paper the other day, by an assistant master at Winchborough,
called Ferrers. He was cursing the whole system. I showed it to Claremont, just for a rag;
told him I thought it was rather good. The old fool looked at it for some time, and then said:
'Well, Betteridge, don't form your style on this. It is very perfervid stuff. Not always grammatical.'
All the ass thinks of is whether plurals agree with singulars; he does not care a damn whether
the material is good."

"That's it," said Gordon. "Masters try to make you imitate, and not think for yourself. 'Mould
your Latin verses on Vergil, your Greek prose on Thucydides, your English on Matthew Arnold,
but don't think for yourself. Don't be original.' If anyone big began to think he'd see what
a farce it all is; and then where would all these fossils be? It's all sham; look at the reports.
Bradford gets told he's a good moral influence. Mansell works hard and deserves his prize.
It is hoped that confirmation will be a help to me. Rot, it all is!"

"Oh, I'm not so certain confirmation is a farce," broke in Bradford. "If you don't believe
in it, you won't get to heaven."

"But who the hell wants to get there," said Mansell. "Sing hymns all day long. I can imagine
it. Fancy having Caruthers singing out of tune in your ear for ever. It's bad enough in chapel
once a day. But for ever----!"

"My good lads, you don't know what heaven's like," whispered Bradford confidentially. "Claremont
was gassing away about Browning the other day, and said that he believed that in heaven you
could do all the things you wanted to do on earth! And by Jove I would have a hot time--some
place, heaven!"

"By Jove, yes; but you know, Bradford, there won't be much left for you to do in heaven; at
the rate you are going you will have done most things on earth."

"Oh, I am going to reform, and then I shall write to Claremont and tell him how I, a wandering
sheep, was brought home by his interpretation of Andrew Dol Portio--I think that's what the
thing was called."

"Of course, that is an idea," said Mansell, "but I am not so sure of what's going to happen
when we're dead. I am going to have a jolly good time, and then take the risk. I never hedge
my bets."

"Well, you may go on your way to the eternal bonfire," said Bradford, "but I am for righteousness.
Now, listen to this, it's in the book we have to read for confirmagers, Daily Lies on the Daily
Path: '... If you think that in your house things are being talked about that would shock your
mother or sister, don't merely shun it as something vile. It is your duty to fight against
it; reason with the boys. They probably have some grain of decency left in them. If that fails,
report the matter to your house master. He will take your side. The boys will probably be expelled,
but you will have done your duty, as Solomon says in Proverbs....' There now, Mansell. I am
one of the children of light. So you know what to expect from me. Shall I reason with you,
lad? Have you a grain of decency left in you, or must I----"

At this point a well-aimed cushion put an end to the fervour of the new child of light. Betteridge
sat on his head.

"Look here, Bradford," he began, "you may be a convert and all that, but don't play John the
Baptist in here. It does not pay. Very shortly I shall carry your head to the dustbin in a
saucer. Let me tell you the story of one Stevenson in Mr Macdonald's house. He was, like you,
about to be confirmed, and was, like you, very full of himself. And being, as Lovelace, a lover
of the race-course, he walked about in his study in hall, chanting us a dirge out of sheer
religious fervour: 'My name is down for the confirmation stakes.' Macdonald passed the door
and, on hearing him, entered and said: 'Well you are scratched now at any rate! 'Take that
to heart, and be not as the seeds that are sown on stony ground, who spring up in the night
and wither in the morning."

Betteridge intoned the whole lecture. The story was in a way true, but the Stevenson in question
had shouted down the passage: "Hurrah, no prep. to-night; my name is down for the confirmation
stakes." With the result as above. Gordon burst out:

"By the way, talking of Macdonald, he made a priceless remark to-day. Kennedy, that little
cove in Christy's, came in late and began stammering out that it was only a minute or two over
time; Macdonald looked on him for a minute, and then said: 'Your excuse is just about as good
as the woman's who, having had an illegitimate baby, protested that it was only a small one.'"

"By Jove, he's some fellow. Now he's a man," said Mansell. "He's a boy still; he can see our
side of the question, and he knows what footling idiots half of the common room are. If we
had more like him." ...

"And it would be a jolly good thing, too," said Betteridge, "if we could get a really young
master like that Winchborough man, Ferrers, I was telling you about. He'd stir things up a bit."

At that moment the Abbey sounded half-past eight.

"Good Lord," said Hunter, "only quarter of an hour more, and we've done nothing the whole of
hall. Let's rout out Lovelace and go and rag Rudd."

In three minutes Rudd was under the table, with Mansell seated on his chest.

It was rather unfortunate that Gordon should have chosen Tester to have a study with. Tester
was over sixteen, was in the Lower Sixth, and had got his Seconds at cricket. He was a House
blood. Gordon did not care for him particularly. But he had a good study, No. 1, at the far
end of the lower landing, and Gordon wanted a big study. It was so very fine to sit chatting
to Foster or Collins in one of the small studies for a little time and then to say suddenly,
in a lordly manner: "Oh, look here, there's no room here at all. Come down to my study, there
are several arm-chairs there!"

It is always pleasant to appear better than one's equals. But Tester was a dangerous friend
to have at a time when the mind is so open to impressions. For Tester had not risen to his
position on his own merits alone. Lovelace major had always said he was not much good, and
the year before had not given him his House cap. But Tester was a very great friend of Stewart's,
the captain of the Eleven. Stewart gave him his Seconds for making twenty against the town,
so Meredith had to give him his House cap. It is a school rule that a "Seconds" must have his
House cap. Tester was not improved by his friendship with Stewart, and the pity was that he
was really clever. He could always argue his case.

"I never asked to be brought into this world," he said, "I am just suddenly put here, and told
to make the best of things; and I intend to make the best of things. I am going to do what
I like with my life. Wrong and right are merely relative terms. They change to fit their environment.
Baudelaire would not have been tolerated in the Hampstead Garden Suburb; Catullus would not
have been received in Sparta. But at Paris and Rome customs were different. We only frame philosophies
to suit our wishes. And I prefer to follow my own inclinations to those of a sham twentieth-century
civilisation."

Gordon did not like this; but if one lives daily in the company of a man who is clever and
a personality, one is bound to look at life, at times, at any rate, through his spectacles.
Gordon began to look on things which he once objected to as quite natural and ordinary.

"I say, Caruthers, I hope you don't mind clearing out of here for a bit," Tester would say.
"Stapleton is coming in for a few minutes. You quite understand, don't you?"

As soon as we begin to look on a thing as ordinary and natural, we also begin to think it is
right. After a little Gordon ceased to worry whether such things were right or wrong. It was
silly to quarrel with existing conditions, especially if they were rather pleasant ones. Gordon
had a study with Tester till the end of the summer.

One day, towards the end of the Easter term, Gordon asked Tester, rather shyly, if he would
leave him alone a little. "I've often cleared out for you, you know."

"Of course, that's quite all right, my dear fellow. Any time you like, I understand!" Tester
smiled as he walked down the passage.

But during the winter term Gordon worried about little except football; when he was not playing,
he was ragging. Form he looked on as a glorious recreation. He was learning more than he ever
learned afterwards without making much effort. Macdonald was a scholar; he did not teach people
by making them work, he taught them by making it impossible for them to forget what he told
them. No one who has ever been through the Upper Fifth at Fernhurst would have the slightest
difficulty in writing a character sketch of any English king, even though he might never have
read a chapter about him. Macdonald made every man in history a living character; not a sort
of rack on which to hang dates and facts.

Football, however, was not going quite so satisfactorily. Gordon was never tried for the Colts
Fifteen, although he subsequently proved himself better than most of the other forwards in
it, and had to play in House games every day. Once a week a House game is a thundering good
game, but more often it is one-sided, and for a person who really cares for footer, such afternoons
are very dull. On the Upper or Lower a good game was certain; the captain of the school always
chose sides that would be fairly level. But House sides were different. Nothing depended on
their results. Sometimes bloods would play, sometimes not; it was a toss up. And worst of all,
Simonds was abominably slack. For a few weeks the House thought it rather funny, and the smaller
members of the House secretly rejoiced; but the games-loving set waxed furious.

"Damn it all," said Mansell, "the man's here to coach us, not to sit in his study swating up
dates!"

The result of it was that Mansell and his friends got filled with an enormous sense of their
own importance; they considered themselves the only people in the House who were keen. And
they let the rest of the House know it. They groused about "the great days of Lovelace," and
gave people like Rudd a most godless time. There is no more thoroughly self-satisfied person
than the second-class athlete; and when he also imagines himself an Isaiah preaching repentance,
he wants kicking badly. Unfortunately no one kicked Gordon or Lovelace; and they went on their
way contented with themselves, though with no one else.

       *       *       *       *       *

One of the easiest ways of discovering a person's social status at school is by watching his
behaviour in the tuck-shop. The tuck-shop or "Toe," as it is generally called, is a long wooden
building with corrugated iron roof, situated just opposite Buller's house, not far from the
new buildings. It is divided by a wooden partition into two shops; at each end of the outer
shop run two counters. On the right-hand counter, which is connected with a small kitchen,
cakes, muffins and sausages are sold; on the left-hand side there are sweets and fruit. The
inner and larger room is filled with tables, and round the room are photographs of all the
school teams. At the far end, in huge green frames, are hung photographs of the two great Fernhurst
Fifteens who went through the season without losing a match. The "Toe" is the noisiest place
in the whole school. It is superintended by five waitresses, and they have a very poor time of it.

The real blood is easily recognised. He strolls in as if he had taken a mortgage on the place,
swaggers into the inner room, puts down his books on the top table in the right-hand corner--only
the bloods sit here--and demands a cup of tea and a macaroon. A special counter has been made
by the bloods' table, so that the great men can order what they want without going back into
the outer shop. No real blood ever makes a noise in the outer shop. When he is once inside
the inner shop, however, he immediately lets everyone know it. If he sees anyone he knows,
he bawls out:

"I say, have you prepared this stuff for Christy?"

The person asked never has.

"Nor have I. Rot, I call it."

No blood is ever known to have prepared anything.

The big man then sits down. If a friend of his is anywhere about, he flings a lump of sugar
at him. When he gets up he knocks over at least one chair. He then strolls out, observing the
same magnificent dignity in the outer shop. No one can mistake him.

But the only other person who makes no row in the outer shop is the small boy, who creeps in,
and creeps out, unnoticed. Everyone with any claim to greatness asserts his presence loudly.
The chief figures at this time were the junior members of Buller's, and especially the two
Hazlitts. Their elder brother was the school winger, and an important person; but they had
done nothing but make a noise during their two years at Fernhurst. Athleticism had had a disastrous
effect on them. Because their house had won the Thirds, Two Cock and Three Cock, they thought
themselves gods. In the tuck-shop they acted as avenging angels sent to punish a wicked world.
Their chief amusement was to see a person leaning over a counter, kick his backside when he
was not looking, and then run away. It was their class that were the real nuisance in the "Toe."
They persecuted the girls in charge most damnably. Very often only one girl was in charge.
The younger Hazlitt would at once seat himself on the other counter and shriek out:

"Nellie, when are you coming over here? I shall bag these sweets if you don't buck up." He
would then seize a huge glass jar of peppermints, and roll it along the zinc counter.

"Oh, Mr Hazlitt, do leave that alone," the wretched Nellie would implore. But it was no use.
When there was a big crowd waiting to be served, the Hazlitt brethren would take knives and
beat on the zinc counter, shouting out: "Nellie, come here!" They were a thoroughly objectionable
pair. Whenever Mansell saw them, he kicked them hard, and they got rather frightened of the
School House after a bit.

It is not to be thought, however, that the behaviour of the School House was exemplary. Mansell
usually kicked up an almighty row, but he left "Nellie" alone. He was not going to lower himself
to the Hazlitt level.

It is an amazing thing that the half-blood very rarely gets into a row; and yet he always talks
as if expulsion hung over his head. Probably he thinks it draws attention to himself. Mansell
would always enter the shop in exactly the same way; he banged his books on the counter and,
sighting Hunter, fired off at once.

"I say, look here, give me a con. I am in the hell of a hole. I prepared the wrong stuff for
old Claremont, and the man's getting awfully sick with me; he may report me to the Chief. Do
help me out!"

"Sorry, old cock," said Hunter, "but I specialise in stinks!"

"Oh, do you! Well, I suppose I shall have to chance it; that's all. He may not shove me on."

The small boys thought Mansell's daring very fine. But strangely enough, although he was always
in a state of fearful agitation, he had so far singularly managed to avoid getting reported.
But still it kept up appearances to talk a lot.

Gordon, of course, had to be fairly quiet in the tuck-shop. He was not yet known among the
school in general; and it was only in Buller's that small boys gave tongue in the tuck-shop.
But then Buller's were, in their own opinion, to the rest of the School as Rome was to Italy.
Fernhurst was merely a province of Buller's. They kept this view to themselves, however. "The
Bull" would have dealt very summarily with such assumptions.

And so, when Lovelace and Tester and Mansell were there Gordon was generally to be found contributing
his share to the general disorder, but when alone, he sat quite quietly with Collins and Foster.
He rather longed for the day when he could start a row all on his own. A strange ambition for
any candidate for immortality!

       *       *       *       *       *

About the middle of the term was the field day at Salisbury Plain. Most of the Public Schools
were present; it was a noble affair from the general's point of view. The school, however,
considered it a putrid sweat. For hours they pounded over ploughed fields and the day dragged
slowly on to its weary close and two hundred very tired privates at last fell into a six-fifty
train.

Two days later a notice was brought round by the school custos: "Roll for all those who went
to Salisbury Plain on Wednesday in the big schoolroom at six P.M." There is nothing quite so
enjoyable as the sensation that a big row is on, in which you yourself have no part. Gordon
trembled with excitement. He whispered excitedly to the man on his left, Lidderdale, a man
in Rogers': "What's up?"

"Oh, nothing much. Some silly ass put his bayonet through a carriage window. Rogers was gassing
about it in the dormitories last night."

"Oh!" said Gordon. Very disappointedly he returned to his academic activities. He had had hopes
of some splendid row, and after all, it was only about a silly ass and a bayonet. Rotten! Fancy
being made late for tea because of that. But, as it turned out, his hopes were satisfied. When
he reached the big schoolroom, everything certainly looked most formal. In front of the big
dais where the choir stood during the concerts sat all the masters in a half-circle. The Chief
sat in the centre.

"Are they all here, Udal?" the Chief asked the senior sergeant.

"Yes, sir."

The Chief rose.

"I have to address you to-night on a very serious subject. During the field day last Wednesday,
someone in this room disgraced not only his school, but the King's uniform. An officer from
another school has written to tell me that he overheard two of you talking outside the canteen
in language that would disgrace a costermonger. I sincerely wish he had taken their names at
once. As it is, I do not know their names. The officer in question said that both boys were
over seventeen, and that the shorter of the two said nothing at all, as far as he could hear.
Now I want the names of both those boys. If they own up to me to-night, I shall most certainly
deal very severely with one at least of them. If they do not come to me of their own free will,
I may be forced to ask the officer to come down and identify the boys, in which case both will
from that instant cease to be members of Fernhurst School."

In a state of high excitement the school poured down to tea.

"I bet it's someone in Christy's," said Bradford.

Christy believed in leaving his house entirely to his prefects. It was a good way of avoiding
responsibility; but his choice of prefects was not altogether wise.

"Do you think the men will own up?" said Gordon.

"Not unless they're most abandoned fools," replied Lovelace.

There was only one topic of conversation at tea, and afterwards Lovelace, Hobson and Gordon
discussed the affair keenly in No. 1. They all agreed that the men would not own up, and the
general opinion was that someone in Christy's was responsible. Discussion raged fiercely as
to who it was. Gordon was all for it being Isaacs, Lovelace for Everington, Hunter for Mead.
The point was being debated, when Tester and Bradford came in.

"Hullo, come in," shouted Gordon, "we are having a great fight about this. I say Isaacs is
the most likely man. What do you think?"

Tester looked round carefully, and then began anxiously:

"Look here, you men; swear you won't tell a soul if we tell you something."

The oath was taken.

"Well, it's us!"

There was a hush. "Good Gawd!" said Hunter. Silence ensued; but curiosity soon overcame surprise.

"What did you say, by the by?" asked Gordon.

Tester repeated as far as he could remember the exact words.

"Yes, you know; it was a bit hot, wasn't it? I expect you opened the blighter's eyes a bit.
He wasn't used to that sort of literature."

In spite of themselves Tester and Bradford laughed. They had been vaguely aware of a tired-looking
figure in a Sam Browne as they left the canteen. He had looked "some ass." But Gordon soon
became serious again.

"What are you men going to do? Of course you won't own up."

"We can't very well. I am in the Sixth and Bradford's had one row this term, and of course,
I was the criminal. I am supposed to be a responsible personage."

"Of course, owning up's out of the question."

"But do you think anything will happen?" Bradford was a little frightened. "I mean will there
be a sort of general inspection?"

"You bet there won't. When a master begs men to own up, it means that he's up the spout. It's
much more fun catching a fellow red-handed. And, after all, you two are the last people anyone
would think of."

"Of course, it's all right," said Lovelace; "there's only one thing to do. You talk of nothing
else but this rotten affair; talk about it in the Toe, in the changing-room, in form, in chapel,
if you like. Ask people you meet if they've owned up. Treat the whole thing as a glorious rag."

"Yes," shouted Gordon, "let's go down to Rudd and tell him if he doesn't own up we'll give
him hell."

And in truth the next half-hour was for Rudd very hell of very hell. His existence just now
was not very pleasant. If he had been good at footer all his domestic failings would have been
forgiven him. But he was not; he loathed the game, though at times he would have given anything
to be of some use. Strangely enough, at Oxford he found people respected his brains, and no
one hated him because he could not drop goals from the twenty-five. Life is full of compensations.

Lovelace and Tester were both supreme actors. That night in the dormitory they were full of
the subject. After lights out, they kept the whole place in a roar of laughter. Bradford joined
in a bit, but he was still nervous; visions rose up before him of an officer passing down the
ranks, suddenly seizing him, and saying: "This is the man." It was hardly a ravishing thought;
but it was useless to go back on a lie. Tester realised this. As Ferguson came through he called
out:

"I say, Ferguson, you know you'd better go up to the Chief and tell him you did it."

Ferguson was, like the Boy Scout, always prepared.

"My good man, you don't surely imagine I am so devoid of good feeling and have such a hazy
conception of the higher life as not to inform the Headmaster. I have just returned from breaking
the news to him. He took it quite well on the whole. It was a touching scene. I nearly wept."

Betteridge then arose, and gave an imitation of a Rogers' sermon.

"Well, Ferguson, I must own that I am sorry to lose you. I would give much to retain you here.
But dis aliter visum: you must go. You are expelled. Between the Scylla of over-elation and
the Charybdis of despair you have a long time steered the bark of the School House. But one
failing wipes away many virtues. And we must not discriminate between the doer and the deed,
the actor and the action, the sinner and the sin. The same punishment for all. But in that
paradisal state where suns sink not nor flowers fade, there will be a sweet reunion."

It was pure Rogers. The dormitory rocked with laughter. Tester began to give his impressions
of what the officer must have looked like. There was a heated argument as to whether he was
a parson. Mansell thought not.

"A fellow who knows his Bible well would not be shocked with a little swearing. I bet some
of the bits in Genesis and Samuel are hotter than anything the blighter said. It was probably
some dotard who reads Keats."

This seemed a sound piece of reasoning.

Next day the rumour spread round the school that a half-holiday was going to be stopped, as
no one had owned up.

"Safety," said Tester. "That means the chase is given up."

But the school, which, up to now, had treated the affair as a joke, began to get annoyed. Tolerance
and broadmindedness were all right as long as their own interests were secure; but when it
came to a half-holiday being stopped because some blighter had not the decency to own up----

"It's a scandal," said Fletcher, in front of the House studies. "First this blighter does the
school a lot of harm by swearing; and then he is in too much of a funk to own up, and we get
in a row for it. Man must be a colossal swine."

He forgot that last night he had been treating the whole thing as a joke. Rogers was passing
by up the Headmaster's drive on the way to his class-room, and overheard this outburst of righteous
indignation. His heart was rejoiced to see such a good moral tone in the school. As he said
in the common room: "It makes one proud to see what a sane, unprejudiced view the school takes
of this unsavoury incident."

Lovelace now hit on a great plan. "Let's organise a strike. Why should we go into school to-morrow?
If we can get enough to cut, we can't be punished. Let's canvass."

The fiery cross of rebellion was flung down the study passages. With lists of paper in their
hands, Hunter, Mansell, Lovelace and Gordon (Tester thought himself too big a blood for such
a proceeding) dashed into study after study urging their inhabitants to sign on for the great
strike.

"Come on, you men," Hunter said. "It is the idea of a lifetime. If enough don't turn up, nothing
can happen. You can't sack the whole school."

A few bright rebels like Archie Fletcher signed on at once. Rudd, too, thought it safer to
put his name down. But the average person was more cautious.

"How many have you got down?"

"Oh, about fifteen."

"Well, look here, if you get over fifty I'll join in."

As nearly everyone said this, the hopes of successful operations seemed unlikely.

But still it all helped to disarm any trace of suspicion.

"I say, Ferguson, what do you think of all this?" said Mansell.

"I think a great creed has gone down. I shall no longer believe that conscience and cowardice
are synonymous; only conscience is the trade name of the firm."

Mansell laughed. It was probably meant to be funny. He never quite understood Ferguson. On
the next afternoon everyone sat down to two hours' extra school. There was much swearing at
tea. But in a day or two it was all forgotten.

To this day no one at Fernhurst knows who the two boys were. The secret was well kept.

       *       *       *       *       *

As the term drew to its close, with the Fifteen filled up and all the big matches over, interest
was centred mainly in House football and House affairs. Mansell, it is true, was still worrying
whether he would get his Seconds. But Lovelace and Gordon talked of nothing but the Thirds.
The Colts' matches were over, and on House games one of the two House sides was always a trial
Thirds. Edwards, a heavy, clumsy scrum-half, was captain of the side; Gordon led the scrum.

"If only we had Armour back as House captain," Hunter used to complain, "that side couldn't lose."

"And we sha'n't lose either," said Gordon; "we are going to sweep the field next term, and
we are going to drive the ball over the line somehow, and God save anyone who gets in the light."

No House side ever imagines it is going to be beaten. Three Cocks have been lost by over fifty
points; yet on the morning of the match half the "grovel" would be quite ready to lay heavy
odds on their chance of winning, and whenever there is a good chance of victory, the House
is absolutely cocksure. The result of this is that the House is magnificent in an uphill fight,
but is rather liable to fling away a victory by carelessness.

But this side was certainly "pretty hot stuff." It took a lot to stop Stewart when once he
got the ball, and Lovelace was brilliant in attack. The grovel was light, and was a little
inclined to wing, but in the loose it was a big scoring combination. In the last week of the
term there was a House game on, the Lower v. Buller's. Simonds turned out the Thirds side.
It was a terrific fight. Buller's had two Seconds playing and a House cap; but the House had
had the advantage of having played together. There was, at this time, a good deal of bad blood
between the House and Buller's, and the play was not always quite clean. There was a good deal
of fisting in the scrum. Gordon was in great form; he scored the first try with a long dribble,
and led the pack well. Lovelace dropped a goal from a mark nearly midway between the twenty-five
and the half-way line. Collins scrambled over the corner from a line out. Buller's only scored
once, when Aspinall, their wing three, who had his Seconds, got a decent pass, and ran practically
the whole length of the field. Towards the end, however, the light House grovel got tired and
was penned in its own half. "Come on, House," Gordon yelled. "One more rush; let the swine
have it!" The House was exhausted, it managed to keep Buller's out; but no more. This was an
ominous sign. It had not been a long game.

"The Bull" had been watching the game. As the players trooped off the field, he called back
Gordon. "Caruthers, here a second. You know, I don't want to interfere where it's not my business,
but I don't think you should call another house 'swine.' To begin with, it's not the English
idea of sport, and if there's any ill feeling between two houses in a school, especially the
two biggest, it's not good for the school. Do you see what I mean?"

"Oh yes, sir. I didn't mean----"

"Of course you didn't, my dear chap.... By the way; will you be young enough for the Colts'
next year? You will. Good. Then it won't be at all a bad side. Collins and Foster were quite
good; and you played a really good game."

"What did 'the Bull' want, Caruthers?" Lovelace asked as Gordon walked into the changing-room.

"Oh, nothing much. He didn't like me calling his fellows 'swine.'"

"But why the devil not? They are swine, aren't they?"

"Of course they are; but you can hardly expect 'the Bull' to realise it."

"No, perhaps not; but, my God, they are the last thing in swine, those Hazlitts and their crowd."

The House supper this year was not much, compared with the one of the year before. Simonds
was not an R.D. Lovelace, and Ferguson again spoke miles above his audience. However, he was
a sport, and let them do as they liked; so they drank his health and sang: He's a Jolly Good
Fellow! Several old boys came down, FitzMorris with an eyeglass and a wonderful tie; Sandham,
as usual, quite insignificant; Armour wearing the blue waistcoat of a Wadham drinking club.
Meredith had been expected, but at the last moment he had found his debts so much in excess
of a very generous allowance that he would have to retrench a little. It was a pity; but in
the Bullingdon living is not cheap and Meredith was a great blood.

The prize-giving this term afforded little comfort to Gordon; he was easily bottom of V.A.
Rather a collapse, but still one has to keep up with things. It does not do to lose sight of
the really important issues of life, and Gordon had certainly been a social success. He travelled
up to London with Ferguson and Tester, and felt no small part of a giant when Collins entered
their carriage, suddenly saw Ferguson, and with inaudible apologies vanished quickly down the
corridor. Olympus was not so very far off.

CHAPTER II: HEALTHY PHILISTINISM

During the Christmas holidays there appeared in a certain periodical one of the usual attacks
on the Public School system. It repeated all the old arguments about keeping abreast of the
times, and doing more modern languages and less classics. The writer had nothing new to say,
and, like most other such attacks, his jeremiad was in an hour or two forgotten. But at Fernhurst
it did have some effect, for it gave Henry Trundle the idea of forming a special class for
French enthusiasts. Henry Trundle was one of the French masters. He was entirely English, had
won his Blue for golf at Oxford, and had got a Double First. He also was quite incapable of
teaching anything. His form made no pretence of keeping order; the noise that proceeded from
his class-room could be heard anywhere within a radius of a hundred yards. And yet he was not
a bad fellow; he was a good husband, and his children were very fond of him. His domestic virtues,
however, were sadly lost on Fernhurst, who looked on him as a general buffoon, a hopeless ass.
His class-room was considered a sort of Y.M.C.A. entertainment hall, where there was singing
and dancing, and a mild check on excessive rioting.

At the beginning of the new term the Chief announced that in the upper school one hour every
day would be devoted to the study of either French, maths or Latin. Each boy would choose his
subject. Mr Reddon would superintend the maths, Mr Trundle the French; for Latin each boy would
go to his own form master. To the hard-working, who had prizes before their eyes, this scheme
presented few attractions; as scholars it would not be to their advantage to miss any classical
hours, and French was useless in scholarships. Macdonald, when he took down the names of those
who were to do Latin, found all those in front staying with him, and all those behind going
elsewhere. Macdonald laughed up his sleeve.

Indeed Trundle's class-room was filled with the most arrant collection of frauds that have
ever sat together this side of the Inferno. It was largely a School House gathering. Lovelace
was there; Hunter, Mansell, Gordon, Archie and Collins. Christy's house supplied Dyke, a fine
footballer and a splendid ragger; Claremont's sent two typical dormice in Forbes and Scobie;
Buller's provided no one. Briault hailed from Rogers. It was his boast that he could imitate
any kind of animal from a dog to a hyena. Benson, the only member of Abercrombie's, was entirely
insignificant, and actually did some work for the first two lessons. But it was impossible
to work long in such surroundings; and tales of the extra French set are still told in whispers,
after lights out, in the upper dormitories.

The opening was sensational. No sooner had Trundle taken his seat than Dyke leapt to his feet,
jumped on the desk, jumped off it into the vast paper basket, upset that, charged up to Trundle,
shook him by the hand, and began to pour out words: "My dear sir, how are you? How is Mrs Trundle,
and the little Trundles? Have you had a pleasant Christmas? I have, sir. This, sir, is your
extra French set. The French set--Mr Trundle; Mr Trundle--the French set." Amid a beating of
desks Dyke returned to his seat. Trundle was used to this. But he had rather hoped his new
set would be composed for the most part of honest young scholars. It was a disappointment;
still, he had grown used to it. Life had not been too kind to him.

"Now, let me see," he began, "who's the senior man here?"

Immediately everyone except Benson stood up. "I am, sir."

"But you can't all be the senior."

"Yes, sir; we are," was the unanimous answer.

"You see, sir," Gordon explained, "I am the cleverest and should be the senior, but Mansell
there, that dolt with the tie-pin, has been longer in the school, and he's got his Seconds,
and rather fancies himself. Dyke has taken longer to reach IV. A than anyone else in the school's
history, and thinks that a sufficient claim to be senior. Lovelace, oh, well, he's--well, I
don't know what he is. Lovelace, you swine, what are you?"

"Confound you, man!" shouted the enraged three-quarter. "Who the hell----"

"Lovelace," broke in Trundle, "I think you may keep your reflections on the future life till
afterwards. We will sit in alphabetical order."

It is incredible how long it takes for ten boys to change their places. It was a long process.
Books fell to the right and to the left. There were murmurs of "Damn you, man, that's my grammar!"
or "Confound you, Benson!" "Where the hell is my dictionary?" Twice Benson had been sent flying
into the waste-paper basket; three times had Dyke driven a compass into the backside of Forbes,
who looked like going to sleep. To crown everything, Briault gave his celebrated imitation
of a dog-fight. Consternation reigned. Lovelace tried to hide under Trundle's desk; Gordon
endeavoured to get through a window that was hardly a foot square. Macdonald's class-room was
just the other side of the V. A green; he chuckled to himself. "I hoped Caruthers would enjoy
himself. I think we shall have to put him on to construe when he returns. If he goes to music-hall
shows in school time he must pay for it, you know."

There was an immense scuffling of feet, but much louder rang the noise of the French students.
A question had arisen as to what book they should read that term. Everyone was shouting the
name of his favourite author. "Let's do The Little Thing," yelled Dyke. "No; de Maupassant,"
shouted Mansell, adding, in an undertone: "I saw one of his books in a shop in Villiers Street,
looked pretty hot stuff." Then louder again: "Let's have de Maupassant." "No; The Black Tulip,"
Lovelace implored, and went on in a stage whisper: "Now don't be silly fools, I have got a
crib of this. Have some sense." "You don't imagine we're going to prepare the stuff, do you?"
was Hunter's retort. Above the uproar Forbes' voice drawled: "I say, if there's a French translation
of Five Nights, let's read that. I know the book pretty well by heart."

It was ultimately decided to read six contes by François Coppée; but by the time the decision
had been reached, the hour had been exhausted. Rather sadly Trundle watched the set pour out
into the cloister, shouting and laughing. Even masters have souls. Boys don't realise this.

Every day till the end of the term that farce continued. Sometimes Trundle lost his temper.
One day, Archie was singing: Meet me under the Roses, while Gordon was giving a lively if inaccurate
translation.

"Fletcher, stop that singing!"

"Mayn't I sing, sir?"

"Of course not. This is a class-room."

"Is it, sir? I thought it was a place of amusement."

"Fifty lines, Fletcher."

"But, sir, it is, you know----"

"One hundred lines, Fletcher."

"Really, sir----"

"One hundred and fifty lines, Fletcher."

Fletcher collapsed. Next morning a magnificent blue envelope, sealed at every corner, arrived
at Mr Trundle's house. It contained a vast quantity of blank paper.

"But, sir, I really thought I put in the lines. Hunter, you swine, that is your fault. Sir,
I believe Hunter stole them. He had a big imposition for the Chief. You dirty dog, Hunter.
May I kick him, sir?"

"No; sit down, Fletcher."

The lines were never done.

One day Collins was put on to construe. Of course he had made no attempt to prepare it. This
was at once evident.

"Collins, have you prepared this?"

"No, sir."

"But why not?"

Collins had seen Charley's Aunt in the holidays. "Ah, why?" was his laconic answer.

Trundle foamed with wrath. He snatched a cane from under his desk and advanced on Collins.
The prospective victim leapt back and pointed at him with theatrical calm: "Look, he is coming
at me with cane in hand. Ha! he comes! he comes! see how he comes."

Trundle launched a fierce blow at Collins, and only narrowly missed Benson's eyes. Collins
delivered a short lecture on the danger of losing one's temper. Trundle returned to his desk.

As the term went on the ragging became more elaborate. At first the set was content with giving
a sort of low comedian, knockabout performance. But they soon wearied of such things. After
all, they were real artistes. And Archie Fletcher could not bear being ordinary. But still
there was a good deal of sport to be got out of quite common place manoeuvres. The introduction
of electric snuff, for instance, may not be very original; but it was remarkably successful.

Trundle had a habit of leaving his mark-book in his desk, and Lovelace had a key that fitted
it. The rest was simple. During evening hall Hunter and Lovelace got leave to fetch a book
from their class-room. There was no one about. In five minutes Trundle's mark-book was filled
with snuff. Next morning the set assembled. Forbes was asleep, Benson was furtively looking
up a word in his dictionary, the School House contingent was uncommonly quiet.

"Well," said Trundle, "who shall we start off with this morning? Let me see, ah!" he opened
his mark-book.

The roar of laughter was heard the other side of the court. For a full three minutes Trundle
was utterly, gorgeously prostrate with coughing and sneezing.

Mansell was very sympathetic.

"Have you a cold, sir? I hope it's nothing serious, sir. I find the east wind a little trying
myself. Do you ever use Fletcher's cough lozenges? Very efficacious, sir," he babbled on.

At last Trundle recovered his wind if not his temper. He glowered at the form.

"Fletcher, translate, please."

Fletcher began. But he did not get very far. Hunter let loose another wave of snuff. The whole
form was now coughing and sneezing certainly considerably more than was necessary.

"Next boy who sneezes I shall give a hundred lines to, and report him to the Headmaster."

Temporary peace ensued. It is not pleasant to be sent up to the Chief; and weak masters have
not the slightest scruple in doing so. The strong men need not report. But a man like Archie
could not be kept in order long. He gave vent to a most unpleasant snort.

"Fletcher, if you do that again I shall have to beat you."

A slight pause.

"Please, sir, may I blow my nose if I mayn't sniff?"

"Yes, Fletcher; don't be stupid."

Immediately there rose a chorus of "Mayn't we blow our noses, too, sir? Why should Fletcher
be the only one allowed to. It isn't fair."

Trundle gave way, and the rest of the hour was spent entirely in coughing, shouting and sneezing.
No work was done. But that was no unusual occurrence in the extra French set.

This was, of course, the sort of amusement that could be only indulged in once. It would grow
stale a second time. But Briault's idea of fancy dress was one that presented infinite opportunities
and gave full scope for originality. At first nothing very startling occurred. On a freezing
cold day the whole set would assemble without waistcoats and with their coats wide open would
complain bitterly of the heat; on a warm day they would go in arrayed as for an Antarctic expedition
in wonderful scarves and huge gloves.

"It's disgraceful, sir, how cold this room is," Gordon complained. "I am very sensitive to
cold, and there are two windows open. They must be shut."

"Well, Caruthers, if you find this room too cold," replied Trundle sarcastically, "you may
return to the warmth of your own study and write me out the lesson ten times. Do you prefer that?"

Trundle thought that rather smart, but Gordon was never beaten.

"Sir, I do prefer an unfairly long imposition to an attack of pneumonia," and with that he
sailed out of the room; the "impot" was, of course, never done. Only Benson did things for Trundle.

From this day on to discover a new kind of dress was the aim of Archie's life. What he advised
the form always copied. One day the Chief gave out an order that, owing to the extreme cold,
woollen waistcoats would be allowed, provided they were of a quiet colour. That night Archie
searched the studies. For sixpence he purchased from a new boy a threadbare carpet that had
not been brushed or cleaned for generations. This he cut up into six parts, and each School
House member of the set somehow or other made for himself a waistcoat out of them. Next day,
garbed in these, they rolled sedately to Trundle's, their coats flung open, their hands in
their trouser pockets.

Trundle sat speechless. At last he found words.

"What is the meaning of this confounded impertinence? Collins, Mansell, Caruthers, Hunter,
Lovelace, and you Fletcher, take off that filthy stuff."

"That stuff, sir," drawled out Forbes. "What stuff?"

"Don't interfere, Forbes," rapped out Trundle. "Take them off, I say."

"Oh, do you mean our waistcoats, sir?" asked Hunter, in superbly feigned surprise. "We couldn't
take them off; we should catch a cold. The Headmaster has just given out a notice about them.
He said we could wear them."

"He never gave you permission to garb yourselves in the refuse of the neighbourhood."

"Refuse?" said Forbes. "Those waistcoats are of a most fashionable cut. It's extremely hard
to get that particular brand of cloth; my brother, who is a member of the Bullingdon, told me----"

"I don't want to know anything about your brother, Forbes. Take off those things. The Headmaster
would never allow them."

"But, sir," insisted Archie. "He only said that they must be of a quiet colour, and they are
of a quiet colour, aren't they, sir?"

In truth they were. There was not a trace of colour visible anywhere. Trundle gave in. He murmured
something about asking the Headmaster, and then put on Archie to con. He never asked the Chief;
and there was no need for him to do so. It is not pleasant wearing dust-laden carpets for an
hour. Such jests can only be undertaken at rare intervals.

But the culminating point was not reached till the last Thursday of the term. It was boat-race
day, and the set unanimously backed Oxford. At ten o'clock the set was due to appear. But when
Trundle arrived all he found was Benson, who was in nervous apprehension lest he should have
come to the wrong room. If he had, he might lose some marks; and marks were more to him than
many boundaries. He smiled happily at Trundle.

"Ah, where are the rest, Benson?"

"I don't know, sir."

"Oh, well, I suppose we must wait, but it is a great nuisance. I wanted to finish the book
to-day, it's our last lesson, you know."

The next day was Good Friday.

For ten minutes they sat in silence. It takes a long time to prepare a big rag; the curtain
very seldom goes up punctually on the first night; and there had been no dress rehearsal. There
was a sound of scuffling from the door in the cloister which led into the School House studies.
Then came the tread of measured feet. The door opened, and the great procession entered.

At the head was Gordon in Ferguson's dressing-gown (a great white confection with pale pink
frogs) with a white Colts' cap on his head; he beat time with a small swagger cane. Then came
the trumpeters, Crosbie and Forbes, who were producing strange harmonies on two pipes that
they had bagged from the armoury. Behind them Mansell walked in corps clothes and a Second
Fifteen cap. He was chanting a low dirge. On each side of him marched the choristers, Lovelace
and Hunter, in white sheets and enormous psalters that they had borrowed from the chapel. They
also sang in a strange outlandish tongue. But the pièce de resistance was the banner. It consisted
of a long piece of white calico on which was inscribed in red ink: "Up, Up, Oxford. Down with
the Cantabs." (Trundle hailed from Emmanuel.) It was fastened at each end to a hockey stick,
and Fletcher and Collins bore it in solemnly. In the rear, Briault gave his impressions of
a cow being ill. Dyke was the showman.

"I will now present, gentlemen," he began, "my circus of touring artistes, who are raising
a fund for the endowment of the Oxford boating club. I must beg you all----"

But Trundle cut short the oration. Seizing a cane, he rushed into the cavalcade of Isis, and
smote out full lustily. Pandemonium broke forth. No battle-field was more rich in groans; no
revue chorus produced so much noise. It took a quarter of an hour to obtain quiet. But at last
a motley crowd sat down to study François Coppée.

And then came the dénouement. It was entirely unexpected and entirely unrehearsed. There was
a knock outside. The door opened and an amazing apparition appeared on the threshold. Betteridge
was in the Sixth. Very enviously the night before he had listened to the preparations and plans
of the extra French set; cursing inwardly, he had sat down at ten o'clock to do prose with
the Chief. Faintly across the court were borne the sounds of strife. He groaned within him.
Suddenly the Chief stood up.

"I find I shall have to leave you for a little. Some parents are coming to interview me. I
want you all to return quietly to your studies, and continue the prose there."

Joyfully the Sixth trooped out. Betteridge rushed across the courts to Trundle's class-room.
For a second he listened outside, then a great idea struck him. There was still half-an-hour
left. Madly he tore up to the dormitories. Luckily they were not locked. Five minutes later
he appeared before Mr Henry Trundle entirely changed. He had on a very light brown suit, a
pair of check spats, a rainbow-coloured waistcoat, a heliotrope bow tie; a bowler was balanced
on his head at an angle of forty-five degrees, a camera was slung round his neck, in his hand
he had a notebook and pencil.

"Mr Trundle, I believe," he said. "I am the reporter of The Fernhurst Gazette. We have received
a wire that there has been a great pro-Oxford demonstration in here, and we want to get an
account of it in the stop press news before our sister journal, The Western Evening Transcript.
Can you give me some notes?"

As he stopped, the set, that had remained spellbound, burst into a hilarious shriek of joy.
Everyone heard it; even Claremont woke up and asked what it was. Arthur, the school custos,
talks of it to this day.

And at this point the Chief comes into the story. He was showing the parents in question round
the studies when he heard an uproar proceeding from somewhere near the cloisters. He excused
himself from the parents, ran downstairs, and tracked the noise to Trundle's class-room. He
entered. Never before had he seen disorder on such a generous scale. He looked round.

"Mr Trundle--er--what er--set is this?"

"The extra French set, Headmaster."

The Chief half smiled. He walked out without another word.

Next term there was no extra French set.

The ragging of Trundle, however, was merely regarded relaxation from the serious business of
life. In an Easter term football is the only thing that any respectable man will really worry
about. And Gordon, judged on these grounds, and his friends with him, would most certainly
pass into the most select society circle. The Thirds this year was a terribly perplexing problem.
Simonds had not taken enough trouble with his juniors the term before. This term he was working
hard enough, but it was a bit late in the day to begin. On the first Saturday of the term a
scratch side took sixty-five points off the prospective Thirds side.

"If you play as badly as that on the day you'll lose by forty points," growled Simonds, "and
you'll damned well deserve a beating, too."

"Curse the man," muttered Lovelace. "Whose bloody fault is it but his, I should like to know?
He is a disgrace to the House, working for some rotten scholarship when he ought to be training
on our juniors. Rotten swine."

"Well, he's pretty well all right this term, at any rate," said Gordon. "For the Lord's sake
don't go grousing about; or we sha'n't keep the score under eighty, let alone ninety. If we
lose, we lose; and, my God, we'll make 'em play for it."

The side certainly tried hard, and Simonds did his best, but all the same, on the day of the
match, Buller's were backing their chances of running up a score of over thirty points at three
to one.

"The swine!" said Gordon. "Swanking it about how they are going to lick us to bits. My word,
I would give something to smash them to smithereens. I have taken on a bet with every man in
Buller's whom I found offering long odds. I stand to win quite a lot. And I shall win it."

"God's truth," said Mansell, "do they think there's no guts left in the House at all? They
may go gassing about the number of Colts' badges they have got, but they are not used to our
way of playing. We go for the ball, and if a man's in the light we knock him out of it. School
House footer is not pretty to look at; but it's the real thing, not a sort of nursery affair.
We go in to win."

Just before lunch a typical telegram from Meredith was pinned up on the House board:

    "Go it House. And give them ----"

The blank was left to the imagination. The House remembered Meredith and filled it in accordingly.

Nothing is more horrible than the morning before a first House match. Gordon woke happy and
expectant, but by break he had begun to feel a little shivery, and at lunch-time he was done
to the world. He ate nothing, answered questions in vague monosyllables, and smiled half nervously
at everyone in general. He was suffering from the worst kind of stage fright. And after all,
to play in an important match before the whole school is a fairly terrifying experience. As
he sat trembling in the pavilion, waiting for the whistle to blow, Gordon would have welcomed
any form of death, anything to save him from the ordeal before him. The whistle blew at last.
As he walked out from the pavilion in his magenta-and-black jersey, an unspeakable terror gripped
him; his knees became very weak; his tongue stuck to the roof of his mouth, and then something
seemed to snap in his brain. He walked on quite cheerfully. He was as a spectator. It seemed
that it was not really he, but his ghost that was walking on to the field. Subconsciously he
lined up with the rest. The School side in their white jerseys, the Colts with their red dragons,
seemed miles away. Collins kicked off. Gordon did not know he was playing. A roar of "House"
rose from the touch-line. Involuntarily he joined it, thinking himself a looker-on, then suddenly
Livingstone, the Buller's inside three-quarter, caught the ball and ran towards him. At once
Gordon was himself. He forgot the crowd on the touch-line, forgot his nervousness, forgot everything
except that he was playing for the House, and somehow or other had to drive the ball over that
line. He crashed into Livingstone, and the pair rolled into touch. A cheer rippled down the
line. Gordon did not hear it.

The Fernhurstian described this match as "perhaps the finest ever witnessed on the School ground,"
and the reporter was not far wrong. Certainly that first mad rush of the House forwards was
the most glorious moment in Gordon's football career. It was all so unexpected, so essentially
wonderful. On the touch-line Mansell shouted himself hoarse. The cries of "House" completely
drowned those of "School." For the first quarter of an hour the School pack never got the ball
out of their half. It seemed that the House must score. Time after time, the School were forced
to touch down. Stewart was brought down just the wrong side of the line. Lovelace performed
prodigies of valour. A gloom descended over Buller's. On the Masters' side of the line "the
Bull" fumed and ground his teeth: "Go low, Reice, you stinking little funk. Get round, forwards,
and shove; you are slacking, the lot of you. Buck up, Philson." Up and down he stamped, cursing
at his men. Lovelace could hardly refrain from laughing.

"Now, lads," shouted Stewart, "fair or foul; shove the ball over the line!" Like a sledge-hammer
Gordon crashed into the scrum. Wilkinson was in his light, but Gordon was seeing red, his feet
stamped on Wilkinson, and found the ball. His elbows swung viciously, as he cut his way through
the scrum. Then someone caught him by the ankle. He went down hard. A boot caught him on the
side of the head. He got up blind with wrath. "Fight! Fight!" he yelled. The House grovel swarmed
in; the outhouse pack shivered for a moment, then gave way. Collins and Gordon burst through,
the ball at their toes; Wilkinson dashed across and dived for the ball; he clawed it for a
second, Gordon's feet smashed it from his hands, and Collins steered it past the back, and
kicked it just over the line and fell on top of it.

From the touch-line there burst a roar that must have been heard five miles away. "Well done,
laddie!" bawled Mansell. Even Ferguson waved his stick in the air. It was a great moment.

As the School lined up behind their line, "the Bull" strode behind them. "What are you doing?
Put some life into your game. Buck up, all of you; it is a filthy show. Guts!"

Lovelace took the kick. It was far out: the ball hardly rose from the ground. In a state of
feverish panic Livingstone dropped out. For a second or two the School pressed. But it was
impossible to withstand the wild attack of the House for long. Collins, elated by his success,
brought off a magnificent dribble, and was forced into touch only a few yards from the line.
Half-time was not far off. And the House struggled fiercely to get over the line once more.
Up and down between the goal line and the twenty-five the two scrums fought. It seemed only
a matter of time for another try to send the House across with a lead of six points; but there
is as much luck in rugger as in any game. The House had heeled perfectly, Foster cut past one
man, and passed out to Richards. A roar of "House!" went up. A try was imminent, Richards passed
to Lovelace. But Livingstone was one of those three-quarters who will miss an easy kick one
minute and bring off a superb collar the next. As Richards passed, he dashed between him and
Lovelace, intercepted the pass, and raced up the field. Collins caught him only a foot away
from the line, and from the line out Grienburg, a heavy Buller forward, caught the ball and
fell over the line by the flag, just as the whistle was about to blow for half-time. It was
very far out, and the kick failed. The sides crossed over 3-3.

Simonds came on during the interval almost incoherent with excitement. "Splendid, you fellows!
Magnificent! Never saw anything like it. Stick to it and you're bound to win. Simply putrid
luck that last try ... keep it up!"

On the touch-line there was no doubt as to the final result. "We shall walk away with the Cup,"
said Mansell, and in a far corner Jones-Evans was laying ten to one on the House in muffins.
But a bit of good luck is capable of making a side play in a totally different spirit, and
the combined Buller's and Claremont's side started off like a whirlwind. Livingstone kicked
off, and the outhouse scrum was on the ball in a minute. For a second the House pack was swept
off its feet, and during that second Fitzgerald had dribbled to within ten yards of the line.
Foster made a splendid effort to stay the rush, and flung himself on the very feet of the opposing
forwards. But the check was only momentary; the forwards rolled on, and it was only on the
very line that Lovelace rushed across, and falling on the ball, held it to him, till the House
forwards had time to come round. But the rules lay down that a player, as soon as he has fallen
on the ball, must get off it at once. Lovelace realised that if he did so, a try would be inevitable.
He hung on like grim death, praying that the referee would not see. Before half the House forwards
had formed round, the whistle blew.

"Free kick to the School. You musn't lie on the ball like that, Lovelace." The referee was
not blind.

Anxiously the House lined up and waited for the kick. Livingstone had converted nearly every
goal on the Colts' games the term before. It was a trying moment. He seemed to take hours placing
the ball correctly. There was an absolute hush as he ran up; then a great sigh, half of relief,
half of disappointment, burst from the touch-line. The ball rose hardly six feet from the ground,
and sailed harmlessly towards the School House line. And then Turner made a mistake that he
cursed himself for ever afterwards. All that was necessary to do was to let the ball bounce,
and then touch down. But as the ball sailed towards him, Turner was suddenly possessed with
the longing to do something brilliant. He was last man on the list, and had only been put into
the side at the last moment, owing to another forward stopping out. It was not unnatural. He
caught the ball.

"You blasted fool," yelled out Richards, "for God's sake find touch."

Turner lost his head. He gave a mild punt down field, and before the House had realised what
was happening, Wilkinson had caught the ball, and dashed over the line between the posts. This
time Livingstone made no mistake. 8-3.

For the next five minutes the House side was entirely demoralised. Nothing went right. The
forwards did not keep together. Gordon cursed foully, and only made matters worse. Lovelace's
kicks only found touch a few feet down the line. Richards rushed up and down fuming, and upset
everyone. It was due only to a miracle and some fine work by Foster that the School did not
score at least three times. Foster did everything during those awful minutes. Rush after rush
he stopped, just as Fitzgerald was looking dangerous, and he brought down his fly-half every
time. Gordon was amazed at his performance; he had always rather looked down on him before.
He had never imagined he was so plucky.

But it takes more than two unexpected tries to throw a School House side off its balance for
long. Soon the forwards began to reassert themselves. Burgess the wing three-quarter, a self-satisfied
member of Buller's, who was in VI. B, and whose conceit far excelled his performances, got
away and began to look dangerous. But Gordon came up behind him. He loathed Burgess, and flinging
aside all the Fernhurst traditions about collaring low, he leapt in the air, and crashed on
top of him. Burgess collapsed like paper. A great howl went up from the School House. New life
seemed to enter into the side. The grovel flocked round, and Collins, heaving Burgess off the
ball with a flying kick, dribbled the ball to the half-way line. A scrum formed up and from
the heel Richards got the ball to Lovelace, who broke through the defence and with a clear
field ahead made for the line.

"Run like hell!" shouted Simonds from the touch-line. He was standing on the masters' side
of the ground, just in front of the Chief's wife. But he was past caring about social etiquette.
All he wanted was to see the House ahead once more. "Faster, man, run--oh, damn!"

Just on the line the ubiquitous Livingstone caught him up, and the pair rolled into touch.
If, as some say, there is nothing much finer to watch in football than an uphill fight, then
the Thirds of 1913 was most certainly the greatest game ever played on the Lower. Lighter and
slower than their opponents, the House kept them on the defensive for the rest of the afternoon.
Collins was a splendid sight, his hair fell in a cascade over his eyes, his nose was bleeding,
his jersey was torn half off his back, but he did not care. His feet were everywhere, and anyone
who got in his light was sorry for it. Turner, with the thought that he was the cause of Wilkinson's
try, fought heroically. Once when Williamson, a Claremont's forward, began to dribble, he rushed
into him sideways and with a "soccerbarge" knocked him flying into touch, and took the ball
back inside the twenty-five. It was a great fight. But no one can strive successfully against
the will of the gods, and certainly the stars in their courses fought against the House. Ten
minutes before time Livingstone, who had been systematically starved the whole game, got a
pass about the half-way line. He was the fastest man in the field. No one could touch him;
he made straight for the corner flag, and scored amid the tumultuous applause of Buller's.
There could be no doubt about the result now. Before the eyes of Jones-Evans there rose a prospect
of eternally treating outhouse men to muffins. Mansell swore violently. "The Bull" walked up
and down the touch-line beaming with delight. Simonds was silent.

"Well, you men," said Richards, "we've been beaten, but by heaven we'll shove them the last
few minutes. Go for them, tooth and nail."

The House did so. In hall that night Burgess announced that there was not a single gentleman
in the School House, a remark which resulted in a rather unpleasant half-hour with "the Bull"
two days later. For these last minutes produced one of the most glorious charges of the day.
From the twenty-five right in to the School half, the ball was carried. Nothing could stop
that wild rush. Livingstone and Wilkinson went down before it, but they were passed by. Burgess
made a half-hearted attempt to fall on the ball, but did not get up for several seconds, and
the House was well in the School half when Gordon kicked a little too hard and the School back,
fielding the ball, managed to find touch. But the House was still undaunted. From the line
out, the ball was flung to Richards, who, putting his head down, literally fought his way through
the scrum and tottered out the other side. He handed off Wilkinson, dodged the fly-half, and
made for the centre of the ground. Livingstone came across at him. "With you, Richards," yelled
Lovelace.

As Livingstone brought Richards crashing to the ground, the ball was safely in Lovelace's hands.
Lovelace was about half-way between mid-field and the twenty-five. He ran a few yards, steadied
himself, and took a drop.

In deadly silence the School watched the flight of the ball. It sailed high and straight towards
the goal. "It's over," murmured the Chief excitedly. But as the ball neared the posts it travelled
slower, a slight breeze caught it, blew it over to the right. It hit the right post and fell
back into play. As the full-back returned it to mid-field the whistle blew for no-side.

"School, three cheers for the House!" shouted Livingstone.

"House, three cheers for the School!" responded Richards.

And then everyone poured over the ropes on to the field.

"Never mind, you men," said Simonds; "it was a damned fine show and better than fifty wins."

The House was proud of its side. As the Fifteen trooped across the courts on the way to the
changing-room the House lined up by the chains of the Sixth Form green, and cheered them.

"Well played, Caruthers!" shouted someone.

It was Gordon's first taste of real success.

That night there was a big feed in No. 19. They were all out of training for three days; and
they made the most of it. During the last fortnight they had been allowed only fruit between meals.

"It's the finest performance since I've been in the House," Mansell declared. "Meredith's Two
Cock wasn't in it. Their side was twice as strong on paper, and my Lord, we gave it them."

"Yes," said Lovelace, "and you wait till this side is the Three Cock; there'll be a bit of
a change then."

"You're right there," shouted Mansell. "We sha'n't pull it off this year, nor the year after
that; but you wait and see what'll happen in 1915. That's the year when the House will revive
the great days of Ross. My lads, we sha'n't regret the lean years when the years of plenty
come; and the Three Cock Cup is back on the old oak sideboard. Our day will come."

That night Gordon dreamt of the great future that was opening out for the House; and he was
thankful that he would see it. Like the runners in the torch race many would have prepared
the way for victory; but it was to him and his friends that the glory of the final triumph
would belong. For he would win the race: he would carry home the torch.

CHAPTER III: TIN GODS

After this match a new phase in Gordon's life may be said to have begun. He had for the first
time felt what it was to be really successful. When he had got his Colts' cap the world had
seemed at his feet; but it was nothing to what he experienced now. For he had borne the brunt
of the House's battle. He had played a principal part in a wonderful achievement. The House
looked on him as one of its chosen defenders. He was in the limelight, and he had no intention
of ever drifting out of it. When we have experienced the really great, the things that pleased
once charm no more. After basking in the blaze of a summer afternoon there is something poignantly
pathetic in watching the amber beams of a December sun filter through the trees. Gordon had
his fingers on the pedestal of fame, and he intended never to loose his grasp. His position
had been obtained by brilliant football, and if he had been able to retain it in the same way
all would have been well. But the gods willed it otherwise.

It was generally admitted that the House stood no chance of winning the Two Cock, and when
the House agreed on its own defeat, prospects were certainly very gloomy. So Gordon only interested
himself in his own performances. He began to wonder if there was any chance of his getting
a place in the Three Cock. Simonds was undoubtedly pleased with him, and Henry, the only forward
senior to him, had been doing rather badly lately. In the trial games he played with a mad
enthusiasm. On the Friday evening the Two Cock side was posted. He was above Lovelace and Richards.
Henry was only one above him.

Just before lunch on the day of the match Mansell came up to him.

"I say, I have got some good news for you."

"What is it?" Gordon was feverish with impatience.

"Well, I don't think I had better tell you."

"Oh, I say, do; don't be a swine."

"No, I don't think I shall; it would make you too bucked with life." Mansell smiled at him
kindly. Gordon was rather annoyed.

But on the way down to hall, he overheard Mansell talking to Tester in the door of the changing-room.

"Simonds is going to play Caruthers in the Three Cock instead of Henry, if he plays at all
decently to-day," Mansell was saying.

"Oh, I am glad of that," Tester answered. "He's a good kid."

The earth swayed dizzily as Gordon made his way down to hall. He did not feel at all nervous.
He was quite certain of himself. The day was bound to end with him a member of the House Fifteen.
All he had to do was to play his average game. Mansell had said so.

As he stepped on to the field, he was perfectly aware of his own personality. He did not feel
a sort of spectator, as he had done in the Thirds. It was all so clear. He even smiled at Tester
as he lined up.

But a Two Cock is very different from a Thirds. Men from Christy's were playing who were shining
lights on Senior Leagues, and who would easily have got their Seconds if they had tried, but
who, because they were in Christy's, did not take the trouble. Christy's should have beaten
Buller's, but they were too slack to go into proper training, and in spite of the brilliance
of Dyke and Pemberton, Buller's won by six points after being ten points behind at half-time.
As individuals, however, Christy's were a formidable lot, and when combined with Buller's formed
a much heavier and larger side than any Gordon had played against before. He was not very large,
and was used to Junior Leagues. For an hour he was swept off his feet. He could not keep pace
with the game. He was flung from one position into another; he followed after the scrum; he
felt like a new boy playing for the first time. At half-time Simonds came up thoroughly fed
up with life. The score was fifteen-nothing.

"For heaven's sake, Caruthers, get in and shove, if you can't do anything better. You haven't
done a thing the whole game."

The game was a nightmare. Mansell looked at him curiously that evening at tea.

Gordon muttered something about a kick on the head, and being unable to see anything.

On Sunday evening a list of those in training for the Three Cock was put up. There were ten
forwards down. Gordon was bottom on the list; both Henry and Collins were above him. In the
football world his claim to fame for the moment faded away. If he was to remain in the public
gaze, he would have to attract attention some other way.

And so, at the most critical point in the development of his character, Gordon began all unconsciously
to seek for new ways of making himself conspicuous. He did not know what he was doing. If someone
had told him that he was doing absurd things merely to get talked about, he would have laughed.
But all the same, it would have been true. His preparatory schoolmaster said of him once: "There
is some danger of his becoming the school buffoon." At his prep, the boys were too closely
looked after and kept down for any one person to become pre-eminent at anything. And so a subconscious
love of notoriety drove Gordon on to play the fool for a whole term most damnably.

It was during the end of the Easter and the whole of the summer term that Gordon earned a reputation
for reckless bravado and disregard of all authority that stuck to him through his whole career.
Up till now he had done things merely because he had wanted to. He followed the inclination
of the moment, but now it was different. It is pleasant to be talked of as a mixture between
Don Juan and Puck; and Gordon was sufficiently good at games to make himself an attractive
and not a repulsive figure. The Public School boy admires the Meredith type; he despises the
man who is no good at games, and who plays fast and loose in his house. Gordon was not unpopular,
and indeed some of his escapades were really funny, as, for instance, when he cut through the
string of the chapel organ on which a weight is attached to show whether the organ is full
of air or not. The next morning in chapel the choir began but the organ was mute. The hymn
broke off into a miserable wail. The whole service was one silent ripple of merriment. Rogers
was taking the service, and was quite at sea without the help of music. Gordon earned a considerable
measure of notoriety for the performance. On his way to the tuck shop, Ben, the captain of
the Fifteen, came up and spoke to him.

"Caruthers, I say, are you the man who made the organ mute?"

"Yes."

"By Jove, you are a sportsman."

Gordon was thus encouraged to continue on his road to buffoonery, and when the summer term
came, he found no reason to pursue any other course. On the cricket field he could not get
a run; first he hit wildly, then he began to poke; but all without the least success. After
a few weeks he almost ceased to try, except in House matches. "The Bull" got furious.

"Look here, Caruthers," he said, "I don't know if you are slack, or merely incompetent. But
when I see you make fifty against my house in a Junior House match, and then play inside half-volleys
on the upper, I begin to think all you care about is your house. Don't you care for Fernhurst,
boy?"

Gordon was genuinely worried about this. He admired "the Bull" immensely: indeed, "the Bull"
was about the only person at Fernhurst whose opinion he valued at all. He made strenuous efforts
to get runs, but it was no use. He was clean out of form. His fifty v. Buller's was his only
score during the season, but "the Bull" did not know this. He thought Caruthers tried for his
house and slacked with the Colts. The climax was reached during the Milton Match. Gordon went
in first with Foster. In five minutes he and Lovelace and a man from Claremont's were out for
four runs. "The Bull" chewed grass in a far corner of the field.

And then, to crown everything, Gordon missed the easiest of catches. He caught Lovelace's eye.
It was really rather funny. The two of them burst into sudden laughter. Lovelace was nearly
doubled up. "The Bull" thought they were laughing at him.

"I can't think what's gone wrong with Caruthers this term," he said to Fry, the captain of
the School House. "He was so promising once; he doesn't seem to be trying this term."

Next day Gordon was left out of the Colts' side. The day after the chair in Trundle's class-room
suddenly collapsed. The leg had been sawn half through, and Trundle fell over on the floor.

Gordon was riding for a fall, and two days before Commemoration, to use his own phrase, he
"fairly put his foot in it." This term he had a double dormitory with one Davenport, a scholar
who was a year junior to Gordon; but was in the same form. The Chief had thought Gordon a bit
big for the Nursery, but there was no room for him down below; so he and Davenport lived at
the end of the passage in glorious isolation. It was a great luxury; they were allowed several
privileges; they could keep their light on till ten; they could go to bed when they liked,
and it was here that they usually did their preparation. Davenport, however, suddenly contracted
measles; and Gordon, who had grown too slack to do his work alone, used to get leave for Sydenham,
a rather insignificant, self-righteous member of V. A, who had come a term before him, to come
and prepare his work in the double room. Leave was always granted, and when Davenport returned,
the scheme was still continued. On this particular night, Davenport had got a headache. He
said he was going to stop out next day, and refused to prepare Thucydides. It also happened
that the House tutor was away that night, and so the Chief went round the dormitories, putting
out the lights. He did not know of the custom by which Sydenham came up to do the con. He was
not very pleased, but after a little hesitation gave leave. The door was shut. Sydenham perched
himself on the chest of drawers, Gordon produced an aid to quick translation, Davenport turned
over the pages of Nash's. The Abbey bells also happened to be ringing that night. It was quite
impossible to hear any normal sound down the passage; and so Gordon was quite unaware of the
Chief's intention to revisit them and see if they were really working, till the door opened
and the Chief walked in. Gordon lost his head; he sat up in bed and gaped. Thucydides lay on
one side of the bed, the crib on the other.

The Chief picked up the book.

"Ah, does Mr Macdonald allow you to use this?"

In the really dramatic moments of our lives it is always the inane that first suggests itself.
It was so likely that Macdonald would have given them permission.

"No, sir."

"Er, Davenport, are you preparing--er yes, Thucydides with Caruthers, too?"

"No, sir." Davenport thanked heaven that he had a headache. He had helped in the work of deceit
every night the whole term. The Chief thought he must be a boy of strong moral courage; and
in many ways he was, but cribbing, after all, was part of the daily routine.

The Chief took up the book.

"Sydenham, go back to your study."

He turned down the light and went out. His footsteps died out down the passage.

"Damn!" said Gordon.

"In excelsis gloria," said Davenport.

"And it was a rotten crib, too," said Gordon.

By next morning the story was all round the school.

"You will be birched for certain," was Tester's cheerful comment, "and serve you right for
getting caught."

"I sha'n't be such a fool again," growled Caruthers.

And certainly he profited by his experience. A year later the House Tutor came into his study
when he was preparing Vergil with the aid of Dr Giles' text. He put a piece of blotting-paper
over the crib, and chatted for a few minutes quite easily about the chances of the Eleven v.
Tonford.

But when we are in trouble, there are few of us who can see so far ahead as to feel thankful
at the thought that we have learnt something that will be a help to us in the future. Gordon
was thoroughly fed up. But it was not his game to show his feelings. He went about laughing
as though nothing had happened at all; he treated the whole thing as a colossal joke. Sydenham
was, however, very nervous, and showed it. Gordon ragged him mercilessly.

"My good man, what the hell does it matter? Chief's not much of a bircher, and don't gas about
disgrace, and such muck. This isn't a St Winifred's sort of school. It will only mean a bad
report."

In School that day Gordon was in great form. By the end of the morning he had accumulated in
all three hundred lines from various sources for ragging.

"That man, Caruthers, is some fellow," said Ferguson to Simonds at lunch. "He looks as if he
enjoyed being in rows."

"Perhaps he does," was the answer. "He is certainly always doing his best to get into them.
But he is in for a birching this time."

But Simonds was wrong. The Chief was too utterly fed up to do anything; moreover, he saw that
a birching would do Gordon no good. He would only boast about it.

It was not until a week later that Gordon was called up before the Chief.

"Caruthers, I want to know where you got hold of that crib."

As a matter of fact he had obtained it by means of Rudd, who had a large stock of such articles,
and let them out on loan for the term. It was a paying business. Gordon, of course, could not
divulge this.

"I got it in the holidays, sir."

The Chief was surprised and shocked at this. He could quite easily understood that a boy should
buy a crib at some second-hand bookshop in the town, during term time, when surrounded with
the general atmosphere of Public School dishonesty; but it did seem unnatural that a boy, while
living in the clean surroundings of his home, should be scheming to cheat his fellows and masters.
The Chief said as much; Gordon did not quite follow him. Besides everyone cribbed.

"What I can't understand, Caruthers," the Chief went on, "is that you always assume a tremendous
keenness on the School and House, of which you give absolutely no proof in your actions except
on the field. This is the second time I have had to speak to you on this subject. Do you imagine
that the good reputation of the House depends solely on its performance in the Thirds, or that
of the School on its number of victories in School matches?"

Gordon thought it did. But he knew that "Yes" was hardly the answer the Chief expected. He
held his peace. It was no use arguing the subject.

When he came out of the study, he met Rudd palpitating with funk.

"You didn't say anything about my lending you that crib, did you?" Rudd was very frightened
of the Chief.

"Of course not, you bloody-looking fool. The best thing you can do is to go and get me a better
crib with all possible speed, my friend. And mind it's a decent one. The last one was rotten;
and I can't do without one. I was bottled yesterday."

In three days Rudd's agent from town had procured him a fine edition of the Sicilian expedition.
Davenport and Gordon did some superb construe during the remainder of the term.

It is, of course, very easy to run down any existing system; and the Public School system has
come in for its fair share of abuse. Yet it must be remembered that no one has yet been able
to devise a better. And after all, for the average man it is not such a bad training. It is
inclined to destroy individuality, to turn out a fixed pattern; it wishes to take everyone,
no matter what his tastes or ideas may be, and make him conform to its own ideals. In the process,
much good is destroyed, for the Public School man is slack, easy-going, tolerant, is not easily
upset by scruples, laughs at good things, smiles at bad, yet he is a fine follower. He has
learnt to do what he is told; he takes life as he sees it and is content. So far so good. With
the average individual the system is not so very unsatisfactory.

But take the case of the boy who has it in him to be a leader, who is not merely content to
follow, but wishes to be at the head, in the forefront of the battle. What of him? Gordon went
to Fernhurst with the determination to excel, and at once was brought face to face with the
fact that success lay in a blind worship at the shrine of the god of Athleticism. Honesty,
virtue, moral determination--these mattered not at all. The author of Eric and such others
who have never faced, really faced, life and seen what it is, talk of the incalculable good
one boy can do, who refuses to be led astray by temptations, and remains true to the ideals
he learnt in the nursery. If there does come into any school such a boy, he is merely labelled
as "pi," and taken no notice of. He who wishes to get to the front has to strive after success
on the field, and success on the field alone. This is the way that the future leaders of England
are being trained to take their proper place in the national struggle for a right and far-sighted
civilisation. On this alone the system stands condemned. For the history of a nation is the
history of its great men, and the one object of the Public School is to produce not great men,
but a satisfactory type.

Gordon found that, as soon as he was recognised as a coming athlete, popularity was his, and
that on the strength of his physical abilities he could do pretty well what he liked. For there
is no strong feeling in schools on the subject of honesty and morality. And it is not unnatural
that a boy, finding that no one will object if he follows the call of pleasure, drifts with
the stream. And then Gordon went off suddenly at games, as the best athlete must at some time
or other. Like many others, he loved popularity and fame. So, in order to keep in the limelight,
he flung aside all pretences of conscience, and got the reputation of being "the devil of a
sport"--a reputation that is a passport to Public School society, but is damning to any man's
character. Only a few realise this. Betteridge was one. He was not an athlete, but was clever
and in the Sixth. He enjoyed a rag, but saw the difference between liberty and licence. He
was a freethinker, and saw life with a wide vision that embraced the whole horizon.

"Look here, Caruthers," he said one evening, during hall, in the last half of the summer term,
"I don't want to say anything; but you know you are making a most awful ass of yourself."

"What do you mean?"

"You know quite well what I mean. I don't think it's your fault; it is the fault of this rotten
system under which we live. You are not what you were when you first came. Of course, it is
natural to crib and fool about, but you are going a bit far. One day you will be captain of
this House. You'll be sorry then."

"Oh, don't be a damned ass, Betteridge, preaching to me. I know what I am doing. It's not long
that I shall have to enjoy myself. I shall be in the Sixth soon, and shall have to slow down
then. But at present I shall do damned well what I like. After all, what does it matter if
I do rot all day and muck about generally? It makes no difference to you or the House. It's
my own damned business, and besides, everyone else does it!"

It was useless to reason with him. The argument that "others do it" is impossible to combat.
And, after all, environment is what counts, and it is a fairly dangerous environment with which
to surround any but the average sensual being who eats, drinks, laughs and is merry, and never
thinks at all. And yet masters are surprised when they find the big man whom they thought impregnable
following the accepted customs. They say: "What a pity! A fine fellow gone to the dogs, and
after all we've done for him, too!" and yet whose fault is it?

But this is by the wayside. For better or for worse the character of Gordon Caruthers was developing
on its own lines. Criticism should be withheld till the last threads are woven, and we can
judge of the complex whole.

       *       *       *       *       *

The summer term was drawing to a close. It had not been very successful as far as Gordon was
concerned. His cricket had frankly been a failure, and the prominence he had gained in his
House hardly compensated for the misgivings with which the Chief and Buller regarded his future.
It seemed as if he could not help running up against "the Bull."

A-K was knocked out of the Senior House competition at once. They drew Christy's and were beaten
by an innings. Gordon made eleven and fifteen, and was missed three times while making them.
Foster, however, got a very sturdy thirty-three not out, and took three wickets. He got his
House cap. Gordon was furious, and swore that he was jolly well not going to try any more that
term.

During the final senior he was strolling round the field with Tester, both of them in cloth
suits, unchanged for games. "The Bull" came up behind them.

"Caruthers, why aren't you changed this afternoon?"

"Well sir, we only had a House game this afternoon, so Tester and I got leave off to watch
the match."

"But your House is not playing in it."

"No, sir."

"Well, then, what on earth do you mean by slacking about the field like this? It's your duty
to be training yourself too, so that some day you may be of some use to Fernhurst, and here
are you slacking about, instead of asking the pro. to give you a net. Slackness! filthy slackness!
I don't know what's wrong with you this term; you were quite keen once."

He strolled off, scratching the back of his head. "The Bull" always did this when in a bad temper.

"Poor old chap," murmured Tester, "he takes these little things so much to heart. He loathes
me because I don't sweat myself to death all day at the nets. He never said anything to me;
he has given me up as a bad job. Poor old chap!"

"Well, I suppose we ought to have been at the nets," said Gordon.

"If we did everything that we ought to do in this world, we should never have a moment's time
to do the things we liked."

"I suppose so," said Gordon, "but still, you know--oh, well, what the hell does it matter?
By Jove, well hit, Dyke!"

The conversation turned again to the match.

Next term Gordon had arranged to have a study with Lovelace. Tester was going to be a prefect,
and wanted to himself the big upstairs study that Clarke had had. Gordon was staying in No. 1.

He was not sorry. He did not quite understand Tester; he was too clever, and Gordon never knew
exactly what he was driving at. Lovelace, on the other hand, was his best friend; they had
played together in several sides, and next term Lovelace would captain the footer Colts. The
future seemed very roseate. Moreover, he was certain to get into the Sixth, and that meant
many privileges. He did not have to attend rolls, he could be late for tea, there was no need
for him to get leave to speak to anyone in hall. It meant many study hours, and it would also
bring him into contact with the Olympians. There was Garter, who had been in the Sixth four
terms, and was in the Second Fifteen. He would meet Betteridge. There was Rudd to rag. Prothero
had reduced his time-table to one hour in school a day, and was an authority to consult on
any subject regarding avoiding work. Davenport would be promoted, too. Gordon's day of power
was beginning to dawn. Next term he would be distinctly a House blood. It was a ravishing thought.

One evening in exam. week Hunter announced casually after tea: "I say, do you remember Betteridge
talking once about a man called Ferrers? Well, he is coming here as a master next term."

"Oh, Lord, is he really?" said Fletcher. "I suppose he will be full of rotten new theories,
and he will probably want to make us work."

"Well, I always give a master a good fortnight's trial before I do any work for him," said
Tester; "at the end of that, I usually find his keenness has worn off. I bet he will be the
same as all the rest."

"I doubt it," said Betteridge; "he is a man."

"Well, whatever he is, he is going to have no effect on me," said Gordon, with a finality that
quite closed the question.

CHAPTER IV: THROUGH A GLASS DARKLY

As often as not, it is mere chance that provides the most essentially important moments in
our lives. It is easy to talk of the inevitable march of Fate, but more usually a chance word
or look alters our entire outlook on life. And so it was that the course of Gordon's whole
career was suddenly changed into a different channel, at a moment when he was drifting placidly
on the stream of a lax conventionality, and was frittering away all his opportunities for sheer
lack of anything that would spur him on to a clearer conception of what life means.

During the whole of the term, Tester and Gordon had done their early morning preparation on
the V. A green. As they had answered their names at roll, they would take out deck-chairs and
cushions and luxuriously pass the three quarters of an hour before breakfast reclining back,
putting the finishing touches to the evening's work. It is a very beautiful spot, the V. A
green. On three sides it is flanked with buildings; on the fourth is a low wall, which is used
as an exit for nocturnal expeditions. It was under the V. A class-room that Gordon and Tester
put their chairs. Opposite them was the grey library; beyond rose the Abbey, solemn and austere;
on the left was the chapel and the long cloister leading to big school. In the early morning
a great hush pervaded the place. The only sound was the faint tolling of the Almshouse bell.
Between the Abbey and the library the sun rose in a blaze of glory.

On the last morning of the term Gordon and Tester lolled back in their comfortable chairs.
Gordon was trying to learn his rep. for the exam. that morning. Tester was reading The Oxford
Book of English Verse; the exams for the Sixth were over.

"Oh, damn this," said Gordon. "I can't learn the stuff."

He flung the book down, and lay back watching the first rays of the sun flicker on the cold
bronze of the Abbey.

"This has been a rotten term, you know," he said at last.

"Yes?" said Tester. He was engrossed in poetry.

"Well, I got into the deuce of a row with Chief, and I never got my House cap, and I've broken
it off with Jackson."

Tester put down his book and sat up.

"Caruthers, you know you are wasting your time. Here are you with all your brilliance and your
personality worrying only about House caps and petty intrigues, and little things like that.
What you want to realise is that there is something beyond the aim of a Fernhurst career. You
are clever enough; but poetry and art mean nothing to you."

"Oh poetry, that's all right for Claremont and asses like that, but what's the use of it?"

"Oh, use, use! Nothing but this eternal cry about the use of a thing. Poetry is the sort of
beacon-light of man. What's wrong with you is that you've read the wrong stuff. It is all very
well for a middle-aged man to worship Wordsworth and calm philosophy. But youth wants colour,
life, passion, the poetry of revolt. Now look here, let me read you this, and then tell me
what you think of it."

"Oh, all right. Is it long?"

"No, not very."

In a low, clear voice, Tester began to read the great spring Chorus in Atalanta, into which
Swinburne has crowded all that he ever knew of joy and happiness. In everyone there lies the
love of beauty--"we needs must love the highest when we see it"--but the pity is that so few
of us are ever brought face to face with the really lovely, or perhaps, if we are, we come
to it too late. Our power of appreciation has lain too long dormant ever to be aroused. And
at school it is the common thing for boys to pass through their six years' traffic without
ever realising what beauty is. They are told to read Vergil, Tennyson and Browning, the philosophers,
the comforters of old age, poets who "had for weary feet the gift of rest." But boys never
hear of Byron, Swinburne and Rossetti, men with big flaming hearts that cried for physical
beauty and the loveliness of tangible things. As a result they drift out into the world, to
take their place with the dull, commonplace Philistine who has made the House of Commons what
it is.

But as Gordon heard Tester reading the wonderful riot of melody, which conjures up visions
of rainbows, and far-receding sunsets, of dew gleaming like crystals in the morning, of water
gliding like forgotten songs, a strange peace descended on him. He had not known that there
could be anything so intensely beautiful. Over the great Abbey the sun was rising heavenwards;
down the street past the Almshouses he heard the happy sound of a young girl laughing. The
world was full of strange new things; there was a new meaning in the song of the blackbird,
in the rustle of the leaves, in the whispering of the warm wind. And suddenly there came over
him a sensation of how far he himself was below the splendour of it all. He had walked through
life with blinded eyes; with dulled senses he had stared at the ground, while all the time
the great ideal of beauty was shining from the blue mountains of man's desire.

Tester had finished reading.

"Well what do you think of it?"

"Oh, it's wonderful. I never dreamt of such music."

"Yes, you see, masters grow old; they forget what it was like to be young; they want us to
look at life through their spectacles, and, of course, we can't. Youth and age is an impossible
combination; we have to cut a way for ourselves, Caruthers, sometimes we fail, sometimes we
succeed. I've made a pretty fair mess of things, because I have gone on my own way; because
I have had no one to guide me. I found little consolation in mature thought, and I am not one
of the fools who has just taken things for granted; I strike out by myself. I want to find
what beauty really is, and I shall find it by sifting out everything first. I have probed a
good many things one way and another, some ugly, some beautiful. I have followed the course
of Nature. After all, Nature is more likely to be right than an artificial civilisation. I
follow where my inclinations lead me. I hate laws and regulations. As I've often said, I did
not ask to come into this world, so I shall do as I please, and I think that I shall reach
home all right in the end. Literature is a great sign-post!"

"Yes," said Gordon simply. "I never imagined it before. Who wrote that, by the way?"

"Swinburne, the great pagan who was sick of the sham and pretence of his day, and cried for
the glories of Rome. Look here, Caruthers, come down to Gisson's afterwards, and as a memento
of our year together in Study 1, just let me give you Swinburne's Poems and Ballads. It's great
stuff; you'll like it, and you'll find there something a bit better than your caps and pots."

Gordon did not answer. The sun had now risen high above the Abbey. Across the silence was wafted
the cracked notes of the School House bell; there was a rush of feet from the studies. For
a few minutes Gordon lay back in his chair quite quiet. A new day had broken on his life. The
future opened out with wide promises, with possibilities of great things. For he had heard
at last the call which, if ever a man hears it, he casts away the nets and follows after--the
call of beauty--"which is, after all, only truth, seen from another side."

BOOK III: UNRAVELLING THE THREADS

    "... and drank delight of battle with my peers."

    TENNYSON.

    "Yet would you tread again
      All the road over?
    Face the old joy and pain--
      Hemlock and clover?
    Yes. For it still was good,
      Good to be living,
    Buoyant of heart and blood;
      Fighting, forgiving."

   AUSTIN DOBSON.

    "Oh! the hardest day was never then too hard."

    LINDSAY GORDON.

CHAPTER I: COMMON ROOM FACES

Miracles do not happen, nor do sudden conversions. Man very rarely changes. What he is at the
beginning, he is at the end; all that occurs is that at various stages of his journey he looks
at life from a different point of view, or rather through a different pair of spectacles, for
never on this earth do we really see things as they are. When Gordon found new influences at
work upon him, when he discovered through literature that there is something higher than the
ignoble monotony of the average individual routine, he did not suddenly change his whole way
of life, and, "like a swimmer into cleanness leaping," put out of sight behind him the things
that had pleased him once. Right and wrong are merely relative terms. What was considered right
in the days of Cæsar spells social ostracism to-day. And there are a few who prefer to see
life as the Romans saw it, and to follow the ideals of power and physical beauty. For such
life is not easy. Yet we are not so much better than "when Cæsar Augustus was Egypt's Lord!"
The question of what is really right and what is really wrong will never be satisfactorily
decided, on this earth at any rate, for we cannot all wear the same spectacles for long. Temperament
is all-powerful.

And Gordon made no attempt to settle the question. He did not suddenly feel a loathing for
his former pleasures, but during the long summer holidays, as he bathed in the waters of English
poetry, it seemed to him as if he had outgrown them, and cast them aside. Perhaps in the future
they might momentarily appear beautiful once more, but he did not think that he would ever
again wear them for very long, for they were, after all, little, insignificant, trivial, and
contrasted poorly with the white heat of Byron's passion, and the flaming ardour of Swinburne,
that cried for "the old kingdoms of earth and their kings." As he read on, while the summer
sun sank in a red sea behind the gaunt Hampstead firs, read of the proud, domineering soul
of Manfred, visualised the burst of passion that had prompted the murder in The Last Confession,
felt the thundering paganism of the Hymn to Proserpine, he was overcome with a tremendous hatred
for the system that had kept literature from him as a shut book, that had offered him mature
philosophy instead of colour and youth, and tried to prevent him from seeking it for himself.
So this is the way, he thought, the youth of England is being brought up. Masters tell us to
fix all our energies on achieving school successes, and think of calf-bound prizes and tasselled
caps all day long. No wonder that, if they bind us down to trivial things, we become like the
Man with the Muck-Rake, and drift on with low aims, with nothing to help us to live differently
from cattle. No wonder the whole common room is repeatedly shocked by the discovery of some
sordid scandal.

Gordon's soul was very arrogant and very intolerant, and it was rather unfortunate that, at
a time when he was bubbling over with rebellion, Arnold Lunn's novel, The Harrovians, should
have been published, as no previous school story had done it stripped school life of sentiment,
and a storm of adverse criticism broke out. Old Harrovians wrote to the papers, saying that
they had been at Harrow for six years, and that the conversation was, except in a few ignoble
exceptions, pure and manly, and that the general atmosphere was one of clean, healthy broadmindedness.
Gordon fumed. What fools all these people were! When they were told the truth, they would not
believe it. Prophets must prophesy smooth things, or else were not prophets. How was there
ever going to be any hope of improvement till the true state of affairs was understood?

And then a sudden doubt came to Gordon. What if these old Harrovians were right? What if this
man Lunn had depicted the life of the exceptional, not of the average boy? What then of Fernhurst?
He had judged the book by his own experiences. Was it possible that his school was worse than
other schools, and what was usual there, would be exceptional at Rugby, Eton and Winchester?
He had been so proud of Fernhurst, with its grey cloisters and dreaming Abbey, with its magnificent
Fifteen and fine boxers. He had cursed at the Public School system because he thought it had
done harm to Fernhurst. What if Fernhurst and not the system were at fault? For several days
this worried him.

One evening, however, during the last week of the holidays, a Mr Ainslie came to dinner. He
had been a contemporary of Lunn's at Harrow, and had himself been head of his house for two
years. The conversation had drifted to a discussion of recent books: The Woman Thou Gavest
Me, Sinister Street, The Devil's Garden, Round the Corner.

"By the way, Gordon," said Ainslie, "read that book, The Harrovians?"

"Oh yes, sir."

"What did you think of it?"

"I liked it very much--thought it was the finest school story I had ever read." Gordon felt
rather nervous. He was aware that he was on thin ice, and timidly blurted out: "But, sir, was
it true to Harrow life?"

"Absolutely; and it's as true to the life of any other Public School. They are all much the
same, you know, at the root."

An immense weight was lifted from Gordon's mind.

"I thought so, sir, but such a lot of fellows wrote to the papers saying it was all rot, and
I began to wonder if----"

"My dear Gordon, don't you make any mistake about it. Lunn knows what he is talking about.
But old Public School men shroud their school life in a mist of sentiment; so they forget what
they really did. All they remember is how they ragged the 'stinks' master, and pulled off the
Senior cricket cup. Why, when that new house master--oh, what's his name, Lee? Well, at any
rate, when he came to Lunn's house he was slowly getting rid of undesirables for terms, actually
for terms. Cayley was not the only one who had to go, and, of course, no one thought of anything
but games. I got a schol. there from my prep., and I literally had to live it down. It took
me some time, too. We want a good deal of improvement in this rusty old system."

So after all it was the system that was at fault, not Fernhurst.... Fairly contentedly he went
back by the three-thirty from Waterloo; but as he saw the evening sun steeping the gravel courts
in shadows, and watched the lights flickering behind the study panes, it came home to him with
a poignant vividness that Fernhurst, which should have been a home of dreams and of ideas,
had, by the inefficiency of a vacillating system, become immersed in petty intrigues, and was
filled with a generation that was being taught to blind itself to the higher issues.

But in a moment he was caught up in the tear and bustle of an opening term. There was the rush
to the notice-board to see what dormitory he was in, who were the prefects; then the hurried
interview with the Chief, and the inevitable Health certificate. The meeting of the eight-ten
from Exeter; prayers; the arrival of the last train; and finally sleep. The hold of tradition
is very strong; in a few moments Gordon had flung aside his doubts and scruples. Arm-in-arm
with Collins he rolled down to the day-room to look at the new boys. There were twelve of them
in all, very frightened, very timid, huddled round the day-room fire, wondering what was before
them.

"Well, Caruthers, what do you think of that lot?" said Collins, as they swaggered back again
to the studies.

"Oh, not much; that fellow second from the left was not bad. What's his name, oh yes, Morcombe.
Believe me, he is some stuff."

"Oh, I thought him rather a washed-out specimen, but, I say, that fat fellow looks rather a
sport. You know, the man like a dormouse."

"Oh yes, that podgy lad. Morgan, he is Welsh, I know about him. He was captain of the prep,
last year at football--not a bad forward, I believe. Oh, but there's Lovelace--Lovelace."

"Hullo, Caruthers."

In a huge brown coat, Lovelace charged across from the porter's lodge. "Had any cricket? What
price Middlesex--below Hants, rotten county--you should watch Leicester now."

"Oh, dry up, Middlesex has had bad luck this year." The defeat at Lord's by Worcester and Kent
in the same week was a sore point with Gordon.

"Oh, did they? I call them rotten players. But, look here, who are pres?"

"Oh, Tester, Betteridge, Clarke, Mansell, all the whole crowd."

"Good God, 'some' pres! Wait a sec. for me. I am only going to see Chief for a second. I am
going to get confirmed, I think. I heard you get off some work for it. Half a sec."

Back to the old life again. Nothing was changed. The same talk, the same interests, all the
old things the same. Only he was altered. He felt as if he wanted to stand on the Abbey tower,
and shout aloud that the School was wasting its opportunities, and was struggling blindly in
the dark, following will-o'-the-wisps. And yet, for all that, he would not have Lovelace, or
Mansell or any other of his friends the least bit different. He did not know what he wanted.
It was better to let them go on as they were. As it had been, it would be. He could not do
much, and at the moment he decided that, whatever he might think or feel, he would outwardly
remain the same. The world was not going to look at his soul. He would go on as he had begun,
putting things behind him as he outgrew them, and as they appeared childish to him. Only a
very few should ever see him as he really was. The rest would not understand him, they would
think him strange, unnatural; and he did not want that.

The first few days passed quickly. The entrance of Ferrers, the new master, into the placid
Fernhurst atmosphere caused a mild sensation. The school first saw him walking across the courts
after the masters' meeting on the first day of term. His walk was a roll; he talked at the
top of his voice; his left arm sustained a pile of books; his right arm gesticulated wildly.

"Good Gawd," said Tester, "what a bounder."

"Maybe, but he's the sort of man to wake up the school," said Betteridge.

"Isn't it rather like applying a stomach-pump to a man who is only fit for a small dose of
Eno's Fruit Salt?"

"Nous verrons."

And in the bustle of a new term Ferrers was forgotten.

Gordon was in the Sixth, and its privileges were indeed sweet. He felt very proud as he sat
in the same room with Harding, a double-first, and head of the House, and with Hazelton, the
captain of the House. Though it was an ordeal to go on to "con" before them, it was very magnificent
to roll down to the football field just before the game began without attending roll.

"I say, Caruthers," Lovelace would yell across the changing-room, "do buck up; it's nearly
twenty-five to three, and roll is at a quarter to."

"I don't go to roll," came the lordly answer.

And he felt the eyes of admiring juniors fixed on him. It was sheer joy, too, to wear the blue
ribbon of the Sixth Form and to carry a walking-stick; to stroll into shops that were to the
rest of the school out of bounds; to go to the armoury and the gym. after tea without a pass.
But it was in hall that the new position meant most.

While the rest of the house had to stay in their studies and make some pretence of work, he
would wander indolently down the passage and pay calls. When he paused outside a study he heard
the invariable sound of a novel flying into the waste-paper basket, of a paper being shoved
under the table, or a cake being relegated to the window-seat. Then he came in.

A curse always greeted him.

"Oh, damn you, Caruthers, I thought it was a prefect. Foster, hoist out that cake; we were
just having a meal."

He now had the freedom of studies that had before been to him as holy places. Where once Clarke
had dealt out justice with a heavy hand, Tester and he sat before the fire discussing books
and life. In the games study, where once he trembled before the rage of Lovelace major, he
sat with Carter in hall preparing Thucydides. Steps would sound down the passage, a knock on
the door.

"Come in," bawled Carter.

"Please, Carter, may I speak to Smith?" a nervous voice would say. No one could talk without
leave from a prefect during hall.

"Yes; and shut the outer door," Carter answered, without looking round. The prefectorial dignity
seemed in a way to descend on Gordon; just then life was very good. But there were times when
he would feel an uncontrollable impatience with the regime under which he lived. One of these
was on the second Sunday of term. It was Rogers' turn to preach, and, as always, Gordon prepared
himself for a twenty minutes' sleep till the outburst of egoistic rhetoric was spent. But this
time, about half-way through, a few phrases floated through his mist of dreams and caught his
attention. Rogers was talking about the impending confirmation service. With one hand on the
lectern and the other brandishing his pince-nez, as was his custom when he intended to be more
than usually impressive, he began the really vital part of the sermon.

"In the holidays there appeared as, I am sorry to say, I expect some of you saw, a book pretending
to deal with life at one of our largest Public Schools. I say, pretending, because the book
contains hardly a word of truth. The writer says that the boys are callous about religious
questions and discuss matters which only grown-up people should mention in the privacy of their
own studies, and still more serious, the purport of the book was to attack not only the boys
but even the masters who so nobly endeavour to inculcate living ideas of purity and Christianity.
I am only too well aware when I look round this chapel to-night--this chapel made sacred by
so many memories--that nearly every word of that accusation is false. Yet perhaps there are
times--in our mirth, shall we say?--when we are engaged in sport, or genial merriment, when
we are inclined to treat sacred matters not with quite that reverence that we ought. Perhaps----"

Rogers prosed on, epithet followed epithet, egotism and arrogance vied with one another for
predominance. The school lolled back in the oak seats and dreamt of house matches, rags, impositions,
impending rows. At last the Chief gave out the final hymn. Into the cloisters the school poured
out, hustling, shouting, a stream of shadows. Contentedly Rogers went back to his house, ate
a large meal, and addressed a little homily to the confirmation candidates in his house on
the virtues of sincerity.

"What a pitiable state of mind old 'Bogus' must be in," sighed Tester, when the scurry of feet
along the passage had died down kind of quiet, and he and Gordon were sitting in front of a
typically huge School House fire.

"I don't think I should call it a mind at all," muttered Gordon, who was furious about the
whole affair. "The man's an utter fool. When he is told the truth he won't believe it, but
stands there in the pulpit rambling on, airing his rotten opinions. Good God, and that's the
sort of man who is supposed to be moulding the coming generation. Oh, it's sickening."

"Well, my good boy, what more can you expect? The really brilliant men don't take up schoolmastering;
it is the worst paid profession there is. Look at it, a man with a double-first at Oxford comes
down to a place like Fernhurst and sweats his guts out day and night for two hundred pounds
a year. Of course, the big men try for better things. Rogers is just the sort of fool who would
be a schoolmaster. He has got no brain, no intellect, he loves jawing, and nothing could be
more suitable for him than the Third Form, the pulpit, and a commission in the O.T.C. But perhaps
he may have a few merits. I have not found any yet."

"Nor I. But, you know, some good men take up schoolmastering."

"Oh, of course they do. There is the Chief, for instance, a brilliant scholar and the authority
on Coleridge. But he is an exception; and besides, he did not stop an assistant master long;
he got a headmastership pretty soon. Chief is a splendid fellow. But I am talking of the average
man. Just look at our staff: a more fatuous set of fools I never struck. All in a groove, all
worshipping the same rotten tin gods. I am always repeating myself, but I can't help it. Damn
them all, I say, they've mucked up my life pretty well; not one of them has tried to help me.
They sit round the common room fire and gas. Betteridge swears Ferrers is a wonderful man;
personally, I think he is an unmitigated nuisance. But at any rate, he is the only man who
ever thinks for himself. Oh, what fools they all are."

For the rest of the evening Gordon and Tester cursed and swore at everyone and everything,
and on the whole felt better for having got it off their chests. At any rate, next day Gordon
was plotting a rag on an enormous scale with Archie Fletcher; and in a House game assisted
in the severe routing of Rogers' house by seventy-eight points to nil. It takes a good deal
to upset a boy of fifteen for very long. And the long evenings were a supreme happiness.

       *       *       *       *       *

It must be owned that during hall Lovelace was rather unsociable. It was not that he studied
Greek or Latin; he had a healthy contempt for scholastic triumphs; horse-racing was the real
interest of his life. "This is my work," he used to scoff, brandishing The Sportsman in Gordon's
face. "I am not going to be a classic scholar, and I sha'n't discover any new element, or such
stuff as that. I am going on the turf. This is my work."

For an hour every evening he laboured perseveringly at "his work" with form books, The Sportsman,
and huge account books. For every single race he chose the runners, and laid imaginary bets;
each night he made out how much he had lost or made; and it must be confessed that if he had
really laid money on the horses, he would most certainly have done a good term's work. By Christmas
he was one hundred and seventeen pounds up. This pursuit, of course, rather militated against
his activities in the class-room; but, as he said, "It was only Claremont, the old Methuselah--and
they had a damned good crib." Lovelace did his work from seven to eight, and during this time
Caruthers, who seemed to be in the happy condition of never having any work to do at all, wandered
round the studies. And during his peregrinations many who had been to him before merely units
in a vast organisation detached themselves from the rest, and became to him living characters;
especially was this so with Foster. He had played with Foster for two years in the Colts and
in A-K sides, but there had never been anything in common between them; their interests had
been far apart; neither stood for anything to the other. But now, when Gordon found himself
frequently dropping into Foster's study for half-an-hour or so, he realised how many qualities
Foster had. Foster was strong-willed, obstinate almost, quite regardless of tradition, in his
own way slightly a rebel, and a past master in the art of deceiving masters. There are two
ways of making a master look a fool: one is by introducing processions and coloured mice; the
other by bowing before him, making him think you are hard-working and industrious, and all
the while laughing at him behind his back. Gordon preferred the former, because he had the
love of battle; but Foster held to the second method, in its way equally effective, and anyone
who shook a spear against authority was sure of sympathy from Gordon.

It was a great sight to see Foster bamboozle Claremont. With the greatest regularity Foster
was ploughed in his con., failed to score in Latin prose, and knew nothing of his rep. And
yet he never got an imposition. He would point out how hard he worked; he often stayed behind
after school for a few seconds to ask Claremont a point in the unseen. Such keenness was unusual,
and Claremont could not connect it with the slovenly productions that he had learnt to associate
with the name of Foster. For a long time it was a vast enigma. At half term Foster's report
consisted of one word, typically Claremontian--"Inscrutable." But manners always win in the
end. Foster showed so much zeal, such an honest willingness to learn, that Claremont finally
classed him as a hard-working, keen, friendly, but amazingly stupid boy. The Army class, which
Foster honoured with his presence, always did Latin and English with Claremont, and for over
two years Foster sat at the back of Claremont's room, scoring marks by singles when others
scored by tens. Yet his reports were invariably good; he never had an imposition; he never
needed to prepare a line of anything.

"Well, Foster," Claremont used to say, as he returned a prose entirely besmirched with blue
pencil, "I believe you really try, but the result is most disheartening."

Foster always looked profoundly distressed; and at the end of the hour he would go up, prose
in hand, and ask why the subject of an active verb could not be in the ablative. Two minutes
later he would emerge with a broad grin on his face, and murmur to whoever might be near that
Claremont was "a most damnable ass, but none the less a pleasant creature." And in the evening
hall he and Gordon would discuss how one or other of them had advanced a step further into
the enemy's country, and taken one more pawn in the gigantic game of bluff. They were both
in their own fashion working to the same end.

But at this point the serene calm of Gordon's life was suddenly rudely interrupted by an incursion
on the part of "the Bull." About three weeks after the term had begun the Colts played their
first game, and like most sides at the beginning of a season, they were terribly disorganised.
Lovelace, who had been in under-sixteen teams for years, was the Senior Colts badge and was
captain. Burgoyne led the scrum; he was a rough diamond, if indeed a diamond at all, and was
not too popular with the side. Foster was scrum half; Collins and Gordon were in the scrum.
It was really quite a decent side, but this particular afternoon it started shakily. "The Bull"
raged so madly and cursed so furiously that the side became petrified with funk, and could
do nothing right.

Once and only once did the Colts look like scoring, and then Lovelace knocked on the easiest
pass right between the posts.

"Never did I see anything like it," bellowed Buller. "For eighteen years I have coached Fernhurst;
and before that I coached Oxford and Gloucestershire; and I am not going to stand this. Lovelace,
you are not fit to be captain of a pick-up, let alone a school Colts side. Burgoyne, skipper
the side. Now then, two minutes more to half-time; do something, Colts."

The Colts did do something. They let the other side score twice. At half-time Buller poured
forth a superb torrent of rhetoric. And suddenly there came over Gordon an uncontrollable desire
to laugh. "The Bull" looked so funny, with his hair ruffled, and his eyes flaming with wrath.
Gordon had to look the other way, or he would have burst into paroxysms of laughter. When one
is overexcited and worried, hysteria is not far absent. Gordon turned away.

Then suddenly he felt a terrific assault on his backside. Someone had booted him most fiercely,
and turning round he saw the face of Buller still more distorted with rage.

"Never saw such rudeness! Here am I trying to coach the rottenest side that has ever disgraced
a Fernhurst ground, and you haven't the manners to listen to me. Good man, are you so perfect
that you can afford to pay no attention to me? For heaven's sake, don't make your footer like
your cricket, the slackest thing in the whole of Fernhurst. Come on, we'll go on with this game."

For ten more minutes "the Bull" watched the Colts making feverish endeavours to do anything
right. But his powers of endurance were not equal to the strain.

"Here," he shouted, as Harding was going up to change after superintending a pick-up, "you
might referee for about ten more minutes here, will you? I can't bear the sight of the little
slackers any longer."

A sigh of relief went up as the figure of Buller rolled out through the field gate. Strangely
enough, the Colts did rather better after this, and Collins scored a really quite fine try.
But the side left the field glowing with resentment. None more than Gordon and Lovelace.

"What does the fool mean by making a little ass like Burgoyne captain?" complained Gordon.
"Dirty little beast, who does not wash or shave. And he hacked me up the bottom, too, the swine.
I'm getting a bit sick of 'The Bull.'"

"So am I. What we really want is my brother back again. He kept him in order all right. My
brother was a strong man, and did not stand any rot from Buller or anyone else."

"Hullo, you two, you look about fed up! What's the row?"

They turned round; Mansell was coming up behind them. Lovelace burst out perfervidly:

"It's that fool Buller. He cursed the Colts all round, and he made Burgoyne captain instead
of me, and he hacked Gordon's bottom, and told him he had no manners. Believe me, we have had
a jolly afternoon."

"And I suppose he said that he had captained Oxford, Cambridge, New Zealand and the Fiji Islands,
and that in his whole career he had never seen anything like it."

"Oh yes, he fairly rolled out his qualifications, like a maid-servant applying for a post."

"Oh, well, never mind," said Mansell; "he is a good chap, really, only he can't keep his temper.
He'll probably apologise to you both before the end of the day. I remember Ferguson said once:
'All men are fools and half of them are bloody fools.' Not so bad for Ferguson that! Cheer up!"

"Yes; but, damn it all, it is a bit thick," said Lovelace. "And a tick like Burgoyne to boot."

As they were changing, a fag from Buller's made a nervous entry; he looked very lost, but finally
summoned up enough courage to ask Davenport if he knew where Caruthers was.

"Yonder, sirrah, lurking behind the piano."

The fag came up.

"Oh--I say--er--Caruthers. 'The Bull'--er, I mean Mr Buller wants to see you as soon as you
are changed."

"Right," said Gordon.

"I said so," said Mansell; "he will weep over you and shake your hand like a long-lost brother;
and after you will follow Lovelace, who will once more lead the lads with white jerseys and
red dragons to victory against Osborne. Good-bye; you needn't stop, you know," he informed
the fag, who was giving a stork-like performance, by gyrating first on one foot then on another.

"That means I shall miss my tea," said Gordon.

"I fear so," answered Mansell. "I don't really think you can expect 'the Bull' to receive you
with crumpets and muffins and other goodly delights. Of course to-morrow is Sunday; you might
manage to work a supper-party, but don't rely on it. Come and tell me the result of your chat;
you will find me in my study; don't knock; just walk in; you are always welcome."

As Gordon walked across the courts to Buller's study he had not the slightest doubt as to how
the interview would end. "The Bull" was often like this. Only yesterday Foster had told him
some long yarn of how he had beaten a lad in Christy's and had hit his hand by mistake; and
to kick a person was, after all, a far more undignified method of assault. It was almost actionable.
Quite contentedly he knocked on the door and went in. He was not, however, welcomed with open
arms. "The Bull" stood with his back to the door, facing the fireplace, his hands behind his
back. He did not speak for a minute or so. Gordon wondered if it would be correct to take a
chair. "The Bull" broke the silence.

"Well, Caruthers, are you sorry for what happened this afternoon?"

This took Gordon by surprise: it was hardly the interview he had been led to expect. He murmured
"Yes, sir" rather indistinctly.

"Are you, though? Because if you are going to come in here and say you are sorry, when you
are not, simply to smooth things over, you would be a pretty rotten sort of fellow."

"Yes, sir." Gordon had recovered his self-control and was ready for a fight.

"Well, this is the way I look at things. I am here to coach Fernhurst sides; it is my life's
work. I love Fernhurst, and I have devoted all my energy and care to help my old school, and
it seems to me that you are trying--you and Lovelace between you--to ruin my work and stand
in my light. Both of you as individuals are well worth your places in both under-sixteen sides,
football and cricket. As individuals, I say; and you think you are indispensable to the side,
and that we can't do without you. You can afford to laugh when you miss catches, and not pay
attention to me when I am trying to give you the benefits of my experience."

"I heard every word----"

"Will you kindly wait till I have finished. Fernhurst has done very well in the past without
you and Lovelace, and five years hence it will have to do without you, and I am not going to
have you interfere with the present. You hate me, I dare say; from all I hear of you, you hate
my house; and you stir up sedition against me. You show the others how much you care for me.
And you are both people who have some influence in your house, and wherever you are, for that
matter. And are you using it for the good of Fernhurst? You ruined all my pleasure in the cricket
Colts; but I don't care about myself. All I care for is Fernhurst. Why did I stop Lovelace
being captain? Because I want a man who is going to back me up, who is going to play for the
side and not for himself. And I tell you I am going to drop Lovelace; he plays for himself;
he gives rotten passes; he upsets combination; and I won't have him on my side."

Gordon could stand it no longer.

"Sir, I am not going to hold a brief for myself. But you have not treated Lovelace fairly.
Last year on a trial game you kicked him out of the side, only to find in a week that you could
not do without him. And to-day, sir, on a trial game you deposed him from the captaincy."

"Do you mean to say that after playing Rugby football for twenty-five years I don't know what
I am talking about?"

Gordon saw he had said too much.

"And I am not talking about his play, I am talking about his general attitude. Now, didn't
you two rag about a good deal at the nets last term?"

"Well, sir, it was hardly ragging, sir----"

"Oh, hardly ragging.... There must be no ragging.... If we are going to turn out good sides
we must be in dead earnest the whole time. You imagine you are loyal to Fernhurst. My old sides
followed me implicitly. I loved them, and they loved me. We worked together for Fernhurst;
now, are you doing your best for Fernhurst?"

Gordon was overwhelmed. He wanted to tell "the Bull" how mistaken he was; that he and Lovelace
did not hate him at all; that they were doing their best; but that their sense of humour was
at times too strong. But it was useless. "The Bull" would not give him a chance. And he had
learnt from Mansell and Tester that "the Bull" could only see one point of view at a time.
And yet he was filled with an immense admiration for this man who thought only of Fernhurst,
who had worked for Fernhurst all his life, who made Fernhurst's interests the standard for
every judgment and action. There was something essentially noble in so unswerving a devotion.
If only his love of Fernhurst had not made him so complete an egoist.

"Well, what is it to be, Caruthers?" Buller went on. "Are you going to work with me or against
me? When you first came you were keen and willing. You are still keen, but you think too much
of yourself now; you imagine you know more than I do. Is all this going to stop? Are we going
to work together?"

There was nothing to be gained by arguing.

"Sir, I shall do my best to."

"Well, I hope so, Caruthers. It is not for my own sake I mind; you see that, don't you? It
is Fernhurst that matters. We must all do our best for Fernhurst. I hope we sha'n't have any
more trouble, you will be a power in the school some day, we must work together--for Fernhurst."

"Yes, sir."

Gordon walked to the door; as he put his hand on the knob he paused for a second, then turned
round.

"Good-night, sir."

"Good-night, Caruthers."

He was out in the street again. There was a tremendous noise going on in one of the Buller's
studies. From the courts came sounds of barge football. He did not feel as if he wanted to
go and discuss everything with Mansell for a minute or so. Slowly he wandered round the shrubbery,
past the big school, past the new buildings into the Abbey courtyard. He sat down on a seat
and tried to think. A girl came and sat beside him and smiled at him invitingly. He took no
notice. She sat there a minute or so, then got up and walked off stiffly. The Abbey clock boomed
out the quarter to six. In a minute or so he would have to go back to tea. He was worried.
He liked "the Bull," admired him intensely; and yet "the Bull" thought he hated him, thought
him disloyal. Why could not Buller keep his temper? Why must he rush to conclusions without
weighing the evidence? And "the Bull" was such a splendid man; he was one of the very few masters
Gordon respected in the least. He wanted "the Bull" to like him. And then there was Lovelace.
Why couldn't "the Bull" try to see life as Lovelace saw it? Why must he want everyone to share
the same views as he, look at everything through the same spectacles? It wouldn't have mattered
if he was merely an insignificant busybody like Christy. He was such a splendid fellow, such
a man. It was all such a pity. And yet he realised that he would have to try and bend his will
to that of Buller; he must endeavour to work side by side with him. It would not do to have
Fernhurst split up into two camps. In the past he had thought he was doing his best; but "the
Bull" wanted absolute subservience. And what "the Bull" wanted he usually got.

Lovelace, however, took quite a different view. He was mad with Buller.

"Damn it all, it is not the first time the swine has done the dirty on me. Look at the way
he kicked me out of the side last year."

"I know, that's what I told him. And he owned that both of us as individuals were worth our
places, but that we upset the side and rotted about, and were always up against him."

"Silly ass the man must be. We are keen enough, aren't we? But I damned well don't see why
we should treat footer and cricket like a chapel service. We can laugh in form if anything
funny happens; then why the hell shouldn't we laugh on the field? And, my God, Caruthers, you
did look an ass when you missed that catch." Lovelace roared with laughter at the thought of
it. "The way you juggled with it, and old Bull tearing his hair, oh, it was damned funny."

"But, you see, 'the Bull' thinks games are everything, and, damn it all, they are the things
that really matter. We each may have our own private interests. But games are the thing. Only
personally I don't see why we should not see the funny side of them. To 'the Bull' a dropped
catch is an everlasting disgrace."

"Oh, let 'the Bull' go to blazes, I am sick of him. If he wants to kid me out of the Colts,
he can; and I'll go and enjoy myself on House games. But look here, there is a Stoics debate
to-night and it's nearly roll-time. You had better go down and bag two seats."

The Stoics society was of elastic proportions, including everyone above IV. A, for a life subscription
of sixpence, and during the winter term it held meetings every other week in the School House
reading-room. The actual membership was over a hundred, but rarely more than fifty attended,
and of those who went only fifty per cent. paid any attention to the proceedings. The rest
looked on it as a good excuse for getting off work. Three quarters of the society were from
the School House, and these arrived with deck chairs, cushions and a novel, and thoroughly
enjoyed themselves. Christy was the president, and this was to a great extent the reason for
so general an atmosphere of boredom and indifference. For Christy was the typical product of
conventionality and pharisaism. He was so thoroughly contented with anything he superintended
that he refused to believe any improvement was possible. But this year Betteridge was honorary
secretary and had tried to infuse a little life into the society. The subject for the first
debate of the term was "Classical and Modern Education," and Ferrers was going to speak for
the modern side. Ferrers was always writing to the papers, and was already well known in the
common room as a feverish orator. A good deal had been rumoured about him, and the school were
rather anxious to hear him. There was quite a large audience. At about twenty past seven Christy
came in, and everyone stood up till he had sat down. Burgess was to open the debate for the
classics, and Christy was to second him. Ferrers and Pothering, the head of Claremont's, were
for the moderns. The debate was supposed to open at twenty past the hour. But Ferrers had not
arrived. There was an awkward pause. At last Christy got up.

"I really think it is useless to wait any longer for Mr Ferrers. We will proceed. The motion
before the House is: That in the opinion of this House a classical education is more efficacious
than a modern one. I will call on Mr Burgess to open the motion."

There was a little clapping as Burgess got up with a customary display of conceit. He ran his
hand through his hair and took a glance at his notes, and then began with the blasé air of
Mercury addressing a Salvation Army meeting.

"Of course those in favour of modern education will defend themselves on the grounds of general
utility. They will point out the uselessness of Greek in business; all I can say to that is
that the Public School man should be too much of a gentleman to wish to succeed in business.
He should aim higher; he should follow the ideals set before him by the classics. Nearly all
the poets and politicians of to-day are Public School men; nearly all ..."

He went on rolling off absurdly dogmatic statements that were based solely on ignorance and
arrogance. He was of the Rogers' school of oratory. He believed that a sufficient amount of
conceit and self-possession would carry anyone through. About half-way through his speech he
was interrupted by the approach of a whirlwind. There was a sound of feet on the stone passage,
something crashed against the door, and in rolled Ferrers in a most untidy blue suit, a soft
collar, an immense woollen waistcoat, and three books under his arm. These he slammed on the
table, in company with his cap.

"Awfully sorry, Christy, old fellow ... been kept ... new lot of books from Methuen's ... had
to take one up to my wife ... rather ill, you know.... Fire away, Burgess."

All his remarks were flung off in jerks at a terrific rate. The abashed orator concluded rather
prematurely and rather wildly; such an incursion was most irregular and very perplexing.

"I will now call on Mr Ferrers to speak."

Up leapt Ferrers and began at once firing off his speech at the pace of a cinematograph. He
was full of mannerisms. He would clap his hand over his eyes when he wanted to think of something,
and would then spread it out straight before him. It was rather dangerous to get close. He
would pick up one of his books and shake it in the face of Christy.

"This is what Mackenzie says ... in Sinister Street ... fine book ... smashes up everything,
shows the shallowness of our education ... this is what he says...."

After he had read a few words, he would bang the book down on the table and continue pouring
forth inextricable anacolutha. Everyone was listening; they had never heard anything like this
before. It was a revelation. Christy chewed his finger-nails. Burgess assumed an air of Olympian
content. The flood of rhetoric rolled on:

"It is like this, you see; the classical education makes you imitate all the time ... Greek
Prose like Sophocles ... Latin Verse like Petronius.... I don't know if I have got the names
right ... probably not ... never could stick doing it. There is no free thought. Classics men
do very well in the Foreign Offices, but they can't think.... What do classics do in the literary
world? Nothing. Bennett, Lloyd George, Wells--the best men never went to a Public School....
We want originality; and the classics don't give it. They are all right for a year or so to
give a grounding of taste ... though they don't give that to the average boy ... but no more.
What did I learn from classics?--only to devise a new way of bringing a crib into form....
Is that an education? No, we want French, jolly few cribs to be got of Daudet that are any
use to the Lower Fifth ... Maths, that's the stuff ... makes them think.... Riders ... get
them out your own way--not Vergil's way or Socrates' way--your own way--originality...."

In this strain he talked for a quarter of an hour, and held the audience spellbound. He had
really interested them. Here was something new, something worth listening to. He was received
with a roar of clapping.

After his speech everything else fell flat. Christy made one or two super-subtle remarks which
no one understood. There was nothing left for Pothering to say; the motion was then put before
the House and the debate developed into a farce. Idiot after idiot got up and made some infantile
qualification of an earlier statement--all of them talked off the point. So much so, in fact,
that Turner was beginning a tale of a fight he had had with a coster down Cheap Street when
Christy called him to order.

Gordon at once rose in protest.

"Gentlemen, I address the Chair. It is preposterous that Mr Turner should have been refused
a hearing. We may have lost what would perhaps have thrown new light on the subject. Doubtless
he had carefully selected this particular anecdote out of a life, alas, too full of excitement"
(a roar greeted this, Christy had beaten Turner that very morning for eating chocolates in
German), "with the express view of pointing out the superiority of the classics. Doubtless
the rough in question, not knowing the custom in Homeric contests, had failed to propitiate
the gods, while he, the narrator, had rushed into Back Lane behind Mother Beehive's charming
old-world residence, and having offered a prayer to Mars, waited for his burly antagonist in
the darkness, and as the vile man, clearly one of St Paul's 'god haters'" (that time the Sixth
were reading the "Romans") "thundered by, he smote him with a stone above the eye, and left
him discomfited and, like OEdipus, well nigh blind. Here we see----"

But the meeting never found out what they really saw. Gordon was called to order, and sat down
amid a tumult of applause. One or two more speakers brought fresh evidence to bear on the subject;
and then there was the division. The moderns won by a huge majority. As the rabble passed into
the passage Gordon heard Ferrers say to Christy in his most patronising manner:

"Rather wiped the ground with you, didn't we?... Well, never mind, you stood no earthly....
Days of the classics are over. Still, you fought well.... Third line of defence--ad triarios....
I remember a bit of my classics."

Gordon was borne out on the stream past the matron's room to the end of the passage, and the
rest of Ferrers's speech was lost.

From this day the Stoics underwent a complete change. The whole nature of the society was altered.
Ferrers was so absolutely different from anything that a master had appeared to be from time
immemorial. He was essentially of the new generation, an iconoclast, a follower of Brooke and
Gilbert Cannan, heedless of tradition, probing the root of everything. At the end of the term
Christy resigned his presidency. He could not keep pace with the whirlwind Ferrers.

"You know, Caruthers," said Tester in second hall, "whatever our personal feelings may be,
we have got to allow that this man Ferrers has got something in him."

"Something! Why, I thought him simply glorious. Here he is bursting in on the prude conventionality
of Fernhurst full of new ideas, smashing up the things that have been accepted unquestionably
for years. By Jove, the rest of the staff must hate him."

"There was a thing by him in the A.M.A. the other day that caused considerable annoyance, I
believe. I didn't read the thing myself, but I heard 'the Bull' saying it was disgraceful that
a Fernhurst master should be allowed to say such things. I suppose he said something against
games."

"Well, damn it all, if he did, he is in the wrong. Games are absolutely necessary. What on
earth would the country be like without them?"

"A damned sight better, I should think."

"Oh, don't be an ass. Just look at the fellows who don't play games, Rudd and Co. What wrecks
they are! Utterly useless. We could do perfectly well without them. Could not we now?"

At this point Betteridge strolled in very leisurely. Authority had made him a dignified person.
The days of ragging Trundle seemed very distant. He did not go about with Mansell so much now.
He was more often with Carter and Harding.

"Betteridge, come in and sit down," said Tester; "we were arguing on the value of games. Don't
you agree with me that it's about time a man like Ferrers made a sensible attack on them?"

"Yes; though I doubt if Ferrers is quite the man to do it. He is such a revolutionary. He would
want to smash everything at once. A gradual change is what is needed. I look at it like this.
Games are all right in themselves. A man must keep himself physically fit; but games are only
a means to an end. The object of all progress is to get a clear, clean-sighted race, intellectual
and broadminded. And I think physical fitness is a great help in the production of a clear,
clean mind. The very clever man who is weak bodily is so apt to become a decadent; and because
he himself can't stand any real exertion, despises those who can. Games are necessary as a
means to an end. But Buller and all the rest of the lot think games are the actual end. Look
at the way a man with his footer cap is idealised and worshipped. He may be an utter rake;
probably is, most likely he has no brains at all. If he ever had them, he soon ceased to use
them, and devotes all his energies to athletic success. Why should we worship him? Merely because
he can kick a rotten football down a rotten field. It is this worship of athletics that is
so wrong."

"Oh, you are talking rot," burst out Gordon angrily; "the English race is the finest in the
whole world and has been bred on footer and cricket. I own the Public School system has its
faults; but not because of games. It stamps out personality, tries to make types of us all,
refuses to allow us to think for ourselves. We have to read and pretend to like what our masters
tell us to. No freedom. But games are all right. We all have our own interests. Poetry is my
chief one at present. But that doesn't blind me to the fact that games are what count. Where
should we be without them? And I damn well hope the House is not going to get into a finicky,
affected state of mind, despising them because they are too slack to play them. That's why
you hate them, Betteridge, because you are no good at them. My great ambition is to be captain
of this House and win the Three Cock. Of course the worship of sport is all right. Our fathers
worshipped it, and damned good fellows they were, too. I can't stand you when you talk like
this. I am going to find Lovelace; he has got a bit of sense."

The door slammed noisily behind him.

"He is very young," said Betteridge.

"Yes; and full of hopes," murmured Tester. "It is a pity to think he will have to be so soon
disillusioned. Very little remains the same for long. Pleasure is very evanescent."

Betteridge looked at him a little curiously.

"I should not have thought you would have found that out," he said.

Tester shrugged.

"Oh, well, you know, even the fastest of us get tired of our licence at times. Byron would
have become a Benedictine monk if he had lived to be fifty."

Betteridge smiled, and picking up a Browning from the table sank into an easy-chair to read.

Tester remained looking into the fire. What a fool he had been to give himself away just then.
It was his great object never to let anyone see into his soul. He had once shown Caruthers
what he was, because he could not bear to see a person of ability wasting himself for want
of high ideals. He had tried to show him that there was something above the commonplace routine
of life. And in a way he had succeeded. Caruthers often came in in the evenings to discuss
poetry with him, and those were some of the happiest moments of his life. He was not sorry
that he had poured out his heart to him. Of course Caruthers was still young, was still under
the influence of environment. But in time he was sure to realise that athletics were not the
aim of life, but only a tavern on the wayside, where we may rest for a little, or which we
may pass by, just as our fancy takes us. If Caruthers saw this at last, he would then have
done at least something not altogether vain.

For, after all, what a useless life his had been. The road he had travelled seemed white with
the skeletons of broken hopes. In the glowing coals he saw the pageant of his past unroll itself.
He had never been quite the normal person. His father was a minor poet, and for as long as
he could remember his house had been full of literary people. Arthur Symons and George Moore
had often discussed the relations between art and life across his fireplace. Yeats had told
him stories of strange Irish myths; Thomas Hardy had read to him once or twice. He had spent
his whole life with men who thought for themselves, who had despised the conventions of their
day, and he himself had ceased to believe in anything except what personal experience taught
him. He had resolved to find out things for himself. And what, after all, had he discovered?
Little except the vanity of mortal things. In his friendship with Stapleton he had for a term
or so found a temporary peace, but it had not been for long. As soon as he achieved anything
it seemed to collapse before him. He had at times sought to forget his failures in blind fits
of passion, but when the fire was burnt out the old world was the old world yet! In books alone
he found a lasting comfort. The school looked on him as "quite a decent chap, awfully fast,
of course, doesn't care a damn what he does, just lives to enjoy himself and have a damned
good time." He smiled at the irony of it all. If they only knew! But they could never know.
He had made a mistake in saying so much to Betteridge; he must not do it again. He must go
on probing everything to discover where, if anywhere, was that complete peace, that perfect
beauty that he had set out to find. In the meantime the destiny of his life would unfold itself.
He would follow where his inclinations led him.

The evening bell broke into his reverie.

He stretched himself.

"Come on, Betteridge. Let us have a rag to-night."

"Oh, I don't think I will, I am rather sleepy." Betteridge was aware of his position. To Tester
being a prefect signified very little.

That night Carter's dormitory was submitted to a most fearful raid. Water flowed everywhere.
Two sheets were ripped and a jug broken. Rudd's bed was upset on the floor with Rudd underneath.

"By Jove, Caruthers," said Lovelace, from Harding's well-behaved dormitory, "that man Tester
is some lad."

And Gordon thought, as he saw him laying about him full lustily with a pillow, that all his
talk about games must be merely a damned affectation. He was really like any ordinary fellow.

When peace was at last restored, and he had led home his victorious forces, Tester laughed
quietly to himself, as he watched the moonlight falling across a huge pool of water. He had
played his part pretty well.

       *       *       *       *       *

For the rest of the term life flowed easily with Gordon. There were no further rows with "the
Bull"; in fact their row seemed, for a time at any rate, to have brought them closer together.
Both seemed anxious to be friends with one another, and on the football field Gordon's play
gave really very little cause for complaint. For this term his football reached his highest
level. In following seasons he played good games on occasions, but he never equalled the standard
he set himself in the Colts. It was one of Gordon's chief characteristics that he usually did
well while others failed, and this term the Colts for some reason or other never properly got
together. The side kept on being altered. For a week after the row Lovelace was kept out of
the side; but it was soon obvious that his presence was absolutely necessary.

"What did I say," said Gordon. "You see, 'the Bull's' madness doesn't last for long. He got
a bit fed up with you, Lovelace, so he made himself imagine your football was bad. He can always
make himself think what he likes."

"Yes; but it is rather a nuisance," Mansell remarked, "when you realise it is always House
men who have to do the Jekyll and Hyde business."

"Good Lord! Mansell, you are becoming literary," laughed Gordon. "How did you hear of Jekyll
and Hyde?"

"Claremont has been reading the thing on Sunday mornings; not so bad for a fool like Stevenson.
It rather reminded me of The Doctor's Double, by Nat Gould; only, of course, it is not half
so good."

"No, that is a fact," said Lovelace. "Nat Gould is the finest author alive. I read some stuff
in a paper the other day about books being true to life. Well, you could not get anything more
true than The Double Event; and race-horsing is the most important thing in life, too. I sent
up the other day for six of his books; they ought to be here to-morrow."

"Well, for God's sake, don't bring them in here," said Gordon, "there is enough mess as it
is with The Sportsmans of the last month trailing all over the place."

"Oh, have some sense, man; you don't know what literature is."

Gordon subsided. All his new theories of art collapsed very easily before the honest Philistinism
of Lovelace and Mansell; for he was not quite sure of his own views himself. He loved poetry,
because it seemed to express his own emotions so adequately. Byron's "Tempest-anger, Tempest-mirth"
was as balm to his rebellious soul. Rebellion was, in fact, at this time almost a religion
with him. Only a few days back he had discovered Byron's sweeping confession of faith, "I have
simplified my politics into an utter detestation of all existing governments," and he found
it a most self-satisfying doctrine. That was what his own life should be. He would fight against
these masters with their old-fashioned and puritanic notions; he would be the preacher of the
new ideas. It was all very crude, very impossible, but at the back of this torrid violence
lay an honest desire to better conditions, tempered, it must be owned, with an ambition to
fill the middle of the stage himself. In his imagination he became a second Byron. He saw,
or thought he saw, the mistakes of the system under which he lived; and--without pausing to
consider its merits--wished to sweep away the whole foundation into the sea, and to build upon
some illusory basis a new heaven and new earth. He had yet to read the essay in which Matthew
Arnold says that "Byron shattered, inevitably shattered himself against the black rock of British
Philistinism." He was at present full of hope. The Poetry of Revolt coloured his imagination
to such a degree that he saw himself standing alone and triumphant amid the wreck of the world
he had overthrown. He was always protesting that Swinburne's finest line was in the Hymn to
Proserpine:

    "I neither kneel nor adore them, but standing look to the end."

It raises a wonderful picture to a young imagination: Swinburne standing on a mountain, looking
across the valley of years in which man fights feverishly for little things, in which nations
rise to empire for a short while, in which constitutions totter and fall, looking to where,
far away behind the mountains, flickered the faint white streamers of the dawn. Oh, he was
very young; very conceited too, no doubt; but is there anyone who, having lived longer, having
seen many bright dreams go down, having been disillusioned, and having realised that he is
but a particle in an immense machine, would not change places with Gordon, and see life once
more roseflushed with impossible loyalties?

       *       *       *       *       *

In its passage school life seems very long; in retrospect it appears but a few hours. There
is such a sameness about everything. A few incidents here and there stand out clear, but, as
a whole, day gives place to day without differing much from those that have gone before it.
We do not realise this till we can look back on them from a distance; but it is none the less true.

In the Sixth Gordon's scholastic career took the way of all other fugitive things. It had once
given promise of leading somewhere, of resulting in something, but it wanted more than ordinary
perseverance to overcome the atmosphere of the deep-rooted objection to work that overhung
all the proceedings in the Sixth Form room. And that perseverance Gordon lamentably lacked.

The Lower Sixth was mainly under the supervision of Mr Finnemore; and it was a daily wonder
to Gordon why a person so obviously unfitted should have been entrusted with so heavy a responsibility.
Finally he came to the conclusion that the last headmaster had thought that the Sixth Form
would probably make less fun and take fewer liberties with him than any other form, and that
when the present Chief had come he had not had the heart to remove a school institution. Mr
Finnemore was an oldish man, getting on for sixty, and his hair was white. He had a long moustache,
his clothes carried the odour of stale tobacco, his legs seemed hung on to his body by hooks
that every day appeared less likely to maintain the weight attached to them. His face wore
a self-depreciatory smile. He was most mercilessly "ragged."

The day when he took exams in big school will never be forgotten. Gordon was then in V.A. The
Sixth, the Army class and the Upper Fifth were all supposed to be preparing for some future
paper. All three forms had, of course, nothing to do. The Chief was in London.

At four-fifteen Finnemore was observed to be moving in his strange way across the courts. With
an almost suspicious quietness the oak desks were filled.

"What are you doing to-day, Lane?" Finnemore asked the head of the school.

"I believe, sir, we are supposed to be preparing something."

"Ah, excellent; excellent, a very good opportunity for putting in some good, hard work. Excellent!
Excellent!"

For about three minutes there was peace. Then Ferguson lethargically arose. He strolled up
the steps to the dais, and leaning against the organ loft began to speak:

"Gentlemen, as not only the Sixth Form, but also the Army class and Upper Fifth, are gathered
here this afternoon with no very ostensible reason for work, I suggest that we should hold,
on a small scale, a Bacchic festival. This will, of course, be not only entertaining but also
instructive. 'Life consists in knowing where to stop, and going a little further,' once said
H.H. Monro. Let us follow his advice--and that of the Greeks. First, let us shove the desks
against the wall and make ready for the dance."

It had all been prepared beforehand. In a few minutes several hundred books had been dropped,
several ink-pots lay smashed on the floor. There was a noise of furious thunder, and at last
all the desks somehow got shoved against the wall.

Finnemore was "magnificently unprepared." He lay back nervously in his chair, fingering his
moustache.

"This must now cease," he said.

"No, really, sir" protested Ferguson; "everything is all right. Mr Carter, will you oblige
us by playing the piano. I myself will conduct."

The floor of the big school is made of exquisitely polished oak, and is one of the glories
of Fernhurst. It was admirably suited for the dance which within five minutes was in progress.
It was a noble affair. Finnemore sat back in his chair powerless, impotent; Carter hammered
out false notes on a long-suffering piano. Ferguson beat time at the top of the dais, with
a pen gently waving between his fingers, as gracefully as the pierrots of Aubrey Beardsley
play with feathers. Down below heavy feet pretended to dance to an impossible tune. Someone
began a song, others followed suit, and before long the austere sanctity of the room was violated
by the flat melodies of Hitchy-Koo. It was indeed an act of vandalism. But the rioters had
forgotten that they were distinctly audible from without. In the Chief's absence they had thought
a row out of the question.

Unfortunately, however, "the Bull's" class-room was only a few yards off. When first he heard
the strains of revelling borne upwards he thought it must be the choir practising for the Christmas
concert. But it did not take long for him to appreciate that such a supposition was out of
the question. The noise was deafening. He could hardly hear himself talk; investigation must
be made. He got up and walked out into the courts, made his way to the big school, and opening
the door revealed the scene that has just been described. For a second or so he stood speechless.
He felt much as Moses might have felt, if he had seen a tribe of Gentiles invading the Holy
of Holies. Then his voice rang out:

"What is the meaning of this unseemly disturbance?"

A sudden silence fell over the revellers, as in Poe's story of the red death when the stranger
entered the room.

Buller looked around.

"My form, the Army class, will follow me."

Disconsolately his form found their books and moved out of the room, fully aware that they
would shortly have to pay full price for their pleasure. Over the remainder there fell a chill
feeling of uncertainty. A few spasmodic efforts were made to carry on, but the light-heartedness
was gone. The laughter was forced. Finally noise subsided into whispering, and whispering into
silence and the scratching of pens.

There loomed before the Sixth Form visions of a very unpleasant interview with the Chief, and
their expectations were not disappointed. The whole form had to stay back on the last day and
write out a Georgic. Only the Fifth got off scot-free. Macdonald was told to deal with them,
but he saw the humour of the affair too strongly to do anything but laugh.

"These Cambridge men--can't keep order. No good at all. Can't think why the Chief took him."
And then, after a pause; "I wish I had been there!"

The result of this was that for the future Finnemore was treated with a little more respect.
The Sixth decided that dances did not pay, and so contented themselves with less noisy but
little less aggravating amusements. For instance, Finnemore's hatred of Browning was a byword;
so one day the entire form decided to learn The Lost Leader for repetition. For a while Finnemore
bore it patiently, but when a burly chemistry specialist walked up to within two feet of him
and began to bawl so loudly that his actual words were distinguishable in the School House
studies, the master covered his face with his hands and murmured: "Oh, heaven spare me this
infliction!"

On another occasion Betteridge walked quietly up to him, handed him a Shelley, and without
any warning suddenly shrieked out:

    "He hath outsoared the shadow of our night."

Finnemore looked at him sadly: "My dear Betteridge, so early in the morning!"

By many little things his life was made wretched for him. But yet he would not have chosen
any other profession. He had once started life with very high hopes, but had discovered that
the world is not in sympathy with men of ideas who do not prophesy smooth things. And so at
an early age he found himself disappointed in all his personal aims. It seemed that he had
to harbour only the simplest wish to find it denied. And then he realised that for the loss
of youth there can be no compensation, and that in youth alone happiness could be found. And
so he had decided to spend his life in company with high hopes and smiling faces. There were
times when an immense sadness came over him, when he thought that disillusionment was waiting
for so many of them and that there were few who would "carry their looks or their truth to
the grave." But on the whole he was as happy as his temperament could allow him, and Gordon,
although in a sense he was the very antithesis of all that he admired most, found himself strangely
in sympathy with his new master. One day the subject for an essay was "Conventionality," and
Gordon unpacked his torrid soul in a wild abuse of all existing governments. After he had written
it, he got rather nervous about its reception, but it was returned marked a-, and Finnemore
had written at the bottom: "We all think like this when we are young; and, after all, it is
good to be young."

Gordon felt that he had found someone who understood him.

Finnemore lived in two rooms over the masters' common room, which had from time immemorial
been the possession of the Sixth Form tutor, and in the evenings when Gordon used to have his
prose corrected Finnemore would often ask him to stay behind and have some coffee. Then the
two would talk about poetry and art and life till the broken bell rang out its cracked imperious
summons. Finnemore had once published a small book of verses, a copy of which he gave to Gordon.
They had in them all the frail pathos of a wasted career; most of them were songs of spurned
affection, and inside was the quotation: "Scribere jussit amor."

"When I look at that book," said Finnemore to Gordon, "I can't associate myself with the author,
I seem to have quite outgrown him. And as I recall the verses I say to myself, 'Poor fellow,
life was hard to you,' and I wonder if he really was myself."

With him Gordon saw life from a different angle. He presented the spectacle of failure, and
it rather sobered Gordon's wild enthusiasm, at times, to feel himself so close to anything
so bitterly poignant. But the hour of youth's domination, even if it be but an hour, is too
full of excitement and confidence to be overclouded by doubts for very long. Usually Gordon
saw in him a pathetic shadow whom he patronised. He did not realise that it was what he himself
might become.

Through the long tedious hours in the shadowy class-room Gordon dreamed of wonderful successes,
and let others pass him by in the rush for promotion. He began to think that prizes and form
lists were not worth worrying about; he said a classical education had such a narrowing effect
on character. We can always produce arguments to back up an inclination if we want to. And
in Finnemore there was no force to stir anyone to do what they did not want.

Only once a day was Gordon at all industrious, and that was when the Chief took the Lower and
Upper Sixth Form combined in Horace and Thucydides.

For the Chief Gordon always worked; not, it is true, with any real measure of success, for
he had rather got out of the habit of grinding at the classics, but at any rate with energy.
And during these hours he began to perceive vaguely what a clear-sighted, unprejudiced mind
the Chief had. To the boy in the Fourth and Fifth forms any headmaster must appear not so much
a living person as the emblem of authority, the final dispenser of justice, the hard, analytical
sifter of evidence, "coldly sublime, intolerably just." Gordon had always before looked on
the Chief as a figurehead, who at times would unbend most surprisingly and become a man; on
the cricket field, for example, when in a master's match he had fielded cleanly a terrific
cut at point, and played a sporting innings; at House suppers, and, most surprisingly of all,
when a row was on, Gordon had been unable to understand him. He could not dissociate him from
his conception of a headmaster--a sort of Mercury, a divine emissary of the gods, sent as a
necessary infliction. Yet at times the Chief was intensely human, and when Gordon came under
his immediate influence and caught a glimpse of his methods, he saw in a flash that at all
times his headmaster was a generous, sympathetic nature, and that it was his own distorted
view that had ever made him think otherwise. The Chief was so ready to appreciate a joke, so
quick with an answer, so unassuming, so utterly the antithesis of any master he had met before.

There were one or two incidents that stood out clearer than any others in Gordon's memories
of his Chief.

At the very beginning of the term, before a start had been made on the term's work, the Chief
was talking about Horace's life and characteristics.

"Now, Tester," he said, "if you were asked to sum up Horace's outlook on life in a single phrase,
what would you say?"

Tester thought for a minute or so.

"Let us eat and drink, for to-morrow we die," he hazarded.

The form laughed. It seemed rather a daring generalisation. But the Chief's answer came back pat:

"Well, hardly that, Tester. Shall we say, Let us eat and drink, but not too much, or we shall
have a stomach-ache to-morrow?"

He had taken Tester's quite erroneous estimate as a basis, and had exactly hit off Horace's
character.

But the following incident more than any other brought home to Gordon how extraordinarily broadminded
the Chief was. Carter was construing, and had made a most preposterous howler, it does not
matter what. He had learnt the translation in the notes by heart, and quite failed to connect
it verbatim with the Greek.

"There now, you see how utterly absurd you are," said the Chief. "You have not taken the trouble
to look the words up in a dictionary. Just because you see what you think is a literal translation
in the notes. There lies the fatal error of using cribs. Of course when I catch a boy in Shell
or IV. A using one, I drop on him not only for slackness but dishonesty. The boy is taking
an unfair advantage of the rest and getting promotion undeservedly. But in the Sixth Form you
have got beyond that stage. We don't worry much about marks here, so there is nothing immoral
in using a crib. It is merely silly. It tends to slack translation which in the end ruins scholarship.
And by using the notes as you do, Carter, you are doing the same thing. You really must use
more common-sense. Go on, please, Harding."

Gordon was amazed at such a broadminded view of cribbing. He had long since grown weary of
preachers who talked about dishonesty, without seeming to draw a line between active dishonesty
and passive slackness. The Chief realised that it was deliberate slackness that led to dishonesty,
not dishonesty that was incidentally slack. The Chief must be a very wise man.

Nevertheless his admiration of the Chief did not make him do any more work than was strictly
necessary; and Gordon began to drift into a peaceful academic groove, where he did just enough
work to pass unnoticed--neither good nor bad. He had grown tired of ragging. It was such an
effort, especially when the call of football demanded of every ounce of energy. To drift down-stream
may spell mediocrity, but it also spells security, and, after all, there was little danger
of Gordon becoming a mediocrity in other branches of school life. He was far too ambitious
for that, but his ambitions were not academic. House politics and athletics were sufficient
burdens for one man in one lifetime. "Other heights in other lives"; and Gordon believed in
doing a few things well.

It was more than lucky for Gordon's future that this term he found himself a success on the
football field. If he had not, he would probably have sought a prominent position in the eyes
of the school by more doubtful paths; but as it was there was no need for him to plunge into
wild escapades to get noticed. His football attracted quite enough attention. People spoke
of his chances of getting into the Fifteen next year. The Milton match was his greatest triumph,
mainly because the rest of the side did badly. Lovelace played back and made one or two fine
runs when he got the ball, but as a whole the side played very half-heartedly. Burgoyne was
off colour, and Collins's excuse that he had been overworking lately did not save him from
being kicked out of the side after the match. But Gordon, who had got his Colts' badge on the
morning of the match, and so was relieved of any anxieties about his place, played what he
always said was his best game; so much so, in fact, that Buller after the match, said:

"Rotten, absolutely rotten, with the exception of Caruthers, who played magnificently."

There was only one blot on his performance, and that, though everyone laughed about it, caused
Gordon some regretful moments afterwards. Rightly or wrongly Gordon thought the opposite scrum
half was not putting the ball in straight. Gordon told him what he thought of him. The scrum
half called him "a bloody interfering bastard," and told him to go to hell. The next time the
scrum half got the ball Gordon flung him with unnecessary force, when he was already in touch,
right into the ropes. And from then onwards the relations between Gordon and the scrum half
were those of a scrapping match. Gordon came off best. He got a bruise on the left thigh, but
no one could notice that, while his opponent had a bleeding nose and a cut lip. The school
was amused, but Gordon overheard a Milton man say: "I don't think much of the way these Fernhurst
men play the game. Look at that tick of a forward there. Dirty swine!"

After the game Gordon apologised to the half, and exchanged the usual compliments; but he could
see that the rest of the Milton side were not at all pleased.

He spoke to Mansell about it.

"My dear man, don't you worry. You played a jolly fine game this afternoon, and if you go on
like that you are a cert. for your Firsts next year. You played a damned hard game."

"Yes; but it is rather a bad thing for the school, isn't it, if we get a reputation for playing
rough?"

"But you weren't playing foul, and Buller always tells us to go hard and play as rough as we like."

"Yes; but still----"

He was not quite reassured, though everyone told him it was all right. However, if "the Bull"
made no comment, it looked as if nothing could be wrong. As a matter of fact, "the Bull" had
not noticed; and though Christy, in a fit of righteous indignation, poured out a long story
to him, he only smiled.

"Oh, well, I expect he got a bit excited. First time he had played footer for a school side....
I was a bit fierce my first game for England. Don't blame him. He's a keen kid, and I am sure
the other side did not mind."

Christy mumbled indistinctly. No one ever seemed to take much notice of what he said. That
evening, however, he and Rogers, over a glass of port, agreed that Caruthers was a thoroughly
objectionable young fellow who ought to be taken in hand, and with this Christian sentiment
to inspire him Rogers went home to put a few finishing touches to his sermon for the next day.

CHAPTER II: CARNIVAL

The tradition of Pack Monday Fair at Fernhurst is almost as old as the School House studies.
The legend, whether authenticated or not only Macdonald, the historian of Fernhurst, could
say, was handed down from generation to generation. It was believed that, when the building
of the Abbey was finished, all the masons, glass-workers and artificers packed up their tools
and paraded the town with music and song, celebrating the glory of their accomplished work.
And from time immemorial the townspeople have celebrated the second Monday in October by assembling
outside the Abbey at midnight, and ushering in a day of marketing and revelry by a procession
through the town, beating tin cans and blowing upon posthorns. With the exception of this ritual,
the day had become merely an ordinary fair. But there was no sleeping on that Sunday night,
and for the whole week tantalising sounds of shrieking merry-go-rounds, of whistling tramcars
and thundering switchbacks were borne across the night to disturb those who were trying to
work in hall. It used to be the custom for the bloods to creep out at night and take part in
the revels; but when the new Chief had come, four years before, he put a firm hand upon such
abuses, and had even threatened to expel anyone he found in the act, a threat which he had
carried out promptly by expelling the best half-back in the school a fortnight before the Dulbridge
match; so that now only a few daring spirits stole out in the small hours of the night on the
hazardous expedition. Those courageous souls were the objects of the deepest veneration among
the smaller boys, who would whisper quietly of their doings in the upper dormitories when darkness
lent a general security to the secrets that were being revealed.

This term about three days before Pack Monday, Gordon, Mansell, Carter and a few others were
engaged in their favourite hobby of shipping Rudd's study. One chair had already gone the way
of all old wood, and the table was in danger of following it, when Rudd suddenly burst out:

"Oh, you think yourselves damned fine fellows, six of you against one!"

A roar of laughter went up. It was the traditional complaint of all weaklings in school stories,
and was singularly of the preparatory school type of defence.

"Jolly brave, aren't you? I'd like to see any one of you do anything that might get you into
trouble. I don't mind betting there's not one of you that would dare to come out with me to
the fair next Monday."

There was an awkward pause. The challenge was unconventional; and the Public School boy is
not brought up to expect surprises. The only thing to do was to pass it off with a joke.

Lovelace stepped into the breach.

"Do you think any of us would go anywhere with a swine like you who does not wash? Dirty hog!"

"Of course you would not; you are afraid."

At that point Gordon's hatred of taking the second place, which had before led him into difficulties,
once again asserted itself. "Damn it all," he thought, "I am not going to be beaten by Rudd!"

"Do you say we are all funks if we don't go?"

"Yes!"

"All right then, damn you, I will go with you, just to show you that you are not the only person
in this rotten school who's fool enough to risk being bunked."

Rudd was taken aback. He had made the challenge out of bravado. He had regretted it instantly.
In the same spirit Gordon had accepted the challenge; he also wished he had not the moment
afterwards. But both saw that they would have to go through with it now.

"Good man," said Rudd, not to be outdone. "I wanted someone to go with me; rather lonely these
little excursions without company."

He spoke with the air of one who spent every other night giving dinner-parties at the Eversham Tap.

"Look here, now," broke in Mansell, "don't make bloody fools of yourselves. You will only get
the sack if you are caught, and you probably will get caught; you are sure to do something
silly. For God's sake, don't go. It's not worth it. Really, not!"

"Oh, shut up; don't panic," was Gordon's scornful answer; "we are going to have a fine time,
aren't we, Rudd?"

"Splendid," said Rudd, who wanted to laugh; the whole situation was fraught with such a perfectly
impossible irony.

"Oh, do have some sense, man." Lovelace was impatient with him. "What is the use of rushing
about at midnight in slouch hats with a lot of silly, shrieking girls?"

"You can't understand, you live in the country. I am a Londoner. You want the true Cockney
spirit that goes rolling drunk on Hampstead Heath on Easter Monday."

"Well, thank God, I do want it, then," said Lovelace.

Rumour flies round a house quickly. In hall several people came up and asked Gordon if it was
true. They looked at him curiously with an expression in which surprise and admiration were
curiously blended. The old love of notoriety swept over Gordon once more; he felt frightfully
bucked with himself. What a devil of a fellow he was, to be sure. He went round the studies
in hall, proclaiming his audacity.

"I say, look here, old chap, you needn't tell anyone, but I am going out to Pack Monday Fair;
it will be some rag!"

The sensation he caused was highly gratifying. By prayers all his friends and most of his acquaintances
knew of it. Of course they would keep it secret. But Gordon knew well that by break next day
it would be round the outhouses, and he looked forward to the number of questions he would
get asked. To be the hero of an impending escapade was pleasant.

"I say, Davenport," he said in his dormitory that evening, "I am going out to the fair on Monday."

Davenport said nothing, and showed no sign of surprise. Gordon was disappointed.

"Well, what do you think of it?" he said at last.

"That you are a sillier ass than I thought you were," said Davenport.

And as Gordon lay thinking over everything in the dark, he came to the conclusion that Davenport
was not so very far wrong after all.

       *       *       *       *       *

Cold and nervous, Gordon waited for Rudd in the dark boot-hole under the Chief's study on Pack
Monday night just before twelve. In stockinged feet he had crept downstairs, opened the creaking
door without making any appreciable noise, and then waited in the boot-room, which was filled
with the odour of blacking and damp decay. There was a small window at the end of it, through
which it was just possible to squeeze out on to the Chief's front lawn. After that all was
easy; anyone could clamber over the wall by the V. A green.

There was the sound of feet on the stairs. It seemed to Gordon as if they were bound to wake
the whole house. Rudd's figure was framed black in the doorway.

Silently they wormed their way through the window. The damp soil of a flower bed was cold under
their feet; with his hand Rudd smoothed out the footprints.

They stole down the silent cloisters, echoing shadows leered at them. The wall of the V. A
green rose dark and sinister. At last breathless among the tombstones by the Abbey they slipped
on their boots, turned up coat collars and drew their caps over their eyes.

A minute later the glaring lights of the booths in Cheap Street engulfed them. They were jostled
in the crowd. It was, after all, only Hampstead Heath on a small scale.

"Walk up, walk up! All the fun of the fair! Buy a teazer! Buy a teazer! Buy a teazer! Tickle
the girls! Walk up! Try your luck at the darts, sir; now then, sir, come on!"

The confused roar was as music to Gordon's soul. He had the Cockney love of a fair. The children
of London are still true to the coster legends of the Old Kent Road.

Gordon and Rudd did not stop long in Cheap Street. The real business was in the fair fields
by Rogers's house. This was only the outskirts.

The next hour passed in a dream. Lights flared, rifles snapped at fugitive ping-pong balls
leaping on cascades of water, swing-boats rose heavenwards, merry-go-rounds banged out rag-time
choruses. Gordon let himself go. He and Rudd tried everything. After wasting half-a-crown on
the cocoanuts, Rudd captured first go at the darts a wonderful vase decorated with the gilt
legend, "A Present from Fernhurst," and Gordon at the rifle range won a beautiful china shepherdess
which held for days the admiration of the School House, until pining perhaps for its lover,
which by no outlay of darts could Gordon secure, it became dislodged from the bracket and fell
in pieces on the floor, to be swept away by Arthur, the school custos, into the perpetual darkness
of the dustbin.

Weary at last, the pair sought the shelter of a small café, where they luxuriously sipped lemonade.
Faces arose out of the night, passed by and faded out again. The sky was red with pleasure,
the noise and shrieks grew louder and more insistent. There was a dance going on.

"I say, Rudd, do you dance?"

"No, not much."

"Well, look here, I can, a bit; at any rate I am going to have a bit of fun over there. Let
us go on our own for a bit. Meet me here at a quarter to four."

"Right," said Rudd, and continued sipping the lurid poison that called itself American cream
soda, and was in reality merely a cheap illness.

Gordon walked in the direction of the dancing. The grass had been cut quite short in a circle,
and to the time of a broken band the town dandies were whirling round, flushed with excitement
and the close proximity of a female form. "The Mænads and the Bassarids," murmured Gordon to
himself, and cursed his luck for not knowing any of the girls. Disconsolately he wandered across
to the Bijou Theatre, a tumble-down hut where a huge crowd was jostling and shouting.

He ran into something and half apologised.

"Oh, don't mind me," a high-pitched voice shrieked excitedly.

He turned round and saw the flushed face of a girl of about nineteen looking up at him. She
was alone.

"I say," Gordon muttered nervously, "you look a bit lonely, come and have some ginger beer."

"Orl right. I don't mind. Give us your arm!"

They rolled off to a neighbouring stall, where Gordon stood his Juliet countless lemonades
and chocolates. He felt very brave and grown-up, and thought contemptuously of Davenport in
bed dreaming some fatuous dream, while he was engulfed in noise and colour. This was life.
From the stall the two wandered to the swing-boats, and towering high above the tawdry glitter
of the revel saw through the red mist the Abbey, austere and still, the School House dormitories
stretching silent with suspended life, the class-rooms peopled with ghosts.

A plank jarred under the boat.

"Garn, surely it ain't time to stop yet," wailed Emmie.

He had gathered enough courage to ask her her name.

"Have another?" pleaded Gordon.

"No; let us try the lively thing over there. These boats do make me feel so funny-like."

The merry-go-round was just stopping. There was a rush for the horses. Gordon leapt on one,
and leaning down caught Emmie up and sat her in front of him; she lay back in his arms in a
languor of satisfied excitement. Her hair blew across his face, stifling him; on every side
couples were hugging and squeezing. The sensuous whirl of the machine was acting as a narcotic,
numbing thought. He caught her flushed, tired face in his hands and kissed her wildly, beside
himself with the excitement of the moment.

"You don't mind, do you?" he murmured in a hoarse whisper.

"Don't be so silly; I have been waiting for that. Now we can get comfy-like."

Her arms were round his neck, her flushed face was hot on his, her hair hung over his shoulders.
The strains of You Made Me Love You came inarticulate with passion out of the shrieking organ.
Her elbow nudged him. Her lips were as fire beneath his. The machine slowed down and stopped.
Gordon paid for five extra rounds. Dazed with new and hitherto unrealised sensations, Gordon
forgot everything but the strange warm thing nestling in his arms; and he abandoned himself
to the passion of the moment.

At last their time was up. Closely, her hair on his shoulder, they moved to the dancing circle,
and plunged into the throng of the shouting, jostling dancers. Of the next two hours Gordon
could remember nothing. He had vague recollections of streaming hair, of warm hands, and of
fierce, wild kisses. Lights flickered, shot skywards, and went out. Forms loomed before him,
a strange weariness came over him, he remembered flinging himself beside her in the grass and
burying his face in her hair. She seemed to speak as from a very long way off. Once more the
dance caught them. Then Auld Lang Syne struck up. Hands were clasped, a circle swayed riotously.
There were promises to meet next night, promises that neither meant to keep. Rudd was waiting
impatiently at the café. Once more the wall by the Abbey rose spectral, once more the cloisters
echoed vaguely. The boot-hole window creaked.

As the dawn broke tempestuously in the sky Gordon fell across his bed, his brain tired with
a thousand memories, all fugitive, all vague, all exquisitely unsubstantial.

       *       *       *       *       *

With heavy, tired eyes Gordon ran down to breakfast a second before time. He felt utterly weary,
exhausted, incapable of effort. People came up and asked him in whispers if everything had
turned out well. He answered absentmindedly, incoherently.

"I don't believe you went there at all," a voice jeered.

Gordon did not reply. He merely put his hand in his pocket and pulled out the china shepherdess
that he was about to place on the rickety study bracket.

Doubt was silenced.

The long hours of morning school passed by on leaden feet; he seemed unable to answer any question
right; even the Chief was annoyed.

Rain fell in torrents. The Colts game was scratched.

On a pile of cushions laid on the floor Gordon slept away the whole afternoon. From four to
six he had to write a Greek Prose in his study. The tea bell scattered his dreams. He rose
languidly, with the unpleasant sensation of work unfinished.

The row of faces at tea seemed to frighten him. He felt as if he had awakened out of a nightmare,
that still held on to him with cold, clammy hands, and was trying to draw him back once more
into its web. Visions rose before him of shrieking showmen's booths, blinking with tawdry yellow
eyes. Emmie's hoarse laugh grated on his ears; he was overwrought and wanted to shout, to shriek,
to give some vent to his feelings. But he seemed chained to the long bench, and his tongue
was tied so that he could only mouth out silly platitudes about the weather and the Fifteen's
chances.

On his way back to the studies he felt an arm laid in his. He shivered and turned round, half
expecting to see Emmie's flushed, exciting face peering up at him. He almost sighed with relief
when he found it was Tester.

"Look here, just come for a stroll round the courts. The rain's stopped. I want to talk to you."

They wandered out under the lindens.

"I suppose you did go out last night, didn't you?"

"Yes."

"What on earth did you do it for?"

"I am sick of the whole affair," Gordon said petulantly. "Rudd called the lot of us funks, so----"

"I know that tale quite well," Tester broke in. "I want to know why you went out. At least
I don't mean that. I mean to tell you why you went out, because I don't think you know yourself.
You have made an awful fool of yourself. You have run the risk of getting sacked, merely because
you wanted to be talked about."

"I didn't. I went because I was jolly well not going to have Rudd calling me a funk."

"Comes to the same thing in the end, doesn't it? You did not want to play second fiddle; you
didn't want Rudd to appear to have scored. You wanted to be the central figure. Much the same,
isn't it? The love of notoriety."

Gordon murmured something inaudible.

"And it is all so damned silly. You are running the risk of getting the sack, and for nothing
at all. I can understand quite well anyone being drawn into anything dangerous by a strong
emotion or feeling. It is natural. Masters say we should curb our natures. I don't know if
they are right. That's neither here nor there. There was nothing natural in what you did. It
was merely rotten imbecility--your self-consciousness, your fear of not seeming to have done
the right thing. You can't go on like this. I own that this term you have been more or less
sane. The last two terms I have often wondered what was going to happen to you. You had no
balance; you kept on doing silly little things so as to hold the attention of a more stupid
audience. This term you have stopped that sort of rot. But what is the use of it going to be,
if you go and do things like this on the impulse of the moment, merely because you don't want
to look silly? You can't think how much more silly you look by playing the ruddy ass during
the small hours inside a stinking booth! You can't afford to do that sort of thing. Your ambition
is to be captain of the House, and not a bad ambition either. But do you realise that if you
are going to be a real power in the House, if you are going to fight the masters, as you say
you will, you can't afford to fling away points? You must appear impregnable. Don't be an ass.
A master holds all the high cards. If you play into his hand, he has you done to the world.
Suppose you were caught going out at night your last year, what would happen? You might get
the sack at once; and all your rebellion would be wasted. And, mark you, a rebellion is wanted.
There is real need of a man who has the strength of his opinions and sticks out. What's the
use of it if you go and get sacked? Of course, they might keep you on, and ask you to go at
the end of the term to save your face. What would your position be then? You would be bound
hand and foot, powerless to do anything. Life would slip past you. You have got to be above
suspicion. Think, however much you may want to do a thing now, however much praise you may
think an action of yours would get, stop and consider how it will appear two years hence. A
really serious row might knock you out for the rest of your time here: a bad name sticks. Remember
that. Think of the day when you are going to be a real power, and stand up for the independence
of the individual to think as he likes, not as Buller likes; for the independence of the House
to run itself. 'The Bull' runs our house to-day. You hear men say, 'We can't do that, Buller
would be sick!' You have to free them of Buller's tyranny, if you are going to be a man; and
if you do, you can't fight in rusty armour. These masters may be fools, but they have the cards."

Gordon listened to Tester's flow of words. He was furious. But when at last lights were put
out and he lay back in bed and watched the stars steadfast in love and splendour, and the moon
immutable, enigmatic, smiling quietly, he appreciated the truth of Tester's argument. A great
battle was before him; he would have to go into it strong and prepared at every point. There
must be no chink in his coat of mail.

Some day his hour would come; till then he had to wait in patience, and during the long vigil
he would keep his shield clean of rust. He would have to think, to weigh his decisions, to
keep before his eyes the goal towards which his ambition was set.

CHAPTER III: BROADENING OUTLOOK

Like a huge reel of thread the long winter term unrolled itself. November drifted by with its
gusty winds that shrieked in the empty cloisters. December came with its dark mornings and
steadily falling rains. The First Fifteen matches were over. Dulbridge and Tonford had both
been beaten handsomely; Mansell had got his Firsts. The Colts drew at Limborne, and finished
their season with an overwhelming victory over Weybridge. House games began again, and the
Thirds and Two Cock became the only possible topics of conversation. During the first half
of the term Hazelton, as was inevitable, had had to spend nearly all his time in First Fifteen
puntabouts and upper ground games. The House had seen little of him. But now, with all the
big matches over, and only the old Fernhurstians' match to come on the last Saturday of the
term, he had time to devote all his energies to the training of house sides. If he had not
talked so much he would have been one of the strong, silent Englishmen. For to all outward
appearances he was taciturn, unimaginative, self-willed. But he had a very nasty tongue, and
never hesitated to use it at the expense of his enemies. As a house captain he was a distinct
success. He knew the game well, and was able to inspire a keenness that was not jingoistic.
He also had the rare virtue of knowing where to stop. He never made sides play on till they
were speechless with fatigue, as some over-enthusiastic house captains had been known to do.
He was very popular with his sides.

Every evening before hall there congregated in Gordon's study all the old faces of his first
year, with one or two new ones. Nowhere so easily as at a Public School does one find oneself
drifting apart from an old acquaintance; not for any real reason, not for any quarrel, but
merely because circumstances seem to will it so. But when the thought of House matches returned,
the old lot came back together to fight their battles over again, and to dream of the silver
cups glittering below the statue of Edward VI. They were all there: Hunter, who had seemed
to pass almost out of Gordon's life since he had begun to play in the Fifteen; Mansell, who
now spent much of his time with Hazelton; Betteridge, who was more often than not with Harding.
No. 1 Study was very convenient. Roll was held just outside, and when the prefect's voice was
heard calling the first name the door would be flung open, and still reclining in arm-chairs
they shouted out the immemorial "sum." About five minutes before the hour of roll-call juniors
from the day-room and the farther studies would begin to collect round the hot pipes in the
passage, fearful of being late. Then in No. 1 Lovelace would wind up the gramophone, and the
strains of When the Midnight Choo-choo leaves for Alabama broke out with deafening violence.
The concert lasted till the first strokes of the hour had boomed out. Roll over, they all separated
to their various studies. Lovelace took out his Sportsman and began to total up his winnings;
Gordon either lay full length in the hammock, a new and much envied acquisition which was slung
across from door to window, and read for the hundredth time the haunting melodies of Rococo,
or else, as was more usual, wandered round the studies with the magnificent air of indifference
that marked all members of the Sixth.

Then came prayers; after which Gordon and Davenport made for the seclusion of their double
dormitory. Lights were out at nine-fifteen for the big upper dormitories, and till then they
used to wander down the passage for the ostensible reason of getting hot water, but in reality
to watch, with the superior air of Olympians, the life of lesser breeds. They imagined themselves
great bloods during these few minutes after prayers. Sometimes when the House tutor was supposed
to be out they would join in a game of football in the passage; but as they were caught once
and each got a Georgic, this pastime lost its charm. Usually they lolled in the doorway with
a perfect superiority, and talked of the old "rags" and discomfitures of two years back, for
the benefit of admiring listeners.

"Do you remember when Mansell slept in that bed?" Gordon would say.

"No; I was not here that term," Davenport would reply; "but I sha'n't forget when the Chief
found Betteridge's bed pitched on the floor, with Betteridge underneath and Lovelace sitting
on top."

Was it possible, thought some small fry, that the great Mansell, who played for the Fifteen,
had once actually slept in the same bed as he occupied now? Had Betteridge, who had only that
night given half the day-room a hundred lines, once had his bed shipped on that very floor!
It all seemed like a gigantic fairy story. And to think that Caruthers had seen these things!

But they were not long, these moments of the assumption of the godhead. Darkness soon fell
on the long passage, and only whispered talking sounded faint and far away. Gordon and Davenport
then went back to their room, and on evenings after a hard game they had a small supper. They
had managed to discover a loose board, and the floor space caused by its removal served as
a cupboard, a cupboard so damp and unhealthy that the most lenient sanitary inspector must
infallibly have condemned it. Here, just before afternoon school, they secreted ginger beer
bottles, a loaf of bread, butter, some tomatoes and a chunk of Gorgonzola cheese. In the morning
they carried away the bottles in their pockets. It would have been much easier and much more
comfortable to have had a meal in their study, but then it would have lacked the savour of
romance. The rule forbidding the importation of food into the dormitories was very strict.
At the end of the term, when both were going to leave that particular room, they nailed down
the board, so that no other marauder should imitate them. They wished to be unique. But before
they did so, they put in the mouldy cupboard a lemonade bottle and one of the blue Fernhurst
roll-books for the Michaelmas Term, 1913. They underlined their names in it, and left it as
a memento of a few happy evenings.

"I wonder," said Caruthers, "if years hence someone will pull up that board and find the book,
and seeing our names will wonder who we were."

"Perhaps," said Davenport. "And, you know, they may try and find out something about us in
back numbers of The Fernhurstian, or in the photographs of house sides. Do you think they will
be able to find out anything about us?"

"I hope so; but how little we know even of the bloods of 1905, and as likely as not we sha'n't
ever be bloods. It will be rather funny if some day of all the things we have done nothing
remains but the blue roll-book."

"Funny?" said Davenport. "Rather pathetic, I should say."

At fifteen one is apt to be sentimental.

Perhaps some rude fingers have already torn up that board; perhaps even now some new generation
of Fernhurstians is using it as a receptacle for tobacco, or cheese, or any other commodity
contraband to the dormitories. But perhaps underneath a board in No. 1 double dormitory there
still repose that identical lemonade bottle and the roll-book with its blue cover, now sadly
faded and its leaves turned up with age, to serve as Gordon's epitaph, when all his other deeds
have perished in oblivion.

       *       *       *       *       *

There is perhaps nothing that has made so many friendships as a big row, or the prospect of
one. We always feel in sympathy with people whose aims are identical with our own, and the
principals in some big row or escapade cannot help being bound close together by common ties.
A mutual danger has brought together many ill-assorted pairs, and among others it showed Gordon
and Rudd that they had something in common with one another. Gordon had always looked upon
Rudd as a guileless ass who was no good at games, did nothing for the House, and was only useful
as the universal provider of cribs. But after the Pack Monday Fair incident Gordon saw that
there was in Rudd a something which, if not exactly to be admired, came very near it. It was
a daring thing to challenge anyone who was willing to come to the fair with him, and he had
not shown the slightest wish to back out of his agreement. Gordon decided to make his better
acquaintance, and in the process was brought face to face with another fresh character, a type
that was to set before him different aims and standards. For Gordon was sharp enough to see
more or less below the surface. Rudd was a new type to him. It was clear that he had some merits,
especially pluck; and yet he was no good at games, and, what was more extraordinary, did not
seem in the least worried about his failures. Gordon had always pitied those who could not
scrape into the Thirds.

"Poor devils!" he used to say in the arrogance of his own self-satisfaction. "I expect they
tried just as much as we did. And it must be pretty awful for them to realise that they are
no real use at games at all."

He had never thought it possible that anyone with the slightest claims to respectability could
be quite indifferent to athletic success. But Rudd was, after all, a presentable fellow, and
yet he did not mind in the least.

It was all very strange.

Only by trying to see the points of view of others do we get any real idea of the trend of
human thought. It is quite useless to start life with fixed standards, and try to bring everyone
to realise their virtues. We must have some standard, it is true, or we should be as rudderless
boats; but it is of paramount importance that our standards should be sufficiently elastic
to include new movements; and not until we have tried and weighed in the balance, and considered
and sifted the philosophies of others, should we attempt to form a philosophy for ourselves.

By nature Gordon was arrogant and self-satisfied; but by meeting types different from himself
and in their company gaining glimpses of goals other than his own, his character was undoubtedly
broadened, his horizon extended, and he managed to get things into better proportion.

For several people just at this time were influencing Gordon. But none more so than Ferrers.
Ever since the Stoics debate Gordon had become a profound admirer of the new master, who had
banged into the cloistered Fernhurst life, bubbling over with the ideas of the rising generation,
intolerant of prejudice and tradition, clamorous for reform. It was a great sight to see him
walking about the courts. He was nearly always dressed the same, in his blue woollen waistcoat,
soft collar and serge suit. He never walked anywhere without at least two books under his arm.
He was recognisable at once. If a stranger had glanced round the courts in break, and had been
asked afterwards if any of the masters had attracted his attention, he might perhaps have mentioned
"the Bull's" powerful roll; with a smile he might have remarked on the prelatical Rogers, stalking
like Buckingham "half in heaven." There were six or seven he might have noticed, but there
was only one person whom he must have seen, whom he could not possibly have failed to pick
out immediately, and that was Ferrers. Personality was written on every feature of his face,
every movement was typical of youthful vigour and action. His half-contemptuous swing suggested
a complete scorn of everything known before 1912. He was the great god of Gordon's soul, greater
even than Lovelace major had been, far greater than Meredith.

As he sat listening to Finnemore discussing artistic questions in form, he felt wildly impatient
to hear Ferrer's opinion. Nothing seemed settled definitely until Ferrers had spoken, and only
the Army and Matriculation classes had the tremendous advantages of doing English with him.
Most of Ferrer's time was wasted in attempts to drive home mathematical theories into the dense
brain of a lower school set.

As to his influence in the school there could be no two opinions. The bloods, of course, were
too completely settled in their grooves of Philistinism and self-worship to feel the force
of innovation. But even on a mild character like Foster's his effect was startling. Ferrer's
great theory was: "Let boys take their own time. The adage that it does a boy good to do what
he hates may be all right for the classics, but it is no good to try that game with literature.
Find out what a boy likes. Encourage him, show you are in sympathy with his taste, and once
in his confidence gradually lead him step by step to the real stuff. He will follow you, if
you only make out you like what he likes. A boy hates the superior attitude of 'Oh, quite good
in its way, of course.' A master must get to the boy's level; it is fatuous to try and drag
the boy to his at once." And there is abundant proof to show that this plan was a success.
When Ferrers first came, Foster, for example, read nothing but Kipling and Guy Boothby. During
his last term Gordon found him absorbed in Vanity Fair and The Duchess of Malfi. It would be
difficult to over-estimate the good Ferrers did at Fernhurst. From afar Gordon worshipped him.
He learnt from Foster what Ferrers had read to his form and what he recommended them to read,
and as soon as he could he borrowed or bought the book. The school book-shop about this time
began to find in Gordon its most generous patron. At times Gordon would tell Foster to ask
Ferrers questions that interested him. And the answers, usually a little vague and elastic,
spurred Gordon on to fresh fields. His taste was beginning to grow, and football "shop" was
no longer his only topic of conversation.

CHAPTER IV: THIRDS

There was only one thing that at all worried Gordon just now, and that was the behaviour of
the Hazlitt brethren. Mention has already been made of this couple. During their first few
terms they gave every promise of developing into the very worst types that banality and athletic
success can produce, and these expectations had been abundantly fulfilled. The elder brother
had his points, but they were few, the chief one being that he was fairly good at games, which,
after all, is but a negative quality. But the younger, who was as useless as he was generally
officious, was entirely devoid of any redeeming feature. His ways were the ways of a slum child
playing in the gutter, and his sense of humour was limited to shouting rude remarks after other
people, knocking off hats, and then running away. His language was foul enough to disgust even
a Public School's taste. Gordon loathed him. One evening he and Lovelace discussed the child.

"Look here," said Gordon, "it's no good, this. That unutterable little tick Hazlitt knocked
off my hat as I was looking at the notice-board to-day, and I am not going to stand it. By
the time I had turned round he was half-way across the courts."

"The little swine! He is not fit to be in a decent school. If he can't get rid of the habits
he learnt with street cads in the holidays of his own accord, he'll have to be kicked out of
them. We will wait for him one day, and if we see him knock a School House straw off, my God,
we will boot him to blazes!"

"Right you are. It won't be bullying. It will be treating a dirty beast in the only way he
can understand."

About three days later, from their study window, they saw Hazlitt minor proceeding to the notice-board
after lunch. They left their study and walked into the cloisters.

Hazlitt minor read the notices, discovered that, as he was posted on no game, he must of necessity
take himself to the "pick-up," and then looked round. Davenham was conscientiously perusing
a notice, although there was no likelihood of his own name appearing on any. (It is almost
true to say that nobody looked at the board except the people about whom there are no notices
to read.) There was an announcement four days old to the effect that C.J. Mansell had been
presented with his First Fifteen colours. Davenham seemed to find it vastly interesting. Hazlitt
stole up behind, and knocked his hat flying across the cloister. In a second Gordon and Lovelace
were on him. They did not care in the very least what happened to Davenham. He played no part
in their life. But a School House man had been "cheeked" by a filthy little outhouse swab.
These aliens had to be taught their place.

"What do you mean by that, you awful tick?" shouted Lovelace. "Davenham, go and fetch a hockey
stick from Tester's study."

Hazlitt let out with his feet and caught Gordon on the ankle, but the horrible hack he got
in return quieted him.

Davenham appeared with a hockey stick.

Gordon managed to get Hazlitt's head between his knees, and Lovelace began to give that worthy
a beating he was never likely to forget. In a few minutes he was blubbering for mercy. Fletcher
passed by.

"Here you are, Archie," yelled Gordon; "come and have a shot at this swine Hazlitt; we are
teaching him that he can't go about knocking off School House hats with impunity."

"Right you are, my lads."

By the time Archie had finished, Hazlitt had almost collapsed. Gordon let him go, and with
a hefty boot sent him flying into the cloisters.

"I don't think we shall have any more of him for a bit," said Lovelace, with satisfaction.

"No; these outhouse lads want showing their place from time to time. The School House, after
all, is the place. We are like Rome, the mother city; the other outhouses are merely provinces
of ours. Jolly good of us to let them use our buildings at all. Come and change; we have done
a good deed, my friends."

But the matter did not end there. That evening in Buller's dormitories Hazlitt told a story
of how Caruthers had been bullying him for no reason, and hacking him till he could hardly
sit down. He left out Lovelace's name, because Lovelace was popular with the Buller's crowd.
News of this reached Felston, the second prefect. He fumed with rage, and sought Gregory, the
Buller's house captain.

"Have you heard the latest? That swine Caruthers has been bullying Hazlitt. He drove him all
round the cloisters, hitting him with a hockey stick."

"Good God, the swine! Did he really! My word, I'll lay him out in the Three Cock. You wait,
that's all. When he plays in the Three Cock, I'll lay him out for dead in the first ten minutes."

In due course this story found its way to the Buller's day-room, where was great rejoicing.
So Caruthers was going to be laid out, was he? How damned funny! Hazlitt's heart leapt within
him. His evil little mind pictured Gordon being carried off the field, absolutely smashed up.
He gloated.

Gordon laughed when he heard of it.

"Oh, well, at any rate I shall have my shot at them first in the Thirds and Two Cock."

He was secretly rather pleased to see that even his enemies had not the slightest doubt about
his getting a place in the Three Cock. A House cap was just then his great ambition. But for
all that he suffered considerable annoyance. Whenever he went up to the tuck-shop a voice from
the Buller's doorway croaked: "Wait for the Three Cock!"

At first it was rather amusing. But soon it got distinctly tiresome. Deep in his heart he cursed
the tick Hazlitt and the whole Buller crowd. A joke could be carried to an extreme. And it
slowly dawned on him that, if he did play in the Three Cock, he was in for a remarkably thin time.

Almost the last words he heard as the eight-forty swept out of Fernhurst station on the last
morning, with its waving hands and shoutings, was a shriek from the Buller's day-room: "Wait
for the Three Cock!" Gordon laughed for a second, and then looked bored. The jest had ceased
to have a shred of humour left upon it. It was naked and ought to be ashamed.

The Easter term opened in the conventional way with rain, slush and influenza. The fields were
flooded, the country a lake; the bare branches dripped incessantly. But for all that the first
round of the Thirds began on the first Saturday.

Buller's drew Rogers's. There was no doubt as to the result. It would be a walk-over for Buller's,
though Burgoyne might get over the line once or twice.

There was a crowd in front of the pavilion.

"Well, do something, at any rate," said Gordon. "Don't let Buller's get above themselves. You
keep them in order."

"Oh yes, we'll sit on them!" laughed Burgoyne. "By the way, I think it would be rather a good
scheme to lay out Hazlitt minor, don't you?"

Never did any forward in any house match at Fernhurst take the field without the sworn intention
of laying out some hated opponent. Nevertheless during the whole time Gordon was at school
only one boy was hurt so badly that he had to leave the field. And that was an accident. He
broke his collar-bone, falling over by the goal-posts. It had become almost a custom to state
whom you were going to lay out before the match. The idea sounds brutal, but it never led to
anything. Gordon knew this as well as anyone.

"Good man! And look here, if you do, I'll give you a bob."

"A bargain?"

"Of course."

"Right, my lad. We will have a good supper to-night in my study."

The match followed the ordinary course. Frenzied juniors rushed up and down the touch-line
inarticulate with excitement; the bloods, strolling arm in arm, patronised the game mildly.
Buller's won very easily. Hazlitt played quite decently and scored once. Burgoyne went supperless.

The second and third rounds were played; everywhere Buller's triumphed. No house was beaten
by less than forty points. Not a try was scored against them. Christy's, who had lost by forty-four
points to nil, had, as the least unsuccessful house, the doubtful honour of joining forces
with Buller's to play the School House in the final.

The betting was fairly even. Buller's thought they would win; the House, as usual, was certain
of victory. The school expected a level game, and on the whole wanted to see a School House
win. Buller's had had too much success of late years; and envy was inevitably at work.

The selection of the combined outhouse side caused a lot of consideration. There was once an
idea of playing Hazlitt minor, but much to the annoyance of the House this plan was, from the
outhouse point of view, wisely dropped. And now Jack Whitaker--he was always known as Jack--enters
the story.

Jack was a very decent sort of kid, much (in the School House estimation) above the standard
of Buller's day-room. He was a little rowdy and ostentatious, but had the justification of
being really good at something. He was a promising half-back, and his cricket was so good that
there was talk of his getting a trial for the School Eleven. Gordon and he got on rather well.
But he was very young; under fifteen, in fact, and very impetuous.

About a week before the Thirds "the Bull" was discussing the match in the dormitories. Jack
was very full of words.

"I say, sir, isn't it awfully lucky for Hazlitt that he is not playing?"

"The Bull" was surprised. Only that evening he had been talking with Hazlitt, and telling him
how sorry he was that there was no place for him in the side.

"Why, Jack? I don't know what you mean."

"Oh, well, you see, sir, all the School House fellows had sworn to lay him out!"

"You must not talk like that, Jack. It is not sporting. And it stirs up ill feeling in the
school. You can't honestly believe that any gentleman would play a game in that spirit. You
have no proof of what you say except mere rumour, I suppose. You mustn't talk like that."

"The Bull" was not at all pleased, and walked away to turn out the light. Whitaker saw he had
gone too far and had said more than he meant to. But he couldn't stand the idea that "the Bull"
should think he had been repeating merely idle chatter.

"But, sir, I know for certain that in the Christy's match the School House men were offering
money to Christy's to lay Hazlitt out."

Buller stopped with his hand on the gas-tap.

"That is a very serious accusation, Jack. Are you telling me that any Fernhurst boys so lack
sportsmanlike feeling as to bribe boys in other houses to lay out their rivals, so that it
will be easier for them to win."

"Oh, sir, I don't think that they meant that."

"Well, you said it, at any rate."

The gas went out suddenly. "The Bull" strode out without saying good-night. In his study he
turned over in his mind the extraordinary story he had heard. If what Jack had told him was
the truth, Fernhurst football, which was to him, and to many others, the finest thing in the
world, had become little better than league professionalism. Bribes were being offered for
men to be laid out. He had never heard of such a thing. There was no one to remind him that
the offering of bribes means little to a schoolboy, and the mere talk of "laying people out"
still less. It is all a question of custom, of the sense in which phrases are used by the particular
speakers who use them.

There are certain words which to-day are vulgar and disgusting, but which in the days of Shakespeare
would have been used in any company without a blush. And this is so merely because time has
given the words a different significance. Indeed, from the point of view of the average person,
to leave schoolmasters out of the question, the idea of offering bribes to lay out athletes
is revolting. And so it is. It is unsportsmanlike, unworthy of English traditions. But when
Gordon offered Burgoyne a shilling to lay out Hazlitt, although he said it was a bargain, he
meant nothing at all by his offer. He knew that Burgoyne, once he got on the field, could think
of nothing but the game, and would forget all about Hazlitt and himself. Everyone offered bribes,
but no one had been known to receive a penny of them. Still, Buller could not be expected to
know this. He saw in the affair a menace to the future of Fernhurst sport. Jack's story might
be only idle chatter, or it might have some foundation. At any rate he had got to go to the
bottom, and sift out the truth for the good of Fernhurst.

After evening chapel on the Sunday before the match the Chief sent for Gordon; when Gordon
arrived he found Harding, the head of the House, there too. The Chief looked worried. There
was a row in prospect. Gordon racked his brain to think of anything that could possibly have
been found out about him. Of course there were many old troubles that might have been raked
up. He had always realised that the hand of the past would still be near the shoulder of the
present. Yet, what had he been doing recently?

"Isn't Hazelton coming, Harding?" The Chief was speaking.

"Yes, sir; but I believe he is collecting chapel cards."

Hazelton too. Complications, forsooth. There was an awkward pause. Then Hazelton came in, quite
at his ease.

"Sir, the chapel cards; and I believe you wanted to see me, sir?"

"Ah, yes, Hazelton; put the cards on my desk. Now, Caruthers, I want to ask you a question
before the head and captain of the House that I hope you will answer truthfully. Did you offer
a boy in Mr Christy's house money to 'lay out,' I believe that was the phrase, a boy in Mr
Buller's house in the recent house match."

Gordon thought for a moment. Had he? It was quite likely he had; but he could not remember.
Then the scene came back. The crowd in front of the pavilion. Burgoyne: Hazlitt in the offing.

"Yes, sir," he replied, after the instant's hesitation.

"You seem rather doubtful about it."

"Well, sir, I was trying to remember whether I had or not."

The Chief was nettled by such apparent callousness.

"You talk as if you were in the habit of offering such rewards. Are you?"

"Well, sir, it is the sort of thing any fellow might do."

"That is neither here nor there. I doubt the truth of your statement very much. But even if
the school had become so generally demoralised as you suggest, that would not be any excuse
for you. As a matter of fact, how much did you offer the boy?"

"A shilling, sir."

"Was that a genuine offer, now? If he had done what you wanted him to, would you have paid him?"

Gordon was now well out of his depth. Explanation seemed impossible. Had the offer been genuine?
He supposed it had. If the tick had been laid out, Gordon would have been so delighted that
he would have stood the whole of Christy's drinks all round.

"Yes, sir," he said quite cheerfully.

A smile that rose to Hazelton's lips was instantly suppressed.

"Ah! rather like hiring assassins in the cheap novelettes. What was your idea? Did you think
Hazlitt would have been a help to the School side?"

"No, sir. I hardly think he would have been of much assistance to them."

The idea of Hazlitt being of any use to anyone was very amusing. Gordon always saw the funny
side of everything. As a ghost, he would probably have found something cynically amusing in
his own funeral.

"Then you did it merely out of spite, I suppose. Do you consider that the football field is
a suitable opportunity for the paying-off of old scores?"

Now, suppose Gordon had poured out the story of how Felston had sworn to lay him out in the
Three Cock, and how Hazlitt and others had flung the words "Three Cock" into his face for half
a term, it would have been certainly an extenuation. But he realised that Hazelton was present.
It would not be the proper thing, it would indeed be unpardonable cheek, for him to talk in
the presence of the House captain as though his chances of playing in the Three Cock were to
be taken for granted. It would be madness to imperil his chances on the football field, merely
because he wanted an excuse for a silly little row.

And so he did not answer.

"Well, Caruthers, I sha'n't want you any more. Thank you for being so frank in the matter.
As far as I can see, it is the only extenuating circumstance. Harding, Hazelton, one minute."

Gordon returned to the studies amused rather than disconcerted. He quite saw that the Chief,
with his high ideals, would refuse to allow two blacks to make a white, even if that black
were of the grey-black shade of which colour boys were allowed to get their school suits made,
and which produced anything from light grey to dark brown. He understood and respected the
Chief's point of view entirely. But with "the Bull" he was furious. No one but "the Bull" could
have reported him; and, "the Bull" after all, was an old Fernhurstian. He knew the school customs,
and unless his memory was decaying, must have remembered the wild way in which boys boast.
He must have known it; but "for the sake of Fernhurst," Buller would say, "this leprosy has
to be rooted out." Gordon began to wonder whether it was really a love of Fernhurst that was
his standard for all actions, or simply a supreme egotism, which embraced alternately his own
interest, his house's interest, and Fernhurst's interest, but never, under any circumstances,
never the School House interest!

Hazelton thought much the same. At the Chief's request he made a characteristic speech to the
House after prayers.

"Someone who imagines himself a sportsman, and who refuses to disclose his name, but whose
identity we can only guess at, has been making some silly remarks about certain play and behaviour
in the House. Of course that is all rot. But people have strange ideas, especially those in
authority, and we have to be very careful. So for heaven's sake don't go shouting out that
you are going to lay everyone out. It only means a row, and, after all, you can do it just
as well without talking about it."

There was a roar of laughter; the old system survived.

Next morning in break Gordon passed Buller on his way to the tuck-shop. "The Bull" cut him dead.

The day after, the Chief having made up his mind on the matter, told Gordon that his Sixth
Form privileges had been taken away.

Before a large crowd, in full view of Chief's study window, Gordon that afternoon burnt his
straw hat with the Sixth form ribbon on it, and stood over the smouldering ashes proclaiming
in tragic tones: "The glory has departed from Israel." His old passion for a theatrical piece
of rodomontade was not yet subdued.

       *       *       *       *       *

For a short time Gordon was rather worried about "l'affaire Hazlitt," as Tester called it.
But he soon forgot it entirely in the excitement of the approaching match. Everyone talked
about it; there was no other topic of conversation. The night before the match Lovelace could
not sit still for a minute. He strode up and down the study murmuring to himself: "We can't
lose; we can't; we can't!" Someone looked in to ask if he was going to prepare the Livy.

"Livy?" he gasped. "Who could do any work the night before a house match?"

The someone retired discomforted.

"You know it's absurd," Lovelace went on, "for a master to imagine anyone could do work when
the house matches are on. The other day Claremont had me up and asked me why my work had been
so bad lately. I told him that the house matches were so exciting that I could not concentrate
my mind on anything else. He looked at me vacantly and said: 'Well, are they really? I don't
know whom they excite; they don't excite me.'"

"Dear old poseur; he's keen enough on his own house," Gordon answered drowsily from the depths
of the hammock, in which he had almost fallen asleep. He felt incapable of thought. For weeks
he had looked forward to the match, and now it was so close he felt strangely languorous, tired
in brain and body.

Rain fell steadily all night, and though it cleared off about break, the ground was already
under water. It was a cold, gusty day.

By lunch the whole House was unbalanced. There was much loud laughter, then sudden silences;
an atmosphere of restlessness lay over everyone. Very slowly the minutes dragged by. Gordon
sat silent in a far corner of the pavilion. At last the whistle blew, the magenta and black
jerseys trailed out on to the field. A cheer rose from the line.

The next hour passed in a whirl of white jerseys, gradually turned black with mud, of magenta
forms dashing on to the School forwards, of wild, inarticulate black insects bawling on the
touch-line. The pervading impression was mud. Everything was mud; he was mud, the ball was
mud. Lovelace was indistinguishable. His own voice leading the scrum seemed strangely unreal.
There was a vague feeling of disquiet when, early in the first half, he found himself standing
under the posts, while the Buller's half placed the ball for Whitaker to convert. Nothing tangible;
then the disquiet passed, the magenta jerseys swept forward, dirty white forms came up and
went down before them. Morgan rolled over the line. A kick failed. Half-time came, Hazelton
came on, and said a lot of things to him, which he answered unconsciously.

A whistle blew. Once more the magenta jerseys swept everything before them. There seemed no
white jerseys at all. Numberless times he watched Lovelace taking the place kick. He thought
he heard Mansell shrieking: "Heave it into them! Well done! Now you've got them!" Once he had
a sensation of kicking the ball past the halves; he seemed clear, the full-back rushed up and
fell in front of him, the ball stopped for a second, then rolled on. He heard someone coming
up behind him; the line grew dimly white under his feet; he fell on the ball; there was a roar
of cheering. The whistle went in short, sharp blasts. The game was over.

And then he realised that the House had won, that his hopes were satisfied, that the Buller
crowd had been routed, that the cup would shimmer on the mantelpiece. A wave of wild exultation
came over him. The House poured over the touch-line, yelling and shouting. It was all "a wonder
and a wild desire."

Then came the glorious reaction, "the bright glory of after battle wine." The tea in the tuck-shop.
They were out of training. Then the perfect laziness of lying full-length in his hammock, talking
of the splendid victory. Then came the House tea. It was much like the Roman triumph. The whole
House sat in their places ten minutes before six. Tablecloths were removed; everyone took down
heavy books, boots, sticks. Then when the Abbey struck six, Lovelace led the side into hall,
up to the dais, to the Sixth Form table. Everyone shouted, roared, beat the tables. Dust arose.
It was very hard to breathe. The Chief came and made a speech. There was more shouting, more
shrieking, more beating of tables.

At last hall came with its gift of real rest. Gordon lay in the hammock, Lovelace reposed with
his feet on the table. Everyone came in to congratulate them. Hazelton invited them in second
hall to supper in the games study; the gramophone played rag-time choruses. Gordon sang all
of them. Everyone was gloriously, unutterably happy.

Meredith sent a wire: "Well done, House: now for the Two Cock."

In the dormitory Hazelton was talking over the match.

"By Jove, when that side is the Three Cock, we shall win by fifty points. Lord, I do envy you,
Caruthers! You will see the day, and be in at the finish. I shall only shout from the touch-line."
And he added: "My God, I shall shout, too."

There was nothing to mar the extreme joyousness of life. The world lay at Gordon's feet. He
had only to stoop to pick it up.

CHAPTER V: DUAL PERSONALITY

The Two Cock was always played a fortnight after the Thirds, and during that fortnight the
outhouses had to play off among themselves three preliminary rounds. For them it was a remarkably
strenuous time. The two best outhouses sides had, in fact, to play four house matches in twelve
days. But it was possible for the School House to take things easily for at least half a week.
And these three days out of training meant a lot to Gordon and others, who would have to play
not only in the Two Cock, but most probably in the Three Cock as well. It prevented staleness;
and staleness was the great danger that all outhouse sides had to face.

The week after the Thirds was regarded as a fairly slack time before the strenuous week that
culminated in the Two Cock. There would probably be only one game--on the Saturday; and that
a short quarter-of-an-hour-each-way affair. It was usually a quite uneventful time. This term,
however, an occurrence took place that had a big effect on the growth of Gordon's character.

Finnemore had caught influenza; the Chief had to go for a week to Oxford. The Sixth was at
a loose end. Various masters took it in various subjects, or at least were supposed to. Most
of the week was spent in the studies, as the master in charge forgot to turn up.

One afternoon, Ferrers was to take them in English. But Ferrers was engaged in writing an article
on the "New Public School Boy" for The Cornhill Magazine, and wanted to be quiet. He sent the
form to their studies to write an essay on a typical Ferrers subject: "Poetry is in the first
instance the outpouring of a rebel." It had to be shown up by six o'clock.

Gordon revelled in it. During the long afternoon he poured out his fierce soul. His life was
now a strange paradox. Half the time he thought of poetry, worshipping any sort of rebellion
against the conventional standards of living. At other times he was like the ordinary Philistine,
blindly worshipping games, never seeing that they led nowhere, and were as a blind alley. This
afternoon Gordon forgot everything but Swinburne, Byron, Rossetti, and the poets of revolt.
He stigmatised Wordsworth as a doddering old man, not knowing that his return to nature was
the greatest revolution in English literature. In a text-book he saw Shelley described as a
rebel. He got a copy of his works out of the library, but found little there resembling the
work of his own favourite. However, he quoted a verse out of O World, O Life, O Time! and decided
to search more deeply later on. The bulk of the essay was a glowing eulogy of The Hymn to Proserpine
and Don Juan. It was very dogmatic, very absurd in parts, but it had the merit of enthusiasm,
and, at any rate, showed a genuine appreciation of a certain class of literature.

Well satisfied, he made his way across to the Sixth Form room, and found Ferrers gazing at
a pile of papers, as Hercules must have gazed at the Augean stables.

"Um," said Ferrers, "who are you?"

"Caruthers, sir. I have brought you the essay you set the Sixth."

"Right; let's have a look at it; hope it is better than the stuff I have just been reading."

"Yes, yes, um--ah," he murmured to himself, as he read on. There was clearly some hankering
after style, some searching for an idea. Ferrers dearly wanted to smile at the attack on Wordsworth,
and the comparison between Swinburne and Milton (whom Gordon had never read), all in favour
of the Pre-Raphaelite. But he knew that it would be a fatal thing to do; it would seem superior;
the master must come down to the boy's level. He read on to the end of the wild, sprawling
peroration.

"Not bad stuff, Caruthers, not bad at all. Far and away better than anything I have so far
struck. I must talk to you again about this; I am glad you love Byron; I do myself; people
run him down--fools, that is. You stick to Byron, he is all right. And don't despise the rest
too much. Have a shot at Keats and Shelley. They are not so powerful, but good all the same,
very fine stuff.... Try The Pot of Basil. Must rush off now. Are you in training? No! Not yet.
Right. Come up to tea to-morrow. Good-night."

And thus began a friendship that was the most permanent in Gordon's school career.

Every Friday he used to climb up the hill past Rogers's house, and step out down the white
London road to Ferrers's cosy little home. Over a cup of tea he read an essay. Ferrers would
lie back listening, and then discuss it with him. He sometimes blamed the actual expression
of it, but he never found fault on questions of taste. He let Gordon browse at will in the
fields of English literature; he suggested books he thought Gordon would like; he did not try
to rush him on. There was heaps of time; he would let Gordon develop on his own lines.

From these evenings Gordon derived a pleasure that he found it hard to explain. He was thankful
to get away from the footer talk, the inevitable intrigues, scandals, all in fact that went
to form the daily curriculum. The world of ideas was far more attractive. Ferrers, although
himself a quarter-mile Blue, looked upon games as a recreation, and upon school life as a mud-heap
that had to be washed clean. Poetry, drama, the modern novel, these were what Ferrers loved;
and Gordon was glad to find someone who thought like this. He felt uplifted after his talks
with Ferrers, he walked back to the House buoyant, as it were on wings. Then as the school
gates rose before him, and he heard the sound of a football bouncing in the court, the old
routine caught him once more. He plunged into the old life with the same zest. He devised a
new scheme for avoiding work, thought out an idea for teaching forwards to heel, laughed, discussed
athletics and was well content. He tried to analyse his feelings, but could not. He was now
two separate persons. At times he was the dreamer, the lover of art and poetry; at another
the politician, the fighter who lived every minute of his life deeply to the full, with one
fixed aim before him. Gordon wondered if this apparent paradox in himself was in any way an
answer of the enigma that an artist's life so frequently was utterly different from the broad
outlines of his work. Browning had talked of a man having "two soul-sides." Had he two soul-sides,
one for the world, the other for art--and Ferrers? But then Browning had spoken contemptuously
of the "one to face the world with." Surely games were as good as poetry? Or weren't they,
after all? He felt an unanswerable doubt, and at such times of introspection he would stop
trying to think and merely let himself be carried on in whatever course fortune chose to bear
him. And so the Jekyll and Hyde business went on.

CHAPTER VI: THE GAMES COMMITTEE

In the mud and the rain the School House Two Cock team, coming up early from a puntabout, joined
the crowd watching the last stages of the Buller's v. Claremont's house match, and cheered
Claremont's to the echo. It was a remarkably fine game. When "no side" was called, the score
was nine all. Extra time was played, and just before the close, amid great enthusiasm, a limping
Claremont's forward fell over the line from the line out. None shouted louder than the School
House contingent. Everyone had grown tired of the Buller's domination. They had been successful
too long. For two years they had not lost a single house match. The Thirds had been their first
reverse; but even then they had triumphed over all their outhouse opponents. This was the first
occasion, since Gordon had been at Fernhurst, that the Buller's colours had been lowered by
an outhouse side. It signified the breaking up of their rule. Gordon shouted like the Vengeance
following the tumbrils. He roared loudly under "the Bull's" nose, stamped off the field to
tea, without a thought of the effect that his demonstration might have had upon "the Bull" himself.

As it happened, to "the Bull" the incident meant a lot.

"What is the reason of it?" he said to Felston that evening. "How have I made these School
House men, and especially Caruthers, hate me? They seem to delight in the defeat of my house.
Of course, I can understand their wanting their house to beat mine, but why should they worry
so much about Claremont's doing so? I can't understand it; and Caruthers will be leading the
school scrum in two years. We must not have bad feeling between the houses. Honest rivalry
is all right; but there seems so much spite about it all nowadays. It was not so when I was
a boy, and it wasn't so three years ago. I don't understand."

A climax was reached in the Two Cock, a match rendered famous in Fernhurst history by the amazing
refereeing of a new master named Princeford, who had come as a stop-gap for one term. The match
was played in the mud and slush, and was entirely devoid of incident. The play rolled from
one end of the ground to the other. Archie performed prodigies of valour; Gordon did some brilliant
things; Collins was quite fierce; but good football was impossible under the circumstances.
Early in the first half, amid tremendous cheering, Lovelace scored a fine try, by the touch-line.
There was no doubt about it. The school lined up behind the posts. But Princeford would have
none of it. He came up, fussing and important:

"No try, there. Knock on. Scrum!"

A gasp went up from both sides. Was the man blind?

"What is the fool talking about?" thundered Gordon.

Princeford was round in a second: "Who said that?"

Gordon stepped forward.

"Ah, I shall remember you."

The game continued; the outhouses amazed at such luck; the School House sullen and indignant.
The play developed into a series of forward rushes resulting in nothing. It was an amazingly
dull game to watch. From one of these rushes Gordon got clear; the full-back fell on the ball,
Gordon took a huge kick at the ball. One had to kick hard on such a sticky ground. He missed
the ball, and caught the back on the side of the head.

"Oh, damned sorry," he said.

It was quite unintentional, as would have been obvious to anyone who knew anything about the
game. No one would be fool enough to kick the man, when by kicking the ball he might score
a try. But Princeford was on Gordon like a shot. He began to lecture him before all the masters
on unsportsmanlike play, and threatened to send him off the field. Gordon glowered at him.
It was a combat of temperaments. The game resulted in a draw. No try was scored. It was a dull
performance, occasionally relieved by individual brilliance. Everyone was disappointed.

Sullen and silent, the House side trooped up to tea. They had won the match, of that there
was no doubt. And they had been done out of their victory.

The limit was reached when, muddy and cold, they found that the new boot-boy had forgotten
to heat the boiler, and there was only cold water to wash in.

The changing-room was filled with the sound of oaths and curses.

But when the effects of Princeford's refereeing and the boot-boy's forgetfulness had worn off
slightly, the House felt more content. After all, they had not been beaten. They had got the
cup for half the year at any rate. Things might be worse. And when in hall that night Hazelton
gave him his House cap, all Gordon's rage was overwhelmed by the feeling that his dearest object
had been achieved. The boot-boy was forgiven; Princeford faded into the background of insignificance
from which he had temporarily emerged.

But the matter did not end there: other fingers were itching to be in the pie. Christy and
Rogers, walking up from the field together, came to the conclusion that that incorrigible nuisance
Caruthers had disgraced Fernhurst football. Princeford was a master from Sedbury; he had only
come for one term as a special concession, because his headmaster was a great friend of the
Chief. What sort of an impression would he carry away of Fernhurst manners and sportsmanship,
if Caruthers should be allowed to go unpunished, not only for playing a deliberately foul game,
but also for using most foul language? And so these two, neither of whom knew anything about
football, while both were immensely aware of their own importance, made their way to "the Bull's"
study to pour out their grievances. "The Bull" was laid up with influenza, and had been prevented
from watching the match. They found him lying on his sofa. For over an hour they elaborated
the tale of Gordon's misconduct.

They pointed out that the object of house matches was to promote a keenness in school football,
and to provide interest for those who were not good enough to get into the school team. The
School House had for years during the Easter term isolated itself from the rest of the school.
It had considered itself as apart, a school in itself. Such an attitude militated against esprit
de corps; it made the house appear more important than the school. It led to bad feeling between
houses. In Caruthers were developed all the worst faults of this system. His keenness for his
house had so far drowned his affection for his school that he used any tactics to reach his
end. He took defeat in an unsportsmanlike manner. This afternoon's play had made this clear.
And what was worst of all was that Caruthers had a sufficient personality to attract others.
"Moths are always attracted by the flame," said Rogers pompously. If Caruthers were dealt with
effectively at once, this poisonous School House notion of its own importance would collapse.
Was it going to be put an end to? That was the question they put to Mr Buller; and they took
over an hour in putting it.

"The Bull" listened to all they had to say, and as soon as they began repeating themselves,
and he realised they had given all the information they could, told them he had now to dress
for dinner, but that he would consider the matter carefully and let them know his opinion later
on. Like two obsequious courtiers before an Eastern monarch, Rogers and Christy bowed themselves
out, inarticulate with advice and last words.

"The Bull" smiled. He was too big a man to be taken in by such obvious hypocrisy. These men
amused him greatly, especially because they both thought he took them seriously. But, for all
that, he saw that there was a good deal of truth in what they had said. He wished he had been
at the game himself. It was so hard to form an estimate on the strength of partial onlookers.
Princeford's refereeing might have been exasperating; but, damn it, even if it had, a sportsman
should not make a fuss about it! It was all part of the game. But Caruthers did not treat a
House match as a game, but as the real business of life. That was what rankled. Caruthers would
laugh when he dropped a catch in a Colts match, or missed his collar on the upper; but in a
House match his face would be set, his eyes wide and eager. Humour had for the moment ceased
to exist, as far as he was concerned. He clearly preferred his house to his school. Was he
stirring up any feeling between the outhouses and the School House? He remembered an occasion
terms back when Gordon in a House game had shouted out: "Let the swine have it." Then, again,
there was that affair of bribing Burgoyne to lay out one of his men. And then the incident
this afternoon. Outwardly he was doing his very best to separate the interests of his house
from those of the school, to split Fernhurst into two factions. But supposing, after all, these
were merely outward signs, supposing Gordon's excessive keenness, coupled with the rash hotheadedness
of youth, led him where his cooler judgment would have checked him. If that were so, and if
strong measures were taken, might not his keenness change into a hatred of Fernhurst, might
it not lead him to open antagonism with the rest of the school? Punishment might merely inflame
and not crush him, while if his feelings were only the natural effervescence of youth, they
would wear down in time, and then all would be well. Yet he realised that it is the things
which show that count in this world, a man is judged not by what he is, but by what he appears
to be. Everything pointed to the belief that Gordon was working against the interests of Fernhurst;
whether he actually meant to do so or not was immaterial. He had to be dealt with as if it
was deliberate. It might be hard on him, but it was not the interests of the individual, but
of the community, that had to be considered.

"The Bull" sent for Akerman, the school captain, after chapel on Sunday morning.

"Akerman, I want to speak to you about Caruther's behaviour in the Two Cock yesterday afternoon.
Of course, I did not see what happened, but from what I have heard I think measures ought to
be taken. It is a serious matter. Light measures are no good. I know Caruthers; you have got
to crush him, or he will laugh at you. I think what is required is a thrashing from the Games
Committee. He is bound to be awed by the disapproval of a body representing Fernhurst football.
I suppose now that the Games Committee wouldn't raise any objection? What about Hazelton?"

"Well, sir, Hazelton went to the matron last night, and they discovered he had got mumps. I
just passed him on the way to the sanatorium."

"Um! That means there is no School House representative. There must be one. It would not do
for it to appear a school thing, got up against a School House boy. It would only help to alienate
the two parties still more. Let's see, who is the next senior man in the School House?"

"Pilcher, sir."

Pilcher was one of those people who, though quite efficient at everything--he was in the Upper
Sixth--pass through the school without leaving any mark behind them. He was outside three-quarter,
and was well worth his place in the side, but he was in no way a blood. He was never seen.
He was always in his study. His was a blameless, uneventful career.

"He won't raise any objection, will he?"

"I shouldn't think so, sir."

Akerman had difficulty in not smiling.

"Very well, then, you had better call a meeting of the Games Committee this afternoon and talk
over the matter. If anyone makes a fuss, say I agree with it; and I expect it will be all right."

There was no need, however, for any recourse to the oracle. The Games Committee consisted of
the captains of each house. None of them cared the least what happened to Caruthers; he was
nothing to them. Pilcher supposed it was all right. The grand remonstrance was passed.

On Monday at twelve-thirty Gordon was summoned by a fag to attend in the school library. The
six members of the Games Committee sat around a circular table on which lay two canes. It all
looked very impressive.

Akerman rose. He began to read a speech off a piece of school paper. Gordon had wondered why
he had been so very energetic in taking down notes during the Chief's divinity lecture that
morning. The speech went on. It was full of the inevitable platitudes about esprit de corps
and a sportsmanlike spirit. Now and then Akerman stumbled, and had some difficulty in reading
his own writing. If there had not hung over him the prospect of a very severe beating, Gordon
would have enjoyed himself thoroughly. Akerman was so pricelessly absurd. The rest looked painfully
self-conscious. Why could not Akerman have learnt his speech? It was so bad that he could not
imagine anyone having any difficulty in making it up as he went along. Akerman was afraid of
expressing an opinion. He prefaced every remark with "Mr Buller says." It gave a sense of security.
The speech ended; everyone except Gordon was relieved.

"Bend over there."

The beating was not so horrible an ordeal as he had expected. In the same spirit in which the
outhouse captains had raised no objection, merely because they did not care in the least what
happened to Gordon, so now they did not take any particular trouble to hurt him. The ordeal
was rather a fiasco.

A halting oration had led to an even tamer execution. As Gordon walked down the library steps
he was painfully aware of having been the principal character in a scene of sustained bathos.
The body that represented Fernhurst football had scarcely risen to the dignity of its trust.

       *       *       *       *       *

And then a sudden wave of feeling swept over him; and he saw the horrible unfairness of the
whole thing. It did not matter that Akerman had made himself utterly ludicrous, or that the
rest of the Games Committee had been led to carry out a programme which they knew to be hypocritical.
It was the spirit that mattered. And at the back of it all moved "the Bull" pulling the strings.
In front of the School House porch, clearly, dispassionately, Gordon put his case.

"I know when I play football I get a bit excited; I know my feet fly all over the place. They
did that ever since I was a baby. I know I sometimes lose my temper. But I have been like that
always. I have played the same game in the Thirds, and in the Colts, my first term and yesterday.
But nobody said anything then. Do you remember the Milton match? I went a bit far then: I was
fearfully ashamed of myself afterwards; I thought my play had been a disgrace to the school.
But did 'the Bull' think so? Good Lord, no. He gave the side a jaw, and said that they were
a disgrace to the school, with the exception of me! I played hard and all that, while the rest
slacked and funked! I was singled out for praise in the roughest game I have ever played. And
now what happens? The House begins to win its matches; 'the Bull' sees his house losing cup
after cup. He and Akerman and the other fools think something must be done. So they wait for
an opportunity and then give me a Games Committee beating, to try and frighten the rest of
the House. They talked about my unsportsmanlike play. They did not mind when I played rough
against Milton. Oh dear, no! But when they find their own dirty shins being hacked, they sit
up and shriek. And they wait till Hazelton stops out, too!"

Everyone agreed with him. From Dan to Beersheba there was but one opinion. Buller had not been
playing the game. The authorities were against them. The House would have to cling together
to protect its rights. They could not have Buller trampling on them, dictating terms. He had
begun the contest; they would be prepared for him next time. An aura of antagonism overhung
the grey studies. Members of Buller's house were dealt with in the sweeping delineation of
"the swine across the road." For the rest of the term, every time Princeford passed the School
House on his way to the common room, a whistle blew from the dark recesses of the studies,
and some voice shouted: "No try; off-side!" "The Bull" himself was looked on with a general
suspicion. The inevitable had happened. "The Bull" in his attempt to sacrifice the individual
to the community had forgotten that the community is at the mercy of the individual. The world
is composed of a number of individuals round whom parties and nations cling. "The Bull" had
made an attack on the individual, and the community that Gordon represented took up his attitude
of defiance, strengthening his resolve not to give way, to keep the House independent of the
tyranny that drew five outhouses together as one. The House was not to be coerced. Its members
would be free to think, to do, to speak as they thought best. From that moment Gordon took
the interests of the House and not Fernhurst as the standard by which to judge all his thoughts
and actions.

And so it happened that just at this moment, when the House was bubbling over with suppressed
wrath, a chance was given them of showing their independence and defiance.

CHAPTER VII: REBELLION

On the Wednesday after the Games Committee's activities in the library, Ferrers banged into
Betteridge's study, his arms laden with books. There was a Stoics meeting on the next Saturday,
and the card drawn up at the beginning of the term announced that there would be a reading
of Arms and the Man, by Bernard Shaw. But Ferrers, who was now president, never took any notice
of the programme, which he invariably altered a day or two before the meeting. This imposed
a considerable strain on those who had to get up fresh parts and prepare different speeches
at a second's notice. But as the alterations were nearly always an improvement no one minded.

"Sorry, Betteridge--had to change Stoics' thing. Just picked up this--Younger Generation, by
Stanley Houghton--ordered fifteen copies from Sidgwick & Jackson--good publishers. Do you know
them? I've marked our parts--here they are--no more time. Good-night."

He was gone in a second. And the unfortunate secretary was left with the lot of distributing
copies and drawing up fresh notices. It was just on lock-up, so there was no time to do anything
till the next day. He settled himself down to read the play. In a very short while he was thoroughly
engrossed; by the time he had reached the end of the first act he had no doubt that Saturday
would witness the most successful meeting of the Stoics since the historic occasion when Macdonald
and Rogers had been persuaded to speak on opposite sides on "Trade Unionism," and Rogers had
been most gloriously routed.

Betteridge went in search of Tester and Gordon.

"Come up to my study and read a play Ferrers has got hold of for the Stoics. It's glorious stuff."

"All right," said Gordon. "I will go and fetch Rudd."

"For God's sake, don't bring that outsider."

"Oh, hell, why not? He is quite respectable; and, after all, he is one of the best of our regular
readers."

"All right then: fetch him along."

Since their scandalous ramble Gordon had become more or less friends with Rudd, and had to
a large extent helped to make his life more bearable.

The four sat silent, reading the play. There was occasionally a suppressed laugh: otherwise
no one spoke at all.

In under an hour they had all finished.

"Jolly good," said Gordon. "I do like seeing this younger generation up against the rotten
conventions of the mid-Victorian era."

"Deal gently with them," murmured Betteridge. "Their horsehair arm-chairs have stood the test
of time very well."

"Too well: but their Puritan ideas are in the melting-pot now. Their day is over."

"You know I am not sure that the Stoics is the right audience for a play like this," said Tester.

"Good heavens, man," protested Gordon, "you don't think it would corrupt their morals, do you?"

"Of course not, you ass! I don't think they would understand it: that's all. They will laugh
at it, and think it funny. But they won't really see what Houghton is driving at. They won't
understand that he is trying to cut away the shackles of mature thought that are impeding the
limbs of youth. The lads in the Remove will be frightfully amused; they will think the father
an awful old fool, and the son the devil of a rip. They won't see that both of them are real
characters, and that a hundred families to-day are working out their own little tragedy just
on these very lines."

"But surely there are really no fathers quite so absurd as old Kennion. Does not Houghton exaggerate
the type, as Dickens exaggerates all his types?"

"Oh no, he's real enough; I expect there are a good many like him living in Fernhurst now."

The truth of the last remark was brought home three days later.

On the Friday before the debate Ferrers got a bad attack of influenza. There would be no one
to take the chair. Moved by an instinct of courtesy, Ferrers wrote to Christy a little note,
enclosing the book, and asking him to preside.

On Saturday morning Christy went up to Betteridge in break.

"Ah, Betteridge, Mr Ferrers has asked me to take the chair at the Stoics. Well, I myself would
not be present when such a play was read. It is aimed at the very roots of domestic morality.
It might do very well in a small circle of Senior boys. But it would have a very serious effect
on young boys who are not as mature as you or I are. None of my house will attend; and, from
a conversation I had with Mr Rogers and Mr Claremont, I am fairly certain they will not allow
their houses to go either. It would be really much better to wait until Mr Ferrers is well
again before anything is done. It would be quite easy to postpone the meeting, I suppose."

"Oh yes, sir, of course."

Betteridge was not paying much attention: he was thinking hard. The bell for school rang.

"That will be all right then, Betteridge."

"Quite, thank you, sir."

Christy, bubbling with satisfaction, rushed off to tell the head of Buller's that the meeting
had been postponed. Things were turning out well for him. He had obtained the beating of Caruthers,
and now he had most distinctly scored off Ferrers. He did not stop to think that both these
campaigns had been carried on behind his enemy's back.

But in his moment of triumph over Ferrers he did not pause to think whether he had also triumphed
over the School House spirit of antagonism which he himself had stirred up.

During the half-hour between morning school and lunch, Betteridge, Tester and Gordon held a
council of war.

"Of course, whatever we do," said Betteridge, "is bound to be in the nature of farce. Three
houses, you see, won't turn up at all, Abercrombie's hardly ever sends anyone, and I don't
mind betting that Christy gets round 'the Bull' somehow."

"Yes; but, confound it all," said Gordon, "are we going to be dictated to by these outhouse
potentates? The Stoics is more a School House society than anything else; and, what's more,
it is going to remain so. These outhouse men can come or go if they want to. It does not matter
to us. Let us read this play with a School House cast, carry the thing through somehow, and
show these fools like Christy what we think of them. Now is our chance of proving our independence."

"Won't there be a hell of a row, though?" said Betteridge reluctantly.

"What if there is, man?" said Gordon. "We can't help that. Somehow or other that play is going
to be read. Let this evening be a symbol of the House's attitude. These houses have flung down
the glove. They beat our forwards when we win matches, and they try and stop our meetings.
Damn it, we'll pick up the glove!"

"Yes," shouted Gordon, "and fling it in their snivelling faces."

Betteridge drew up a huge notice of the meeting after hall and posted it on the school board.
It ran as follows:

     In spite of the fact that many of the usual readers will be
     prevented from attending the Second Meeting of the Stoics this
     term, the Society will read, at seven-thirty, in the School
     House Reading Room,

     THE YOUNGER GENERATION

     BY STANLEY HOUGHTON

     Cast ....

     (Signed) C.P. BETTERIDGE.

That evening was historic. Every member of the School House attended the meeting, the members
of the day-room as well as those from the studies. The reading-room was packed. It was a record
meeting. The reading was erratic. Parts were forced at the eleventh hour on reluctant and totally
unsuitable persons. But somehow or other they got through it in the end; and that was all that
mattered.

But still it was not without a little nervousness that the conspirators awaited developments.
Christy saw the notice and fumed. Ferrers heard of it and laughed. Rogers rushed to the Chief
palpitating with rage.

After lunch the Chief sent for Betteridge, and asked for a copy of The Younger Generation.
There was an air of nervous anticipation pervading the studies. Just before tea the Chief sent
for Betteridge again.

"A very interesting play. Very modern, of course, but extremely clever. Thank you so much for
lending it me. I wish I had been at the reading. A record attendance, I hear. Well, ask me
to come next time you get as good a play as that."

There was no reference to the outhouse boycott. The Chief was very tactful, and, moreover,
he had enjoyed reading the play immensely. Besides, it would not have done any good if he had
made a fuss, especially when he was entirely in sympathy with Betteridge.

In The Fernhurst School Magazine, which was edited by Betteridge, there appeared the following
paragraph:--

     "On Saturday, 5th March, before a record and appreciative
     audience, the Stoics read The Younger Generation, by Stanley
     Houghton. There was no one who failed to realise the
     extraordinary insight into the life of the day that made such a
     work possible. The enthusiasm and applause were highly
     significant, as showing what a keen interest the school is
     taking in all questions of social and domestic life. There were
     rather fewer representatives from the outhouses than usual, but
     this was as well, as there would have been little room for
     them."

The victory of Christy was not so very complete after all.

With this successful demonstration Gordon's excitement in House politics abated.

CHAPTER VIII: THE DAWNING OF MANY DREAMS

The Three Cock came and went, bringing with it House caps for Lovelace, Collins and Fletcher,
but it caused little stir. Everyone had foreseen the result, and without Hazelton (ill with
mumps) the House stood little chance of keeping the score under fifty. Hostilities were declared
closed for the time being. The four weeks of training for the sports came on, and Gordon's
Sixth Form privileges were restored. For a short time the hold of athleticism was weakened,
and as it weakened, the hold of literature became more firm.

"House Caps" were always allowed a fairly slack time after the Three Cock, and Gordon made
the best of his. While the last traces of winter were disappearing, and the evenings began
to draw out into long, lingering sunsets, he voyaged on into the unknown waters of poetry.
Keats and Shelley, names which had once meant nothing to him, now became his living prophets.
He felt his own life coloured by their interpretations. During the days of his quest for power,
when the scent of battle had led him on, he had found inspiration only in those whose moods
coincided with his own. But now that the contest was over and strife was merged into a temporary
lull, there came a check in the fiery search for achievements. He found pleasure in the gentler
but far more beautiful melodies of Keats. Byron and Swinburne had beaten so loudly on their
drums, and blown so forcibly on the clarion that his ears had been deafened. But in the peaceful
afterglow of satisfied desire he asked for soft and quiet music.

During this time he saw a great deal of Ferrers. Together they discussed all the questions
that to them seemed most vital. The Public School system came in for a great deal of abuse.

"A lot wants altering," Ferrers said. "Boys come here fresh from preparatory schools. If they
are clever and get into higher forms, they are put among bigger boys, and they get their outlook
coloured by them. They get wrong impressions shoved into their heads, cease to think at all,
lose all sense of honesty and morality. Then the school that has made them like this finds
out what they are, and sends them away."

"By Jove, that's just what Jeffries said."

"Jeffries--who is Jeffries? I don't know him."

"He was a splendid fellow; but, like most other people, he followed the crowd, then got caught
and had to go."

"That is it; always the same. Usually the least bad are sacked, too; never heard of a real
rake getting sent away; the rakes are far too clever. Cleverness is what counts, counts all
through life. A man is expelled only because he is not clever enough to avoid being caught,
and then the school thinks it's saving the others by sending him away. And it does no good.
The big wrong 'un stays on, only the weak one goes. Human nature is a thing that has got to
be dealt with carefully, not in the half-hearted way it is here."

Ferrers wrote a great deal about Public Schools to the various London papers. He was fast winning
a name in the educational world. But he was always being asked to modify his statements. He
raved against the weakness of the authorities.

"They don't want to know the truth," he said, "they are afraid to hear it. 'Tell us lies,'
that's what they say. 'Lull us into a false security. A big bust-up is coming soon, but keep
it off till after we are gone.' They know their house is built on sand, running out into the
river. They want to barricade their own tiny houses for a little. I want to go and search for
the big firm land, but they are too comfortable on their cushions and fine linen to dare to
move. Oh, prophesy smooth things!"

Gordon listened intently to it all. Ferrers was his ideal. Often they would talk of books:
of the modern novel; of Compton Mackenzie, in whom idealism and realism were one; of Rupert
Brooke, the coming poet, who was to make men believe in the beauties of this earth, instead
of hankering after an immaterial hereafter; of the Elizabethan drama, of Marlowe, Beaumont,
Webster. They were very wonderful, those hours. Gordon felt that he had at last, after wandering
far, come to his continuing city. Glancing back over his last two years, he used to laugh and say:

"I don't regret them; I was happy; and the only thing to regret is unhappiness. But I have
outgrown them; they did not last. They were what Stephen Phillips would number among the 'over-beautiful,
quick fading things.' They were good days, though. But I am happier now. I can see the future
spreading out before me. Next winter Hunter will be captain, but I shall be second in the team
and lead the forwards. It will be a year of preparation. Then will come my year of captaincy.
All the things I wanted seem falling into my hands. 'Life is sweet, brother,' life is sweet!"

And, looking back, it seemed as if in the wild orgy of Pack Monday Fair he had finally burnt
the old garments and put on the new. That day had been the funeral pyre of his old life; and,
like Sardanapalus, it had died of its own free will. A glorious end; no anti-climax. But the
future was still more glorious. When he watched the morning sun flicker white on the broad
Eversham road from the station to the Abbey, the leaves breaking on the lindens, the dim lights
waking in the chapel on Sunday, he saw how far he had outgrown his old self. Now he had begun
to perceive what life's aim should be--the search for beauty. Tester had been right when he
said that beauty was the only thing worth having, the one ideal time could not tarnish. And
yet Tester was not satisfied. The hold of the world was too strong on him. He could see where
others were going wrong, but he himself was all astray, at times morbidly wretched, at others
hilarious with excitement. It was merely a question of temperament. Gordon saw stretching before
him the fulfilment of his hopes. There was no niche for failure. His destiny would unroll smoothly
like a great machine; he was at peace, in sympathy with a world of beautiful ideas and dreams.
At times he would feel an unreasoning anger with the Public School system, but his rage soon
cooled down. After all, it had left him at the last unscathed, and was in the future to bring
many gifts. Others might be broken on the wheel; but he was still sufficiently an egoist, sufficiently
self-centred to be indifferent to them. He had come through, with luck perhaps, but still he
had come through. That was all that mattered. He had not read Matthew Arnold's Rugby Chapel.
If he had, he might have recognised himself in the pilgrim who had saved only himself, while
the world was full of others, like the Chief, who were "bringing their sheep in their hand."
But probably even if he had read the poem at that time, he would have been too happy, too self-contented,
too successful to realise its poignant truth. And it would not have been surprising. Youth
is always intolerant and self-centred. It is only when we grow old, and see so "little done
of all we so gaily set out to do," that we suddenly appreciate that, even if we have ourselves
failed, yet if we can by our experience help someone else to succeed, our life will not be
utterly vain. Altruism is the philosophy of middle age.

On a few, but very few, occasions Gordon was temporarily roused out of his secure atmosphere.
One of these was on the last day of term, when a letter appeared in The Fernhurst School Magazine
suggesting that the Three Cock should be changed into a Two Cock, since the School House had
for the last few years proved itself so incapable of holding out against the strong outhouse
combination of three houses against one. Much of what the writer said was true. The House numbered
only about seventy, while each outhouse contained some forty boys, with perhaps six day boys
attached to each. The House did not take in day boys, so that the House was always playing
against a selection from double its number. A Two Cock would be far fairer. Nevertheless the
House was furious.

"Confounded old ass," said Mansell. "I believe Claremont wrote it. Let him wait till next year
and he will see his beastly blue shirts rolled in the mud."

"But it is such infernal swank," said Gordon. "We smashed them in the Thirds; to all intents
and purposes we routed them in the Two Cock; the only thing the outhouses won was the Three
Cock; and they are so bucked about that that they want to clinch a victory, get up and shout:
'Look at us, what devils of fine fellows we are! You can't touch us. Better take charity.'
Unutterable conceit! Why, we won four times running about seven years ago. I have a good mind
to go to Claremont and give it him straight. Betteridge, you absurd ass, why did you print
this thing?"

"Well, you see, there were a few rather risky things in the paper, and I thought if I cut it
out he might hack about the rest of the rag. And, besides, it will be an awful score when we
win next year, as we are absolutely certain to. Can't you imagine the account: 'Last year some
rather foolhardy persons doubted the ability of the School House to deal with a combined side
of the best three outhouses, and they were rash enough to express their doubts in print. But
this year, under the able captaincy of G.F. Hunter, with the forwards admirably led by G.R.
Caruthers, the House gained a thoroughly deserved victory by fifteen points to three.' We shall
crow then, my lads, sha'n't we?"

"Yes, it will be all right then," said Mansell. "My lord, I wish I was going to be here to
play in it. My governor is a fool to make me leave and go to France."

Mansell was leaving at the end of the term.

"Well, all the same, it's a vile insult to the House," said Gordon. "Whether he meant it or
not, it's an insult."

But his annoyance passed quickly. He was far too certain of the future to worry much about
what anyone said. He was sure the House would win in the end. It was only a question of time.
And when the prize-giving came, his anger gave way to pride. His place in form gave him little
satisfaction, for he was easily bottom of the Sixth; but after the books had been given there
came the turn of the House cups. Amid enormous cheers Lovelace went up for the Thirds cup;
amid still louder cheers he and the outhouse captain stepped up together to receive the Two
Cock cup. Then at tea Hazelton walked into hall carrying the two trophies to place on the mantelpiece,
and the House burst forth in a roar of cheering. It was all sheer joy; and beyond the present
glory shone the dawn of great triumphs to come. The House was just entering on its career of
success. The day of Buller's was at an end. There only remained to them the remnants of their
earlier glory. Where they had stood the House was about to stand. And in that hour of triumph
Gordon himself would be the protagonist.

The short Easter holidays passed happily. Over the fresh grass of Hampstead Heath Gordon wandered
alone on those April mornings, when the trees were breaking into a green splendour, when the
long waters of the Welsh Harp lay out in the morning sun like a sheet of gold. Looking across
from the firs he saw the spire of Harrow church cutting the red sky, and the long stretch of
country in between rolling out into a panorama of loveliness. On the road to Parliament Hill
he passed the spot where Shelley found a starving woman dying in the snow, and took her to
Leigh Hunt's house to give her warmth. Near John Masefield's house was the garden where Keats
had written his immortal Ode to a Nightingale. Hampstead was prodigal of associations, and
they stirred the boy's imagination like a trumpet call.

Then followed the long summer term, with its drowsy afternoons, its white flannels, its long
evening shadows creeping across the courts, its ices, its innumerable lemonades; everything
conspired to make Gordon supremely happy. Scholastically he had at last achieved his great
wish of specialising in history; a fine-sounding programme which actually implied that he would
not need to do another stroke of work during his Fernhurst career. Specialising in history
was an elastic activity, and might mean a few hours a week in which to read up political economy.
It might mean what Prothero made it mean--seven hours in school a week, and the remainder pretending
to read history in his study.

The grey and lifeless Finnemore superintended the history, and, like everything else he superintended,
it was scandalously neglected. Outhouse people occasionally did a little work; School House
men never. Gordon began by taking quite modest privileges. He knew he had heaps of time to
enlarge his advantages. He started by doing one prose and one "con" a week, instead of two
proses and two "cons" like the rest of the form. He also gave up one Latin construe book and
one Greek book. That meant about two hours a day to idle in his study. But he found it quite
easy to turn that two into three, and he was well aware that by Christmas his daily hours of
indolence would have reached five. Prothero at the present moment was only going into school
for divinity and French, and as often as not he told his French master that he was so much
occupied with history that he could not come to French at all. Nominally he went into school
seven hours a week, actually he very rarely went in more than three.

The method of teaching history at Fernhurst had been the same from time immemorial. Gordon
was told to buy Modern Europe, by Lodge, price seven shillings and sixpence. He did not, however,
put his father to this expense. History specialists in the School House had for years used
the same book. It had once belonged to a fabulous Van Hepworth, who had gained a History exhibition
at Selwyn somewhere in the nineties.

No one knew anything of this Van Hepworth. His name was on the school boards, but he had never
been seen or heard of since he had left Fernhurst for the romantic atmosphere of Cambridge.
But he had left behind him a name that will be remembered in the School House as long as history
is taught by Finnemore. For on his last day, in a fit of gratitude, he had left to future historians
the legacy of his history notebook. It contained all that Finnemore knew!

Every week Finnemore set three questions to his specialists--to be done with books. He had
a stock of these questions, and Van Hepworth had written exhaustive essays on every one of
them. All that was needed was to consult the oracle, and then copy out what he had written.
Sometimes, by way of a change, Finnemore would think of a new subject. But Gordon would say:

"Oh, sir, I have been reading about Mary de Medici, and am very much interested in her. I wondered
if I could do a question on her."

"Of course. I always like you to do what you are interested in. Let me see. I have a nice little
question on her: 'Mary de Medici: was she an unmixed evil?' An interesting subject which raises
quite a lot of points. And I have one more question for you. 'Compare Richelieu and Mazarin,'
an interesting little psychological study. I think you will enjoy them."

Then Gordon would have recourse to the unfailing authority, Van Hepworth. Sometimes he felt
too slack to copy out the questions at all. On such occasions he would simply read Van Hepworth's
essay straight out of the old, battered book.

"I hope you won't mind my reading this to you, but I was in rather a hurry and I doubt if you
could quite read my handwriting."

Finnemore would listen with the greatest interest.

"Very nice indeed, Caruthers, very sound attitude to adopt. An essay well worth preserving.
You will copy it out neatly, won't you?"

"Oh yes, sir."

Gordon wanted to institute a Van Hepworth memorial, and put up a plate to him somewhere. But
there were many obstacles to this. The Chief might want to know more about him, and the legend
had to be kept secret. In the end he contented himself with having the book bound in full morocco,
so that it might be preserved for future generations, for already the cardboard cover had become
sadly torn. Where Van Hepworth is now, who knows? This only is certain, that although he has
most likely by now lost all clear recollection of Fernhurst and the grey School House studies,
yet his name is remembered there to-day, with far greater veneration and respect than was ever
paid to him during the days of his school career.

    "Let us now praise famous men,
      Men of little showing,
      For their work continueth,
      Deep and long continueth,
    Wide and far continueth, far beyond their knowing."

And so Gordon's scholastic career came to an end. He had reached the "far border town." There
would be no need to fret himself about form orders any more. "Strong men might go by and pass
o'er him"; he had retired from the fray. While others crammed their brains with obscure interpretations
of Æschylus, he lay back reading English poetry and English prose, striving to get a clear
hold of the forces that went to produce each movement, and incidentally doing himself far more
good than he would have done by binding himself down to the classical regime, which trained
boys to imitate, and not to strike out on their own. Gordon had already acquired enough of
the taste and sense of form which the classics alone can provide, and which are essential to
a real culture. But he was lucky in stopping soon enough to prevent himself being forced into
a groove, from which he could only judge new movements by the Ciceronian standards, without
grasping the fact that technique and form are merely outward coverings of genius, and not genius
in themselves.

To the other delights of this delightful term was added the sudden and unexpected success of
Gordon's cricket. For the first fortnight Gordon found himself playing on House and Colts games.
But as he gathered runs there with ease, he was soon transplanted to the First Eleven nets,
which he thenceforward only left for a brief spell, after an attack of chicken-pox. For a member
of the School Eleven life has nothing better to offer than a summer term. There were usually
two matches a week. The team would get off work at ten o'clock, and just as the school was
pouring out in break they would stroll leisurely down to the cricket field. Everything, in
fact, was carried out leisurely. A wonderful atmosphere of repose hangs over a cricket field
in the morning, when the grass is still sparkling with dew, and there is silence and vast emptiness
where usually is the sound of shouting and hurrying feet. There was the long luncheon interval,
when the members of the Eleven would wander round the field arm in arm, or lounge on the seats
lazy and contented. Gordon loved to sit in the pavilion balcony watching the white forms change
across between the overs, the red ball bounce along the grass, the wicket-keeper whip off the
bails, the umpire's finger go up. The whole tableau was so unreal, so idealistic. Then the
school would come down after lunch with rugs and cushions, and would clamour outside the tuck-shop
for ices and ginger beer. Gordon could hardly connect his present existence with the past two
years of doubts, uncertainties, wild excitements, hurry, bustle--never a second's peace.

One of his most perfect days was the Radley match. After a long journey, at the very end of
the day they passed through Oxford, and Gordon caught one fleeting glimpse of those wonderful
"dreaming spires," rising golden in the dying sun. As the team walked up from Abingdon to the
college, Tester, who had at last got into the side, came up and took Gordon's arm.

"You know, when I saw Oxford lying out there so peaceful and calm, I thought I had at last
reached the end of searching. This was my first view of Oxford; by passing the certificate
I didn't need to go up for smalls. Thank God, I am going up there next term. I think I shall
forget all my old misgivings in so completely peaceful an atmosphere. I can't shake off the
Public School ideas yet; I am all adrift; still, I think it will be all right there."

Gordon wondered indeed how anyone could fail to find all their dreams realised in so secluded,
so monastic a Utopia.

The next two days were supremely happy. Gordon, Lovelace and Foster were put into the same
house; and they spent half the night ragging in their old light-hearted fashion. The match
resembled most of the other performances of that year's Eleven. The whole side was out for
eighty. Gordon hit two fours and was then leg before; Lovelace, with laborious efforts and
much use of his pads, made twenty-three and five leg byes. But it was a sorry performance,
and Radley put up over two hundred. Fernhurst went in again; and that day Gordon and Lovelace
were sent in first.

It was an amazing performance. Gordon's cricket was, in honest fact, one of the biggest frauds
that had ever been inflicted on an opposing side. He had three shots--a cut, a slash shot past
cover, and a drive that landed the ball anywhere from mid-wicket to over short-slip. People
used to say that he tried each of these shots in rotation. That perhaps was hardly fair; but
he invariably cut straight balls and pulled good length balls on the off stump to the on boundary.
This evening, at any rate, he was in luck. With terrific violence he smote the Radley bowling
all round the field. Some shots went along the ground, more fell just out of reach of a fielder.
It was invigorating but hardly classic cricket. Still, whatever it was, it produced seventy-two
runs, while Lovelace had scored three. After he left Lovelace became still more cautious. A
man from Christy's was in at the other end, who had been instructed to keep up his end for
an hour. As a matter of fact, they scored exactly two runs between them in about half-an-hour.
That two was from a drive from Lovelace past cover.

At such daring Lovelace became much elated.

"Come on, I say, come on. Lots of runs here. Come on."

The Radley men were very amused. Lovelace took nothing seriously. It was as well that "the
Bull" was absent. Once, just as the bowler was rushing up to bowl, Lovelace flung out his hand
and said: "Stop! Move the screen please; your hand is just behind a tree!"

With great difficulty the screens were moved.

Once he patted the ball a little way down the pitch, and shouted to the batsman at the other
end, with hand extended: "Stay!"

There was some subdued laughter.

Lovelace turned round to the wicket-keeper and said: "Strange as it may seem, I am the worst
member of this rotten side, and I am playing for my place. This is the way to keep your place
at Fernhurst."

The final achievement was a successful appeal against the light.

The next day it rained in torrents.

"Jolly rotten luck," said Lovelace, "and I was certain for a bat for making my fifty, too."

"Do you think so?" said Tester. "You know, they don't play to a finish in England. You are
thinking of Australian rules."

Commemoration came and went, with its tea-parties, parasols, calf-bound books, sermons and
cricket match. The term drew to its close.

"This is the best term I have ever had," said Gordon. "By Jove, we have had some good days."

Yet, of all things, that which remained clearest in his memory was one day early in the term,
when he and Lovelace were recovering from chicken-pox. The school had gone for a field day
to Salisbury, and they were left behind with Archie Fletcher, who had been ragging Jenks, and
had been kept back for punishment, and a quantity of small fry. No work was done. In the morning
they all had to go into the big schoolroom and hear Claremont read Lycidas and parts of Comus.

Claremont read remarkably well, and Gordon, in an atmosphere of genial tolerance and good humour,
was able to get a clearer insight into the real soul of the pedant of the Lower Fifth. For,
shorn of his trappings, Claremont was "a dear old fellow." Among books he had found the lasting
friendship and consolation that among his colleagues he had sought in vain. And as he read
Comus, in many ways the most truly poetical poem in the English language, Gordon realised how
sensitively Claremont's heart was wrought upon by every breath of beauty.

The afternoon they had to themselves. A net was put up on the field, and for an hour or so
they beat about, regardless of science and footwork. A relaxation was a good thing now and
again. Then they went back to the studies, and in the absence of its owner laid hold of the
games study. They had the run of it now, and, with an enormous basket of strawberries before
them, played tunes on the gramophone and roared the chorus. As the evening fell, and the lights
began to wake, Gordon and Archie stole down to the fried fish shop, strictly out of bounds,
and returned with an unsavoury, but none the less palatable, parcel of fried fish and chips.

It was a glorious day; they enjoyed all Fernhurst's privileges with its restrictions removed,
and when the notes of Land of Hope and Glory proclaimed that the corps was marching up Cheap
Street, they considered the return to realities to be almost an intrusion on their isolated peace.

