"The guest house had been decorated with leaves, ferns, and flowers. As we ducked under the
eaves, our eyes a little dazzled by the brightness of the sunlight, we were received by the
taupo and her maidens, who were spreading fine mats for us to sit on. Oh the sweet, cool, clean
freshness of a native house! It would not be fair to call it a hut, for that suggests squalor,
or makeshift, whereas these houses are works of art. The roof rises inside like a great dome,
the inner thatch being intricately woven in patterns, while the floor is made of clean pebbles,
neatly laid and covered with fine mats. In the centre of the house the main pole stands like
a tall mast, with several cross-bars where the furniture--rolls of mats and tapa, kava bowls
and cups--is kept. There is nothing else in the room, except, perhaps, one or two camphor-wood
chests. The centre pole in the house at Vaiee was wound round and about with ropes of frangipani
flowers, while bright red hibiscus bells decorated the cross bars, and ferns in long wreaths
were looped round the edge of the room. The eaves come down pretty low, about four feet from
the ground, so that one has to stoop to enter.

"After receiving us with great cordiality, making us comfortable with fans, etc., the girls
joined us as we sat stiffly in a semi-circle, waiting for the chief--for we knew our Samoan
manners. Presently we saw him coming, dressed very plainly in a kilt of tapa and carrying the
high chief fly flapper.[63] He was accompanied by his talking man, with his tall staff of office,
and several of the lesser house chiefs--all looking very important and impressive. After shaking
hands with us (which is not a Samoan custom and always spoils the dignity of a fine entrance),
they sat in a semi-circle facing us. Then the talking man drew a long breath and started in.
Samoan talking men, or tulafale, are noted for their eloquence, but it is the wearisome part
of a malaga to have to listen to hours of high-flown discourse. At last, however, with a final
burst of oratory, our relief came, and then the taupo made and served the kava. In later years
the Samoans learned to grate the root for brewing, but on that occasion it was prepared in
the good old-fashioned island way. The taupo and her girls first washed their mouths out several
times with fresh water and then chewed the roots--nibbled them, rather, very daintily--until
there was enough for a brew. This was put in the middle of a huge wooden bowl (shallow and
with eight short legs, all carved out of one piece of wood), and water was poured over it.
The taupo,[64] very self-conscious, sitting cross-legged before the bowl, dressed to the nines
in flowers and ferns, with a piece of red hibiscus flower stuck on one cheek like a beauty
patch, her short hair oiled and sprinkled with grated sandalwood, was as pretty as a picture.
The cup was presented first to the chief,[65] who made a little speech of welcome--'May your
visit be a happy one'--then drank off the contents and spun the cup along the floor. It was
now presented to my mother, who took a sip only, and afterwards to me. I poured a libation
and said in Samoan 'Blessed be our high chief meeting.' Then came our English friends and Laulii,[66]
who came with us to officiate as 'talking man' for our party. She made a charming little speech
that made everybody laugh, and then, the ceremonies being over, we all gathered together for
a real talk. We brought news from Apia--we asked news of Vaiee. When I got into deep water
with my Samoan, Laulii would help me out, and we would both translate what was said to my mother
and the others. The manaia and his young men, who had taken a back seat while their elders
received us, came over to join in the talk and tell us of the preparations for our visit.

              [Footnote 63: The fly flapper is a carved stick with a
              horse-hair tassel on the end.]

              [Footnote 64: The taupo is the maid of the village.
              She is chosen for her beauty and is the official hostess
              to receive all guests.]

              [Footnote 65: Nowadays the Samoans, having learned
              European ways, present the cup first to the ladies, but
              then it was faa-Samoa, that is, in Samoan fashion.]

              [Footnote 66: Laulii, the Samoan wife of Mr. Willis, was
              a close friend of Mrs. Stevenson while she lived in the
              islands, and after she left there came to California to
              make her a visit at the ranch near Gilroy.]

"Immediately after the ceremonies of our reception we presented our gifts to the chief. Laulii
was the spokesman for us, and the village talking man stood in the door of the guest house
and announced in a loud voice the list of our presents, while from the inside of the surrounding
houses came the sound of clapping hands. This ceremony of presenting gifts was done humorously,
Laulii making many jokes and local hits which were received with polite laughter.

"We were three days in Vaiee, during which we were entertained by dances of the village girls,
war and knife dances by the manaia and his young men, and, besides being furnished with good
food all the time, we were honored with one grand feast, which was attended by the whole village.
On the morning of the second day we were sitting in the guest house, which, by the simple expedient
of hanging up a sheet of tapa, had been turned into two bedrooms for the night, when some native
girls called my attention and pointed out to sea. A number of canoes were to be seen coming
round the point at the mouth of the harbor, and as they came nearer we could hear the oarsmen
singing and could distinguish our names. They were bringing--so they sang--the fish to Tamaitai
Aolele--they had been out all night gathering turtles for Tamaitai Teuila.

"Later in the day there was a grand talolo, or ceremony of gift giving. My mother, as guest
of honor, sat just inside the guest house, on a pile of mats, with the rest of us in a semi-circle
around her, all facing the sea. There was a hum and buzz of excitement in the village, and
we could catch glimpses of fine headdresses and old women scurrying about with mats and flowers.
Soon the procession appeared, led by the manaia in full costume, dancing and twirling his head
knife, and accompanied by several young men. After them came others bearing gifts hung from
poles. Laulii, as our 'talking man,' received them, and our servants, in a little group, made
up a fine chorus. The manaia and his young men came up, danced in front of us, and then, taking
the poles from their attendants, laid three large turtles before us, calling out that they
were a humble offering from the men of Vaiee to the great and glorious and beautiful lady of
Vailima. Laulii received them, to my surprise, with jeering remarks that threw everybody into
fits of laughter, evidently quite the correct thing to do. The next people brought a huge fish,
nets of crabs, strings of brightly coloured fish, and sharks' fins.

"Seeing that one of the young men had a rag tied round his thumb, I asked him if he had hurt
his hand. He replied that when he dived for the turtle it caught him by the thumb, and if his
friends hadn't gone to his aid he might have drowned. He told it as though it would have been
a great joke on him. We were all pretty well acquainted by this time, and everybody threw in
remarks. Then our boys removed the presents, chose what we would take with us--only a small
portion--and the rest was returned to the village for the feast. On state occasions the men
are the cooks, and there is one dish that is only to be prepared by the manaia--who has to
array himself in full war paint to serve it--and a grand dish it is, composed of breadfruit
dumplings stewed in cocoanut cream in a wooden bowl by means of hot stones dropped in. The
dumplings are served in a twist of banana leaf, and each has a stick thrust in it to eat it
by. The grand feast was held about four o'clock, in a long arbor built for the occasion of
upright sticks covered with cocoanut-palm leaves. Fresh green banana leaves served as a table-cloth,
and on it was spread every dainty known to Samoa--pigs baked underground, turtle, whole fish,
chickens, taro, yams, roasted green bananas, broiled fresh-water prawns, crabs, a fat worm
that we pretended to eat but didn't, heart of cocoanut-tree salad with dressing made of cream
from the nuts, limes and sea-water, and all kinds of fruit. We were all so hungry that, if
it hadn't been for Laulii's warning, we might have fallen to before the chief said grace, which
would have been a shocking breach of good manners. The first ceremonious stiffness having worn
off by this time, the meal was enlivened by much friendly gaiety.

"That evening was given over to the dances, which lasted till nearly midnight. The manaia and
the taupo had each written songs and composed music for the dances in our honor, and copies
of them, written out neatly by the schoolmaster, were presented to us. Our friend, the English
captain, made a great hit with the young men by exhibiting feats of strength, which they all
copied, being highly delighted when they beat the Englishman, but cheering generously when
he beat them. Then we played casino, with sticks of tobacco on our side and head knives, fans,
etc., on theirs, for stakes. I perceived that the manaia purposely played badly in order to
let me win his head knife, on which he had carved my name.

"We had intended returning over the mountain as we came, but the chief suggested that we go
back by sailboat, as they had a very good one, and we could stop at some village every night
on the way home. When we saw the boat we found it to be a primitive affair, with a bent tree
for a mast and the sails tied with rotten ropes, but, knowing the natives to be the best boatmen
in the world, we decided to take our chances and rely on their skill to pilot us safely home.
We sent a number of our men back over the mountain to carry our share of the presents, but,
as we were going to stop at villages on the way we took with us our part of the feast--several
turtles, and, in lieu of calico or European things, which were not to be had at this retired
place, some tapa--for gifts. Before we left I made a parcel of sandwiches--of tinned tongue
and stale bread--in case we got hungry, for it is often a 'long time between feasts.'

"Everybody wanted to go with us, and, though the chief did his best to hold them back, the
little boat was so crowded that we were nearly level with the water. As we went around by the
windward side of the island, it was a rough trip.

"I noticed that the boatmen were narrowly watching my mother as she paddled in the water with
her hand over the side of the boat, but did not understand the reason until afterwards, when
we found out that, a little while before, a man had had his hand bitten off by a shark, and
another who was sitting on the edge of a canoe had had a large piece of his thigh bitten out.
The natives, being too polite to tell her to stop dabbling in the water, preferred to keep
close watch themselves and be ready to strike with their oars if a shark should rise.

"At the first village where we stopped for the night we had a ticklish job getting through
the reef, for there was but one small opening, and if we missed it we would be smashed to pieces.
The wind was blowing towards the shore, and the great breakers crashing against the reef sent
white spray high into the air. The boatmen were all pulling ropes and shouting orders at once.
It seemed as though we were driving straight into the reef, and I looked on terror-stricken,
but my mother chose that moment to say cheerfully, 'I think I'll have a sandwich!'

"The last day of our trip we ran inside the reef, where it was smooth sailing. Surely there
is no mode of travelling on earth so enchanting as this; we went gliding over the blue water,
with a sea-garden of coral, marine mosses, and brilliantly coloured fish below us, the white
sails bellying before the breeze, the natives singing, the shore with its palms and little
villages half hidden in green foliage slipping by, the mountains standing high against the
sky, while on the other side of the barrier reef the surf pounded in impotent fury, throwing
up a hedge of white, foaming spray. We seemed to be part of a living poem.

"When at length our delightful expedition came to an end and we landed at Apia, we found ourselves
confronted by a rather ridiculous dilemma. My mother had not worn any shoes going over to Vaiee,
which was quite in keeping with native customs and more comfortable for walking on the soft
moss and lush grass in the damp, dripping woods, but it was another thing to land in Apia at
the hotel barefoot. She slipped in as unobtrusively as possible and no one saw her. We had
supper in our rooms--or, rather, on the veranda connected with them. The next morning I ran
out to buy her some shoes--any kind--but there were none small enough. At last our little carriage
was sent down from Vailima and came around to the side entrance. My mother got in without being
seen and took the reins, but the horse, having been overfed with oats by Eliga in his desire
to treat it kindly, began to leap and plunge, and dashed around to the front, where a number
of the hotel guests were gathered. I heard them say, 'That is Mrs. Stevenson,' and all ran
to look. As the horse continued to plunge about they all called out 'Jump, Mrs. Stevenson!'
but she held on. I knew why she didn't jump--it was because of her bare feet. She was otherwise
very neatly dressed in black, with hat and veil and gloves. Finally one man, bolder than the
rest, reached in and lifted her out, and her little bare feet were seen waving in the air!"

One day, not long after this--July 17, 1896, to be exact--Mrs. Stevenson and her daughter were
driving along the beach at Apia, when they were surprised to see a strange craft in the bay--a
curious little sloop that they knew had not been seen nor heard of before in those waters.
On inquiry they found it was the famous Spray, in which Captain Joshua Slocum, of Boston, sailed
alone around the world. They called on the adventurous skipper at once and invited him to visit
Vailima, which he did on the following day. Mrs. Stevenson was delighted with the unconventional
ways and conversation of the captain, and, indeed, found in him much that was kindred to her
own spirit. When he wished to buy some giant bamboo from her plantation for a mast for his
little vessel, she, of course, made him a present of it, and had it cut and taken down by the
natives. He told her of his visit to the missionary bark, the Star of Hope, which was then
in port at Apia. He was shown into their chart room and looked at their instruments, upon which
he remarked, "I am a better Christian than you are, for you have two chronometers and a sextant,
while I have only my belief in God and an old clock." When asked why he didn't take a sheep
or some chickens along with him to eat as a relief from his constant diet of canned goods,
he said, "You can't kill a fellow-passenger. Out in the great stillness you get fond even of
a chicken, and as for pigs, they are the most lovable and intelligent of animals."

