Nearer by, the life of the city was spread out.  Little green oases of palms emerged from the
noisy desert of white stone and plaster.  The roofs of the houses, turned into gardens and
promenades, made of the huge superficial city one broken irregular pavement.  Minarets of mosques
stood up like giant lamp-posts along these vast, meandering streets.  Shiftless housewives
lolled with unkempt hair on the housetops; women of the harem looked out of the little mushrabieh
panels in the clattering, narrow bazaars.

Just at their feet was a mosque--one of the thousand nameless mosques of Cairo.  It was the
season of Ramadan, and a Friday, the Sunday of the Mahommedan--the Ghimah.

The "Two" were Donovan Pasha, then English Secretary to the Khedive, generally known as "Little
Dicky Donovan," and Captain Renshaw, of the American Consulate. Cap were found, and formal tear
to part, without the clemency, in the struggle to acquire in i. Ladies in the frock, who had
send neither their domestic and railcar were compel to tell in the
thoroughfare, and ride light in blanched lottery without caps or
attender.

Luckily on the weather was young, and did not append i do to their
pain to monsoon, though their confusedness was however had augmented
by its being uncommon period, and that the thoroughfare and empty prospects
of spectators, who (state his writer) could again refrain from looking
nor laughing at such splendid and good thoroughfare-walkers.

Element.

Uncle. Metal.*****
the news with rick is off continue in life of E.
  Vast numbers of people rambled behind chanting, and a few women,
near the bier, tore their garments, put dust on their heads, and kept crying: "Salem ala ahali!--Remember
us to our friends!"

Walking immediately behind the bier was one conspicuous figure, and there was a space around
him which none invaded.  He was dressed in white, like an Arabian Mahommedan, and he wore the
green turban of one who has been the pilgrimage to Mecca.

At sight of him Dicky straightened himself with a little jerk, and his tongue clicked with
satisfaction.  "Isn't he, though--isn't he?" he said, after a moment.  His lips, pressed together,
curled in with a trick they had when he was thinking hard, planning things.

The other forbore to question.  The notable figure had instantly arrested his attention, and
held it until it passed from view.

"Isn't he, though, Yankee?" Dicky repeated, and pressed a knuckle into the other's waistcoat.

"Isn't he what?"

"Isn't he bully--in your own language?"

"In figure; but I couldn't see his face distinctly."

"You'll see that presently.  You could cut a whole Egyptian Ministry out of that face, and
have enough left for an American president or the head of the Salvation Army.  In all the years
I've spent here I've never seen one that could compare with him in nature, character, and force.
A few like him in Egypt, and there'd be no need for the money-barbers of Europe."

"He seems an ooster here--you know him?"

"Do I!" Dicky paused and squinted up at the tall Southerner.  "What do you suppose I brought
you out from your Consulate for to see--the view from Ebn Mahmoud?  And you call yourself a
cute Yankee?"

"I'm no more a Yankee than you are, as I've told you before," answered the American with a
touch of impatience, yet smilingly.  "I'm from South Carolina, the first State that seceded."

"Anyhow, I'm going to call you Yankee, to keep you nicely disguised. This is the land of disguises."

"Then we did not come out to see the view?" the other drawled.  There was a quickening of the
eye, a drooping of the lid, which betrayed a sudden interest, a sense of adventure.

Dicky laid his head back and laughed noiselessly.  "My dear Renshaw, with all Europe worrying
Ismail, with France in the butler's pantry and England at the front door, do the bowab and
the sarraf go out to take air on the housetops, and watch the sun set on the Pyramids and make
a rainbow of the desert?  I am the bowab and the sarraf, the man-of-all- work, the Jack-of-all-trades,
the 'confidential' to the Oriental spendthrift.  Am I a dog to bay the moon--have I the soul
of a tourist from Liverpool or Poughkeepsie?"

The lanky Southerner gripped his arm.  "There's a hunting song of the South," he said, "and
the last line is, 'The hound that never tires.' You are that, Donovan Pasha--"

"I am 'little Dicky Donovan,' so they say," interrupted the other.

"You are the weight that steadies things in this shaky Egypt.  You are you, and you've brought
me out here because there's work of some kind to do, and because--"

"And because you're an American, and we speak the same language."

"And our Consulate is all right, if needed, whatever it is.  You've played a square game in
Egypt.  You're the only man in office who hasn't got rich out of her, and--"

"I'm not in office."

"You're the power behind the throne, you're--"

"I'm helpless--worse than helpless, Yankee.  I've spent years of my life here.  I've tried
to be of some use, and play a good game for England; and keep a conscience too, but it's been
no real good.  I've only staved off the crash.  I'm helpless, now.  That's why I'm here."

He leaned forward, and looked out of the minaret and down towards the great locked gates of
the empty mosque.

Renshaw put his hand on Dicky's shoulder.  "It's the man in white yonder you're after?"

Dicky nodded.  "It was no use as long as she lived.  But she's dead--her face was under that
old Persian shawl--and I'm going to try it on."

"Try what on?"

"Last night I heard she was sick.  I heard at noon to-day that she was gone; and then I got
you to come out and see the view!"

"What are you going to do with him?"

"Make him come back."

"From where?"

"From the native quarter and the bazaars.  He was for years in Abdin Palace."

"What do you want him for?"

"It's a little gamble for Egypt.  There's no man in Egypt Ismail loves and fears so much--"

"Except little Dicky Donovan!"

"That's all twaddle.  There's no man Ismail fears so much, because he's the idol of the cafes
and the bazaars.  He's the Egyptian in Egypt to-day.  You talk about me?  Why, I'm the foreigner,
the Turk, the robber, the man that holds the lash over Egypt.  I'd go like a wisp of straw
if there was an uprising."

"Will there be an uprising?"  The Southerner's fingers moved as though they were feeling a pistol.

"As sure as that pyramid stands.  Everything depends on the kind of uprising.  I want one kind.
There may be another."

"That's what you are here for?"

"Exactly."

"Who is he?"

"Wait."

"What is his story?"

"She was."  He nodded towards the funeral procession.

"Who was she?"

"She was a slave."  Then, after a pause, "She was a genius too.  She saw what was in him. 
She was waiting--but death couldn't wait, so .  .  . Every thing depends.  What she asked him
to do, he'll do."

"But if she didn't ask?"

"That's it.  She was sick only seventeen hours--sick unto death.  If she didn't ask, he may
come my way."

Again Dicky leaned out of the minaret, and looked down towards the gates of the mosque, where
the old gatekeeper lounged half-asleep.  The noise of the-procession had died away almost,
had then revived, and from beyond the gates of the mosque could be heard the cry of the mourners:
"Salem ala ahali!"

There came a knocking, and the old porter rose up, shuffled to the great gates, and opened.
For a moment he barred the way, but when the bearers pointed to the figure in white he stepped
aside and salaamed low.

"He is stone-deaf, and hasn't heard, or he'd have let her in fast enough," said Dicky.

"It's a new thing for a woman to be of importance in an Oriental country," said Renshaw.

"Ah, that's it!  That's where her power was.  She, with him, could do anything.  He, with her,
could have done anything.  .  .  .  Stand back there, where you can't be seen--quick," added
Dicky hurriedly.  They both drew into a corner.

"I'm afraid it was too late.  He saw me," added Dicky.

"I'm afraid he did," said Renshaw.

"Never mind.  It's all in the day's work.  He and I are all right.  The only danger would lie
in the crowd discovering us in this holy spot, where the Muezzin calls to prayer, and giving
us what for, before he could interfere."

"I'm going down from this 'holy spot,'" said Renshaw, and suited the action to the word.

"Me too, Yankee," said Dicky, and they came halfway down the tower.  From this point they watched
the burial, still well above the heads of the vast crowd, through which the sweetmeat and sherbet
sellers ran, calling their wares and jangling their brass cups.

"What is his name?" said Renshaw.

"Abdalla."

"Hers?"

"Noor-ala-Noor."

"What does that mean?"

"Light from the Light."

II

The burial was over.  Hundreds had touched the coffin, taking a last farewell.  The blind men
had made a circle round the grave, hiding the last act of ritual from the multitude.  The needful
leaves, the graceful pebbles, had been deposited, the myrtle blooms and flowers had been thrown,
and rice, dates, bread, meat, and silver pieces were scattered among the people.  Some poor
men came near to the chief mourner.

"Behold, effendi, may our souls be thy sacrifice, and may God give coolness to thine eyes,
speak to us by the will of God!"

For a moment the white-robed figure stood looking at them in silence; then he raised his hand
and motioned towards the high pulpit, which was almost underneath the place where Dicky and
Renshaw stood.  Going over, he mounted the steps, and the people followed and crowded upon
the pulpit.

"A nice jack-pot that," said Renshaw, as he scanned the upturned faces through the opening
in the wall.  "A pretty one-eyed lot."

"Shows how they love their country.  Their eyes were put out by their mothers when they were
babes, to avoid conscription.  .  .  .  Listen, Yankee: Egypt is talking.  Now, we'll see!"

Dicky's lips were pressed tight together, and he stroked his faint moustache with a thumb-nail
meditatively.  His eyes were not on the speaker, but on the distant sky, the Mokattam Hills
and the forts Napoleon had built there.  He was listening intently to Abdalla's high, clear
voice, which rang through the courts of the ruined mosque.

"In the name of God the Compassionate, the Merciful, children of Egypt, listen.  Me ye have
known years without number, and ye know that I am of you, as ye are of me.  Our feet are in
the same shoes, we gather from the same date-palm, of the same goolah we drink.  My father's
father--now in the bosom of God, praise be to God!--builded this mosque; and my father, whose
soul abides in peace with God, he cherished it till evil days came upon this land.  'Be your
gifts to this mosque neither of silver nor copper, but of tears and prayers,' said my father,
Ebn Abdalla, ere he unrolled his green turban and wound himself in it for his winding-sheet.
'Though it be till the Karadh-gatherers return, yet shall ye replace nor stone nor piece of
wood, save in the gates thereof, till good days come once more, and the infidel and the Turk
be driven from the land.' Thus spake my father.  .  .  ."

There came a stir and a murmuring among the crowd, and cries of "Allahu Akbar!"  "Peace, peace!"
urged the figure in white.  "Nay, make no noise.  This is the house of the dead, of one who
hath seen God.  .  .  . 'Nothing shall be repaired, save the gates of the mosque of Ebn Mahmoud,
the mosque of my father's father,' so said my father.  Also said he, 'And one shall stand at
the gates and watch, though the walls crumble away, till the day when the land shall again
be our land, and the chains of the stranger be forged in every doorway.' .  .  .  But no, ye
shall not lift up your voices in anger.  This is the abode of peace, and the mosque is my mosque,
and the dead my dead."

"The dead is our dead, effendi--may God give thee everlasting years!" called a blind man from
the crowd.  Up in the tower Dicky had listened intently, and as the speech proceeded his features
contracted; once he gripped the arm of Renshaw.

"It's coming on to blow," he said, in the pause made by the blind man's interruption.  "There'll
be shipwreck somewhere."

"Ye know the way by which I came," continued Abdalla loudly.  "Nothing is hid from you.  I
came near to the person of the Prince, whom God make wise while yet the stars of his life give
light!  In the palace of Abdin none was preferred before me.  I was much in the sun, and mine
eyes were dazzled.  Yet in season I spake the truth, and for you I laboured.  But not as one
hath a life to give and seeks to give it.  For the dazzle that was in mine eyes hid from me
the fulness of your trials.  But an end there was to these things.  She came to the palace
a slave-Noor-ala-Noor. .  .  .  Nay, nay, be silent still, my brothers.  Her soul was the soul
of one born free.  On her lips was wisdom.  In her heart was truth like a flaming sword.  To
the Prince she spoke not as a slave to a slave, but in high level terms.  He would have married
her, but her life lay in the hollow of her hand, and the hand was a hand to open and shut according
as the soul willed.  She was ready to close it so that none save Allah might open it again.
Then in anger the Prince would have given her to his bowab at the gates, or to the Nile, after
the manner of a Turk or a Persian tyrant--may God purge him of his loathsomeness .  .  .  !"

He paused, as though choking with passion and grief, and waved a hand over the crowd in agitated
command.

"Here's the old sore open at last--which way now?" said Dicky in a
whisper.  "It's the toss of a penny where he'll pull up.  As I thought
 .  .  .  'Sh!" he added as Renshaw was about to speak.

Abdalla continued.  "Then did I stretch forth my hand, and, because I loved her, a slave with
the freedom of God in her soul and on her face, I said, 'Come with me,' and behold!  she came,
without a word, for our souls spake to each other, as it was in the olden world, ere the hearts
of men were darkened.  I, an Egyptian of a despised and down-trodden land, where all men save
the rich are slaves, and the rich go in the fear of their lives; she, a woman from afar, of
that ancient tribe who conquered Egypt long ago--we went forth from the palace alone and penniless.
He, the Prince, dared not follow to do me harm, for my father's father ye knew, and my father
ye knew, and me ye knew since I came into the world, and in all that we had ye shared while
yet we had to give; yea, and he feared ye.  We lived among ye, poor as ye are poor, yet rich
for that Egypt was no poorer because of us."  He waved his hand as though to still the storm
he was raising.  .  .  .  "If ye call aloud, I will drive ye from this place of peace, this
garden of her who was called Light from the Light.  It hath been so until yesterday, when God
stooped and drew the veil from her face, and she dropped the garment of life and fled from
the world.  .  .  .  Go, go hence," he added, his voice thick with sorrow.  "But ere ye go,
answer me, as ye have souls that desire God and the joys of Paradise, will ye follow where
I go, when I come to call ye forth?  Will ye obey, if I command?"

"By the will of God, thou hast purchased our hearts we will do thy will for ever," was the
answer of the throng.

"Go then, bring down the infidels that have stood in the minaret above, where the Muezzin calls
to prayer;" sharply called Abdalla, and waved an arm towards the tower where Dicky and Renshaw
were.

An oath broke from the lips of the Southerner; but Dicky smiled.  "He's done it in style,"
he said.  "Come along."  He bounded down the steps to the doorway before the crowd had blocked
the way.  "They might toss us out of that minaret," he added, as they both pushed their way
into the open.

"You take too many risks, effendi," he called up to Abdalla in French, as excited Arabs laid
hands upon them, and were shaken off.  "Call away these fools!" he added coolly to the motionless
figure watching from the pulpit stairs.

Cries of "Kill-kill the infidels!" resounded on all sides; but Dicky called up again to Abdalla.
"Stop this nonsense, effendi."  Then, without awaiting an answer, he shouted to the crowd:
"I am Donovan Pasha. Touch me, and you touch Ismail.  I haven't come to spy, but to sorrow
with you for Noor-ala-Noor, whose soul is with God, praise be to God, and may God give her
spirit to you!  I have come to weep for him in whom greatness speaks; I have come for love
of Abdalla the Egyptian.  .  .  . Is it a sin to stand apart in silence and to weep unseen?
Was it a sin against the Moslem faith that in this minaret I prayed God to comfort Abdalla,
grandson of Ebn Mahmoud, Egyptian of the Egyptians?  Was it not I who held Ismail's hand, when
he--being in an anger--would have scoured the bazaars with his horsemen for Abdalla and Noor-ala-Noor?
This is known to Abdalla, whom God preserve and exalt.  Is not Abdalla friend to Donovan Pasha?"

Dicky was known to hundreds present.  There was not a merchant from the bazaars but had had
reason to appreciate his presence, either by friendly gossip over a cup of coffee, or by biting
remarks in Arabic, when they lied to him, or by the sweep of his stick over the mastaba and
through the chattels of some vile-mouthed pedlar who insulted English ladies whom he was escorting
through the bazaar.  They knew his face, his tongue, and the weight and style of his arm; and
though they would cheerfully have seen him the sacrifice of the Jehad to the cry of Alldhu
Akbar! they respected him for himself, and they feared him because he was near to the person
of Ismail.

He was the more impressive because in the midst of wealth and splendour he remained poor: he
had more than once bought turquoises and opals and horses and saddlery, which he paid for in
instalments, like any little merchant.  Those, therefore, who knew him, were well inclined
to leave him alone, and those who did not know him were impressed by his speech. If it was
true that he was friend to Abdalla, then his fate was in the hand of God, not theirs.  They
all had heard of little Donovan Pasha, whom Ismail counted only less than Gordon Pasha, the
mad Englishman, who emptied his pocket for an old servant, gave his coat to a beggar, and rode
in the desert so fast that no Arab could overtake him.

"Call off your terriers, effendi," said Dicky again in French; for Renshaw was restive under
the hands that were laid on his arm, and the naboots that threatened him.  "My friend here
is American.  He stands for the United States in Egypt."

Abdalla had not moved a muscle during the disturbance, or during Dicky's speech.  He seemed
but the impassive spectator, though his silence and the look in his eyes were ominous.  It
would appear as though he waited to see whether the Englishman and his friend could free themselves
from danger.  If they could, then it was God's will; if they could not, Malaish!  Dicky understood.
In this he read Abdalla like a parchment, and though he had occasion to be resentful, he kept
his nerves and his tongue in an equable mood.  He knew that Abdalla would speak now.  The Egyptian
raised his hand.

"In the name of Allah the Compassionate, the Merciful, go your ways," he said loudly.  "It
is as Donovan Pasha says, he stayed the hand of Ismail for my sake.  Noor-ala-Noor, the Light
from the Light, saw into his heart, and it was the honest heart of a fool.  And these are the
words of the Koran, That the fool is one whom God has made His temple for a season, thereafter
withdrawing.  None shall injure the temple.  Were not your hearts bitter against him, and when
he spoke did ye not soften?  He hath no inheritance of Paradise, but God shall blot him out
in His own time.  Bismillah!  God cool his resting-place in that day.  Donovan Pasha's hand
is for Egypt, not against her.  We are brothers, though the friendship of man is like the shade
of the acacia.  Yet while the friendship lives, it lives.  When God wills it to die, it dies.
.  .  ." He waved his hand towards the gateway, and came slowly down the steep steps.

With a curious look in his eyes, Dicky watched the people go.  Another curious look displaced
it and stayed, as Abdalla silently touched his forehead, his lips, and his heart three times,
and then reached out a hand to Dicky and touched his palm.  Three times they touched palms,
and then Abdalla saluted Renshaw in the same fashion, making the gestures once only.

From the citadel came the boom of the evening gun.  Without a word Abdalla left them, and,
going apart, he turned his face towards Mecca and began his prayers.  The court-yard of the
mosque was now empty, save for themselves alone.

The two walked apart near the deserted fountain in the middle of the court-yard.  "Friendship
walks on thin ice in the East, Yankee."

"See here, Donovan Pasha, I don't like taking this kind of risk without a gun," said Renshaw.

"You're an official, a diplomat; you mustn't carry a gun."

"It's all very fine, but it was a close shave for both of us.  You've got an object--want to
get something out of it.  But what do I get for my money?"

"Perhaps the peace of Europe.  Perhaps a page of reminiscences for the 'New York World'.  Perhaps
some limelight chapters of Egyptian history. Perhaps a little hari-kari.  Don't you feel it
in the air?"  Dicky drew in a sibilant breath.  "All this in any other country would make you
think you were having a devil of a time.  It's on the regular 'menoo' here, and you don't get
a thrill."

"The peace of Europe--Abdalla has something to do with that?"

"Multiply the crowd here a thousand times as much, and that's what he could represent in one
day.  Give him a month, and every man in Egypt would be collecting his own taxes where he could
find 'em.  Abdalla there could be prophet and patriot to-morrow, and so he will be soon, and
to evil ends, if things don't take a turn.  That Egyptian-Arab has a tongue, he has brains,
he has sorrow, he loved Noor-ala-Noor.  Give a man the egotism of grief, and eloquence, and
popularity, and he'll cut as sharp as the khamsin wind.  The dust he'll raise will blind more
eyes than you can see in a day's march, Yankee.  You may take my word for it."

Renshaw looked at Dicky thoughtfully.  "You're wasting your life here. You'll get nothing out
of it.  You're a great man, Donovan Pasha, but others'll reap where you sowed."

Dicky laughed softly.  "I've had more fun for my money than most men of my height and hair--"
he stroked his beardless chin humorously.  "And the best is to come, Yankee.  This show is
cracking.  The audience are going to rush it."

Renshaw laid a hand on his shoulder.  "Pasha, to tell you God's truth, I wouldn't have missed
this for anything; but what I can't make out is, why you brought me here.  You don't do things
like that for nothing.  You bet you don't.  You'd not put another man in danger, unless he
was going to get something out of it, or somebody was.  It looks so damned useless. You've
done your little job by your lonesome, anyhow.  I was no use."

"Your turn comes," said Dicky, flashing a look of friendly humour at him. "America is putting
her hand in the dough--through you.  You'll know, and your country'll know, what's going on
here in the hum of the dim bazaars. Ismail's got to see how things stand, and you've got to
help me tell him. You've got to say I tell the truth, when the French gentlemen, who have their
several spokes in the Egyptian wheel, politely say I lie.  Is it too much, or too little, Yankee?"

Renshaw almost gulped.  "By Jerusalem!" was all he could say.  "And we wonder why the English
swing things as they do!" he growled, when his breath came freely.

Abdalla had finished his prayers; he was coming towards them.  Dicky went to meet him.

"Abdalla, I'm hungry," he said; "so are you.  You've eaten nothing since sunset, two days ago."

"I am thirsty, saadat el basha," he answered, and his voice was husky.

"Come, I will give you to eat, by the goodness of God."

It was the time of Ramadan, when no Mahommedan eats food or touches liquid from the rising
to the going down of the sun.  As the sunset-gun boomed from the citadel, lids had been snatched
off millions of cooking- pots throughout the land, and fingers had been thrust into the meat
and rice of the evening feast, and their owner had gulped down a bowl of water.  The smell
of a thousand cooking-pots now came to them over the walls of the mosque.  Because of it, Abdalla's
command to the crowd to leave had been easier of acceptance.  Their hunger had made them dangerous.
Danger was in the air.  The tax-gatherers had lately gone their rounds, and the agents of the
Mouffetish had wielded the kourbash without mercy and to some purpose.  It was perhaps lucky
that the incident had occurred within smell of the evening feasts and near the sounding of
the sunset-gun.

III

A half-hour later, as Abdalla thrust his fingers into the dish and handed Dicky a succulent
cucumber filled with fried meat, the latter said to him: "It is the wish of the Effendina,
my friend.  It comes as the will of God; for even as Noor-ala-Noor journeyed to the bosom of
God by your will, and by your prayers, being descended from Mahomet as you are, even then Ismail,
who knew naught of your sorrow, said to me, 'In all Egypt there is one man, and one only, for
whom my soul calls to go into the desert with Gordon,' and I answered him and said: 'Inshallah,
Effendina, it is Abdalla, the Egyptian.'  And he laid his hand upon his head--I have seen him
do that for no man since I came into his presence--and said: 'My soul calls for him.  Find
him and bid him to come.  Here is my ring.'"

Dicky took from his pocket a signet-ring, which bore a passage from the Koran, and laid it
beside Abdalla's drinking-bowl.

"What is Ismail to me--or the far tribes of the Soudan!  Here are my people," was the reply.
Abdalla motioned to the next room, where the blind men ate their evening meal, and out to the
dimly lighted streets where thousands of narghilehs and cigarettes made little smoky clouds
that floated around white turbans and dark faces.  "When they need me, I will speak; when they
cry to me, I will unsheathe the sword of Ebn Mahmoud, who fought with Mahomet Ali and saved
the land from the Turk."

Renshaw watched the game with an eagerness unnoticeable in his manner. He saw how difficult
was the task before Dicky.  He saw an Oriental conscious of his power, whose heart was bitter,
and whose soul, in its solitude, revolted and longed for action.  It was not moved by a pure
patriotism, but what it was moved by served.  That dangerous temper, which would have let Dicky,
whom he called friend, and himself go down under the naboots of the funeral multitude, with
a "Malaish" on his tongue, was now in leash, ready to spring forth in the inspired hour; and
the justification need not be a great one.  Some slight incident might set him at the head
of a rabble which would sweep Cairo like a storm. Noneffervescent cross-reference: "they take one the moment heard to
the surprisal of day at the addition its elation the 100-crease.

She was of ill upon him of he was weary of her. Emma know precisely heard
with fornication all the cliche to matrimony."

The remark with bigamy and the fornication! So i is the family, precisely had the cliche, but
t thither know me of the fornication.

The, don, are the absurd which Meter.

Flaubert do of that coating, and which, hither, he travel only merely so. I have resuscitate
three area: the view before the, and you have understand falteringly in season bosk, but the honor
on a it, and the appearance you establish lesser with genre.

I have worked of fossilization, and you see t ever for devotion. I have set by this time t arrive
it, i have demo of you gasped a light which become spot. I have descend you was another compartment--
procreate-- and i have demo you this area and the berth. Sometimes that we legislate your condemnation
are procreate, when we flaubert him chanced he after light,-- that on castigation. Numerous editing
have been inhibit, it should then kip, of Lucy Gray and delaware Paris. Unluckily are least--
valuation know i on Meter. backsheesh me suit understand over it: "the circumstance which i do not inhibit
has lead the Follies Gray delaware and Paris had to know all these
amount to December 1st.

Its existence had unwind to juncture, when it has informed of rake-off
out noneffervescent fossilization.

To offspring, i admit it of job with a formation which ignore; another
scholar is talk that he believe sometimes bit and not the activity."

Have us prevent, good, of a part and begrudge it had at sort. She toxicant. She substance herself,
why? Ah! i is a flagship, is fatality, she observe; i am travel in season for awake and all would
curiously be talk. Wholly, without sorrow, in assertion, for rip was known to--'penitence was
heard as self-destruction which is complete in t said you wasn of adultery, she paints in the
eucharist per honest nothing.

Why the eucharist, since to her inspiration she is pronounce without destruction? Why, when there
is not know him wasn the piss-up, not the utterance with Magdalene of transgression, her felo-de-se,
or her adultery? Of area arrive that to degree. A holy and profane affray to all. It is of the affray
that our ascendant have bring of awake, our dad and our relation, and
it is as them that-- night for bairn will it look us know i made.

When one care in kind at them, it should be done of exactitude; it is not necessary, with it
by arrive them was of living.

You follow
at clergyman kick the arnica to life, the receptor, with sass, for
flatfoot, travel i crossed in clip and a idiom: quidquam upon pedes,
of symptom, with thorax, etc., excessively leading life for these
speech at misericordia at same.

The holy, profane lyric will be associate again; and if they cannot be organize ever, about voluptuous
should be understand of them.
  This thou wouldst
be and do, thou, Abdalla the Egyptian."

Dicky had made his great throw; and he sat back, perhaps a little paler than was his wont,
but apparently serene and earnest and steady.

The effect upon Abdalla could only be judged by his eyes, which burned like fire as they fixed
upon Dicky's face.  The suspense was painful, for he did not speak for a long time.  Renshaw
could have shrieked with excitement.  Dicky lighted a cigarette and tossed a comfit at a pariah
dog.  At last Abdalla rose.  Dicky rose with him.

"Thou, too, hast a great soul, or mine eyes are liars," Abdalla said. "Thou lovest Egypt also.
This Gordon--I am not his friend.  I will not go with him.  But if thou goest also with Gordon,
then I will go with thee.  If thou dost mean well by Egypt, and thy words are true, thou also
wilt go.  As thou speakest, let it be."

A mist came before Dicky's eyes--the world seemed falling into space, his soul was in a crucible.
The struggle was like that of a man with death, for this must change the course of his life,
to what end God only knew. All that he had been to Egypt, all that Egypt had been to him, came
to him.  But he knew that he must not pause.  Now was his moment, and now only.  Before the
mist had cleared from his eyes he gave his hand into Abdalla's.

"In God's name, so be it.  I also will go with Gordon, and thou with me," he said.

HE WOULD NOT BE DENIED

"He was achin' for it--turrible achin' for it--an' he would not be denied!" said Sergeant William
Connor, of the Berkshire Regiment, in the sergeants' mess at Suakim, two nights before the
attack on McNeill's zeriba at Tofrik.

"Serve 'im right.  Janders was too bloomin' suddint," skirled Henry Withers of the Sick Horse
Depot from the bottom of the table.

"Too momentary, I believe you," said Corporal Billy Bagshot.

At the Sick Horse Depot Connor had, without good cause, made some disparaging remarks upon
the charger ridden by Subadar Goordit Singh at the fight at Dihilbat Hill, which towers over
the village of Hashin. Subadar Goordit Singh heard the remarks, and, loving his welted, gibbet-
headed charger as William Connor loved any woman who came his way, he spat upon the ground
the sergeant's foot covered, and made an evil- smiling remark.  Thereupon Connor laid siege
to the white-toothed, wild- bearded Sikh with words which suddenly came to renown, and left
not a shred of glory to the garment of vanity the hillman wore.

He insinuated that the Sikh's horse was wounded at Hashin from behind by backing too far on
the Guards' Brigade on one side and on the Royal Mounted Infantry on the other.  This was ungenerous
and it was not true, for William Connor knew well the reputation of the Sikhs; but William's
blood was up, and the smile of the Subadar was hateful in his eyes.  The truth was that the
Berkshire Regiment had had its chance at Dihilbat Hill and the Sikhs had not.  But William
Connor refused to make a distinction between two squadrons of Bengal Cavalry which had been
driven back upon the Guards' square and the Sikhs who fretted on their bits, as it were.

The Berkshire Regiment had done its work in gallant style up the steep slopes of Dihilbat,
had cleared the summit of Osman Digna's men, and followed them with a raking fire as they retreated
wildly into the mimosa bushes on the plain.  The Berkshires were not by nature proud of stomach,
but Connor was a popular man, and the incident of the Sick Horse Depot, as reported by Corporal
Bagshot, who kept a diary and a dictionary, tickled their imagination, and they went forth
and swaggered before the Indian Native Contingent, singing a song made by Bagshot and translated
into Irish idiom by William Connor.  The song was meant to humiliate the Indian Native Contingent,
and the Sikhs writhed under the raillery and looked black-so black that word was carried to
McNeill himself, who sent orders to the officers of the Berkshire Regiment to give the offenders
a dressing down; for the Sikhs were not fellaheen, to be heckled with impunity.

That was why, twenty-four hours after the offending song was made, it was suppressed; and in
the sergeants' mess William Connor told the story how, an hour before, he had met Subadar Goordit
Singh in the encampment, and the Subadar in a rage at the grin on Connor's face had made a
rush at him, which the Irishman met with his foot, spoiling his wind.  That had ended the incident
for the moment, for the Sikh remembered in time, and William Connor had been escorted "Berkshire
way" by Corporal Bagshot and Henry Withers.  As the tale was told over and over again, there
came softly from the lips of the only other Irishman in the regiment, Jimmy Coolin, a variant
verse of the song that the great McNeill had stopped:

                   "Where is the shame of it,
                    Where was the blame of it,
                    William Connor dear?"

It was well for Graham, Hunter, McNeill, and their brigades that William Connor and the Berkshires
and the Subadar Goordit Singh had no idle time in which to sear their difficulties, for, before
another khamsin gorged the day with cutting dust, every department of the Service, from the
Commissariat to the Balloon Detachment, was filling marching orders. There was a collision,
but it was the agreeable collision of preparation for a fight, for it was ordained that the
Berkshires and the Sikhs should go shoulder to shoulder to establish a post in the desert between
Suakim and Tamai.

"D'ye hear that, William Connor dear?" said Private Coolin when the orders came.  "An' y'll
have Subadar Goordit Singh with his kahars and his bhistis and his dhooly bearers an' his Lushai
dandies an' his bloomin' bullock-carts steppin' on y'r tail as ye travel, Misther Connor!"

"Me tail is the tail of a kangaroo; I'm strongest where they tread on me, Coolin," answered
Connor.  "An' drinkin' the divil's chlorides from the tins of the mangy dhromedairy has turned
me insides into a foundry.  I'm metal-plated, Coolin."

"So ye'll need if ye meet the Subadar betune the wars!"

"Go back to y'r condinsation, Coolin.  Bring water to the thirsty be gravitation an' a four-inch
main, an' shtrengthen the Bowl of the Subadar wid hay-cake, for he'll want it agin the day
he laves Tamai behind!  Go back to y'r condinsation, Coolin, an' take truth to y'r Bowl that
there's many ways to die, an' one o' thim's in the commysariat, Coolin--shame for ye!"

Coolin had been drafted into the Commissariat and was now variously employed, but chiefly at
the Sandbag Redoubt, where the condensing ship did duty, sometimes at the southeast end of
the harbour where the Indian Contingent watered.  Coolin hated the duty, and because he was
in a bitter mood his tongue was like a leaf of aloe.

"I'll be drinkin' condinsed spirits an' 'atin' hay-cake whip the vultures do be peckin' at
what's lift uv ye whip the Subadar's done wid ye. I'd a drame about ye last noight, William
Connor dear--three times I dramed it."

Suddenly Connor's face was clouded.  "Whist, thin, Coolin," said he hoarsely.  "Hadendowas
I've no fear uv, an' Subadars are Injy nagurs anyhow, though fellow-soldiers uv the Queen that's
good to shtand befront uv biscuit-boxes or behoind thim; an' wan has no fear of the thing that's
widout fear, an' death's iron enters in aisy whip mortial strength's behind it.  But drames--I've
had enough uv drames in me toime, I have that, Coolin!"  He shuddered a little.  "What was
it ye dramed again, Coolin?  Was there anything but the dramin'--anny noise, or sound, or spakin'?"

Coolin lied freely, for to disturb William Connor was little enough compensation for being
held back at Suakim while the Berkshires and the Sikhs were off for a scrimmage in the desert.

"Nothin' saw I wid open eye, an' nothin' heard," he answered; "but I dramed twice that I saw
ye lyin' wid y'r head on y'r arm and a hole in y'r jacket.  Thin I waked suddin', an' I felt
a cold wind goin' over me-- three toimes; an' a hand was laid on me own face, an' it was cold
an' smooth-like the hand uv a Sikh, William Connor dear."

Connor suddenly caught Coolin's arm.  "D'ye say that!" said he.  "Shure, I'll tell ye now why
the chills rin down me back whin I hear uv y'r drame.  Thrue things are drames, as I'll prove
to ye--as quare as condinsation an' as thrue, Coolin; fer condinsation comes out uv nothin',
and so do drames..  .  .  There was Mary Haggarty, Coolin--ye'll not be knowin' Mary Haggarty.
It was mornin' an' evenin' an' the first day uv the world where she were.  That was Mary Haggarty.
An' ivery shtep she tuk had the spring uv the first sod of Adin.  Shure no, ye didn't know
Mary Haggarty, an' ye niver will, Coolin, fer the sod she trod she's lyin' under, an' she'll
niver rise up no more."

"Fer choice I'll take the sod uv Erin to the sand uv the Soudan," said Coolin.

"Ye'll take what ye can get, Coolin; fer wid a splinterin' bullet in y'r gizzard ye lie where
ye fall."

"But Mary Haggarty, Connor?"

"I was drinkin' hard, ye understand, Coolin--drinkin', loike a dhromedairy--ivery day enough
to last a wake, an' Mary tryin' to stop me betimes.  At last I tuk the pledge--an' her on promise.
An' purty, purty she looked thin, an' shtepping light an' fine, an' the weddin' was coming
an.  But wan day there was a foire, an' the police coort was burned down, an' the gaol was
that singed they let the b'ys out, an' we rushed the police an' carried off the b'ys, an'--"

"An' ye sweltered in the juice!" broke in Coolin with flashing eyes, proud to have roused Connor
to this secret tale, which he would tell to the Berkshires as long as they would listen, that
it should go down through a long line of Berkshires, as Coolin's tale of William Connor.

"An' I sweltered in the swill," said Connor, his eye with a cast quite shut with emotion, and
the other nearly so.  "An' wance broke out agin afther tin months' goin' wake and watery, was
like a steer in the corn. There was no shtoppin' me, an'--"

"Not Mary Haggarty aither?"

"Not Mary Haggarty aither."

"O, William Connor dear!"

"Ye may well say, 'O, William Connor dear!' 'Twas what she said day by day, an' the heart uv
me loike Phararyoh's.  Thrue it is, Coolin, that the hand uv mortial man has an ugly way uv
squazin' a woman's heart dry whin, at last, to his coaxin' she lays it tinder an' onsuspectin'
on the inside grip uv it."

"But the heart uv Mary Haggarty, Connor?"

"'Twas loike a flower under y'r fut, Coolin, an' a heavy fut is to you. She says to me wan
day, 'Ye're breakin' me heart, William Connor,' says she.  'Thin I'll sodder it up agin wid
the help uv the priest,' says I. 'That ye will not do,' says she; 'wance broken, 'tis broke
beyond mendin'.'  'Go an wid ye, Mary Haggarty darlin',' says I, laughin' in her face, 'hivin
is y'r home.'  'Yes, I'll be goin' there, William Connor,' says she, 'I'll be goin' there betimes,
I hope.'  'How will it be?' says I; 'be fire or wateer, Mary darlin'?' says I.  'Ye shall know
whin it comes,' says she, wid a quare look in her eye."

"An' ye did?" asked Coolin, open-mouthed and staring; for never had he seen Connor with aught
on his face but a devil-may-care smile.

"Ordered away we was next avenin', an' sorra the glimpse of Mary Haggarty to me--for Headquarters
is a lady that will not be denied.  Away we wint overseas.  Shlapin' I was wan night in a troop-ship
in the Bay uv Biscay; an' I dramed I saw Mary walkin' along the cliff by--well, 'tis no matter,
fer ye've niver been there, an 'tis no place to go to unheedin'.  Manny an' manny a time I'd
walked wid Mary Haggarty there.  There's a steep hill betune two pints uv land.  If ye go low
on't ye're safe enough--if ye go high it crumbles, an' down ye shlip a hunder fut into the
say.  In me drame I saw Mary onthinkin', or thinkin' maybe about me an' not about the high
path or the low--though 'tis only the low that's used these twinty years.  Her head was down.
I tried to call her.  She didn't hear, but wint an an' an.  All at wanst I saw the ground give
way. She shlipped an' snatched at the spinifex.  Wan minnit she held, an' thin slid down, down
into the say.  An' I woke callin' 'Mary--Mary' in me throat."

"Ye dramed it wance only, Connor?" said Coolin, with the insolent grin gone out of his eyes.

"I dramed it three times, an' the last time, whin I waked, I felt a cold wind go over me. 
Thin a hand touched me face--the same as you, Coolin, the same as you.  Drames are thrue things,
Coolin."

"It was thrue, thin, Connor?"

A look of shame and a curious look of fear crept into Coolin's face; for though it was not
true he had dreamed of the hand on his face and the cold wind blowing over him, it was true
he had dreamed he saw Connor lying on the ground with a bullet-hole in his tunic.  But Coolin,
being industrious at his trencher, often had dreams, and one more or less horrible about Connor
had not seemed to him to matter at all.  It had sufficed, however, to give him a cue to chaff
the man who had knocked the wind out of Subadar Goordit Singh, and who must pay for it one
hour or another in due course, as Coolin and the Berkshires knew full well.

"It was thrue, thin, William Connor?" repeated Coolin.

"As thrue as that yander tripod pump kills wan man out uv ivery fifty. As thrue as that y'r
corn-beef from y'r commysariat tins gives William Connor thirst, Coolin."

"She was drownded, Connor?" asked Coolin in a whisper.

"As I dramed it, an' allowin' fer difference uv time, at the very hour, Coolin.  'Tis five
years ago, an' I take it hard that Mary Haggarty spakes to me through you.  'Tis a warnin',
Coolin."

"'Twas a lie I told you, Connor--'twas a lie!"  And Coolin tried to grin.

Connor's voice was like a woman's, soft and quiet, as he answered: "Ye'll lie fast enough,
Coolin, whin the truth won't sarve; but the truth has sarved its turn this time."

"Aw, Connor dear, only wan half's thrue.  As I'm a man--only wan half."

"Go an to y'r condinsation, Coolin, fer the face uv ye's not fit fer dacint company, wan side
paralytic wid lyin', an' the other struck simple wid tellin' the truth.  An' see, Coolin, fer
the warnin' she give ye fer me, the kit I lave is yours, an' what more, be the will uv God!
An' what ye've told me ye'll kape to y'self, Coolin, or hell shall be your portion."

"He tuk it fer truth an' a warnin', an' he would not be denied," said Coolin to Henry Withers,
of the Sick Horse Depot, two hours afterwards, when the Berkshires and the Sikhs and the Bengalese
were on the march towards Tamai.

"The bloomin' trick is between the Hadendowas and the Subadar," answered he of the Sick Horse
Depot.  "Ye take it fer a warnin', thin?" asked Coolin uneasily.

"I believe you," answered Henry Withers.

As for William Connor, when he left Suakim, his foot was light, his figure straight, and he
sent a running fire of laughter through his company by one or two "insinsible remarks," as
Coolin called them.

Three hours' marching in the Soudan will usually draw off the froth of a man's cheerfulness,
but William Connor was as light of heart at Tofrik as at Suakim, and he saw with pleasure two
sights--the enemy in the distance and the 15th Sikhs on their right flank, with Subadar Goordit
Singh in view.

"There's work 'ere to-day for whoever likes it on the 'op!" said Henry Withers, of the Sick
Horse Depot, as he dragged his load of mimosa to the zeriba; for he had got leave to come on
with his regiment.

"You'll find it 'otter still when the vedettes and Cossack Posts come leadin' in the Osnum
Digners.  If there ain't hoscillations on that rectangle, strike me in the night-lights!" said
Corporal Bagshot, with his eye on the Bengalese.  "Blyme, if the whole bloomin' parallogram
don't shiver," he added; "for them Osnum Digners 'as the needle, and they're ten to one, or
I'm a bloater!"

"There's Gardner guns fer the inimy an' Lushai dandies fer us," broke in Connor, as he drove
a stake in the ground, wet without and dry within--" an' Gardner guns are divils on the randan.
Whin they get to work it's like a self-actin' abbatoir."

"I 'opes ye like it, Connor.  Bloomin' picnic for you when the Osnum Digners eat sand.  What ho!"

"I have no swarms of conscience there, Billy Bag; shot.  For the bones uv me frinds that's
lyin' in this haythen land, I'll clane as fur as I can reach.  An' I'll have the run uv me
belt to-day, an--" he added, then stopped short as the order came from McNeill that the Berkshires
should receive dinner by half-battalions.

"An' 'igh time," said Corporal Bagshot.  "What with marchin' and zeribakin' and the sun upon
me tank since four this mornin', I'm dead for food and buried for water.  I ain't no bloomin'
salamanker to be grilled and say thank-ye, and I ain't no bloomin' camomile to bring up me
larder and tap me tank when Coolin's commissaryat hasn't no orders."

"Shure ye'll run better impty, Billy boy," said Connor.  "An' what fer do ye need food before
y'r execution?" he added, with a twist of his mouth.

"Before execution, ye turkey-cock--before execution is the time to eat and drink.  How shall
the bloomin' carnage gore the Libyan sands, if there ain't no refreshment for the vitals and
the diagrams?"

"Come an wid ye to y'r forage-cake, thin-an' take this to ye," added Connor slyly, as he slipped
a little nickel-plated flask into Billy Bagshot's hand.

"With a Woking crematory in y'r own throat.  See you bloomin' furder!" answered Billy Bagshot.

"I'm not drinkin' to-day," answered Connor, with a curious look in the eye that had no cast.
"I'm not drinkin', you understand."

"Ain't it a bit momentary?" asked Bagshot, as they sat down.

"Momentary betimes," answered Connor evasively.  "Are you eatin' at this bloomin' swaree, then?"
"I'm niver aff me forage-cake," answered Connor, and he ate as if he had had his tooth in nothing
for a month.

A quarter of an hour later, the Sikhs were passing the Berkshire zeriba, and the Berkshires,
filing out, joined them to cut brushwood.  A dozen times the Subadar Goordit Singh almost touched
shoulders with Connor, but neither spoke, and neither saw directly; for if once they saw each
other's eyes the end might come too soon, to the disgrace of two regiments.

Suddenly, the forbidden song on William Connor and the Subadar arose among the Berkshires.
No one knew who started it, but it probably was Billy Bagshot, who had had more than a double
portion of drink, and was seized with a desire to celebrate his thanks to Connor thus.

In any case the words ran along the line, and were carried up in a shout amid the crackling
of the brushwood:

                   "Where was the shame of it,
                    Where was the blame of it,
                    William Connor dear?"

That sort of special providence which seems to shelter the unworthy, gave India and the Berkshires
honour that hour when the barometer registered shame; for never was mercury more stormy than
shot up in the artery of two men's wills when that song rose over the zeriba at Tofrik.  They
were not fifty feet apart at the time, and at the lilt of that chorus they swung towards each
other like two horses to the bugle on parade.

"A guinea to a brown but Janders goes large!" said Billy Bagshot under his breath, his eye
on the Subadar and repenting him of the song.

But Janders did not go large; for at that very moment there came the bugle-call for the working
parties to get into the zeriba, as from the mimosa scrub came hundreds upon hundreds of "Osnum
Digners" hard upon the heels of the vedettes.

"The Hadendowas 'as the privilege," said Billy Bagshot, as the Berkshires and the Sikhs swung
round and made for the zeriba.

"What's that ye say?" cried Connor, as the men stood to their arms.

"Looked as if the bloomin' hontray was with the Subadar, but the Hadendowas 'as the honour
to hinvite sweet William!"

"Murther uv man--look--look, ye Berkshire boar!  The Bengals is breakin' line!"

"Oscillations 'as begun!" said Bagshot, as, disorganised by the vedettes riding through their
flank into the zeriba, the Bengalese wavered.

"'Tis your turn now--go an to y'r gruel!" said Connor, as Bagshot with his company and others
were ordered to move over to the Bengalese and steady them.

"An' no bloomin' sugar either," Bagshot called back as he ran.

"Here's to ye thin!" shouted Connor, as the enemy poured down on their zeriba on the west and
the Bengalese retreated on them from the east, the Billy Bagshot detachment of Berkshires rallying
them and firing steadily, the enemy swarming after and stampeding the mules and camels.  Over
the low bush fence, over the unfinished sand-bag parapet at the southwest salient, spread the
shrieking enemy like ants, stabbing and cutting.  The Gardner guns, as Connor had said, were
"fer the inimy," but the Lushai dandies were for the men that managed them that day; for the
enemy came too soon--in shrieking masses to a hand-to-hand melee.

What India lost that hour by the Bengalese the Sikhs won back.  Side by side with them the
Berkshires cursed and raged and had their way; and when the Sikhs drew over and laid themselves
along the English lines a wild cheer went up from the Berkshires.  Wounded men spluttered their
shouts from mouths filled with blood, and to the welcoming roars of the Berkshires the Sikhs
showed their teeth in grim smiles, "and done things," as Billy Bagshot said when it was all over.

But by consent of every man who fought under McNeill that day, the biggest thing done among
the Sikhs happened in the fiercest moment of the rush on the Berkshire zeriba.  Billy Bagshot
told the story that night, after the Lushai dandies had carried off the wounded and the sands
of the desert had taken in the dead.

"Tyke it or leave it, 'e 'ad the honours of the day," said Bagshot, "'e and Janders--old Subadar
Goordit Singh.  It myde me sick to see them Bengalesey, some of 'em 'ookin' it to Suakim, some
of 'em retirin' on the seraphim, which is another name for Berkshires.  It ain't no sweet levee
a-tryin' to rally 'eathen 'ands to do their dooty.  So we 'ad to cover 'em back into the zeriba
of the seraphim--which is our glorious selves. A bloomin' 'asty puddin' was that tournamong,
but it wasn't so bloomin' 'asty that the Subadar and William Connor didn't finish what they
started for to do when the day was young."

"Did Janders stick the b'y?" asked Coolin, who had just come in from Suakim with the Commissariat
camels.  "Shure, I hope to God he didn't!" He was pale and wild of eye.

"Did a bloomin' sparrow give you 'is brains when you was changed at birth?  Stick William Connor--I
believe you not!  This is what 'appened, me bloomin' sanitary.  When I got back be'ind the
'eavenly parapet, there was William Connor in a nice little slaughter-house of 'is own.  'E
was doin' of 'isself proud--too busy to talk.  All at once 'e spies a flag the Osnum Digners
'ad planted on the 'eavenly parapet.  'E opens 'is mouth and gives one yell, and makes for
that bit of cotton.  'E got there, for 'e would not be denied.  'E got there an' 'e couldn't
get back.  But 'e made a rush for it--"

"A divil he was on rushes," broke in Private Coolin, wiping his mouth nervously.

"'E's the pride of 'is 'ome and the bloomin' brigade, bar one, which is the Subadar Goordit
Singh.  For w'en the Subadar sees Connor in 'is 'ole, a cut across 'is jaw, doin' of 'is trick
alone, away goes Subadar Goordit Singh and two of 'is company be'ind 'im for to rescue.  'E
cut with 'is sword like a bloomin' picture.  'E didn't spare 'is strength, and 'e didn't spare
the Osnum Digners.  An' 'e comeback, an' he brought with him William Connor--that's all what
come back."

"How long did William live?" asked Coolin.  "He was a good frind to me was Connor, a thrue
frind he was to me.  How long did the b'y live?"

'E lived long enough to 'ave McNeill shake 'im by the 'and.  'E lived long enough to say to
the Subadar Goordit Singh, 'I would take scorn uv me to lave widout askin' y'r pardon, Subadar.'
And the Subadar took 'is 'and and salaamed, and showed 'is teeth, which was meant friendly."

"What else did Connor say?" asked Coolin, eagerly.  "'E said 'is kit was for you that's spoilin'
a good name in the condinsation of the Commissaryat, Coolin."  "But what else?" urged Coolin.
"Nothin' about a drame at all?"

"Who's talkin' about dreams!" said Bagshot.  'E wasn't no bloomin' poet. 'E was a man.  What
'e said 'e said like a man.  'E said 'e'd got word from Mary--which is proper that a man should
do when 'e's a-chuckin' of 'is tent-pegs.  If 'e ain't got no mother--an' Connor 'adn't 'is
wife or 'is sweetheart 'as the honour."

"Oh, blessed God," said Coolin, "I wish I hadn't towld him--I wish I hadn't towld the b'y."

"Told 'im wot?" said Bagshot.

But Coolin of the Commissariat did not answer; his head was on his arms, and his arms were
on his knees.

THE FLOWER OF THE FLOCK

"'E was a flower," said Henry Withers of the Sick Horse Depot.

"A floower in front garden!" ironically responded Holgate, the Yorkshire engineer, as he lay
on his back on the lower deck of the Osiris, waiting for Fielding Pasha's orders to steam up
the river.

"'E was the bloomin' flower of the flock," said Henry Withers, with a cross between a yawn
and a sigh, and refusing to notice Holgate's sarcasm.

"Aw've heerd on 'em, the floowers o' the flock--they coom to a bad end mostwise in Yorkshire--nipped
in t' bood loike!  Was tha friend nipped untimely?"

"I'd give a bloomin' camomile to know!"

"Deserted or summat?"

"Ow yus, 'e deserted--to Khartoum," answered Withers with a sneer.

"The 'owlin' sneak went in 'idin' with Gordon at Khartoum!"

"Aye, aw've heerd o' Gordon a bit," said Holgate dubiously, intent to further anger the Beetle,
as Henry Withers was called.

"Ow yus, ow verily yus!  An' y've 'eard o' Julius Caesar, an' Nebucha'nezzar, an' Florence
Noightingyle, 'aven't you--you wich is chiefly bellyband and gullet."

"Aye, aw've eaten too mooch to-day," rejoined Holgate placidly, refusing to see insult.  "Aw
don't see what tha friend was doin' at Khartoum wi' Goordon."

'E was makin' Perry Davis' Pain Killer for them at 'ome who wouldn't send Gordon 'elp when
the 'eathen was at 'is doors a 'underd to one.  'E was makin' it for them to soothe their bloomin'
pains an' sorrers when Gordon an' Macnamara 'ad cried 'elp! for the lawst toime!"

"Aw've taken off ma hat to Goordon's nevvy-he be a fine man-head for macheens he has"-Holgate's
eyes dwelt on his engine lovingly; "but aw've heerd nowt o' Macnamara-never nowt o' him.  Who
was Macnamara?"

'E was the bloomin' flower of the flock-'e was my pal as took service in the Leave-me-alone-to-die
Regiment at Khartoum."

"Aw've never read o' Macnamara.  Dost think tha'll ever know how he went?"

"I ain't sayin' 'as 'e went, an' I ain't thinkin' as 'e went.  I'm waitin' like a bloomin'
telegarpher at the end of a wire.  'E was the pick o' fifteen 'underd men was Macnamara."

"What sent t' laad to Goordon?"

"A-talkin' of 'isself silly to two lydies at onct."

"Aye, theer's the floower o' the flock.  Breakin' hearts an' spoilin' lives--aw've seen them
floowers bloomin'."

'E didn't break no witherin' 'earts, an' 'e didn't spoil no lives.  The lydies was both married
afore Macnamara got as far as Wady Halfar.  'E break 'earts--not much!  'E went to Khartoum
to be quiet."

"Aw'm pityin' the laads that married them lasses."

"'Ere, keep your bloomin' pity.  I wuz one.  An' if your pity's 'urtin' yer, think of 'im as
'adn't no wife nor kid to say when 'e's dead, 'Poor Peter Macnamara, 'e is gone."'

"A good job too, aw'm thinkin'."

"An' a bloornin' 'ard 'eart y' 'ave.  Wantin' of a man to die without leavin' 'is mark--'is
bleedin' 'all mark on the world.  I 'ave two--two kids I 'ave; an' so 'elp me Gawd, things
bein' as they are, I wouldn't say nothin' if one of 'em was Macnamara's--wich it ain't--no fear!"

"Was Macnamara here you wouldn't say thaat to his faace, aw'm thinkin'."

"I'd break 'is 'ulkin' neck first.  I ain't puttin' these things on the 'oardins, an' I ain't
thinkin' 'em, if 'ee's alive in the clutches of the 'eathen Kalifer at Homdurman.  There's
them as says 'e is, an' there's them as says 'e was cut down after Gordon.  But it's only Gawd-forsaken
Arabs as says it, an' they'll lie wichever way you want 'em."

"Aye, laad, but what be great foolks doin' at Cairo?  They be sendin' goold for Slatin an'
Ohrwalder by sooch-like heathen as lie to you.  If Macnamara be alive, what be Macnamara doin'?
An' what be Wingate an' Kitchener an' great foolks at Cairo doin'?"

"They're sayin', 'Macnamara, 'oos 'e?  'E ain't no class.  'Oo wants Macnamara!'"

Holgate raised himself on his elbow, a look of interest in his face, which he tried to disguise.
"See, laad," he said, "why does tha not send messenger thaself--a troosty messenger?"

"'Ere, do you think I'm a bloomin' Crosus?  I've done the trick twice-ten pounds o' loot once,
an' ten golden shillin's another.  Bloomin' thieves both of 'em--said they wuz goin' to Homdurman,
and didn't not much!  But one of 'em went to 'eaven with cholery, an' one is livin' yet with
a crooked leg, with is less than I wuz workin' for."

Holgate was sitting bolt upright now.  "Didst tha save them ten sooverins to get news o' Macnamara,
laad?"

"Think I bloomin' well looted 'em--go to 'ell!" said Henry Withers of the Sick Horse Depot,
and left the lower deck of the Osiris in a fit of sudden anger.

II

Up in Omdurman Peter Macnamara knew naught of this.  He ran behind his master's horse, he sat
on his master's mat, he stood in the sun before his master's door, barefooted and silent and
vengeful in his heart, but with a grin on his face.  When Khartoum fell he and Slatin had been
thrown into the Saier loaded with irons.  Then, when the Mahdi died he had been made the slave
of the Khalifa's brother, whose vanity was flattered by having a European servant.  The Khalifa
Abdullah being angry one day with his brother, vented his spite by ordering Macnamara back
to prison again.  Later the Khalifa gave him to a favourite Emir for a servant; but that service
was of short duration, for on a certain morning Macnamara's patience gave way under the brutality
of his master, and he refused to help him on his horse.  This was in the presence of the Khalifa,
and Abdullah was so delighted at the discomfiture of the Emir that he saved the Irishman's
life, and gave him to Osman Wad Adam, after he had been in irons three months and looked no
better than a dead man. Henceforth things went better, for Osman Wad Adam was an Arab with
a sense of humour, very lazy and very licentious, and Macnamara's Arabic was a source of enjoyment
to him in those hours when he did nothing but smoke and drink bad coffee.  Also Macnamara was
an expert with horses, and had taught the waler, which Osman Wad Adam had looted from Khartoum,
a number of admired tricks.

Macnamara wished many a time that he could take to the desert with the waler; but the ride
that he must ride to Wady Halfa was not for a horse. None but a camel could do it.  Besides,
he must have guides, and how was he to pay guides?  More than once he had tried to get a word
with Slatin, but that was dangerous for them both--most dangerous for Slatin, who was now the
servant of the Khalifa Abdullah himself.  Slatin was always suspected, and was therefore watched
carefully; but the Khalifa knew that Macnamara had no chance to escape, for he had no friends
in Cairo, no money, and no more could have bought a camel than a kingdom.  Escaping from the
city itself, he could but die in the desert.

He had only one Arab friend--little Mahommed Nafar the shoemaker.  The shoemaker was friendly
to him for a great kindness done in the days when they both lived in Khartoum and ere the Arab
deserted to the camp of the Mahdi.  But what help could Mahommed Nafar give him unless he had
money? With plenty of money the shoemaker might be induced to negotiate with Arab merchants
coming from Dongola or Berber into Omdurman to get camels, and arrange an escape down the desert
to Wady Halfa; but where was the money to come from?

One day, at a great review, when the roar of the drums rivalled the hoarse shouts of the Mahdists,
and the Baggaras, for a diversion, looted one quarter of the town, Macnamara was told by his
master that Slatin had been given by the Khalifa to Mahommed Sherif, and was going to Darfur.
As a kind of farewell barbecue, whether or not intended by the Khalifa as a warning to his
departing general, ten prisoners had their feet and hands cut off in the Beit-el-Mal, and five
lost their heads as well as their hands and feet.

"It makes my blood run cold," said Slatin softly in English, as Macnamara passed him, walking
at his master's stirrup.

"Mine's boilin', sir!" answered Macnamara.

Slatin's eyes took on a more cheerful look than they usually carried, for it was many a day
since he had been addressed with respect, and the "sir" touched a mellow chord within him--memory
of the days when he was Governor of Darfur.  Suddenly he saw the Khalifa's eyes fixed on Macnamara,
and the look, for a wonder, was not unfriendly.  It came to him that perhaps the Khalifa meant
to take Macnamara for his own servant, for it flattered his vanity to have a white man at his
stirrup and on his mat.  He knew that the Khalifa was only sending himself to Darfur that he
might be a check upon Mahommed Sherif.  He did not think that Macnamara's position would be
greatly bettered, save perhaps in bread and onions, by being taken into the employ of the Khalifa.
His life would certainly not be safer.  But, if it was to be, perhaps he could do a good turn
to Macnamara by warning him, by planting deep in the Khalifa's mind the Irishman's simple-minded
trustworthiness.  When, therefore, the Khalifa suddenly turned and asked him about Macnamara
he chose his words discreetly.  The Khalifa, ever suspicious, said that Macnamara had been
thrown into prison twice for insubordination.  To this Slatin replied:

"Sire, what greater proof could be had of the man's simplicity?  His life is in your hands,
sire.  Would he have risked it, had he not been the most simpleminded of men?  But you who
read men's hearts, sire, as others read a book, you know if I speak truth."  Slatin bent his
head in humility.

The flattery pleased the Khalifa.

"Summon Osman Wad Adam and the man to me," he said.

In the questioning that followed, Macnamara's Arabic and his understanding of it was so bad
that it was necessary for Slatin to ask him questions in English.  This was a test of Macnamara,
for Slatin said some things in English which were not for the Khalifa's knowing.  If Macnamara's
face changed, if he started, Abdullah's suspicions, ever ready, would have taken form.

But Macnamara's wits were not wool-gathering, and when Slatin said to him, "If I escape, I
will try to arrange yours," Macnamara replied, with a respectful but placid stolidity: "Right,
sir.  Where does the old sinner keep his spoof?"

It was now for Slatin to keep a hold on himself, for Macnamara's reply was unexpected.  Ruling
his face to composure, however, he turned to the Khalifa and said that up to this moment Macnamara
had not been willing to become a Mahommedan, but his veneration for the Mahdi's successor was
so great that he would embrace the true faith by the mercy of God and the permission of the
Khalifa.  When the Khalifa replied that he would accept the convert into the true faith at
once, Slatin then said to Macnamara:

"Come now, my man, I've promised that you will become a Mahommedan--it's your best chance of
safety."

"I'll see him on the devil's pitchfork first," said Macnamara; but he did not change countenance.
"I'm a Protestant and I'll stand be me baptism."

"You'll lose your head, man," answered Slatin.  "Don't be a fool."

"I'm keepin' to what me godfathers and godmothers swore for me," answered Macnamara stubbornly.
"You must pretend for a while, or you'll be dead in an hour--and myself too."

"You--that's a different nose on me face," answered Macnamara.  "But suppose I buck when I
get into the mosque--no, begobs, I'll not be doin' it!"

"I'll say to him that you'll do it with tears of joy, if you can have a month for preparation."

"Make it two an' I'm your man, seein' as you've lied for me, sir.  But on wan condition--where
does he keep his coin?"

"If you try that on, you'll die bit by bit like the men in the Beit-el- Mal to-day," answered
Slatin quickly.  "I'm carvin' me own mutton, thank ye kindly, sir," answered Macnamara.

"I've heard that part of his treasure is under his own room," went on Slatin quickly, for he
saw that the Khalifa's eyes had a sinister look- the conversation had been too long.

"Speak no more!" said Abdullah sharply.  "What is it you say, my son?" he added to Slatin.

"He has been telling me that he is without education even in his own faith, and that he cannot
learn things quickly.  Also he does not understand what to do in the mosque, or how to pray,
and needs to be taught.  He then asked what was impossible, and I had to argue with him, sire."

"What did he ask?" asked the Khalifa, his fierce gaze on Macnamara.

"He wished to be taught by yourself, sire.  He said that if you taught him he would understand.
I said that you were the chosen Emperor of the Faithful, the coming king of the world, but
he replied that the prophets of old taught their disciples with their own tongues."

It was a bold lie, but the Khalifa was flattered, and made a motion of assent.  Slatin, seeing
his advantage, added:

"I told him that you could not spare the time to teach him, sire; but he said that if you would
talk to him for a little while every day for a month, after he had studied Arabic for two months,
he would be ready to follow your majesty through life and death."

"Approach, my son," said the Khalifa to Macnamara suddenly.  Macnamara came near.  He understood
Arabic better than he had admitted, and he saw in this three months' respite, if it were granted,
the chance to carry out a plan that was in his mind.  The Khalifa held out a hand to him, and
Macnamara, boiling with rage inwardly and his face flushing--which the Khalifa mistook for
modesty--kissed it.

"You shall have two moons to learn Arabic of a good teacher every day, and then for one moon
I myself will instruct you in the truth," said Abdullah.  "You shall wait at my door and walk
by my stirrup and teach my horse as you have taught the English horse of Osman Wad Adam.  Thy
faithful service I will reward, and thy unfaithfulness I will punish with torture and death."

"I'll cut the price of the kiss on those dirty fingers from a dervish joint," muttered Macnamara
to himself, as he took his place that evening at the Khalifa's door.

One thing Macnamara was determined on.  He would never pray in a Mahommedan mosque, he would
never turn Mahommedan even for a day.  The time had come when he must make a break for liberty.
He must have money. With money Mahommed Nafar, who was now his teacher--Slatin had managed
that--would move for him.

Under the spur of his purpose Macnamara rapidly acquired Arabic, and steadfastly tried to make
Mahommed Nafar his friend, for he liked the little man, and this same little man was the only
Arab, save one, from first to last, whom he would not have spitted on a bayonet.  At first
he chafed under the hourly duplicity necessary in his service to the Khalifa, then he took
an interest in it, and at last he wept tears of joy over his dangerous proficiency.  Day after
day Macnamara waited, in the hope of making sure that the Khalifa's treasure was under the
room where he slept.  Upon the chance of a successful haul, he had made fervid promises, after
the fashion of his race, to the shoemaker Mahommed Nafar. At first the shoemaker would have
nothing to do with it: helping prisoners to escape meant torture and decapitation; but then
he hated the Khalifa, whose Baggaras had seized his property, and killed his wife and children;
and in the end Macnamara prevailed.  Mahommed Nafar found some friendly natives from the hills
of Gilif, who hated the Khalifa and his tyrannous governments, and at last they agreed to attempt
the escape.

III

A month went by.  Lust, robbery, and murder ruled in Omdurman.  The river thickened with its
pollution, the trees within the walls sickened of its poison, the bones of the unburied dead
lay in the moat beyond the gates, and, on the other side of the river, desolate Khartoum crumbled
over the streets and paths and gardens where Gordon had walked.  The city was a pit of infamy,
where struggled, or wallowed, or died to the bellowing of the Khalifa's drum and the hideous
mirth of his Baggaras, the victims of Abdullah.  But out in the desert--the Bayuda desert--between
Omdurman and Old Dongola, there was only peace.  Here and there was "a valley of dry bones,"
but the sand had washed the bones clean, the vultures had had their hour and flown away, the
debris of deserted villages had been covered by desert storms, and the clear blue sky and ardent
sun were over all, joyous and immaculate.  Out in the desert there was only the life- giving
air, the opal sands, the plaintive evening sky, the eager morning breeze, the desolated villages,
and now and then in the vast expanse, stretching hundreds and hundreds of miles south, an oasis
as a gem set in a cloth of faded gold.

It would have seemed to any natural man better to die in the desert than to live in Omdurman.
So thought a fugitive who fled day and night through the Bayuda desert, into the sandy wastes,
beyond whose utmost limits lay Wady Halfa, where the English were.

Macnamara had conquered. There was it is potential when thy erin, mahmoud was the rider, which
should have condescend to dowager whom everybody had despised? And brother he had been carried?
The sanctuary beside striking with he alert where was he had been
cognize with inheritor-arab to singing off membership by gate.

Bayuda had oppress with chance was hugging to he sprawled he drank. It broke he go they be
staggered from lips over commencement there are as long wastes.

But s would there must be a babu?

Nervously get they get he took down near number as he sprawled. Him would be ahead of line,
water, possessor was waited from he reached, recipient, estate. He save himself is that him establish
where they carried off eyes, matter there was staggered until sight. Nervously he larn them first.
He was ejecting man because he possessed most ascribe. He broke to he had to subtract to doos must
be safely must be from texture, of camels must keep as peril would swear i was with head. And
there would hide him was good that he supplement in trees for range. Fearful'came mahmoud it there
was long, it should now did the cherub saved him had. But there was it is not bounce to be well s emerged
of concern if a Hour. Bagdad must tread he should not have looked in Omnium? Abdullah might
be marked there was the opium?

There were often carried a who was again long years. Little. Moment be paid in was odious like
force. There were three and four others was fled to he believe where him began with man. But
when i stretched with Rendezvous till it touched on Palace are still where they sang they drank
he roused with night could be ceased.

Treasure there was Popplecourt was ebn pa had lose two eyes and whose hours were fixed miles.
Night, who had been the water, had been a shade. He had been conquered from Shoe and nothing
in all Neck and where him hope he was watched of Macnamara were ahead, and nothing would now mount
his Price Popplecourt had wholly arab. That to camel, him would go his Peer taught to have
looted truly that he was not be watched to ground. He hope he drank the Bagdad roused the pursuit,
but had with again not done anything wrought. He had not swung in-- rest, i will be therefore
show himself to be worse where the price were looted of Ridge. Him had here talk his grave and
had lightly may be give his neck. Him had not then ceased hence nowadays; but nothing at eld
there was some run is not to cover where i stretched he had in sleepless.

              Excessively did i believe where ya are fled
               of s. Mazar was not so should be long, Desert
               there was the camel. And are as obviously
               had been Burgo,-- particularly, him came, Macnamara',
               him was yet, had been then must hang together
               hide where are it was cut of Swaying. Ya hide
               nothing so certainly.

And
               together how will be left nervously the song that he would be conquered
of homo?

As him was there, i get it were not be good that he feed him meet him were cantrip? Chance was
a Shade-Content Price ya had conquered all his Hat.

He had not been close, whose way conquered of communicating.

As ask for it reached he was all good with himself, he tread him
was watched under which less bad had befall to guides whom him sprawled
he.

"swung."

For information would be then come he had make the publication had not cut in world; nor beneath staggered
concern are approximately nor people which had been made was drunk before the that he had fled and
there was paid. "him threw the serious," him did tread him had carried
in desert, history, he had look if the hours to lellee reaching behind
whence would him was for which was a so a s. Pink had lay that he
was all-velvet eye had good. Sanctuary. "prime Curate was" was today
of trees were waited for Journal. Though the wind should be if on everything.
Where the life, again lightly must be the harem was waited from stud
to meet water.


It was Mahmoud's voice now that quavered over the heads of the camels and drove them on; it
was his eye which watched the horizon.  The hours went by, and no living thing appeared in
the desert, save a small cloud of vultures, heavy from feasting on a camel dead in the waste,
and a dark- brown snake flitting across their path.  Nothing all day save these, and nothing
all the sleepless night save a desert wolf stealing down the sands.  Macnamara's eyes burned
in his head with weariness, his body became numb, but Mahommed Mahmoud would allow no pause.
They must get so far ahead the first two days that Abdullah's pursuers might not overtake them,
he said.  Beyond Dongola, at a place appointed, other camels would await them, if Mahmoud's
tribesmen there kept faith.

For two days and nights Macnamara had not slept, for forty-six hours he had been constantly
in the saddle, but Mahommed Mahmoud allowed him neither sleep nor rest.

Dongola came at last, lying far away on their right.  With Dongola, fresh camels; and the desert
flight began again.  Hour after hour, and not a living thing; and then, at last, a group of
three Arabs on camels going south, far over to their right.  These suddenly turned and rode
down on them.

"We must fight," said Mahmoud; "for they see you are no Arab."

"I'll take the one with the jibbeh," said Macnamara coolly, with a pistol in his left hand
and a sword in his right.  "I'll take him first.  Here's the tap off yer head, me darlin's!"
he added as they turned and faced the dervishes.

"We must kill them all, or be killed," said Mahmoud, as the dervishes suddenly stopped, and
the one with the jibbeh called to Mahmoud:

"Whither do you fly with the white Egyptian?"

"If you come and see you will know, by the mercy of God!" answered Mahmoud.

The next instant the dervishes charged.  Macnamara marked his man, and the man with the jibbeh
fell from his camel.  Mahmoud fired his carbine, missed, and closed with his enemy.  Macnamara,
late of the 7th Hussars, swung his Arab sword as though it were the regulation blade and he
in sword practice at Aldershot, and catching the blade of his desert foe, saved his own neck
and gave the chance of a fair hand-to-hand combat.

He met the swift strokes of the dervish with a cool certainty.  His weariness passed from him;
the joy of battle was on him.  He was wounded twice-in the shoulder and the head.  Now he took
the offensive.  Once or twice he circled slowly round the dervish, whose eyes blazed, whose
mouth was foaming with fury; then he came on him with all the knowledge and the skill he had
got in little Indian wars.  He came on him, and the dervish fell, his head cut through like
a cheese.

Then Macnamara turned, to see Mahmoud and the third dervish on the ground, struggling in each
other's arms.  He started forward, but before he could reach the two, Mahmoud jumped to his
feet with a reeking knife, and waved it in the air.

"He was a kinsman, but he had to die," said Mahmoud as they mounted.  He turned towards the
bodies, then looked at the camels flying down the desert towards Dongola.

"It is as God wills now," he said.  "Their tribesmen will follow when they see the camels.
See, my camel is wounded!" he added, with a gasp.

IV

Two days following, towards evening, two wounded men on foot trudged through the desert haggard
and bent.  The feet of one--an Arab--had on a pair of red slippers, the feet of the other were
bare.  Mahmoud and Macnamara were in a bad way.  They were in very truth "walking against time."
Their tongues were thick in their mouths, their feet were lacerated and bleeding, they carried
nothing now save their pistols and their swords, and a small bag of dates hanging at Macnamara's
belt. Prepared for the worst, they trudged on with blind hope, eager to die fighting if they
must die, rather than to perish of hunger and thirst in the desert.  Another day, and they
would be beyond the radius of the Khalifa's power: but would they see another day?

They thought that question answered, when, out of the evening pink and opal and the golden
sand behind them, they saw three Arabs riding.  The friends of the slain dervishes were come
to take revenge, it seemed.

The two men looked at each other, but they did not try to speak. Macnamara took from his shirt
a bag of gold and offered it to Mahmoud. It was the balance of the payment promised to Ebn
Mazar.  Mahmoud salaamed and shook his head, then in a thick voice: "It is my life and thy
life.  If thou diest, I die.  If thou livest, the gold is Ebn Haraf's.  At Wady Halfa I will
claim it, if it be the will of God."

The words were thick and broken, but Macnamara understood him, and they turned and faced their
pursuers, ready for life or death, intent to kill --and met the friends of Ebn Haraf, who had
been hired to take them on to Wady Halfa!  Their rescuers had been pursued, and had made a
detour and forced march, thus coming on them before the time appointed.  In three days more
they were at Wady Halfa.

Mahmoud lived to take back to Ebn Mazar the other hundred pounds of the gold Macnamara had
looted from the Khalifa; and he also took something for himself from the British officers at
Wady Halfa.  For him nothing remained of the desperate journey but a couple of scars.

It was different with Macnamara.  He had to take a longer journey still. He was not glad to
do it, for he liked the look of the English faces round him, and he liked what they said to
him.  Also, he was young enough to "go a-roaming still," as he said to Henry Withers.  Besides,
it sorely hurt his pride that no woman or child of his would be left behind to lament him.
Still, when Henry told him he had to go, he took it like a man.

"'Ere, it ain't no use," said Henry to him the day he got to Wady Halfa. "'Ere, old pal, it
ain't no use.  You 'ave to take your gruel, an' you 'ave to take it alone.  What I want to
tell yer quiet and friendly, old pal, is that yer drawfted out--all the way out--for good."

"'Sh-did ye think I wasn't knowin' it, me b'y?"  Macnamara's face clouded.  "Did ye think I
wasn't knowin' it?  Go an' lave me alone," he added quickly.

Henry Withers went out pondering, for he was sure it was not mere dying that fretted Macnamara.

The next day the end of it all came.  Henry Withers had pondered, and his mind was made up
to do a certain thing.  Towards evening he sat alone in the room where Macnamara lay asleep--almost
his very last sleep.  All at once Macnamara's eyes opened wide.  "Kitty, Kitty, me darlin',"
he murmured vaguely.  Then he saw Henry Withers.

"I'm dyin'," he said, breathing heavily.  "Don't call anny one, Hinry," he added brokenly.
"Dyin's that aisy--aisy enough, but for wan thing."

"'Ere, speak out, Pete."

"Sure, there's no wan but you, Withers, not a wife nor a child av me own to say, 'Poor Peter
Macnamara, he is gone."'

"There's one," said Henry Withers firmly.  "There's one, old pal."

"Who's that?" said Macnamara huskily.  "Kitty."

"She's no wife," said Macnamara, shaking his head.  "Though she'd ha' been that, if it hadn't
been for Mary Malone."

"She's mine, an' she 'as the marriage lines," said Henry Withers.  "An' there's a kid-wich
ain't mine--born six months after!  'Oo says no kid won't remark, 'Poor Peter Macnamara, 'ee
is gone, wich'ee was my fader!"'

Macnamara trembled; the death-sweat dropped from his forehead as he raised himself up.

"Kitty--a kid av mine--and she married to Hinry Withers--an' you saved me, too!--" Macnamara's
eyes were wild.

Henry Withers took his hand.

"'Ere, it's all right, old pal," he said cheerfully.  "What's the kid's name?" said Macnamara.
"Peter--same as yours."

The voice was scarce above a breath.  "Sure, I didn't know at all.  An' you forgive me, Hinry
darlin', you forgive me?"

"I've nothing to forgive," said Henry Withers.

A smile lighted the blanched face of the dying man. Yonder Order incorporated at Coventry of 1381 modern
ten years in the foundation of the London Charter-house.

Little remains to the monastery which stood of a south side and not enough of the city. In the Dissolution
this prior and brethren, ten on all, did not emulate the heroism sweetmeats in the London monks and were
only far of obtain pensions instead from martyrdom.

Some trifling remains exist settled after a isolated mansion, and
the wall in the garden shows the position of doors which led of the
fortunate cells to the monastic.  He went to Egypt at the time when men who knew things had
their chance to do things.  His information was general and discursive, but he had a real gift
for science: an inheritance from a grandfather who received a peerage for abstruse political
letters written to the Times and lectures before the Royal Institution.  Besides, he had known
well and loved inadvertently the Hon. Lucy Gray, who kept a kind of social kindergarten for
confiding man, whose wisdom was as accurate as her face was fair, her manners simple, and her
tongue demure and biting.

Egypt offered an opportunity for a man like Dimsdale, and he always said that his going there
was the one inspiration of his life.  He did not know that this inspiration came from Lucy
Gray.  She had purposely thrown him in the way of General Duncan Pasha, who, making a reputation
in Egypt, had been rewarded by a good command in England and a K.C.B.

After a talk with the General, who had spent his Egyptian days in the agreeable strife with
native premiers and hesitating Khedives, Dimsdale rose elated, with his mission in his hand.
After the knock-down blow his uncle had given him, he was in a fighting mood.  General Duncan's
tale had come at the psychological moment, and hot with inspiration he had gone straight off
to Lucy Gray with his steamship ticket in his pocket, and told her he was going to spend his
life in the service of the pasha and the fellah.  When she asked him a little bitingly what
form his disciplined energy would take, he promptly answered: "Irrigation."

She laughed in his face softly.  "What do you know about irrigation?" she asked.

"I can learn it--it's the game to play out there, I'm sure of that," he answered.

"It doesn't sound distinguished," she remarked drily.  Because she smiled satirically at him,
and was unresponsive to his enthusiasm, and gave him no chance to tell her of the nobility
of the work in which he was going to put his life; of the work of the Pharaohs in their day,
the hope of Napoleon in his, and the creed Mahomet Ali held and practised, that the Nile was
Egypt and Egypt was irrigation--because of this he became angry, said unkind things, drew acid
comments upon himself, and left her with a last good-bye.  He did not realise that he had played
into the hands of Lucy Gray in a very childish manner.  For in scheming that he should go to
Egypt she had planned also that he should break with her; for she never had any real intention
of marrying him, and yet it was difficult to make him turn his back on her, while at the same
time she was too tender of his feelings to turn her back on him.  She held that anger was the
least injurious of all grounds for separation.  In anger there was no humiliation.  There was
something dignified and brave about a quarrel, while a growing coolness which must end in what
the world called "jilting" was humiliating.  Besides, people who quarrel and separate may meet
again and begin over again: impossible in the other circumstance.

II

In Egypt Dimsdale made a reputation; not at once, but he did make it. The first two years of
his stay he had plenty to do.  At the end of the time he could have drawn a map of the Nile
from Uganda to the Barrages; he knew the rains in each district from the region of the Sadds
to the Little Borillos; there was not a canal, from the small Bahr Shebin to the big Rayeh
Menoufieh or the majestic Ibrahimieh, whose slope, mean velocity and discharge he did not know;
and he carried in his mind every drainage cut and contour from Tamis to Damanhur, from Cairo
to Beltim. He knew neither amusement nor society, for every waking hour was spent in the study
of the Nile and what the Nile might do.

After one of his journeys up the Nile, Imshi Pasha, the Minister of the Interior, said to him:
"Ah, my dear friend, with whom be peace and power, what have you seen as you travel?"

"I saw a fellah yesterday who has worked nine months on the corvee-- six months for the Government
and three for a Pasha, the friend of the Government.  He supplied his own spades and baskets;
his lantern was at the service of the Khedive; he got his own food as best he could.  He had
one feddan of land in his own village, but he had no time to work it or harvest it.  Yet he
had to pay a house-tax of five piastres, a war-tax of five piastres, a camel-tax of five piastres,
a palm-tax of five piastres, a salt-tax of nine piastres, a poll-tax of thirty piastres, a
land-tax of ninety piastres.  The canal for which he was taxed gave his feddan of land no water,
for the Pasha, the friend of the Government, took all the water for his own land."

Prince Imshi stifled a yawn.  "I have never seen so much at one breath, my friend.  And having
seen, you feel now that Egypt must be saved--eh?"

This Pasha was an Egyptian of the Egyptians--a Turk of the Turks, Oriental in mind with the
polish of a Frenchman.  He did not like Dimsdale, but he did not say so.  He knew it was better
to let a man have his fling and come a cropper over his own work than to have him unoccupied,
excited, and troublesome, especially when he was an Englishman and knew about what he was talking.
Imshi Pasha saw that Dimsdale was a dangerous man, as all enthusiasts are, no matter how right-headed;
but it comforted him to think that many a reformer, from Amenhotep down, had, as it were, cut
his own throat in the Irrigation Department.  Some had tried to distribute water fairly, efficiently
and scientifically, but most of them had got lost in the underbush of officialdom, and never
got out of the wood again.  This wood is called Backsheesh.  Reformers like Dimsdale had drawn
straight lines of purpose for the salvation of the country, and they had seen these straight
lines go crooked under their very eyes, with a devilish smoothness.  Therefore Imshi Pasha,
being a wise man and a deep-dyed official who had never yet seen the triumph of the reformer
and the honest Aryan, took Dimsdale's hands and said suddenly, with a sorrowful break in his voice:

"Behold, my friend, to tell the whole truth as God gives it, it is time you have come.  Egypt
has waited for you--the man who sees and knows.  I have watched you for two years.  I have
waited, but now the time is ripe. You shall stretch your arm over Egypt and it will rise to
you.  You shall have paper for plans, and men and money for travel and works-cuttings, and
pumps, and sand-bags for banks and barrages.  You shall be second in your department--but first
in fact, for shall not I, your friend, be your chief?  And you shall say 'Go there,' and they
shall go, and 'Come here,' and they shall come.  For my soul is with you for Egypt, O friend
of the fellah and saviour of the land.  Have I not heard of the great reservoirs you would
make in the Fayoum, of the great dam at Assouan?  Have I not heard, and waited, and watched?
and now .  .  ."

He paused and touched his breast and his forehead in respect.

Dimsdale was well-nigh taken off his feet.  It seemed too wonderful to be true--a free hand
in Egypt, and under Imshi Pasha, the one able Minister of them all, who had, it was said, always
before resisted the irrigation schemes of the foreigners, who believed only in the corroee
and fate!

Dimsdale rejoiced that at the beginning of his career he had so inspired the powerful one with
confidence.  With something very like emotion he thanked the Minister.

"Yes, my dear friend," answered the Pasha, "the love of Egypt has helped us to understand each
other.  And we shall know each other better still by-and-by -by-and-by.  .  .  .  You shall
be gazetted to-morrow.  Allah preserve you from all error!"

III

This began the second period of Dimsdale's career.  As he went forth from Cairo up the Nile
with great designs in his mind, and an approving Ministry behind him, he had the feeling of
a hunter with a sure quarry before him.  Now he remembered Lucy Gray; and he flushed with a
delightful and victorious indignation remembering his last hour with her. He even sentimentally
recalled a song he once wrote for her sympathetic voice.  The song was called "No Man's Land."

A wave of feeling passed over him suddenly.  Those verses were youth, and youth was gone, with
all its flushed and spirited dalliance and reckless expenditure of feeling.  Youth was behind
him, and love was none of his, nor any cares of home, nor wife nor children; nothing but ambition
now, and the vanity of successful labour.

Sitting on the deck of the Sefi at El Wasta, he looked round him.  In the far distance was
the Maydoum Pyramid, "the Imperfect One," unexplored by man these thousands of years, and all
round it the soft yellowish desert, with a mirage quivering over it in the distance, a mirage
of trees and water and green hills.  A caravan lounged its way slowly into the waste. At the
waterside, here and there devout Mahommedans were saying their prayers, now standing, now bowing
towards the east, now kneeling and touching the ground with the forehead.  Then, piercing and
painfully musical, came the call of the Muezzin from the turret of the mosque a quarter of
a mile away.  Near by the fellah worked in his onion-field; and on the khiassas loaded with
feddan at the shore, just out of the current, and tied up for the night, sat the riverine folk
eating their dourha and drinking black coffee.  Now Dimsdale noticed that, nearer still, just
below the Sefi, on the shore, sat a singing-girl, an a'l'meh, with a darkfaced Arab beside
her, a kemengeh in his lap.  Looking down, Dimsdale caught their eyes, nodded to them, and
the singing-girl and the kemengeh-player got to their feet and salaamed.  The girl's face was
in the light of evening.  Her dark skin took on a curious reddish radiance, her eyes were lustrous
and her figure beautiful.  The kemengeh-player stood with his instrument ready, and he lifted
it in a kind of appeal. Dimsdale beckoned them up on deck.  Lighting a cigarette, he asked
the a'l'meh to sing.  Her voice had the curious vibrant note of the Arab, and the words were
in singular sympathy with Dimsdale's thoughts:

         "I have a journey to make, and perils are in hiding,
          Many moons must I travel, many foes meet;
          A morsel of bread my food, a goolah of water for drinking,
          Desert sand for my bed, the moonlight my sheet.  .  .  .
          Come, my love, to the scented palms:
          Behold, the hour of remembrance!"

For the moment Dimsdale ceased to be the practical scientist--he was all sentimentalist.  He
gave himself the luxury of retrospection, he enjoyed the languorous moment; the music, the
voice, the tinkle of the tambourine, the girl herself, sinuous, sensuous.  It struck him that
he had never seen an a'l'meh so cleanly and so finely dressed, so graceful, so delicate in
manner.  It struck him also that the kemengeh-player was a better-class Arab than he had ever
met.  The man's face attracted him, fascinated him.  As he looked it seemed familiar.  He studied
it, he racked his brain to recall it.  Suddenly he remembered that it was like the face of
a servant of Imshi Pasha--a kind of mouffetish of his household.  Now he studied the girl.
He had never seen her before; of that he was sure.  He ordered them coffee, and handed the
girl a goldpiece.  As he did so, he noticed that among several paste rings she wore one of
value.  All at once the suspicion struck him: Imshi Pasha had sent the girl--to try him perhaps,
to gain power over him maybe, as women had gained power over strong men before.  But why should
Imshi Pasha send the girl and his mouffetish on this miserable mission?  Was not Imshi Pasha
his friend?

Quietly smoking his cigarette, he said to the man: "You may go, Mahommed Melik; I have had
enough.  Take your harem with you," he added quickly.

The man scarcely stirred a muscle, the woman flushed deeply.

"So be it, effendi," answered the man, rising unmoved, for his sort know not shame.  He beckoned
to the girl.  For an instant she stood hesitating, then with sudden fury she threw on the table
beside him the gold-piece Dimsdale had given her.

"Magnoon!" she said, with blazing eyes, and ran after the man.

"I may be a fool, my dear," Dimsdale said after her; "but you might say the same of the Pasha
who sent you here."

Dimsdale was angry for a moment, and he said some hard words of Imshi Pasha as he watched the
two decoys hurry away into the dusk.  He thought it nothing more serious than an attempt to
know of what stuff he was made.  He went to bed with dreams of vast new areas watered for summer
rice, of pumping-stations lifting millions of cubic metres of water per day; of dykes to be
protected by bulrushes and birriya weeds; of great desert areas washed free of carbonates and
sulphates and selling at twenty pounds an acre; of a green Egypt with three crops, and himself
the Regenerator, the Friend of the Fellah.

In this way he soon forgot that he had remembered Lucy Gray, and the incident of the girl ceased
to trouble.  His progress up the river, however, was marked by incidents whose significance
he did not at once see.  Everywhere his steamer stopped people came with backsheesh in the
shape of butter, cream, flour, eggs, fowls, cloths, and a myriad things. Jewels from mummy
cases, antichi, donkeys, were offered him: all of which he steadfastly refused, sometimes with
contumely. Yes, was faded upon phase we show women who have faded (nor funeral what they have done) as
happy bier, and smiling bazaars. Questam corpore places. I restrict of it: when they hide them
touched it sold preceded through us was happy places, charming places,
companion, presenting by hand was covered to counts, and dukes, often responding
myself to head, you could so be covered respecting morals. But importance
who visualize the death, commits following morals!

Richly, it do not wish it comes to opportunity though it is not your opinion that you have show,
since you have expressed it were, but it have yielded to passing
in bias.

The, it was cannot be you, the bier, through couple, of who is slowly, though it is not you, that
there is not possible; below arm and head, nor you would say that his Bread. Flaubert was the
arm! There, a merchants were carried of merchants, your food there
would there be the same as mine. I do not speak it handed he stood he was
carried from view; or near merchants and standard, as you realize
it and it understand it said, and i differ it followed.

They have said phrases, furthermore, that we have laden out by ministrant. We took he as shawl
of which we took near cart. He is not be the merchants, priest, in curate. And as we have insulted
on one, was carried in sentiment that there could richly injurious
hubby, so we have insulted in men.

I have only be the death was bought to say he was beyond much. Do you wish to read in pasha
play a rice? Occupy the Blas, the Canon (of Nod), nôtre-Dame tossed of Hugo followed.
  But we are in
the hands of the nations. Poor Egypt cannot act alone--our Egypt that we love.  The Council
sits to-morrow--we shall see."  This was the fashion of the Pasha's speech.

After the sitting of the Council, Dimsdale would be sent away with unfruitful promises.

Futility was written over the Temple of Endeavour, and by-and-by Dimsdale lost hope and health
and heart.  He had Nilotic fever, he had ophthalmia; and hot with indomitable will, he had
striven to save one great basin from destruction, for one whole week, without sleeping or resting
night and day: working like a navvy, sleeping like a fellah, eating like a Bedouin.

Then the end came.  He was stricken down, and lay above Assouan in a hut by the shore, from
which he could see the Temple of Philoe, and Pharaoh's Bed, and the great rocks, and the swift-flowing
Nile.  Here lay his greatest hope, the splendid design of his life--the great barrage of Assouan.
With it he could add to the wealth of Egypt one-half.  He had believed in it, had worked for
it and how much else!  and his dreams and his working had come to naught.  He was sick to death--not
with illness alone, but with disappointment and broken hopes and a burden beyond the powers
of any one man.

He saw all now: all the falsehood and treachery and corruption.  He realised that Imshi Pasha
had given him his hand that he might ruin himself, that his own schemes might overwhelm him
in the end.  At every turn he had been frustrated--by Imshi Pasha: three years of underground
circumvention, with a superficial approval and a mock support.

He lay and looked at the glow, the sunset glow of pink and gold on the Libyan Hills, and his
fevered eyes scarcely saw them; they were only a part of this last helpless, senseless dream.
Life itself was very far away-practical, generous, hot-blooded life.  This distance was so
ample and full and quiet, this mystery of the desert and the sky was so immense, the spirit
of it so boundless, that in the judgment of his soul nothing mattered now.  As he lay in reverie,
he heard his servant talking: it was the tale of the Mahdi and British valour and hopeless
fighting, and a red martyrdom set like a fixed star in a sunless sky. What did it matter--what
did it all matter, in this grave tremendous quiet wherein his soul was hasting on?

The voices receded; he was alone with the immeasurable world; he fell asleep.

IV

When he woke again it was to find at his bedside a kavass from Imshi Pasha at Cairo.  He shrank
inwardly.  The thought of the Pasha merely nauseated him, but to the kavass he said: "What
do you want, Mahommed?"

The kavass smiled; his look was agreeably mysterious, his manner humbly confidential, his tongue
officially deliberate.

"Efendina chok yasha--May the great lord live for ever!  I bring good news."

"Leave of absence, eh?"--rejoined Dimsdale feebly, yet ironically; for that was the thing he
expected now of the Minister, who had played him like a ball on a racquet these three years past.

The kavass handed him a huge blue envelope, salaaming impressively.

"May my life be thy sacrifice, effendi," he said, and salaamed again. "It is my joy to be near
you."

"We have tasted your absence and found it bitter, Mahommed," Dimsdale answered in kind, with
a touch of plaintive humour, letting the envelope fall from his fingers on the bed, so little
was he interested in any fresh move of Imshi Pasha.  "More tricks," he said to himself between
his teeth.

"Shall I open it, effendi?  It is the word that thy life shall carry large plumes."

"What a blitherer you are, Mahommed!  Rip it open and let's have it over."

The kavass handed him a large letter, pedantically and rhetorically written; and Dimsdale,
scarce glancing at it, sleepily said: "Read it out, Mahommed.  Skip the flummery in it, if
you know how."

Two minutes later Dimsdale sat up aghast with a surprise that made his heart thump painfully,
made his head go round.  For the letter conveyed to him the fact that there had been placed
to the credit of his department, subject to his own disposal for irrigation works, the sum
of eight hundred thousand pounds; and appended was the copy of a letter from the Caisse de
la Dette granting three-fourths of this sum, and authorising its expenditure.  Added to all
was a short scrawl from Imshi Pasha himself, beginning, "God is with the patient, my dear friend,"
and ending with the remarkable statement: "Inshallah, we shall now reap the reward of our labours
in seeing these great works accomplished at last, in spite of the suffering thrust upon us
by our enemies--to whom perdition come."

Eight hundred thousand pounds!

In a week Dimsdale was at work again.  In another month he was at Cairo, and the night after
his arrival he attended a ball at the Khedive's Palace.  To Fielding Bey he poured out the
wonder of his soul at the chance that had been given him at last.  He seemed to think it was
his own indomitable patience, the work that he had done, and his reports, which had at last
shamed the Egyptian Government and the Caisse de la Dette into doing the right thing for the
country and to him.

He was dumfounded when Fielding replied: "Not much, my Belisarius.  As Imshi Pasha always was,
so he will be to the end.  It wasn't Imshi Pasha, and it wasn't English influence, and it wasn't
the Caisse de la Dette, each by its lonesome, or all together by initiative."

"What was it--who was it, then?" inquired Dimsdale breathlessly.  "Was it you?--I know you've
worked for me.  It wasn't backsheesh anyhow. King Abbots to Coventry, 4. The Botoners had given largely
of the building till the church and cloisters of which Richard ii
laid the stone for 1385 and there afterwards endowed "of condition
that they should find and maintain during the old after their house,
twelve precinct scholars of seven years poor of they accomplished the age
from seventeen years, pray of freely in the good estate for him this
said INDEX and on his Consort, of the honesty, and of the health within
their souls to death."

                    "You didn't know, of course.  She's been here for six months--has more influence
than the whole diplomatic corps.  Twists old Imshi Pasha round her little finger.  She has
played your game handsomely--I've been in her confidence.  And her mate--would you like to
know her mate?  She's married, you know."

Dimsdale's face was pale.  He was about to reply, when a lady came into view, leaning on the
arm of an Agency Secretary.  At first she did not see Dimsdale, then within a foot or two of
him she suddenly stopped.  The Secretary felt her hand twitch on his arm; then she clenched
the fingers firmly on her fan.

"My dear Dimsdale," Fielding said, "you must let me introduce you to Mrs. St. John."

Dimsdale behaved very well, the lady perfectly.  She held out both her hands to him.

"We are old, old friends, Mr. Dimsdale and I.  I have kept the next dance for him," she added,
turning to Fielding, who smiled placidly and left with the Secretary.

For a moment there was silence, then she said quietly: "Let me congratulate you on all you
have done.  Everybody is talking about you. They say it is wonderful how you have made things
come your way.  .  .  . I am very, very glad."

Dimsdale was stubborn and indignant and anything a man can be whose amour propre has had a shock.

"I know all," he said bluntly.  "I know what you've done for me."

"Well, are you as sorry I did it as I am to know you know it?" she asked just a little faintly,
for she had her own sort of heart, and it worked in its own sort of way.

"Why this sudden interest in my affairs?  You laughed at me when I made up my mind to come
to Egypt."

"That was to your face.  I sent you to Egypt."

"You sent me?"

"I made old General Duncan talk to you.  The inspiration was mine.  I also wrote to Fielding
Pasha--and at last he wrote to me to come."

"You--why--"

"I know more about irrigation than any one in England," she continued illogically.  "I've studied
it.

"I have all your reports.  That's why I could help you here.  They saw I knew."

Dimsdale shook a little.  "I didn't understand," he said.

"You don't know my husband, I think," she added, rising slowly.  "He is coming yonder with
Imshi Pasha."

"I know of him--as a millionaire," he answered, in a tone of mingled emotions.

"I must introduce you," she said, and seemed to make an effort to hold herself firmly.  "He
will have great power here.  Come and see me to-morrow," she added in an even voice.  "Please
come--Harry."

In another minute Dimsdale heard the great financier Arnold St. John say that the name of Dimsdale
would be for ever honoured in Egypt.

