JOSEPH

                             THE DREAMER

                           By AMY STEEDMAN

                         THOMAS NELSON & SONS

                               NEW YORK

       *       *       *       *       *

The Story of Joseph

This is the story of Joseph, the boy who had the strangest and most exciting adventures of
any boy who ever lived.

Joseph was but a little lad when his mother died. His father, Jacob, had loved that mother
more than any one else in the world, so that when she died leaving Joseph and a baby brother,
Benjamin, all the love in the father's heart turned to his two little sons.

The elder brothers were strong, grown-up men, quite able to look after themselves, and no longer
needing their father's care; so perhaps it was no wonder that Jacob made a special favourite
of the little lad Joseph, and loved him best.

At first the older brothers took no notice of their father's way with the younger boy; but
as Joseph grew older they began to feel uneasy and envious. Why should this child be marked
out for special favour? Their father took no pains to hide the fact that the boy was the apple
of his eye. Even his clothes showed this.

While the brothers wore the ordinary shepherd clothing, Joseph had a beautiful coat of many
colours. His father had made it for him of different pieces of coloured cloth joined together,
and it was so gay and beautiful that every one who saw him wearing it said, "This must be the
son of a great chief!"

But if the gay coat made them angry, they were more angry still when Joseph began to dream
strange dreams, which he always told to them.

As they sat around in the fields watching the sheep, the boy would come running to them, full
of excitement, as he begged them to listen to a wonderful dream he had had.

"Hear, I pray thee, this dream that I have dreamed!" he cried, sitting down amongst them.

Another time his dream was about the stars; the sun and moon and eleven stars, he said, had
all bowed down before him. This was really more than his brothers could bear. Did he really
think he was going to rule over them? Were they to bow down before this boasting boy in his
fine coat?

Even his father did not quite approve of these dreams. But Joseph had not really meant to boast.
It was the wonder of the dreams that made him repeat them. If he was proud of his coat of many
colours, it was only because it was a gift from his father. He was a straightforward good-natured
boy, clever and brave, and ready to take his turn in watching the flocks or helping his brothers
with their work in the fields.

But it grew day by day more difficult to keep the peace at home, and the only quiet times were
when the elder brothers went farther afield to find new pasture for their flocks.

It was at one of these times, when the brothers had been gone for some time, that Jacob called
Joseph to him, and bade him go and find his brothers, and bring back news if they were safe
and well.

Joseph was now a lad of about seventeen, and this would be the first journey he had taken by
himself, so he was eager to show that he was to be trusted, and he set out most cheerfully.

After some days he arrived at Shechem, where his father had told him he would find his brothers.
But he could find no signs of them there. Unwilling to go home without news, Joseph wandered
about until he met a man who directed him to a place farther on where his brothers might be,
and at last he caught sight of their tents in a field far ahead. How lucky he was to find them,
he thought to himself, as he hurried forward eager to meet them.

It was a clear day, and the shepherds' keen eyes could see far along the winding road that
stretched out across the low hills towards Shechem. Long before Joseph came within hail, his
brothers saw his figure in the distance hastening towards them. Perhaps it was the gay colour
of his coat that first told them who it was, and perhaps it was the coat that reminded them
of their hate and envy, and brought back to their memory again those dreams so full of pride.

With dark looks of hate they watched the gay figure coming so joyfully towards them, and only
one heart felt any pity for the boy. Reuben, the eldest brother, made up his mind quickly that
he would save him if possible. Only he must set to work cunningly, for those other nine brothers
were very determined men.

So he began by suggesting that it seemed quite unnecessary to kill the boy themselves when
the easiest plan would be just to put him down the pit, which was close at hand, and there
leave him to die. (For he thought if he could persuade them to do this he would come back and
save Joseph when the others had gone.) Never dreaming of evil, Joseph came on, and now he ran
eagerly up to them and began to give them their father's message.

But the rough hands held out to him were not held out in welcome. The brothers seized the boy
and savagely tore off his beautiful coat, as if the very sight of it hurt their eyes, and then
they hurried him towards the pit which Reuben had pointed out.

Then Joseph knew that they meant to kill him. He knew that if they threw him into one of those
deep narrow pits there was no chance of climbing up its steep sides, even if he were not immediately
drowned in the water which often gathered at the bottom.

Was he never to see his father and little brother again? never to spend any more happy days
in the fields under the blue sky? It was useless to cry out and beg for pity. Reuben, the eldest
brother, who might have helped him, was not there, and the others he knew were merciless.

The pit was reached, and in spite of his cries strong hands pushed him forward and over the
edge. Down, down he fell into the blackness, until with a terrible thud he reached the bottom.
There was no water to break his fall, for the pit was dry.

Well--that was done! The cruel brothers went off to a little distance and began to eat their
midday meal. But scarcely had they begun when they caught sight of a company of travellers
passing along the road close by. There was a long train of camels laden with spices, evidently
on their way down to Egypt.

Here was a splendid opportunity of making some money out of their evil plan. Instead of leaving
Joseph to starve in the pit, they would fetch him out and sell him to these merchants. Most
likely they would get a good price for such a strong young slave.

Perhaps when Joseph heard their voices at the pit's mouth, and when they drew him up and lifted
him out into the sunshine again, he thought for a moment that they meant to be kind to him
after all. But that thought soon vanished.

The Midianite merchants were waiting, the bargain was struck, and very soon a rope was bound
round his hands, and he was tied to the saddle of the man who had bought him. He knew now they
had only taken him out of the pit to sell him as a slave.

Meanwhile Reuben had been keeping out of sight, waiting to return and rescue his young brother
as soon as it was safe to do so. Very cautiously at last he stole back. But, alas! when he
reached the pit he found that it was empty. In his distress he forgot his caution, and cared
no longer if his brothers guessed what he had meant to do.

"The child is not, and I, whither shall I go?" he cried to them in bitter sorrow when he met them.

With angry, sullen looks they told him that Joseph was now far away on his road to Egypt. Reuben
must keep their secret. There was but one thing to be done. Joseph's coat lay there, just as
they had torn it off his back. They would dip the coat in goat's blood and carry it to their
father.

The poor, gay-coloured little coat, all blood-stained and torn, was brought and held up before
Jacob's eyes.

"This have we found," said the brothers; "know now whether it be thy son's coat or no?"

Did he not, indeed, know that coat of many colours? Had he not matched and joined together
each of the pieces? Had not his heart been filled with pride and love as he watched the boy
wearing it with such a gallant air? It was a terrible fate, and he might well have become sullen
and hopeless in the strange land of Egypt to which the merchantmen took him.

But instead of being sorry for himself, and thinking only of the unkindness and wickedness
of his cruel brothers, he made the best of everything, and set himself to do his new hard work
as well as possible. If he was a slave he would, at any rate, be a thoroughly good slave.

And very soon his master, Potiphar, found that this fair-haired, good-looking Hebrew boy was
one to be trusted, and, as time went on, he not only gave him his freedom, but made him the
chief servant of the house-hold. Then, just when happy days began to dawn for Joseph, misfortune
once more overtook him.

His master's wife accused him of doing wrong, and declared he was thoroughly bad. And so all
his well-deserved favours were taken from him, and he was put into prison.

Even in prison Joseph's quiet goodness and his wise ways made him a favourite. He was the friend
of all the other prisoners, and before long he became the governor's right hand.

Still it was weary work to be shut up in prison, and he longed with all his heart for freedom,
and a chance to win a place for himself in the great world. He knew that Pharaoh, the King
of Egypt, was not unfriendly to strangers. If only he could reach his ear all might be well.

At last the chance came. There were two of Pharaoh's servants in the prison--one, the king's
cup-bearer, and the other his chief baker, and both these were sorely troubled one night because
of the dreams they had dreamt. They were sure these dreams had a meaning, but who was to explain
them?

Now Joseph had learned to know a great deal about dreams, and so he listened to these men and
told them what he thought their dreams must mean.

The chief baker's dream was a sad one. He had dreamt of three baskets which he carried on his
head--baskets filled with the king's food--but the birds had come and eaten up all the food.
"Alas!" said Joseph, "the three baskets must mean three days, and in three days the baker must
be hanged, and the birds would come and eat his flesh."

But the cup-bearer's dream was a happy one, for he had seen a vine which bore three clusters
of grapes, which he had pressed out into the king's cup and presented to Pharaoh. The three
clusters of grapes were again three days, said Joseph, and in three days' time the cup-bearer
would be once more free and hand the king his golden cup.

In three days all that Joseph had said came true. The chief baker was hanged, and the chief
butler was set free, and stood once more before the king; only he quite forgot the man who
had been so kind to him in prison, and for two years never once thought of Joseph.

But at last something happened that reminded him. Once again it was a dream, but this time
the dreamer was Pharaoh, the great king. He had sent for all the cleverest men in the land
to explain his dreams to him, but no one could find a meaning for them.

Then the cup-bearer suddenly remembered Joseph, and came and told the king all that had happened
to him when he was in prison. Surely it would be worth while to try this man. So Pharaoh sent
and brought Joseph out of prison, and asked him if it was true that he could tell the meaning
of dreams.

There was no pride nor boastfulness in Joseph's answer. Of himself, he said, he could do nothing;
but with God's help he would tell the king all that he could.

So Pharaoh told his dreams, and as Joseph listened he knew at once that they had been sent
as a warning from God. Seven years of good harvests and plenty of food were coming, and after
that seven years of famine, when, if all the food of the good years was eaten up, the people
would starve. The warning dreams had been sent so that the corn might be saved up and stored.
And it would be a good plan, said Joseph, to find the very wisest and best man in all the land
who would undertake to do this.

Pharaoh listened thoughtfully, and soon made up his mind. He felt at once that Joseph was a
man to be trusted.

"Forasmuch as God hath showed thee all this," he said, "there is none so discreet and wise
as thou art.

What a wonderful adventure this was for Joseph! One day only a poor unknown prisoner, and the
next the lord and ruler over all the land of Egypt--next only to the king in power.

But although Joseph's outside life was changed, he himself remained just the same. He was as
keen as ever on doing his best, as brave and fearless in serving God and the king, as wise
in ruling as he had been in serving.

So when the years of famine came there were great stores of corn laid up to feed the Egyptians,
and not only the people of Egypt, but strangers from other lands came to Joseph, the Ruler,
to buy food.

Then it was that one day ten tired, travel-stained men arrived at the city, saying they had
come from the far-distant land of Canaan to buy corn for their wives and families, who were
starving.

Joseph knew them at once. They were his ten brothers--those brothers whom he had last seen
when, as a helpless boy, he had knelt and begged them for mercy. Now they came kneeling to
the great ruler, little dreaming that this powerful prince was the young brother they had betrayed
and sold into slavery.

And Joseph did not mean to tell them just yet. He pretended to take them for spies, and he
spoke roughly to them.

"Thy servants are no spies," the brothers answered humbly. No, they must first prove their
words by bringing their youngest brother to him. They might leave one of their number behind
as a hostage, and take corn for their families, and return to fetch their brother. This he
said because he longed to see Benjamin again.

The men listened sadly to what the great man said. They must have the corn or their families
would starve. And yet how could they leave one of their brothers behind when they knew their
father would never allow Benjamin to return with them.

"This is just what we deserve," they said to one another. "We would not listen to Joseph when
he begged for mercy, and now this is our punishment."

"Did I not beg you not to hurt the child?" said Reuben.

They did not know, of course, that the great ruler could understand what they were saying in
their own language; but as Joseph listened he was obliged to turn away to hide the tears that
were in his eyes.

There was nothing for it but to agree to the conditions, so it was decided that Simeon should
be left behind, and the order was given that all the sacks should be filled with corn, and
that every man's ass should be laden with as much corn as could be carried; only, instead of
taking money for the corn, Joseph ordered that it should be secretly hidden in the sacks, each
man's money in his sack of corn.

So the men started off on their journey home, and travelling all day came at night to an inn
to rest. There one of the men opened his sack to give his ass some food. What, then, was his
surprise to find his bundle of money tied up in the mouth of his sack!

The other brothers gathered round and looked on in amazement. Yes, it was quite true. There
was the money which was the price of the corn--not a penny of it taken! What could it mean?

But they were still more amazed when at last they came to their journey's end and found, when
they opened their sacks, that all their money had been returned. There was a bundle of money
in each sack!

It was so strange that they grew uneasy and frightened. Then, too, they were obliged to tell
their father that Simeon had been left behind as a hostage, and that the great lord of the
country had taken them for spies, and had demanded that Benjamin should return with them before
he would believe their story.

But Jacob would not hear of parting with his youngest son. Had he not lost two sons already,
first his beloved Joseph, and now Simeon?

"Will you also take Benjamin from me?" he asked. "All these things are against me!"

In vain Reuben promised that he would bring Benjamin safely back. Jacob only shook his head.

Now that was all very well while the corn lasted; but when the famine still went on, and all
the corn was eaten up, there was nothing to be done but to go back to Egypt and try to buy
some more.

And it was no use going without Benjamin, for had not the great lord of the country declared,
"Ye shall not see my face except your brother be with you."

So at last Jacob was obliged to let his precious son go with his brothers, although it almost
broke his heart to part with him.

Now Joseph had been quite sure that his brothers would return, and when at last they appeared
he was overjoyed to see that Benjamin was with them. He ordered a great feast to be made, and
invited them all to dine with him; but still he kept his secret, and they did not guess who
he was, although they could not help noticing that Benjamin was singled out for special favor.

So their sacks were filled again with corn, and the brothers prepared to set out joyfully on
their return journey. Only this time Joseph had ordered his servants to put his silver cup
into Benjamin's sack.

The men had not gone far before they were overtaken by the great ruler's servants, who accused
them of stealing their lord's silver cup. Of course they indignantly denied this; but when
the baggage was searched the cup was found in Benjamin's sack.

Now indeed was their joy turned into blackest sorrow. They must go back at once to try and
explain matters to the lord of the land. But would he listen to them?

At first Joseph pretended to be very angry, but as he listened to their tale and heard how
they dared not face their father without the beloved youngest son, he saw that they had earned
his forgiveness, and he kept up the pretence no longer. Sending all the servants away he held
out his hands to his brothers, his eyes blinded with tears.

At first the brothers could scarcely believe their ears. Could this great lord really be their
little brother Joseph? And could he really forgive them their cruelty?

Then Joseph put his arm round Benjamin's neck and kissed him, and afterwards kissed each of
his other brothers, so that they began to feel that the wonderful story was real and not a
mere dream.

There was no fear of famine for them now. Nothing in all the land was too good for the brothers
of the great ruler, and ere long there were wagons and camels on their way to Canaan to fetch
Jacob, the old father, and all the wives and children belonging to the ten brothers. They would
all now share in Joseph's good fortune.

So Jacob's sorrow was turned into joy when the news was brought to him that Joseph was alive
and was governor over all the land of Egypt.

It sounded almost like a magic tale, and at first Jacob could not believe it; but at last,
when he saw the wagons and heard Joseph's own message to him, his heart was filled with joy
and thankfulness.

"It is enough," he cried. "Joseph, my son, is yet alive; I will go and see him before I die."

It was a long journey for such an old man; but joy gave him strength to endure it, and at the
end Joseph stood waiting to welcome him--Joseph the great ruler, clad in rich robes, living
in princely state, whose word was law, and who held the highest honors in the land.

       *       *       *       *       *

BOOKS IN THIS SERIES

JOSEPH THE DREAMER

THE BABE IN THE BULRUSHES

DAVID THE SHEPHERD BOY

THE CHILD JESUS

THE GOOD PHYSICIAN

THE GOOD SHEPHERD

       *       *       *       *       *

