"Or if the Council should spare thee--as is unlikely? The patience of the Body is as the patience
of Kings--scant; and its mercy is like unto its patience.... But say thou art spared: what
then? How long art thou prepared to wait until the Members of the Body shall again be in such
complete accord as now? When again shall all Hindustan be ripe for revolt?... Aho! Thou wouldst
have sweet patience in the waiting, Salig Singh!... Let matters rest as they be, my lord"--this
a trace imperiously. "Leave the man to me: I stand sponsor for him until the Gateway shall
have received him and--and perhaps for a little afterwards."

"Thou art right as ever." He lifted his gaze to meet hers and his eyes flamed. "I leave my
life on your knees, Naraini. I love thee and ... by all the gods, thou art altogether a woman!"

"And thou ... a man, your Highness?" she countered provokingly. "Nay!" she continued, evading
him with a supple squirm, "be content until this affair be consummated. Wait until the time
when an empress shall reign over all Bharuta and thou, my lord, shall be her Minister of State."

The man's voice shook. "That hour is not far off, my queen. Thou wilt not keep me waiting longer?"

She gave him the quick promise of her eyes. "Thou shouldst know--thou of all men, my lord....
But see!" It was necessary to distract him and she seized hastily upon the first pretext. "The
last day of the old order dawns ... and the dawn is crimson, my lord, as with blood!" Her soft
scarlet lips curled thirstily and showed her teeth, small, sharp and white as pearls. "I think,"
she added with somber conviction, "this omen is propitious!"

She swept away from him, toward the parapet. He took a single step in pursuit and halted, following
her with a glance that was at once a caress and a threat.

She paused only when she could go no further, and stood in silent waiting.

Deep down in the valley the city was stirring from its sleep; the dull and peaceful humming
of its hived hordes rose to her, pulsating in the still air. Above the eastern ridge the sky
was hot and angry, banded with magenta, scarlet, and cadmium, and shot with expanding shafts
of fierce radiance, like ribs of a fan of fire. In a long and breathless instant of suspense
the hilltops blushed with the glare and threw down the light to the night mists swimming in
the valley, rendering them opalescent, as with a heart of flame.

With eyes half-veiled by long languorous lashes the woman threw back her head until her swelling
throat was tense. She raised her arms and stretched them wide. The sun, soaring suddenly, a
crimson disk above the ridge, seemed to strike fire from her strange, savage beauty as from
a jewel. Bathed in its ruddy glare she seemed to embody in her frail, slight form all that
was singular to that cruel, passionate land of fire and steel. Her face became suffused, her
blood leaping in response to the ardour of the sun.

Her parted lips moved, but the man, who had drawn near enough to hear, caught two words only.

"Naraini!... Empress!"

CHAPTER XVII

THE WAY TO KATHIAPUR

Gall and wormwood in his mouth, more bitter than remorse, Amber became conscious. Or perhaps
it were more true to say that he struggled out of unconsciousness, dragging his ego back by
main will-power from the deep oblivion of drugged slumber. One by one his faculties fought
their way past the barrier, until he was fully sentient, save that his memory drowsed. His
head was hot and heavy, his eyes burned in their sockets like balls of live charcoal, a dulled
buzzing sounded in his ears, his very heart felt sore and numb; he was as one who wakes from
evil dreams to the blackness of foreknown despair.

He lay for a time without moving. Because it was dark and his memory not working properly,
time had ceased to be for him, and to-day was as yesterday and to-morrow. The ceiling-cloth
above him was blood-red with light from the sepoys' fire in the compound, and all was as it
had been when he had first lain down the night before. And yet....

Suddenly he raised himself upon the charpoy and called huskily for the khansamah. Promptly
the squat white figure that he remembered appeared in the doorway. "Bring lights," Amber ordered,
peremptory.

"Bring lights quickly--and water." And when the man had returned with a lamp, which he put
on the table, Amber seized the red earthenware water-jug and drained it greedily. Returning
it, empty, to the brown hands, he motioned to the man to wait, while he consulted his watch.
It had run down. He thrust it back into his pocket and enquired: "What's o'clock?"

"Eight of the evening, sahib."

Amber gasped and stared. "Eight of the ... Let me think. Go and bring me food and a brandy-peg--or,
hold on! Bring a bottle of soda-water and a glass only."

The khansamah withdrew. Amber fell back with his shoulders to the wall and stared unwinking
at the lamp. He distinctly remembered undressing before going to bed; he now found himself
fully clothed. He felt of his pocket, and found the emerald ring there, instead of in its chamois
case. Then it had not been a nightmare!

He had a bottle of brandy which had never been uncorked, in his travelling-kit. Rising, he
found it and inspected the cork narrowly to make sure it had not been tampered with; then he
drew it.

The khansamah returned with the glass and an unopened bottle of Schweppe's, and prepared the
drink under eyes that watched him narrowly. While Amber drank he laid a place for him at the
table. When he left the room a second time the Virginian produced his automatic pistol and
satisfied himself that it remained loaded and in good working order.

In the course of a few minutes the native reappeared with a tray of food and pot of coffee.
These arranged, he stood by the chair, ready to serve the guest. Then he found himself looking
into the muzzle of Amber's weapon, and became apparently rigid with terror.

"Sahib--!"

"Make no outcry, dog, and tell me no lies, if you value your contemptible life. Why did you
drug me--at whose instance?"

"Sahib!..."

"Answer me quickly, son of vipers!"

"By Dhola Baksh, hazoor, I am innocent! Another has done these things--he who served you last
night, belike, and whose place I have taken."

Now the oaths of India are many and various, so that a new specimen need not be held wonderful.
But Amber sat bolt upright, his eyes widening and his jaw dropping. "Dhola--!" he said, and
brought his teeth together with an audible click, staring at the khansamah as if he were a
recrudescence of a prehistoric mammal. He caught a motion of the head and a wave of the hand
toward the window, warning him that there might be an eavesdropper lurking without, and rose
admirably to the emergency.

"That is a lie, misbegotten son of an one-eyed woman of shame! By the Gateway at Kathiapur,
that is a lie! Speak, brother of jackals and father of swine, lest my temper overcome me and
I make carrion of you!"

"My lord, hear me!" protested the man in an extremity of fright. "These be the words of truth.
If otherwise, let my head be forfeit.... Early in the morning you returned from the lake, heavy
with sleep, and so soundly have you slept since that hour that no effort of mine could rouse
you, though many came to the door, making inquiry. I am Ram Lal, a true man, and no trafficker
in drugs and potions."

"Even so!" said Amber, ironic. "But if, on taking thought, I find you've lied to me ... Go
now and hold yourself fortunate in this, that I am not a man of hasty judgment."

"Hazoor!" Like a shadow harried by a wind of night, the khansamah scurried from the room. But
on the threshold he paused long enough to lay a significant finger upon his lips and nod toward
the table.

Amber put away his pistol, sighed from the bottom of his soul, and, seating himself, without
the least misgiving, broke his long fast with ravenous appetite, clearing every dish and emptying
the coffee pot of all save dregs. Then, with a long yawn of satisfaction, repletion, and relief,
he lighted a cigarette and stretched himself, happily conscious of returning strength and sanity.

From the khansamah's quarters came an occasional clash of crockery and pattering of naked feet.
Outside, in the compound, the sepoys were chattering volubly; their words were indistinguishable,
but from their constantly increasing animation Amber inferred that they were keenly relishing
the topic of discussion. He became sure of this when, at length, his curiosity roused, he went
to the window and peered out between the wooden slats of the blind. The little company was
squatting in a circle round the fire, and a bottle was passing from hand to hand.

He turned back, puzzled, to find the khansamah calmly seated at the table and enjoying one
of Amber's choicest cigarettes.

"Thank God," he said, with profound emotion, "for a civilised smoke!"

"Labertouche!" cried Amber.

The pseudo-khansamah rose, bowed formally, and shook hands with considerable cordiality. "It's
good to see you whole and sound," he said. "I had to wait until Ram Nath's work began to show
results. He's out there, you know, keeping the bottle moving. I don't believe those damned
sepoys will bother us much, now, but we've got no time at all to spare. Now tell me what you
have to tell, omitting nothing of the slightest consequence."

Amber dropped into a chair, and the Englishman sat near to him. "I say, thank God for you,
Labertouche! You don't know how I've needed you."

"I can fancy. I've had a ripping time of it myself. Sorry I couldn't communicate with you safely
before you left Calcutta. But we've not a minute to waste. Get into your yarn, please; explanations
later, if we can afford 'em."

Inhaling with deep enjoyment, he narrowed his dark eyes, listening intently to Amber's concise
narrative of his experiences since their parting before the stall of Dhola Baksh in the Machua
Bazaar. Not once was he interrupted by word or sign from Labertouche; and even when the tale
was told the latter said nothing, but dropped his gaze abstractedly to the smouldering stump
of his cigarette.

"And you?" demanded the Virginian. "Have pity, Labertouche! Can't you see I'm being eaten alive
by curiosity?"

Labertouche eyed him blankly for an instant. "Oh!" he said, with an effort freeing his mind
from an intense concentration of thought. "I? What's there to tell? I've been at work. That's
all.... I was jostled off to one side when the row started in the bazaar, and so lost you.
There was then nothing to do but strike back to the hotel and wait for a clue. You can figure
my relief when you dropped out of that ticca-ghari! I gave you the word to go on to Darjeeling,
intending to join you en route. But you know why that jaunt never came off. I found out my
mistake before morning, wired you, and left Calcutta before you, by the same train that conveyed
his Majesty the Maharana of Khandawar. Fortunately enough we had Ram Nath already on the ground,
working up another case--I'll tell you about it some time. He's one of our best men--a native,
but loyal to the core, and wrapped up in his work. He'd contrived to get a billet as tonga-wallah
to the Kuttarpur bunia who has the dak-service contract. I myself had arranged to have the
telegraph-babu here transferred, and myself appointed in his place. So I was able to attach
myself to the 'tail' of the Maharana without exciting comment. Miss Farrell came by the same
train, but Salig Singh was in too great a hurry to get home to pay any attention to her, and
I, knowing you'd be along, arranged that tonga accident with Ram Nath. He bribed his brother
tonga-wallah to bring it about."

"Thank you," said Amber from his heart.

Labertouche impatiently waved the interruption aside. "I looked for you at the telegraph office
this morning, but of course when you didn't appear I knew something was up. So I concocted
a message to you for an excuse, came down, engaged the khansamah in conversation (I think he
had some idea I was an agent of the other side) and ... he is an old man, not very strong.
Once indoors, I had little trouble with him. He's now enjoying perfect peace, with a gag to
insure it, beneath his own charpoy. Ram Nath happened along opportunely and created a diversion
with his gin-bottle. That seems to be all, and I'm afraid we mayn't talk much longer. I must
be going--and so must you."

He glanced anxiously at his watch--a cheap and showy thing, such as natives delight in. Both
men rose.

"You return to the telegraph station, I presume?" said Amber.

"Not at all. It wouldn't be worth my while."

"How's that?"

"The wires haven't been working since ten this morning," said Labertouche quietly. Amber steadied
himself with the back of his chair. "You mean they've been cut?"

"Something of the sort."

"And that means--"

"That this infernal conspiracy is scheduled to come to a head to-night--as you must have inferred,
my dear fellow: this is the last night of your probation. The cutting off of Khandawar from
all British India is a bold move and shows Salig Singh's confidence. It means simply: 'Governmental
interference not desired. Hands off.' He knows well that we've spies here, that enough has
leaked out, unavoidably, to bring an army corps down on his back within twenty-four hours,
if he permitted even the most innocent-seeming message to get out of the city."

Amber whistled with dismay. "And you--"

"I'm going to find out for myself what's towards in Kathiapur."

"You're going there--alone?"

"Not exactly; I shall have company. A gentleman of the Mohammedan persuasion is going to change
places with me for the night. No; he doesn't know it yet, but I have reason to believe that
he got an R.S.V.P. for the festive occasion and intends to put in a midnight appearance. So
I purpose saving him the trouble. It's only a two-hour ride."

"But the risk!"

Labertouche chuckled grimly. "It's the day's work, my boy. I'm not sure I shan't enjoy it.
Besides, I mayn't hang back where my subordinates have not feared to go. We've had a man in
Kathiapur since day before yesterday."

"And I? What am I to do?"

"Your place is at Miss Farrell's side. No; you'd be only a hindrance to me. Get that out of
your thoughts. Three years ago I found time to make a pretty thorough exploration of Kathiapur,
and, being blessed with an excellent memory, I shall be quite at home."

Amber made a gesture of surrender. "Of course you're right," he said. "You're always right,
confound you!"

"Exactly," agreed Labertouche, smiling. "I'm only here to help you escape to the Residency.
Raikes and Colonel Farrell have already been advised to make preparations for a siege or for
instant flight, if I give the word. They need you far more than I shall. It would be simple
madness for you to venture to Kathiapur to-night. The case is clear enough for you to see the
folly of doing anything of the sort."

"It may be clear to you...."

"See here," said Labertouche, with pardonable impatience; "I'm presuming that you know enough
of Indian history to be aware that the Rutton dynasty in Khandawar is the proudest and noblest
in India; it has descended in right line from the Sun. There's not a living Hindu but will
acknowledge its supremacy, be he however ambitious. That makes it plain, or ought to, why Har
Dyal Rutton, the last male of his line, was--and is--considered the natural, the inevitable,
leader of the Second Mutiny. It devolved upon Salig Singh to produce him; Salig Singh promised
and--is on the point of failure. I can't say precisely what penalty he'll be called upon to
pay, but it's safe to assume that it'll be something everlastingly unpleasant. So he's desperate.
I can't believe he has deceived himself into taking you for Rutton, but whether or no he intends
by hook or crook to get you through this Gateway affair to-night. He's got to. Now you are--or
Rutton is--known to be disloyal to the scheme. Inevitably, then, the man who passes through
that Gateway in his name is to be quietly eliminated before he can betray anything--in other
words, as soon as he has been put through the 'Ordeal,' as they call it, for the sake of appearances
and the moral effect upon the Hindu race at large. Now I think you understand."

"I think I do, thanks," Amber returned drily. "You're quite right, as I said before. So I'm
off to the Residency. But how to get through that guard out there?"

He received no response. In as little time as it took him to step backwards from Amber, Labertouche
had resumed his temporarily discarded masquerade. Instantaneously it was the khansamah who
confronted the Virginian--the native with head and shoulders submissively bended, as one who
awaits an order.

Amber, surprised, stared, started to speak, received a sign, and was silent, the excuse for
Labertouche's sudden change of attitude being sufficiently apparent in an uproar which had
been raised without the least warning in the compound. The advent of a running horse seemed
to have been responsible for it, for the clatter of hoofs as the animal was checked abruptly
in mid-stride was followed by a clamour of drunken cries, shrieks of alarm, and protests on
the part of the sepoys disturbed in the midst of their carouse. Over all this there rang the
voice of an Englishman swearing good, round, honest British oaths.

"Stand aside, you hounds!"

Amber turned pale. "That's Farrell's voice!" he cried, guessing at the truth.

Labertouche made no answer, but edged toward the khansamah's quarters.

The din subsided as Farrell gained the veranda. His feet rang heavily on the boards, and a
second later he thrust the door violently open and slammed breathlessly into the room, booted,
spurred, his keen old face livid, a riding-whip dangling from one wrist, a revolver in the
other hand.

He wheeled on the threshold and lifted his weapon, then, with a gasp of amazement, dropped
it. "By Heaven, sir!" he cried, "that's odd! Those damned sepoys tried to prevent my seeing
you and now they've cleared out, every mother's son of them!"

Amber stepped to his side; to his own bewilderment, the compound was deserted; there was not
a sepoy in sight.

"So much the better," he said quickly, the first to recover. "What's wrong, sir?"

"Wrong!" Farrell stumbled over to the table and into a chair, panting. "Everything's wrong!
What's gone wrong with you, that we haven't been able to find you all day?"

"I've been lying there," Amber told him, nodding to the charpoy, "drugged. What's happened?
Is Miss Farrell--?"

"Sophia!" The Political lifted his hand to his eyes and let it fall, with an effect of confusion.
"In the name of charity tell me you know where she is!"

"You don't mean--"

"She's gone, Amber--gone! She's disappeared, vanished, been spirited away! Don't you understand
me? She's been kidnapped!"

In dumb torment, Amber heard a swift, sharp hiss of breath as pregnant with meaning as a spoken
word, and turned to meet Labertouche's eyes, and to see that the same thought was in both their
minds. Salig Singh had found the way to lure Amber to Kathiapur.

No spoken word was needed; their understanding was implicit on the instant. Indeed the secret-agent
dared not speak, lest he be overheard by an eavesdropper and so be the cause of his own betrayal.
With a flutter of white garments he slipped noiselessly from the room, and Amber knew instinctively
that if they were to meet again that night it would be upon the farther side of the Gateway
of Swords. For himself, his path of duty lay clear to the Virginian's vision; like Labertouche's,
it was the road to Kathiapur. He had no more doubt that Sophia had been conveyed thither than
he had of Farrell's presence before him. And in his heart he cursed, not Naraini, not Salig
Singh, but himself for his inept folly in bringing to India the photograph which had been stolen
from him and so had discovered to the conspirators his interest in the girl.

He thought swiftly of Dulla Dad's parting admonition: "You shall find but one way to Kathiapur."

"Well, sir? Well?" Exasperated by his silence the Political sprang to his feet and brought
the riding-crop against his leg with a smack like a gun-shot. "Have you nothing to say? Don't
you realise what it means when a white woman disappears in this land of devils? Good God! you
stand there, doing nothing, saying nothing, like a man with a heart of stone!"

"Speak French," Amber interposed quietly. He continued in that tongue, his tone so steady and
imperative that it brought the half-frantic Englishman to his senses. "Speak French. You must
know that we're spied upon every instant; every word we speak is overheard, probably. Tell
me what happened--how it happened--and keep cool!"

"You're right; I beg your pardon." Farrell collected himself. "There's little enough to go
on.... You disappointed us this morning. During the day we got word from a secret but trustworthy
source to look out for trouble from the native side. Nevertheless, Raikes and I were obliged,
by reason of our position, representing Government, to attend the banquet in honor of the coronation
to-morrow. We called in young Clarkson--the missionary, you know--to stay in the house during
our absence. When we returned the Residency was deserted--only we found Clarkson bound, gagged,
and nearly dead of suffocation in a closet. He could tell us nothing--had been set upon from
behind. Not a servant remained.... But, by the way, your man Doggott came in by the evening
dak-tonga."

"Where's Raikes?"

"Gone to the palace to threaten Salig Singh with an army corps."

"You know the telegraph wires are cut?"

"Yes, but how--"

"Never mind how I know--the story's too long. The thing to do is to get troops here without
a day's delay."

"But how?"

"Take Raikes, Clarkson, and Doggott and ride like hell to Badshah Junction. Telegraph from
there. The four of you ought to be able to fight your way through."

"But, man, my daughter!"

"I know where to find her--or think I do. No matter which, I'll find her and bring her back
to you safely, or die trying. You spoke just now of a secret but trustworthy source of information:
I work with it this night. I can't mention names--you know why; but that source was in this
room ten minutes ago. He's gone after your daughter now. I follow. No--I go alone. It's the
only way. I know how you feel about it, but believe me, the thing for you to do is to find
some way to summon British troops. Now the quicker you go, the quicker I'm off. I can't--daren't
move while you're here."

Farrell eyed him strangely. "I'll go," he said after a pause. "But ... why can't I--"

"There are just two white men living, Colonel Farrell, who can go where I am going to look
for your daughter to-night. I'm one of them. The other is--you know who."

"One of us is mad," said Farrell with conviction. "I think you are."

"Or else I know what I'm talking about. In either event you only hinder me now. Please go."

His manner impressed the man; for a moment Farrell lingered, doubting, then impetuously offered
his hand. "I'm hanged if I understand why," he said, "but somehow I believe you know what you're
about. Good-night and--and God be with you, Amber."

The Virginian followed him to the doorway. Farrell's horse, a docile, well-trained animal,
had come to the edge of the veranda to wait for his master. Otherwise the compound was as empty
as the night was quiet. Mounting, the Political waved a silent farewell and spurred off toward
the city. Amber passed back through the bungalow to the bund.

It was a wonderful blue night of clear moonlight, quickened by a rowdy wind that rioted down
the valley from the north. The roughened surface of the lake was dark save where the moon had
blazed its trail of shimmering golden scales. There was no boat visible, and for the first
time Amber's heart misgave him and he doubted whether it were not best to seek a mount from
the stables of the Residency and try to reach Kathiapur on his own initiative. But his ignorance
of the neighbouring topography was too great a handicap to be overcome; and now that Labertouche
had gone, he was without a friendly, guiding hand. He could but deliver himself into the hands
of the enemy and do what he might thereafter.

He lifted his voice and called: "Ohe, Dulla Dad!"

There came a soft shuffle of feet on the stones behind him, and the stunted, white-clad figure
of Dulla Dad stood at his side, making respectful obeisance. "Hazoor!"

"You damned spying scoundrel!" Amber cried, enraged. "You've been waiting there by the window,
listening!"

"Hazoor," the native quavered in fright, "it was cold upon the water and you kept me waiting
over-long. I landed, seeking shelter from the wind. If your talk was not for mine ears, remember
that you used a tongue I did not know."

"So you were listening!" Amber calmed himself. "Never mind. Where's your boat?"

"I thought to hide it in the rushes. If the hazoor will be patient for a little moment ..."
The native dropped down from the bund and disappeared into the reedy tangle of the lake shore.
A minute or so later Amber saw the boat shoot out from the shore and swing in a long, graceful
curve to the steps of the bund.

"Make haste," he ordered, as he jumped in and took his place. "If I have kept you waiting,
as you say, then I am late."

"Nay, there is time to spare." Dulla Dad spun the boat round and away. "I did but think to
anticipate your impatience, knowing that you would assuredly come."

"Ah, you knew that, Dulla Dad? How did you know?"

The man giggled softly, plying a busy paddle. "Am I not of the palace, hazoor? What are secrets
in the house of kings? Gossip of herders and bazaar-women!"

"And how much more do you know, Dulla Dad?" Amber's tone was ominous.

"I, hazoor? Who am I to know aught?... Nay, this have I heard"--he paused cunningly: "'You
shall find but one way to Kathiapur.'"

Amber, realising that he had invited this insolence, was fair enough not to resent it, and
held his peace until he could no longer be blind to the fact that the native was shaping a
course almost exactly away from the Raj Mahal. "What treachery is this, dog?" he demanded.
"This is not the way--"

"Be not mistrustful of your slave, hazoor," whined the native. "I do the bidding of those before
whose will I am as a leaf in the wind. It is an order that I land you on the bund of the royal
summer pavilion, by the northern shore of the lake. There will you find one waiting for you,
my lord."

Amber contented himself with a fresh examination of his pistol; it was all one to him, whatever
the route by which he was to reach Kathiapur, so long as the change involved no delay. But
this way across the water was so much longer than that which he had anticipated that he had
time to work himself into a state of fuming impatience before the boat finally ranged alongside
a pretentious marble bund backed by ragged plantations of palms and bananas. To the left the
white-columned facade of the Maharana's stately pleasure-house glimmered spectral in the moonlight.
It showed no lights, and Amber very naturally concluded that it was unoccupied.

He landed on the steps of the bund and waited for Dulla Dad to join him; but when, hearing
a splash of the paddle, he looked round, it was to find that the native had already put a considerable
distance between himself and the shore. Amber called after him angrily, and Dulla Dad rested
upon his paddle.

"Nay, Heaven-born!" he replied. "Here doth my responsibility end. Another will presently appear
to be your guide. Go you up to the jungly path leading from the bund."

The Virginian lifted his shoulders indifferently, and ascended to discover a wide footpath
running inland between dark walls of shrubbery, but quite deserted. He stopped with a whistle
of vexation, peering to right and left. "What the deuce!" he said aloud. "Is this another of
their confounded tricks?"

A low and marvellously sweet laugh sounded at his elbow, and he turned with a start and a flutter
of his pulses. "Naraini!" he cried.

It had been impossible to mistake the gracious lines of that slight, round figure, cloaked
though it was in many thicknesses of white veiling. She had stolen upon him without a sound,
and seemed pleased with the completeness of his surprise, for she laughed again before he spoke.

"Tell me not thou art disappointed, O my king!" she said, placing a soft hand firmly upon his
arm. "Didst thou hope to meet another here?"

"Nay, how should I expect thee?" His voice was gentle though he steeled his heart against her
fascinations; for now he had a use for her. "Had Dulla Dad conveyed me to the palace, then
I should have remembered thy promise to ride with me to Kathiapur. But, being brought to this
place..."

"Then thou didst wish to ride with me?" She nodded approval and satisfaction. "That is altogether
as I would have it be, Lord of my Heart. By this have I proven thee, for thou hast consented
to approach the Gateway, not altogether because the Voice hath summoned thee, but likewise,
I think, because thine own heart urged thee. Nay, but tell me, King of my Soul, did it not
leap a little at the thought of meeting me?"

With a quick gesture she threw her veil aside and lifted her incomparably fair face to his,
and he was conscious that he trembled a little, and that his voice shook as he answered evasively:
"Thou shouldst know, Ranee."

"Ahi! Then am I a happy woman, to think that, though thou wert in open mutiny against the Voice,
when I called, thou didst yield.... And thou art ready?"

"Am I not here?"

"Now of a verity do I know that thou art a man, my king!--a Rajput, a son of kings, and ...
my husband!" Pitched to a minor, thrilling key, her accents were as musical as the singing
of a 'cello. "For thou dost know what thou must dare this night of nights, and he is a brave
man who can dare so much, unfaltering. Tell me thou art not afraid, my king?"

"Why should I be?"

"Thou wilt not draw back in the end?" Her arms clipped him softly about the neck and drew his
head down so that her breath was fragrant in his face, her lips a sweet peril beneath his own.
"Thou wilt brave whatever may be prepared for thy testing, for the sake of Naraini, who awaits
thee beyond the Gateway; O my Beloved?"

"I shall not be found wanting."

Lithe as a snake, she slipped from his arms. "Nay, I trust thee not!" she laughed, a quiver
of tenderness in her merriment. "Let my lips be mine alone until thou hast proven thyself worthy
of them." She raised her voice, calling: "Ohe, Runjit Singh!"

The cry rang bell-clear in the stillness, and its silver echo had not died before it was answered
by one who stepped out from the black shadow of a spreading banian, some distance away, and
came toward them, leading three horses. As the moonlight fell upon him, Amber recognised the
uniform the man wore as that of the Imperial Household Guard of Khandawar, while the horses
seemed to be the stallions he had seen in the palace yard, with another but little their inferior
in mettle or beauty.

"Now," announced the woman in tones of deep contentment, "we will ride!"

She turned to Amber, who took her up in his arms and set her in the saddle of one of the stallions;
who, his bridle being released by the trooper, promptly leaped away and danced a spirited saraband
with his shadow, until Naraini, with a strength that seemed incredible when one recalled the
slightness of her wrists, curbed him in and taught him sobriety.

"By Har!" she panted, "but I think he must know that he carries to-night the destinies of empire!
Mount, mount, my lord, and bear me company if this son of Eblis tries to run away with me!"

The sowar surrendered to Amber the reins of the other stallion, and stepped hastily aside.
The Virginian took the saddle with a flying leap, and a thought later was digging his knees
into the brute's sleek flanks and sawing on the bits, while the path flowed beneath him, dappled
with moonlight and shadow, like a ribbon of grey-green silk, and trees and shrubbery streaked
back on either hand in a rush of melting blacks and greys.

Swerving acutely, the path ran into the dusty high-road. Amber heard a rush of hoofs behind
him, and then slowly the gauze-wrapped figure of the queen drew alongside.

"Maro! Let him run, my king! The way is not far for such as he. Have no fear lest he tire!"

But Amber set his teeth and wrought with the reins until his mount comprehended the fact that
he had met a master, and, moderating his first furious burst of speed, settled down into a
league-devouring stride, crest low, limbs gathering and stretching with the elegant precision
of clockwork. His rider, regaining his poise, found time to look about him and began to enjoy,
for all his cares, this wild race through the blue-white night.

Behind them, carbine on saddle-bow, the sowar thundered in pursuit, at an interval of about
a hundred yards--often greater, when the stallions would have it so and spent their temper
in brief, brisk contests for the leadership. On Amber's left the woman rode as one to the saddle
born, her face turned eagerly to the open road, smiling a little with excitement beneath the
tissue of thin veiling which the speed-bred breeze moulded cunningly to the contour of her
flawless features. The fire in her blood shone lambent in the eyes that now and again met Amber's.
More than once he heard her laugh low, with a lilt of happiness.

For himself he was drunk with the spirit of adventure. Bred of the moonlit sky and the far
shy stars, of the flooding moonlight breaking crisply against impenetrable shadows like surf
against black rocks, of the tune of hoofs, of the singing wind and sighing waters, a wild and
reckless humor possessed him, ran molten in his veins, swam in his brain like fumes of wine.

As the tale of miles increased, the valley opened out, and presently they swung to the west
from the northerly track, branching off into a rougher way through a wilder countryside. Rugged
hilltops marched beside them, looming stark black against the silvered purple of the sky. They
met no one, their road winding through a land whose grandeur was enhanced by its positive desolation--a
land tenanted only by a million devils of loneliness with naught to do save to fling back mocking
echoes of the road-song of the flying hoofs....

Toward the close of the second hour the valleys began to widen, the hills to be less lofty
and precipitous. The horses swung up gentler ascents, down slopes less sharp. The road ran
for a time along the bank of a broad and placid river, then crossed it by a massive arch of
masonry as old as history. They circled finally a great, round, grassless hillside, and pulled
rein in the notch of a gigantic V formed by two long, prow-like spurs running out upon a plain
whose sole, vague boundary was the vast arc of the horizon.

Before them loomed dead Kathiapur, an island of stone girdled by the shallow silver river.
Like the rugged pedestal of some mammoth column, its cliffs rose sheer threescore feet from
the water's edge to the foot of the outermost of its triple walls. From the notch in the hills
a great stone causeway climbed with a long and easy grade to the level of the first great gate,
spanning the chasm over the river by means of a crazy wooden bridge.

Above the broken rim of the three-fold walls the moon's unearthly splendor made visible a vast
confusion of crumbling cornices, blank walls, turrets, domes, and towers, the gnarled limbs
of dead trees, the luxuriant dark foliage of banian and pepal, palm and acacia. But nothing
moved and there was not a light to be seen. These things with the silence told the tale of
death. With the cessation of the ringing hoofbeats the stillness had closed down upon the riders
like a spell to break the which were to invite the wrath of the undying gods themselves. Other
than the silken breathing of the horses, an occasional muffled thud or the jingle of a bridle-chain
as one pawed the earth or tossed his head, they heard no sound. The unending hum of a living
city was not there. Sister of Babylon, Nineveh and Tyre, kin to Chitor and that proud city
of the plains that Jai Singh abandoned when he built him his City of Victory, Kathiapur is
as Tadmor--dead. The shell remains; the soul has flown.

A gasp from the woman and an oath from the sowar startled Amber out of somber apprehensions
into which he had been plunged by contemplation of this impregnable fortress of desolation.
Gone was his lust for peril, gone his high, heedless joy of adventure, gone the intoxication
which had been his who had drunk deep of the cup of Romance; there remained only the knowledge
that he, alone and single-handed, was to pit his wits against the invisible and mighty forces
that lurked in hiding within those walls, to seem to submit to their designs and so find his
way to the woman of his love, tear her from the grasp of the unseen, and with her escape...

Naraini had, indeed, no need to cry aloud or clutch his hand in order to apprise him that the
Eye was vigilant. He himself had seen it break forth, a lurid star of emerald light suspended
high above the dark heart of the city--high in the air where the moment gone there had been
nothing; so powerful that it shaded with sickly pallor the face of the woman, who clung shuddering
to Amber; so unpresaged its appearance and so malign its augury that it shook even the skepticism
of him whose reason had been nourished by the materialism of the Occident.

Slowly, while they watched, the star descended, foot by foot dropping until the topmost pinnacle
of a hidden temple seemed to support it; and there it rested, throbbing with light, now bright,
now dull.

Amber shook himself impatiently. "Silly charlatanry!" he muttered, irritated by his own susceptibility
to its sinister suggestion.... "I'd like to know how they manage it, though; the light itself's
comprehensible enough, but their control of it.... If there were enough wind, I'd suspect a
kite...."

"Thou art not dismayed, my king?"

He laughed, not quite as successfully as he could have wished, and, "Not I, Naraini," he returned
in English: a tongue which seemed somehow better suited for service in combating the esoteric
influences at work upon his mind. "What's the next turn on the programme?"

"I like not that tone, nor yet that tongue." The woman shivered. "Even as the Eye seeth, my
lord, so doth the Ear hear. Is it meet and wise to speak with levity of that in whose power
thou shalt shortly be?"

"Perhaps not," he admitted, thoughtful. "'In whose power I shall shortly be.' ... Well, of course!"

"And thou wilt go on? Thou art not minded to withdraw thy hand?"

"Not so that you'd notice it, Naraini."

"For the sake of the reward Naraini offers thee?" she persisted dangerously.

"I don't mind telling you that you'd turn 'most any man's head, my dear," he said cheerfully,
and let her interpret the words as she pleased.

She was not pleased, for her acquaintance with English was more intimate than she had chosen
to admit; but if she felt any chagrin she dissimulated with her never-failing art. "Then bid
me farewell, O my soul, and go!"

"Up there?" he enquired, lifting his brows.

"Aye, up the causeway and over the bridge, into the city of death."

"Alone?"

"Aye, alone and afoot, my king."

"Pleasant prospect, thanks." Amber whistled, a trifle dashed. "And then, when I get up there--?"

"One will meet thee. Go with him, fearing naught."

"And what will you do, meanwhile?"

"When thou shalt have passed the Gateway, my lord, Naraini will be waiting for thee."

"Very well." Amber threw a leg over the crupper, handed the stallion's reins to the sowar,
who had dismounted and drawn near, and dropped upon his feet.

Naraini nodded to the sowar, who led the animal away. When he was out of earshot the woman
leaned from the saddle, her glorious eyes to Amber's. "My king!" she breathed intensely.

But the thought of Sophia Farrell and what she might be suffering at that very moment was uppermost--obtruded
itself like a wall between himself and the woman. He had no further inclination for make-believe,
and he saw Naraini with eyes that nothing illuded. Quite as casually as though she had been
no more to him than a chance acquaintance, he reached up, took her hand, and gave it a perfunctory
shake.

"Good-night, my dear," he said amiably; and, turning, made off toward the foot of the causeway.

When he had gained it, he looked back to see her riding off at a wide angle from the causeway,
heading out into the plain. When he looked again, some two or three minutes later, Naraini,
the sowar, and the horses had vanished as completely as if the earth had opened to receive
them. He rubbed his eyes, stared, and gave it up.

So he was alone!... With a shrug, he plodded on.

CHAPTER XVIII

THE HOODED DEATH

The causeway down which the horsemen of forgotten kings of Khandawar had clattered forth to
war, in its age-old desuetude had come to decay. Between its great paving blocks grass sprouted,
and here and there creepers and even trees had taken root and in the slow immutable process
of their growth had displaced considerable masses of stone; so that there were pitfalls to
be avoided. Otherwise a litter of rubble made the walking anything but good. Amber picked his
way with caution, grumbling.

The grade was rather more steep than it had seemed to be from the plain. Now and then he stopped
to regain his breath and scrub a handkerchief over his forehead, on which sweat had started
despite the cold. At such times his gaze would seek inevitably and involuntarily, the lotus-pointed
pinnacle whereon the Eye was poised, blazing. Its baleful emerald glare coloured his mood unpleasantly.
He had a fancy that the thing was actually watching him. The sensation was creepy.

For that matter, nothing that met his eye was calculated to instil cheer into his heart. Desolation
worked with silence sensibly upon his thoughts, so that he presently made the alarming discovery
that the bottom had dropped completely out of his stock of scepticism, leaving him seriously
in danger of becoming afraid of the dark. Scowling over this, he stumbled on, telling himself
that he was a fool: a conclusion so patent that neither then nor thereafter at any time did
he find reason to dispute it.

After some three-quarters of an hour of hard climbing he came to the wooden bridge, and halted,
surveying it with mistrust. Doubtless in the olden time a substantial but movable structure,
strong enough to sustain a troop of warriors but light enough to be easily drawn up, had extended
across the chasm, rendering the city impregnable from capture by assault. If so, it had long
since been replaced by an airy and well-ventilated latticework of boards and timbers, none
of which seemed to the wary eye any too sound. Amber selected the most solid-looking of the
lot and gingerly advanced a pace or two along it. With a soft crackling a portion of the timber
crumbled to dust beneath his feet. He retreated hastily to the causeway, and swore, and noticed
that the Eye was watching him with malevolent interest, and swore some more. Entirely on impulse
he heaved a bit of rock, possibly twenty pounds in weight, to the middle of the structure.
There followed a splintering crash and the contraption dissolved like a magic-lantern effect,
leaving a solitary beam about a foot in width and six or eight inches thick, spanning a flight
of twenty and a drop of sixty feet. The river received the rubbish with several successive
splashes, distinctly disconcerting, and Amber sat down on a boulder to think it over.

"Clever invention," he mused; "one'd think that, after taking all this trouble to get me here,
they'd changed their minds about wanting me. I've a notion to change mine." He looked up at
the cusped and battlemented gateway opposite him, shifted his regard to the Eye, and shook
his fist vindictively at the latter. "If ever I get hold of the chap that invented you...!"
An ingenious imagination failing to suggest any form of torture commensurate with the crime,
he relapsed into gloomy meditation.

There seemed to be no possibility of turning back at that stage, however. Kuttarpur was rather
far away, and, moreover, he doubted if he would be permitted to return. Having come thus far,
he must go on. Moreover, Sophia Farrell was on the other side of that Swordwide Bridge, and
such being the case, cross it he would though he were to find the next world at its end. Finally
he considered that he was presently to undergo an Ordeal of some unknown nature, probably extremely
unpleasant, and that this matter of the vanishing bridge must have been arranged in order to
put him in a properly subdued and tractable frame of mind.

He got up and tested the remaining girder with circumspection and incredulity; but it seemed
firm enough, solidly embedded in the stonework of the causeway and immovable at the city end.
So he straddled it and, averting his eyes from the scenery beneath him, hitched ingloriously
across, collecting splinters and a very distinct impression that, as a vocation, knight-errantry
was not without its drawbacks.

When again he stood on his feet he was in the shadow of the outer gateway, the curtain of the
second wall confronting him. The stillness remained unbroken but the moonlight illuminated
with startling distinctness the frescoes, half obliterated by time, and they were monstrous,
revolting and obscene, from a Western point of view. A bastion of the third wall hid the Eye,
however; he was grateful for that.

Casting about, he discovered the second gateway at some distance to the left, and started toward
it, forcing a way through a tangle of scrubby undergrowth, weeds, and thorny acacia, but had
taken few steps ere a heavy splash in the river below brought him up standing, with a thumping
heart. After an irresolute moment he turned back to see for himself, and found his apprehension
only too well grounded; the Swordwide Bridge was gone, displaced by an agency which had been
prompt to seek cover--though he confessed himself unable to suggest where that cover had been
found. There was no one visible on the causeway, and nobody skulked in the shadows of the bastions
of the main gate. Furthermore it seemed hardly possible that in so scant a space of time human
hands could have worked that heavy beam out of its sockets. And if the hands had been human
(of course any other hypothesis were ridiculous) what had become of their owners?

He gave it up, considering that it were futile to badger his wits for the how and the wherefore.
The important fact remained that he was a prisoner in dead Kathiapur, his retreat cut off,
and--Here he made a second discovery, infinitely more shocking: his pistol was gone.

Amber remembered distinctly examining the weapon in Dulla Dad's boat, since when he had found
no occasion to think of it. Now either it had jolted out of his pocket in that wild ride from
Kuttarpur, or else Naraini had managed deftly to abstract it while in his arms by the summer
palace, or when, later, she had shrunk against him in real or affected terror of the Eye. Of
the two explanations his reason favoured the second. But he made no audible comment, though
his thoughts were as black as his brow and as grimly fashioned as the set of his jaw.

Turning back at length he made his way to the second gateway and from it to the third, under
the lewdly sculptured arch of which he stopped and gasped, forgetting himself as for the first
time Kathiapur the Fallen was revealed to him in all the awful beauty of its naked desolation.

A wide and stately avenue stretched away from the portals, between rows of dwellings, palaces
of marble and stone, tombs and mausoleums, with meaner houses of sun-dried brick and rubble,
roofless all and disintegrating in the slow, terrible process of the years. Here a wall had
caved in, there an arch had fallen out. The thoroughfare was strewn with fallen lintels, broken
marble screens, blocks of red sandstone, bricks, and in between them the fig and pipal nourished
with the bebel-thorn, the ak, the mimosa, the insidious convolvulus twining everywhere. At
the far end of the street a yawning black arch rose in the white, beautiful facade of a marble
temple on whose uppermost pinnacle the Eye hovered, staring horridly.

As Amber moved forward small, alert ghosts rose from the undergrowth and scurried silently
thence: a circumstance which made him very unhappy. Even a brilliant chorus of sharp barks
from an adjacent street failed to convince him that he had merely disturbed a pack of jackals,
after all, and not the disconsolate brooding wraiths of those who had died and been buried
in the imposing ruined tombs, what time Kathiapur boasted ten thousand swords and elephants
by the herd.

The way was difficult and Amber tired. After a while, having seen nothing but the jackals,
an owl or two, several thousand bats and a crawling thing which had lurched along in the shadow
of a wall some distance away, giving an admirable imitation of a badly wounded man pulling
himself over the ground, and making strange gutteral noises--Amber concluded to wait for the
guide Naraini had promised him. He turned aside and seated himself upon the edge of a broken
sandstone tomb. The silence was appalling and for relief he took refuge in cheap irreverence.
"Home," he observed aloud, "never was like this."

A heart-rending sigh from the tomb behind him was followed by a rattle of dislodged rubbish.
Amber found himself unexpectedly in the middle of the street and, without stopping to debate
the method of his getting there with such unprecedented rapidity, looked back hopefully to
the tomb. At the same moment a black-shrouded figure swept out of it and moved a few paces
down the street, then paused and beckoned him with a gaunt arm. "I wish," said Amber earnestly,
"I had that gun."

The figure was apparently that of a native swathed in black from his head to his heels and
seemed the more strikingly peculiar in view of the fact that, as far as Amber could determine,
he had neither eyes nor features although his head was without any sort of covering. He gulped
over the proposition for an instant, then stepped forward.

"Evidently my appointed cicerone," he considered. "Unquestionably this ghost-dance is excellently
stage-managed.... Though, of course, I had to pick out that particular tomb."

He followed in the wake of the figure, which sped on with a singular motion, something between
a walk and a glide, conscious that his equanimity had been restored rather than shaken by the
incident. "You wouldn't think," he reflected, "that a man like Salig Singh would lend himself
to anything so childish. Still, I'm not through with it yet." He conceived a scheme to steal
up behind his guide and strip him of his masquerade, but though he mended his pace he got no
nearer, and eventually abandoned it on the consideration that it was probably most inadvisable.
After all, he had to remember that he was there for a purpose, and a very serious one, and
that properly to further that purpose he must comport himself with dignity, submissively, accepting,
at least with a show of ease, each new development of the affair along its prearranged lines.
And so he held on in pursuit of the black shadow, passing forsaken temples and lordly pleasure-houses,
all marble tracery and fretwork, standing apart in what had once been noble gardens, sunken
tanks all weed-grown and rank with slime, humbler dooryards and cots on whose hearthstones
the fires for centuries had been cold--his destination evidently the temple of the unspeakable Eye.

As they drew nearer the leading shadow forsook the shade of the walls which he had seemed to
favour, sweeping hastily across a plaza white with moonglare and without pause on into the
black, gaping hole beyond the marble arch.

Here for the first time Amber hung back, stopping a score of feet from the door, his nerves
a-jangle. He did not falter in his purpose; he was going to enter the inky portal, but ...
would he ever leave it? And the world was still sweet to him. His quick, darting gaze registered
a dozen impressions in as many seconds: of the silver splendour spilled so lavishly upon the
soulless corpse of the city, of the high, bright sky, of dead black shadows sharp-edged against
the radiance, of the fleet flitting spectre that was really a flying-fox....

Afar a hyena laughed with a sardonic intonation wholly uncalled-for--it was blood-curdling,
besides. And down the street a melancholy air breathed gently, sighing like a soul astray.

"This won't do," he told himself; "it can't be worse inside than out here."

He took firm hold of his reason and went on across the dark threshold, took three uncertain
strides into the limitless unknown, and pulled up short, hearing nothing, unable to see a yard
before him. Then with a terrific crash like a thunder-clap the great doors swung to behind
him. He whirled about with a stifled cry, conscious of a mad desire to find the doors again,
took a step or two toward them, paused to wonder if he were moving in the right direction,
moved a little to the left, half turned, and was lost. Reverberating, the echoes of the crash
rolled far away and back again, diminishing in volume, dying until they were no more than as
a whisper adrift in the silence, until that was gone....

Profound night enveloped him, vast, breathless, without dimensions. One can endure the blackness
that abides within four well-kenned walls; but night unrelieved by the least gleam of light,
night without bounds or measurements, enfolding one like a stifling blanket and instilling
into the brain the fear of nameless things, quickening the respiration and oppressing the heart--that
is another thing entirely, and that is what Amber found in the Temple of the Bell. Darkness
swam visibly before his eyes, like a fluid. The sound of his constrained breathing seemed most
loud and unnatural. He could hear his heart rumbling like a distant drum.

Digging his nails into his palms, he waited; and in the suspense of dread began to count the
seconds.

One minute ... two ... three ... four....

He shifted his weight from one foot to the other....

Seven ...

He passed a hand across his face and brought it away wet with perspiration....

Nine ...

In some remote spot a bell began to toll; at first slowly--clang!... clang!... clang!--then
more quickly, until the roar of its sonorous, gong-like tones seemed to fill all the world
and to set it a-tremble. Then, insensibly, the tempo became more sedate, the fierce clamour
of it moderated, and Amber abruptly was alive to the fact that the bell was speaking--that
its voice, deep, clear, sound, metallic, was rolling forth again and again a question couched
in purest Sanskrit:

"Who is there?... Who is there?... Who is there?..."

The hair lifted on his scalp and he swallowed hard in the effort to answer; but the lie stuck
in his throat: he was not Rutton and ... and it is very hard to lie effectively when you stand
in stark darkness with a mouth dry as dust and your hair stirring at the roots because of the
intensely impersonal and aloof accents of an inhuman Bell-voice, tolling away out of Nowhere.

"Who is there?"

Again he failed to answer. Somewhere near him he heard a slight noise as of a man moving impatiently;
and then a whisper: "Respond, thou fool!"

"Art thou come, O Chosen of the Gateway?" the Bell-voice rang.

"I ... I am come," Amber managed to reply. And so still and small sounded his own voice in
the huge spaces of the place that he was surprised to find he had been heard.

"Hear ye!" rang the Bell. "Hear ye, O Lords and Rulers in Medhyama! O Children of my Gateway,
hear ye well! He is come! He stands upon the threshold of the Gateway!"

Resonant, the echoes of those awe-inspiring tones died upon the stillness, and in response
a faint sighing rose and, momentarily growing in volume, became as the roaring of a mighty
wind; and suddenly it was abrupted, leaving only a ringing in the ears.

A great drum roared like the crack of Doom; and Amber's jaw dropped. For in the high roof of
the temple a six-foot slab had been noiselessly withdrawn, and through it a cold shaft of moonlight
fell, cutting the gloom like a gigantic rapier, and smote with its immaculate radiance the
true Gateway of Swords.

Not six paces from him it leaped out of the darkness in an iridescent sheen: an arch a scant
ten feet in height, and in span double the width of a big man's shoulders, woven across like
a weaver's frame with ribbons of pale fire. But the ribbons were of steel--steel blades, sharp,
bright, gleaming: a countless array of curved tulwars and crescent scimetars, broad jataghans,
short and ugly kukurees, long kutars with straight ends, slender deadly patas, snake-like bichwas;
swords with jewelled hilts and engraved and damascened blades; sabres with channels cut from
point to guard wherein small pearls ran singing; khands built for service and for parade; swords
of every style and period in all the history of India. With their pommels cunningly affixed
so that their points touched and interlaced, yet swung free, they lined the piers of the arch
from base to span and all the graceful sweep of the intrados, a curtain of shimmering, trembling
steel, barring the way to the Mystery beyond. Which was--darkness.

"O ye Swords!" belled the Voice.... "O ye Swords that have known no dishonour! O ye Swords
that have sung in the grasp of my greatest! Swords of Jehangar, Akbar, Alamgir! Swords of Alludin,
Humayun, Shah Jehan! Swords of Timur-Leng, Arungzeb, Rao Rutton!..."

The invocation seemed interminable. Amber recognised almost every name noted in the annals
and legends of Hindustan....

"Hearken, O my Swords! He, thy Chosen, prayeth for entry! What is thy welcome?"

One by one the blades began to shiver, clashing their neighbours, until the curtain of steel
glimmered and glistened like phosphorescence in a summer sea, and the place was filled with
the music of their contact; and through their clamour boomed the Bell:

"O my Chosen!" Amber started and held himself firmly in hand. "Look well, look well! Here is
thy portal to kingship and glory!"

He frowned and took a step forward as if he would throw himself through the archway; for he
had suddenly remembered with compelling vividness that Sophia Farrell was to be won only by
that passage. But as he moved the swords clattered afresh and swung outwards, presenting a
bristle of points. And he stopped, while the Voice, indifferent and remote as always, continued
to harangue him.

"If thy heart, O my Chosen, be clean, unsullied with fear and guile; if thy faith be the faith
of thy fathers and thy honour rooted in love of thy land; if thou hast faith in the strength
of thy hands to hold the reins of Empire ... enter, having no fear."

"Trick-work," he told himself. He set his teeth with determination. "Hope they don't see fit
to cut me to pieces on suspicion. Here goes." He moved forward with a firm step until his bosom
all but touched the points.

Instantaneously, with another clash as of cymbals, the blades were deflected and returned to
their first position, closing the way. He hesitated. Then, "That shan't stop me!" he said through
his teeth, and pushed forward, heart in mouth. He breasted the curtain and felt it give; the
blades yielded jealously, closing round his body like cold caressing arms; he felt their chill
kisses on his cheeks and hands, even through his clothing he was conscious of their clinging,
deadly touch. Abruptly they swung entirely away, leaving the entrance clear, and he was drawing
a free breath when the moon glare showed him the swords returned to position with the speed
of light. He jumped for his life and escaped being slashed to pieces by the barest inch. They
swung to behind him; and again the drum roared, while afar there arose a furious, eldritch
wailing of conches. Overhead the opening disappeared and the light was shut out. In darkness
as of the Hall of Eblis the conches were stilled and the echoes ebbed into a silence that held
sway for many minutes ere again the Bell spoke.

"Stretch forth thy hand."

Somewhat shaken, Amber held out an open palm before him. A second time the gusty sighing arose
and breathed through the night, increasing until the very earth beneath him seemed to rock
with the magnitude of the sound, until, at its highest, it ceased and was as if it had not
been; not even an echo sang its passing. Then out of nothingness something plopped into Amber's
hand and his fingers closed convulsively about it. It was a hand, very small, small as a child's,
gnarled and hard as steel and cold as ice.

Amber sunk his teeth into his lower lip and subdued an almost uncontrollable impulse to scream
and fling the thing away; for his sense of touch told him that the hand was dead. And yet he
became sensible that it was tugging at his own, and he yielded to its persuasion, permitting
himself to be led on for so long a journey that his fingers clasping the little hand grew numb
with cold ere it was over. He could by no means say whither he was being conducted, but was
conscious of a long, gradual descent. Many times he swept his free arm out round him, but touched
nothing.

Abruptly the guiding hand was twisted away. He stopped incontinently, and possessed himself
with what patience he could muster throughout another long wait tempered by strange sibilant
whisperings and rustlings in the void all about him.

Without any forewarning two heavy hands gripped him, one on either shoulder, and he was forced
to his knees. At the same instant, with a snapping crackle a spurt of blue flame shot down
from the zenith, and where it fell with a thunderclap a dazzling glare of emerald light shot
up breasthigh.

To his half-blinded eyes it seemed, for a time, to dance suspended in the air before him. A
vapour swirled up from it, a thin cloud, luminous. By degrees he made out its source, a small,
brazen bowl on a tripod.

A confusion of hushed voices swelled as had the sound of that mighty, rushing, impalpable wind,
and died more slowly.

Conscious that his features were in strong light, he strove to exhibit an impassiveness that
belied his temper; then glancing round beneath lowered eyelids he sought to determine something
of the nature of his surroundings, but could see little. The hands had left his shoulders the
minute his knees touched the floor; he knelt utterly alone in the middle of what seemed to
be a vast hall, or cavern, of which the size was but faintly suggested. As his eyes became
accustomed to the chiaroscuro he became aware of monstrous images of stone that appeared to
advance from and retreat to the far walls on either hand as the green light flared and fell,
and of a great silent and motionless concourse of people grouped about the massive pedestals--a
crowd as contained and impassive as the gods that towered above its heads, blending into the
gloom that shrouded the high roof of the place.

In front of him he could see nothing beyond the noiselessly wavering flame. But presently a
hand appeared, as if by magic, above the bowl--a hand, bony, brown, and long of finger, that
seemed attached to nothing--and cast something like a powder into the fire. There followed
a fizz and puff of vapour, and a strong and heady gust of incense was wafted into Amber's face.
Again and again the hand appeared, sprinkling powder in the brazier, until the smoke clouded
the atmosphere with its fluent, eddying coils.

The gooseflesh that had pricked out on Amber's skin subsided, and his qualms went with it.
"Greek fire burning in a bowl," he explained the phenomenon; "and a native with his arm wrapped
to the wrist in black is feeding it. Not a bad effect, though."

It was, perhaps, as well that he had not been deceived, for there was a horror to come that
required all his strength to face. He became conscious that something was moving between him
and the brazier--something which he had incuriously assumed to be a piece of dirty cloth left
there carelessly. But now he saw it stir, squirm, and upend, unfolding itself and lifting its
head to the leaping flame: an immense cobra, sleek and white as ivory, its swelling hood as
large as a man's two hands, with a binocular mark on it as yellow as topaz, and with vicious
eyes glowing like twin rubies in its vile little head.

Amber's breath clicked in his throat and he shrank back, rising; but this instinctive move
had been provided against and before his knees were fairly off the rocky floor he was forced
down again by the hands on his shoulders. He was unable to take his eyes from the monster,
and though terror such as man is heir to lay cold upon his heart, he did not again attempt to stir.

There was now no sound. Alone and undisturbed the bleached viper warmed to its dance with the
pulsing flame, turning and twisting, weaving and writhing in its infernal glare....

"Hear ye, O my peoples!"

Amber jumped. The Voice had seemed to ring out from a point directly overhead.

He looked up and discovered above him, vague in the obscurity, the outlines of a gigantic bell,
hanging motionless. The green glare, shining on its rim and partly illumining its empty hollow
(he saw no clapper) revealed the sheen of the bronze of which it was fashioned.

Out of its immense bowl, the Voice rolled like thunder:

"Hear ye, O my peoples!"

A responsive murmur ascended from the company round the walls:

"We hear! We hear, O Medhyama!"

"Mark well this man, O Children of my Gateway! Mark well! Out of ye all have I chosen him to
lead thee in the work of healing; for I thy Mother, I Medhyama, I Bharuta, I the Body from
which ye are sprung, call me by whatever name ye know me--I am laid low with a great sickness....
Yea, I am stricken and laid low with a sickness."

A great and bitter wailing arose from the multitude.

"Yea, I am overcome with a faintness, and my strength is gone out from me, and my limbs are
as water; I am sick with a fever and languish; in my veins runs the Evil like fire and like
poison; and I burn and am stricken; I toss in my torment and murmur, and the sound of my Voice
has come to thine ears. Ye have heard me and answered. The tale of my sufferings is known to
ye. Say, shall I perish?"

In the brazier the flame leaped high and subsided, and with it the cobra leaped and sank low
upon its coils. From the people a mighty shout of negation went up, so that the walls rang
with it, and the echoes were bandied back and forth, insensibly decreasing through many minutes.
When all was still the Voice began to chant again, and the flames blazed higher and brighter,
while the cobra resumed its mystic dance.

Amber knelt on in a semi-stupor, staring glassily at the light and the serpent.

"I, thine old Mother, have called ye together to help in my healing. From my feet to my head
I am eaten with pestilence; yea, I am devoured and possessed by the Evil. Even of old was it
thus with thy Mother; long since she complained of the Plague that is Scarlet--moaned and cried
out and turned in her misery.... But ye failed me. Then my peoples were weaklings and their
hearts all were craven; the Scarlet Evil dismayed them; they fled from its power and left it
to batten on me in my sickness."

A deep groan welled in uncounted throats and resounded through the cavern.

"Will ye fail me again, O my Children?"

"Nay, nay, O our Mother!"

"Too long have I suffered and been patient in silence. Now must I be cleansed and made whole
as of old time; yea, I must be purged altogether and the Evil cast out from me. It is time....
Ye have heard, ye have answered; make ready, for the day of the cleansing approacheth. Whet
thy swords for the days of the healing, for my cleansing can be but by steel. Yea, thy swords
shall do away with the Evil, and the land shall run red with the blood of Bharuta, the blood
of thy Mother; it shall run to the sea as a river, bearing with it the Red Evil. So and no
otherwise shall I, thine old Mother, be healed and made whole again."

"Aye, aye, O our Mother!"

The flames, dying, rose once more, and the Voice continued, but with a change of temper. It
was now a clarion call, stirring the blood like martial music.

"Ye shall show me your swords for a token.... Swords of the North, are ye ready?"

"We are ready, old Mother!"

With a singing shiver of steel, all around the walls, in knots and clusters, naked blades leaped
up, flashing.

"Swords of the East, are ye loyal?"

"Aye, old Mother!"

And the tally of swords was doubled.

"Swords of the South, are ye thirsty?"

A third time the crashing response shattered the echoes.

"Swords of the West, do ye love me?"

With the fourth ringing shout and showing of steel, a silence fell. The walls were veritably
hedged with quivering blades, all a-gleam in the ghastly glare of green. Over the sculptured
faces of the great idols flickering shadows played, so that they seemed to move and grimace,
as if with approbation.

Amber was watching the serpent--dazed and weary as if with a great need of sleep. Even the
salvos of shouts came to him as from a great distance. To the clangour of the Bell alone he
had become abnormally sensitive; every fibre of his being shuddered, responsive to its weird
nuances.

It returned to its solemn and stately intoning.

"Out of ye all have I chosen and fixed upon one who shall lead ye. Through him shall my strength
be made manifest, my Will be made known to my peoples. Him must ye serve and obey; to him must
ye bow down and be humble. Say, are ye pleased? Will ye have him, my Children?"

Without an instant's delay a cry of ratification rang to the roof. "Yea, O our Mother! Him
we will serve and obey, to him bow down and be humble."

The Voice addressed itself directly to the kneeling man. He stiffened and roused.

"Thou hast heard of the honour we confer upon thee--I Medhyama, thy Mother, and these my children,
thy brothers. Ye shall lead and shall rule in Bharuta. Are ye ready?"

Half hypnotised, Amber opened his mouth, but no words came. His chin dropped to his breast.

"Thy strength must be known to my peoples; they must see thee put to the proof of thy courage,
that they may know thee to be the man for their leader.... Ye are ready?"

He was unable to move a finger.

"Stretch out thine arms!"

He shuddered and tried to obey. The Voice rang imperative.

"Stretch forth thine arms for the testing!"

Somehow, mechanically, he succeeded in raising his arms and holding them rigid before him.
Alarmed by the movement, the cobra turned with a hiss, waving his poisonous head. But the Virginian
made no offer to withdraw his hands. His eyes were wide and staring and his face livid.

A subdued murmur came from the men clustered round the idols, in semi-darkness.

The Bell boomed forth like an organ.

"O hooded Death.... O Death, who art trained to my service! Thou before whom all men stand
affrighted! Thou who canst look into their hearts and read them as a scroll that is unrolled
... Look deep into the heart of my Chosen! Judge if he be worthy or wanting, judge if he be
false or true ... Judge him, O Death!"

Before Amber the great serpent was oscillating like a pendulum, its little tongue playing like
forked red lightning, its loathsome red eyes holding his own. Terror gripped his heart, and
his soul curdled. He would have cried out, but that his tongue clave to the roof of his mouth.
He could not have moved had he willed to.

"Look well, O Death, and judge him!"

The dance of the Hooded Death changed in character, grew more frenzied; the white writhing
coils melted into one another in dizzying confusion; figure merged into figure like smoke....
The suspense grew intolerable.

"Hast thou judged him, O Death?"

Instantly the white cobra reared up to its utmost and remained poised over Amber, barely moving
save for the almost imperceptible throbbing of the hood and the incessant darting of the forked
tongue.

"If he be loyal, then spare him ..."

The hood did not move. Amber's flesh crawled with unspeakable dread.

"If he be faithless, then ... strike!"

For another moment the cobra maintained the tensity. Then slowly, cruel head waving, hood shrinking,
eyes losing their deathly lustre, coil by coil it sank.

A thick murmur ran the round of the walls, swelling into an inarticulate cry, which beat upon
Amber's ears like the raving of a far-off surf. From his lips a strangled sob broke, and, every
muscle relaxing, he lurched forward.

Alarmed, in a trice the cobra was up again, hood distended to the bursting point, head swinging
so swiftly that the eye could not follow it. In another breath would come the final thrust....

A firearm exploded behind Amber, singeing his cheek with its flame. He fell over sideways,
barely escaping the head of the cobra, which, with its hood blown to tatters, writhed in convulsions,
its malignant tongue straining forth as if in one last attempt to reach his hand.

A second shot followed the first and then a brisk, confused fusillade. Amber heard a man scream
out in mortal agony, and the dull sound of a heavy body falling near him; but, coincident with
the second report, the brazier had been overturned and its light extinguished as if sucked
up into the air.

CHAPTER XIX

RUTTON'S DAUGHTER

In darkness the blacker for the sudden disappearance of the light, somebody stumbled over Amber--stumbled
and swore in good English. The Virginian sat up, crying out as weakly as a child: "Labertouche!"
A voice said: "Thank God!" He felt strong hands lift him to his feet. He clung to him who had
helped him, swaying like a drunkard, wits a-swirl in the brain thus roughly awakened from semi-hypnosis.

"Here," said Labertouche's voice, "take my hand and follow. We're in for it now!"

He caught Amber's hand and dragged him, yielding and unquestioning, rapidly through a chaotic
rush of unseen bodies.

The firing had electrified the tense-strung audience. With a pandemonium of shrieks, oaths,
shouts, orders unheard and commands unheeded, a concerted rush was made from every quarter
to the spot where the doomed man had been kneeling. Men running blundered into running men
and cannoned off at direct angles to their original courses, without realising it. Disorder
reigned rampant, and the cavern rang with a thousand echoes, while the Bell awoke and roared
a raging tocsin, redoubling the din. No man could have said where he stood or whither he ran--save
one, perhaps. That one was at Amber's side and had laid his course beforehand and knew that
both their lives depended upon his sticking to it without deviation. To him a rush of a hundred
feet in a direct line meant salvation, the least deviation from it, death. He plunged through
the scurrying masses without regard for any hurt that might come either to him or to his charge.

A red glare of torches was breaking out over the heads of the mob before they gained their
destination. Amber saw that they were making for a corner formed by the junction of one of
the pedestals with a rocky wall. He was now recovering rapidly and able to appreciate that
they stood a good chance of winning away; for the natives were all converging toward the centre
of the cavern, and apparently none heeded them. Nevertheless Labertouche, releasing him, put
a revolver in his hand.

"Don't hesitate to shoot if any one comes this way!" he said. "I've got to get this door open
and..."

He broke off with an ejaculation of gratitude; for while he had been speaking, his fingers
busily groping in the convolutions of the sculptured pedestal had encountered what he sought,
and now he pulled out an iron bar two feet or so in length and as thick as a woman's wrist.
Inserting this in a socket, as one familiar with the trick, he put his weight upon it; a carved
sandstone slab slid back silently, disclosing a black cavernous opening.

"In with you," panted Labertouche, removing the lever. "Don't delay...."

Amber did not. He took with him a hazy impression of a vast, vaulted hall filled with a ruddy
glare of torchlight, a raving rabble of gorgeously attired natives in its centre. Then the
opening received him and he found himself in a black hole of an underground gallery--a place
that reeked with the dank odours of the tomb.

Labertouche followed and with the aid of a small electric pocket-lamp discovered another socket
for the lever. A moment later the slab moved back into place, and the Englishman dropped the
metal bar. "If there were only some way of locking that opening," he gasped, "we'd be fairly
safe. As it is, we'll have to look nippy. That was a near call--as near a one as ever you'll
know, my boy; and we're not out yet. What are you doing?" he added, as Amber stopped to pick
up the lever.

"It isn't a bad weapon," said the Virginian, "at a pinch. You'll want your gun, and that she-devil,
Naraini, got mine."

"Keep the one I gave you and don't be afraid to use it. I've another and a couple of knives
for good measure. That Mohammedan prince whom I persuaded to change places with me was a walking
arsenal." Labertouche chuckled. "Come along," he said, and drew ahead at a dog-trot.

They sped down a passage which delved at a sharp grade through solid rock. Now and again it
turned and struck away in another direction. Once they descended--or rather fell down--a short,
steep flight of steps. At the bottom Amber stopped.

"Hold on!" he cried.

Labertouche pulled up impatiently. "What's the matter?"

"Sophia--!"

"Trust me, dear boy, and come along."

Persuaded, Amber gave in, blundering on after Labertouche, who loped along easily, with the
confidence of one who threads known ways, the spot-light from his lamp dancing along the floor
several feet before him. Otherwise they moved between walls of Stygian darkness.

It was some time later that Labertouche extinguished his lamp and threw a low word of warning
over his shoulder. Synchronously Amber discerned, far ahead, a faint glow of yellow light.
As they bore down upon it with unmoderated speed, he could see that it emanated from a rough-hewn
doorway, opening off the passage. Before it a man stood guard with a naked sword.

"Johar!" he greeted them in the Mahar form: "O, warrior!"

"Johar!" returned Labertouche, panting heavily. He closed upon the native confidently, but
was brought up short by a peremptory sweep of the sword, coupled with an equally imperative
demand for an explanation of their haste. The Englishman replied with apparent difficulty,
as if half-winded. "It is an order, Johar. The woman is to be brought to the Hall of the Bell."

"You have the word?" The Mahar lowered his sword. "It hath been said to me that--"

Labertouche stumbled over his feet, and caught the speaker for support. The native gurgled
in a sodden fashion, dropped his sword, stared stupidly at Labertouche, and put an uncertain
hand to his throat. Then he lurched heavily and collapsed upon himself.

The secret-agent stepped back, dropping the knife he had used. "Poor devil!" he said in a compassionate
undertone. "That was cold-blooded murder, Mr. Amber."

"Necessary?" gasped Amber, regarding with horror the bloodstained heap of rags and flesh at
his feet.

"Judge for yourself," said Labertouche coolly, stepping over the body. "Here," he added, pausing
by the doorway, "you go first; she knows you."

He pushed Amber on ahead. Stooping, the Virginian entered a small, rude chamber hollowed out
of the rock of Kathiapur. A crude lamp in a bracket furnished all its illumination, filling
it with a reek of hot oil. Amber was vaguely aware of the figures of two women--one standing
in a corner, the other seated dejectedly upon a charpoy, her head against the wall. As he lifted
his head after passing under the low lintel, the woman in the corner fired at him point-blank.

The Virginian saw the jet of flame spurt from her hand and felt the bullet's impact upon the
wall behind his head. He flung himself upon her instantly. There was a moment of furious struggle,
while the cell echoed with the reverberations of the shot and the screaming of the woman on
the charpoy. The pistol exploded again as he grappled with the would-be murderess; the bullet,
passing up his sleeve, creased his left arm as with a white-hot iron, and tore out through
the cloth on his shoulder. He twisted brutally the wrist that held the weapon, and the woman
dropped it with a cry of pain.

"You would!" he cried, and threw her from him, putting a foot upon the pistol.

She reeled back against the wall and crouched there, trembling, her cheeks on fire, her eyes
aflame with rage. "You dog!" she shrilled in Hindi--and spat at him like a maddened cat. Then
he recognised her.

"Naraini!" He stepped back in his surprise, his right hand seeking instinctively the wrist
of his left, which was numb with pain.

His change of position left the pistol unguarded, and the woman swooped down upon it like a
bird of prey; but before she could get her fingers on its grip, Labertouche stepped between
them, fended her off, and quietly possessed himself of the weapon.

"Your pardon, madam," he said gravely.

Naraini retreated, shaking with fury, and Amber employed the respite to recognise Sophia Farrell
in the woman on the charpoy. She was still seated, prevented from rising by bonds about her
wrists and ankles, and though unnaturally pale, her anguish of fear and despair had set its
marks upon her face without one whit detracting from the appeal of her beauty. He went to her
immediately, and as their eyes met, hers flamed with joy, relief and--he dared believe--a stronger
emotion.

"You--you're not hurt, Mr. Amber?"

"Not at all. The bullet went out through my sleeve. And you?" He dropped on his knees, with
his pocket-knife severing the ends of rope that bound her.

"I'm all right." She took his hands, helping herself to rise. "Thank you," she said, her eyes
shining, a flush of colour suffusing her face with glory.

"Did you cut those ropes, Amber?" Labertouche interposed curtly.

"Yes. Why?"

The Englishman explained without turning from his sombre and morose regard of Naraini. "Too
bad--we'll have to tie this woman up, somehow. She's a complication I hadn't foreseen.... Here;
you'd better leave me to attend to her--you and Miss Farrell. Go on down the gallery--to the
left, I'll catch up with you."

The pistol which he still held lent to his demand a sinister significance of which he was,
perhaps, thoughtless. But Sophia Farrell heard, saw, and surmised.

"No!" she cried, going swiftly to the secret-agent. "No!" She put a hand upon his arm, but
he shook it off.

"Did you hear me, Amber?" said Labertouche, still watching the queen.

"What do you mean to do?" insisted Sophia. "You can't--you mustn't--"

"This is no time for half-measures, Miss Farrell," Labertouche told her brusquely. "Our lives
hang in the balance--Mr. Amber's, yours, mine. Please go."

"You promise not to harm her?"

"Amber!" cried the Englishman impatiently. "Will you--"

"Please, Miss Farrell!" begged Amber, trying to take the girl's hand and draw her away.

"I won't!" she declared. "I'll not move a step until he promises. You don't understand. No
matter what the danger she's--"

"She's a fiend incarnate," Labertouche broke in. "Amber, get that girl--"

"She's my sister!" cried Sophia. "Now will you understand?"

"What!" The two men exclaimed as one.

"She's my sister," the girl repeated, holding up her head defiantly, her cheeks burning--"my
sister by adoption. We were brought up together. She was the daughter of an old friend of my
father's--an Indian prince. A few years ago she ran away--"

"Thank God!" said Amber from the bottom of his soul; and, "Ah, you would!" cried Labertouche
tensely, as Naraini seized the opportunity, when his attention was momentarily diverted, to
break for freedom.

Amber saw the flash of a steel blade in the woman's hand as she struck at the secret-agent,
and the latter, stepping back, deflected the blow with a guarding forearm. Then, with the quickness
of a snake, Naraini stooped, glided beneath his arms, and slipped from the cell.

With a smothered oath Labertouche leaped to the doorway, lifting his pistol; but he was no
quicker than Sophia, who caught his arm and held him back. "No," she panted; "not even for
our lives--not at that price!"

He yielded unexpectedly. "Of course you are perfectly right, Miss Farrell," said he, with a
little bow. "I'm sorry that circumstances ... But come! She'll have this hornet's nest about
our ears in a brace of seconds. Hark to that!"

A long, shrill shriek echoed down the gallery. Labertouche shrugged and turned to the left.
"Come along," he said. "Amber, take Miss Farrel's hand and keep close to me." He led the way
from the cell at a brisk pace--one, indeed, that taxed Sophia's powers of endurance to maintain.
Amber aided her as much as he might, but that was little; the walls of the passageway were
too close together to permit him to be by her side much of the time. For the most part he had
to lead the way, himself guided by the swiftly moving patch of light cast by Labertouche's
bull's-eye. But through it all he was buoyed up and exhilarated out of all reason by the consciousness
of the hand that lay trustfully in his own; a hand soft and small and warm and (though he could
not see it) white, all white! More, it was the hand of his wife to be; he felt this now with
an unquestioning assurance. He wondered if she shared the subject of his thoughts ...

The gallery sloped at varying grades, more or less steep--mostly more--and minute by minute
the air became more dank and cold. At an unseen turning, where another passage branched away,
a biting wind swept out of the black nowhere, chilling them to the marrow. Deeper and still
deeper, into the very bowels of the earth, it seemed, the secret-agent led them, finding his
way with an unfaltering confidence that exalted Amber's admiration of him to the pitch of hero-worship.

At length the gallery dipped and ran level, and now, while still cold, the wind that blew in
their faces was cleaner, burdened with less of the clammy effluvium of death and decay; and
then, abruptly, the walls narrowed suddenly, so that Amber was forced to surrender possession
of the girl's hand and to fall behind her. She went forward without question, following the
dancing spotlight.

Amber paused to listen for sounds of pursuit, but hearing nothing save the subdued sigh of
the draught between the straitened walls of rock, followed until the walls fell away and his
hands, outstretched, failed to touch them, and he was aware that the stone beneath his feet
had given way to gravel. He halted, calling guardedly to Labertouche.

The secret-agent's voice came from some distance. "It's all right, my boy. Miss Farrell is
with me. Come along."

There was an elan in his tone that bespoke a spirit of gratulation and relief and led Amber
to suspect that they were very close upon the end of their flight, near to escape from the
subterranean ways of Kathiapur the dead. He proceeded at discretion in the direction of Labertouche's
voice--the light being invisible--and brought up flat against a dead wall. Coincidently he
heard Sophia exclaim with surprise and delight, somewhere off on his left, and, turning, he
saw her head and shoulders move across a patch of starlit sky. In half a dozen strides he overtook
her.

They stood on a low, pebbly ledge, just outside the black maw of the passage--an entrance hidden
in a curtain-like fold in the face of the cliff that towered above them, casting an ink-black
shadow. But beyond it the emblazoned firmament glowed irradiant, and at their feet the encircling
waters ran, a broad ribbon of black silk purling between the cliff and the opposing shores,
where a thicket of tamarisks rose, a black and ragged wall.

Labertouche strode off into the water. "Straight ahead," he announced; "don't worry--'tisn't
more than knee-deep at the worst. I've horses waiting on the other side--"

"Horses!" Amber interrupted. "Great heavens, man, you're--you're omniscient!"

"No--lucky," Labertouche retorted briskly. "Where'd I've been without Ram Nath? He's taking
care of the animals.... Come along. What're you waiting for? Don't you know--" He turned to
see the girl hesitant, though with lifted skirts. "Oh," he said in an accent of understanding,
and came back. "If you'll help me, Amber, I daresay we can get Miss Farrell across without
a wetting."

He offered to clasp hands with the Virginian and so make a seat; but Amber had a happier thought.

"I think I can manage by myself, thank you--if Miss Farrell will trust me."

His eyes met the girl's, and in hers he read trust and faith unending: he was conscious of
a curious fluttering in his bosom.

"Trust you!" she said, with a little, broken laugh, and gave herself freely to his arms.

Labertouche grunted and turned his back, wading out into the stream with a great splashing.

Amber straightened up, holding her very close to him, and that with ease. Had she been thrice
as heavy he could have borne her with as little care as he did his own immeasurably lightened
heart in that hour of fulfilment. And she lay snug and confident, her arms round his neck,
the shadowed loveliness of her face very near to him. The faint and elusive fragrance of her
hair was sweet and heady in the air he breathed; he could read her eyes, and their allure and
surrender was like a draught of wine to him. He felt the strength of ten men invigorate him,
and his soul was sober with a great happiness. But a little while and she would be in safety;
already her salvation seemed assured.... The further bank neared all too quickly. He would
willingly have lingered to prolong the stolen sweetness of that moment, forgetful altogether
of the danger that lay behind them.

Ahead, he saw Labertouche step out upon a shelving shore and, shaking his legs with an effect
irresistibly suggestive of a dog leaving the water, peer inland through the tamarisks. His
low, whistled signal sounded as Amber joined him and put down the girl--reluctantly. Her whispered
thanks were interrupted by an exclamation from Labertouche.

"Hang it all! he can't've mistaken the spot. I told him to wait right here, and now ... We
daren't delay." He cast an apprehensive glance across the stream. "Look lively, please."

He shouldered away through the thicket, and for several moments they struggled on through the
hindering undergrowth, their passage betrayed by much noisy rustling. Then, as they won through
to open ground, Labertouche paused and whistled a second time, staring eagerly from right to left.

"I'm blessed!" he declared, with a vehemence that argued his desire for stronger language.
"This is bad--bad--bad! He never failed me before! I--"

A mocking chuckle seemed to break from the ground at their feet, and in the flicker of an eyelash
a shadow lifted up out of the scrub-encumbered level. Sophia cried aloud with alarm; Labertouche
swore outright, heedless; and Amber put himself before her, drawing his revolver, heartsick
with the conviction that they were trapped, that their labour had gone all for naught, that
all futilely had they schemed and dared....

But while his finger was yet seeking the trigger the first shadow was joined by a score of
fellows--shades that materialised with like swiftness and silence from the surface of the earth--and
before he could level the weapon Labertouche seized his wrist. For an instant he resisted,
raging with disappointment; but the Englishman was cool, strong, determined; inevitably in
the outcome the weapon was pointed to the sky.

"Steady, you ass!" breathed the secret-agent in his ear. "Can't you see--"

And Amber gave over, in amazement unbounded, seeing the starlight glinting down a dozen levelled
rifle-barrels, glowing pale on the spiked, rounded crowns of pith helmets, and striking soft
fire from burnished accoutrements; while a voice, thick with a brogue that was never bred out
of hearing of Bow Bells, was hectoring them to surrender.

"'Ands up, ye bloomin' black beggars! 'Ands up, I s'y!"

"Tommies!" cried Amber; and incontinently he dropped the revolver as though it had turned hot
in his hand.

"Steady, my man!" Labertouche interrupted what threatened to develop into a string of intolerable
abuse. "Hold your tongue! Can't you see we've a lady with us?"

"Ul-lo!" The soldier lowered his rifle and stepped closer, his voice vibrating with astonishment.
"Blimme, 'ere's a go!... beggar of a nigger givin' me wot-for 's if 'e was a gent! 'Oo in 'ell
d'ye think y'are, yer 'ighness?'

"That'll do. Put down those guns, and call your commanding officer. I'll explain to him. Where
is he? What troops are you? When did you arrive?"

Such queries and commands discharged quickly in crisp English from the mouth of one who wore
the color and costume of a Mohammedan of high degree, temporarily dazed his captors. In a body
they pressed round the three, peering curiously into their faces--the two white and the one
dark; and their murmurings rose and swelled discordant. "Blimme if 'e ain't a gent!" "T'other
un is!" "An this un a leddy!"...But to his interrogations Labertouche got no direct reply.
While as for Amber, he could have laughed aloud from a heart that brimmed with thanksgiving
for the honest sound of their rich rough voices; besides which, Sophia stood very close to
him, and her fingers were tight about his....

"What's this?" A sharp voice cut the comments of the Tommies, and they were smitten silent
by it. An officer, with jingling spurs and sword in hand, elbowed through the heart of the
press. "Stop that row instantly. What's this? Who are you, sir?"

"I sent the message from Kathiapur, and I'm uncommonly happy to meet you, whoever you may be,
sir. Tell your men to fall back, please, and I'll introduce myself properly."

Two words secured the secret-agent the privacy he desired; the officer offered him an ungloved
hand as the troopers withdrew out of hearing.

"Happy, indeed!" he said cheerfully. "I'm Rowan, Captain, Fourteenth Pioneers."

"I'm Labertouche, I.S.S. This is Miss Farrell, daughter of Colonel Farrell, and this Mr. Amber,
of New York. We're just escaped from that rock over there and--if you'll pardon--I'd suggest
you set a strong guard over the ford behind those tamarisks."

"One moment, please." The officer strode off to issue instructions in accordance with Labertouche's
advice. "We got here only a quarter of an hour ago," he apologised, swinging back as the men
deployed into the thicket, "and haven't had time to nose out the lay of the land thoroughly."

"I infer you got my man with the horses--native calling himself Ram Nath?"

"He's with the Colonel-commanding now, Mr. Labertouche. As I was saying, we've hardly had time
to do more than throw a line of pickets round the rock. It's been quick work for us--marching
orders at midnight yesterday, down by train to Sar, and forced march across the desert ever
since daybreak."

"I'd hardly hoped the thing could be done so quickly. If I had been able to get the information
an instant earlier, my mind would've been easier, captain, but--Hello!"

From the ford an abrupt clamour of voices interrupted. The officer hooked up his scabbard.
"Sounds as if my men had gathered in somebody else," he said hastily. "If you'll excuse me,
I'll have a look." He trotted off into the shade of the tamarisks.

As he disappeared the disturbance abated somewhat. "False alarm," Amber guessed.

"I fancy not," said Labertouche. "If I'm not mistaken our friend Naraini left for the special
purpose of raising the hue and cry. This should be the vanguard of the pursuit."

Amber looked upward. Overhead the soulless city slumbered in a stillness apparently unbroken,
yet he who saw its profile rugged against the stars, could fancy what consternation was then,
or presently would be, running riot through its haunted ways.

"How many of 'em are there, do you reckon?" he asked.

"Three or four hundred," replied the secret-agent absently; "the pick and flower of Indian
unrest. My word, but this will kick up a row! Think of it, man! three hundred and fifty-odd
lords and princes bagged all at once in the act of plotting the Second Mutiny! What a change
it will work on the political face of the land! ... And the best of it is, they simply can't
get away."

"Is this the only exit, then--the way we escaped?"

"Not by three--all on the other side of the rocky where they rode up and left their horses.
And that's where the most of 'em will come out, by twos and threes, like the animals out of
the Ark, you know. What a catch!"

"And we've you to thank!"

"I? Oh, dear boy, thank the Tommies!"

"But what would we have done, or the Tommies either, without you?"

"What indeed!" Sophia echoed warmly. "I've had no chance, as yet--"

"Not another word, my dear Miss Farrell!" Labertouche protested, acutely uncomfortable. "To've
been able to help you out of the scrape is enough."

"But I must--" she began, and stopped with a little cry as a shot rang out from the heart of
the thicket, to be followed by another and then by a shriek of agony and a great confusion
of sounds--shouts and oaths and noisy crashings in the tamarisks as of many men blundering
hither and yon.

Silenced, with a slight shudder of apprehension, the girl drew to Amber's side, as if instinctively.
He took her hand and drew it through his arm.

"Run to earth at last!" cried Labertouche. "I wonder--"

"If my hope's good for anything," Amber laughed, less because he felt like laughing than for
the purpose of reassuring Sophia, "this will be the gentleman who trained the Hooded Death
to dance, or else he who--"

He was thinking with vindictive relish of what fate he would mete out to the manipulator of
the Bell, were it left to him to pass sentence. But he broke off as a body of soldiery burst
from the tamarisks, and, headed by young Rowan, hurried toward the three, bringing with them
a silent and unresisting prisoner.

"I say," the officer called excitedly in advance, "here's something uncommon' rum. It's a woman,
you know."

"Aha!" said Labertouche, and "Ah!" said Amber, "with a click of his teeth, while the woman
on his arm clung to him the closer.

"I thought we'd better bring her to you, for she said ..." Rowan paused, embarrassed, and took
a fresh start. "My men got to the ford just as she was coming ashore with three other men,
and the whole pack took to cover on this side. Two of the men are still missing, but we routed
out the other just now with this--ah--lady. He showed fight and got bayonetted. But the woman--excuse
me, Mr. Amber--she protests--by George, it's too ridiculous!--"

"I have claimed naught that is not true!" an unforgettably sweet voice interrupted from the
centre of the group. It opened out, disclosing Naraini between two guards, in that moment of
passion and fear perhaps more incomparably beautiful than any woman they had ever looked upon,
save her who held to Amber's arm, a-quiver with womanly sympathy and compassion.

During her flight and her resistance Naraini's veil had been rent away; in the clear starlight
her countenance, framed in hair of lustrous jet and working with uncontrollable rage and despair,
shone like that of some strange tempestuous Aphrodite fashioned of palest gold. Beneath its
folds of tightly drawn, bespangled gauze her bosom swelled and fell convulsively, and on her
perfect arms, more softly beautiful than any Phidias ever dreamed to chisel, the golden bracelets
and bangles clashed and tinkled as she writhed and fought to free herself of the defiling hands.
Half-mad with disappointment, she raged amid the scattered shreds of her dream of power like
a woman hopelessly deranged.

"Aye, I have claimed!" she stormed. "I have claimed justice and the rights of wifehood, the
protection of him whose wife I am; or, if he deny me, I claim that he must suffer with me--he
who hath played the traitor's part to-night, betraying his Cause and his wife alike to their
downfall!... I claim," she insisted, lifting, in spite of the soldiers' restraining hands,
one small quivering arm to single Amber out and point him to scorn, "that this is the man who,
wedded to me by solemn right and the custom of the land, hath deserted and abandoned me, hath
denied me even as he denies his birthright, when it doth please him, and forswears the faith
of his fathers! I claim to be Naraini, Queen, wife to Har Dyal Rutton, rightful ruler of Khandawar--coward,
traitor, renegade--who stands there!"

"For the love of Heaven, Rowan, shut her up!" cried Labertouche. "It's all a pack of lies;
the woman's raving. Rutton's dead, in the first place; in the second, he's her father. She
can't be his wife very well, whether he's alive or dead. It's simply a dodge of hers to gain
time. Shut her up and take her away--she's as dangerous as a wildcat!"

"Nay, I will not be gagged nor taken hence till I have said my say!" With a sudden furious
wrench Naraini wrested her arms from the grasp of the guards and sprang away, eluding with
lithe and snake-like movements their attempts to recapture her. "Not," she cried, "until I
have wrought my will upon the two of them. Thou hast stood in my light too long, O my sister!"

A hand blazing with jewels tore at the covering of her bosom and suddenly came away clutching
a dagger, thin, long, and keen; and snarling she sprang toward the girl, to whose influence,
however unwitting, she rightly ascribed the downfall of her scheme of empire. Rowan and Labertouche
leaped forward and fell short, so lightning swift she moved; only Amber stood between her and
her vengeance. Choking with horror, he put the girl behind him with a resistless hand, and
took Naraini to his arms.

"Ah, hast thou changed thy mind, Beloved?" The woman caught him fiercely to her with an arm
about his waist, and her voice rose shrill with mocking triumph, "Are my lips become so sweet
to thee again? Then see how I kiss, thou fool!"

She thrust with wicked cunning, twice and again, before the men tore her away and disarmed
her. For an instant wrestling like a demon with them, still animated by her murderous frenzy,
still wishful to fill her cup of vengeance to the brim with the blood of the girl, she of a
sudden ceased to resist and fell passive in their hands, a dying flicker of satisfaction in
the eyes that watched the culmination of her crime....

To Amber it was as if his body had been penetrated thrice by a needle of fire. The anguish
of it was exquisite, stupefying. He was aware of a darkening, reeling world, wherein men's
faces swam like moons, pallid, staring, and of a mighty and invincible lethargy that pounced
upon him, body, brain and soul, like a black panther springing from the ambush of the night.
Yet there were still words that must be spoken, lest they live in his subconsciousness to torment
him through all the long, black night that was to receive him. He tried to steady himself,
and lifted an arm that vibrated like the sprung limb of a sapling, signing to the secret-agent.

"Labertouche," he said thickly ... "Sophia ... out of India ... at once ... life ..."

The girl's arms received him as he fell.

CHAPTER XX

A LATER DAY

A man awoke from a long dream of night and fear, of passion, pain, and death, and opened eyes
whose vision seemed curiously clear, to realise a new world, very unlike that in which the
incoherent action of his dream had moved--a world of light and lively air, as sweet and wholesome
as glistening white paint, sunshine, and an abundance of pure, cool air could render it.

Because he had known these things in a former existence, he understood that he lay in the lower
berth of a first-cabin stateroom, aboard an ocean steamship; a spacious, bright box of a room,
through whose open ports swayed brilliant shafts of temperate sunlight, together with great
gusts of the salt sweet breath of the open sea. Through them, too, he could see patches of
unclouded blue, athwart which now and again gulls would sweep on flashing, motionless pinions.

The man lay still and at peace, watching, wondering idly, soothed by the sense of being swung
through space, only vaguely conscious of the plunging pulsations of the ship's engines, hammering
away indomitably far in the hold beneath him. His thoughts busied themselves lightly with a
number of important questions, to whose answers the man realised that he was singularly indifferent.
Who was he? What had happened to bring him back to life (for he was sure that he had died,
a long time ago)? How had he come to that stateroom? What could the name of the vessel be?
Where ... Deep thoughts were these and long; the man drowsed over them, but presently was aroused
by the sensation of being no longer alone, of being watched.

His eyeballs seemed to move reluctantly in their sockets, and his head felt very light and
empty, although so heavy that he could not lift it from the pillow. But he managed to shift
his gaze from the window until it rested upon a man's face--a gaunt, impassive brown face illuminated
by steady and thoughtful eyes, filled with that mystic, unshakable spirit of fatalism that
is the real Genius of the eastern peoples. The head itself stood out with almost startling
distinctness against the background of pure white. It was swathed with an immaculate white
turban. The thin, stringy brown neck ran into a loose surtout of snowy white.

The sick man felt that he recognised this countenance--had known it, rather, in some vague,
half-remembered life before his latest death. The name...? He felt his lips move and that they
were thin and glazed. Moistening them with his tongue he made another attempt to articulate.
A thin whisper passed them in two breaths: "Ram ... Nath ..."

Hearing this, the dark man started out of his abstraction, cast a swift, pitiful glance at
the sick man's face, and came to hold a tumbler to his lips. The liquid, colourless, acrid,
and pungent, slipped into his mouth, and he had to swallow whether he would or no. When the
final drop disappeared, Ram Nath put down the glass, smiled, laid a finger on his lips, and
went on tiptoe from the stateroom.

After awhile the man without an identity fell asleep, calmly, restfully, in absolute peace.
When again he awakened it was with the knowledge that he was David Amber, and that a woman
sat beside him.

Her face was turned from him, and her brown eyes, clouded with dreams, were staring steadfastly
out through the open port; the flowing banners of sunshine now and again touched her hair with
quick fire--her wonderfully spun hair, itself scarcely less radiant than the light that illumined
it. Against the blue-white background her gracious profile showed womanly and sweet. There
was rich colour in cheeks fresh from the caress of the sea wind. She smiled in her musing,
scarlet lips apart.

"Sophia..."

His voice sounded in his own hearing very thin and brittle. The girl turned her gaze upon him
swiftly, the soft smile deepening, the dream-light in her eyes burning brighter and more steady.
She bent forward, placing over his wasted hand a hand firm and warm, strong yet gentle, its
whiteness enhanced by the suggested tracery of blue veins beneath the silken skin, and by the
rosy tips of her slender, subtle fingers.

"David!" she said.

He sighed and remembered. His brows knitted, then smoothed themselves out; for with memory
came the realisation that, since he was there and she by his side, God was surely in his Heaven,
all well with the world!

"How long...Sophia?"

"Five days, David."

"Where...?"

"At sea, David, on a Messageries boat for Marseilles. Dear ..."

He closed his eyes in beatific content: "David ... Dear ...!"

"Can you listen?"

"Yes ... sweetheart."

Her voice faltered; she flushed adorably. "You mustn't talk. But I'll tell you.... They refused
to let us go back to Kuttarpur; an escort took us across the desert to Nok, you in a litter,
I on horseback. There we took train to Haidarabad and Karachi. Ram Nath came with us, as bearer,
it being necessary that he too should leave India. My father and your man Doggott joined us
at Karachi, where this steamer touched the second day."

"You understand, now--?"

"Everything, dearest."

"Labertouche--?"

"He told me nothing. I haven't seen him since that morning, when, just after you were wounded,
we started for Nok. He posted off to Kuttarpur to find my father.... No; it was you who told
me--everything--in your delirium."

"And ... you forgive--?"

"Forgive!"

He smiled faintly. "That photograph?"

"I had it ready to return to you that morning, David."

"Knowing what it meant to me?"

"Knowing what it meant to me--what it meant to both of us, David."

"So you weren't offended, that night?"

"I loved you even then, David. I think I must have loved you from that first day at Nokomis.
Do you remember...?"

His eyes widened, perplexed, staring into her grave, dear eyes. "Then why did you pretend--?"

With the low, caressing laugh of a happy child, the girl knelt by the side of his berth, and
laid her cheek against his own. "Oh, David, my David! When do you expect to understand the
heart of a woman, dear heart of mine?"

CHAPTER XXI

THE FINAL INCARNATION

About five o'clock of an evening in April the Cunarder Caronia, four hours out from Queenstown
and buckling down to a night's hard work against the northwesterly gale, shipped a sea. It
was not much of a sea--merely a playful slap of a wave that broke against the staunch black
side and glanced upward in a shower of spray, spattering liberally a solitary passenger who
had been showing enough interest in the weather to remain on deck until that particular moment.
Apparently undisconcerted by the misadventure, he shook himself and laughed a sober, contented
laugh, found a handkerchief and mopped his face with it, then, with a final approving survey
of the lowering and belligerent canopy of wind-cloud that overhung the tortured ocean, permitted
himself to be blown aft to the door of the first-cabin smoking-room. Opening this by main strength,
he entered. The gale saved him the bother of closing it.

Removing his rain-coat and cap and depositing them on a convenient chair, he glanced round
the room and discovered that he shared it with a single passenger, who was placidly exhausting
the virtues of an excellent cigarette. Upon this gentleman the newcomer bent a regard steadfast
and questioning, but after returning it casually the smoker paid him no further attention.
Dissatisfied, the other moved toward him, and the deck slanted suddenly and obligingly the
better to accelerate his progress, so that he brought up with a lurch in the seat next the
smoker. The latter raised the eyebrows of surprise and hoped that the gentleman had not hurt
himself.

"I didn't, thank you, Mr. David Amber."

Mr. David Amber looked the gentleman over with heightened interest. He saw a man of medium
height, with a sturdy figure that bore without apparent fatigue the years that go with slightly
greyish hair. He was quietly dressed and had intelligent eyes, but was altogether unimpressive
of manner, save for a certain vague air of reserve that assorted quaintly with his present
attitude.

"You've the advantage of me, sir," Amber summed up the result of his scrutiny.

"It's not the first time," asserted the other, with an argumentative shake of his head. "No-o?"
Light leaped in Amber's eyes. "Labertouche!"

"Surprised you, eh?" The Englishman grinned with pleasure, pumping Amber's arm cordially. "I
don't mind owning that I meant to."

"Well, considering that this is positively your first appearance as yourself on the stage of
my life, you don't deserve any credit for being able to deceive me. When one gets accustomed
to remembering you only as a native--generally as a babu in dirty pink satin--...Do you know,
I made all sorts of enquiries after you, but they told me, in response to my wires to Calcutta,
that you'd dropped out of the world entirely. I had begun to fear that those damned natives
must have got you, after all, and that I'd never see you again."

"I'd almost given up hope of ever seeing myself again," said Labertouche drily.

"But why didn't you--?"

"Business, dear boy, business.... I was needed for several days in the neighbourhood of Kathiapur."

"It seems as though I'd waited several years for news of Kathiapur. The papers--"

"There are a good many things that happen in India that fail to get into the newspapers, Amber.
It wasn't thought necessary to advise the world, including Russia, that half the native potentates
in Hindustan had been caught in the act of letting the Second Mutiny loose upon India." A network
of fine wrinkles appeared about his eyes as he smiled enjoyment of what he seemed to consider
a memorable joke.

"Go on," pleaded Amber.

"Kathiapur was a sort of mousetrap; the brutes came out by twos and three, just as I said they
would, for the better part of three days. It was either surrender or starve with them, and
after five-sixths of them had elected not to starve we turned a couple of companies of Tommies
into the place, and I don't believe they left unturned a stone big enough to hide a rabbit.
One by one they routed 'em out and booted 'em down to us. Meanwhile we had rushed enough troops
to Kuttarpur to keep their tails quiet."

"And Salig Singh--and Naraini?"

"Salig Singh, it turned out, was the chap that got bayoneted in the tamarisks. Naraini managed
somehow to steal away the next night, under the noses of any number of sentries; beauty such
as hers would bribe her way out of hell, I think. What became of her I don't know, but I can
prophesy that she won't live long. She was rather too advanced in her views, for India--some
centuries ahead of her race. She and Salig Singh had it all planned, you know; his was the
master-mind, hers the motive-power. They were to crown you, instead of Salig's son, the next
day--in the name of Har Dyal Rutton; and then you were to die suddenly by virtue of hemp poison
or some other contagious disease, and Salig was to step into your shoes as Emperor of Hindustan,
with Naraini as his Empress.... She should have stayed home and been a suffragette."

"Better for her," said Amber. "Of course I've found out about her, from Farrell. It seems that
she was brought up in England, with Sophia, and always given to believe she was his own daughter,
but she was a wild thing and hard to handle. One day she found out about her parentage--how,
it's not known, but Farrell suspects that the men who were hounding Rutton got into communication
with her. At all events, she brooded over the thing, and when, five years or so ago, Mrs. Farrell
died and the Colonel sent for Sophia to join him in India, Naraini--well, she rebelled. He
refused to let her leave England, and she finally took the bit in her teeth and ran away--vanished
and was never heard of again until Sophia recognised her in Kathiapur."

"I myself can fill in the gap," Labertouche volunteered. "She joined some of Salig's underlings
in Paris and went thence direct to Khandawar, assuming the name of one of the old queens who
had elected opportunely to die.... Queer case--singular instance of reversion to type."

"A mighty distressing one to the old colonel; you know Rutton kept religiously to his promise
not to see the child after he'd given her into Farrell's care. Farrell lost all track of him
and was unable to communicate with him, of course, when Naraini chose to strike out for herself....
One thing has always puzzled me; the girl called me by her father's name, pretending to recognise
me as her husband; you can't reconcile such conduct."

"You can, easily enough--beg pardon, my dear fellow. Neither she nor Salig Singh was for an
instant deceived. But Salig had to deliver up a Har Dyal Rutton to the Council, so Naraini
was set to seduce you. Their plans only required that you should be madly infatuated with her
for a couple of days; after that ..." Labertouche turned down his thumb significantly. "I fancy
there must have been a family secret or tradition, handed down from father to son in the Rutton
line, that some day one of the family would be called upon to raise the standard of the Second
Mutiny. That will explain why Har Dyal Rutton, a gentleman of parts and cultivation, dared
not live in India, and why--because he was sworn to keep the secret--he laid stress on the
condition that you were not to mention his name."

"Still, he gave me permission to talk to Dhola Baksh."

"True; but it seems that Dhola Baksh had been his confidential body-servant in Kuttarpur, during
his too-brief reign. Rutton thought he would be able to help you, and knew that he would be
loyal to his master's memory."

"Finally, what about that photograph?"

"You've Salig Singh to thank for its return, I fancy. I had nothing to do with it. But they
were bent on luring you to Naraini's bower, and they figured that after receiving it you'd
go anywhere to meet the man who returned it. By the way, where's Ram Nath?"

"He's staying in England as body-servant to Colonel Farrell."

"He's well off, so; his sphere of usefulness in India was at an end. So, in fact, was mine.
That's why I'm here--on indefinite leave of absence. One or two things grew out of the affair
of the Gateway to make me a person of interest to the natives, and when that happens in India
it's just as well for the interesting person to pack up and get thence with all possible expedition.
It's too bad; I was really doing some good work there. Well...! When the East gets into a fellow's
blood, he's a hopeless, incurable case; I shall go back, I presume, some day. If the big trouble
comes in my lifetime--and I think it will; come it will unquestionably, soon or late--I shan't
be able to keep away, you know." He glanced at his watch and rose. "Time to dress for dinner,"
said he; and as they were moving to the door, he added: "What ever became of that emerald ring,
Amber?"

"The Eye?" Amber laughed. "Well--it was silly enough; but women are superstitious, you know--Sophia
dropped it overboard one day as we were coming through the Mediterranean. She said she was
afraid of it ... and I don't know but I sympathise with her."

"I'm certain I do. And yet, in your case, it was the means of introducing you, wasn't it?...
But there! It's been on the tip of my tongue a dozen times to ask, but other things got in
the way.... How is Mrs. Amber?"

"You shall see for yourself," said Amber, "when we meet for dinner."