'I must see Julia once again,' said Frank to himself, when informed of her departure;--'I must
see and converse with her again, for I am anxious to see if she has really reformed, since
her marriage with this Mr. Hedge, whom I have heard spoken of as a very respectable old man.
Of course, he can know nothing of her former character; and if I find her disposed to be faithful
to her present husband, Heaven forbid that I should ruin her by exposure! But I must so disguise
myself that she shall not recognise me; this I can easily do, for I am well acquainted with
the art of disguise. I shall have no difficulty in meeting her on some of the fashionable promenades
of the city, then my ingenuity will aid me in forming her acquaintance. My plan shall be put
into immediate execution.'

Our hero felt considerable uneasiness in the knowledge that the Dead Man was then in the city;
and when he reflected that the Doctor had joined that arch miscreant, he knew not what infernal
plot might be concocted against his liberty or life. He puzzled his brain in vain to account
for the Doctor's singular conduct in deserting him for the friendship of a villain; and he
was forced to arrive at the unwelcome conclusion, that the Doctor was a man whose natural depravity
led him to prefer the companionship of crime to the society of honesty and honor.

Sydney never ventured abroad without being thoroughly armed; and he was determined, if attacked
by his enemies, to sell his life as dearly as possible.

He had called once upon Miss Sophia Franklin, since the night he had rescued her from the designs
of the libertine Radcliff; Josephine and her mother plainly evinced by their looks that they
did not relish his visit; but the fair Sophia received him with every demonstration of gratitude
and pleasure. She could not deny to herself that she felt a deep and growing interest in the
handsome young stranger, who had so gallantly defended her honor: while on his part, he sympathized
with her unfortunate situation, on account of her unprincipled relatives, and admired her for
her beauty and goodness. He sighed as he thought that his abandoned wife was a barrier to any
hopes which he might entertain in reference to Sophia; for he felt that he could joyfully make
the young lady his bride, and thus preserve her from her mother and sister, were there no obstacle
in the way. When he contrasted her purity and virtue with the vices of Julia, he cursed his
destiny that had placed so great a prize beyond his grasp.

Sophia, as yet, knew nothing of Frank's history, and was of course ignorant that he had a wife.
Sweet hopes swelled the maiden's bosom, when the thought arose in her pure heart that she might
be beloved by one whom she knew was worthy of her tenderest regard.

It was with a high degree of satisfaction that Julia now found herself, by the liberality of
Mr. Hedge, mistress of a splendid establishment.--Her dresses, her jewelry, her furniture were
of the most magnificent kind; her husband placed no restraint upon her whatever, he slept in
a separate chamber, and never annoyed her with his impotent embraces; each morning he was accustomed
to meet her in the breakfast parlor, and partake with her the only meal they took together
during the day; after the repast, he would usually present her with money sufficient to do
her fashionable 'shopping;' then he would kiss her rosy cheek, bid her adieu, and leave her
to pass the day as her fancy or caprice might dictate.

