ANIMAL AUTOBIOGRAPHIES                         |
  |                                                 |
  |  THE DOG                                        |
  |                                                 |
  |  WITH 12 FULL-PAGE ILLUSTRATIONS IN             |
  |  COLOUR BY J. WILLIAMSON                        |
  |                                                 |
  |  PRICE =6s.=                                    |
  |                                                 |
  |  'A true life history, written "out of the      |
  |  fulness of first-hand knowledge" by an author  |
  |  who is thoroughly acquainted with all the      |
  |  ways of "the friend of man."'--Glasgow        |
  |  Herald.                                       |
  |                                                 |
  |  'The story is admirably told in clear and      |
  |  fascinating language.'--Freeman's Journal.

I cannot pretend to write adequately as her substitute, but I could not resist the appeal made
to me by the author, in the name and for the sake of her dear friend and mine, to write a few
words of introduction.

I am in no way responsible either for the plan or for any portion of this work, but I can commend
it as a book, written in a simple and pleasant style, calculated to awaken the interest of
intelligent children, and to enable parents otherwise ignorant or astronomy to answer many
of those puzzling questions which such children often put.

  DAVID GILL.

AUTHOR'S NOTE

This little work is the outcome of many suggestions on the part of friends who were anxious
to teach their small children something of the marvels of the heavens, but found it exceedingly
difficult to get hold of a book wherein the intense fascination of the subject was not lost
in conventional phraseology--a book in which the stupendous facts were stated in language simple
enough to be read aloud to a child without paraphrase.

Whatever merit there may be in the present work is due entirely to my friend Agnes Clerke,
the well-known writer on astronomy; the faults are all my own. She gave me the impetus to begin
by her warm encouragement, and she helped me to continue by hearing every chapter read as it
was written, and by discussing its successor and making suggestions for it. Thus she heard
the whole book in MS. A week after the last chapter had been read to her I started on a journey
lasting many months, and while I was in the Far East the news reached me of her death, by which
the world is the poorer. For her sake, as he has stated, her friend Sir David Gill, K.C.B.,
kindly undertook to supply the missing preface.

  G. E. MITTON.

CONTENTS

  CHAPTER I                                                         PAGE

  THE EARTH                                                            1

  CHAPTER II

  HANGING IN SPACE                                                    13

  CHAPTER III

  THE SHINING MOON                                                    21

  CHAPTER IV

  THE EARTH'S BROTHERS AND SISTER                                     32

  CHAPTER V

  FOUR SMALL WORLDS                                                   48

  CHAPTER VI

  FOUR LARGE WORLDS                                                   67

  CHAPTER VII

  THE SUN                                                             89

  CHAPTER VIII

  SHINING VISITORS                                                   103

  CHAPTER IX

  SHOOTING STARS AND FIERY BALLS                                     120

  CHAPTER X

  THE GLITTERING HEAVENS                                             135

  CHAPTER XI

  THE CONSTELLATIONS                                                 148

  CHAPTER XII

  WHAT THE STARS ARE MADE OF                                         159

  CHAPTER XIII

  RESTLESS STARS                                                     170

  CHAPTER XIV

  THE COLOURS OF THE STARS                                           176

  CHAPTER XV

  TEMPORARY AND VARIABLE STARS                                       188

  CHAPTER XVI

  STAR CLUSTERS AND NEBULÆ                                           197

ILLUSTRATIONS

PRINTED IN COLOUR

  THE MOON-CHILD MUST KEEP ON  RUNNING ROUND HER           Frontispiece

                                                             FACING PAGE

  THE EARTH AND MOON HANGING IN SPACE                                 16

  THE ENGLISH SUMMER AND WINTER                                       40

  JUPITER AND ONE OF HIS MOONS                                        70

  THE PLANET SATURN AND TWO OF HIS MOONS                              78

  FLAMES FROM THE SUN                                                100

  THE COMET IN THE BAYEUX TAPESTRY                                   104

  A STICK THRUST INTO THE WATER APPEARS CROOKED                      114

  CONSTELLATIONS NEAR THE POLE STAR                                  150

  ORION AND HIS NEIGHBOURS                                           154

  THE SPECTRUM OF THE SUN AND SIRIUS                                 168

ILLUSTRATIONS

IN BLACK AND WHITE

                                                                    PAGE

  THE MOON                                                   facing 24

  AN ECLIPSE OF THE MOON                                              28

  AN ECLIPSE OF THE SUN                                               29

  THE MOON RAISING THE TIDES                                          30

  COMPARATIVE SIZES OF THE PLANETS                                    35

  DIFFERENT PHASES OF VENUS                                           51

  ORBITS OF MARS, THE EARTH, VENUS, AND MERCURY                       55

  MAP OF MARS                                                facing 56

  ORBITS OF THE EARTH AND MARS                                        63

  JUPITER AND HIS PRINCIPAL MOONS                                     72

  SUN-SPOTS                                                  facing 98

  A GREAT COMET                                                 "    118

  THE GREAT NEBULA IN ANDROMEDA                                 "    202

THE CHILDREN'S BOOK OF STARS

CHAPTER I

THE EARTH

It is a curious fact that when we are used to things, we often do not notice them, and things
which we do every day cease to attract our attention. We find an instance of this in the curious
change that comes over objects the further they are removed from us. They grow smaller and
smaller, so that at a distance a grown-up person looks no larger than a doll; and a short stick
planted in the ground only a few feet away appears as long as a much longer one at ten times
the distance. This process is going on all round us every minute: houses, trees, buildings,
animals, all seem larger or smaller in proportion to their distance from us. Sometimes I have
seen a row of raindrops hanging on a bar by the window. When the sun catches one of them, it
shines so brilliantly that it is as dazzling as a star; but my sense tells me it is a raindrop,
and not a star at all. It is only because it is so near it seems as bright and important as
a mighty star very, very far away.

We are so much accustomed to this fact that we get into a habit of judging the distance of
things by their size. If we see two lights shining on a dark night, and one is much larger
than the other, we think that the bright one must be nearer to us; yet it need not necessarily
be so, for the two lights might possibly be at the same distance from us, and one be large
and the other small. There is no way in which we can tell the truth by just looking at them.
Now, if we go out on any fine moonlight night and look up at the sky, we shall see one object
there apparently much larger than any other, and that is the moon, so the question that occurs
to us at once is, Is the moon really very much larger than any of the stars, or does it only
seem so because it is very much nearer to us? As a matter of fact, the moon is one of the smallest
objects in view, only, as it is our nearest neighbour, it appears very conspicuous. Having
learned this, we shall probably look about to see what else there is to attract attention,
and we may notice one star shining very brilliantly, almost like a little lamp, rather low
down in the sky, in that part of it where the sun has lately set. It is so beautifully bright
that it makes all the others look insignificant in comparison, yet it is not really large compared
with the others, only, as it comes nearer to us than anything else in the sky except the moon,
it looks larger than it has any right to do in comparison with the others.

After this we might jump to the conclusion that all the bright large stars are really small
and near to us, and all the faintly shining ones large and far away. But that would not be
true at all, for some bright ones are very far away and some faint ones comparatively near,
so that all we can do is to learn about them from the people who have studied them and found
out about them, and then we shall know of our own knowledge which of them seem bright only
because they are nearer than the others, and which are really very, very brilliant, and so
still shine brightly, though set in space at an almost infinite distance from us.

The sun, as we all know, appears to cross the sky every day; he gets up in the east and drops
down in the west, and the moon does the same, only the moon is unlike the sun in this, that
it changes its shape continually. We see a crescent moon growing every night larger and larger,
until it becomes full and fat and round, and then it grows thinner and thinner, until it dies
away; and after a little while it begins again, and goes through all the same changes once
more. I will tell you why this is so further on, when we have a chapter all about the moon.

If you watch the stars quietly for at least five minutes, you will see that they too are moving
steadily on in the same way as the sun and moon. Watch one bright star coming out from behind
a chimney-pot, and after about five minutes you will see that it has changed its place. Yet
this is not true of all, for if we watch carefully we shall find that some, fairly high up
in the sky, do not appear to move at all. The few which are moving so slowly that they seem
to us to stand still are at a part of the sky close to the Pole Star, so called because it
is always above the North Pole of the earth. I will explain to you how to find it in the sky
for yourselves later on, but now you can ask anyone to point it out. Watch it. It appears to
be fixed in one place, while the other stars are swinging round it in circles. In fact, it
is as if we on the earth were inside a great hollow globe or ball, which continually turned
round, with the Pole Star near the top of the globe; and you know that if you put your finger
on the spot at the top of a spinning globe or ball, you can hold it there while all the rest
of the ball runs round. Now, if you had to explain things to yourself, you would naturally
think: 'Here is the great solid earth standing still, and the sun and moon go round it; the
stars are all turning round it too, just as if they were fixed on to the inside of a hollow
globe; we on the earth are in the middle looking up at them; and this great globe is slowly
wheeling round us night by night.'

In the childhood of the world men believed that this was really true--that the earth was the
centre of the universe, that the sun and moon and all the hosts of heaven were there solely
to light and benefit us; but as the world grew wiser the wonders of creation were fathomed
little by little. Some men devoted their whole lives to watching the heavens, and the real
state of things was gradually revealed to them. The first great discovery was that of the daily
movement of the earth, its rotation on its own axis, which makes it appear as if all these
shining things went round it. It is indeed a very difficult matter to judge which of two objects
is moving unless we can compare them both with something outside. You must have noticed this
when you are sitting in a train at a station, and there is another train on the other side
of yours. For if one of the trains moves gently, either yours or the other, you cannot tell
which one it is unless you look at the station platform; and if your position remains the same
in regard to that, you know that your train is still standing, while the other one beside it
has begun to move. And I am quite sure that there is no one of us who has not, at one time
or another, stood on a bridge and watched the water running away underneath until we felt quite
dizzy, and it seemed as if the water were standing still and the bridge, with ourselves on
it, was flying swiftly away backwards. It is only when we turn to the banks and find them standing
still, that we realize the bridge is not moving, and that it is the running water that makes
it seem to do so. These everyday instances show us how difficult it is to judge whether we
are moving or an outside object unless we have something else to compare with it. And the marvellous
truth is that, instead of the sun and moon and stars rolling round the earth, it is the earth
that is spinning round day by day, while the sun and the stars are comparatively still; and,
though the moon does move, yet when we see her get up in the east and go down in the west that
is due to our own movement and not to hers.

The earth turns completely round once in a day and night. If you take an orange and stick a
knitting-needle through it, and hold it so that the needle is not quite straight up but a little
slanting, and then twirl it round, you will get quite a good idea of the earth, though of course
there is no great pole like a gigantic needle stuck through it, that is only to make it easy
for you to hold it by. In spinning the orange you are turning it as the earth turns day by
day, or, as astronomers express it, as it rotates on its axis.

There is a story of a cruel Eastern King who told a prisoner that he must die if he did not
answer three questions correctly, and the questions were very difficult; this is one of them:

'How long would it take a man to go round the earth if he never stopped to eat or drink on
the way?'

And the prisoner answered promptly: 'If he rose with the sun and kept pace with it all day,
and never stopped for a moment to eat or drink, he would take just twenty-four hours, Your
Royal Highness.' For in those days it was supposed that the sun went round the earth.

Everyone is so remarkably clever nowadays that I am sure there will be someone clever enough
to object that, if what I have said is true, there would be a great draught, for the air would
be rushing past us. But, as a matter of fact, the air goes with us too. If you are inside a
railway carriage with the windows shut you do not feel the rush of air, because the air in
the carriage travels with you; and it is the same thing on the earth. The air which surrounds
the earth clings to it and goes round with it, so there is no continuous breeze from this cause.

But the spinning round on its own axis is not the earth's only movement, for all the time it
is also moving on round the sun, and once in a whole year it completes its journey and comes
back to the place from whence it started. Thus the turning round like a top or rotating on
its axis makes the day and night, and the going in a great ring or revolving round the sun
makes the years.

Our time is divided into other sections besides days and years. We have, for instance, weeks
and months. The weeks have nothing to do with the earth's movements; they are only made by
man to break up the months; but the months are really decided by something over which we have
no control. They are due to the moon, and, as I have said already, the moon must have a chapter
to herself, so we won't say any more about the months here.

If any friend of ours goes to India or New Zealand or America, we look upon him as a great
traveller; yet every baby who has lived one year on the earth has travelled millions of miles
without the slightest effort. Every day of our lives we are all flung through space without
knowing it or thinking of it. It is as if we were all shut up in a comfortable travelling car,
and were provided with so many books and pictures and companions that we never cared to look
out of the windows, so that hour by hour as we were carried along over miles of space we never
gave them a thought. Even the most wonderful car ever made by man rumbles and creaks and shakes,
so that we cannot help knowing it is moving; but this beautiful travelling carriage of ours
called the earth makes never a creak or groan as she spins in her age-long journey. It is always
astonishing to me that so few people care to look out of the window as we fly along; most of
them are far too much absorbed in their little petty daily concerns ever to lift their eyes
from them. It is true that sometimes the blinds are down, for the sky is thickly covered with
clouds, and we cannot see anything even if we want to. It is true also that we cannot see much
of the scenery in the daytime, for the sun shining on the air makes a veil of blue glory, which
hides the stars; but on clear nights we can see on every side numbers of stars quite as interesting
and beautiful as any landscape; and yet millions of people never look up, never give a thought
to the wonderful scenery through which their car is rushing.

By reason of the onward rush of the earth in space we are carried over a distance of at least
eighteen miles every second. Think of it: as we draw a breath we are eighteen miles away in
space from the point we were at before, and this goes on unceasingly day and night. These astonishing
facts make us feel how small and feeble we are, but we can take comfort in the thought that
though our bodies are insignificant, the brain of man, which has discovered these startling
facts, must in itself be regarded as one of the most marvellous of all the mysteries amid which
we live.

Well, we have arrived at some idea of our earth's position; we know that the earth is turning
round day by day, and progressing round the sun year by year, and that all around lie the sentinel
stars, scattered on a background of infinite space. If you take an older boy or girl and let
him or her stand in the middle to represent the sun, then a smaller one would be the earth,
and the smallest of all the moon; only in truth we could never get anyone large enough to represent
the sun fairly, for the biggest giant that ever lived would be much too small in proportion.
The one representing the sun must stand in the middle, and turn slowly round and round. Then
let the earth-child turn too, and all the time she is spinning like a top she must be also
hastening on in a big ring round the sun; but she must not go too fast, for the little moon-child
must keep on running round her all the time. And the moon-child must keep her face turned always
to the earth, so that the earth never sees her back. That is an odd thing, isn't it? We have
never seen the other side of the moon, which goes round us, always presenting the same face to us.

The earth is not the only world going round the sun; she has many brothers and a sister; some
are nearer to the sun than she is, and some are further away, but all circle round the great
central light-giver in rings lying one outside the other. These worlds are called planets,
and the earth is one of them, and one of the smaller ones, too, nothing so great and important
as we might have imagined.

CHAPTER II

HANGING IN SPACE

If you are holding something in your hand and you let it go, what happens? It falls to the
ground, of course. Now, why should it do so? You will say: 'How could it do anything else?'
But that is only because you are hampered by custom. Try to shake yourself free, and think,
Why should it go down instead of up or any other way? The first man who was clever enough to
find some sort of an answer to this question was the great philosopher Sir Isaac Newton, though
he was not quite the first to be puzzled by it. After years of study he discovered that every
thing attracts every other thing in proportion to their masses (which is what you know as weight)
and their distance from each other. In more scientific language, we should say every body instead
of every thing, for the word body does not only mean a living body, but every lump or mass
of matter in the universe. The earth is a body in this sense, and so is the table or anything
else you could name. Now as the earth is immeasurably heavier than anything that is on it,
it pulls everything toward itself with such force that the little pulls of other things upon
each other are not noticed. The earth draws us all toward it. It is holding us down to it every
minute of the day. If we want to move we have to exert another force in order to overcome this
attraction of the earth, so we exert our own muscles and lift first one foot and then the other
away from the earth, and the effort we make in doing this tires us. All the while you are walking
or running you are exercising force to lift your feet away from the ground. The pull of the
earth is called gravitation. Just remember that, while we go on to something else which is
almost as astonishing.

We know that nothing here on earth continues to move for ever; everything has to be kept going.
Anything left to itself has a tendency to stop. Why is this? This is because here in the world
there is something that fights against the moving thing and tries to stop it, whether it be
sent along the ground or thrown up in the air. You know what friction is, of course. If you
rub your hands along any rough substance you will quickly feel it, but on a smooth substance
you feel it less. That is why if you send a stone spinning along a carpet or a rough road it
stops comparatively soon, whereas if you use the same amount of force and send it along a sheet
of ice it goes on moving much longer. This kind of resistance, which we call friction, is one
of the causes which is at work to bring things to a standstill; and another cause is the resistance
of the air, which is friction in another form. It may be a perfectly still day, yet if you
are bicycling you are breaking through the air all the time, just as you would be through water
in swimming, only the resistance of the air is less than that of water. As the friction or
the resistance of the air, or both combined, gradually lessens the pace of the stone you sent
off with such force, the gravitation of the earth begins to be felt. When the stone first started
the force you gave to it was enough to overcome the gravitation force, but as the stone moves
more slowly the earth-pull asserts itself, and the stone drops down to the ground and lies
still upon the surface. Now, if there were no friction, and therefore no resistance, there
would be no reason why anything once set moving should not go on moving for ever. The force
you give to any object you throw is enough to overcome gravitation; and it is only when the
first force has been diminished by friction that the earth asserts its authority and pulls
the moving object toward it. If it were possible to get outside the air and out of reach of
the pull of the earth, we might fling a ball off into space, and it would go on in a straight
line until something pulled it to itself by the force of gravity.

Gravitation affects everything connected with the earth; even our air is held to the earth
by gravitation. It grows thinner and thinner as we get further away from the earth. At the
top of a high mountain the air is so thin that men have difficulty in breathing, and at a certain
height they could not breathe at all. As they cannot breathe in very fine air, it is impossible
for them to tell by personal experiment exactly where the air ends; but they have tried to
find out in other ways, and though different men have come to different conclusions on the
subject, it is safe to say that at about two hundred miles above the earth there is nothing
that could be called air. Thus we can now picture our spinning earth clothed in a garment of
air that clings closely about her, and grows thinner and thinner until it melts away altogether,
for there is no air in space.

Now in the beginning God made the world, and set it off by a first impulse. We know nothing
about the details, though further on you shall hear what is generally supposed to have taken
place; we only know that, at some remote age, this world, probably very different from what
it is now, together with the other planets, was sent spinning off into space on its age-long
journey. These planets were not sent off at random, but must have had some particular connection
with each other and with the sun, for they all belong to one system or family, and act and
react on each other. Now, if they had been at rest and not in movement, they would have fallen
right into the sun, drawn by the force of gravitation; then they would have been burned up,
and there would have been an end of them. But the first force had imparted to them the impulse
to go on in a straight line, so when the sun pulled the result was a movement between the two:
the planets did not continue to move in a straight line, neither did they fall on to the sun,
but they went on a course between the two--that is, a circle--for the sun never let them get
right away from him, but compelled them to move in circles round him. There is a very common
instance of this kind of thing which we can see, or perhaps feel, every day. If you try to
sit still on a bicycle you tumble off, because the earth pulls you down to itself; but if,
by using the force of your own muscles, you give the bicycle a forward movement this resists
the earth-pull, and the result is the bicycle runs along the ground. It does not get right
away from the earth, not even two or three feet above ground; it is held to the earth, but
still it goes forward and does not fall over, for the movement is made up of the earth-pull,
which holds it to the ground, and the forward movement, which propels it along. Then again,
as another instance, if you tie a ball to a string and whirl it round you, so long as you keep
on whirling it will not fall to the ground, but the moment you stop down it drops, for there
is nothing to fight against the pull of gravitation. Thus we can picture the earth and all
the planets as if they were swinging round the sun, held by invisible strings. It is the combination
of two forces that keeps them in their places--the first force and the sun's pull. It is very
wonderful to think of. Here we are swinging in space on a ball that seems only large to us
because we are so much smaller ourselves; there is nothing above or below it but space, yet
it travels on day by day and year by year, held by invisible forces that the brain of man has
discovered and measured.

Of course, every planet gives a pull at every other planet too, but these pulls are so small
compared with that of the sun that we need not at present notice them. Then we come to another
point. We said that every body pulled every other body in proportion to their weights and their
distance. Now, gravity acts much more strongly when things are near together than when they
are far away from each other; so that if a smaller body is near to another somewhat larger
than itself, it is pulled by it much more strongly than by a very much larger one at a considerably
greater distance. We have an instance of this in the case of the earth and moon: as the earth
responds to the pull of the sun, so the moon responds to the pull of the earth. The moon is
so comparatively near to the earth that the earth-pull forces her to keep on going round and
round, instead of leaving her free to circle round the sun by herself; and yet if you think
of it the moon does go round the sun too. Recall that game we had when the sun was in the middle,
and the two smaller girls, representing the earth and moon, went round it. The moon-child turned
round the earth-child, but all the while the earth-child was going round the sun, so that in
a year's time the moon had been all round the sun too, only not in a straight line. The moon
is something like a dog who keeps on dancing round and round you when you go for a walk. He
does go for the walk too, but he does much more than that in the same time. Thus we have further
completed our idea of our world. We see it now hanging in space, with no visible support, held
in its place by two mighty forces; spinning on year after year, attended by its satellite the
moon, while we run, and walk, and cry, and laugh, and play about on its surface--little atoms
who, except for the brain that God has given them, would never even have known that they are
continually moving on through endless space.

CHAPTER III

THE SHINING MOON

'Once upon a time,' long, long ago, the earth was not a compact, round, hard body such as she
is now, but much larger and softer, and as she rotated a fragment broke off from her; it did
not go right away from her, but still went on circling round with the motion it had inherited
from her. As the ages passed on both the earth and this fragment, which had been very hot,
cooled down, and in cooling became smaller, so that the distance between them was greater than
it had been before they shrank. And there were other causes also that tended to thrust the
two further from each other. Yet, compared with the other heavenly bodies, they are still near,
and by looking up into the sky at night you can generally see this mighty fragment, which is
a quarter the diameter of the earth--that is to say, a quarter the width of the earth measured
from side to side through the middle. It is--as, of course, you have guessed--the moon. The
moon is the nearest body to us in all space, and so vast is the distance that separates us
from the stars that we speak as if she were not very far off, yet compared with the size of
the earth the space lying between us and her is very great. If you went right round the world
at the thickest part--that is to say, in the region of the Equator--and when you arrived at
your starting-point went off once again, and so on until you had been round ten times, you
would only then have travelled about as far as from the earth to the moon!

The earth is not the only planet which has a moon, or as it is called, a satellite, in attendance.
Some of the larger planets have several, but there is not one to compare with our moon. Which
would you prefer if you had the choice, three or four small moons, some of them not much larger
than a very big bright star, or an interesting large body like our own moon? I know which I
should say.

'You say that the moon broke off from the earth, so perhaps there may be some people living
on her,' I hear someone exclaim.

If there is one thing we have found out certainly about the moon, it is that no life, as we
know it, could exist there, for there is neither air nor water. 

Daumer shook his head. "What man of intelligence or ability will be composed pure hypocrisy condescend
to live on bread and water, and all that the palate likes, with disgust on his own show, "he
said. "For the sake of the benefits?"

"No matter," said Binder undecided, "it seems a complex history. Since no one suspect can say
what the game is getting at, is cautious more so than challenged
by one careless good faith the just scorn of discernment.

"

"That sounds almost as if only the skeptics and naysayers may mean discriminating," Daumer
remarked, frowning. "From the world we have not enough."

The mayor shrugged and looked at the young teacher with that of mild irony of which is the weapon of
the more experienced compared to the enthusiast. "We have a renewed Investigation decided by the
court doctor, "he continued.

"The Magistrate Behold, Baron von Tucher and you, dear Daumer should
attend this study acting.

The act will then be recorded, together with the already existing police reports, the county government
to send. "

"I understand: files, records," said Daumer mocking smile.

The mayor put his hand on the shoulder and said good-naturedly: "Do
not be so superior, Lord, our world now tastes even after ink, and
because you have bookworms but certainly not the least debt.

By the way, he "felt in his chest and brought a Rock folded piece of paper to light, "to be
a member of the Commission asked you to to get introduced to an important document. It is the
letter that our prisoner at the Captain delivered Wessenig. Read. "

That was with no name provided signature write: "I send you all a Boy, sir, wishes to serve his
king and he is true to the soldiers. The boy has been put to me in 1815, on a winter night,
as he lay on my door. Have children myself, am poor, I can hardly get through himself, he is a
foundling, and his Mother have I can not ask. 've Never let him step out of the house, no One
knows of him, he does not know how my house is, and the place he do not know. You may even ask
him, he can not say, however, because the language is still poorly ordered from him. If he
had parents, as he has none, would be something Efficient become
of him, You need only to show him something because he can do the
same.

In the middle of the night I him continued, and he has no money with him, and if you do not keep
him, must You kill him and hang in the chimney.

"

When Tom had read, he returned the document to the mayor and went with serious Face up and down.

"Well,
what do you think," inquired Binder;?

"Some of our gentlemen are of the opinion of the unknown himself could have written the letter.
"

Daumer stopped with a jerk pause in his walk, threw up his hands and cried: "Ah! you heavenly
grace! "

"This is of course no reason at all," the mayor hastened to add. "That has prevailed in the drafting
of the letter a purposeful malice, that it intended to is difficult to investigate and to mislead is
obvious. It is a despicable cold-heartedness in a tone that excited me from the beginning
to the suspicion that the young man's innocent victims a crime. "

A courageous opinion in which the mayor was encouraged by a process very which occurred shortly after
the gentlemen of the Commission on the following morning, the prison
had entered Caspar Hauser.

While the guard was busy trying to undress the boy, could be heard down below in an alley at
the castle hill and pulled a peasant music with drums Game on the wall over. Since a ghastly
looking to tremor ran through the body Hauser, his face, even his hands were covered with sweat, his
eyes rolled to all fibers listened counter terror, then he let out an animal cry, rushed to the
ground and remained lying quivering and sobbing.

The men turned pale and looked at each other perplexed. After a while it approached the Daumer
Unfortunate, laid his hand on his head and spoke a few comforting words. This had reassuring
to the youth, and he was silent, nevertheless seemed incredible impression
wounding of the heard sound his body from the inside and from outside.

For days afterwards showed its essence the legacies of the shock felt he was feverish on the
pallet, and his skin was lemon yellow. Sympathetic issues with it, however, was warmly moved,
and he searched for words to show his gratitude, and his otherwise clear vision clouded in
dark pain, especially for the Professor Daumer, the two-to three times a day came to him, he
put a tender gratitude, silence, or stammering, dar.

In one of these visits was Daumer with the boy alone, and that for the first time, the Keeper
had blocked his request to the lower gate. He was sitting right next to the prisoner, he talked,
asked researched, all on a futile effort of sincerity, patience and List. Finally, he confined
himself to the doings of the young man full of tension observed.

Suddenly thrust Caspar Hauser from his confused sounds: he seemed a little too call and looked
around searching. Daumer guessed soon filled and handed him the water jug, The Hill was placed
on the stove. Caspar took the jug, put it to his lips and drank. He drank in long gulps, with blissful
ease and an enthusiastic lighting up the eyes, as if he had forgotten
the brief period of enjoyment, that the demonic Unknown to all sides
pressed him.

Daumer fell into a strange excitement. When he came home, he paced for longer than a half an
hour with great strides his study. About eight clock there was a knock at the door his sister
came in and called him for dinner.

"What do you think, Anna," he called to her lively and with full sound relationship, "twice
two is four, eh?"

"It seems so," replied the girl, amazed, laughing, "all the people there say. Have you discovered
that it is different?

That you would look like, you rabble rousers. "

"Not just this I have discovered, but something of the sort," said Daumer serene and laid his
arm around the shoulder of the nurse. "I want to dance even let our brave Philistines! Yes dance,
they are to me, and marvel. "

"It affects about even the boulder? Do you have something against him? Be on your guard only,
Friedrich, and do not get into trouble, it is not without you, this green. "

"Certainly," he admitted of tune quickly replied, "the ABC could suffer damage."

"Well, we still know nothing about the eccentric," asked for table Daumer's mother, a gentle
old lady.

Daumer shook his head. "For the time being one can only guess, soon we will know," replied he
rigidly upward glance.

The next day brought the "Morning Post, an article that was headlined"

Who is Caspar Hauser? Although this appeal to give the reader an answer could not, was the throng of
the curious so great that the mayor's office was forced to the Visiting
hours to control by a strict rule.

Sometimes people stood at the head Head in front of the open door of the jail, and in all faces,
the question read: What is it with him? What is it for a man who understands the words do not
yet speak can not recognize things and can still see who is able to laugh, no sooner had his
crying to the end that seems innocent, mysterious and glowing behind the innocent Eyes maybe wrongdoing
and shame are hidden?

Certainly felt the prisoner, it felt painful, which directed the lust for him Views sought,
and the desire to gratify them, produced perhaps the first illuminating Twilight, which made him slow
to understand even the past, so that in distressed Chest after what has been sampled, a former
first felt and the present so that combined, measured in the deepest, shuddering at the time,
learned what they did with it changing, and what he saw compared to what he formerly saw. He understood
the question and was demanding of the agent holds to satisfy the longing looks.

With thirsty senses he tried to speak. His imploring glance, it dug out the talking Mouth of the
people.

This thumb was in his element. What no one else, not the doctor, the guards do not, the Mayor not
only succeed in the minute-takers would not be right that was capable to and after his caution and
purposeful patience. The person of the foundling occupied him but also so much that he studies and his
private duties, and almost his public Office forgot about it and he seemed like a man the fate
before him only the certain experience has been, so his whole life and thought of a happy confirmation
experiences. In his notes of Caspar Hauser was one of the first as follows: "This in a strange
world helpless fluctuating form this schlafumfangene glance, this anxiety-related behavior Gesture,
this stunted on a slightly lower face towering noble brow, on which Peace and purity radiation:
there are witnesses for me invincible German force. If the conjecture true, that they meet me,
when I, the roots of this existence dig up and can bring its branches to bloom, I want the
world that has become dull Immaculate humanity as against the mirror, and you will see that it
is valid evidence that the existence of the soul that all of the
idolaters miserable time with passion is denied.

"

It was a difficult path that was full of jealous teacher. Where he had to begin human language
was an unsubstantial thing, word for word until its meaning was attached, Memory until awakened,
cause and effect in their concatenation only be unveiled. Between a question and the next
were worlds of understanding, a "yes, a no, often thrown helpless
still was not where each term only arose out of the darkness and the
understanding of Vocabulary hesitated to vocabulary.

And it seemed like a light from a distant past the spirit of youth to inspire much faster than
even the blessed hope of Daumer had dared expect. It was amazing with what ease and power he
once said and how he held out of the chaos the sounds lifeless for him Living and Meaningful
full image conjured up so that it Daumer felt as he merely lifted the veil of eyes his protege, as he
played the role of the eavesdropper with the slow-bulging Memories. He held the body, while
the spirit of the boy returned to the district of where he came and
brought a customer, nor ear heard the like.

Caspar Hauser's report, recorded by Daumer

As far as Caspar could remember, he was always in a dark room was
never anywhere else, always in the same room.

Never seen the man, never heard his step, never his voice, no sound of a bird, not a cry of an
animal, not the rays of the sun sees, not the glimmer of the moon. Heard nothing but themselves, and
yet nothing of himself knowing the loneliness of not becoming occupied.

The room must have been of small width, for he believed, once with outstretched have touched two
arms to opposite walls. Previously, it seemed infinitely large; chained to a bed of straw, without
seeing the ankle, Caspar had never stain the earth leave on which he slept without dreams, without
dreams awake. Twilight and darkness were distinguished, he did so by day and night, and he knew
their names, but he saw the blackness once he awoke in the night
and the walls had disappeared.

He had no measure of the time. He could not say when started the unfathomable loneliness had at no
time because he thought that it could ever end. He felt no transformation in his body, he did not
want that something should be different from what it was, it frightened him not a safe, non
Future brought him to the past had nothing words silently ran the Clock rule full of life barely
felt, was his inner silence as the air that surrounded him.

When he awoke the next morning, he found fresh bread filled next to
the camp and the water jug.

Sometimes the water tasted different than usual, and if he had been drinking, lost his alertness
and fell asleep. After waking up, he then had the jug in your hand very often, He held it long
in the mouth, but no water came out, he placed it over again back and waited to see if not
soon get water because he did not know that it was taken, had but he no idea that he could
be out of anyone. On such days he was pure Straw on his bed, a clean shirt on the body, the
nails trimmed, his hair shorter, the skin cleaned. All this had happened in his sleep, though
he noticed it, and no reflection veiled his mind about it.

Caspar Hauser was not alone: ​​he had a comrade. He had a white horse Wood, a nameless, motionless
thing, and yet something in which his own existence dimly reflected.

As he suspected the living form in him, he considered it his equal, and in the dull sheen of his
artificial eye beads all the light of the outside world was over. He did not play with him,
not even silent conversation he held with him, and although it stood on a small board with wheels,
he never thought it to slide back and forth.

But if he ate his bread, he handed him every bite, before it even to his lips, and before
he fell asleep, he stroked it with a caressing hand.

That was his only action in many days, many years.

Then it happened once during the time of waking, that opened the wall, and from outside forth from
the Niegesehenen appeared an immense figure, a Niegesehener, the first Andre, of the word you
said and why you called Caspar. The ceiling of the room rested on his shoulders, something incomprehensible
Light and mutable in the movement was its members, a noise was around him, filled the ear,
according to sound flowed rapidly from its Lips, breathless listening
forced the brightness of his eyes, and his clothes hung on the Outside,
as a narcotic odor.

Of the many words that came from the lips of you, Caspar first understood none, but deeply agitated
by paying attention, he gradually realized that the enormity would take him away, that the thing
that shared his solitude, the name was Ross that he had received other horses will learn and that
he should.

said, "learning," which you always learn to learn ". And how to explain what you mean, he placed
a stool with four round feet in front of him, put a piece of paper out twice wrote the name
of Caspar Hauser, and led in writing out Caspar's hand. This pleased Caspar, black and white
because it looked like.

You put out of a book on the stool and said, pointing to the tiny
characters the words before.

Caspar she could repeat all, without any grasped the meaning. Also certain other words and phrases
after he babbled that tells him the man, for example: "I'd 'a rider to be like my father."

Which you seemed satisfied, at any rate, to reward him, he showed him in that the wooden horse
on the ground could scroll back and forth, and so that Casper hilarious when he next morning awoke.
He pushed the little horse in front of his bed and down, which resulted in a sound the ears did
woe, so he left it again and started having to talk to the horse by he unintelligible sounds from
the mouth of imitating you. It was a strange pleasure for him to
hear himself, he raised his arms and filled the room with his joyful
Gelall.

His jailers liked him angry and so upset, he wanted to silence
him: Caspar saw at once a bar fly over his shoulder and felt at once
a violent Pain in her arms, that he fell forward in terror. In the
midst of fear, he made the amazing perception that he was no longer
connected to the warehouse. For a while behaved He is very quiet,
then he tried to slide forward, but he shuddered when he and his bare
feet touched the cold ground. With difficulty he reached his bed and
fell immediately in Sleep.

It was three times night and day, before
which you returned and tried if his name still Caspar could read and
write the words from the book. He did not hide his admiration as The
boy, this easily could. He pointed to things around the room and called
her name, he spoke slowly, eye to eye with Caspar, and held it firmly
while at the shoulder, through his Looks, his gestures, the distortion
of his features through Caspar knew what he was saying, and he shuddered
as his tongue faltering the man was obedient.

The following night
he was roused from sleep. Lange and anguish he felt it, and could
not quite awake. When he finally opened his eyes, the wall was opened,
and a purple glow flowed into the room. Which you were leaning over
him and said softly, perhaps Caspar fear to breast feed. He taught
and held it up with pants, with a coat and boots, then he set him
on his feet, he leaned against the wall and turned his back on him.
He embraced his legs, took him up, embraced Caspar with the arms of
his neck, and now it went up a high hill, it seemed Caspar; in reality
it was probably the stairs of the underground dungeon. He seems just to circle round the horizon,
never very far above, but never dipping below it.

When the sun is high overhead, his rays strike down with much more force than when he is low.
It is, for instance, hotter at mid-day than in the evening. Now, when the North Pole is bowed
toward the sun, the sun appears to us to be higher in the sky. In the British Isles he never
climbs quite to the zenith, as we call the point straight above our heads; he always keeps
on the southern side of that, so that our shadows are thrown northward at mid-day, but yet
he gets nearer to it than he does in winter. Look at the picture of the earth as it is in winter.
Then we have long nights and short days, and the sun never appears to climb very high, because
we are turned away from him. During the short days we do not receive a great deal of heat,
and during the long night the heat we have received has time to evaporate to a great extent.
These two reasons--the greater or less height of the sun in the sky and the length of the days--are
quite enough to account for the difference between our summer and winter. There is one rather
interesting point to remember, and that is that in the Northern Hemisphere, whether it is winter
or summer, the sun is south at mid-day, so that you can always find the north then, for your
shadow will point northwards.

New Zealand and Australia and other countries placed in the Southern Hemisphere, as we are
in the Northern, have their summer while we have winter, and winter while we have summer, and
their summer is warmer than ours, because it comes when the earth in its journey is three million
miles nearer to the sun than in our summer.

All this seems to refer to the earth alone, and this chapter should be about the planets; but,
after all, what applies to one planet applies to another in some degree, and we can turn to
the others with much more interest now to see if their axes are bowed toward the sun as ours
is. It is believed that in the case of Mercury, in regard to its path round the sun, the axis
is straight up and down; if it is the changes of the seasons must depend on the nearness of
Mercury to the sun and nothing else, and as he is a great deal nearer at one time than another,
this might make a very considerable difference. Some of the planets are like the earth in regard
to the position of their axes, but the two outermost ones, Uranus and Neptune, are very peculiar,
for one pole is turned right toward the sun and the other right away from it, so that in one
hemisphere there is continuous day all the summer, in the other there is continuous night,
and then the process is reversed. But these little peculiarities we shall have to note more
particularly in the account of the planets separately.

There is a curious fact in regard to the distances of the planets from the sun. Each one, after
the first, is, very roughly, about double the distance from the sun of the one inside it. This
holds good for all the first four, then there is a great gap where we might expect to find
another planet, after which follow the four large planets. Now, this gap puzzled astronomers
greatly; for though there seemed to be no reason why the planets should be at regular distances
one outside the other, yet there the fact was, and that the series should be broken by a missing
planet was annoying. So very careful search was made, and a thrill of excitement went all through
the scientific world when it was known that a tiny planet had been discovered in the right
place. But this was not the end of it, for within a few years three or four more tiny planets
were observed not far from the first one, and, as years rolled on, one after another was discovered
until now the number amounts to over six hundred and others are perpetually being added to
the list! Here was a new feature in the solar system, a band of tiny planets not one of which
was to be compared in size with the least of those already known. The largest may be about
as large as Europe, and others perhaps about the size of Wales, while there may be many that
have only a few square miles of surface altogether, and are too small for us to see. To account
for this strange discovery many theories were advanced.

One was that there had been a planet--it might be about the size of Mars--which had burst up
in a great explosion, and that these were the pieces--a very interesting and exciting idea,
but one which proved to be impossible. 

Now it is certain, and bestättiget by Holy Scripture, that God with his omnipotence either directly
by his will or by the holy angels, prophets, apostles and other Saints who have produced works
of astonishing.

The church's history can also transfer the disbelief that these wonders painting in the early days
of Christianity to countless happened. Learned and honest Protestants do not deny it even to that
of the Indian holy apostle by revelation have proven miracles his mission. It is also certain
that by the evil spirit of approval done God's work, which exceed natural causes at all. As
with our Saviour took place, as he was led into temptation in the wilderness, alone is enough
to to prove it. No Christian can deny that there were people that the evil Spirit had possessed,
thus the evil spirit of the human bodies have a power.

Just so it's also true that the devil by tumult, by vile delusions & C. the people have placed
in fear. Even the Protestants confess that the Heyden, anbethen in which the idols of India,
experienced all the cruelty of their cursed master, they serve, but if you through salvation.
Sacrament of Baptism from serfdom be rid of the devil, and members of the church, all these
devilish delusions one End company, which has given rise to the conversion
of many Heyden.

So here is the question: whether such extraordinary effects are possible? but the whole difficulty
rests out to prove that a certain accident really happened; and if
he happened to turn out that such an accident Sey, which the forces
of natural causes went beyond.

Since then, the sciences and arts have come in uptake, it also has the most natural Causes
of those effects, which had set the ignorant in amazement at the entdecket obvious. For examples
of what are the eclipses, which formerly whole Nations, which occurred the same as miracles,
in the most terrible fear and anxiety in Terror had cast down. The improvement of the science
star but all this fear distributed. This play, which formerly seemed so frightening occasioned
us no fear. We admire the omnipotence of the Creator very quiet, which these large Body, in an infinitely
large space, with such accuracy, so many centuries herumwälzet that even the weak people joke
has it going that same return work out to future centuries to a certain
set time and to be able to.

The Schüßpulver, The electric effects, the delusions of mirrors and other optical Art pieces are of
such a nature that every man is, they Unknown are, can put in the
biggest surprise.

  There are also many scammers bedienet same, the leichtglaubige Publicum
  to lead to the fact that they were the greatest magician. [b]
  

[B] Different types of accidents and the like cheaters, one reads in incomparable treatise of the
famous Herman Boerhaave in entitled Elementa Chemia. 1. B. 2 Th Venice 1737th

It is also true and certain that accommodate the more the arts and sciences, the more the wonders diminish.
The witchcraft of the Dead (Magia Posthuma) from which the question
is, serve on a new evidence.

  [c] For all these events are only in areas in which the ignorance still
  reigns. It is also likely that the schismatic Greeks the main settings
  are the same. [d]
  
  [C] The learned Father Augustin Calmet, in his history of vampires
  = =, secondly that the portion of his book = of the phenomena of
  = Ghost accounts, and in 1751. at Augsburg in German getretten to light
  is bekräftiget that it almost 60th Years, that the reputation
  of the vampires in Hungary, Pohlen, Silesia and has begun to spread Moravia.
  Calmet wrote his book Ghosts and vampires in 1745. and in truth in
the newspaper Mercurius mentioned in the 1693rd and 1694.

  Over years we read similar stories of many vampires in Pohlen, and particularly
  in Pohlisch traps.
  
  [D] What is in Greece, and in the Archipelago of the Brucolachen = =
  tell it, this is namely what one professes elsewhere by the vampires.
The abbot Langlet says in the preface of his historical-dogmatic Treatise
of the phenomena = =: Vampyr, Brucolach or Timpanit gleichdeutige
are all words. It makes one giddy
to picture the seconds there are in a year; yet if each one of those seconds was a year in
itself, what then? That seems a stupendous time, but it is nothing compared with the time needed
to form a nebula into a planetary system. If we had five thousand of such years, with every
second in them a year, we should then only have counted one billion real years, and billions
must have passed since the sun was a gaseous nebula filling the outermost bounds of our system!

CHAPTER V

FOUR SMALL WORLDS

What must the sun appear to Mercury, who is so much nearer to him than we are? To understand
that we should have to imagine our sun increased to eight or nine times his apparent size,
and pouring out far greater heat and light than anything that we have here, even in the tropics.
It was at first supposed that Mercury must have an extra thick covering of clouds to protect
him from this tremendous glare; but recent observations tend to prove that, far from this,
he is singularly free from cloud. As this is so, no life as we know it could possibly exist
on Mercury.

His year--the time he takes to go round the sun and come back to the same place again--is eighty-eight
days, or about one-quarter of ours. As his orbit is much more like an ellipse than a circle,
it follows that he is much nearer to the sun at one time than at another--in fact, when he
is nearest, the size of the sun must seem three and a half times greater than when he is furthest
away from it! Even at the best Mercury is very difficult to observe, and what we can learn
about him is not much; but, as we have heard, his axis is supposed to be upright. If so his
seasons cannot depend on the bend toward or away from the sun, but must be influenced solely
by the changes in his distance from the sun, which are much greater than in our own ease. There
is some reason to believe, too, that Mercury's day and year are the same length. This means
that as the planet circles round the sun he turns once. If this is so the sun will shine on
one half of the planet, producing an accumulated heat terrific to think of; while the other
side is plunged in blackness. The side which faces the sun must be heated to a pitch inconceivable
to us during the nearer half of the orbit--a pitch at which every substance must be at boiling-point,
and which no life as we know it could possibly endure. Seen from our point of view, Mercury
goes through all the phases of the moon, as he shines by the reflected light of the sun; but
this point we shall consider more particularly in regard to Venus, as Venus is nearer to us
and easier to study. For a long time astronomers had a fancy that there might be another planet
even nearer to the sun than Mercury, perhaps hidden from us by the great glare of the sun.
They even named this imaginary planet Vulcan, and some thought they had seen it, but it is
tolerably certain that Vulcan existed only in imagination. Mercury is the nearest planet to
the sun, and also the smallest, of course excepting the asteroids. It is about three thousand
miles in diameter, and as our moon is two thousand miles, it is not so much bigger than that.
So far as we are concerned, it is improbable we shall ever know very much more about this little
planet.

But next we come to Venus, our beautiful bright neighbour, who approaches nearer to us than
any other heavenly body except the moon. Alas! when she is nearest, she like Mercury, turns
her dark side toward us, coming in between us and the sun, so that we cannot observe her at all.

Everyone must have noticed Venus, however carelessly they have looked at the sky; but it is
likely that far more people have seen her as an evening than a morning star, for most people
are in bed when the sun rises, and it is only before sunrise or after sunset we can see Venus
well. She is at her best from our point of view when she seems to us to be furthest from the
sun, for then we can study her best, and at these times she appears like a half or three-quarter
moon, as we only see a part of the side from which the sunlight is reflected. She shines like
a little silver lamp, excelling every other planet, even Jupiter, the largest of all. If we
look at her even with the naked eye, we can see that she is elongated or drawn out, but her
brilliance prevents us from seeing her shape exactly; to do this we must use a telescope.

It is a curious fact that some planets shine much more brightly than others, without regard
to their size--that is to say, the surface on which the sun's rays strike is of greater reflecting
power in some than in others. One of the brightest things in Nature that we can imagine is
a bank of snow in sunlight; it is so dazzling that we have to look away or wink hard at the
sight; and the reflective power of the surface of Venus is as dazzling as if she were made
of snow. This is probably because the light strikes on the upper surface of the clouds which
surround her. In great contrast to this is the surface of Mercury, which reflects as dully
as a mass of lead. Our own moon has not a high reflecting power, as will be easily understood
if we imagine what the world would be if condemned to perpetual moonlight only. It would, indeed,
be a sad deprivation if the mournful cold light of the moon, welcome enough as a change from
sunlight, were to take the place of sunlight in the daytime.

For a very long time astronomers could not discover what time Venus took in rotating on her
own axis--that is to say, what the length of her day was. She is difficult to observe, and
in order to find out the rotation it is necessary to note some fixed object on the surface
which turns round with the planet and comes back to the same place again, so that the time
it takes in its journey can be measured. But the surface of Venus is always changing, so that
it is impossible to judge at all certainly. Opinions differ greatly, some astronomers holding
that Venus's day is not much longer than an earthly day, while others believe that the planet's
day is equal to her year, just as in the case of Mercury. Venus's year is 225 days, or about
seven and a half of our months, and if, indeed, her day and year are the same length, very
peculiar effects would follow. For instance, terrible heat would be absorbed by the side of
the planet facing the sun in the perpetual summer; and the cold which would be felt in the
dreary winter's night would far exceed our bitterest Arctic climate. We cannot but fancy that
any beings who might live on a planet of this kind must be different altogether from ourselves.
Then, there is another point: even here on earth very strong winds are caused by the heating
of the tropics; the hot air, being lighter than the cold air, rises, and the colder air from
the poles rushes in to supply its place. This causes wind, but the winds which would be raised
on Venus by the rush of air from the icy side of the planet to the hot one would be tornadoes
such as we could but faintly dream of. It is, of course, useless to speculate when we know
so little, but in a subject so intensely interesting we cannot help guessing a little.

Venus is only slightly smaller than the earth, and her density is not very unlike ours; therefore
the pull of gravity must be pretty much there what it is here--that is to say, things will
weigh at her surface about the same as they do here. Her orbit is nearly a circle, so that
her distance from the sun does not vary much, and the heat will not be much greater from this
cause at one time of the year than another.

As her orbit is tilted up a little she does not pass between us and the sun at each revolution,
but occasionally she does so, and this passing is called a transit. Many important facts have
been learned by watching these transits. Mercury also has transits across the sun, but as she
is so much smaller than Venus they are not of such great importance. It was by the close observation
of Venus during her transits that the distance from the earth to the sun was first measured.
Not until the year 2004 will another transit of Venus occur.

It is not difficult to imagine that the earth must appear a splendid spectacle from Venus,
whence she is seen to great advantage. When nearest to us she must see us like a little moon,
with markings as the continents and seas rotate, and these will change as they are obscured
by the clouds rolling over them. At the North and South Poles will be glittering ice-caps,
growing larger and smaller as they turn toward or away from the sun. A brilliant spectacle!

We might say with a sigh, 'If only we could see such a world!' Well, we can see a world--not
indeed, so large as Venus, yet a world that comes almost as near to us as Venus does, and which,
unlike her, is outside us in order from the sun, so that when it is nearest to us the full
sunlight is on it. This is Mars, our neighbour on the other side, and of all the fascinating
objects in the sky Mars is the most fascinating, for there, if anywhere, should we be likely
to discover beings like ourselves!

Mars takes rather more than half an hour longer to rotate than we do, and as he is so much
smaller than the earth, this means that he moves round more slowly. His axis is bent at nearly
the same angle as ours is. Mars is much smaller than the earth, his diameter is about twice
that of the moon, and his density is about three-quarters that of the earth, so that altogether,
with his smaller size and less density, anything weighing a hundred pounds here would only
weigh some forty pounds on Mars; and if, by some miraculous agency, you were suddenly transported
there, you would find yourself so light that you could jump enormous distances with little
effort, and skip and hop as if you were on springs.

Look at the map of Mars, in which the surface appears to be cut up into land and water, continents
and oceans. The men who first observed Mars with accuracy saw that some parts were of a reddish
colour and others greenish, and arguing from our own world, they called the greenish parts
seas and the reddish land. For a long while no one doubted that we actually looked on a world
like our own, more especially as there was supposed to be a covering of atmosphere. The so-called
land and water are much more cut up and mixed together than ours, it is true. Caspar obeyed waver and trembling,
the air and the light of his eyelids were burning, the smell made him , Cheat lost consciousness.

He
slept again, how long, he did not know.

He also did not go as often as he had tried, when it was dark again. Maybe he thought it was
night now, while they were only in a forest. The way he saw not, he could not say whether it went
up or down. Whether trees or lawns or houses were there, he did not know. Sometimes He seemed
all ablaze in red glow, but when the soft, dark came, stretched Air and earth blue and green. Whether
people passed by, saying he could not, he saw not the sky, he did not even see the man's face.
Once water fell from a height; He thought of you pour it with water, and complained, but that
said he pour it does not, he pointed into the air and shouted, "rain! Rain! "

How long he thus been traveling, he did not know.

Seemed to him every time he was exhausted by walking down to rest, a day has passed. Fear pulled
him up and mastered his weariness, she flexed his wrists and pulled his head up, while his
eyes constantly stared at depth. You gave him the same thing to eat bread, which he enjoyed in prison,
and let to drink water from a bottle. Caspar's exhaustion and his fear that if the wind is the
bushes, rushed, or when an animal cried, or when the grass clattered to his feet, looked to defeat
it by the promise of a beautiful horse, and when at last a long time Caspar could walk alone,
he said, now they are almost there. He jerked his arm into the distance and said, "Big City".

Caspar
saw nothing, he staggered forward groped, after a while it did of you in the poor as a sign
that he should stop, gave him a letter and said, near the mouth of
Caspar Ear: "Let her show, where the letter belongs."

Caspar took a few steps, and when he then looked around, you was gone.

He felt suddenly stones under his feet, he felt for all sides to talk, He saw stone walls,
which blazed in the sunlight fiery, but horror seized him until he People saw, the first one,
then two, then many.
 A curious appearance has been noticed when it is melting: a dark shadow
seems to grow underneath the edge of it and extends gradually, and as it extends the canals
near it appear much darker and clearer than they did before, and then the canals further south
undergo the same change. This looks as if the melting of the snow filled up the canals with
water, and was a means of watering the planet by a system totally different from anything we
know here, where our poles are surrounded by oceans, and the ice-caps do not in the least affect
our water-supply. But, then, another strange fact had to be taken into consideration. These
straight lines called canals ran out over the seas occasionally, and it was impossible to believe
that if they were canals they could do that. Other things began to be discussed, such as the
fact that the green parts of Mars did not always remain green. In what is the springtime of
Mars they are so, but afterwards they become yellow, and still later in the season parts near
the pole turn brown. Thus the idea that the greenish parts are seas had to be quite given up,
though it appeared so attractive. The idea now generally believed is that the greenish parts
are vegetation--trees and bushes and so on, and that the red parts are deserts of reddish sand,
which require irrigation--that is to say, watering--before anything can be grown on them. The
apparent doubling of the canals may be due to the green vegetation springing up along the banks.
This might form two broad lines, while the canal itself would not be seen, and when the vegetation
dies down, we should see only the trench of the canal, which would possibly appear faint and
single. Therefore the arrangements on Mars appear to be a rich and a barren season on each
hemisphere, the growth being caused by the melting of the polar ice-cap, which sends floods
down even beyond the Equator. If we could imagine the same thing on earth we should have to
think of pieces of land lying drear and dry and dead in winter between straight canal-like
ditches of vast size. A little water might remain in these ditches possibly, but not enough
to water the surrounding land. Then, as summer progressed, we should hear, 'The floods are
coming,' and each deep, huge canal would be filled up with a tide of water, penetrating further
and further. The water drawn up into the air would fall in dew or rain. Vegetation would spring
up, especially near the canal banks, and instead of dreary wastes rich growths would cover
the land, gradually dying down again in the winter. So far Mars seems in some important respects
very different from the earth. He is also less favourably placed than we are, for being so
much further from the sun, he receives very much less heat and light. His years are 687 of
our days, or one year and ten and a half months, and his atmosphere is not so dense as ours.
With this greater distance from the sun and less air we might suppose the temperature would
be very cold indeed, and that the surface would be frost-bound, not only at the poles, but
far down towards the Equator. Instead of this being so, as we have seen, the polar caps melt
more than those on the earth. We can only surmise there must be some compensation we do not
know of that softens down the rigour of the seasons, and makes them milder than we should suppose
possible.

Of course, the one absorbing question is, Are there people on Mars? To this it is at present
impossible to reply. We can only say the planet seems in every way fitted to support life,
even if it is a little different from our earth. It is most certainly a living world, not a
dead one like the moon, and as our knowledge increases we may some day be able to answer the
question which so thrills us.

Our opportunities for the observation of Mars vary very greatly, for as the earth's orbit lies
inside that of Mars, we can best see him when we are between him and the sun. Of course, it
must be remembered that the earth and the other planets are so infinitely small in regard to
the space between them that there is no possibility of any one of them getting in such a position
that it would throw a shadow on any other or eclipse it. The planets are like specks in space,
and could not interfere with one another in this way. When Mars, therefore, is in a line with
us and the sun we can see him best, but some of these times are better than others, for this
reason--the earth's orbit is nearly a circle, and that of Mars more of an ellipse.

Look at the illustration and remember that Mars' year is not quite two of ours--that is to
say, every time we swing round our orbit we catch him up in a different place, for he will
have progressed less than half his orbit while we go right round ours.

Sometimes when we overtake him he may be at that part which is furthest away from us, or he
may be at that part which is nearest to us, and if he is in the latter position we can see
him best. Now at these, the most favourable times of all, he is still more than thirty-five
millions of miles away--that is to say, one hundred and forty times as far as the moon, yet
comparatively we can see him very well. He is coming nearer and nearer to us, and very soon
will be nearer than he has been since 1892, or fifteen years ago. Then many telescopes will
be directed on him, and much may be learned about him.

For a long time it was supposed that Mars had no moons, and when Dean Swift wrote 'Gulliver's
Travels' he wanted to make the Laputans do something very clever, so he described their discovery
of two moons attending Mars, and to make it quite absurd he said that when they observed these
moons they found that one of them went round the planet in about ten hours. Now, as Mars takes
more than twenty-four hours to rotate, this was considered ridiculous, for no moon known then
took less time to go round its primary world than the primary world took to turn on its own
axis. Our own moon, of course, takes thirty times as long--that is a month contains thirty
days. Then one hundred and fifty years later this jest of Dean Swift's came true, for two moons
were really discovered revolving round Mars, and one of them does actually take less time to
complete its orbit than the planet does to rotate--namely, a little more than seven hours!
So the absurdity in 'Gulliver's Travels' was a kind of prophecy!

These two moons are very small, the outer one perhaps five or six miles in diameter, and the
inner one about seven; therefore from Mars the outer one, Deimos, cannot look much more than
a brilliant star, and the inner one would be but a fifth part the apparent width of our own
moon. So Mars is not very well off, after all. Still, there is great variety, for it must be
odd to see the same moon appearing three times in the day, showing all the different phases
as it goes from new to full, even though it is small!

Such wonderful discoveries have already been made that it is not too much to say that perhaps
some day we may be able to establish some sort of communication with Mars, and if it be inhabited
by any intelligent beings, we may be able to signal to them; but it is almost impossible that
any contrivance could bridge the gulf of airless space that separates us, and it is not likely
that holiday trips to Mars will ever become fashionable!

CHAPTER VI

FOUR LARGE WORLDS

I have told you about the four lesser worlds of which our earth is one, and you know that beyond
Mars, the last of them, there lies a vast space, in which are found the asteroids, those strange
small planets circling near to each other, like a swarm of bees. After this there comes Jupiter,
who is so enormous, so superb in size compared with us, that he might well serve as the sun
of a little system of his own. You remember that we represented him by a football, while the
earth was only a greengage plum. But Jupiter himself is far less in comparison with the sun
than we are in comparison with him. He differs from the planets we have heard about up to the
present in that he seems to glow with some heat that he does not receive from the sun. The
illumination which makes him appear as a star to us is, of course, merely reflected sunlight,
and what we see is the external covering, his envelope of cloud.

There is every reason to believe that the great bulk of Jupiter is still at a high temperature.
We know that in the depths of the earth there is still plenty of heat, which every now and
then makes its presence felt by bursting up through the vents we call volcanoes, the weak spots
in the earth's crust; but our surface long ago cooled, for the outside of any body gets cool
before the inside, as you may have found if ever you were trying to eat hot porridge, and circled
round the edge of the plate with a spoon. A large body cools more slowly than a small one,
and it is possible that Jupiter, being so much larger than we are, has taken longer to cool.
One reason we have for thinking this is that he is so very light compared with his size--in
other words, his density is so small that it is not possible he could be made of materials
such as the earth is made of.

As I said, when we study him through telescopes we see just the exterior, the outer envelope
of cloud, and as we should expect, this changes continually, and appears as a series of belts,
owing to the rotation of the planet. Jupiter's rotation is very rapid; though he is so much
greater than the earth, he takes less than half the time the earth does to turn round--that
is to say, only ten hours. His days and nights of five hours each seem short to us, accustomed
to measure things by our own estimates. But we must remember that everything is relative; that
is to say, there is really no such thing as fast or slow; it is all by comparison. A spider
runs fast compared with a snail, but either is terribly slow compared with an express train;
and the speed of an express train itself is nothing to the velocity of light.

In the same way there is nothing absolutely great or small; it is all by comparison. We say
how marvellous it is that a little insect has all the mechanism of life in its body when it
is so tiny, but if we imagine that insect magnified by a powerful microscope until it appears
quite large, the marvel ceases. Again, imagine a man walking on the surface of the earth as
seen from a great distance through a telescope: he would seem less than an insect, and we might
ask how could the mechanism of life be compressed into anything so small? Thus, when we say
enormous or tiny we must always remember we are only speaking by the measurements of our own
standards.

There is nothing very striking about Jupiter's orbit. He takes between eleven and twelve of
our years to get round the sun, so you see, though his day is shorter, his year is longer than
ours. And this is not only because his path is much larger, but because by the law of gravity
the more distant a planet is from the sun the more slowly it travels, so that while the earth
speeds over eighteen miles Jupiter has only done eight. Of course, we must be careful to remember
the difference between rotation and revolution. Jupiter rotates much quicker than the earth--that
is to say, he turns round more quickly--but he actually gets over the ground more slowly. The
sun appears much smaller to him than it does to us, and he receives considerably less light
and heat. There are various spots on his surface, and one remarkable feature is a dark mark,
which is called the 'great red spot.' If as we suppose what we see of the planet is merely
the cloudy upper atmosphere, we should not expect to find anything permanent there, for the
markings would change from day to day, and this they do with this exception--that this spot,
dark red in colour, has been seen for many years, turning as the planet turned. It was first
noticed in 1878, and was supposed to be some great mountain or excrescence peeping up through
the clouds. It grew stronger and darker for several years, and then seemed to fade, and was
not so easily seen, and though still remaining it is now pale. But, most startling to say,
it has shifted its position a little--that is, it takes a few seconds longer to get round the
planet than it did at first. A few seconds, you will say, but that is nothing! It does not
seem much, but it shows how marvellously accurate astronomers are. Discoveries of vast importance
have been made from observing a few seconds' discrepancy in the time the heavenly bodies take
in their journeys, and the fact that this spot takes a little longer in its rotation than it
did at first shows that it cannot be attached to the body of the planet. It is impossible for
it to be the summit of a mountain or anything of that sort. What can it be? No one has yet
answered that question.

When we get to the chapter on the sun, we shall find curiosities respecting the spots there
as well.

Jupiter has seven moons, and four of these are comparatively large. They have the honour of
having been the first heavenly bodies ever actually discovered, for the six large planets nearest
the sun have been known so long that there is no record of their first discovery, and of course
our own moon has always been known. Galileo, who invented the telescope, turned it on to the
sky in 1610, when our King Charles I. was on the throne, and he saw these curious bodies which
at first he could not believe to be moons. The four which he saw vary in size from two thousand
one hundred miles in diameter to nearly three thousand six hundred. You remember our own moon
is two thousand miles across, so even the smallest is larger than she. They go round at about
the same level as the planet's Equator, and therefore they cross right in front of him, and
go behind him once in every revolution. Since then the other three have been discovered in
the band of Jupiter's satellites--one a small moon closer to him than any of the first set,
and two others further out. It was by observation of the first four, however, that very interesting
results were obtained. Mathematicians calculated the time that these satellites ought to disappear
behind Jupiter and reappear again, but they found that this did not happen exactly at the time
predicted; sometimes the moons disappeared sooner than they should have done, and sometimes
later. Then this was discovered to have some relation to the distance of our earth from Jupiter.
When he was at the far side of his immense orbit he was much more distant from us than when
he was on the nearer side--in fact, the difference may amount to more than three hundred millions
of miles. And it occurred to some clever man that the irregularities in time we noticed in
the eclipses of the satellites corresponded with the distance of Jupiter from us. The further
he drew away from us, the later were the eclipses, and as he came nearer they grew earlier.
By a brilliant inspiration, this was attributed to the time light took to travel from them
to us, and this was the first time anyone had been able to measure the velocity or speed of
light. For all practical purposes, on the earth's surface we hold light to be instantaneous,
and well we may, for light could travel more than eight times round the world in one second.
It makes one's brain reel to think of such a thing. Then think how far Jupiter must be away
from us at the furthest, when you hear that sometimes these eclipses were delayed seventeen
minutes--minutes, not seconds--because it took that time for light to cross the gulf to us!

Sound is very slow compared with light, and that is why, if you watch a man hammering at a
distance, the stroke he gives the nail does not coincide with the bang that reaches you, for
light gets to you practically at once, and the sound comes after it. No sound can travel without
air, as we have heard, therefore no sound reaches us across space. If the moon were to blow
up into a million pieces we should see the amazing spectacle, but should hear nothing of it.
Light travels everywhere throughout the universe, and by the use of this universal carrier
we have learnt all that we know about the stars and planets. When the time that light takes
to travel had been ascertained by means of Jupiter's satellites, a still more important problem
could be solved--that was our own distance from the sun, which before had only been known approximately,
and this was calculated to be ninety-two millions seven hundred thousand miles, though sometimes
we are a little nearer and sometimes a little further away.

Jupiter is marvellous, but beyond him lies the most wonderful body in the whole solar system.
We have found curiosities on our way out: we have studied the problem of the asteroids, of
the little moon that goes round Mars in less time than Mars himself rotates; we have considered
the 'great red spot' on Jupiter, which apparently moves independently of the planet; but nothing
have we found as yet to compare with the rings of Saturn. May you see this amazing sight through
a telescope one day!

Look at the picture of this wonderful system, and think what it would be like if the earth
were surrounded with similar rings! The first question which occurs to all of us is what must
the sky look like from Saturn? What must it be to look up overhead and see several great hoops
or arches extending from one horizon to another, reflecting light in different degrees of intensity?
It would be as if we saw several immense rainbows, far larger than any earthly rainbow, and
of pure light, not split into colours, extending permanently across the sky, and now and then
broken by the black shadow of the planet itself as it came between them and the sun. However,
we must begin at the beginning, and find out about Saturn himself before we puzzle ourselves
over his rings. Saturn is not a very great deal less than Jupiter, though, so small are the
other planets in comparison, that if Saturn and all the rest were rolled together, they would
not make one mass so bulky as Jupiter! Saturn is so light--in other words, his density is so
small--that he is actually lighter than water. He is the lightest, in comparison with his size,
of any of the planets. Therefore he cannot be made largely of solid land, as our earth is,
but must be to a great extent, composed of air and gaseous vapour, like his mighty neighbour.
He approaches at times as near to Jupiter as Jupiter does to us, and on these occasions he
must present a splendid spectacle to Jupiter. He takes no less than twenty-nine and a half
of our years to complete his stately march around the sun, and his axis is a little more bent
than ours; but, of course, at his great distance from the sun, this cannot have the same effect
on the seasons that it does with us. Saturn turns fast on his axis, but not so fast as Jupiter,
and in turning his face, or what we call his surface, presents much the same appearance to
us that we might expect, for it changes very frequently and looks like cloud belts.

The marvellous feature about Saturn is, of course, the rings. There are three of these, lying
one within the other, and separated by a fine line from each other. The middle one is much
the broadest, probably about ten thousand miles in width, and the inner one, which is the darkest,
was not discovered until some time after the others. As the planet swings in his orbit the
rings naturally appear very different to us at different times. Sometimes we can only see them
edgewise, and then even in the largest telescope they are only like a streak of light, and
this shows that they cannot be more than fifty or sixty miles in thickness. The one which is
nearest to Saturn's surface does not approach him within ten thousand miles. Saturn has no
less than ten satellites, in addition to the rings, so that his midnight sky must present a
magnificent spectacle. The rings, which do not shine by their own light but by reflected sunlight,
are solid enough to throw a shadow on the body of the planet, and themselves receive his shadow.
Sometimes for days together a large part of Saturn must suffer eclipse beneath the encircling
rings, but at other times, at night, when the rings are clear of the planet's body, so that
the light is not cut off from them, they must appear as radiant arches of glory spanning the sky.

The subject of these rings is so complicated by the variety of their changes that it is difficult
for us even to think about it. It is one of the most marvellous of all the features of our
planetary system. What are these rings? what are they made of? It has been positively proved
that they cannot be made of continuous matter, either liquid or solid, for the force of gravity
acting on them from the planet would tear them to pieces. What, then, can they be? It is now
pretty generally believed that they are composed of multitudes of tiny bodies, each separate,
and circling separately round the great planet, as the asteroids circle round the sun. As each
one is detached from its neighbour and obeys its own impulses, there is none of the strain
and wrench there would be were they all connected. According to the laws which govern planetary
bodies, those which are nearest to the planet will travel more quickly than those which are
further away. Of course, as we look at them from so great a distance, and as they are moving,
they appear to us to be continuous. It is conjectured that the comparative darkness of the
inside ring is caused by the fact that there are fewer of the bodies there to reflect the sunlight.
Then, in addition to the rings, enough themselves to distinguish him from all other planets,
there are the ten moons of richly-endowed Saturn to be considered. It is difficult to gather
much about these moons, on account of our great distance from them. The largest is probably
twice the diameter of our own moon. One of them seems to be much brighter--that is to say,
of higher reflecting power--on one side than the other, and by distinguishing the sides and
watching carefully, astronomers have come to the conclusion that it presents always the same
face to Saturn in the same way as our own moon does to us; in fact, there is reason to think
that all the moons of large planets do this.

All the moons lie outside the rings, and some at a very great distance from Saturn, so that
they can only appear small as seen from him. Yet at the worst they must be brighter than ordinary
stars, and add greatly to the variations in the sky scenery of this beautiful planet. In connection
with Saturn's moons there is another of those astonishing facts that are continually cropping
up to remind us that, however much we know, there is such a vast deal of which we are still
ignorant. So far in dealing with all the planets and moons in the solar system we have made
no remark on the way they rotate or revolve, because they all go in the same direction, and
that direction is called counter-clockwise, which means that if you stand facing a clock and
turn your hand slowly round the opposite direction to that in which the hands go, you will
be turning it in the same way that the earth rotates on its axis and revolves in its orbit.
It is, perhaps, just as well to give here a word of caution. Rotating of course means a planet's
turning on its own axis, revolving means its course in its orbit round the sun. Mercury, Venus,
Earth, Mars, Jupiter, and all their moons, as well as Saturn himself, rotate on their axes
in this one direction--counter-clockwise--and revolve in the same direction as they rotate.
Even the queer little moon of Mars, which runs round him quicker than he rotates, obeys this
same rule. Nine of Saturn's moons follow this example, but one independent little one, which
has been named Phoebe, and is far out from the planet, actually revolves in the opposite way.
We cannot see how it rotates, but if, as we said just now, it turns the same face always to
Saturn, then of course it rotates the wrong way too. A theory has been suggested to account
for this curious fact, but it could not be made intelligible to anyone who has not studied
rather high mathematics, so there we must just leave it, and put it in the cabinet of curiosities
we have already collected on our way out to Saturn.

For ages past men have known and watched the planets lying within the orbit of Saturn, and
they had made up their minds that this was the limit of our system. But in 1781 a great astronomer
named Herschel was watching the heavens through a telescope when he noticed one strange object
that he was certain was no star. The vast distance of the stars prevents their having any definite
outline, or what is called a disc. The rays dart out from them in all directions and there
is no 'edge' to them, but in the case of the planets it is possible to see a disc with a telescope,
and this object which attracted Herschel's attention had certainly a disc. He did not imagine
he had discovered a new planet, because at that time the asteroids had not been found, and
no one thought that there could be any more planets. Yet Herschel knew that this was not a
star, so he called it a comet! He was actually the first who discovered it, for he knew it
was not a fixed star, but it was after his announcement of this fact that some one else, observing
it carefully, found it to be a real planet with an orbit lying outside that of Saturn, then
the furthest boundary of the solar system. Herschel suggested calling it Georgius Sidus, in
honour of George III., then King; but luckily this ponderous name was not adopted, and as the
other planets had been called after the Olympian deities, and Uranus was the father of Saturn,
it was called Uranus. It was subsequently found that this new planet had already been observed
by other astronomers and catalogued as a star no less than seventeen times, but until Herschel's
clear sight had detected the difference between it and the fixed stars no one had paid any
attention to it. Uranus is very far away from the sun, and can only sometimes be seen as a
small star by people who know exactly where to look for him. In fact, his distance from the
sun is nineteen times that of the earth.

Yet to show at all he must be of great size, and that size has actually been found out by the
most delicate experiments. If we go back to our former comparison, we shall remember that if
the earth were like a greengage plum, then Uranus would be in comparison about the size of
one of those coloured balloons children play with; therefore he is much larger than the earth.

In this far distant orbit the huge planet takes eighty-four of our years to complete one of
his own. A man on the earth will have grown from babyhood to boyhood, from boyhood to the prime
of life, and lived longer than most men, while Uranus has only once circled in his path.

But in dealing with Uranus we come to another of those startling problems of which astronomy
is full. So far we have dealt with planets which are more or less upright, which rotate with
a rotation like that of a top. Now take a top and lay it on one side on the table, with one
of its poles pointing toward the great lamp we used for the sun and the other pointing away.
That is the way Uranus gets round his path, on his side! He rotates the wrong way round compared
with the planets we have already spoken of, but he revolves the same way round the sun that
all the others do. It seems wonderful that even so much can be found out about a body so far
from us, but we know more: we have discovered that Uranus is made of lighter material than
the earth; his density is less. How can that be known? Well, you remember every body attracts
every other body in proportion to the atoms it contains. If, therefore, there were any bodies
near to Uranus, it could be calculated by his influence on them what was his own mass, which,
as you remember, is the word we use to express what would be weight were it at the earth's
surface; and far away as Uranus is, the bodies from which such calculations may be made have
been discovered, for he has no less than four satellites, or moons. Considering now the peculiar
position of the planet, we might expect to find these moons revolving in a very different way
from others, and this is indeed the case. They turn round the planet at about its Equator--that
is to say, if you hold the top representing Uranus as was suggested just now, these moons would
go above and below the planet in passing round it. Only we must remember there is really no
such thing as above and below absolutely. We who are on one side of the world point up to the
sky and down to the earth, while the people on the other side of the earth, say at New Zealand,
also point up to the sky and down to the earth, but their pointings are directly the opposite
of ours. So when we speak of moons going above and below that is only because, for the moment,
we are representing Uranus as a top we hold in our hands, and so we speak of above and below
as they are to us.

It was Herschel who discovered these satellites, as well as the planet, and for these great
achievements he occupies one of the grandest places in the rôle of names of which England is
proud. But he did much more than this: his improvements in the construction of telescopes,
and his devotion to astronomy in many other ways, would have caused him to be remembered without
anything else.

Of Uranus's satellites one, the nearest, goes round in about two and a half days, and the one
that is furthest away takes about thirteen and a half days, so both have a shorter period than
our moon.

The discovery of Uranus filled the whole civilized world with wonder. The astronomers who had
seen him, but missed finding out that he was a planet, must have felt bitterly mortified, and
when he was discovered he was observed with the utmost accuracy and care. The calculations
made to determine his path in the sky were the easier because he had been noted as a star in
several catalogues previously, so that his position for some time past was known. Everybody
who worked at astronomy began to observe him. From these facts mathematicians set to work,
and, by abstruse calculations, worked out exactly the orbit in which he ought to move; then
his movements were again watched, and behold he followed the path predicted for him; but there
was a small difference here and there: he did not follow it exactly. Now, in the heavens there
is a reason for everything, though we may not always be clever enough to find it out, and it
was easily guessed that it was not by accident that Uranus did not precisely follow the path
calculated for him. The planets all act and react on one another, as we know, according to
their mass and their distance, and in the calculations the pull of Jupiter on Saturn and of
Saturn on Uranus were known and allowed for. But Uranus was pulled by some unseen influence also.

A young Englishman named Adams, by some abstruse and difficult mathematical work far beyond
the power of ordinary brains, found out not only the fact that there must be another planet
nearly as large as Uranus in an orbit outside his, but actually predicted where such a planet
might be seen if anyone would look for it. He gave his results to a professor of astronomy
at Cambridge. Now, it seems an easy thing to say to anyone, 'Look out for a planet in such
and such a part of the sky,' but in reality, when the telescope is turned to that part of the
sky, stars are seen in such numbers that, without very careful comparison with a star chart,
it is impossible to say which are fixed stars and which, if any, is an intruder. There happened
to be no star chart of this kind for the particular part of the sky wanted, and thus a long
time elapsed and the planet was not identified. Meantime a young Frenchman named Leverrier
had also taken up the same investigation, and, without knowing anything of Adams' work, had
come to the same conclusion. He sent his results to the Berlin Observatory, where a star chart
such as was wanted was actually just being made. By the use of this the Berlin astronomers
at once identified this new member of our system, and announced to the astonished world that
another large planet, making eight altogether, had been discovered. Then the English astronomers
remembered that they too held in their hands the means for making this wonderful discovery,
but, by having allowed so much time to elapse, they had let the honour go to France. However,
the names of Adams and Leverrier will always be coupled together as the discoverers of the
new planet, which was called Neptune. The marvel is that by pure reasoning the mind of man
could have achieved such results.

If the observation of Uranus is difficult, how much more that of Neptune, which is still further
plunged in space! Yet by patience a few facts have been gleaned about him. He is not very different
in size from Uranus. He also is of very slight density. His year includes one hundred and sixty-five
of ours, so that since his discovery in 1846 he has only had time to get round less than a
third of his path. His axis is even more tilted over than that of Uranus, so that if we compare
Uranus to a top held horizontally, Neptune will be like a top with one end pointing downwards.
He rotates in this extraordinary position, in the same manner as Uranus--namely, the other
way over from all the other planets, but he revolves, as they all do, counter-clockwise.

Seen from Neptune the sun can only appear about as large as Venus appears to us at her best,
and the light and heat received are but one nine-hundreth part of what he sends us. Yet so
brilliant is sunshine that even then the light that falls on Neptune must be very considerable,
much more than that which we receive from Venus, for the sun itself glows, and from Venus the
light is only reflected. The sun, small as it must appear, will shine with the radiance of
a glowing electric light. To get some idea of the brilliance of sunlight, sit near a screen
of leaves on some sunny day when the sun is high overhead, and note the intense radiance of
even the tiny rays which shine through the small holes in the leaves. The scintillating light
is more glorious than any diamond, shooting out coloured rays in all directions. A small sun
the apparent size of Venus would, therefore, give enough light for practical purposes to such
a world as Neptune, even though to us a world so illuminated would seem to be condemned to
a perpetual twilight.

CHAPTER VII

THE SUN

So far we have referred to the sun just so much as was necessary to show the planets rotating
round him, and to acknowledge him as the source of all our light and heat; but we have not
examined in detail this marvellous furnace that nourishes all the life on our planet and burns
on with undiminished splendour from year to year, without thought or effort on our part. To
sustain a fire on the earth much time and care and expense are necessary; fuel has to be constantly
supplied, and men have to stoke the fire to keep it burning. Considering that the sun is not
only vastly larger than all the fires on the earth put together, but also than the earth itself,
the question very naturally occurs to us, Who supplies the fuel, and who does the stoking on
the sun? Before we answer this we must try to get some idea of the size of this stupendous
body. It is not the least use attempting to understand it by plain figures, for the figures
would be too great to make any impression on us--they would be practically meaningless; we
must turn to some other method. Suppose, for instance, that the sun were a hollow ball; then,
if the earth were set at the centre, the moon could revolve round her at the same distance
she is now, and there would be as great a distance between the moon and the shell of the sun
as there is between the moon and the earth. This gives us a little idea of the size of the
sun. Again, if we go back to that solar system in which we represented the planets by various
objects from a pea to a football, and set a lamp in the centre to do duty for the sun, what
size do you suppose that lamp would have to be really to represent the sun in proportion to
the planets? Well, if our greengage plum which did duty for the earth were about three-quarters
of an inch in diameter we should want a lamp with a flame as tall as the tallest man you know,
and even then it would not give a correct idea unless you imagined that man extending his arms
widely, and you drew round him a circle and filled in all the circle with flame! If this glorious
flame burnt clear and fair and bright, radiating beams of light all around, the little greengage
plum would not have to be too near, or it would be shrivelled up as in the blast of a furnace.
To place it at anything resembling the distance it is from the sun in reality you would have
to walk away from the flaming light for about three hundred steps, and set it down there; then,
after having done all this, you would have some little idea of the relative sizes of the sun
and the earth, and of the distance between them.

Of course, all the other planets would have to be at corresponding distances. On this same
scale, Neptune, the furthest out, would be three miles from our artificial sun! It seems preposterous
to think that some specks so small as to be quite invisible, specks that crawl about on that
plum, have dared to weigh and measure the gigantic sun; but yet they have done it, and they
have even decided what he is made of. The result of the experiments is that we know the sun
to be a ball of glowing gas at a temperature so high that nothing we have on earth could even
compare with it. Of his radiating beams extending in all directions few indeed fall on our
little plum, but those that do are the source of all life, whether animal or vegetable. If
the sun's rays were cut off from us, we should die at once. Even the coal we use to keep us
warm is but sun's heat stored up ages ago, when the luxuriant tropical vegetation sprang up
in the warmth and then fell down and was buried in the earth. At night we are still enjoying
the benefit of the sun's rays--that is, of those which are retained by our atmosphere; for
if none remained even the very air itself would freeze, and by the next morning not one inhabitant
would be left alive to tell the awful tale. Yet all this life and growth and heat we receive
on the whole earth is but one part in two thousand two hundred millions of parts that go out
in all directions into space. It has been calculated that the heat which falls on to all the
planets together cannot be more than one part in one hundred millions and the other millions
of parts seem to us to be simply wasted.

For untold ages the sun has been pouring out this prodigal profusion of glory, and as we know
that this cannot go on without some sort of compensation, we want to understand what keeps
up the fires in the sun. It is true that the sun is so enormous that he might go on burning
for a very long time without burning right away; but, then, even if he is huge, his expenditure
is also huge. If he had been made of solid coal he would have been all used up in about six
thousand years, burning at the pace he does. Now, we know that the ancient Egyptians kept careful
note of the heavenly bodies, and if the sun were really burning away he must have been very
much larger in their time; but we have no record of this; on the contrary, all records of the
sun even to five thousand years ago show that he was much the same as at present. It is evident
that we must search elsewhere for an explanation. It has been suggested that his furnace is
supplied by the number of meteors that fall into him. Meteors are small bodies of the same
materials as the planets, and may be likened to the dust of the solar system. It is not difficult
to calculate the amount of matter he would require on this assumption to keep him going, and
the amount required is so great as to make it practically impossible that this is the source
of his supply. We have seen that all matter influences all other matter, and the quantity of
meteoric stuff that would be required to support the sun's expenditure would be enough to have
a serious effect on Mercury, an effect that would certainly have been noticed. There can, therefore,
be no such mass of matter near the sun, and though there is no doubt a certain number of meteors
do fall into his furnaces day by day, it is not nearly enough to account for his continuous
radiation. It seems after this as if nothing else could be suggested; but yet an answer has
been found, an answer so wonderful that it is more like a fairy tale than reality.

To begin at the beginning, we must go back to the time when the sun was only a great gaseous
nebula filling all the space included in the orbit of Neptune. This nebula was not in itself
hot, but as it rotated it contracted. Now, heat is really only a form of energy, and energy
and heat can be interchanged easily. This is a very startling thing when heard for the first
time, but it is known as surely as we know anything and has been proved again and again. , In the second volume of this book p.
  173 we read the word comes from the new Greek words Brucolach βοουρχος,
  which is called mud, and the other by a λααχος which a pit or Cloack
  anzeiget being that it is commonly observed that the crypts, where beisetzet
  like body, are full of mud.

Tournefort Illuminator and a learned physician, but also the most skilful Botanicus Reasonable or herb
of his century as it was in the fourteenth Louis, kings, France, been sent to Asia, mainly in
Greece look to that of herbs that the ancients had described the most part very wrong, was
himself present, and saw those very close to the body, which one of witchcraft after the death
(Magia Posthuma) indicted had. He also saw all the means to prevent it applied to the devil of this
body could no longer be operated to put the living in fear and terror. [e] The circumstances this
coincidence can be found in the book, which leadeth the title: Voyage au Levant par Mr. Tournefort.
And because the nature and manner of the letters is written, it is gemeldte history 3rd in the letters.

[E]
This is the first of January was 1,701th in the island to Micon.

  The abbot Calmet this story tell it in his above-mentioned Beech 32nd
  Cap. namely, as to how we of Tournefort have received.
  
  This event can be seen, what to make of those who are in Hungarians
in the village of Haydon properties beyond the river Tisza with Transylvania
in 1732. has occurred.

[f] The witchcraft of the Dead (Magia Posthuma) went back in those areas in vogue. They called
the dead, who were so vicious, Vampyri, and believed that they suck both our people as the cattle
blood. [g] And if a man of the flesh of such a Cattle would have enjoyed something, he would order
for themselves and for the Vampyre, and on what always a way, he will become a vampire, namely,
as a sufferer (passivus) in life, one would He Being active after death (activus), other than he
had previously from the earth of the Tomb of a Vampyres eaten and rubbed with the same blood.

[F]
Several such stories can be found recorded in a Dutch critic of us under the French name Le Glaneur
in 1732. has been known. Still others read it in the so-called Jewish Epistles = = 1738, and
in the Abten Calmet displayed = = beech Cap. 8.

  
  [G] = = vampire, or Upyr schlavonisches is a word, and is called
  Drain on = =.
  
  But it is me this story only ever known and I supposition that the
oral Memoir (processus verbalis) on their course in the beginning
of the 1732nd Year due places been filed.

  [h]
  

[H] Charles VI. Rom. Kaiser (seel. In thought) gave this Businessman Alexander, Prince of the host
mountain, where the time Kingdom of Servia managed.

  The ceremonies, which have been dabey must observe are in the office
  or Hadvagy man of being local has been ordered to learn what
  matters in vampyre fairly had.

Man Blow ye the Vampyre a very sharp stake through the chest, and through the whole Body.
Then his head was cut off. Everything was burned and the ashes in the pit gescharret together.

It
can be swift to Vampyre. Because of vampirism to put so much as the dross. It is also believed that
the body of a vampire in a short time, all those bodies to vampires do, in which case, the first
not to be buried him in the very same cemetery, will vertilget at
times.

But since I do not have news on all the circumstances, so I will just be content with I'm here
a few comments about those events, which only recently Time was investigated
by people who are prejudiced by any prejudices, but clearly see, and
lead does not easily leave behind the light.

[i]

[I] This accident went into a village in Moravia, as seen in the angemerket has a first note.
The abbot in his Calmet cited Beech 57th Chapter says that the Lord
Baron of Tusseng (Tousiaint) a Lothar Inger, who accompanied his master
everywhere out of 3 August month 1746th I wrote him from Vienna: Her
Majesty the Kaiser, Grand Duke of Tuscany, have in 1732. different
Proto Collen of judicial investigation of the vampires give in Moravia
.

  Let This proto Collen be in those areas as the Gospel considered, they
  never included eight no shadow of truth.
  
  It is true that our vampires from 1755. still no leeches become, and
  the preparations were, however, already do so. The executioner, in
  his craft, no doubt very truthful Assured me that if it hewed to the fire
  which condemned the body into pieces, the Blood, violence, and often it
  hervorschöße whether he had afterwards with Our greatest serenity known
  that this frequent blood etwann could make a spoon full.

This draws in history to be quite a change.

The extraordinary incident characteristics which you want to have therapy may zween in this
Points are drawn together. First, that the bodies of dead vampires or sorcerers not bad, but
quite, and remain together. Secondly, that the vampires, the living alarmed by appearances,
tumult, and overprints.

About this zween points will I make as short as it is possible a few comments.

2. §.

Whether the rotten body of the vampires?

A body is commonly addressed to Verfäulung by which all parts of the
body; except the legs, disappear almost entirely, and only a little
from a very light Earth can return.

This happens in the grave Fäulung but slowly, without the slightest violence.

This is proven by the fact that when a coffin five ten years from
the same burial opened, and eight believed that the coffin gets no
push, you vermeinet, the body lie unverletzet clerical estate.

Man knows the whole face of education, the Leilach, By the way, and all. But as soon as the coffin
moveth only a little, then everything falls into dust and bones verbleibet alone.

Seeing that the dead by the time their successors must make half of the grave space, so one
has in many places 15th Years are destined, before the course of
the grave-digger no body villages move.

I am a few times at the opening of the graves was that the grave-digger to me Some coffins
opened slowly. In this way, I was convinced that after our Death of the worms do not become food,
at least not all the time because otherwise the face of education would not be stopped.

When breaking down the graves, we find at times the whole body, which is not rotten, but rather dry, a
light brown color, and very hard meat have not had that one they
ever einbalsamiret vorhero.

A sexton assured me that one commonly finds one in a hundred dead, which is just dried up
and without Fäulung sey. From this I conclusion that without the aid of a supernatural cause, a
body many years could remain ungefault.

I know very well that it pretends, the body of a vampire remain not only without Fäulung, but there
is also the meat in its freshness, the limbs remain Bügsamkeit.

But even this can be found without a miracle.

Because they saw the body of the zween archduchesses which died at
Brussels, brought to Vienna had, so I was present when they opened
the coffins.

Their faces were completely, and the Movable nose & c. It is true they were einbalsamiret: but
the aromatic herbs, you were down to, even without the slightest odor. This conservation must
therefore first and foremost the well-sealed lead coffin be appropriated, which never allowed any
air and thus prevented the Fäulung.

Accordingly, when the coffin closed well, the earth naturally laid
on each other is through the Cold hardens after the funeral, or to
penetrate the air by other means to prevent is, so either no or Followed
but a very slow Fäulung [k].

[K] tell it erwehnte The Dutch critics, that to Tolos in a Monastery
church is a burial Sey, it's somewhere in front of the two hundred
Years deceased body looks as if they were alive.

  You stand there upright on their feet in the length of the Wall ago their
  religious clothing. The wonderful thing is that in the namely places
  of the non wesenen straightforwardly protruding dead in two or three
  days of decay.
  
  The immortal Muratorius as it was in the 27th Treatise on Italian antiquities,
  of a coin of Hector speaks Visconte drucket themselves with these
words: "This was unehliches a child of Bernabo, he seized the reigns
of Mayland in 1412, but he had a life of Biltz.

As Maria Philip, Duke of Mayland, in the town of Monza belageret was Hector got out a crossbow
a heavy stone's throw of his leg shattered. He died quite young spasm. In 1698. I went to
the considerable Area of ​​Monza, I noticed that his body just before the occasion of a building
been excavated. He was locked in a bad wooden coffin, and still intact, that is, the hand was
not injured, and the broken leg could be seen on foot. If this body is Stellet on the other
foot, he stood upright. And yet this was not a body of a saint, but a wicked. "

In the preface of the book already cited, the learned Abten Langlet titled = Historical and dogmatic
treatise on special appearances, faces, and revelations =, reads you, "I seye allows that I may
here quote a Erfahrniß that would result from the PP. Capuchins going on in Palermo on Sicily. Bestätiget
you what I say, namely that the jeweniger Filth in the human body
is, the harder the fermentation and, consequently, the Fäulung relevant.

One of these Vättern (no doubt a noble nature termination) is a means invented, by virtue of which
the Fäulung the human body after death, for many years, and perhaps centuries, can be prevented.
The mystery or secret, which he brauchet this is a bad thing. He setteth the lifeless body of a perforated
Chair, and after he cut the back in the opening round, Go, by this estuary all the moisture,
and cleanliness, which aspires to Fäulung, even on its own the body out. E'en then he closed his
mouth and pulls the body into that position, in what kind of you will, that he should remain.
In this state shall be such a body, if not centuries, at least very many years. The church
of this unterirrdische Vättern like body is fully supplied with all registered names they have
had in life. Face this tragedy just as it is an occasion of humiliation for humanity yet it is also
a very rare thing, and can happen to those strange, which do not recognize its cause. "

I have read a few months, a small English paper, which in 1751. getretten printed to Londen to
light, and in it I found a strange, and very well proven accident. In the month Februarius 1750th
eröfnete one in the county of Devonshire in Engelland the funeral of an old family, and between
many bones, including decayed coffins found is an even entire wooden coffin. Man eröfnete from
the same curiosity, and found a whole Body of a man in it, the carnal part still had their natural
strength, the limbs, however, as shoulder, elbow, and all the fingers were very bügsam. If
you his face expressed, it yielded to the finger, and rose again
after the suppression.

It is this was observed all over. The beard was black, and long to four inches. The body was
embalmed. Because neither a cut yet another sign of it was aware of it. By Pfarrprotocoll
was established that since 1669. no one in this burial been brought. Here we have an English Vampyre,
which over 80 Years in his Tomb has remained quiet, and no one has belästiget.

And in this paper can be found even more like coincidences, and especially if the Very deep graves,
and are of dry soil. Accordingly, we shall commonly true that if such bodies are exposed to
the open air, advised them soon in a Fäulung. This is enough to shew that the Fäulung not always
happen, and generally slow, strange, when the earth by the cold seems to have closed, or even
before the coffin Air is probably keepeth.

Let us now examine the alleged events to claim the vampyre nature.

Rosina died Polakin 22 December 1754th 19 Jenner 1755th but it is excavated, Expound and as
one of the burning Vampyrinn worthy because they had not yet rotted. The anatomists receive the
body of public air in the winter to 6th Weeks, even to Zwey Mona Then without Fäulung. To
the so it should be noted that this extremely cold winter been. In the other bodies the Fäulung the
greater part had been consumed, it was but enough that not everything was rotten. They had
the fire.

What ignorance! frightful Stupidity! you talk in the writing of the
Consistorii to Olomouc from certain characters, and Maale, which we
should have found the bodies of the vampires.

But they are nowhere described. [L] Zween Bader, who never saw an open body, and no word from
the structure of the human Body knew how they themselves the Commissario known are those witnesses,
which Cause the sentence to be pleasing to burn.

[L] Johann Christoph Berg Here is a book Philosophiæ, & Christianæ cogitationes de Vampyris
written in 1733. The author claimed that the vampires in any way the survivors for life , But we must bring
all of them a false reputation aussprenget ascribe a confused and strong imagination. He leadeth
different examples of rare effects of which among the human imagination can carry through.

Even the Dutch obenbenannte critics say, if I at even the death of the martyrdom of vampirism
believed to consider, so I find them all traces of a disease einbilderischen
Area, and know very clearly that the effect of the great fear of the
Causing death in this nation.

  The author brings about a History with.
  
  The famous Tartarotti said as a wise philosopher his Congresso notturno
  delle Lamie l. 2 c. 11. "For what a Story you think is more certain
  than the story of those who who believe that they will abide by the
  nocturnal vampires attacked, and are therefore been printed, that they
  also die in a short time.

  And but it seems in fact itself is nothing to be otherwise, as absolutely
  a dream come herrühret of terror and fear. " From this view was the learned
  pope and church main Benedict the 14th paper in the 5th vol. 3, where
  he held a short History of the Hungarian, Moravian and Silesian vampires
  verfertiget.
  

  The abbot Calmet the decision of its work, often erwehnten endiget
  with these words: "what one of the Hungarian, Moravian and pohl
  African vampires tell it, I think for a smooth illusion, for an
  effect of a strong and confused Phantasey, hardworking ever studied these
  stories of the judges, and in Respect of them and their opinions may
  be-ing gutgeachtet been. "
  
  What betrift pohl the American vampires, he leads a letter dated
  3 Hornung 1745th to him by the P. Slivyski Visitor from the Vättern
  Missions posted in Pohlen, who confesses in the fact that, All eight,
  he never concern all diligence in this matter used to access a reason
and truth to come, and he never eight frequently with those who is
stated as personal witnesses, even talking, and inquire of them, he
but no one was found who would getrauet to say, He saw something of
what it pretends, even.

  Therefore have He may know what you aussprenget them, be a blank cry,
  a mere imagination, the fear in such a simple-minded people causes.

It
  is true the commissary of Olomouc has not at any time to investigate
  these Bader Thing that would have sent enough. It took only zween spiritual
  commissioners, on which the vampirism of all knightly did their
  statement, it appears from the Anteactis, that one in 1723. the body
of a man 13th Burn days after his death , And let the judgments were
given for this cause, because his grandmother in the community in
a good reputation have been sey.

  
  
  In 1724. you burn the body of a man 18th Days after his death because
  he with the former friends have been. It was enough when you only by the
  friendship of a specified Vampire been said the lawsuit was coming to
  an end.
  
  They burn the body of a man zween days after his death for no other Cause,
  without further testimony, as because the body after death well and looked
  good, and the limbs were still bügsam.
  

From all what has been above angeführet, can be removed clear that the maintenance of a body could
be done without Fäulung from all natural causes, that the commonly Fäulung requires a long time,
which according to the previous illness, or after heat Cooling the air, according to the nature
of the earth, and many other random side issues . Changed their That the consistory of Olomouc
the bodies of the time required Fäulung not allowed, therefore this sign of witchcraft of the dead
fundamentally wrong sey.

For this we have drawn the wrong reason most absurd consequences. Because it has been concluded that a
given Vampyre inspire his wickedness all the bodies, which according
to him in just Freudhof same would be buried.

For this naturally had less body rot , Being as others that have been buried before the Vampyre.

For this reason, the great consistory Olomouc to the 23th April 1731st nine bodies burn , Under
which seven small children can bodies were, because it was thought that it is a Vampyre had been
infected, which was buried in front of them in the same Freudhofe.

The dead bodies, however, found that before the Vampyre allda again drove her grave, grace,
yet, the Lord Wabst commissioners, and Gosser proved that in the
bodies of unsuspecting still intact parts have been present, and found
in one of them a little blood been.

They have proved also that the twain ignorant obbemelte Bader traded with lies.

3. §.

Whether the vampires and the living by appearances c. ? Worry

Now is the that the phenomena which in part or whole of their unverfaulten
Bodies are to come from, be given some consideration.


The same comet is so different at different times that the only possible way of identifying
it is by knowing its path, and even this is not a certain method, for some comets appear to
travel at intervals along the same path!

Now we come to the question that must have been in the mind of everyone from the beginning
of this chapter, What are comets? This question no one can answer definitely, for there are
many things so puzzling about these strange appearances that it is difficult even to suggest
an explanation. Yet a good deal is known. In the first place, we are certain that comets have
very little density--that is to say, they are indescribably thin, thinner than the thinnest
kind of gas; and air, which we always think so thin, would be almost like a blanket compared
with the material of comets. This we judge because they exercise no sort of influence on any
of the planetary bodies they draw near to, which they certainly would do if they were made
of any kind of solid matter. They come sometimes very close to some of the planets. A comet
was so near to Jupiter that it was actually in among his moons. The comet was violently agitated;
he was pulled in fact right out of his old path, and has been going on a new one ever since;
but he did not exercise the smallest effect on Jupiter, or even on the moons. And, as I said
earlier in this chapter, we on the earth have been actually in the folds of a comet's tail.
This astonishing fact happened in June, 1861. One evening after the sun had set a golden-yellow
disc, surrounded with filmy wrappings, appeared in the sky. The sun's light, diffused throughout
our atmosphere, had prevented its being seen sooner. This was apparently the comet's head.
It is described as 'though a number of light, hazy clouds were floating around a miniature
full moon.' From this a cone of light extended far up into the sky, and when the head disappeared
below the horizon this tail was seen to reach to the zenith. But that was not all. Strange
shafts of light seemed to hang right overhead, and could only be accounted for by supposing
that they were caused by another tail hanging straight above us, so that we looked up at it
foreshortened by perspective. The comet's head lay between the earth and the sun, and its tail,
which extended over many millions of miles, stretched out behind in such a way that the earth
must have gone right through it. The fact that the comet exercised no perceptible influence
on the earth at all, and that there were not even any unaccountable magnetic storms or displays
of electricity, may reassure us so that if ever we do again come in contact with one of these
extremely fine, thin bodies, we need not be afraid.

There is another way in which we can judge of the wonderful tenuity or thinness of comets--that
is, that the smallest stars can be seen through their tails, even though those tails must be
many thousands of miles in thickness. Now, if the tails were anything approaching the density
of our own atmosphere, the stars when seen through them would appear to be moved out of their
places. This sounds odd, and requires a word of explanation. The fact is that anything seen
through any transparent medium like water or air is what is called refracted--that is to say,
the rays coming from it look bent. Everyone is quite familiar with this in everyday life, though
perhaps they may not have noticed it. You cannot thrust a stick into the water without seeing
that it looks crooked. Air being less dense than water has not quite so strong a refracting
power, but still it has some. We cannot prove it in just the same way, because we are all inside
the atmosphere ourselves, and there is no possibility of thrusting a stick into it from the
outside! The only way we know it is by looking at something which is 'outside' already, and
we find plenty of objects in the sky. As a matter of fact, the stars are all a little pulled
out of their places by being seen through the air, and though of course we do not notice this,
astronomers know it and have to make allowance for it. The effect is most noticeable in the
case of the sun when he is going down, for the atmosphere bends his rays up, and though we
see him a great glowing red ball on the horizon, and watch him, as we think, drop gradually
out of sight, we are really looking at him for the last moment or two when he has already gone,
for the rays are bent up by the air and his image lingers when the real sun has disappeared.

Therefore in looking through the luminous stuff that forms a comet's tail astronomers might
well expect to see the stars displaced, but not a sign of this appears. It is difficult to
imagine, therefore, what the tail can be made of. The idea is that the sun exercises a sort
of repulsive effect on certain elements found in the comet's head--that is to say, it pushes
them away, and that as the head approaches the sun, these elements are driven out of it away
from the sun in vapour. This action may have something to do with electricity, which is yet
little understood; anyway, the effect is that, instead of attracting the matter toward itself,
in which case we should see the comet's tails stretching toward the sun, the sun drives it
away! In the chapter on the sun we had to imagine something of the same kind to account for
the corona, and the corona and the comet's tails may be really akin to each other, and could
perhaps be explained in the same way. Now we come to a stranger fact still. Some comets go
right through the sun's corona, and yet do not seem to be influenced by it in the smallest
degree. This may not seem very wonderful at first perhaps, but if you remember that a dash
through anything so dense as our atmosphere, at a pace much less than that at which a comet
goes, is enough to heat iron to a white heat, and then make it fly off in vapour, we get a
glimpse of the extreme fineness of the materials which make the corona.

Here is Herschel's account of a comet that went very near the sun:

'The comet's distance from the sun's centre was about the 160th part of our distance from it.
All the heat we enjoy on this earth comes from the sun. Now, that is 25,600. Only imagine a
glare 25,600 times fiercer than that of the equatorial sunshine at noon day with the sun vertical.
In such a heat there is no substance we know of which would not run like water, boil, and be
converted into smoke or vapour. It is supposed that perhaps different elements are thrust away
by the sun at different angles, and one tail may be due to one element and another to another.
But if the comet goes on tail-making to a large extent every time it returns to the sun, what
happens eventually? Do the tails fall back again into the head when out of reach of the sun's
action? Such an idea is inconceivable; but if not, then every time a comet approaches the sun
he loses something, and that something is made up of the elements which were formerly in the
head and have been violently ejected. If this be so we may well expect to see comets which
have returned many times to the sun without tails at all, for all the tail-making stuff that
was in the head will have been used up, and as this is exactly what we do see, the theory is
probably true.

Where do the comets come from? That also is a very large question. As reported to the astonishment of all one of the youngest people
and said he would try but he must still have at least two days time.

He was taken to the emperor, these laughed at the young man and said,
"Even though I you ten weeks to admit the trick but you do not succeed!

"

That may "agree," he replied, "and I myself believe that only a miracle
to help us , but perhaps such a miracle occurs in the two days, "The
Emperor liked this bold response.

"Well, it should be! These two days were not granted to you, "he decided.

The young cop looked at herself in the hall the bag very well and
impressed all permanently into memory, then he went home and made
a very same bag, he was filled with small stones.

On the second day he took this bag, put it in the sleeve of his jacket and was the Kaiser report,
that received him and asked if the miracle had already happened.

The officer then asked the emperor to the bag even allowed to watch, this approved and it was
even with the hall, where the bag was still hanging, guarded by four soldiers.

After he had looked at the bag for a while from all sides, he asked
if it the bag was allowed to take in hand.

Also approved by the emperor. The policeman then took a bank, stood on it and took the bag from the hook,
saw him again and to put it in the sleeve, saying:

"This would go there!"

The emperor replied, laughing: "So I could, but is not allowed. The bag is taken away be, without
anyone knows. Suspended him, then quietly back to the ceiling and give that also you can not run
it! "

Another person apparently made a sad face, pulled the bag out again,
and sigh attached to it.

But he had not taken the bag of gold, but it in the sleeve hung from it with the prepared and mixed
with stone-filled bags, and this, while the real bag and kept up their sleeve with this remote
by the Emperor assured that he hoped to run the next morning but the feat can be.

The Emperor was thus doubling the guard for the night, nor had the
hall lights so bright be that the bag was always to be seen.

The next day came and on the orders of the emperor had all the police officers gather in the hall
how the emperor intended to release them forever of their service.

He ruled the People for quite unfriendly, and then turned to those
young policemen by he sarcastically asked if the miracle had happened.

"I
think so," he replied.

"He's totally crazy or outrageously cheeky,"
cried the emperor. "Does he think I can not see? Since it depends
on the bag! "

"I see," replied the scolded, "that there is probably
a bag, but whether the real is, I doubt! "

"This is really too much,"
cried the emperor. And, however improbable it seems, it is undoubtedly
true that masses of matter do crash down upon the earth from time to time, and these are called
meteorites. When we think of the great expanse of the oceans, of the ice round the poles, and
of the desert wastes, we know that for every one of such bodies seen to fall many more must
have fallen unseen by any human being. Meteors large enough to reach the earth are not very
frequent, which is perhaps as well, and as yet there is no record of anyone's having been killed
by them. Most of them consist of masses of stone, and a few are of iron, while various substances
resembling those that we know here have been found in them. Chemists in analyzing them have
also come across certain elements so far unknown upon earth, though of course there is no saying
that these may not exist at depths to which man has not penetrated.

A really large meteor is a grand sight. If it is seen at night it appears as a red star, growing
rapidly bigger and leaving a trail of luminous vapour behind as it passes across the sky. In
the daytime this vapour looks like a cloud. "Mademoiselle Maya
Lisa will see you as a bride, I'm man enough to establish that. "

The bride turned her eyes in astonishment at his face, and saw that he was serious.

"I'll never forget," she said, "you must really love me if you like
me help in this matter. sake "

At the same moment on her face cleared and she was just as changed.

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

The pastor's daughter was sitting at home on Lövdala in the kitchen chamber, and wept.

The tears rolled her in torrents down her cheeks, and she could not hold them back. You Although
every effort was, for it was highly distasteful to think that the servants might think they just
cry because they had to stay alone at home while parents away were
and are hilarious.

But that was not what made her so unhappy. No, what troubled them so much, was that they keep
their word Britta could not.

If they thought how often it from each other this huge wedding had spoken! She was not been possible
the whole bridal reconcile with her fiance proposed, but there she had always encouraged, if
Maja Lisa had said she was pleased to see Britney in a wedding State.

Yes, Maja Lisa had reason to cry, she'd have to break their word, Britta, that was her too heavy.

Suddenly
she listened! How strange it was her when they hear Schell narrow bell! Yes, and also playing
the violin! She could not be fooled.

Clearer and clearer they hear it. This much was sure she heard something. But where around the world, it might
come? She got up and walked to the east opening windows where she could look out on the avenue
leading to the rectory.

When they had set fire about an hour of fire in the oven, it was already dark outside Evening was, and
now the fire was burned down, and it was dark in the chamber while It was outside become brighter.
Now a clear, starry night shone outside, the snow had on the ground
and the frost on the trees started to light up by itself, and as the
pastor's daughter went to the window, it was just as they look in
a brightly lit Chamber.

Now she saw clearly that a wedding procession through the avenue,
and between the old farm buildings of the backyard came thither.

In the first carriage, the musicians sat in with the violins the chin and played with all his
might around on the strings.

The next sitting bride and Bridegroom and the bride had not even thrown a shawl over her head,
but the crown was shining in the white light snow. Then slide to
slide came with wedding guests.

Maja Lisa recognized the mold of the sexton Moreus, the red sleigh Church chief and - -

She swam before his eyes, and she had to settle on a chair near the
window.

She could not understand what that meant. Why the wedding party drove by Loby here into the
empty parsonage?

But maybe it was just a delusional, which came before it, because it all day had been through
with all their thoughts at the wedding.

Now the train stopped before the porch, she heard it clearly. The door opened, and the whole society
urged enter into the hallway. But she sat there motionless.

Not because she was afraid!

Oh, no, but how miserable it would be worth if they then went out to greet the guests, and then
no one vorfände outside!

Now they were in the hall, and now they tore the kitchen room door wide open.

The musicians forward. Then, with his clerk Moreus Ulla arm. Then the bride and groom Bride of
two leaders with three-armed candelabra light illuminated, and behind
them a whole Troop youth, boys and girls.

When all had entered, listened to Austria in January and fiddling
on his comrade.

The sexton Moreus stood before the pastor's daughter and gave a little speech. He said Britta
Loby have expressly requires that see the pastor's daughter, how beautiful she was as a bride,
she and her Man would want to go alone here, but then he had thought
and the others, the joy was not so great for Mademoiselle Maja Lisa,
if only the bride and not the other wedding would get to see, therefore,
had now all connected, after the wedding feast not to do would have
been sleepy.

The pastor's daughter, since she was a stepmother, always dressed poorly. But it to think they
forgot completely and the wedding guests, because the joy of this
unexpected Come was transfigured her face so that she looked quite
irresistible charming.

Yes, it was quite true what was said by the pastor of Lövdala daughters: they were able to all
people to charm. It was incomprehensible how they made it, but when she Bride embraced and
then the groom and the other hand, expressed as it was all as if now only the right wedding joy dawned.

Yes,
the pastor's daughter was able to throw all their concerns and are
so glad that all other People also thought: "There is nothing better
than to live!

It is not true if It means that life is difficult and sad. Only beautiful it is. "

The pastor's daughter took the bride to see only her bridal crown and her wedding dress to praise,
as all eyes were opened. Previously, she had not noticed how beautiful
she was in their state.

When Maja Lisa then also to the groom turned and thanked him that he had come to Britta was, and also
congratulated him on his wife because he was also a sort of light on, and now he understood that
he not only the largest farm in Lobby, but also the best Farmer's daughter had married.

What she said to Brian, no one could understand, but we saw Brittany
on after that it just was that was what had taken them to all day
happy and be happy.

They had "brought wedding tempter," which were now revealed as Maja
Lisa had also the wedding dinner to try.

And they looked at her well how much she liked everything, but she could not eat before the
others had gone down again.

They could not stay away long, You will understand that it was strange that they had ever been away.

Now
Ulla told Moreus how they had the same slipped away after dinner. The ancients had been sitting
a bit weary and longed for a midday nap.

They would absolutely nothing about the whole thing noticed by the youth and had gone away, but
they must of course go right back as soon as the bride would dance with Maja Lisa.

Then they went out into the hall, and people lined up along the walls to watching the dance. The game
husband Jan Austria agreed to a polka, and the bride danced with the pastor's daughter in
the hall around. But while the two remaining for the first time in the room danced, the pastor's
daughter was scared.

She had not even out of sheer joy in the usual Dance money intended. On the wedding had to
all people, young and old, dancing with the bride, and who always danced with her, was obliged to
give her the "dance of money." But it low Girls did not even have a single coin!

The bride, however, had not forgotten anything.

Over on the table in the corner of the room was the bottle with water and perfume of the bride
shrine with lozenges and raisins, the bride, spices, the bride had to offer after the dance.

Oh,
that was the worst of what had to go through Maja Lisa!

The old ways were not allowed be broken. People would have thought that the bringer of bad luck.

Brittany had to have sensed her fear, however, as they whispered to
her during the dance, Miss Maja Lisa should only do so when they put
something in her hand.

When they unexpectedly Sun overtake, they could obviously not have ready money dance.

The minister's daughter had a pair of gold earrings and a gold brooch, which she by her Mother
had inherited. She would like to Brittany, where one of these two pieces of jewelry, but did
not know if she could.

How it should work if it is the stepmother later came to the ears!

It was not the custom, more than once with the bride to dance about
the room, but the pastor's daughter made while they thought so, twice,
even three times round the hall.

Actually however, it is incorrect to said she was thinking, she was in too much trouble, the
thoughts whirled her the only way through the head.

She danced as slowly as she could, and now she thought of a silver
spoon, the they had received as godfathers.

But if they gave away something very precious, was Raclitza able in the end, the next day to go to
the wedding house and recovered.

"It remains for me no other choice than to say Brian that she would dance her money to another
Times get, "she thought.

But suddenly she started, and after she danced the last part quickly
and cheerfully.

Someone had taken the opportunity when she was dancing over him and her a coin pressed into
his hand.

And lo! When she stopped dancing, she could bare a whole speciedaler in Brittas Hand basket.

The bride was so startled that she forgot altogether to offer her the bride spices, and the pastor's
daughter she must first ask if they should get nothing.

While she then took of the olfactory water, she let her gaze wander
rapidly in the hall, bring out, who had slipped her the speciedaler.

She knew she had received him as if she had just passed the furnace,
then it was probably the large dark man standing over there between
the stove and the cabinet, have been the had helped her.

Now she leaned forward and took some tablets from the tray. At the same time she whispered Bride, she thought
she knew everyone in the village, but the man there over on the barrier
stood, she could not remember absolutely.

The bride replied softly, this was not strange because this man was
not from the village, there was a blacksmith by Henriksberg smelter
in Västmarken, today just come to Loby was to buy hay from her grandfather.

You do not know why he came here was that he did not belong to the
wedding party and was indeed not in the wedding State.

And really - this stranger was not wearing a coat of black sheepskin with a leather belt around
the waist!

The pastor's daughter did not know whether they go to him and to thank should, but at least she
found no opportunity to do so because the company now broke up and
leave.

Maja Lisa thanked everyone for coming, helped them in their coats
into it, went out with them and waved them then from the steps to off.

When she entered it again, but she was frightened a little, as the
large stranger still standing in the middle in the room looked.

But she soon found an explanation of why he was left behind. He probably wanted to know when He
regained the speciedaler he had lent her, could. Who knows, maybe He had taken him from the
money to pay for the administrator of the hay had given him!

Apparently, however, he would have liked nothing denied what he had done. And when the pastor's
daughter insisted, he said that it was not worth the trouble to speak of.

But she could not really answer a whole speciedaler by a stranger.

Therefore, she said, tomorrow they will ask her father for the money and after the wedding house
To send so that he could pay for the hay.

It flew into a kindly smile as bright sunshine on his face.

He told her it just quite so up how she fit best, he had enough money and could do without
the speciedaler.

The pastor's daughter looked at him quizzically.

Oh, he went on, she meant well, he had remained for the money?

Yes, why else?

As he stroked his long lock of hair from her forehead and looked past her toward the opposite
Wall.

"Oh, I do not know it myself," he said.

"Maybe have I want to say something."

The pastor's daughter said nothing and took a step towards the door,
and was impatient.

Now she saw the stranger again with his kind smile.

"I can not understand the others that they are continuing to come here," he said.

This word blushed the pastor's daughter, she made a step toward the door.

"You would not have you here alone, but to take to the dance."

His voice had this one as benevolent a sound that does not get angry Maja Lisa could, and she
turned to him again and laughed.

"Oh, now I do nothing of being alone, for now I'm happy. Go now only well, I'm so glad that my
account no one needs to worry.

"

The Fox Mine

The next morning the long Bengt was early in the morning with a lantern in front of the fox hole
and shone into it. That was strange!

In his whole life he had never a fox hole saw so tanned.

The long Bengt knew that if he was anything in the world, he was able to fix a fox hole. And last night
he had not applied this less time than usual.

He had the upper opening of the deep pit with such a deceitful roof
made of birch rods, Straw and snow provided that it is not even the
cunning of the fox ordinary Ground could have been different, and
the duck on the big tall pole in the middle the pit had to sit, to
lure the fox was, with a rope around the wings, so tightly bound to
the stake, was that she could not move.

It was the best duck on the farm have been, had the strongest voice of all. Bengt had them
in the long the night screaming heard, after she was bound fast to
the pole.

Their misery cries had smoked shrill and ear-ripping through the
winter night.

For those who had directed the Fox mine, it was a great shame if the duck so bad tied, the fox was
that she was carried away with, but this was still a long Bengt never happened. Yes, and what
the fox did, whether he ran away with the duck in the forest or they into the pit hinabriß,
the shame was in both cases the same.

The milkmaid brought the duck caused only very reluctantly. And Bengt knew: if once each one
lost, they mocked him for all eternity every day because he would
have meant that he could to fix a fox hole.

And now his misfortune that had happened! When he hinleuchtete with the lantern in front of
him, he saw that duck was no more at stake, and only it were still the rope ends.

Out of sheer anger Bengt wanted to turn around and have to go his way.

But how, possibly the fox had been caught yet! Again he flashed the lantern around. In several places
the roof had collapsed.

If he could only understand but how This fox had made it to seize as much straw up into the deep!

Bengt
not succeeded until hinabzuleuchten to the bottom of the pit as much as he and the lantern
twisted and turned. As he left the lantern light falling on the snow to look for traces of .
See If two foxes were in the pit, he could better understand why
the roof was so torn, and then it would also not such a great shame
that the duck had been carried away was.

He was actually tracks in the snow and held the lantern close it. Then he bent down to deeper
and deeper. Finally, he took the candle from the lantern, settled on his knees down and shone around
on the floor.

When he straightened up again, he felt that his knees were trembling. Fortunately, he saw No
one at this moment!

Not fast enough he could come to the barn to fetch a rope. When he returned it, he tied the lantern
on it and lowered it down into the pit. Now he was up to the See reason, and suddenly a smile
crossed his face. His eyes were very small and sparkled, and his teeth gleamed between his
parted lips.

Now had he is no longer in a hurry, he was extremely pleased with the opposite face of the pit
are bent.

After a while the long Bengt directed his steps towards the house.

But he took the path not through the kitchen, but increased with massive
steps, the staircase up and went into the hallway.

It was barely five clock, and out of the old housekeeper No one was on. You heard someone grope
for the door handle and stepped closer anxious, to open.

"What in the world, the long Bengt! What is the matter with you, that you through the main entrance
come from? "

But the long Bengt she pushed to the side without so much as a word, and contributed straight
to the bedroom, where the pastor and the pastor's wife still in the
best sleep lay, and opened the door.

"What's up? What's up? "Asked the priest, as he sat up in bed.

"I am one that long Bengt. Reverend, I just wanted to say that the duck tonight from the fox hole
is gone. "

"But this is bad, Bengt. But that's why you had me but not in the
middle of the night - "

"Both of them, the fox and the duck are down
there in the pit."

"I think you're crazy, Bengt! You know that I
only very recently from the wedding I came back, and I had just fallen
asleep first. "

But after the long Bengt had made a suitable pause,
he continued:

"A wolf went to the trail of the fox, and he's down
there in the pit."

Now the priest replied quickly: "Tell me in the
kitchen outside, one should make light here, so I can stand up. "

But
the long Bengt stopped, as if he were deaf.

"A second track of the
first wolf wolf is followed, and which is also in the pit."

Spoke,
turned and went straight out the door.

As it was quite daybreak,
all residents of the court, gathered around the fox hole. Everybody
was there: the pastor and the pastor's wife and the pastor's daughter,
the housekeeper, the five maids who Einliegerin and the little one.
Then the long Bengt and his mother, who Bengta old and Bengts woman
merry Maja, and also the cousin of two boys, the musician Jöns and
the old man back, a soldier who was in the rectory at work.

All stood
in silence to fox pit, all bowed before him, saw a few moments down
and then came back.

The little girl had been somewhat pushed to the
side and did not get nearly to the edge of the pit can. The pastor
noticed it and she beckoned. You should also look down and approaching.

Before,
they would have liked pushed through, but now she could not miss a
step, a cold shiver rippled through her body, she dared not look at
the wolves.

The child had never seen a wolf, but it had to hear them
howl in the woods to Koltorp, and she knew the wolves were the most
terrible monster, they were much worse than Basilisk. 

The pastor
was fresh that morning, as the little girl had ever seen him before.
He grabbed them by the collar of her fur coat and said:

"So, now
I hold you, Nora Whirlwind, hineinfällst so you do not. You've got
to the pit , Look down though you're only a child, so you if you are
old again, the youth can tell that we here at Lövdala in one night,
two wolves and a fox in our mine have caught. "

Now she stood at
the edge of the pit and looked down at last. The pit was a square,
continue with planks clad hole like a fountain, just a lot.

The little
girl looked into it for the big monsters with terrible jaws, in which
such little girl as she could disappear for a bite. But they discovered
they could not; She turned her head back and looked at the priest.

"Look
into the corners," he said.

Once again, she leaned forward. It was
quite dark in the pit, but now they could something different. Four
animals were down there, in every corner of, and all sat motionless
there, only her eyes that she looked up to sunlight and human sparkled.

In
the corner just before her lay the fox, who was no bigger than a sofa
cushion. In the next Corner was an animal as large as a big shaggy
dog. In the third corner was the duck was firm and straight on their
two feet wide, and the fourth corner with one out of the big shaggy
dogs.

The perfect silence was very strange and scary down there,
and the little girl behaved is also silent as all the others, as they
stepped back from the edge of the pit.

When all had looked down sufficiently,
came up the men, to consult. The Wolves had indeed killed, but they
did not know how to accomplish it.

Of course it would have been easy
to shoot them, but when blood flowed into the pit, this was useless,
then you could never catch an animal in it.

If it is otherwise is
only a fox, a man jumped into the pit, "said the fox a blow to the
head that he lost consciousness, laid him then a loop round the waist
up and let him go.

If you jumped to a fox, no danger was there, but
if two live wolves were in the pit, that was a completely different
matter.

The long Bengt took the stick, which he used when he said
the fox the blow, with whom he made him unconscious. He stepped to
the edge of the pit, looked down, shook the head and then went back
to the others.

Now one of the servants took a rope and tied a racing
animal snare. presented with this he is the pit and let the loop down
tight before a wolf. If he succeeded, to graze the noose over the
head of the wolf, the latter could be pulled up easily.

The noose
fell down deeper and deeper, so they came up on the nose of the wolf,
without that this move. But suddenly he drove with his head, cried
aloud once, two Teeth gleamed, and the noose was bitten on the bottom
of the pit.

All hearts began to beat anxiously, as they saw it. No,
it was not enjoyable, be involved with an animal that could bite through
a rope with a snapper. But there is one thing
which we can judge, and that is that though his course appears to be in a straight line, it
is most probably only a part of a great curve so huge that the little bit we know seems straight.

When we speak of the stars, we ought to keep quite clearly in our minds the fact that they
lie at such an incredible distance from us that it is probable we shall never learn a great
deal about them. Why, men have not even yet been able to communicate with the planet Mars,
at its nearest only some thirty-five million miles from us, and this is a mere nothing in measuring
the space between us and the stars. To express the distances of the stars in figures is really
a waste of time, so astronomers have invented another way. You know that light can go round
the world eight times in a second; that is a speed quite beyond our comprehension, but we just
accept it. Then think what a distance it could travel in an hour, in a day; and what about
a year? The distance that light can travel in a year is taken as a convenient measure by astronomers
for sounding the depths of space. Measured in this way light takes four years and four months
to reach us from the nearest star we know of, and there are others so much more distant that
hundreds--nay, thousands--of years would have to be used to convey it. Light which has been
travelling along with a velocity quite beyond thought, silently, unresting, from the time when
the Britons lived and ran half naked on this island of ours, has only reached us now, and there
is no limit to the time we may go back in our imaginings. We see the stars, not as they are,
but as they were. If some gigantic conflagration had happened a hundred years ago in one of
them situated a hundred light-years away from us, only now would that messenger, swifter than
any messenger we know, have brought the news of it to us. To put the matter in figures, we
are sure that no star can lie nearer to us than twenty-five billions of miles. A billion is
a million millions, and is represented by a figure with twelve noughts behind it, so--1,000,000,000,000;
and twenty-five such billions is the least distance within which any star can lie. How much
farther away stars may be we know not, but it is something to have found out even that. On
the same scale as that we took in our first example, we might express it thus: If the earth
were a greengage plum at a distance of about three hundred of your steps from the sun, and
Neptune were, on the same scale, about three miles away, the nearest fixed star could not be
nearer than the distance measured round the whole earth at the Equator!

All this must provoke the question, How can anyone find out these things? Well, for a long
time the problem of the distances of the stars was thought to be too difficult for anyone to
attempt to solve it, but at last an ingenious method was devised, a method which shows once
more the triumph of man's mind over difficulties. In practice this method is extremely difficult
to carry out, for it is complicated by so many other things which must be made allowance for;
but in theory, roughly explained, it is not too hard for anyone to grasp. The way of it is
this: If you hold up your finger so as to cover exactly some object a few feet distant from
you, and shut first one eye and then the other, you will find that the finger has apparently
shifted very considerably against the background. The finger has not really moved, but as seen
from one eye or the other, it is thrown on a different part of the background, and so appears
to jump; then if you draw two imaginary lines, one from each eye to the finger, and another
between the two eyes, you will have made a triangle. Now, all of you who have done a little
Euclid know that if you can ascertain the length of one side of a triangle, and the angles
at each end of it, you can form the rest of the triangle; that is to say, you can tell the
length of the other two sides. In this instance the base line, as it is called--that is to
say the line lying between the two eyes--can easily be measured, and the angles at each end
can be found by an instrument called a sextant, so that by simple calculation anyone could
find out what distance the finger was from the eye. Now, some ingenious man decided to apply
this method to the stars. He knew that it is only objects quite near to us that will appear
to shift with so small a base line as that between the eyes, and that the further away anything
is the longer must the base line be before it makes any difference. But this clever man thought
that if he could only get a base line long enough he could easily compute the distance of the
stars from the amount that they appeared to shift against their background. He knew that the
longest base line he could get on earth would be about eight thousand miles, as that is the
diameter of the earth from one side to the other; so he carefully observed a star from one
end of this immense base line and then from the other, quite confident that this plan would
answer. But what happened? After careful observations he discovered that no star moved at all
with this base line, and that it must be ever so much longer in order to make any impression.
Then indeed the case seemed hopeless, for here we are tied to the earth and we cannot get away
into space. But the astronomer was nothing daunted. He knew that in its journey round the sun
the earth travels in an orbit which measures about one hundred and eighty-five millions of
miles across, so he resolved to take observations of the stars when the earth was at one side
of this great circle, and again, six months later, when she had travelled to the other side.
Then indeed he would have a magnificent base line, one of one hundred and eighty-five millions
of miles in length. What was the result? Even with this mighty line the stars are found to
be so distant that many do not move at all, not even when measured with the finest instruments,
and others move, it may be, the breadth of a hair at a distance of several feet! But even this
delicate measure, a hair's-breadth, tells its own tale; it lays down a limit of twenty-five
billion miles within which no star can lie!

This system which I have explained to you is called finding the star's parallax, and perhaps
it is easier to understand when we put it the other way round and say that the hair's-breadth
is what the whole orbit of the earth would appear to have shrunk to if it were seen from the
distance of these stars!

Many, many stars have now been examined, and of them all our nearest neighbour seems to be
a bright star seen in the Southern Hemisphere. It is in the constellation or star group called
Centaurus, and is the brightest star in it. In order to designate the stars when it is necessary
to refer to them, astronomers have invented a system. To only the very brightest are proper
names attached; others are noted according to the degree of their brightness, and called after
the letters of the Greek alphabet: alpha, beta, gamma, delta, etc. Our own word 'alphabet'
comes, you know, from the first two letters of this Greek series. As this particular star is
the brightest in the constellation Centaurus, it is called Alpha Centauri; and if ever you
travel into the Southern Hemisphere and see it, you may greet it as our nearest neighbour in
the starry universe, so far as we know at present.

CHAPTER XI

THE CONSTELLATIONS

From the very earliest times men have watched the stars, felt their mysterious influence, tried
to discover what they were, and noted their rising and setting. They classified them into groups,
called constellations, and gave such groups the names of figures and animals, according to
the positions of the stars composing them. Some of these imaginary figures seem to us so wildly
ridiculous that we cannot conceive how anyone could have gone so far out of their way as to
invent them. But they have been long sanctioned by custom, so now, though we find it difficult
to recognize in scattered groups of stars any likeness to a fish or a ram or a bear; we still
call the constellations by their old names for convenience in referring to them.

Supposing the axis of the earth were quite upright, straight up and down in regard to the plane
at which the earth goes round the sun, then we should always see the same set of stars from
the Northern and the same set of stars from the Southern Hemispheres all the year round. But
as the axis is tilted slightly, we can, during our nights in the winter in the Northern Hemisphere,
see more of the sky to the south than we can in the summer; and in the Southern Hemisphere
just the reverse is the case, far more stars to the north can be seen in the winter than in
the summer. But always, whether it is winter or summer, there is one fixed point in each hemisphere
round which all the other stars seem to swing, and this is the point immediately over the North
or the South Poles. There is, luckily, a bright star almost at the point at which the North
Pole would seem to strike the sky were it infinitely lengthened. This is not one of the brightest
stars in the sky, but quite bright enough to serve the purpose, and if we stand with our faces
towards it, we can be sure we are looking due north. How can we discover this star for ourselves
in the sky? Go out on any starlight night when the sky is clear, and see if you can find a
very conspicuous set of seven stars called the Great Bear. I shall not describe the Great Bear,
because every child ought to know it already, and if they don't, they can ask the first grown-up
person they meet, and they will certainly be told. (See map.)

Having found the Great Bear, you have only to draw an imaginary line between the two last stars
forming the square on the side away from the tail, and carry it on about three times as far
as the distance between those two stars, and you will come straight to the Pole Star. The two
stars in the Great Bear which help one to find it are called the Pointers, because they point
to it.

The Great Bear is one of the constellations known from the oldest times; it is also sometimes
called Charles's Wain, the Dipper, or the Plough. It is always easily seen in England, and
seems to swing round the Pole Star as if held by an invisible rope tied to the Pointers. Besides
the Great Bear there is, not far from it, the Little Bear, which is really very like it, only
smaller and harder to find. The Pole Star is the last star in its tail; from it two small stars
lead away parallel to the Great Bear, and they bring the eye to a small pair which form one
side of a square just like that in the Great Bear. But the whole of the Little Bear is turned
the opposite way from the Great Bear, and the tail points in the opposite direction. And when
you come to think of it, it is very ridiculous to have called these groups Bears at all, or
to talk about tails, for bears have no tails! So it would have been better to have called them
foxes or dogs, or almost any other animal rather than bears.

Now, if you look at the sky on the opposite side of the Pole Star from the Great Bear, you
will see a clearly marked capital W made up of five or six bright stars. This is called Cassiopeia,
or the Lady's Chair.

In looking at Cassiopeia you cannot help noticing that there is a zone or broad band of very
many stars, some exceedingly small, which apparently runs right across the sky like a ragged
hoop, and Cassiopeia seems to be set in or on it. This band is called the Milky Way, and crosses
not only our northern sky, but the southern sky too, thus making a broad girdle round the whole
universe. It is very wonderful, and no one has yet been able to explain it. The belt is not
uniform and even, but it is here and there broken up into streamers and chips, having the same
appearance as a piece of ribbon which has been snipped about by scissors in pure mischief;
or it may be compared to a great river broken up into many channels by rocks and obstacles
in its course.

The Milky Way is mainly made up of thousands and thousands of small stars, and many more are
revealed by the telescope; but, as we see in Cassiopeia, there are large bright stars in it
too, though, of course, these may be infinitely nearer to us, and may only appear to us to
be in the Milky Way because they are between us and it.

Now, besides the few constellations that I have mentioned, there are numbers of others, some
of which are difficult to discover, as they contain no bright stars. But there are certain
constellations which every one should know, because in them may be found some of the brightest
stars, those of the first magnitude. Magnitude means size, and it is really absurd for us to
say a star is of the first magnitude simply because it appears to us to be large, for, as I
have explained already, a small star comparatively near to us might appear larger than a greater
one further away. But the word 'magnitude' was used when men really thought stars were large
or small according to their appearance, and so it is used to this day. They called the biggest
and brightest first magnitude stars. Of these there are not many, only some twenty, in all
the sky. The next brightest--about the brightness of the Pole Star and the stars in the Great
Bear--are of the second magnitude, and so on, each magnitude containing stars less and less
bright. When we come to stars of the sixth magnitude we have reached the limit of our sight,
for seventh magnitude stars can only be seen with a telescope. Now that we understand what
is meant by the magnitude, we can go back to the constellations and try to find some more.

If you draw an imaginary line across the two stars forming the backbone of the Bear, starting
from the end nearest the tail, and continue it onward for a good distance, you will come to
a very bright star called Capella, which you will know, because near it are three little ones
in a triangle. Now, Capella means a goat, so the small ones are called the kids. In winter
Capella gets high up into the sky, and then there is to be seen below her a little cluster
called the Pleiades. There is nothing else like this in the whole sky. It is formed of six
stars, as it appears to persons of ordinary sight, and these stars are of the sixth magnitude,
the lowest that can be seen by the naked eye. But though small, they are set so close together,
and appear so brilliant, twinkling like diamonds, that they are one of the most noticeable
objects in the heavens. A legend tells that there were once seven stars in the Pleiades clearly
visible, and that one has now disappeared. This is sometimes spoken of as 'the lost Pleiad,'
but there does not seem to be any foundation for the story. In old days people attached particular
holiness or luck to the number seven, and possibly, when they found that there were only six
stars in this wonderful group, they invented the story about the seventh.

As the Pleiades rise, a beautiful reddish star of the first magnitude rises beneath them. It
is called Aldebaran, and it, as well as the Pleiades, forms a part of the constellation of
Taurus the bull. In England we can see in winter below Aldebaran the whole of the constellation
of Orion, one of the finest of all the constellations, both for the number of the bright stars
it contains and for the extent of the sky it covers. Four bright stars at wide distances enclose
an irregular four-sided space in which are set three others close together and slanting downwards.
Below these, again, are another three which seem to fall from them, but are not so bright.
The figure of Orion as drawn in the old representations of the constellations is a very magnificent
one. The three bright stars form his belt, and the three smaller ones the hilt of his sword
hanging from it.

If you draw an imaginary line through the stars forming the belt and prolong it downwards slantingly,
you will see, in the very height of winter, the brightest star in all the sky, either in the
Northern or Southern Hemisphere. This is Sirius, who stands in a class quite by himself, for
he is many times brighter than any other first magnitude star. He never rises very high above
the horizon here, but on crisp, frosty nights may be seen gleaming like a big diamond between
the leafless twigs and boughs of the rime-encrusted trees. Sirius is the Dog Star, and it is
perhaps fortunate that, as he is placed, he can be seen sometimes in the southern and sometimes
in the northern skies, so that many more people have a chance of looking at his wonderful brilliancy,
than if he had been placed near the Pole star. In speaking of the supreme brightness of Sirius
among the stars, we must remember that Venus and Jupiter, which outrival him, are not stars,
but planets, and that they are much nearer to us. Sirius is so distant that the measures for
parallax make hardly any impression on him, but, by repeated experiments, it has now been proved
that light takes more than eight years to travel from him to us. So that, if you are eight
years old, you are looking at Sirius as he was when you were a baby!

Not far from the Pleiades, to the left as you face them, are to be found two bright stars nearly
the same size; these are the Heavenly Twins, or Gemini.

Returning now to the Great Bear, we find, if we draw a line through the middle and last stars
of his tail, and carry it on for a little distance, we come fairly near to a cluster of stars
in the form of a horseshoe; there is only one fairly bright one in it, and some of the others
are quite small, but yet the horseshoe is distinct and very beautiful to look at. This is the
Northern Crown. The very bright star not far from it is another first-class star called Arcturus.

To the left of the Northern Crown lies Hercules, which is only mentioned because near it is
the point to which the sun with all his system appears at present to be speeding.

For other fascinating constellations, such as Leo or the Lion, Andromeda and Perseus, and the
three bright stars by which we recognize Aquila the Eagle, you must wait awhile, unless you
can get some one to point them out.

Those which you have noted already are enough to lead you on to search for more.

Perhaps some of you who live in towns and can see only a little strip of sky from the nursery
or schoolroom windows have already found this chapter dull, and if so you may skip the rest
of it and go on to the next. For the others, however, there is one more thing to know before
leaving the subject, and that is the names of the string of constellations forming what is
called the Zodiac. It is very difficult to explain the Zodiac, but I must try. Imagine for
a moment the earth moving round its orbit with the sun in the middle. Now, as the earth moves
the sun will be seen continually against a different background--that is to say, he will appear
to us to move not only across our sky in a day by reason of our rotation, but also along the
sky, changing his position among the stars by reason of our revolution. You will say at once
that we cannot see the stars when the sun is there, and no more we can. But the stars are there
all the same, and every month the sun seems to have moved on into a new constellation, according
to astronomers' reckoning. If you count up the names of the constellations in the rhyme, you
will find that there are just twelve, one for each month, and at the end of the year the sun
has come round to the first one again. The first one is Aries the Ram, and the sun is seen
projected or thrown against that part of the sky where Aries is, in April, when we begin spring;
this is the first month to astronomers, and not January, as you might suppose. Perhaps you
will learn to recognize all the constellations in the Zodiac one day; a few of them, such as
the Bull and the Heavenly Twins, you know already if you have followed this chapter.

CHAPTER XII

WHAT THE STARS ARE MADE OF

How can we possibly tell what the stars are made of? If we think of the vast oceans of space
lying between them and us, and realize that we can never cross those oceans, for in them there
is no air, it would seem to be a hopeless task to find out anything about the stars at all.
But even though we cannot traverse space ourselves, there is a messenger that can, a messenger
that needs no air to sustain him, that moves more swiftly than our feeble minds can comprehend,
and this messenger brings us tidings of the stars--his name is Light. Light tells us many marvellous
things, and not the least marvellous is the news he gives us of the workings of another force,
the force of gravitation. In some ways gravitation is perhaps more wonderful than light, for
though light speeds across airless space, it is stopped at once by any opaque substance--that
is to say, any substance not transparent, as you know very well by your own shadows, which
are caused by your bodies stopping the light of the sun. Light striking on one side of the
earth does not penetrate through to the other, whereas gravitation does. You remember, of course,
what the force of gravitation is, for we read about that very early in this book. It is a mysterious
attraction existing between all matter. Every atom pulls every other atom towards itself, more
or less strongly according to distance. Now, solid matter itself makes no difference to the
force of gravitation, which acts through it as though it were not there. The sun is pulling
the earth toward itself, and it pulls the atoms on the far side of the earth just as strongly
as it would if there were nothing lying between it and them. Therefore, unlike light, gravitation
takes no heed of obstacles in the way, but acts in spite of them. The gravitation of the earth
holds you down just the same, though you are on the upper floor of a house, with many layers
of wood and plaster between you and it. It cannot pull you down, for the floor holds you up,
but it is gravitation that keeps your feet on the ground all the same. A clever man made up
a story about some one who invented a kind of stuff which stopped the force of gravitation
going through it, just as a solid body stops light; when this stuff was made, of course, it
went right away off into space, carrying with it anyone who stood on it, as there was nothing
to hold it to the earth! That was only a story, and it is not likely anyone could invent such
stuff, but it serves to make clear the working of gravitation. These two tireless forces, light
and gravitation, run throughout the whole universe, and carry messages of tremendous importance
for those who have minds to grasp them. Without light we could know nothing of these distant
worlds, and without understanding the laws of gravity we should not be able to interpret much
that light tells us.

To begin with light, what can we learn from it? We turn at once to our own great light-giver,
the sun, to whom we owe not only all life, but also all the colour and beauty on earth. It
is well known to men of science that colour lies in the light itself, and not in any particular
object. That brilliant blue cloak of yours is not blue of itself, but because of the light
that falls on it. If you cannot believe this, go into a room lighted only by gas, and hey,
presto! the colour is changed as if it were a conjuring trick. You cannot tell now by looking
at the cloak whether it is blue or green! Therefore you must admit that as the colour changes
with the change of light it must be due to light, and not to any quality belonging to the material
of the cloak. But, you may protest, if the colour is solely due to light, and light falls on
everything alike, why are there so many colours? That is a very fair question. If the light
that comes from the sun were of only one colour--say blue or red--then everything would be
blue or red all the world over. Some doors in houses are made with a strip of red or blue glass
running down the sides. If you have one in your house like that, go and look through it, and
you will see an astonishing world made up of different tones of the same colour. Everything
is red or blue, according to the colour of the glass, and the only difference in the appearance
of objects lies in the different shades, whether things are light or dark. This is a world
as it might appear if the sun's rays were only blue or only red. But the sun's light is not
of one colour only, fortunately for us; it is of all the colours mixed together, which, seen
in a mass, make the effect of white light. Now, objects on earth are only either seen by the
reflected light of the sun or by some artificial light. They have no light of their own. Put
them in the dark and they do not shine at all; you cannot see them. It is the sun's light striking
on them that makes them visible. But all objects do not reflect the light equally, and this
is because they have the power of absorbing some of the rays that strike on them and not giving
them back at all, and only those rays that are given back show to the eye. A white thing gives
back all the rays, and so looks white, for we have the whole of the sun's light returned to
us again. But how about a blue thing? It absorbs all the rays except the blue, so that the
blue rays are the only ones that come back or rebound from it again to meet our eyes, and this
makes us see the object blue; and this is the case with all the other colours. A red object
retains all rays except the red, which it sends back to us; a yellow object gives back only
the yellow rays, and so on. What an extraordinary and mysterious fact! Imagine a brilliant
flower-garden in autumn. Here we have tall yellow sunflowers with velvety brown centres, clustering
pink and crimson hollyhocks, deep red and bright yellow peonies, slender fairy-like Japanese
anemones, great bunches of mauve Michaelmas daisies, and countless others, and mingled with
all these are many shades of green. Yet it is the light of the sun alone that falling on all
these varied objects, makes that glorious blaze of colour; it seems incredible. It may be difficult
to believe, but it is true beyond all doubt. Each delicate velvety petal has some quality in
it which causes it to absorb certain of the sun's rays and send back the others, and its colour
is determined by those it sends back.

Well then how infinitely varied must be the colours hidden in the sun's light, colours which,
mixed all together, make white light! Yes, this is so, for all colours that we know are to
be found there. In fact, the colours that make up sunlight are the colours to be seen in the
rainbow, and they run in the same order. Have you ever looked carefully at a rainbow? If not,
do so at the next chance. You will see it begins by being dark blue at one end, and passes
through all colours until it gets to red at the other.

We cannot see a rainbow every day just when we want to, but we can see miniature rainbows which
contain just the same colours as the real ones in a number of things any time the sun shines.
For instance, in the cut-glass edge of an inkstand or a decanter, or in one of those old-fashioned
hanging pieces of cut-glass that dangle from the chandelier or candle-brackets. Of course you
have often seen these colours reflected on the wall, and tried to get them to shine upon your
face. Or you have caught sight of a brilliant patch of colour on the wall and looked around
to see what caused it, finally tracing it to some thick edge of shining glass standing in the
sunlight. Now, the cut-glass edge shows these colours to you because it breaks up the light
that falls upon it into the colours it is made of, and lets each one come out separately, so
that they form a band of bright colours instead of just one ray of white light.

This is perhaps a little difficult to understand, but I will try to explain. When a ray of
white light falls on such a piece of glass, which is known as a prism, it goes in as white
light at one side, but the three-cornered shape of the glass breaks it up into the colours
it is made of, and each colour comes out separately at the other side--namely, from blue to
red--like a little rainbow, and instead of one ray of white light, we have a broad band of
all the colours that light is made of.

Who would ever have thought a pretty plaything like this could have told us what we so much
wanted to know--namely, what the sun and the stars are made of? It seems too marvellous to
be true, yet true it is that for ages and ages light has been carrying its silent messages
to our eyes, and only recently men have learnt to interpret them. It is as if some telegraph
operator had been going steadily on, click, click, click, for years and years, and no one had
noticed him until someone learnt the code of dot and dash in which he worked, and then all
at once what he was saying became clear. The chief instrument in translating the message that
the light brings is simply a prism, a three-cornered wedge of glass, just the same as those
hanging lustres belonging to the chandeliers. When a piece of glass like this is fixed in a
telescope in such a way that the sun's rays fall on it, then there is thrown on to a piece
of paper or any other suitable background a broad coloured band of lovely light like a little
rainbow, and this is called the sun's spectrum, and the instrument by which it is seen is called
a spectroscope. But this in itself could tell us little; the message it brings lies in the
fact that when it has passed through the telescope, so that it is magnified, it is crossed
by hundreds of minute black lines, not placed evenly at all, but scattered up and down. There
may be two so close together that they look like one, and then three far apart, and then some
more at different distances. When this remarkable appearance was examined carefully it was
found that in sunlight the lines that appeared were always exactly the same, in the same places,
and this seemed so curious that men began to seek for an explanation.

Someone thought of an experiment which might teach us something about the matter, and instead
of letting sunlight fall on the prism, he made an artificial light by burning some stuff called
sodium, and then allowed the band of coloured light to pass through the telescope; when he
examined the spectrum that resulted, he found that, though numbers of lines to be found in
the sun's spectrum were missing, there were a few lines here exactly matching a few of the
lines in the sun's spectrum; and this could not be the result of chance only, for the lines
are so mathematically exact, and are in themselves so peculiarly distributed, that it could
only mean that they were due to the same cause. What could this signify, then, but that away
up there in the sun, among other things, stuff called sodium, very well known to chemists on
earth, is burning? After this many other substances were heated white-hot so as to give out
light, in order to discover if the lines to be seen in their spectra were also to be found
in the sun's spectrum. One of these was iron, and, astonishing to say, all the many little
thread-like lines that appeared in its spectrum were reproduced to a hair's-breadth, among
others, in the sun's spectrum. So we have found out beyond all possibility of doubt some of
the materials of which the sun is made. We know that iron, sodium, hydrogen, and numerous other
substances and elements, are all burning away there in a terrific furnace, to which any furnace
we have on earth is but as the flicker of a match.

It was not, of course, much use applying this method to the planets, for we know that the light
which comes from them to us is only reflected sunlight, and this, indeed, was proved by means
of the spectroscope. But the stars shine by their own light, and this opened up a wide field
for inquiry. The difficulty was, of course, to get the light of one star separated from all
the rest, because the light of one star is very faint and feeble to cast a spectrum at all.
Yet by infinite patience difficulties were overcome. One star alone was allowed to throw its
light into the telescope; the light passed through a prism, and showed a faint band of many
colours, with the expected little black lines cutting across it more or less thickly. Examinations
have thus been made of hundreds of stars. In the course of them some substances as yet unknown
to us on earth have been encountered, and in some stars one element--hydrogen--is much stronger
than in others; but, on the whole, speaking broadly, it has been satisfactorily shown that
the stars are made on the same principles as our own sun, so that the reasoning of astronomers
which had argued them to be suns was proved.

We have here in the picture the spectrum of the sun and the spectrum of Arcturus. You can see
that the lines which appear in the band of light belonging to Sirius are also in the band of
light belonging to the sun, together with many others. This means that the substances flaming
out and sending us light from the far away star are also giving out light from our own sun,
and that the sun and Sirius both contain the same elements in their compositions.

This, indeed, seems enough for the spectroscope to have accomplished; it has interpreted for
us the message light brings from the stars, so that we know beyond all possibility of mistake
that these glowing, twinkling points of light are brilliant suns in a state of intense heat,
and that in them are burning elements with which we ourselves are quite familiar. But when
the spectroscope had done that, its work was not finished, for it has not only told us what
the stars are made of, but another thing which we could never have known without it--namely,
if they are moving toward us or going away from us.

CHAPTER XIII

RESTLESS STARS

You remember we have already remarked upon the difficulty of telling how far one star lies
behind another, as we do not know their sizes. It is, to take another similar case, easy enough
to tell if a star moves to one side or the other, but very difficult by ordinary observation
to tell if it is advancing toward us or running away from us, for the only means we have of
judging is if it gets larger or smaller, and at that enormous distance the fact whether it
advances or recedes makes no difference in its size. Now, the spectroscope has changed all
this, and we can tell quite as certainly if a star is coming toward us as we can if it moves
to one side. I will try to explain this. You know, perhaps, that sound is caused by vibration
in the air. The noise, whatever it is, jars the air and the vibrations strike on our ears.
It is rather the same thing as the result of throwing a stone into a pond: from the centre
of the splash little wavelets run out in ever-widening circles; so through the air run ever-widening
vibrations from every sound. The more vibrations there are in a second the shriller is the
note they make. In a high note the air-vibrations follow one another fast, pouring into one's
ear at a terrific speed, so that the apparatus in the ear which receives them itself vibrates
fiercely and records a high note, while a lower note brings fewer and slower vibrations in
a second, and the ear is not so much disturbed. Have you ever noticed that if a railway engine
is sweeping-toward you and screaming all the time, its note seems to get shriller and shriller?
That is because the engine, in advancing, sends the vibrations out nearer to you, so more of
them come in a second, and thus they are crowded up closer together, and are higher and higher.

Now, light is also caused by waves, but they are not the same as sound waves. Light travels
without air, whereas sound we know cannot travel without air, and is ever so much slower, and
altogether a grosser, clumsier thing than light. But yet the waves or rays which make light
correspond in some ways to the vibrations of sound. What corresponds to the treble on the piano
is the blue end of the spectrum in light, and the bass is the red end. Now, when we are looking
at the spectrum of any body which is advancing swiftly toward us, something of the same effect
is observed as in the case of the shrieking engine. Take any star and imagine that that star
is hastening toward us at a pace of three hundred miles a second, which is not at all an unusual
rate for a star; then, if we examine the band of light, the spectrum, of such a star, we shall
observe an extraordinary fact--all these little lines we have spoken of are shoved up toward
the treble or blue end of the spectrum. They still remain just the same distances from each
other, and are in twos and threes or single, so that the whole set of lines is unaltered as
a set, but everyone of them is shifted a tiny fraction up toward the blue end of the spectrum,
just a little displaced. Now if, instead of advancing toward us, this same star had been rushing
away from us at a similar pace, all these lines would have been moved a tiny bit toward the
red or bass end of the spectrum. This is known to be certainly true, so that by means of the
spectroscope we can tell that some of these great sun-stars are advancing toward us and some
receding from us, according to whether the multitudes of little lines in the spectrum are shifted
slightly to the blue or the red end.

You remember that it has been surmised that the pace the sun moves with his system is about
twelve miles a second. This seems fast enough to us, who think that one mile a minute is good
time for an express train, but it is slow compared with the pace of many of the stars. As I
have said, some are travelling at a rate of between two hundred and three hundred miles a second;
and it is due to the spectroscope that we know not only whether a star is advancing toward
us or receding from us, but also whether the pace is great or not; it even tells us what the
pace is, up to about half a mile a second, which is very marvellous. It is a curious fact that
many of the small stars show greater movement than the large ones, which mayor may not mean
that they are nearer to us.

It may be taken as established that there is no such thing as absolute rest in the universe:
everything, stars and nebulæ alike, are moving somewhere; in an infinite variety of directions,
with an infinite variety of speed they hasten this way and that. It would be impossible for
any to remain still, for even supposing it had been so 'in the beginning,' the vast forces
at work in the universe would not let it remain so. Out of space would come the persistent
call of gravitation: atoms would cry silently to atoms. There could be no perfect equality
of pull on all sides; from one side or another the pull would be the stronger. Slowly the inert
mass would obey and begin falling toward it; it might be an inch at a time, but with rapid
increase, until at last it also was hastening some whither in this universe which appears to
us to be infinite.

It must be remembered that these stars, even when moving at an enormous pace, do not change
their places in the sky when regarded by ordinary observers. It would take thousands of years
for any of the constellations to appear at all different from what they are now, even though
the stars that compose them are moving in different directions with a great velocity, for a
space of many millions of miles, at the distance of most of the stars, would be but as the
breadth of a fine hair as seen by us on earth. So thousands of years ago men looked up at the
Great Bear, and saw it apparently the same as we see it now; yet for all that length of time
the stars composing it have been rushing in this direction and that at an enormous speed, but
do not appear to us on the earth to alter their positions in regard to each other. I know of
nothing that gives one a more overwhelming sense of the mightiness of the universe and the
smallness of ourselves than this fact. From age to age men look on changeless heavens, yet
this apparently stable universe is fuller of flux and reflux than is the restless ocean itself,
and the very wavelets on the sea are not more numerous nor more restless than the stars that
bestrew the sky.

CHAPTER XIV

THE COLOURS OF THE STARS

Has it ever occurred to you that the stars are not all of the same colour? It is true that,
just glancing at them casually, you might say they are all white; but if you examine them more
carefully you cannot help seeing that some shine with a steely blue light, while others are
reddish or yellowish. These colours are not easy to distinguish with the naked eye, and might
not attract any attention at all unless they were pointed out; yet when attention is drawn
to the fact, it is impossible to deny the redness of some, such as Aldebaran. But though we
may admit this, we might add that the colours are so very faint and inconspicuous, that they
might be, after all, only the result of imagination.

To prove that the colours are constant and real we must use a telescope, and then we need have
no further doubt of their reality, for instead of disappearing, the colours of some stars stand
out quite vividly beyond the possibility of mistake. Red stars are a bright red, and they are
the most easily seen of all, though the other colours, blue and yellow and green, are seen
very decidedly by some people. The red stars have been described by various observers as resembling
'a drop of blood on a black field,' 'most magnificent copper-red,' 'most intense blood-red,'
and 'glowing like a live coal out of the darkness of space.' Some people see them as a shining
red, like that of a glowing cloud at sunset. Therefore there can be no doubt that the colours
are genuine enough, and are telling us some message. This message we are able to read, for
we have begun to understand the language the stars speak to us by their light since the invention
of the spectroscope. The spectroscope tells us that these colours indicate different stages
in the development of the stars, or differences of constitution--that is to say, in the elements
of which they are made. Our own sun is a yellow star, and other yellow stars are akin to him;
while red and blue and green stars contain different elements, or elements in different proportions.

Stars do not always remain the same colours for an indefinite time; one star may change slowly
from yellow to white, and another from red to yellow; and there are instances of notable changes,
such as that of the brilliant white Sirius, who was stated in old times by many different observers
to be a red star. All this makes us think, and year by year thought leads us on to knowledge,
and knowledge about these distant suns increases. But though we know a good deal now, there
are still many questions we should like to ask which we cannot expect to have answered for
a long time yet, if ever.

The star colours have some meanings which we cannot even guess; we can only notice the facts
regarding them. For instance, blue stars are never known to be solitary--they always have a
companion, but why this should be so passes our comprehension. What is it in the constitution
of a blue star which holds or attracts another? Whatever it may be, it is established by repeated
instances that blue stars do not stand alone. In the constellation of Cygnus there are two
stars, a blue and a yellow one, which are near enough to each other to be seen in the same
telescope at the same time, and yet in reality are separated by an almost incredible number
of billions of miles. But as we know that a blue star is never seen alone, and that it has
often as its companion a yellowish or reddish star, it is probable that these two, situated
at an enormous distance from one another, are yet in some mysterious way dependent on each
other, and are not merely seen together because they happen to fall in the same field of view. The same maximum E'en then be prevent
  those with means to know you in such circumstances deem proper, useful,
  and is cheap.

I leave here in this beautiful and highly practical works praise the cheap talk, which he is
not candid reader can fail. For the author's fame (the the research-based grateful posterity
with reverence of his ashes in the eternal years inside pay is) is already so large that it
is not derogatory by my compliments well much has been overgrown. Learned of the translator
to conceal but I did, because it I do not, for unknown reasons is allowed to call him. He is
by a great work, with which it has many useful insights and sciences from antiquity to oblivion torn,
has become sufficiently well known to scholars, and will be up to immortality, by an even greater
work to which all lovers of fine muses with zeal has really . Pränumeriren

In the same year 1756. in the October month of this work from the French was also in the Italian
übersetzet, bereichet with learned notes by the translator, and Rovereid been printed. This
translation leadeth the title considerazione intorno alla pretesa + Magia + Postuma Presentata
al supremo Direttorio di Vienna dal Signor Barone Gerardo Van Swieten Archiatro delle Cesaree Majesty,
e della loro Prefetto Bibliotheca. Dal Francese nell'Italiano recata con annotazioni del traduttore.
Roveredo ai 26th Ottobre 1756th

The Waelsch comments I will translate into German. The German himself but little work I will
faithfully deliver the way it flowed from the pen of the learned the translator is. That I saw
the title: = Notes on the specified witchcraft of the Dead =, which Bring out the French have
both an Italian magazine, is not retained, so happen because I just wanted to follow in this
play the German translator, the his work drew the name = = vampirism.

The superstition of vampirism is Latin Magia Posthuma + +, or witchcraft of the Dead, so named. =
= But the vampires are dead people who sometimes later, sometimes more get up from the grave,
appear to humans, the blood sucking, ungestümm at the front door To bring knocking noise in the
house, and often even to cause death. On whose account then a lot of Imperial. royal. been sharp commands
in all dominions ausgeschicket, But this adventure of faith to set limits, like only among barbarians,
ignorant, or are found wicked. In all other countries, these adverse christcatholischen Views
known. Only in Hungary, Moravia and Silesia Pohlen it finds its followers. The Earlier this
evil like his reason well without doubt in the schismatic Greek Have simplicity, which believes
that the devil takes hold of the soul the body of man could.

          
             
                 Besides this short memory I know my readers
                               nothing more to say than that I agree with his Kindness and friendship
respectfully recommending. By the most minute and careful measurements,
by the use of the spectroscope, and by every resource known to science, astronomers have, indeed,
actually found out with a near approach to exactness how far some of these great suns lie from
each other, and how large they are in comparison with one another.

The very first double star ever discovered was one which you have already seen, the middle
one in the tail of the Great Bear. If you look at it you will be delighted to find that you
can see a wee star close to it, and you will think you are looking at an example of a double
star with your very own eyes; but you will be wrong, for that wee star is separated by untold
distances from the large one to which it seems so near. In fact, any stars which can be seen
to be separate by the naked eye must lie immeasurably far apart, however tiny seems the space
between them. Such stars may possibly have some connexion with each other, but, at any rate
in this case, such a connexion has not been proved. No, the larger star itself is made up of
two others, which can only be seen apart in a telescope. Since this discovery double stars
have been plentifully found in every part of the sky. The average space between such double
stars as seen from our earth is--what do you think? It is the width of a single hair held up
thirty-six feet from our eyes! This could not, of course, be seen without the use of a telescope
or opera-glasses. It serves to give some impression of star distances when we think that the
millions and millions of miles lying between those stars have shrunk to that hair's-breadth
seen from our point of view.

Twin stars circle together round a common centre of gravity, and are bound by the laws of gravitation
just as the planets are. Our sun is a solitary star, with no companion, and therefore such
a state of things seems to us to be incredible. Fancy two gigantic suns, one topaz-yellow and
the other azure-blue, circling around in endless movement! Where in such a system would there
be room for the planets? How could planets exist under the pull of two suns in opposite directions?
Still more wonders are unfolded as the inquiry proceeds. Certain irregularities in the motions
of some of these twin systems led astronomers to infer that they were acted upon by another
body, though this other body was not discernible. In fact, though they could not see it, they
knew it must be there, just as Adams and Leverrier knew of the existence of Neptune, before
ever they had seen him, by the irregularities in the movements of Uranus. As the results showed,
it was there, and was comparable in size to the twin suns it influenced, and yet they could
not see it. So they concluded this third body must be dark, not light-giving like its companions.
We are thus led to the strange conclusion that some of these systems are very complicated,
and are formed not only of shining suns, but of huge dark bodies which cannot be called suns.
What are they, then? Can they be immense planets? Is it possible that life may there exist?
No fairy tale could stir the imagination so powerfully as the thought of such systems including
a planetary body as large or larger than its sun or suns. If indeed life exists there, what
a varied scene must be presented day by day! At one time both suns mingling their flashing
rays may be together in the sky; at another time only one appears, a yellow or blue sun, as
the case may be. The surface of such planets must undergo weird transformations, the foliage
showing one day green, the next yellow, and the next blue; shadows of azure and orange will
alternate! But fascinating as such thoughts are, we can get no further along that path.

To turn from fancy to facts, we find that telescope and spectroscope have supplied us with
quite enough matter for wonder without calling upon imagination. We have discovered that many
of the stars which seem to shine with a pure single light are double, and many more consist
not only of two stars, but of several, some of which may be dark bodies. The Pole Star was
long known to be double, and is now discovered to have a third member in its system. These
multiple systems vary from one another in almost every case. Some are made up of a mighty star
and a comparatively small one; others are composed of stars equal in light-giving power--twin
suns. Some progress swiftly round their orbits, some go slowly; indeed, so slowly that during
the century they have been under observation only the very faintest sign of movement has been
detected; and in other systems, which we are bound to suppose double, the stars are so slow
in their movements that no progress seems to have been made at all.

The star we know as the nearest to us in the heavens, Alpha Centauri, is composed of two very
bright partners, which take about eighty-seven years to traverse their orbit. They sometimes
come as near to each other as Saturn is to the sun. In the case of Sirius astronomers found
out that he had a companion by reason of his irregularities of movement before they discovered
that companion, which is apparently a very small star, only to be discerned with good telescopes.
But here, again, it would be unwise to judge only by what we see. Though the star appears small,
we know by the influence it exercises on Sirius that it is very nearly the same size as he
is. Thus we judge that it is poor in light-giving property; in fact, its shining power is much
less than that of its companion, though its size is so nearly equal. This is not wonderful,
for Sirius's marvellous light-giving power is one of the wonders of the universe; he shines
as brilliantly as twenty-nine or thirty of our suns!

In some cases the dark body which we cannot see may even be larger than the shining one, through
which alone we can know anything of it. Here we have a new idea, a hint that in some of these
systems there may be a mighty earth with a smaller sun going round it, as men imagined our
sun went around the earth before the real truth was found out.

So we see that, when we speak of the stars as suns comparable with our sun, we cannot think
of them all as being exactly on the same model. There are endless varieties in the systems;
there are solitary suns like ours which may have a number of small planets going round them,
as in the solar system; but there are also double suns going round each other, suns with mighty
dark bodies revolving round them which may be planets, and huge dark bodies with small suns
too. Every increase of knowledge opens up new wonders, and the world in which we live is but
one kind of world amid an infinite number.

In this chapter we have learnt an altogether new fact--the fact that the hosts of heaven comprise
not only those shining stars we are accustomed to see, but also dark bodies equally massive,
and probably equally numerous, which we cannot see. In fact, the regions of space may be strewn
with such dark bodies, and we could have no possible means of discovering them unless they
were near enough to some shining body to exert an influence upon it. It is not with his eyes
alone, or with his senses, man knows of the existence of these great worlds, but often solely
by the use of the powers of his mind.

CHAPTER XV

TEMPORARY AND VARIABLE STARS

It is a clear night, nearly all the world is asleep, when an astronomer crosses his lawn on
his way to his observatory to spend the dark hours in making investigations into profound space.
His brilliant mind, following the rays of light which shoot from the furthest star, will traverse
immeasurable distances, while the body is forgotten. 

So after this learned man traded by the existence of ghosts = = so thoroughly, so I take the
occasion, a few comments about the given = witchcraft of the Dead = below the Title = = vampirism
to hang, because this is the first matter is quite similar.

= These remarks about the witchcraft of the Dead = default, Latin Magia Posthuma, was in 1755.
in the month of March in the French language from one of the most famous men, Europe can show,
from Mr. Baron Gerhard van Swieten, first your personal physician Imperial. Majesties, and then
Hofbibliothecarius, the merits of his ever-growing have raised, however, to greater title, reputation
and fame; verfasset to Wienn, and been printed [a]. It is soon after the Hornung 1756th by
an equally thorough spring into German been transplanted.

  
  
  [A] in 1755. 30 Jenner ran in Wienn with astonishment of the People
  the message of a new and strange process, which one in a village of
  Moravia at that area where there with Hungary and Gränzet Silesia,
  has again made the dead, and the Completion of the trial against the
  same pronouncement was some of the less enlightened, more
  dangerous priests approved of. Since this newspaper of your Imperial.
  royal. Apostolic Majesty, the most conservative Monarchinn came to
  ears was moved by their mild temper so much that the Lord Wabst, and
  after that first body of imperial doctors. royal. Armies, and the
  Mr. Gaffer E'en then Professorn of anatomy, zween versed Nature Churn,
  has been sent without staying there for the course, and to obtain
  the circumstances of the incident. After frequent precise Try to
  have to mature and sharp teaching exam this zween previously thought of
  men by their erudition finally realized that all the fuss about nothing
  other than a vain Fear of a superstitious Leichtglaubigkeit, from a dark
  and moving imagination, simplicity and ignorance among the people. Man
  then the evidence has seen the tentative nature zween teachers; one has
  the ludicrous lawsuit against the barbaric but poor dead searched.
  And Mr. Baron van Swieten, one of the most learned men of Wienn, the
  wisest of his own works by other already so famous that his services beyond
  all praise would have, your Imperial. royal. Majesty about this
  business its advice given by current observations = =, which he has
  abgefasset French, but which we here in German provide under the title
  = vampirism =. The illustrious and equitable Mind the glorwürdigen
  Monarchinn that the good in all cases keep watch of their subjects
  showed about the procedure in unbehutsame this Proceßsache the highest
  favor. Just as you to like eradicate outdated superstition, violence
  and agile decisions must do, so gave the same maximum suddenly serious
  Command, you should sharpen fixed by the Imperial rescripts all. royal.
   Also on a plate these rays are cumulative--that is to say, if a very
faint star shines continuously on a plate, the longer the plate is exposed, within certain
limits, the clearer will the image of that star become, for the light rays fall one on the
top of the other, and tend to enforce each other, and so emphasize the impression, whereas
with our eyes it is not the same thing at all, for if we do not see an object clearly because
it is too faint, we do not see it any better, however much we may stare at the place where
it ought to be. This is because each light ray that reaches our eye makes its own impression,
and passes on; they do not become heaped on each other, as they do on a photographic plate.

One variable star in Perseus, discovered in 1901, rose to such brilliancy that for one night
it was queen of the Northern Hemisphere, outshining all the other first-class stars.

It rose into prominence with wonderful quickness, and sank equally fast. At its height it outshone
our sun eight thousand times! This star was so far from us that it was reckoned its light must
take about three hundred years to reach us, consequently the great conflagration, or whatever
caused the outburst, must have taken place in the reign of James I., though, as it was only
seen here in 1901, it was called the new star of the new century.

When these new stars die down they sometimes continue to shine faintly for a long time, so
that they are visible with a telescope, but in other cases they may die out altogether. We
know very little about them, and have but small opportunity for observing them, and so it is
not safe to hazard any theories to account for their peculiarities. At first men supposed that
the great flame was made by a violent collision between two bodies coming together with great
velocity so that both flared up, but this speculation has been shown by the spectroscope to
be improbable, and now it is supposed by some people that two stars journeying through space
may pass through a nebulous region, and thus may flare up, and such a theory is backed up by
the fact that a very great number of such stars do seem to be mixed up in some strange way
with a nebulous haze.

All these new stars that we have been discussing so far have only blazed up once and then died
down, but there is another class of stars quite as peculiar, and even more difficult to explain,
and these are called variable stars. They get brighter and brighter up to a certain point,
and then die down, only to become bright once more, and these changes occur with the utmost
regularity, so that they are known and can be predicted beforehand. This is even more unaccountable
than a sudden and unrepeated outburst, for one can understand a great flare-up, but that a
star should flare and die down with regularity is almost beyond comprehension. Clearly we must
look further than before for an explanation. Let us first examine the facts we know. Variable
stars differ greatly from each other. Some are generally of a low magnitude, and only become
bright for a short time, while others are bright most of the time and die down only for a short
time. Others become very bright, then sink a little bit, but not so low as at first; then they
become bright again, and, lastly, go right down to the lowest point, and they keep on always
through this regular cycle of changes. He peered often
through the hidden hole in the door when the boy had only imagine, but it was always the same
sad Ernst in the flaccid and sometimes uneasy, sometimes by as Sight of fear of an invisible
entity distorted and disrupted trains. It may seem impossible
that changes covering so long as six hundred days could be known and followed, but there is
nothing that the patience of astronomers will not compass.

One very well-known variable star you can see for yourselves, and as an ounce of observation
is worth a pound of hearsay, you might take a little trouble to find it. Go out on any clear
starlight night and look. Not very far from Cassiopeia (W.), to the left as you face it, are
three bright stars running down in a great curve. These are in the constellation called Perseus,
and a little to the right of the middle and lowest one is the only variable star we can see
in the sky without a telescope.

This is Algol. Thank God, "he said, folding her hands." Yes, yes, Lisei small
and little Paul, who played together now - The little Paul! Silk Your little Paul? Oh, i think
you's have, the generous G'sichtl of the fresh Bub'n, that looks out because no! "
 How can we explain this? You may possibly be able to suggest a reason. What
do you say to a dark body revolving round Algol, or, rather, revolving with him round a common
centre of gravity? If such a thing were indeed true, and if such a body happened to pass between
us and Algol at each revolution, the light of Algol would be cut off or eclipsed in proportion
to the size of such a body. If the dark body were the full size of Algol and passed right between
him and us, it would cut off all the light, but if it were not quite the same size, a little
would still be seen. And this is really the explanation of the strange changes in the brightness
of Algol, for such a dark body as we are imagining does in reality exist. It is a large dark
body, very nearly as large as Algol himself, and if, as we may conjecture, it is a mighty planet,
we have the extraordinary example of a planet and its sun being nearly the same size. We have
seen that the eclipse happens every three days, and this means, of course, that the planetary
body must go round its sun in that time, so as to return again to its position between us and
him, but the thing is difficult to believe. Why, the nearest of all our planets to the sun,
the wee Mercury, takes eighty-seven days to complete its orbit, and here is a mighty body hastening
round its sun in three! To do this in the time the large dark planet must be very near to Algol;
indeed, astronomers have calculated that the surfaces of the two bodies are not more than about
two million miles apart, and this is a trifle when we consider that we ourselves are more than
forty-six times as far as that from the sun. At this distance Algol, as observed from the planet,
will fill half the sky, and the heat he gives out must be something stupendous. 

When I was just about to resign from the window, the woman came up the road. Before the door
of the jail, she stopped and put one foot tentatively on the threshold stone staircase leading, but
then turned her head back, and I saw a young face, whose dark eyes with the most perplexed expression
abandonment over roamed the empty streets; they seemed not to have the courage to once again confront
the threat of civil servants own. Slowly and repeatedly looking back to the closed door, she got
her way continue; you could see clearly that she did not know even where to go. As it now
but at the corner of Caught in the Institute hinauffuehrende narrow street after the church
was turning, I involuntarily pulled Tuerhaken my hat off to pursue her.

"Yes, yes, Paulsen, that's the right thing!" said the good champion, "is only, I will, meanwhile,
put the coffee hot again! "

It was bitterly cold when I left the house, everything seemed deserted, and from the mountain,
the end of the road above the town, looked almost threatening the black pine forest down; before
the windows of most houses sat the white Eisgardinen, not because of any had, as my teacher,
justice of five fathoms of wood on his house .-- I walked through the narrow street to the church
square, and there before the big wooden crucifixes on the frozen earth was the young woman, head
bowed, hands folded in his lap. I approached in silence, but as she now looked up to the bloody face
of the Crucified, I said: "Forgive me if I interrupt your prayer, but you are probably a stranger
in this City?

"

She nodded, changed without their service.

"I want to help you!"

I began again, "tell me, wherever you want!"

"I know not where everything," she said flatly and had the head again drop to her chest.

"But in an hour it is night, in which dead weather You can no longer on the remain open road!
"

"The help is liebi God," I heard them say softly.

"Yes, yes," I cried, "and I almost think he even sent me to you!"

It was stronger than the sound of my voice, she had awakened, for
she got up and went hesitantly toward me, with vorgestrecktem neck
she approached her face more and more to mine, their eyes and pressed
upon me as if she wanted me to grasp.

"Paul!" she cried suddenly, like a cry of joy and the words flew from her breast - "Yes Tues Paul
sends me the Good Lord! "

Where I had my eyes! Since I had it so again, my Kindsgespiel, the little puppet-Lisei! Of course,
a nice slim virgin, it had become, and the usually smiling face Children
was now, after the first joy darueberhin jet flown, the expression
of deep sorrow.

"How do you get so lonely here, Lisei?" I asked. "What happened? Where is your father?"
"In prison, Paul."

"Your father, the good man - but come with me,
I stand here with a good woman in labor; she knows you, I have often
told her of you. "

And hand in hand, as once as children, we went
to the house of my good master, the We have looked forward from the
window. "The Lisei it is!" I cried when we entered the room, "Just
think, Mistress, the Lisei!"

The good woman put her hands together
over her chest. "Holy Mother of God, pray for us! the Lisei - so shall
have been looking's - But, "she continued," because you feel like
with together since the old sinner "- and she pointed with an outstretched
finger to the prison home Over There - "the Paulsen I did say that
you people are honest child!" Therefore when we look at that tiny sparkling
group we must in imagination picture it as a vast cluster of mighty stars, all controlled and
swayed by some dominant impulse, though separated by spaces enough to make the brain reel in
thinking of them. If these suns possess also attendant planets, what a galaxy of worlds, what
a universe within a universe is here!

Other star clusters there are, not so conspicuous as the Pleiades, and most of these can only
be seen through a telescope, so we may be thankful that we have one example so splendid within
our own vision. There are some clusters so far and faintly shining that they were at first
thought to be nebulæ, and not stars at all; but the telescope gradually revealed the fact that
many of these are made up of stars, and so people began to think that all faint shining patches
of nebulous light were really star clusters, which would be resolved into stars if only we
had better telescopes. Since the invention of the spectroscope, however, fresh light has been
thrown on the matter, for the spectrum which is shown by some of the nebulous patches is not
the same as that shown by stars, and we know that many of these strange appearances are not
made up of infinitely distant stars.

We are talking here quite freely about nebulæ because we have met one long ago when we discussed
the gradual evolution of our own system, and we know quite well that a nebula is composed of
luminous faintly-glowing gas of extreme fineness and thinness. We see in the sky at the present
time what we may take to be object-lessons in our own history, for we see nebulæ of all sorts
and sizes, and in some stars are mixed up, and in others stars are but dimly seen, so that
it does not require a great stretch of the imagination to picture these stars as being born,
emerging from the swaddling bands of filmy webs that have enwrapped them; and other nebulæ
seem to be gas only, thin and glowing, with no stars at all to be found in it. We still know
very little about these mysterious appearances, but the work of classifying and resolving them
is going on apace. Nebulæ are divided into several classes, but the easiest distinction to
remember is that between white nebulæ and green nebulæ. This is not to say that we can see
some coloured green, but that green appears in the spectrum of some of the nebulæ, while the
spectrum of a white nebula is more like that of a star.

It is fortunate for us that in the sky we can see without a telescope one instance of each
of the several objects of interest that we have referred to.

We have been able to see one very vivid example of a variable star; we have seen one very beautiful
example of a star cluster; and it remains to look for one very good example of a white nebula.

Just as in finding Algol you were doing a little bit of practical work, proving something of
which you had read, so by seeing this nebula you will remember more about nebulæ in general
than by reading many chapters on the subject. This particular nebula is in Andromeda, and is
not far from Algol; and it is not difficult to find. It is the only one that can be well seen
without a telescope, and was known to the ancients; it is believed to have been mentioned in
a book of the tenth century!

If you take an imaginary line down from the two left-hand stars of Cassiopeia, and follow it
carefully, you will come before long to a rather faint star, and close to it is the nebula.

When you catch sight of it you will, perhaps, at first be disappointed, for all you will see
is a soft blur of white, as if someone had laid a dab of luminous paint on the sky with a finger;
but as you gaze at it night after night and realize its unchangeableness, realize also that
it is a mass of glowing gas, an island in space, infinitely distant, unsupported and inexplicable,
something of the wonder of it will creep over you.

Thousands of telescopic nebulæ are now known, and have been examined, and they are of all shapes.
Roughly, they have been divided up into several classes--those that seem to us to be round
and those that are long ovals, like this one in Andromeda; but these may, of course, be only
round ones seen edgewise by us; others are very irregular, and spread over an enormous part
of the sky. The most remarkable of these is that in Orion, and if you look very hard at the
middle star in the sword-hilt of Orion, you may be able to make out a faint mistiness. This,
when seen through a telescope, becomes a wonderful and far-spreading nebula, with brighter
and darker parts like gulfs in it, and dark channels. It has been sometimes called the Fish-mouth
Nebula, from a fanciful idea as to its shape. Indeed, so extraordinarily varied are these curious
structures, that they have been compared with numbers of different objects. We have some like
brushes, others resembling fans, rings, spindles, keyholes; others like animals--a fish, a
crab, an owl, and so on; but these suggestions are imaginative, and have nothing to do with
the real problem. In The System of the Stars Miss Clerke says: 'In regarding these singular
structures we seem to see surges and spray-flakes of a nebulous ocean, bewitched into sudden
immobility; or a rack of tempest-driven clouds hanging in the sky, momentarily awaiting the
transforming violence of a fresh onset. Sometimes continents of pale light are separated by
narrow straits of comparative darkness; elsewhere obscure spaces are hemmed in by luminous
inlets and channels.'

One curious point about the Orion Nebula is that the star which seems to be in the midst of
it resolves itself under the telescope into not one but six, of various sizes. I understand Tues nite.

"

But her hand trembled violently in mine, and I only asked: "Oh, Lisei me, understand"

She was silent a moment. "Paul," she said then, "i can go from nit mei'm Vaterl."

"The must indeed with us, Lisei!

In the back house, the two little rooms, which are now empty because
he can live and economies, and the old Henry has his little room close
by, "Lisei. nodded.

"But Paul, we end up moving folks. What to say they are with you at home?"

"They will talk conversant, Lisei!"

"And you're nit fear from it?"

I
just laughed it.

"Well," said Lisei, and like a bell struck sound
in her voice, "if you have them - i 've already Kuraschi! "

"But
you do's because too much?" When we consider that these
strange bodies fill many, many times the area of our whole solar system to the outermost bounds
of Neptune's orbit, it is difficult to imagine what force it is that acts on them to revive
or quench their light. That that light is not the direct result of heat has long been known;
it is probably some form of electric excitement causing luminosity, very much as it is caused
in the comets. Indeed, many people have been tempted to think of the nebulæ as the comets of
the universe, and in some points there are, no doubt, strong resemblances between the two.
Both shine in the same way, both are so faint and thin that stars can be seen through them;
but the spectroscope shows us that to carry the idea too far would be wrong, as there are many
differences in constitution.

We have seen that there are dark stars as well as light stars; if so, may there not be dark
nebulæ as well as light ones? It may very well be so. We have seen that there are reasons for
supposing our own system to have been at first a cool dark nebula rotating slowly. The heavens
may be full of such bodies, but we could not discern them. Their thinness would prevent their
hiding any stars that happened to be behind them. But any of you succeed the task, so I chase you all to hell! "

There was a general shaking of heads and the police went home very sad, for it seemed impossible
to remove the bag, because the emperor had placed a guard of four men, had to guard the bag day
and night.

For negligence was the guard with decapitation threatened.
Thus came the third day approached, but the bag was still hanging
untouched on the ceiling and the police expected their release.
This idea is now quite discarded; whatever may cause them, it is not that. One of the most
startling of these rifts is that called the Coal-Sack, in the Southern Hemisphere, and it occurs
in a part of the sky otherwise so bright that it is the more noticeable. No possible explanation
has yet been suggested to account for it.

Thus it may be seen that, though much has been discovered, much remains to be discovered. By
the patient work of generations of astronomers we have gained a clear idea of our own position
in the universe. Here are we on a small globe, swinging round a far mightier and a self-luminous
globe, in company with seven other planets, many of which, including ourselves, are attended
by satellites or moons. Between the orbits of these planets is a ring or zone of tiny bodies,
also going round the sun. Into this system flash every now and then strange luminous bodies--some
coming but once, never to return; others returning again and again. But - no resting on their
Suspected, rightly, the inspector they had hunted as an intrusive of the door, the to a shelter
in his house have not the slightest claim.

Lisei wanted but still do not understand, they said it was even harder than any punishment, the
later, but certainly the real rogues would still overtake, but she adds the same added that she
would wish him such a hard punishment nit, if only the good of their
innocence Vaterl the day come, oh, who'll survive's certainly nit!

THE END

BILLING AND SONS, LTD., PRINTERS, GUILDFORD

