We approached Eastport with a great deal of curiosity and considerable respect. It had been
one of the cities of the imagination. Lying in the far east of our great territory, a military
and even a sort of naval station, a conspicuous name on the map, prominent in boundary disputes
and in war operations, frequent in telegraphic dispatches,--we had imagined it a solid city,
with some Oriental, if decayed, peculiarity, a port of trade and commerce. The tourist informed
me that Eastport looked very well at a distance, with the sun shining on its white houses.
When we landed at its wooden dock we saw that it consisted of a few piles of lumber, a sprinkling
of small cheap houses along a sidehill, a big hotel with a flag-staff, and a very peaceful
looking arsenal. It is doubtless a very enterprising and deserving city, but its aspect that
morning was that of cheapness, newness, and stagnation, with no compensating picturesqueness.
White paint always looks chilly under a gray sky and on naked hills. Even in hot August the
place seemed bleak. The tourist, who went ashore with a view to breakfast, said that it would
be a good place to stay in and go a-fishing and picnicking on Campobello Island. It has another
advantage for the wicked over other Maine towns. Owing to the contiguity of British territory,
the Maine Law is constantly evaded, in spirit. The thirsty citizen or sailor has only to step
into a boat and give it a shove or two across the narrow stream that separates the United States
from Deer Island and land, when he can ruin his breath, and return before he is missed.

This might be a cause of war with, England, but it is not the most serious grievance here.
The possession by the British of the island of Campobello is an insufferable menace and impertinence.
I write with the full knowledge of what war is. We ought to instantly dislodge the British
from Campobello. It entirely shuts up and commands our harbor, one of our chief Eastern harbors
and war stations, where we keep a flag and cannon and some soldiers, and where the customs
officers look out for smuggling. There is no way to get into our own harbor, except in favorable
conditions of the tide, without begging the courtesy of a passage through British waters. Why
is England permitted to stretch along down our coast in this straggling and inquisitive manner?
She might almost as well own Long Island. It was impossible to prevent our cheeks mantling
with shame as we thought of this, and saw ourselves, free American citizens, land-locked by
alien soil in our own harbor.

We ought to have war, if war is necessary to possess Campobello and Deer Islands; or else we
ought to give the British Eastport. I am not sure but the latter would be the better course.

With this war spirit in our hearts, we sailed away into the British waters of the Bay of Fundy,
but keeping all the morning so close to the New Brunswick shore that we could see there was
nothing on it; that is, nothing that would make one wish to land. And yet the best part of
going to sea is keeping close to the shore, however tame it may be, if the weather is pleasant.
A pretty bay now and then, a rocky cove with scant foliage, a lighthouse, a rude cabin, a level
land, monotonous and without noble forests,--this was New Brunswick as we coasted along it
under the most favorable circumstances. But we were advancing into the Bay of Fundy; and my
comrade, who had been brought up on its high tides in the district school, was on the lookout
for this phenomenon. The very name of Fundy is stimulating to the imagination, amid the geographical
wastes of youth, and the young fancy reaches out to its tides with an enthusiasm that is given
only to Fingal's Cave and other pictorial wonders of the text-book. I am sure the district
schools would become what they are not now, if the geographers would make the other parts of
the globe as attractive as the sonorous Bay of Fundy. The recitation about that is always an
easy one; there is a lusty pleasure in the mere shouting out of the name, as if the speaking
it were an innocent sort of swearing. From the Bay of Fundy the rivers run uphill half the
time, and the tides are from forty to ninety feet high. For myself, I confess that, in my imagination,
I used to see the tides of this bay go stalking into the land like gigantic waterspouts; or,
when I was better instructed, I could see them advancing on the coast like a solid wall of
masonry eighty feet high. "Where," we said, as we came easily, and neither uphill nor downhill,
into the pleasant harbor of St. John,---"where are the tides of our youth?"

They were probably out, for when we came to the land we walked out upon the foot of a sloping
platform that ran into the water by the side of the piles of the dock, which stood up naked
and blackened high in the air. It is not the purpose of this paper to describe St. John, nor
to dwell upon its picturesque situation. As one approaches it from the harbor it gives a promise
which its rather shabby streets, decaying houses, and steep plank sidewalks do not keep. A
city set on a hill, with flags flying from a roof here and there, and a few shining spires
and walls glistening in the sun, always looks well at a distance. St. John is extravagant in
the matter of flagstaffs; almost every well-to-do citizen seems to have one on his premises,
as a sort of vent for his loyalty, I presume. It is a good fashion, at any rate, and its more
general adoption by us would add to the gayety of our cities when we celebrate the birthday
of the President. St. John is built on a steep sidehill, from which it would be in danger of
sliding off, if its houses were not mortised into the solid rock. This makes the house-foundations
secure, but the labor of blasting out streets is considerable. We note these things complacently
as we toil in the sun up the hill to the Victoria Hotel, which stands well up on the backbone
of the ridge, and from the upper windows of which we have a fine view of the harbor, and of
the hill opposite, above Carleton, where there is the brokenly truncated ruin of a round stone
tower. This tower was one of the first things that caught our eyes as we entered the harbor.
It gave an antique picturesqueness to the landscape which it entirely wanted without this.
Round stone towers are not so common in this world that we can afford to be indifferent to
them. This is called a Martello tower, but I could not learn who built it. I could not understand
the indifference, almost amounting to contempt, of the citizens of St. John in regard to this
their only piece of curious antiquity. "It is nothing but the ruins of an old fort," they said;
"you can see it as well from here as by going there." It was, however, the one thing at St.
John I was determined to see. But we never got any nearer to it than the ferry-landing. Want
of time and the vis inertia of the place were against us. And now, as I think of that tower
and its perhaps mysterious origin, I have a longing for it that the possession of nothing else
in the Provinces could satisfy.

