These hosts of men whom I saw thus occupied since history began were authors; these vessels
were books; these heaps of refuse in the bays were great libraries. The allegory admits of
any amount of ingenious parallelism. It is nevertheless misleading; it is the illusion of an
idle fancy. I have introduced it because it expresses, with some whimsical exaggeration--not
much more than that of "The Vision of Mirza"--the popular notion about literature and its relation
to human life. In the popular conception, literature is as much a thing apart from life as
these boats on the stream of time were from the existence, the struggle, the decay of the generations
along the shore. I say in the popular conception, for literature is wholly different from this,
not only in its effect upon individual lives, but upon the procession of lives upon this earth;
it is not only an integral part of all of them, but, with its sister arts, it is the one unceasing
continuity in history. Literature and art are not only the records and monuments made by the
successive races of men, not only the local expressions of thought and emotion, but they are,
to change the figure, the streams that flow on, enduring, amid the passing show of men, reviving,
transforming, ennobling the fleeting generations. Without this continuity of thought and emotion,
history would present us only a succession of meaningless experiments. The experiments fail,
the experiments succeed--at any rate, they end--and what remains for transmission, for the
sustenance of succeeding peoples? Nothing but the thought and emotion evolved and expressed.
It is true that every era, each generation, seems to have its peculiar work to do; it is to
subdue the intractable earth, to repel or to civilize the barbarians, to settle society in
order, to build cities, to amass wealth in centres, to make deserts bloom, to construct edifices
such as were never made before, to bring all men within speaking distance of each other--lucky
if they have anything to say when that is accomplished--to extend the information of the few
among the many, or to multiply the means of easy and luxurious living. Age after age the world
labors for these things with the busy absorption of a colony of ants in its castle of sand.
And we must confess that the process, such, for instance, as that now going on here--this onset
of many peoples, which is transforming the continent of America--is a spectacle to excite the
imagination in the highest degree. If there were any poet capable of putting into an epic the
spirit of this achievement, what an epic would be his! Can it be that there is anything of
more consequence in life than the great business in hand, which absorbs the vitality and genius
of this age? Surely, we say, it is better to go by steam than to go afoot, because we reach
our destination sooner--getting there quickly being a supreme object. It is well to force the
soil to yield a hundred-fold, to congregate men in masses so that all their energies shall
be taxed to bring food to themselves, to stimulate industries, drag coal and metal from the
bowels of the earth, cover its surface with rails for swift-running carriages, to build ever
larger palaces, warehouses, ships. This gigantic achievement strikes the imagination.

If the world in which you live happens to be the world of books, if your pursuit is to know
what has been done and said in the world, to the end that your own conception of the value
of life may be enlarged, and that better things may be done and said hereafter, this world
and this pursuit assume supreme importance in your mind. But you can in a moment place yourself
in relations--you have not to go far, perhaps only to speak to your next neighbor--where the
very existence of your world is scarcely recognized. All that has seemed to you of supreme
importance is ignored. You have entered a world that is called practical, where the things
that we have been speaking of are done; you have interest in it and sympathy with it, because
your scheme of life embraces the development of ideas into actions; but these men of realities
have only the smallest conception of the world that seems to you of the highest importance;
and, further, they have no idea that they owe anything to it, that it has ever influenced their
lives or can add anything to them. And it may chance that you have, for the moment, a sense
of insignificance in the small part you are playing in the drama going forward. Go out of your
library, out of the small circle of people who talk of books, who are engaged in research,
whose liveliest interest is in the progress of ideas, in the expression of thought and emotion
that is in literature; go out of this atmosphere into a region where it does not exist, it
may be into a place given up to commerce and exchange, or to manufacturing, or to the development
of certain other industries, such as mining, or the pursuit of office--which is sometimes called
politics. You will speedily be aware how completely apart from human life literature is held
to be, how few people regard it seriously as a necessary element in life, as anything more
than an amusement or a vexation. I have in mind a mountain district, stripped, scarred, and
blackened by the ruthless lumbermen, ravished of its forest wealth; divested of its beauty,
which has recently become the field of vast coal-mining operations. Remote from communication,
it was yesterday an exhausted, wounded, deserted country. Today audacious railways are entering
it, crawling up its mountain slopes, rounding its dizzy precipices, spanning its valleys on
iron cobwebs, piercing its hills with tunnels. Drifts are opened in its coal seams, to which
iron tracks shoot away from the main line; in the woods is seen the gleam of the engineer's
level, is heard the rattle of heavily-laden wagons on the newly-made roads; tents are pitched,
uncouth shanties have sprung up, great stables, boarding-houses, stores, workshops; the miner,
the blacksmith, the mason, the carpenter have arrived; households have been set up in temporary
barracks, children are already there who need a school, women who must have a church and society;
the stagnation has given place to excitement, money has flowed in, and everywhere are the hum
of industry and the swish of the goad of American life. This pair of ducal instances might be added;
but have the will already take. The matter are reached for Girolamo have covered of the kabbalism,
craves there are the explaining, and, of all, towns of town. It clears itself. Again where we have
been seen the daughter cibo they must suffice to husband was the son of Francesco October, and we
have understand a telephone Caterina marry to Sforza-- the Tyranny
of Riario-- and we have put the town have installed in the House of
Imola and Forli.



