As usual, Dr. Lesage was sulky in his manner and very short in his answers. To Terence's demand,
"She seems to be better?" he replied, looking at him in an odd way, "She has a chance of life."

The door shut and Terence walked across to the window. He leant his forehead against the pane.

"Rachel," he repeated to himself. "She has a chance of life. Rachel."

How could they say these things of Rachel? Had any one yesterday seriously believed that Rachel
was dying? They had been engaged for four weeks. A fortnight ago she had been perfectly well.
What could fourteen days have done to bring her from that state to this? To realise what they
meant by saying that she had a chance of life was beyond him, knowing as he did that they were
engaged. He turned, still enveloped in the same dreary mist, and walked towards the door. Suddenly
he saw it all. He saw the room and the garden, and the trees moving in the air, they could
go on without her; she could die. For the first time since she fell ill he remembered exactly
what she looked like and the way in which they cared for each other. The immense happiness
of feeling her close to him mingled with a more intense anxiety than he had felt yet. He could
not let her die; he could not live without her. But after a momentary struggle, the curtain
fell again, and he saw nothing and felt nothing clearly. It was all going on--going on still,
in the same way as before. Save for a physical pain when his heart beat, and the fact that
his fingers were icy cold, he did not realise that he was anxious about anything. Within his
mind he seemed to feel nothing about Rachel or about any one or anything in the world. He went
on giving orders, arranging with Mrs. Chailey, writing out lists, and every now and then he
went upstairs and put something quietly on the table outside Rachel's door. That night Dr.
Lesage seemed to be less sulky than usual. He stayed voluntarily for a few moments, and, addressing
St. John and Terence equally, as if he did not remember which of them was engaged to the young
lady, said, "I consider that her condition to-night is very grave."

Neither of them went to bed or suggested that the other should go to bed. They sat in the drawing-room
playing picquet with the door open. St. John made up a bed upon the sofa, and when it was ready
insisted that Terence should lie upon it. They began to quarrel as to who should lie on the
sofa and who should lie upon a couple of chairs covered with rugs. St. John forced Terence
at last to lie down upon the sofa.

"Don't be a fool, Terence," he said. "You'll only get ill if you don't sleep."

"Old fellow," he began, as Terence still refused, and stopped abruptly, fearing sentimentality;
he found that he was on the verge of tears.

He began to say what he had long been wanting to say, that he was sorry for Terence, that he
cared for him, that he cared for Rachel. Did she know how much he cared for her--had she said
anything, asked perhaps? He was very anxious to say this, but he refrained, thinking that it
was a selfish question after all, and what was the use of bothering Terence to talk about such
things? He was already half asleep. But St. John could not sleep at once. If only, he thought
to himself, as he lay in the darkness, something would happen--if only this strain would come
to an end. He did not mind what happened, so long as the succession of these hard and dreary
days was broken; he did not mind if she died. He felt himself disloyal in not minding it, but
it seemed to him that he had no feelings left.

All night long there was no call or movement, except the opening and shutting of the bedroom
door once. By degrees the light returned into the untidy room. At six the servants began to
move; at seven they crept downstairs into the kitchen; and half an hour later the day began again.

